---
title: "move bootloader to different hard drive... or something"
date: 2008-09-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 3Lph on 2008-09-14
So, here i was with ubuntu set up just how i like it, dual booted with windows, and booting off of the hard drive that windows was on.

Then, the windows drive goes and dies on me. BIOS won't even see it. My ubuntu filesystem was installed on the other hard drive, but i cant boot into it from that one.


Is there a way i can move GRUB or something, so that i can boot up off the hard drive that still works?

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-09-14
(Previewing this before posting I see it's a bit haphazard. Please read it twice if something's unclear. I'm dead-beat.)


You mean, reinstall grub into the bootsector? Sure. There's a proper howto on how to do this somewhere on these forums, but the gist of it:

Boot a live cd/pendrive/equavilent and pop up a terminal.
```
$ sudo grub
> find /boot/grub/stage1
> root *<whatever was listed by the above command, such as (hd0,0)>*
> setup *<whatever was listed by the above command BUT only the first digit, such as (hd0)>*
> quit
```
You may need to modify your **/etc/fstab** file so that it mounts the correct partitions, but if you're running a recent version (Gutsy, Hardy), the entries will have the partition UUIDs as their filesystem location identifiers rather than the */dev/sdxy* device nodes. IF they look like /dev/sd[COLOR="SandyBrown"]x[/COLOR]y, though, you may need to replace the [COLOR="SandyBrown"]x[/COLOR] so that it points to the correct drive.

To explain, your first drive is always **/dev/sda**, and its partitions being /dev/sda_1_, /dev/sda_2_, etc. If your linux drive was the second in order, its partitions would be /dev/sd**b**_1_, /dev/sd**b**_2_, etc. But now with the linux drive foremost in order, it's no longer /dev/sd**b** but rather /dev/sd**a**. However, as hinted towards in the earlier paragraph, the first column in /etc/fstab entries aren't /dev/sd** entries anymore, but rather UUID entries. A filesystem is assigned an UUID upon creation of it, so even if your /dev/sdb suddenly becomes /dev/sda, the UUIDs should remain untouched and everything should work.

LIKEWISE, you should skim over your **/boot/grub/menu.lst** file and see if there are any /dev/sdb* that you need to change to /dev/sda*.

To view your partition tables so you can see what partition has what device node (/dev/* are device nodes), do the following in a terminal.
```
$ sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by 3Lph on 2008-09-14
i already did the first part, but when i try to launch ubuntu from the grub menu i get on this hard drive, it says error 21, the selected place cannot be found, or something like that.  It has always done that unless i booted off of the other hard drive.

i'm running hardy... but my /etc/fstab looks like 

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=ff38febc-2ce7-4d12-891d-eb1bd0d0e61c / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=9b16f9c0-6cd3-4421-be1e-e8746656eca5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/windowsdisk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

i dont know what i need to edit in there, and since i'm running off a live cd, i dont know how to get permissions to save any of these files once i edit them. Normally i would open a terminal and sudo gedit whatever, but i dont know how to get onto the disk...

uh, it also occurs to me that the problem might be that the hard drive used to be hd1,0 when there was another hard drive, and now because that hard drive isn't there, it's 0,0.

which would mean i need to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst where it says 

> title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=ff38febc-2ce7-4d12-891d-eb1bd0d0e61c ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=ff38febc-2ce7-4d12-891d-eb1bd0d0e61c ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, memtest86+
root		(hd1,0)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet


and change the 1,0 's to 0,0's correct?

only, once again, i dont know how to get permission to do that.

I'm sorry if that was hard to follow, but i would really rather not reinstall the whole OS. Thanks for any help you can give

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-09-14
Yes, if your Ubuntu entries in Grub's menu.lst are currently (hd1,0), if you change them to (hd0,0) it should work. But first reboot, choose the Ubuntu entry in Grub's menu, press "e" to edit it, select the line that says "root (hd1,0)", press "e" to edit, change it to "root (hd0,0)", return to save the change, then press "b" to boot. If that works, once you are in Ubuntu, just do:
```
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
And you can make the changes permanent. Let me know how it goes.

---

### Post by 3Lph on 2008-09-14
AWESOME, that got me running again. Thanks to both of you.



'course i still lost all those hard earned games i beat on the windows boot, but theres nothing i can do about that ;_;

---

