---
title: "8.04.1 LTS - Lots of problems"
date: 2008-12-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Exlixe on 2008-12-05
Alright, as mentioned in the title I have Ubuntu 8.04.1 LTS, also known as Hardy Heron. I have a lot of problems and they belong in a bunch of other categories so I decided to put it in general. So here's the information about the problem & my system information.

**_My Problems_**
1.) I'm unable to login to Ubuntu normally, the only way I am able to login is by selecting a Failsafe GNOME session. (If I login normally, it shows a solid tanlike color background then takes me straight back to the login screen with no error.)
2.) Graphical effects do not work and I know they should because I'm able to support WinVista effects, even though I don't run Vista I used the tool for compatibility and it's fully supported.
3.) I am unable to get PengAOL to work, because I run AOL dialup and have no other way to connect to the internet.

**_My System Information_**
My computer is:
Manufactured by the Hewlett-Packard Company
Is a: Compaq Presario
I have a: AMD Athlon 64 Processor 3500+
2.19GHz, 960MB of RAM (I usually say 1GB)
My hard drive is: 200GB
The other operating system I run is: Windows XP Media Center Edition Service Pack 2 Version 2002
Ubuntu is installed: Inside Windows due to the installer not giving me the option to make seperate partitions.
My graphics card is a: ATI Radeon Xpress 200

---

### Post by Exlixe on 2008-12-05
Also, I'm unable to install PengAOL because the install executable doesn't work, the logs don't give any error that I understand.

---

