---
title: "Cannot change permissions on storage partition"
date: 2010-07-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 4manifold on 2010-07-18
I'm running the 64-bit version of Lucid, dual-booting with Windows 7.  I have a storage partition on my hard drive, formatted as ntfs, which contains music, movies, photos, etc.  My firefox profile is also stored on this partition so it can be shared between Ubuntu and Windows.

The storage partition mounts automatically.  However, whenever I try to fun firefox with the profile on the storage partition, it gives me an error "Firefox is already running."  But when I look in the system monitor, it isn't running.

I googled a bit and found that the problem is probably that the lock files are not being deleted, and I think that the cause of this is that the permissions for the storage partition are somehow messed up.

Other symptoms:

[LIST]
[*]When I try to delete a file in the storage partition, it says "Cannot move file to trash, do you want to delete immediately?"
[*]If I try to unmount the partition from within nautilus, it says "Unable to unmount storage.  Error unmounting: umount exited with exit code 1: helper failed with:  umount: only root can unmount /dev/sda4 from /media/storage", and similarly if I try to mount from within nautilus.
[/LIST]
I tried the following:
```
sudo umount /media/storage
sudo chown -R matthew:matthew /media/storage
ls -la /media

```and it showed that the owner and group were both changed to matthew.  But when I remounted the partition, they had both changed back to root, and the problem persisted.  I tried changing the permissions also with the partition mounted, and they didn't change at all.

Contents of fstab are:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=760225af-fa92-4d6d-86f7-94b5238b28d4 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda4 /media/storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```

Would very much appreciate any help you could offer.

---

### Post by Zorgoth on 2010-07-18
Could you not use the option mode=777 or something of that nature?

Also, to make sure you are always the owner, do the following:

1. Rename the script /etc/gdm/PostLogin/Default.sample to /etc/gdm/PostLogin/Default

2. sudo chmod +x /etc/gdm/PostLogin/Default

3. Add the line chown -R matthew:matthew /media/storage to the script.

(this will only work if you use GNOME)

---

### Post by 4manifold on 2010-07-19
Zorgoth, I tried your advice but it didn't solve the problem.  It seems that when the partition is not mounted, I own it, but once it is mounted, it is owned by root.

If I try:
```
sudo umount /media/storage
ls -la /media
```the result is:
```
drwxr-xr-x  7 root    root    4096 2010-07-19 18:49 .
drwxr-xr-x 22 root    root    4096 2010-07-13 23:42 ..
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root    root       6 2010-04-01 00:50 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root    root    4096 2010-04-01 00:50 cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root    root    4096 2010-04-01 00:50 cdrom1
drwx------  1 matthew matthew 4096 2010-07-11 17:15 Elements
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root    root       7 2010-04-01 00:50 floppy -> floppy0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root    root    4096 2010-04-01 00:50 floppy0
drwx------  2 matthew matthew 4096 2010-04-05 09:37 storage

```Then if I try:
```
sudo mount /media/storage
la -la /media
```the only line that is different is the last one, which has changed to:
```
drwxrwxrwx  1 root    root    4096 2010-07-18 15:45 storage
```

---

### Post by Zorgoth on 2010-07-19
Oh yes, if you unmount and remount the partition, you will lose ownership, most certainly.  But that will guarantee that on every login you have ownership.

I actually was giving you a different solution than the optimal one in that case; you could also find your own user and group ids and set the permissions by adding uid=<matthew's user id>,group id=<matthew's group id>, umask=777, 775, or 770;

777 will allow anyone to read and write
775 will allow you to read and write and others to read
770 will allow you to read and write and forbid others access

I'm pretty sure that is how it works.  You might be able to use uid=matthew, or might need to do uid=500 or whatever your user id is (you can find it in System > Administration > Users and Groups).  Back up your fstab first since I'm not sure.  I haven't tested this; I just read man mount; the options in fstab are simply options passed to mount.

You may also need to do something with the "user" option; I don't know; if you do not have permission to mount/unmount the drive without root privileges try that.

---

### Post by 4manifold on 2011-04-30
I fixed it.  The following line in fstab did the trick:

```

```/dev/sda4 /media/storage ntfs-3g uid=1000,gid=1000,umask=000,defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by broomie on 2011-11-30
This worked for me to for a VFAT file systems

/dev/sdc /media/320FAT vfat uid=1000,gid=1000,umask=000,defaults,utf8  0 0

---

