---
title: "Unable to load fb module"
date: 2011-06-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by melangeaddict on 2011-06-10
Hello World,

I have encountered a problem with my Ubuntu 10.10 installation, and maybe you can help me.

This morning I came into my office and turned my computer on, per usual, but found that after about 10 minutes of waiting, I was still only getting the blinking cursor of waiting.

Since Ctr-Alt-Del did nothing, I held the power button down on the computer, and started again.  This time I entered GRUB and chose the recovery mode, hoping for a fix disc option or some such.

However, what I was faced with was an ATA error that pointed to hard drive errors.  (I can't remember what the exact error was now)  So I pulled out my 10.10 install cd and booted into that.

I ran the fsck command until it returned no more errors, and rebooted.  I waited for the login screen to come up, and was dismayed when it did - only command line style.

So I logged in and ran startx hoping to at least get something to show up on my screen, when it failed and gave me these errors:

(EE)Failed to load module "fb" (module does not exist, 0)
(EE)NVIDIA: Failed to load the fb module.
(EE)No devices detected


I was disappointed.

I won't bore you with the tales of my googling exploits and all the other things I've tried so far because the list would get extensive.  So I ask you:  Any ideas?

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-06-10
Could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?

Regards.

---

### Post by melangeaddict on 2011-06-10
Here it is:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.19  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07.nvidia.com)  Mon May 16 23:52:12 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-06-10
Try reinstalling the nvidia driver.

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall nvidia-current
```

Then restart.

---

### Post by melangeaddict on 2011-06-10
WorMzy and papibe,  Thanks for the replies:

I've already tried that several times, but I did it again, on your recommendation.  However, I still boot into the command prompt, and startx gives me the same error.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-06-10
From my Xorg.0.log:
```
...
(II) LoadModule: "fb"
(II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfb.so
(II) Module fb: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
	compiled for 1.7.6, module version = 1.0.0
...
```
Does /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfb.so exist in your system?

If not, my gues is something went wrong with the system. Maybe if you reinstall the nvidia driver by:

Going into text mode by pressing Alt-Crtl-F1.
Stopping gdm:
```
$ sudo service gdm stop
```
Then unistalling the driver:
```
$ sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-*
$ sudo apt-get autoclean
$ sudo apt-get autoremove
```

Reboot, and then try to install the driver again.
Regards.

---

### Post by melangeaddict on 2011-06-10
Thanks for the continuing help.

As a matter of fact, /usr/lib/xorg/modules/libfb.so doesn't exist...there is a libwfb.so but not libfb.so

I ran the scripts you suggested, and a lot of stuff was removed by the autoremove.  When I ran the installation file again I got a few errors about not being able to install in a few directories because they didn't exist.

Upon a reboot I am still where I was before.  Is the libfb.so file automatically generated, or is it something I could pull from another computer?

Thanks again

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-06-10
That file is provided by the xserver-xorg-core package, so you could try reinstalling that package too.

---

