---
title: "Resolution Issues"
date: 2014-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xWEkxhW on 2014-05-23
Hi all

I have an old laptop running Ubuntu Server for the past few years doing various useful tasks such as CUPS and Samba shared printers, RRDTOOL to graph the DSL router, etc. It was first installed with Lucid (10.04) back in 2012. Since then I have progressively done "do-dist-upgrade" throughout the subsequent months and years that followed, upgrading to each subsequent release. To this day it still runs great. I only have one very small question that I've been unable to solve.

When I run commands such as 'w' or 'lastlog', DNS lookup is not performed, the IP address is presented instead of the name.

For example:

```
$ w
 15:46:26 up 30 days, 19:56,  1 user,  load average: 0.27, 0.17, 0.20
USER     TTY      FROM             LOGIN@   IDLE   JCPU   PCPU WHAT
***      pts/0    2a02:***:****::1 14:36    1.00s  0.25s  0.00s w

```

DNS is configured. I can resolve on the command line (nslookup, etc). resolv.conf contains nameserver entries for both IPv4 and IPv6:

```
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.1.2
nameserver 192.168.1.3
nameserver 2a02:****:****::2
search local.******.****
```

(I starred out the delegated IPv6 entires for obvious reasons)

I have a 2nd Ubuntu server that was installed fairly recently. Again, it's another old Laptop. This one was installed with Saucy 13.10 last year and has subsequently also been upgraded to Trusty 14.04. So they're both running the same version of Ubuntu as of now. They also have the same identical resolv.conf settings. The newer server resolves these IP addresses.

Does anyone know how I can diagnose this, any help would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks very much :)

---

