---
title: "9.04 ATI Radeon HD 3500 dual monitor problems"
date: 2009-07-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xxlginger on 2009-07-02
Hey 
Update: I made a mistake when typing my card name its a  ATI Radeon HD 3650
I cant get my ATI card to work with both my screens at the right resolutions and graphics are very slow. I have 2 Samsung Sync Masters one 17 inch which has a max resolution of 1280x1024 and one 24 inch that has a max resolution of 1920x1200. But they are both stuck at 1280x1024. If i change the resolution in my xorg.conf i just get a blank screen on both screens and have to boot into console and use my old conf. Also on my 17 inch monitor when i move a window it leaves a image each time where the window was. Im using the latest driver from ATIs site of today 
> 
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
		Virtual	2560 1024
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	"DontZap"	"False"
EndSection

Thank You

---

### Post by xxlginger on 2009-07-02
Ok so i went back to the open drivers.
Both my screens work now, but of course i cant get compiz to work..
Any one got a idea of how to get compiz and both my screens working?
Thanks

---

### Post by xxlginger on 2009-07-03
Im almost there with the open drivers and compiz on my duel screens.
Here what happens when i do "compiz --replace" now.

> xxlginger@emily:~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Checking screen 1Comparing resolution (3200x1200) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Checking for Software Rasterizer: present. 
Software rasterizer detected, abortingaborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 


As you can see it fails on this line "Software rasterizer detected, abortingaborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity"

Heres my latest xorg.conf

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	3200 1200
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver          "ati"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
        Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"

EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


Any one got any idea on how to fix it?
I will update this tread when i get it working 
Thanks Again

---

### Post by xxlginger on 2009-07-04
Ok  think ive got it.
The problem is that xorg is using virtual monitors. You can see that here "Checking for Software Rasterizer: present.
Software rasterizer detected, abortingaborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity". So so all i have to do is edit my xorg.conf without using Rasterizer i hope.

---

