---
title: "Ubuntu Feisty USB HDD Bug - Please help"
date: 2007-07-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nusigmaforce on 2007-07-08
Hello, Forum please help:
Even though I've Ubuntunized my home desktop since Breezy Badger, I still rely on the forums for hints and tips quite a bit. The Forum is a GREAT resource. I'm now at Feisty level (and can't wait for Gusty) on my desktop and laptop. My work laptop is still Windows XP.:( 

Anyway, around Dapper and Edgy I bought an external USB Maxtor Onetouch II 300GB, and it worked perfectly on Edgy and WinXP. Ever since I went to Feisty I can't see my USB hard drive on my desktop, and what drive me nuts is that I could see it on Edgy without any tweaking whatsoever and in Windows XP too. I've researched the forum quite a bit trying to solve my problem, but I've failed as my problem is very similar but slightly different.

First, from GParted 0.2.5 I see that all the devices are being recognized, but my USB hard drive shows as filesystem unknown and unmounted. At one point I mounted my USB hard drive and it worked until I restarted, but I also noticed that when I connected my flash drive it showed up as /dev/sbd1 and my USB hard drive as /dev/sbc1. If I don't connect my flash drive, then my USB hard drive shows up as /dev/sdb1. This could be why following the previous forum threads did not help me.

So I edited fstab and mtab, but after I connected my flash drive it confused Ubuntu, problably since I was pointing to /dev/sdb1 /media/usb which was my USB hard drive and later became my flash drive. Ever since the "confusion" I deleted the entries in fstab and matb, so I'm back to step 0 again, and here's where I need your help. 
1) What steps should I take to see my USB hard drive on my Desktop just like my flash drive? 
2) And out of curiosity, why Edgy didn't have this problem? Who in Ubuntu could I ask this? Thanks.

Both drives are FAT 16, and here's more information on fdisk, fstab, mtab.

>>>>>>>>>>>>> fsdisk -l <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40016019456 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4865 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        4660    37431418+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2            4661        4865     1646662+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5            4661        4865     1646631   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 32 MB, 32768000 bytes
50 heads, 32 sectors/track, 40 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 1600 * 512 = 819200 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1          40       31984    4  FAT16 <32M

Disk /dev/sdc: 300.0 GB, 300090728448 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 36483 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1               1       36482   293041633+   6  FAT16


>>>>>>>>>>>>> /etc/fstab <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda1
UUID=52722f75-3997-4c33-bed1-b5775eaa5a1b /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=7a1194e6-7a79-4e69-85d4-1460fc060da6 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

#External Drive

# Generated by Automatix
## End of Automatix mounted partitions


>>>>>>>>>>>>> /etc/mtab <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
/dev/sda1 / ext3 rw,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
procbususb /proc/bus/usb usbfs rw 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
nfsd /proc/fs/nfsd nfsd rw 0 0
rpc_pipefs /var/lib/nfs/rpc_pipefs rpc_pipefs rw 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/32MB\040PEN__ vfat rw,nosuid,nodev,shortname=mixed,uid=1000,utf8,umask=077 0 0

---

### Post by fish2ways on 2007-07-08
**This post could be related to an Ubuntu bug filed at**: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/hal/+bug/63090](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/feisty/+source/hal/+bug/63090) [br].[/br] ---------------------------- [br].[/br] [br].[/br]
				Hi
I had problems with my external usb HDD's after installing Feisty. 

The resolution was that I moved the /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/10osvendor/10-storage-policy.fdi file. After i did that everything worked as it should.
If you want to try it open a terminal and type 

sudo mv /usr/share/hal/fdi/policy/10osvendor/10-storage-policy.fdi /home/your own home folder name

After that switch on your usb drive and see if it mounts as it did under Edgy.

You shouldn't need to edit fstab for usb drives etc. Just let Ubuntu mount them as and when they're connected.
Hope this works for you.

---

### Post by nusigmaforce on 2007-07-08
Hello, fish2ways:
I check that folder and the only .fdi storage related files I have are 20-storage-methods.fdi, 15-storage-luks.fdi and debian-storage-policy-ignore-fixed-crypto-drives.fdi. I later check the whole filesystem for 10-storage-policy.fdi, but I didn't find it. 

Nevertheless, I copied 20-storage-methods.fdi to home/myhomefoldername and hot plugged the drive and nothing happened. I also turned my USB drive on while connected and nothing. I'll restart and report my findings.

Also, debian-storage-policy-ignore-fixed-crypto-drives.fdi sounds fishy to me. Here's the code:
<!-- -*- SGML -*- -->
&#8722;
	<deviceinfo version="0.2">
&#8722;
	<device>
&#8722;
	<match key="volume.fsusage" string="crypto">
&#8722;
	<match key="@block.storage_device:storage.hotpluggable" bool="false">
&#8722;
	<match key="@block.storage_device:storage.removable" bool="false">
<merge key="volume.ignore" type="bool">true</merge>
</match>
</match>
</match>
</device>
</deviceinfo>

---

### Post by nusigmaforce on 2007-07-08
Restarting didn't do it. I also moved the USB HDD to another USB port just in case. Still my USB HDD doesn't respond to hot plugging as it used to in Edgy (and still does on WinXP) and as my flash drive does.

Any other ideas are welcome. Thank you!

---

### Post by nusigmaforce on 2007-07-09
I moved around .fdi's and nothing. I also installed Edgy (which works perfectly) into my laptop and copied the 10-storage-policy.fdi file to my Feisty image, and nothing. 

I'm still wondering what the developers broke from Edgy to Feisty.

---

### Post by fredj on 2007-07-09
It may be something to do with permissions. Plug your usb drive in, then open a terminal
window and type 'sudo nautilus' to run the file browser as root. Then see if you can see the 
usb drive.

---

### Post by davisbarrett on 2007-07-11
Fish2Ways (you must tell me what the 2nd way is)...  I have spent three days swearing at the gods of the universe, and a few spare others, attempting to resolve a simple External HDD (Seagate 250G if you're curious) issue.

I am more than willing, at this point, to fly to the UK and kiss you full on the lips - regardless of gender and/or orientation - as you have resolved my issue.  I also posted your answer on a previous thread (about External HDD permissions) fully attributing your now-godlike stature.

Tell me, when I build an altar to you, removing the old dead MicroSHAFT CPUs that I have laying about, what shape would best resemble you for my new statue?   \\:D/  :biggrin:  :KS

---

### Post by nusigmaforce on 2007-07-11
fredj, that did not work.

davisbarrett, I'm so jealous because fish2ways' solution didn't work for me. I didn't even have the 10-storage-policy.fdi file. I had Feisty on my desktop and on my laptop, I had to go back to Edgy on my laptop to see my external USB HDD again. This sucks!

I posted a bug in Gusty Gibbon Tribe 2 image as it has the same problem as Feisty. Nothing else to do but wait for a fix for me.

---

### Post by ravenwere on 2007-07-20
nusigmaforce, did you try editing your fstab file with a UUID number instead of the device location as below eg:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=9d3d6bf0-ef08-4a14-8c14-a4d73c4274e9 / ext3 nouser,defaults,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=92fc12e9-9bc1-4233-9f53-4eb81f553f97 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=3824523B2451FC76 /mnt/usbhdd ntfs-3g user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0

This worked for me though you do have to mount the disk manually using the shell command:
 *sudo mount /dev/sda(relevant number)*

---

### Post by nusigmaforce on 2008-01-08
Gusty and Hardy do not work either.

---

