---
title: "11. 10 Printer replacing words with commas for a document."
date: 2011-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jotaro on 2011-10-19
Ok, after upgrading Ubuntu to 10.11, I tried printing a paper that I wrote in LibreWriter in the previous Ubuntu version. It printed, however some of the letters were replaced with commas, and I had no idea why. So, I tried to print just the first page, and it printed with even MORE words being replaced with commas.
I decided to try and figure out what is the problem, and what isn't.
I tried printing a image that I was looking at with image viewer, and that worked fine.
I tried printing the front page of a different document that I opened in LibreWriter, and that worked fine too.
For some reason, with just this one document, printing it causes everything to get covered in comma's.
I even made a new document and copy and pasted everything from this one into it. When I tried to print the first page, again, covered in commas!
It would be very great if I could get a answer to why this is happening for this one document, and how I can fix it.:(

---

### Post by Jotaro on 2011-10-19
Bump

---

### Post by kamembe on 2011-11-12
*(Disclaimer: Below are the ramblings of an Ubuntu user who knows very little, so these are all guesses, but if they're helpful to you, great!)*

Same problem here. Wondering if it's some kind of fonts issue? It was a problem in Times New Roman (having pasted the content from a webpage) ,but then worked fine when I changed it all to Trebuchet. Have noticed this on a few libreoffice documents, though. Clearly the data in the document is still there, because it shows on the screen.

Interestingly it's always two commas inserted per missing letter:

i.e. 'saw' got changed to 's,,,,', and 'concerning' printed as 'c,,,,cer,,i,,g'

...so I wonder whether it's something to do with some letters taking two bytes of information, and there being no applicable font letter for that double-byte char (hence the double comma being substituted?). I guess, perhaps the Libreoffice board would be a better place to start?

A workaround, if you can't change the font, is to pdf the document, then print using Acrobat PDF Reader, selecting 'Print as Image' in the advanced properties. That allows you to print it, but it's a faff.

Cheers

Rob :)

---

