---
title: ".tex to .ps"
date: 2006-03-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jonas_Henricsson on 2006-03-27
Hello!

I'm new to Ubuntu. I want to convert a .tex-file to a .ps-file. I have downloaded some programs with Synaptic, but am not able to do this. How can I do it?

Thank you for your reply!

/Jonas

---

### Post by Jonas_Henricsson on 2006-03-27
I tried to write:
latex [filename.tex]

I get the chart I want, but with no words in them. I've written words in different pieces of the chart. Why are no words printed in the .dvi-file which is returned?

/Jonas

---

### Post by Jonas_Henricsson on 2006-03-27
This is what I can see in log-file:

Missing character: There is no E in font nullfont!

That's what it says about all the missing characters. How do I solve this? I'm getting desperate. Please help!

/Jonas

---

### Post by adamkane on 2006-03-27
kile is a good, easy-to-use application for editing latex files and creating ps files.

---

### Post by neoflight on 2006-03-27
[QUOTE=Jonas_Henricsson]I tried to write:
latex [filename.tex]

I get the chart I want, but with no words in them. I've written words in different pieces of the chart. Why are no words printed in the .dvi-file which is returned?

/Jonas[/QUOTE]

install gv
```
sudo apt-get install gv
```
and try to view the ps file with gv

hope this helps..

---

### Post by ekarni on 2006-03-27
I *think* the sequence is simply: 
```

latex YourFile 
dvips YourFile

```

latex creates the dvi file, then dvips converts it to a ps.  Note that you may or may not need to include the .tex and .dvi extensions in the filenames - IIRC these programs automatically supply them.

---

### Post by Jonas_Henricsson on 2006-03-28
gv didn't help, but thanks. This is printed when I run Latex on the .tex-file.

"
This is e-TeX, Version 3.14159-2.1 (Web2C 7.4.5)
entering extended mode
(./lablista61.tex
LaTeX2e <2001/06/01>
Babel <v3.7h> and hyphenation patterns for american, french, german, ngerman, b
ahasa, basque, catalan, croatian, czech, danish, dutch, finnish, greek, iceland
ic, irish, italian, latin, magyar, norsk, norsk, portuges, romanian, russian, s
lovak, slovene, spanish, swedish, turkish, ukrainian, nohyphenation, loaded.
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/latex/base/article.cls
Document Class: article 2001/04/21 v1.4e Standard LaTeX document class
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/latex/base/size12.clo))

! LaTeX Error: File `times.sty' not found.

Type X to quit or <RETURN> to proceed,
or enter new name. (Default extension: sty)

Enter file name:
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/generic/babel/babel.sty
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/generic/babel/swedish.ldf
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/generic/babel/babel.def)))
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/latex/base/inputenc.sty
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/latex/base/latin1.def))
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/latex/base/fontenc.sty
(/usr/share/texmf/tex/latex/base/t1enc.def)kpathsea: Running mktextfm ecrm1200
mktextfm: Running mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; nonstopmode; input ecrm1200
This is METAFONT, Version 2.7182 (Web2C 7.4.5)

kpathsea: Running mktexmf ecrm1200
! I can't find file `ecrm1200'.
<*> ...ljfour; mag:=1; nonstopmode; input ecrm1200

Please type another input file name
! Emergency stop.
<*> ...ljfour; mag:=1; nonstopmode; input ecrm1200

Transcript written on mfput.log.
mktextfm: `mf-nowin -progname=mf \mode:=ljfour; mag:=1; nonstopmode; input ecrm1200' failed.
kpathsea: Appending font creation commands to missfont.log.

! Font T1/cmr/m/n/12=ecrm1200 at 12.0pt not loadable: Metric (TFM) file not fou
nd.
<to be read again>
                   relax
l.95 \fontencoding\encodingdefault\selectfont

?
"


It worked when I did this in Windows, but I would like to be able to do it in Ubuntu also. Maybe I need some kind of package?

/Jonas

---

### Post by Jonas_Henricsson on 2006-03-28
[QUOTE=adamkane]kile is a good, easy-to-use application for editing latex files and creating ps files.[/QUOTE]


I downloaded Kile and tested it. Seems like a good program. However, when I tried to view my .tex-file as dvi (build => view => viewDVI), I get an error message:

"File Type Error! Could not load the file (MyFile)"

I press View details:

"No MultiPage supporting mimetype application/x-dvi found."

Any ideas? I've been looking for packages which might fix this, but havn't found any.

/Jonas

---

### Post by hajk on 2006-03-28
Does the original poster have a complete teTeX installed, I wonder?

He needs at least the packages: tetex-base, tetex-bin, and tetex-extra.

BTW, most TeX-users seem to be producing .pdf these days, in one go with pdflatex -- any particular reason why .ps is needed?

---

### Post by Jonas_Henricsson on 2006-03-28
[QUOTE=hajk]Does the original poster have a complete teTeX installed, I wonder?

He needs at least the packages: tetex-base, tetex-bin, and tetex-extra.

BTW, most TeX-users seem to be producing .pdf these days, in one go with pdflatex -- any particular reason why .ps is needed?[/QUOTE]


I have tetex-base and -bin, but not -extra. I tried to install it, but I only get an unspecified error message. What could be the reason to this?

I tried pdflatex, but the resulting document only had strange lines. I didn't write the .tex-file originally. But it worked in Windows, though, so I don't think there is anything wrong with it.

/Jonas

---

### Post by hajk on 2006-03-28
Well, there you go... You should first try and find out why you can't install the tetex-extra package -- are you mixing breezy and dapper sources, perhaps?
What does your /etc/apt/sources.list look like, are they up-to-date?

Second, I take it that you used MikTeX under Windows, you should check which packages are specified in your .tex file (the arguments of \usepackage{...}. It is possible that MikTeX includes other packages than teTeX does, luckily both TeX-distros use the same directory structure... If teTeX is missing a required package (and if it's not in tetex-extra either), then you should try and find it at CTAN (google for it) and download/install it yourself in the /usr/local/share/texmf directory tree, after which you run "sudo texhash" to make sure that teTeX knows about it.

Good hunting!

---

### Post by neoflight on 2006-03-29
[QUOTE=hajk]Well, there you go... You should first try and find out why you can't install the tetex-extra package -- are you mixing breezy and dapper sources, perhaps?
What does your /etc/apt/sources.list look like, are they up-to-date?

Second, I take it that you used MikTeX under Windows, you should check which packages are specified in your .tex file (the arguments of \usepackage{...}. It is possible that MikTeX includes other packages than teTeX does, luckily both TeX-distros use the same directory structure... If teTeX is missing a required package (and if it's not in tetex-extra either), then you should try and find it at CTAN (google for it) and download/install it yourself in the /usr/local/share/texmf directory tree, after which you run "sudo texhash" to make sure that teTeX knows about it.

Good hunting![/QUOTE]


iam using kile with texlive and everything is just fine and good.....in case if you like to know, the link is in my sig

---

### Post by astoria on 2006-04-26
The reasons I am using PS rather than PDF:

* GV is a nice previewer, with features I didn't find in acroread: 1. Watch file. 2. Fast. These features are very important to me because I write papers containing math formulas all the time. I often need to switch between the editor and the previewer.

* I use PSTricks a lot. I know there is a pdftricks package around. It's simply too much hassle.

---

### Post by adamkane on 2006-04-26
pstricks! Finally, I know how my professors got those images into their overhead transparencies. I always thought it was gnuplot.

---

