---
title: "[resolved] Display Resolution (again!)"
date: 2004-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mark on 2004-11-25
I've been trying to configure my system for 1152x864 display resolution since I switched to Ubuntu.  I can get 1024x768, 1280x1024, 1200x800 - but *not* my preferred 1152x864!  I know I'm being kind of obsessive ("...is "anal retentive" hyphenated?") but this really is the resolution that works best for me.

I'm using the on-board display adapter on my Intel D865GLC main board, I have a gigabyte of RAM installed (yielding 96MB for video) and my tube is a MAG Innovision 986FS (19"), which most definitely supports this resolution - the specs are 30-86KHz horizontal, 50-160Hz vertical.  I have run *dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86* 'till I type that command in my sleep, I've edited my *XF86Config-4* to the point where 1152x864 was the **only** resolution listed, I've tried framebuffer/no framebuffer - in short, I'm out of ideas...HELP!!!

Here's my config file, in its entirety: > # XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"speedo"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load	"xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xfree86"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	VideoRam	98304
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"986FS"
	HorizSync	30-86
	VertRefresh	50-160
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"986FS"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1200x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection Let me add that I *know* it's doable - I've had other distros (even Win2K) running at this resolution.

Does anybody have any suggestions???

---

### Post by ken on 2004-11-25
I'm not sure why ubuntu isn't giving you the option via the gui, but if you're willing to mod your config file manually...

I notice that your default colour depth is 24 bit... in the list of resolutions that are available for the 24bit colour detph, move the 1152x864 listing to the front of the list... in other words

```
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1152x864" "1280x1024" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
```

That should make 1152x864 your default resolution while displaying in 24 bit colour.  You'll need to restart X to see if this works...

Good luck!

---

### Post by mark on 2004-11-25
[QUOTE=ken]I'm not sure why ubuntu isn't giving you the option via the gui, but if you're willing to mod your config file manually...

I notice that your default colour depth is 24 bit... in the list of resolutions that are available for the 24bit colour detph, move the 1152x864 listing to the front of the list... in other words

```
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1152x864" "1280x1024" "1200x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
EndSubSection
```

That should make 1152x864 your default resolution while displaying in 24 bit colour.  You'll need to restart X to see if this works...

Good luck![/QUOTE]
Thanks for the tip, but I've tried that...no luck.

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2004-11-25
> 
Section "Device"
Identifier "Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
**[COLOR=RED]Driver "i810"[/COLOR]**
BusID "PCI:0:2:0"
VideoRam 98304
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection


huh? i810? shouldn't that be i865?

What does [COLOR=Red]/var/log/XFree86.0.log[/COLOR] say? (If you post it you might want to enclose it with 'code' and '/code' (just like you use QUOTE and /QUOTE within brackets) so that it is easier for us to scroll through) .


.

---

### Post by mark on 2004-11-26
[QUOTE=wallijonn]huh? i810? shouldn't that be i865?

What does [COLOR=Red]/var/log/XFree86.0.log[/COLOR] say? (If you post it you might want to enclose it with 'code' and '/code' (just like you use QUOTE and /QUOTE within brackets) so that it is easier for us to scroll through) .


.[/QUOTE]
Yeah, I looked for an i865 option when running *dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86* but didn't find it.

I'm attaching the requested log file (at least I hope I am, never done it before).If I try to inline it, the forum software tells me my message is too big or has too many graphics - and I don't know enough about it to recognize the pertinent sections...sorry.

Mark

Okay - I can't seem to attach the file - if you can tell me which sections are needed, I'll inline 'em.

*Thanks!*

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2004-12-05
You have to rename the log file to [COLOR=Green].txt[/COLOR]. before you can attach the file.

When you hit the "Manage Attachments" button on the bottom it says:

> 
Attach Files
Valid file extensions: **bmp bz2 doc gif gpl gz jpe jpeg jpg pdf png psd svg txt zip**


---

### Post by mark on 2004-12-05
[QUOTE=wallijonn]You have to rename the log file to [COLOR=Green].txt[/COLOR]. before you can attach the file.

When you hit the "Manage Attachments" button on the bottom it says:[/QUOTE]
Thought I did that earlier, but I've tried it again here...

---

### Post by mark on 2004-12-05
[QUOTE=wallijonn]You have to rename the log file to [COLOR=Green].txt[/COLOR]. before you can attach the file.

When you hit the "Manage Attachments" button on the bottom it says:[/QUOTE]
Yeah, I did that and it didn't "take".  I just tried it again, same deal - I get the message: ```
 File Too Large. Limit for this filetype is 19.5 KB. Your file is 56.8 KB. 
``` As I said, I'll be glad to paste the relevant sections, but I don't know which ones they are...

---

### Post by fishd on 2004-12-14
Not sure if this is going to be the same thing but when I used a Libretto 100CT with Linux I had to specify a custom resolution of 800x480 to get it working on the laptop display.

To do this involved a *modeline* line like the one below:
```
Modeline "800x480"     40    800  864  928  1088   480  481  484  509 +hsync
```

This describes how to setup the display and monitor for an 800x480 resolution.

Try looking [here](http://www.knowplace.org/timings.html) for more info including suggestions for the resolution you want.

Anyhoo, all of this is at your own risk, I'm a relative Linux n00b but this worked on my Libby...

---

### Post by mark on 2004-12-15
[QUOTE=fishd]Not sure if this is going to be the same thing but when I used a Libretto 100CT with Linux I had to specify a custom resolution of 800x480 to get it working on the laptop display.

To do this involved a *modeline* line like the one below:
```
Modeline "800x480"     40    800  864  928  1088   480  481  484  509 +hsync
```

This describes how to setup the display and monitor for an 800x480 resolution.

Try looking [here](http://www.knowplace.org/timings.html) for more info including suggestions for the resolution you want.

Anyhoo, all of this is at your own risk, I'm a relative Linux n00b but this worked on my Libby...[/QUOTE]
Thanks - I'll take any tips at this point (and will not hold you responsible if my monitor starts to glow red & smoke<g>)...

I'll post back if/when I make any progress - I work for a non-profit organization that (essentially) operates from donations and, as you can imagine, this is our busiest time of year...Merry Christmas to all!

---

### Post by wulf on 2004-12-16
I'm surprised that you're having problems (and sorry to hear it - no smugness here). I've just installed Ubuntu on my machine at work and it was using 1024x768 as the top resolution, not quite making the most of my 17" screen. Like you, I've found 1152x864 to be a great resolution - a little more screen space without making all the text and icons too tiny (I'm working on the screen most of the day so I want to minimise eye strain).

My approach was:

1. Edit /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 so that all colour depths had mode lines reading:

 Modes "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"

(previously I only had the other three resolutions set up)

2. Log out of the system.

3. Restart X using Ctrl-Alt-Backspace

4. Bingo - new resolution in effect.

To be honest, I was pleasantly suprised that it had all been so simple. I wonder if one of your earlier attempts to change the resolution affected what you did later? How "clean" is your installation (have you just got the default set of programs or have you done a lot of other customisation)?

Wulf

---

### Post by mark on 2004-12-17
Wulf - I tried your recommendation with no luck.  And I had thought of the config file being mucked up by previous edits, so I tried it with a "virgin" copy of XF86Config-4, as installed - still no go.  I'm really beginning to think it's an inherent problem with XFree86 and the *i810* driver.  Oh, well...I'll still keep trying.

Thanks for the suggestions, though!

Mark

---

### Post by wulf on 2004-12-18
[QUOTE=mark]Wulf - I tried your recommendation with no luck.  And I had thought of the config file being mucked up by previous edits, so I tried it with a "virgin" copy of XF86Config-4, as installed - still no go.  I'm really beginning to think it's an inherent problem with XFree86 and the *i810* driver.  Oh, well...I'll still keep trying.[/QUOTE]
That's interesting. I'm using something similar on my laptop at home:

```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection
```
although I've kept it at 1024x768 because it's a laptop with an LCD display that I don't think will look good at a higher resolution. I'll try and remember to see what I'm running at work (17" CRT monitor and the machine where I've successfully increased the resolution). If I forget, bump this thread back up sometime on Monday!

Wulf

---

### Post by jahLux on 2004-12-19
While you research this Wulf, I'm having EXACTLY the same problems on a clean install  running the K7 Linux kernel variant on a Hitachi 21" monitor and GeForce MX420 card.
I'm begining to belive the 'problem' is unique to the - K7 kernel or else it would be more widely experienced - don't you think?
Anxiously awaiting your findings .............

---

### Post by fuzzix on 2004-12-19
From my limited experience I reckon the vertical and horizontal refresh rates aren't defined correctly, rather than the modes. I recently picked up a 21" Trinitron at a bargain price (it'd make you sick ;) ) and while I could get the max res it was at a low refresh rate and there were fewer options for lower resolutions.

Checked Google for the correct settings and now have a scandalous number of resolutions available to me. What's the make and model of your monitor?

---

### Post by wulf on 2004-12-20
Mark,

What kernel are you running. It's not the K7 one is it? It would be interesting if there were a pattern and might help towards a fix.

Wulf

---

### Post by wulf on 2004-12-20
The relevant sections of my */etc/X11/XF86Config-4* file at work are:
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 Pro Ultra (TF)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E771p"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Rage 128 Pro Ultra (TF)"
	Monitor		"DELL E771p"
	DefaultDepth	24
        # I've snipped out the other subsections for lower depths although
        # they're still in the file on my machine
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```
Therefore, I can't comment in the i810 chip - that might be the reason you can't change to the preferred resolution although I'll join you in being a bit puzzled if you can get them working in other operating systems.

Did you try fishd's modeline suggestion?

Wulf

---

### Post by jahLux on 2004-12-20
Hello Lads,
With regard to the hackneyed Display Resolution issue - Here's the rub - if you're using anything other than the base=config as provided on the original CD (and subsequent 'pure' updates), ALL bets are OFF!
The presence of nVidia  files in the kernel renders any resolution/frequency changes null and void.
I was able to chose and use any/all resolution/frequency combinations offered by my Hitachi SuperScan Elite monitor - right up until I downloaded and installed the nVidia software components [nVidia Settings, glx etc]
Until it's fixed, NOTHING you do by way of editing X-conf, modifying modelines etc will mean squat, if your're running in an mVidia environment - perhaps our ATI brethren may be more fortunate. Meantime, check-out the newly released Xandros V 3.0......

---

### Post by mark on 2004-12-21
Replies, in not particular order:

Yes, I tried the *modeline* fix (and permutations) suggested by fishd - X refused to start (don't recall the error message just now).

No, I'm not running a K7 kernel - currently, it's the 2.6.8.1-4-686-smp (but I had the same lack of success with the original i386 kernel).

My monitor is a MAG Innovision 986FS (19") and all of the operational specs (frequency, scan rate, etc.) are from MAG.

I'm using the on-board video (Intel D865GLC mainboard, although Intel i810 is as close as I can find to a match in XFree86) - so, nVidia drivers are not the issue.

At this point, I'm seriously considering picking up an add-in AGP card and going that route.  Anyone have suggestions as to what to buy (or, maybe better, what to avoid)?

Mark

---

### Post by jahLux on 2004-12-22
Automagic seems to be the order of the day - I reloaded the 2.6.8.1-4 K7 kernel and whaddya know - all kinds of options ( as previously installed and not available) are now selectable from the Computer> System Configuration> Screen Resolution panel !
WOW..........go figure!

Thanks all for your patience and suggestions.

I now happily reside at 1152X864 @ 75Hz .............sweet!

---

### Post by mark on 2004-12-22
[QUOTE=jahLux]Automagic seems to be the order of the day - I reloaded the 2.6.8.1-4 K7 kernel and whaddya know - all kinds of options ( as previously installed and not available) are now selectable from the Computer> System Configuration> Screen Resolution panel !
WOW..........go figure!

Thanks all for your patience and suggestions.

I now happily reside at 1152X864 @ 75Hz .............sweet![/QUOTE] Great!  Nice to know it is doable...do you have any XF86 config tips or was it just the kernel reinstall?  (I've already done the kernel reinstall/upgrade several times, so I hope you have tips...<g>)

---

### Post by mark on 2004-12-23
Awright, now I'm afraid I'm getting p****d off.

After reviewing all the suggestions, *man* pages, other documentation, etc., I decided to try one more "virgin" config.  I followed the direction from *XF86Config-4* regarding restoring a pristine config file:  ```
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86
``` On rerunning this last command, I paid particular attention to the comments about "...selecting none is the same as selecting all, as XFree86 will try to use the highest supported resolution..." , or words to that effect.  So I purposefully *deselected* every single resolution listed (which includes, I might add, 1152x864).  Restarted everything - and it came up in a "finer" resolution at boot - but with everything much too small - no wonder, it was 1600x1200.

Okay, fine - I brought up *gnome-display-properties* and discovered I could choose from 1600x1200, 1280x1024, 1024x768, etc...but no 1152x864.

Great - I edited *XF86Config-4* and discovered that the "Display" subsections had no modes listed.  Wonderful - I proceeded to add "1152x864" to each, rebooted - and still no good.

At this point, I'm really frustrated.  I think I have more than done due diligence in research & experimentation - but *XFree86 will not give me my preferred resolution, even though the config tool lists it as supported!*

According to the *XFree86.0.log* file: ```
(II) I810(0): 986FS: Using hsync range of 30.00-86.00 kHz
(II) I810(0): 986FS: Using vrefresh range of 50.00-160.00 Hz
(II) I810(0): Not using mode "1152x864" (no mode of this name)
``` ????

Yes, I'm obsessing over this - but, dammit, the hardware supports it, the software *says* it supports it, I can get this configuration in other OSes and distros  - what the *hell* is going on?  I'm convinced that this is the kind of ocurrence that gives Linux in general a bad rep as hard to configure.

No, I'm not giving up on Linux (or Ubuntu) - at worst, I'll live with 1024x768 until Hoary and Xorg - but if there was ever a "cautionary tale" out here for the really smart people (i.e. developers) this is it.  In Linux, I don't necessarily expect "point & click" - but, by Ghu, if your config tool says it's there, it should be there!

====================================================

It's now almost 24 hours since I posted this rant and I'd like to apologize to all & sundry.  I normally don't "lose it" like this, but this has been a very frustrating (though far from critical) situation for me.  What I was trying to get across (badly, I admit) is that *this* is the type of configuration problem that can really put a new user off.

I will try to maintain my composure better in future posts and I hope everyone can forgive me for venting in a moment of extreme frustration.

Mark

---

### Post by jahLux on 2004-12-24
Hi again Mark,
Sorry, I have no "tips" of value as my 'solution' seemed to appear almost serependitiously after the steps taken - as previously documented by me. Since then another K7 kernel upgrade [2.6.8.1-4] has appeared and I have applied it with no diminishment in the functionality of current interest.
Don't give up the ship just yet!

---

### Post by mark on 2005-01-01
I finally broke down and bought a video card...

The Staples near me happened to be open today and they had a PNY Verto AGP display adapter on sale (nVidia FX5500-based, 128MB RAM) for US$99.98 (with a US$20.00 mail-in rebate!) - installed it, followed the Ubuntu Wiki HOWTO to install the nVidia driver, ran *dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86* (for the last time!), rebooted and there it was - my much-sought-after 1152x864!!!

Thanks to everyone that offered tips, hints & consolation during my quest!

---

### Post by wallijonn on 2005-01-04
Congratulations! :D

Is XF86Config-4 still listing the I810?

---

### Post by mark on 2005-01-05
[QUOTE=wallijonn]Congratulations! :D

Is XF86Config-4 still listing the I810?[/QUOTE] Nope - I changed that when I re-ran *dpkg-reconfigure* after installing the Nvidia drivers.

---

