---
title: "2.6.24.3 kernel won't boot"
date: 2008-04-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2008-04-05
Okay I've been banging my head against the wall for long enough with this...

I have a dual core amd64 turion Dell laptop, sata, pci express, ati graphics.  Regularly upgraded and maintained Feisty o/s alongside vista (blergh)

I downloaded a 2.6.24.3 kernel from kernel.org, loaded in my working home brewed kernel config from 2.6.22.6, set the few parameters that were new, built kernel packages with make-kpkg, installed the new kernel with dpkg -i, rebooted the new kernel and got something like (from my memory)
kernel panic: root vfs not syncing: device not found (hd0,0)

The AHCI sata driver is compiled into the kernel, ext3 is compiled in and pc style partition support is compiled in, scsi disk and generic support are compiled in.  

I don't get much help searching for this on the net, just odd problems here and there.

Any help appreciated.  Many thanks in advance
Alexis

---

### Post by Alexis Phoenix on 2008-04-05
Uhh, okay solved my own problem.  Booted in recovery mode (ie not "quiet") to try to get more info.  From that got a list of numbers 0800 to 0807 referring to sda to sda7, so in /boot/grub/menu.lst I changed the line 

kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24.3-pussycat-1.1 boot=UUID=d0ab5710-2496-4e5f-9c0a-153174ad4bf9 ro quiet splash

to 

kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24.3-pussycat-1.1 root=0805 ro quiet splash quiet

and watched, amazed, as it booted perfectly.  Now I just need to re-discover how to make an initrd to get usplash working again...

Can anyone shed any light on this numbers instead of device names business though?  What has been introduced in this kernel that changed that?

Alexis

---

