---
title: "8.04 - root password works in GUI but not terminal..."
date: 2008-07-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stoner.paul2 on 2008-07-15
Ok, so tonight is my first official complete changeover from Windows.  Loving it so far!  Now, I am trying to install the most recent Java install so my fiance can use her Pogo.  Now I go to the terminal, type 'su', press enter, then it asks for the password - I enter the password, says: 

su: Authentication failure

...and goes back to my prompt.

However when I access Synaptic or access any other part of the system that pops up telling me to enter the admin password, it works fine.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-07-15
stoner.paul check you are using the root password as this is the one needed to SU in terminal.

Your synaptic worked  because that only needs your user password.

---

### Post by alfalfa31 on 2008-07-15
su is non functional in Ubuntu by default.

Try sudo <command> 

It will ask you for the password and life should resume as normal after the command runs.

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-07-15
> **stoner.paul2 said:**
> Ok, so tonight is my first official complete changeover from Windows.  Loving it so far!  Now, I am trying to install the most recent Java install so my fiance can use her Pogo.  Now I go to the terminal, type 'su', press enter, then it asks for the password - I enter the password, says: 

su: Authentication failure

...and goes back to my prompt.

However when I access Synaptic or access any other part of the system that pops up telling me to enter the admin password, it works fine.

Any ideas?

What you are accessing by using the su command is the ROOT, and by default, Ubuntu disables it so you have to manually enable that account on System->Administration->Users and Groups. "Unlock"->Choose the Root account->Click on Properties and manually set it's password.

---

### Post by Squid Tamer on 2008-07-15
The root password and YOUR password are different things. You are enter your user password in the gui, but when you go to su you need the root password.

to change the root password type (in the terminal)
```
sudo su
```

and then

```
passwd
```

you can then change it to whatever you want.

---

### Post by stoner.paul2 on 2008-07-15
thank you - sudo su worked, but the other suggestion to go into Users & Groups and completely unlock the root is greyed out and I cannot change that.

---

### Post by ilrudie on 2008-07-16
> **stoner.paul2 said:**
> thank you - sudo su worked, but the other suggestion to go into Users & Groups and completely unlock the root is greyed out and I cannot change that.
There is not a need to enable the root account your Ubuntu box.  The security and support model is based around the root account being locked.  Just use sudo in the terminal and gksudo for gui administration needs.  As you were showed above there are a couple of ways to "become" root without enabeling the account.  Its probably best practice for someone who is not very familiar with Linux/Unix to stay away from becoming root.  You can do unrepairable damage to the operating system as root (and with sudo/gksudo) so be careful and don't run commands that you don't fully understand.

---

