---
title: "Scripts -- how to cd from a list"
date: 2009-07-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AxelMan0 on 2009-07-24
I'm writing a script to convert my entire music folder and all subdirectories using lame. I'm using dir > musicfolders to make a list of all the artist folders I have. I figured since dir outputs backslashes when needed I could put it into a for loop like so: 

for s in [cat ../musicfolders]; do
    if [ -d $s ]; then
        cd $s
# Creates a seperate text file for each artist folder containing the names of the album folders
        dir > ../$s
        cd ..
    fi
done

This is my first script so there may be other errors in there as well but bear with me lol

When I test my for loop in the command line like this: for s in $(cat musicfolders); do echo $s; done
I get the following:

Jackson\
Five
musicfolders
Steve\
Miller\
Band
The\
Temptations
Jamiroquai
Smashing\
Pumpkins
Sublime
Tom\
Petty
Lenny\
Kravitz
Spyro\
Gyra
Taking\
Back\
Sunday
Weezer

Is there a way to get it to ignore the spaces in the folder names and treat them as a single word? The output of cat musicfolders is:

Jackson\ Five    musicfolders        Steve\ Miller\ Band   The\ Temptations
Jamiroquai    Smashing\ Pumpkins  Sublime          Tom\ Petty
Lenny\ Kravitz    Spyro\ Gyra        Taking\ Back\ Sunday  Weezer

---

### Post by jimhenry on 2009-07-24
It looks as though when you catenate a file as the list for a "for VARIABLE in LIST do .... done" structure, it doesn't treat the slashes before spaces and other metacharacters as special.  I'm not sure why.  However, it works fine if instead of going through an intermediate stage where you send the directory listing to a file, then catenate the file, you just use a wildcard in the for expression instead.  I did this on my music directory:

```

jim@dell-desktop:~/Music$ for d in *; do echo $d; done

```And it output a list of the subdirectories, one per line, even the ones with spaces in the names.

I also tried this in an album directory containing oga files created by rhythmbox, all with spaces in their names:

```

for f in *.oga; do convert-oga-to-mp3.sh $f; done 

```and it worked fine.

By the way, from what format to what format are you converting your music directories, and how?  I've found a way to convert oga to mp3 (I have an mp3 player that doesn't want to play oga's), but I'm not satisfied with it; it loses the artist name, song title etc. metadata in the process.

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2009-07-24
Soundconverter, simple gui, multi file/folder/formaat capable. Problem solved.

---

### Post by AxelMan0 on 2009-07-31
I've tried many a graphical program for this but this isn't completely about simply converting my music. I'm trying to learn to write scripts and use the CLI as much as possible so i figured what better opportunity than something practical such as this?

Also I'm converting the files from .flac to .mp3 (VBR)

I'll take a look into the wildcard solution soon it sounds promising right now I'm trying to compile xmms2 so I can use ProjectM with it haha

---

### Post by jimhenry on 2009-08-02
I got this working using Soundconverter, as a previous poster suggested
-- it worked better than lame in preserving metadata and better than
ffmpeg in handling .oga files.  However, I couldn't readily get the
GUI to work -- when I tried to run it on the root of my music
directory tree, it tried to convert everything into mp3, including the
files that were already mp3, and failed immediately saying it couldn't
overwrite the source.  It seemed extremely tedious to go through all
those dirs and manually select the oga's and m4a's in a GUI.  So I
ended up using Soundconverter in command line mode via a shell
script generated by a Perl script working on the input of a find
command, thus:

First, from the root of my music directory, this:

```

find ./ -iname *.oga > oga_list.txt

```Then I ran this Perl script with oga_list.txt as its input and
convert_ogas.sh as its output:

```

#! /usr/bin/perl -w

use strict;

print "#! /bin/bash\n\nset -xv\n\n";

my $dir = "";

while ( <> ) {
    chomp;
    s(^\.)(/home/jim/Music);
    s( )(\\ )g;
    s(')(\\')g;
    s(&)(\\&)g;
    s(!)(\\!)g;
    s(;)(\\;)g;
    s/\(/\\\(/g;
    s/\)/\\\)/g;

    s(/[^/]+$)(/);
    if ( $_ ne $dir ) {
    print qq(pushd $_\n);
    print qq(soundconverter -b -m audio/mpeg -s .mp3 *.oga\n);
    print qq(popd\n\n);

    $dir = $_;
    }
}

```This writes a bash script which runs in debug mode (set -xv),
displaying its commands as they're interpreted and executed.  It
simplifies the list of .oga files in various directories into a list
of directories containing .oga files, and escapes the necessary shell
metacharacters that are part of directory names in my music dir tree.
(Your music files' names might contain other shell metacharacters;
these are the ones I found necesssary to escape.  Using the built-in
Perl quotemeta() function didn't work because it escaped the forward
slashes and dots which really need to be interpreted as metacharacters
by the shell.)  Then the shell script produced will change directory
into each .oga-containing directory in turn and run soundconverter on
all .oga files in that directory.

I ran the resulting convert_ogas.sh with:

```

source ./convert_ogas.sh

```I could have done 

```

chmod +x convert_ogas.sh
./convert_ogas.sh

```But since I was only going to run this script once, that seemed like a
waste of time.

Finally, after doing some tests to make sure a large random sample 
of the .mp3s created had the correct metadata and would play on
my MP3 player, I did this from the base of my music directory tree:

```

find ./ -iname *.oga -delete

```to get rid of the .oga files.

This simplifies my actual procedure -- I actually made an edited copy
of the oga_list.txt directory to include just the first couple of
directories and used it to test the Perl script and its output shell
script before I ran it on the full list of all the remaining
files and directories.

---

