---
title: "911"
date: 2019-01-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gunner220 on 2019-01-15
Just got a call from my local cable company {Comcast} saying my network had been hacked because someone deleted the SSL. They were very pushy about me going to CVS or Walgreens to purchase $300.00 in Google gift cards to purchase a two year certificate that they would install. I would be reimbursed by Comcast on this one occasion. OS was Win 7 Pro. This just felt wrong. How do you check the SSL on Ubuntu or is another process used? I have until tomorrow at 11:00 to call them back. Again fishy. I spoke to about 4 people all with Indian accents. Just strange.

Advice please!!!!!!!!!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2019-01-15
What Operating system are you using now? The person you were talking to was not from comcast they were con artists and I doubt they will install anything and if they do I am sure it will not be to help you but to still your information. I have received calls about ransom ware saying they had control of my windows computer I told them I do not use windows and hung up on them.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2019-01-15
Sounds like a scam/ransom call. Check with customer service and not the number they gave you. I doubt Comcast would have any such procedure. Who profits from the purchase this certificate ?

---

### Post by QIII on 2019-01-15
Sham.

Comcast would email everyone rather than taking the old-school route of phone calls, wouldn't ask you to buy anything from a third party, and would just tell you to log in to your account for information.  

What you were getting there was social engineering.  "Something terrible will happen to you if you don't do what we ask you to."  One of the most effective social engineering tools for many millennia.

---

### Post by him610 on 2019-01-15
++Sounds like a scam/ransom call.

By all means call your ISP, Comcast.
If you have the perpetrator's  number, you can report it to the FCC. Darn! They are probably furloughed right now.

---

