---
title: ".ISO image mounting question/problem ???"
date: 2009-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by i-o on 2009-02-03
Hi,

I'm trying to figure out how this .ISO -file mounting is working in Ubuntu 8.10/GNOME.
I have 2 .ISO -images. First one contains data files and other one is ubuntu 8.10 Alternate install cd.
The mountpoint is created ok with with both images by right mouse click -> Open With -> "Archive Mounter".

When I try to see what's inside the mounted .ISO files, the file containing data files opens OK by right mouse click -> Open or Browse Folder.
But when I try to do the same for .ISO file that's ubuntu installation CD all that happens is that in the taskbar is a task-button that says: "Starting File Browser" and after a while it disappears.

So it appears that .ISO files from bootable CD's behaves differently??? However by using 'file-roller' application there are no problems with the .ISO -file that is causing problems.

An explanation would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by binbash on 2009-02-03
It might be a bug or something else(you should see the contents of the bootable iso).Nothing can be said without seeing the log.But instead of gui use this to mount cd/dvds and browse them :

mkdir /mnt/iso
mkdir /mnt/iso2  (add sudo if you have permission problems)
sudo mount -o loop iso1 /mnt/iso
sudo mount -o loop iso2 /mnt/iso2

cd /mnt/iso 
ls

etc etc

---

### Post by i-o on 2009-02-04
After some more study of the subject I started to wonder if there is any use for mountpoints any more. .ISO files can be browsed like file systems with: right mouse -> Open With "Archive Manager" (e.g. file-roller). Which is in my understanding the reason why mountpoints existed in the first place (at least in GUI environment).

BTW. I tested with another bootable CD .ISO -image to handle the mountpoint and it behaved exactly same way as described in my first post.

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-02-04
Access through an archive manager is very limited.  Mounting an ISO allows you to work with it exactly as if it were a disc in the disc drive.

Have you tried mounting the ISO manually with "sudo mount -o loop /path/to/iso /path/to/mount-point"?

---

