---
title: "10.04 leaf background"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gorlist on 2010-04-22
This isn't a major problem :) but something thats been bugging me. Downloaded and installed beta2 of 10.04 a few weeks ago and changed the backdrop of the desktop to a nice close up of a green leaf.. which I believe was stock? accidentally changed from it and its since disappeared from the listings.

Does anyone have a copy of it?

Best Regards,

---

### Post by klemes on 2010-04-22
Yes I read somewhere that the wallpapers package got updated and was worring that I might loose my beautiful 10.4 white peebles on black background wallpaper on a sec.
That reminds me to put a reminder to back up my wallpapers before upgrading first.
For your request unfortunately I am not at the moment close to my LucidLynx machine,but if no-one else volunteers I promise I will send them to you ASAP when I get back to it.

EDIT:I think I saw it in art.gnome.org.Go to Backgrounds and click the second page.I think it's the last in the second row.

---

### Post by darolu on 2010-04-22
Search in /usr/share/backgrounds

I just uploaded it: [http://www.megaupload.com/?d=VN09BLFS](http://www.megaupload.com/?d=VN09BLFS)

---

### Post by Gorlist on 2010-04-22
Thank you klemes & darolu, very much appreciated!

I thought I was going crazy as I checked my laptop (which is also running 10.04) and it was missing.

Thanks again,

---

### Post by gmargo on 2010-04-22
It looks like the **ubuntu-wallpapers** package has been split into two packages, probably to squeeze it onto the CD.  The second package is called **ubuntu-wallpapers-extra**, and contains your beloved **Palmengarten.jpg** file.  Just install the **ubuntu-wallpapers-extra** package and all will be well again.

---

