---
title: "18.04.1 gparted wont start up with 2T drive"
date: 2018-08-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-08-24
I'm in hell
Add a 2T drive

Ubuntu won't boot
"press enter for maint or press ctl D
loop
wait forever
blow out an extension usb strip, so use usb2 extension to copy about 250gb of stuff over to it. Win10 says it's unformatted, try to reformat it with s/a gparted to gpt . finally, I think with 950gb ntfs and 950 ext3 (win10 only does ext3). Boot live 18.04 and strip the 2 work drives off fstab. unplug 2 drives. boot to ubuntu, start gparted and it just sits there endlessly scanning the 2T drive. okay 20 min later it wakes up and I try to reformat drive but it says one partition is mounted. it says the other one is ext4. okay, unmount. The 2T drive is flickering away - probably another 20 min. help

searching dev/sdb partitions - there are 2. what's it doing. I believe this is gpt.

TBird won't start up - just sits there with a circling arrow.

Every gparted operation takes 20min.

---
edit: nevermind - I had just bought a Vantec usb 3 hdd dock and apparently it was defective because as soon as I pulled it and plugged in my old vantec sata 6 to usb3 adapter, it worked fine. Go figure!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-08-25
Defective hardware.  
Please mark this thread as SOLVED (Thread tools button) to help others looking for answers and prevent people wanting to help from wasting time.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-08-25
> **TheFu said:**
> Defective hardware.  
Please mark this thread as SOLVED (Thread tools button) to help others looking for answers and prevent people wanting to help from wasting time.

but it is...

---

