---
title: "Dl'd updates, rebooted, instead of Ubuntu log in, got black screen white snow?!?!"
date: 2008-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-11-17
Alright I just downloaded and installed a bunch of updates and a driver for my new video card.

It told me to restart I did and then when the Ubuntu login screen came up it was very distorted, but visable so I did a hard button reboot.

Then the 2nd time around the GRUB menu and even the Ubuntu Loading screen showed up, but when it got to the login part, it didnt come up, instead a black screen with white snow came up.

It did the same thing on a 3rd boot.

Then I ran the recovery mode, I dont even know what that does, but I ran it, then it asked me to boot normal I did and the Ubuntu login was there and everything seems fine.

But is it?

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
I think i know exactly what your problem was. When you installed those updates one of them changed /ect/X11/xorg.conf. When you rebooted in recovery mode, xorg.conf was changed back (recovery mode fixes xorg.conf)

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
Basically I think everything should be just fine now. (Except your video may have some problems.) try running ```
glxgears
```and tell me what happens.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-11-17
> **Marius Derekus said:**
> Basically I think everything should be just fine now. (Except your video may have some problems.) try running ```
glxgears
```and tell me what happens.

Some weird little window popped up really quick and then this was given:

psychedelicwonders@JohnnyScience:~$ glxgears
Segmentation fault
psychedelicwonders@JohnnyScience:~$ 


What would have changed the /ect/X11/xorg.conf.?

what is /ect/X11/xorg.conf. exactly?

If I went back to an older mode, do I need to download and or update anything again?

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
(If you downloaded a package for your video, it might edit you xorg.conf file in attempt to fix your graphics).
You should have seen 3d gears. Did you ever have 3d support?  Type this in terminal and give me the results```
glxinfo | grep direct
```

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
Btw, Do not panic, I'm almost sure that everthing should be fine now. I'm just doing this just in case.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-11-17
psychedelicwonders@JohnnyScience:~$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: Yes
psychedelicwonders@JohnnyScience:~$ 


yay nay?

It was obiously trying to download a file that didnt work, do you think I need to make sure I download this file since it went back to a recovery?

How far back is the recovery from?

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
Sense it said "yes", i think you should be fine. No i wouldn't download the file because what ever file you downloaded is what changed xorg.conf which messed up your graphics.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-11-17
hmm alright thanks.

I assume if it ever happens just go to the recovery mode?

Why do I have 4 Ubuntus to choose from?

2 regular, 2 recoveries, paid in groups of twos with just a different value?

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
Yup, thats what recovery mode is for. Sorry, but i don't know the answer to the other question (i think we all have it though.) Give me a second and i'll check my own boot menu, then i'll reply back.

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
Yep. I don't know. But like i said, i think we all have it (at least you and i do).

---

### Post by TeXtonyx on 2008-11-17
If the new video driver was downloaded from nVidia, part of its
install process asks whether or not to update xorg.conf
Running nvidia-settings updates xorg.conf and if the driver wasn't 
installed properly then it often causes a low resolution problem.

gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Does the driver still say "nvidia"
or has the recovery process used a backup xorg.conf 
before the driver was changed to nvidia? And there
is other information pertinent to configuring dual monitors.

One can tell if the driver is still "nvidia" by reading
through the file that has been opened in the gedit step above.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-11-17
Seems to be so...

I have the 9600 GT Nvidia card which is apparently brand new and has super new drivers.

How do I make sure I have the most recent drivers for this new card?

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
To re-answer you question about the 4 ubuntus on the grub menu, I checked my brother's computer and his only had two. I think it is from installing ubuntu twice or something (maybe unsinstalling then reinstalling). Don't worry, the menus do the same thing, it won't hurt your computer at all.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-11-17
hmm.  so how would I go about delete the other ones?

I'm sure they're taking up space that I could use.

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
I don't know how to delete them. They are most likely only a few hundred kilobytes, you won't notice any space difference.

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
I'm back. If you need any help, just ask.

---

### Post by Marcus Derekus on 2008-11-17
Open terminal type: **sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst** if you notice you have two of each entry

(backup **/boot/grub/menu.lst** before doing this next. positive that if you do it right it wont cause a problem. Iknow what i'm doing. but just in case it is recommended.)

scroll down till you find red code and delete the same thing on your file. then save




```

# menu.lst - See: grub(8), info grub, update-grub(8)
#            grub-install(8), grub-floppy(8),
#            grub-md5-crypt, /usr/share/doc/grub
#            and /usr/share/doc/grub-doc/.

## default num
# Set the default entry to the entry number NUM. Numbering starts from 0, and
# the entry number 0 is the default if the command is not used.
#
# You can specify 'saved' instead of a number. In this case, the default entry
# is the entry saved with the command 'savedefault'.
# WARNING: If you are using dmraid do not use 'savedefault' or your
# array will desync and will not let you boot your system.
default		0

## timeout sec
# Set a timeout, in SEC seconds, before automatically booting the default entry
# (normally the first entry defined).
timeout		10

## hiddenmenu
# Hides the menu by default (press ESC to see the menu)
#hiddenmenu

# Pretty colours
#color cyan/blue white/blue

## password ['--md5'] passwd
# If used in the first section of a menu file, disable all interactive editing
# control (menu entry editor and command-line)  and entries protected by the
# command 'lock'
# e.g. password topsecret
#      password --md5 $1$gLhU0/$aW78kHK1QfV3P2b2znUoe/
# password topsecret

#
# examples
#
# title		Windows 95/98/NT/2000
# root		(hd0,0)
# makeactive
# chainloader	+1
#
# title		Linux
# root		(hd0,1)
# kernel	/vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2 ro
#

#
# Put static boot stanzas before and/or after AUTOMAGIC KERNEL LIST

### BEGIN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST
## lines between the AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST markers will be modified
## by the debian update-grub script except for the default options below

## DO NOT UNCOMMENT THEM, Just edit them to your needs

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=3210127A101244EF loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro

## Setup crashdump menu entries
## e.g. crashdump=1
# crashdump=0

## default grub root device
## e.g. groot=(hd0,0)
# groot=()/ubuntu/disks

## should update-grub create alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. alternative=true
##      alternative=false
# alternative=true

## should update-grub lock alternative automagic boot options
## e.g. lockalternative=true
##      lockalternative=false
# lockalternative=false

## additional options to use with the default boot option, but not with the
## alternatives
## e.g. defoptions=vga=791 resume=/dev/hda5
# defoptions=quiet splash

## should update-grub lock old automagic boot options
## e.g. lockold=false
##      lockold=true
# lockold=false

## Xen hypervisor options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenhopt=

## Xen Linux kernel options to use with the default Xen boot option
# xenkopt=console=tty0

## altoption boot targets option
## multiple altoptions lines are allowed
## e.g. altoptions=(extra menu suffix) extra boot options
##      altoptions=(recovery) single
# altoptions=(recovery mode) single

## controls how many kernels should be put into the menu.lst
## only counts the first occurence of a kernel, not the
## alternative kernel options
## e.g. howmany=all
##      howmany=7
# howmany=all

## should update-grub create memtest86 boot option
## e.g. memtest86=true
##      memtest86=false
# memtest86=true

## should update-grub adjust the value of the default booted system
## can be true or false
# updatedefaultentry=false

## should update-grub add savedefault to the default options
## can be true or false
# savedefault=false

## ## End Default Options ##

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root		()/ubuntu/disks
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=3210127A101244EF loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (recovery mode)
root		()/ubuntu/disks
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=3210127A101244EF loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic

[B][COLOR="RED"]title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root		()/ubuntu/disks
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=3210127A101244EF loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (recovery mode)
root		()/ubuntu/disks
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=3210127A101244EF loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic[/B][/COLOR]

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, memtest86+
root		()/ubuntu/disks
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Windows Vista/Longhorn (loader)
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
chainloader	+1


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda2
title		Windows Vista/Longhorn (loader)
root		(hd0,1)
savedefault
chainloader	+1
```

---

### Post by amp_man on 2008-11-17
> **Marius Derekus said:**
> To re-answer you question about the 4 ubuntus on the grub menu, I checked my brother's computer and his only had two. I think it is from installing ubuntu twice or something (maybe unsinstalling then reinstalling). Don't worry, the menus do the same thing, it won't hurt your computer at all.

It's from updating the kernel, you have kernel 2.6.xx-y and 2.6.xx-z, both of which have a normal and recovery mode. You can remove the old kernels through synaptic, scroll down to linux-kernel-2.6.* and remove the older ones. That should also remove all the modules, etc. OTOH, they don't take up that much room, and should anything go wrong, it's good to have another kernel to roll back to.

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
No, no no. I don't think it is from older kernerls. all he needs to do is edit the menu.lst file as Marcus derkus has pointed out. He is sending a post that will show you the lines to delete. (if you want to, you can still try what amp_man said. But i don't think that is what it is.) No, offense amp_man.

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-17
I'd check what anp_man said just in case, because he could very well be right. (And i don't want to steer you wrong.)

---

### Post by amp_man on 2008-11-17
I'd put money on it being two different kernel versions ;) menu.lst is maintained by an automatic script, update-grub, that searches /boot for kernels and populates menu.lst with entries for all of them. It's very good at what it does, I've never seen it give double entries for the same kernel. update-grub is run automatically by dpkg any time a kernel is added or removed. Also, apt/synaptic will not remove a previous kernel version when it updates the kernel, because that kernel is likely the one that's running, nor will it remove the menu.lst entries for that kernel.

---

### Post by Marcus Derekus on 2008-11-17
Amp man is RIGHT! SO RIGHT!

Marius said thanx! DO NOT REMOVE THE OTHER OPTION UNLESS YOU PLAN ON REMOVING THE KERNEL (use your backup to restore your changes if you made any)

---

### Post by amp_man on 2008-11-17
> **Marcus Derekus said:**
> Amp man is RIGHT! SO RIGHT!

Marius said thanx! DO NOT REMOVE THE OTHER OPTION UNLESS YOU PLAN ON REMOVING THE KERNEL (use your backup to restore your changes if you made any)

Or just do "sudo update-grub"

---

### Post by Marcus Derekus on 2008-11-17
Or that. LOL

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-11-17
> **amp_man said:**
> Or just do "sudo update-grub"

what will that do exactly?

Is it really good to have another Ubuntu as a backup in the grub?

---

### Post by amp_man on 2008-11-18
> **PsychedelicWonders said:**
> what will that do exactly?

Is it really good to have another Ubuntu as a backup in the grub?

update-grub will find all the kernels installed in /boot/ (where ubuntu installs them by default), parse the options set in menu.lst (defoptions, etc, etc), and create menu entries for all of them. If your kernel is working fine, there's no need to install another one, and if you use binary ati/nvidia video drivers, installing another kernel can cause massive headaches.

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-11-19
> **amp_man said:**
> update-grub will find all the kernels installed in /boot/ (where ubuntu installs them by default), parse the options set in menu.lst (defoptions, etc, etc), and create menu entries for all of them. If your kernel is working fine, there's no need to install another one, and if you use binary ati/nvidia video drivers, installing another kernel can cause massive headaches.


This seems like jargon to me.  :)

So is it a good thing to keep this extra Ubuntu kernal & recovery?

how do I know which one is the most recent one to use?

i've been using the kernal that defaults to the 1st posision?

---

