---
title: "several kernel oops"
date: 2007-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Giana on 2007-07-17
some days ago, my pc froze suddenly, leaving me the only optio to switch it off. Since then the phenomena occurred more or less once per day and I started to experience several kernel oops.
I suspected that the crashes were due to a thermal problem being the summer getting hot and the pc was moved in a corner.
In fact, I managed to reduce the crashes by improving the internal ventilation but I still get several kernel oops.
Very often an application crashes and doesn't restart until a complete reboot.

I'd like to understand and debug the cause but I need help for that. What kind of info/log should I look for and where? Any action suggested

Thanks in advance

G.

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-07-18
Hi there,

An "oops" is a *major* failure that users shouldn't really ever see. They're quite difficult to debug, mostly because the precise detail of the specific failure is not often particularly relevant. My advice would be...
[LIST]
[*]Whatever you do, try to find some way of addressing the problem as urgently as possible. Although the Linux kernel does its best to clean up after itself (despite the fact that "oops" means it's falling apart at the seams!), it's only a matter of time before you start losing data, or damaging your hardware.
[*]There are no "minor" problems that can cause oopses. Basically, you're looking for things like extremely badly-written code, faulty hardware, overheating (as you mentioned already), mismatches between your software's target architecture and your CPU, and so on.
[*]If you suspect poor ventilation is the cause, you could try scaling down your CPU a little, so it generates less heat. I find that Linux pushes PCs very hard, if you let it! The last time I experienced an "oops" (a few years ago), removing and re-fitting my CPU's heatsink & fan sorted it out. Did you build your computer yourself?
[*]One quick & easy exercise is to eliminate bad RAM as the cause, or a contributing factor. Next time you're rebooting, run a full memory test. There are many applications available for doing this.[/LIST]Until you feel confident you've identified the cause, I would recommend doing anything possible to reduce the likelihood that your files might get damaged.
[LIST]
[*]If you don't need write access to certain things (eg non-critical filesystems, such as storage space used for movies, or something), have your system mount them explicitly as read only. You can always **sudo mount -o remount,rw... **them yourself, if you need to perform a few write operations.
[*]Avoid performing system updates. Kernel oopses can affect the quality of generated bytecode, compiled binaries/libraries, archive extractions, and so on. If your system craps out on you in the middle of something critical, your Ubuntu might become unbootable or unstable.
[*]Consider backing up anything you can't afford to lose.[/LIST]I know this post isn't *really* particularly helpful, but I wanted to be sure you got *some* sort of response. This is a nasty problem, with no clear-cut, easy answer, so it's not surprising that it's gone a whole day without a reply, even though more than 20 people have looked at it! :-(

Be sure to let us know how you get on.

---

### Post by Giana on 2007-07-23
Hi kidders,thanks for your extensive post.
No big news unfortunately up to now. I scaled down the CPU frequency, the core voltage and I manage to keep both MB and CPU temp between 46-50 celsius.
I booted with the ubuntu live cd and I let the pc playing movies and musig for a while without problem. But as soon I started to use the disks the I received some errors as well.

For the moment I got the conclusion that somehow the system has problems after an intensive use of one disk, the sata one where the main partitions are. The disk is very hot as well. Is there a safe way to reduce a bit hdd power consumption without spinning it off completely?

Thanks in advance,

G.

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-07-23
> **Giana said:**
> I manage to keep both MB and CPU temp between 46-50 celsius.Hmm... that's not particularly cool. :-( I wonder if your heatsink could do with being repositioned. As you may know, if a heatsink is making poor contact with the surface of its CPU, the temperature of small patches of the processor can increase wildly.

Despite the fact that I'm a warm room, my box's CPU temperature drops right down into the 30s, when I'm not pushing it too hard. Since I installed its heatsink myself, I'm confident that the numbers I see reflect the temperature of the *entire* die.

> **Giana said:**
> The disk is very hot as well.That's not good, although I don't think a hard disk overheating ought to cause oopses. Hard disks prefer to be very cool, despite the fact that many modern, high-capacity ones seem to generate quite a bit of waste heat. Normally, I mount mine with a fan right beside them and/or screw cooling pipes onto them.

I wonder how well-ventilated your box is, in general. Just in case they're of any use to you, here are a few guidelines...
[LIST]
[*]You should keep your box properly sealed ... the only openings should be your vents. Removing PCI, floppy drives, etc. and leaving their slots uncovered is not a good idea.
[*]Try to arrange your fans so air is sucked in one end of your box, and out the other, so a steady "breeze" flows over your components.
[*]Nothing in your box should be uncomfortable to touch. Check things like your northbridge, RAM, hard disks & GPU ... if they feel hot (rather than "warm") to you, they may benefit from heatsinks or fans. If they're *all* a little on the hot side, you should install more powerful chassis fans.
[*]Stray wires inside your box should be tied together and tucked away. It's amazing how much of an effect they can have on ventilation.
[*]Both sides of all vents should, of course, be unobstructed. Several inches of space are required, for instance, between a vent and a wall.[/LIST]

I'm sorry this is happening to you. Have you double-checked that your problems definitely aren't the fault of a glitch in Ubuntu? It might be worth doing a quick install of another (sufficiently different) OS (ie not Debian!), and trying to provoke an oops.

---

### Post by Giana on 2007-07-25
Probably I locate the source of the problem: the main HD temperature.
I've noticed that the PC was crashing when programs having a continuous disk activity were running.
I've installed hdparm, hddtemp and other sensors utilities and started logging and at the same time I reduced CPU speed and voltages.
The crashes or oops occurred always with /dev/sda temperature of 57-58°C even if I manage to keep the CPU temperature very low.
The confirm is that the same movie played from sda crashes the pc but not if played from hda.

Solution adopted: I improved ventilation around the HD's and I moved emule Temp dir to another disk. 

Thanks for your help

G.

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-07-25
That's great news. :-)

---

