---
title: "9.10 - unable to startup again ubuntu"
date: 2010-03-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ciceron31 on 2010-03-21
Dear All

I have installed [COLOR=Red]Ubuntu 9.10[/COLOR] from two months on a new computer and all was ok until yesterday.

The last time i connected on my computer, i installed some upgrades (suggested by the updater manager). i do not know if we can say that it is the root cause of my problem.

From now, my computer(the machine) is starting well, the ubuntu logo is appearing on the screen after grub loading, and then i have below the logo , a paragraph that is saying that the systems is checking the integrity of the files with a percentage....and then nothing more and the system is freezed that is the screen is black without anything. I tried a lots of things to catch the error messages (photo, camera, without any success), i tried to verify also if it was not a harware issue, .... from my understanding, i think it is coming from the configuration i performed

For more explanation, i have installed ubuntu from the alternate ISO in order to configure RAID 1. I have 2 HD (same ones), sda and sdb, and three partitions md0, md1 and md2.

As i am not yet confident with Linux, could you please help me to identify what is wrong and how to fix it quickly?

Thank you in advance for your help 
Ciceron31

---

### Post by Sin@Sin-Sacrifice on 2010-03-21
Boot into a live-cd (live-usb... whatever), open a command terminal and run fsck on the root directory of the hard drive. Post output here.

---

### Post by ciceron31 on 2010-03-21
Thank you Sin@sin sacrifice


First of all, see my partitions (extract from gparted )
 - sda1 and sdb1, ext2 file system with Raid and boot flags
 - sda2 and sdb2, linux swap file system with  Raid flag
 - sd3 and sdb3, ext 3 file system , with  Raid flag

I used the live cd to launch a new ubuntu that cannot impair my system.

I tried the fsck command on each disk that are /dev/sda1 to3, /dev/sdb1 to3 and the system said for sda1 and sdb1 that the device or ressource was busy trying to open it. Filesystem mounted or opened exclusively by another program 

I used the command e2fsck on sda3 and sdb3 178648/29605888 files, 4149901/118409072 blocks for both but i have had an additional message for sdb3 recovering journal

On sda2 and sdb2, fsck indicates that it did not find fsck.swap and provides an error 2 while excuting fsck.swap 


Afterwards i also tested the df command and system monitor graphic interface, and i never saw my HD

hope it will help you

---

### Post by phen0m on 2010-03-21
Your computer may actually be running fsck on them in the background and giving no notification.

This has happened to me a couple times, causing me to freak out because I thought my drives were gone.  Check your 'ps aux | grep fsck' and see if it's running.  If it is, just leave it for a couple hours.

---

### Post by ciceron31 on 2010-03-22
I tried what you said. and have tested twice applications fsck e2fsck

On sda1 and sdb1, once the system is started, the e2fsck command indicates that the partition (/dev/sda1 resp. /dev/sdb1) was not cleanly unmounted, check forced. 
And then i have the 5 tests (inodes, structure, connectivity, counts, group summary)with pass.
With fsck command i obtain the following message fsck.linux_raid member not found, error 2 while executing linx_raid_member for /dev/sda1 resp /dev/sdb1

Run the command e2fsck on /dev/sda2 and /dev/sdb2: i have a warning messagetelling me that running e2fsck on a mounted filesytem may cause severe filesystem damage, so i stopped the operation (swap)

The e2fsck is ok with the sda2 and sdb2 partitions
The fsck command on /dev/sda2, /dev/sdb2, /dev/sda3, /dev/sdb3 raised the same error as said before on /dev/sda1 and sdb1

What is very strange is that the md0 to md2 are no more available and cannot perfom any request on them
I believed that the RAID 1 was quite stable

Please, what is the next step to solve this issue! I am not confident with this error

---

### Post by ciceron31 on 2010-03-24
I have additional info about my concern.

I could provide you now the information related to the MD

mdadm with detail option on md0, 1 and 2
[COLOR=Blue]md0
version:00.90
level: Raid 1
Array size/used dev size:4980032
Raid devices/total devices:2
Preferred minor:0
Persistent: Superblock is persistent
state:clean
Active devices/working devices:2
failed devices/spare devices:0[/COLOR]

[COLOR=Blue]md1: Ditto except for the following attributes
Array size/used dev size:9767424
Preferred minor:1

md2: Ditto except for the following attributes
Array size/used dev size:473636288
Preferred minor:2
state: active, resyncing

Rebuild status 59% complete[/COLOR]

Is there anything to do to complete the rebuilding of the md2?

I have also perform a dmesg- and below what i found on md

[COLOR=Blue][I]>md0 stopped
>md: bind <sdb1>
>md: bind <sda1>
>Raid 1: raid set md0 active with 2 out of 2 mirrors
>md0 detected capacity change from 0 to 5099552768
>md: md1 stopped
>md0: unknow partition table
>md: bind <sdb2>
>md: bind <sda2>
>Raid 1: raid set md1 active with 2 out of 2 mirrors
>md0 detected capacity change from 0 to 100001842176
>md: md2 stopped
>md1: unknow partition table
>md: bind <sdb3>
 >md: bind <sda3>
 >Raid 1: md2 is not clean  -- starting background reconstruction
>Raid 1: raid set md2 active with 2 out of 2 mirrors
>md0 detected capacity change from 0 to 485003558912
 >md: md2 
>md: resync of RAID array md2
>md: minimu _guaranteed_ speed: 10000kb/sec/disk
>md: using maximum available idle IO bandwith (but not more than 200000 kB/sec) for resync
>md: using 128k window, over a total of 473636288 blocks
>md: resuming resync of md2 from checkpoint
> unknow partition table
>Kjournald starting. Commit interval 5 seconds
>EXT3 FS on md2, internal journal
>EXT3-fs: mounted filesystem with writeback data mode[/I][/COLOR]

---

