---
title: "(9.10) Sound garbled, crackles"
date: 2009-12-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jdunavin on 2009-12-24
I am literally at my wit's end on this, so here goes. I have a Creative X-Fi Xtrememusic card, which worked perfectly in 9.04. I upgraded to 9.10 and got extraordinarily crackled/garbled sound from any source (music / Web videos / system sounds, etc).

I thought it was because of Pulse Audio, so I tried all the remedies I could find on this forum and elsewhere to no avail. I've tried both the GNOME Ubuntu and Kubuntu with the same results (which led me to believe it might not be Pulse).

I've installed the latest ALSA drivers for my card.

If it's any help, I've attached both the output of aplay and the verbose output of Pulse.

I hope this kind of thing isn't the sign of things to come for this distro, as I've used it since the beginning.

Any ideas or suggestions, I'd appreciate 'em.

Thanks,

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-24
Can you post the output of this command:
```
head -n 1 /proc/asound/card0/codec*
```

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-24
You updated alsa via this how to??
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6589810#post6589810]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6589810#post6589810")
 What version do you now have?
```
cat /proc/asound/version
```

---

### Post by jdunavin on 2009-12-24
The first command (head -n 1 /proc/asound/card0/codec*) produced an error "No such file or directory". The second shows the version as 1.0.21.

I enabled my MB's on board sound which appears to work okay. I'd still like to get this working, though.

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-24
> **jdunavin said:**
> The first command (head -n 1 /proc/asound/card0/codec*) produced an error "No such file or directory". The second shows the version as 1.0.21.


Sounds like a problem.
Let me see the output of these commands:

```
sudo lshw -C sound
```

```
find /lib/modules/`uname -r` | grep snd
```

---

### Post by jdunavin on 2009-12-25
The first command, which shows my Creative card along with the onboard sound and my TV card:

>   *-multimedia            
       description: Multimedia audio controller
       product: CK804 AC'97 Audio Controller
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: d
       bus info: pci@0000:00:0d.0
       version: a2
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=Intel ICH latency=0 maxlatency=5 mingnt=2
       resources: irq:22 ioport:e800(size=256) ioport:ec00(size=256) memory:dfffc000-dfffcfff
  *-multimedia:0
       description: Multimedia audio controller
       product: SB X-Fi
       vendor: Creative Labs
       physical id: 3
       bus info: pci@0000:03:03.0
       version: 00
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=SB-XFi latency=64 maxlatency=5 mingnt=4
       resources: irq:19 ioport:cce0(size=32) memory:dce00000-dcffffff memory:d8000000-dbffffff
  *-multimedia:1 UNCLAIMED
       description: Multimedia controller
       product: ATI Technologies Inc
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 4
       bus info: pci@0000:03:04.0
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=64 maxlatency=4 mingnt=2
       resources: memory:dcd00000-dcdfffff memory:d0000000-d1ffffff(prefetchable)


And the second is attached because it was longer.

Thanks for taking an interest.

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-25
Run these commands:
```
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo update-grub
```

Shutdown. Remove Sound Card. Wipe the contacts with a clean cloth lighty moistened with rubbing alcohol. Now reseat SB in slot firmly. Reboot into bios and disable onboard sound. Start normally.

Post the contents of:
```
gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf
```

---

### Post by jdunavin on 2009-12-25
Contents of /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf as follows:

> 
# autoloader aliases
install sound-slot-0 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-0
install sound-slot-1 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-1
install sound-slot-2 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-2
install sound-slot-3 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-3
install sound-slot-4 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-4
install sound-slot-5 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-5
install sound-slot-6 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-6
install sound-slot-7 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-7

# Cause optional modules to be loaded above generic modules
install snd /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-ioctl32 ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }
#
# Workaround at bug #499695 (reverted in Ubuntu see LP #319505)
install snd-pcm /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-pcm $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-pcm-oss ; : ; }
install snd-mixer /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-mixer $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-mixer-oss ; : ; }
install snd-seq /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-seq $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-oss ; : ; }
#
install snd-rawmidi /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-rawmidi $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; : ; }
# Cause optional modules to be loaded above sound card driver modules
install snd-emu10k1 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-emu10k1 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-emu10k1-synth ; }
install snd-via82xx /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-via82xx $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }

# Load saa7134-alsa instead of saa7134 (which gets dragged in by it anyway)
install saa7134 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install saa7134 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist saa7134-alsa ; : ; }
# Prevent abnormal drivers from grabbing index 0
options bt87x index=-2
options cx88_alsa index=-2
options saa7134-alsa index=-2
options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2
options snd-intel8x0m index=-2
options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
options snd-usb-us122l index=-2
options snd-usb-usx2y index=-2
options snd-usb-caiaq index=-2
# Ubuntu #62691, enable MPU for snd-cmipci
options snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330 fm_port=0x388
# Keep snd-pcsp from being loaded as first soundcard
options snd-pcsp index=-2
# Power down HDA controllers after 10 idle seconds
#options snd-hda-intel power_save=10 power_save_controller=N

---

### Post by m0ar on 2009-12-25
My soundproblems in Karmic was solved by the soundproblemsolder of them all
```
sudo apt-get purge pulseaudio
```

---

### Post by jdunavin on 2009-12-25
Unfortunately, that didn't solve mine. I even installed Kubuntu 9.10, which doesn't even have it (fully?) installed. Same results.

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-26
There are some problems here that may benefit from a re-install of alsa. I would recommend this tutorial followed to the letter:
[http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2009/12/17/upgrade-alsa-1-0-22-on-ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10/]("http://monespaceperso.org/blog-en/2009/12/17/upgrade-alsa-1-0-22-on-ubuntu-karmic-koala-9-10/")
(this will install latest version 1.0.22)

---

### Post by jdunavin on 2009-12-26
No effect. Sound is still garbled and crackles, no matter the source.

EDIT: Just did some more testing. "No effect" was a bit hasty. Clearly there has been some improvement. I just watched a couple of embedded videos with no popping / crackling at all. MP3 play back via both Audacious and Banshee still had the crackles and pops, but not as much as prior.

Thanks again for your help so far.

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-26
I remember doing something a while back that may have some bearing on this issue. Bear with me as my memory has faded on this.

Go to Alt+F4 run box. Type in 
```
gnome-alsamixer
``` and press the run button. Look for a slider denoted as "Beep" and place a check in the "Mute" box. If not visible open "Sound Card Properties" from the "Edit" menu and check to enable visibility of the "Beep" element. Now close that and you should be able to mute it.

---

### Post by jdunavin on 2009-12-26
There is no such element, nor is there an option to make one visible. The attached screenshots are what is available to me.

---

### Post by lidex on 2009-12-26
OK.
Can you post the output of this command again:
```
head -n 1 /proc/asound/card0/codec*
```

---

### Post by jdunavin on 2009-12-26
The output is:

```
head: cannot open `/proc/asound/card0/codec*' for reading: No such file or directory

```

---

