---
title: "16.04 -&gt; 18.04 - black screen on boot, empty TTY screens, cannot login with GUI"
date: 2018-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by n8bit on 2018-04-27
New to Linux, found myself between a rock and a hard place after upgrading from 16.04 to 18.04 via the terminal command ```
do-release-upgrade -d
```
The upgrade completed with a few errors but I did not explicitly note them before reboot, unfortunately.


[LIST]
[*]On boot-up I encounter a black screen.
[*]My TTY screens are showing nothing.
[*]The login GUI screen residing on CTRL+ALT+F3 allows me to login to my user
[*]Post-login it will just sit there and never progresses to the desktop.
[*]The login GUI still displays "Ubuntu 16.04 LTS" as the version (but I'm not entirely sure if that's contained in the background image or not).
[/LIST]

So, I guess my question is: How do I access a terminal in this odd state so I can poke around at my install?

Secondary question would be: Why would my TTY screens show nothing, but the GUI still displays? I'm running on an AMD Radeon HD 7970 if that matters.

---

### Post by samuelli on 2018-04-29
I had the same problem. I used ssh to: 
$sudo dpkg --configure -a
$sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

---

### Post by geraarg on 2018-04-29
> **samuelli said:**
> I had the same problem. I used ssh to: 
$sudo dpkg --configure -a
$sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

Hi, I have the same problem and that didn't resolve this.
I think will be a problem with the kernel 4.15 and the nvidia drivers (In my case, a 1070)

:confused: :confused::confused::confused:

---

### Post by geraarg on 2018-04-30
My Xorg log file, anyone can help me? :)

---

### Post by tajreed on 2018-04-30
At the black screen, log-in and try  Sudo systemctl restart gdm3. Worked for me. My only be fix for that boot. If I reboot I have to start again.

---

### Post by geraarg on 2018-04-30
> **tajreed said:**
> At the black screen, log-in and try  Sudo systemctl restart gdm3. Worked for me. My only be fix for that boot. If I reboot I have to start again.

I can't use the tty, I connect with my pc via ssh and that fixt didn't work for me. 
Thanks in advance. :)

---

### Post by geraarg on 2018-04-30
Problem solved
I only follow this guide for install the privative drivers:

[https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-the-nvidia-drivers-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux](https://linuxconfig.org/how-to-install-the-nvidia-drivers-on-ubuntu-18-04-bionic-beaver-linux)

---

