---
title: "7.04 Problems"
date: 2007-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brummie on 2007-05-10
I installed the latest ubuntu but it would keep crashing and i would get no responce from the computer   .
I changed the start up to noacpi and used apm instead and this solved it.
But now the computer wont fully shut down and i need to press the off button after ubuntu has closed.
is there anything i can do to remedy this??

---

### Post by brummie on 2007-05-11
Update:
 APM did the same eventually. Had to go back to 6.10 to get a stable working machine

Comp:
Athlon 2500
Abit nf7-s
Ati 9800pro
1536MB mem

Anyone have any idea why it would just freeze in Ubuntu/Kubuntu 7.04 and no other OS??

Makes me sad i ant use the latest version cause its so unstable :(

---

### Post by brummie on 2007-05-12
Well lack of any answers here so does anyone know where i could get support for this??

Have i just posted in the wrong forum?

Please help.

---

### Post by dbott67 on 2007-05-12
Unfortunately, tracking down some of these issues can be a painstaking process.

What you need to do is to try to document what processes/applications are running when the crash would occur.  Are there any error messages? Any weird entries in the log files?  Does it always happen when a particular program is running (i.e. Firefox/flash plug-in, etc.)?

I had a problem with flash-enabled sites always causing Firefox to crash in Edgy and switched back to Dapper.  I have since upgraded to Feisty and have only occasionally experienced the crash.

If you find that one specific app causes a crash, try using an alternative program and see if it's more stable (i.e. Epiphany or Opera vs. Firefox; Thunderbird vs. Evolution; AbiWord vs. OppenOffice).   Once you've narrowed down the offending application, you may be able to more effectively search for a solution.

-Dave

---

### Post by brummie on 2007-05-12
Its not specific. It can crash anytime.

I can go away from the comp for to make a coffee or something and its left on the desktop or screen lock and it will still freeze :(

I've had to abandon 7.04 and use 6.10 which is perfect.
Looks like i will have to look for a new distro as i am too inexperienced with linux to sort it out myself :(

---

### Post by dbott67 on 2007-05-12
If 6.10 works, I would stick with it.

There are not many distros that update as regularly and often as Ubuntu does.  The version numbers tend to confuse some folks, though.  The version number is based upon the year & month of release:

7.04 - April 2007
6.10 - October 2006
6.06 - June 2006 - LTS
5.10 - October 2005

So, 6.10 is only 7 months old... developers have had a chance to iron out some bugs and other issues that have arisen.  When you try to stay on the leading edge, you need to expect that there will be troubles from time-to-time.

Other distros may not be as recent as 6.10, nor as stable.  I still run 6.10 on my laptop and was running 6.06 on my desktop up until March (again, I had some issues with 6.10 on my desktop).  When 7.04 came out, I upgraded my desktop and haven't had problems.

You may be best served by running with 6.10 and upgrade when 7.10 comes out this fall.

-Dave

---

### Post by brummie on 2007-05-12
kinda what i was thinking. Thanks for the nudge, i'll think thats what i will do for now.

Just bugs me i dont know whats going on :(

thanks for your help so far, appreciated.

---

### Post by eurgain on 2007-05-12
[QUOTE=brummie;2636888]Update:
 APM did the same eventually. Had to go back to 6.10 to get a stable working machine

Comp:
Athlon 2500
Abit nf7-s
Ati 9800pro
1536MB mem

...

That is a slightly strange memory configuration...  It is 1024M + 512M, so how do you achieve it?  I mean, what combination of memory modules do you have installed?  I am not *certain* that there is anything wrong, but it just seems a strange combination, and I would look at your mainboard manual to make 100% sure that it is a supported combination.

Normally, you should install *one* memory module or one or more *pairs* of *identical* modules in interleaved memory slots, so you should end up with one or an even number (greater than one) of modules.  I don't think that you have this.

It might be worth trying again with your machine, pulling out some memory, to achieve a nice symmetrical 1G of memory installed and see how that works out.

A

---

### Post by brummie on 2007-05-13
Yeah its fine.

3x 512MB actually runs in dual channel mode.
Its even states it in the manual.

I can put Ubuntu 6.10 or Windows or any other distro on this computer and it is completely stable.
As soon as i put 7.04 on then it randomly freezes. It has to be a bug in 7.04 but i cant figure out
what is causing it due to my limited knowledge of the Linux workings :(

The next thing i am trying at the mo is upgrading from 6.10 to 7.04 but using the older kernel.
The newest one still crashed so i'm seeing how i get on with 2.6.17-11-generic instead of 2.6.20-15-generic

---

### Post by brummie on 2007-05-13
Quick update.

My machine has been rock solid since upgrading to 7.04 and using the 2.6.17-11-generic kernel.

Is it any security risk or is it bad to do this?? 
Any ideas why this is happening and would the next one be OK you reakon??

---

### Post by SirShaggy on 2007-05-31
I am currently running a very similar setup on Fiesty.
Abit NF7-S ver2 motherboard
Athlon XP-M 2800+ CPU (218x11.5=2510)
Thermalright SI-97 heatsink w/ Panaflo 92mm fan
2x512MB Corsair XMS Platinum PC3200 ram, Rev1.1
XFX 6800 XT 256MB AGP 8x graphics card
Turtle Beach Santa Cruz 5.1ch sound card
Seagate 7200.10 ATA 120GB hard drive
Actiontech 56k modem w/ Lucent Venus chipset
HP DVD burner, Sony CDRW and Mitsumi Floppy Drive.

Anyway, as you did, I selected noacpi and it installed fine. I ran into a couple of crashes in the first week or two.
I started messing around and found out that my mouse was giving me the trouble! Weird, I know. It was replaced and I have had no other issues, even with this overclock! I can't say for sure but I had a 1GB stick of Corsair XMS Platinum installed with my 2 512 Sticks for a while. I found strange boot errors with 3 sticks installed. Yes I know there are 3 slots available for RAM and Abit say's you can run 3 sticks in dual channel, but I had a few issues. I actually have 3 of these boards, all running Linux, all with mobile CPUs and all with 2x512MB of RAM installed. They just work very well.
Also, I'd suggest checking the northbridge fan. They are known for going out after a couple of years and impossible to hear. Last, I'd suggest checking your bios. There it D27 available as the last update and fixed a couple of issues with mac address and firewire. Plus overclocking is more stable on D27. Worth trying anyway.
SirShaggy

---

