---
title: "services don't start without logging in first"
date: 2009-03-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by revka on 2009-03-03
Hello all,

It looks like networking (/etc/init.d/NetworkManager), and by association, sshd (/etc/init.d/ssh) don't seem to start until I physically login to Ubuntu.

My test (lame as it is) to prove the above is to ping and attempt to login using ssh after a reboot. If I walk over to this desktop, login via Gnome, my pings are successful, and I can login via ssh.

I've experienced this issue with Ubuntu 8.10 and Ubuntu 8.10 Server and I am familiar with adding scripts to init.d & rcx.d.

I searched around, and wasn't able to find anything that really nailed my issue, or anything that wasn't a fairly old thread. I apologize if I didn't search well enough, and I'd appreciate it if you could point me in *any direction* that will help me with my issue :).

---

### Post by dereknashvilleff on 2009-03-10
I just set up my own home server and am having the same issue.  If i find anything i will be sure to get back to you.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-03-10
For a server, you should ditch the NetworkManager. It's meant primarily for dynamic networks. For a server, you just want a static address.

---

### Post by revka on 2009-03-10
> **Slim Odds said:**
> For a server, you should ditch the NetworkManager. It's meant primarily for dynamic networks. For a server, you just want a static address.

Thanks for mentioning this. I'll replace NetworkManager with 'networking', and check back.

---

### Post by revka on 2009-03-11
I replaced 'NetworkManager' with 'networking', and had worse symptoms; Networking (as in, "I can't ping google.com", not the service) wasn't working even after logging in via Gnome. When I run '/etc/init.d/networking start' (or restart) by hand I just get '[OK]' as if everything is normal, but networking still doesn't work:
```

wes@senna:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking stop
[sudo] password for wes: 
 * Deconfiguring network interfaces...                                   [ OK ] 
wes@senna:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking start
 * Configuring network interfaces...                                     [ OK ] 
wes@senna:~$ 

```

For reference, my '/etc/network/interfaces' is configured correctly per the [Ubuntu Server Guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/network-configuration.html"). I am expecting my 'networking' symlink in '/etc/rc2.d' be executed before I login. What do you guys think?

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-03-12
> **revka said:**
> For reference, my '/etc/network/interfaces' is configured correctly per the [Ubuntu Server Guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/8.10/serverguide/C/network-configuration.html"). I am expecting my 'networking' symlink in '/etc/rc2.d' be executed before I login. What do you guys think?

Why don't you post your /etc/network/interfaces file and your /etc/resolv.conf file?

---

### Post by revka on 2009-03-12
> **Slim Odds said:**
> Why don't you post your /etc/network/interfaces file and your /etc/resolv.conf file?
Great idea, (and nice post count;) ):
```
devtest@cartman:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
auto eth0 lo
iface lo inet loopback

iface eth0 inet static
address 10.10.86.21
netmask 255.255.0.0
network 10.10.0.0
devtest@cartman:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
search domain.com
nameserver 10.10.1.56
devtest@cartman:~$ 

```

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-03-12
> **revka said:**
> Great idea, (and nice post count;) ):
```
devtest@cartman:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
auto eth0 lo
iface lo inet loopback

iface eth0 inet static
address 10.10.86.21
netmask 255.255.0.0
network 10.10.0.0
devtest@cartman:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
search domain.com
nameserver 10.10.1.56
devtest@cartman:~$ 

```

You're missing a gateway.... from your address and netmask I believe that you should add this line to your /etc/netword/interfaces:```
gateway 10.10.0.1
```But double that's what the address of your router is (that's most likely your gateway).

Thnx, just trying to help

---

### Post by revka on 2009-03-18
> **Slim Odds said:**
> You're missing a gateway.... 

Thnx, just trying to help

haha, well, it took me a while to respond; After such a bone-headed mistake, I wanted to make sure I had my stuff in order before I came back to this issue again.

This is going to sound stupid, but it's the truth: the interface file I showed before was actually me typing in the forum what I *thought* was in my interface file. Below is what I am currently working with (I actually copied this format from a known-good installation).

```
devtest@cartman:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
auto lo eth0
iface lo inet loopback
iface eth0 inet static
address 10.10.86.21
netmask 255.255.0.0
network 10.10.0.0
broadcast 10.10.255.255
gateway 10.10.1.252

devtest@cartman:~$ 

```

I hope this provides better insight then what was given before.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-03-18
Can you ping the gateway?

Also what does your routing look like?:```
route -n
```

---

### Post by revka on 2009-03-18
I gotta say, I'm kinda jaded with this computer when it comes to networking, but even I was surprised when I saw this output

```
devtest@cartman:~$ sudo service NetworkManager stop; sudo service networking start
[sudo] password for devtest:
 * Stopping NetworkManager...                                            [ OK ]
 * Configuring network interfaces...                                     [ OK ]
devtest@cartman:~$ ping 10.10.1.252
connect: Network is unreachable
devtest@cartman:~$ route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
devtest@cartman:~$
```

---

### Post by revka on 2009-04-03
The two-weeks-and-this-is-still-important-to-me bump :D


PS. I don't think I'm entitled to help, just very anxious about resolving this. I _really_ want to start deploying production servers running Ubuntu, but I can't seem to get the automation down. As always, thanks for any help.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-04-03
> **revka said:**
> devtest@cartman:~$ route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
devtest@cartman:~$

Well..... you have no routes.

It looks like your interfaces file is still messed up. Why don't you post a fresh copy.....?

---

### Post by revka on 2009-04-03
Well, I want to start this off by thanking Slim Odds, you were really helpful, and pointed me right where I should have been looking.

I ran route again while NetworkManager was still active, and found where my "problem" was
```
devtest@cartman:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces 
auto lo eth0
iface lo inet loopback
iface eth0 inet static
address 10.10.86.21
netmask 255.255.0.0
network 10.10.0.0
broadcast 10.10.255.255
gateway 10.10.1.252

devtest@cartman:~$ date
Fri Apr  3 11:50:47 PDT 2009
devtest@cartman:~$ route -n
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
169.254.0.0     0.0.0.0         255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth1
10.0.0.0        0.0.0.0         255.192.0.0     U     1      0        0 eth1
0.0.0.0         10.10.1.252     0.0.0.0         UG    0      0        0 eth1
```

Switched ports, renamed NetworkManager's rc?.d links, and rebooted. Everything is working great!

Kinda bummed my first experience with Ubuntu Forums was so boneheaded, but thanks again for your help and continued effort.

---

