---
title: "9.04 Screen Resolution Problems with HDMI Out"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kabbink on 2009-05-08
Hey guys,

I am running Ubuntu on my HTPC with an HDMI out to a 52" 1080p LCD.  When I first installed there was a black border around everything (the desktop wasn't taking up the whole screen).

Then I went ahead and loaded the proprietary drivers from nVidia and now the desktop takes the whole screen except the top application bar and bottom bar showing the trash and second desktop are now not visible.  They are definitely still there as I can move the mouse to them and click and see the drop downs from the applications, places, system menus etc. but the bar itself is outside of the viewable area.

What do you I need to do to fix this?  I tried some different resolution settings in the nVidia manager and they had the same problems...

Thanks!

---

### Post by hatalar205 on 2009-05-09
I have similar problem and I have been looking everywhere for it. I have find something in Sabayon forum and when I learn how to I will write a how to post here.

---

### Post by mtbdrew on 2009-05-11
I had the same issue when trying to use the HDMI cable and was able to fix this by using a custom EDID file. Seems Nvidia drivers are corrupting the EDID over HDMI. Does you TV have an RGB connection? If so try connecting via that and see if the correct resolution is detected as mine was and it makes the correction easier. Go under the Nvidia settings utility and you'll find a "Acquire EDID" button, save the file to etc/Xll/custom.bin then rename the file to custom.edid. Go into the xorg file and add the following line under the first Device that has your Nvidia card:

Option "CustomEDID" "DFP-0:/etc/X11/custom.edid"


If you can't get the EDID file that way let me know.

---

### Post by SirAry on 2009-05-11
I have problems on a 42" screen over hdmi ... VGA works (as it works-not very well). On hdmi, it tries to show image for a blink, and then falls to black ... I think a EDID problem to... Are somebody familiar with setting a LCD screen properly in 9.04? Vide4o is intel ... g45
Thanks

---

### Post by mtbdrew on 2009-05-12
> **SirAry said:**
> I have problems on a 42" screen over hdmi ... VGA works (as it works-not very well). On hdmi, it tries to show image for a blink, and then falls to black ... I think a EDID problem to... Are somebody familiar with setting a LCD screen properly in 9.04? Vide4o is intel ... g45
Thanks

Not sure this is an issue with the EDID, sounds more like a driver issue.

---

