---
title: "15.10 - Bad performance, even with a SSD?"
date: 2016-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by k3wkie on 2016-02-03
Hey guys,

first off: I'm not on my Ubuntu machine at the moment - So I can not test and provide any logs (Will do later, when I'm back home).

I migrated from Windows10 to Ubuntu. I used Linux already in the past and distrohopped from Arch, to Fedora, to Debian and what not.

Now, I was thinking about Ubuntu, because I want and need a stable and reliable System with a great Software repo.

But, I noticed something: Slower boot, slower start up for Chromium/Chrome and the System overall dont feel as fast as my latest Windows install.


First my specs:


[LIST]
[*]MSI Laptop
[*]Intel Core i7-3610QM
[*]8GB RAM
[*]Intel HD Graphics 4000
[*]GeForce GTX 670M
[*]Samsung 850 Pro SSD (256GB)
[*]WD 1TB HDD
[/LIST]

My partitions follows:

SSD:

[LIST]
[*]30GB /
[*]Remaining space /home
[/LIST]

HDD:
[LIST]
[*]All the space for storage (Such as backups, symlinked for Downloads, Documents, Pictures, etc - To reduce space for such files)
[/LIST]

In my fstab i only added "noatime", I didn't add "discard", since I added fstrim as a daily cron.

What I can say, the Read/Write values are almost identical with the Windows ones (The difference is only 10-20MB/s - Which is totally fine for me).

But what bugs me, is the noticable worse performance when opening Programs. In Windows it simply felt faster and more smooth. 

What I suspect: Optimus. Since I have a Hybrid card, which we know, can be a pain, I assume this slows me down a bit here. I followed this one here: [http://askubuntu.com/a/713832](http://askubuntu.com/a/713832)
The result is: Only the nvidia card is running (I have a little LED Indicator at my power-button on the Laptop. White = Intel card, Orange = nVidia card), because after doing this I see the indicator is orange all the time.

When I did this: [http://askubuntu.com/a/690168](http://askubuntu.com/a/690168) I couldnt even change the Monitor position (Having a external monitor plugged in via VGA), tried with the built-in display setting, aswell as with "arandr" (Can't remember the exact error message, meh..). Only the default settings worked, which was: External Monitor right of Laptop monitor, but actually my external is positioned Left of my Laptop.


So, is there a slight chance I can run Ubuntu 15.10 with optimus and a good performance? Since i also going to do some Malware research and Pentesting in various Virtual Machines, so I hardly need the performance.

If you need any outputs etc. Let me know, will post them later as soon as I'm at my Ubuntu machine.


Thank you very much guys.

EDIT:

I have to add: I don't mind if I have to use any older driver version or something, I just want the full potential of my System and if I get it with older drivers, it is ok.

---

