---
title: "11.04: Screen glitches after closing and opening laptop"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sephiriz on 2011-05-08
Hey guys, since I've upgraded to 11.04 on my Dell Latitude E6400, every time I close the lid and open it again, Ubuntu fires up but the screen itself is totally messed up, it's just random patterns all over the screen.  The laptop is locked, so I can type in my password, hit enter, and once I'm logged in again the screen is perfectly fine, so the system itself works, only the display is the problem.

If anyone could help, I'd greatly appreciate it.  Obviously this isn't a serious problem, but I'd love to know what the problem is.

Here's a pic of what I see when I open up the lid.

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/AvA6t.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Sephiriz on 2011-05-31
No takers? Ubuntu is working perfectly minus this one issue, I never experienced it until I upgraded to 11.04.  Help is greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-31
No idea. Best bet would be to roll back to 10.10 for now, and until they can work all the bugs out.  Otherwise, hang tight to see if anyone can help you.

Here is a nice guide to help with 10.10:

[http://cinderbox.net/2010/12/23/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-10-10-aka-maverick-meerkat/](http://cinderbox.net/2010/12/23/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-10-10-aka-maverick-meerkat/)

:popcorn:

---

### Post by Sephiriz on 2011-05-31
I appreciate the quick response, thank you. The problem really isn't so debilitating that I feel a need to go back to an earlier distro, everything is working great minus this one issue, and I would love to fix it so I can convince my fiance that Ubuntu is a legitimate alternative to Windows haha.:p

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-31
Have you checked "Additional Drivers" to see if you need to install any proprietary video drivers for your laptop?

---

### Post by Sephiriz on 2011-06-01
Thank you for the advice, I installed the recommended Nvidia accelerated graphics driver, and it seems to have fixed things somewhat.  My screen is now legible upon opening the lid again.  What's curious is that Ubuntu is telling me the driver is not currently in use, but hey, I'm not gonna complain with these results.  Thank you!

---

