---
title: "12.10 making my laptop CPU running at 70C-80C"
date: 2012-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bluestring on 2012-10-20
After doing a clean upgrade to Ubuntu 12.10, my CPU temps has risen up to 70C and 80C when running on idle. This is when there is no new programs installed, except the cpu temperature monitor. I realized that my computer was running hot because of the amount of heat that the fan was blowing out. I have no switched back to 12.04 and everything is running as normal as before. My temps are now between 50C-60C. I have an HP dm4-3050us. I'm just wondering if anyone else have a problem similar to this when they upgraded to 12.10.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-10-20
A lot of people seem to have problems with their graphics card, in particular the proprietary graphics drivers. I don't know your hardware specs, but if you have been running proprietary graphics drivers on 12.04, there may have gone something wrong during the upgrade. The power management of the open source drivers doesn't match that of the proprietary drivers, which may be a reason for overheating.
It is difficult to diagnose since you are no longer running 12.10, but another reason may be that applications place a higher demand on  the CPU.
I am running Xubuntu 12.10 and don't have a problem with overheating, but Xubuntu is very different from Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-10-20
I've read that the proprietary AMD drivers won't work on 12.10 -- which is unfortunate because there is nothing in the Release Notes to warn folks about this.  Just seeing thread after thread after thread from such folks.

If you're running an AMD chipset, currently, there is nothing you can do to fix this.

Yet ANOTHER reason to NOT upgrade to a new Ubuntu version as soon as it comes out.

---

### Post by bluestring on 2012-10-20
My laptop uses an Intel CPU that has an integrated Intel video card. I haven't heard anyone with problems with Intel.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-10-20
If you have an Intel CPU, most of the topics in this article can probably be applied to your installation:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/PowerManagement/PowerSavingTweaks](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/PowerManagement/PowerSavingTweaks)

---

### Post by HungerGalaxy on 2012-10-26
I installed 12.10 on my Intel/AMD machine (Samsung Series 7 14") and used vgaswitcheroo to disable the graphics card. Additionally I have Jupiter and cpufreq installed. Got my temp down from 70-80 to 60 and almost doubled my battery life :)

[EDIT] Just read your post more thoroughly, thought you said it was a fresh install. However, if you don't do much graphics-intensive work you may want to try disabling your graphics card anyway

---

