---
title: "10.04 buttons"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2010-05-04
i dont like how the 'x' and the minimize and the resize buttons have shifted to the left... how do i change it back to the right?
(without downgrade hopefully)

---

### Post by DomesDKG on 2010-05-04
"You can use gconf-editor to easily move the buttons to the "standard" location. Here's how:

Alt+F2

Code:
gconf-editor
On the left hand side go to apps, metacity, general. On the right hand window find "button_layout." Right click that and choose "Edit Key"

copy and paste this in the highlighted field:

Code:
menu:minimize,maximize,close
Click ok, and your buttons should be where they're supposed to be. The placement of the ":" is the key to this whole thing. Mess around with it if you want something different."

---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2010-05-04
got it
thx

---

### Post by DomesDKG on 2010-05-04
It would seem that the solution I gave you is being discouraged, the post in the FAQ gives this solution instead, and a quick explanation of why:

Minimize, Maximize and Close button placement.
A decision has been taken to move the placement to the left. Mark Shuttleworth explained that this was because "something" is going to be placed in the right hand area in the next release. Moving the buttons now would help enable this change.
[[Update ]http://www.markshuttleworth.com/archives/333

The buttons are in the old location on all default themes apart from Ambiance,Radiance and Dust, If you still want the Ambiance ,Radiance or Dust theme but with buttons on the right, choose one of those other themes and use the Customize button to achieve what you want. e.g.
1. System > Preferences > Appearance
2. Select the theme icon "New Wave"
3. Click the button "Customize.."
4. Select tab "Controls" and select "Ambiance"
5. Select tab "Window border" and select "Ambiance"
6. Select tab "Icons" and scroll down and select "Ubuntu-mono-dark"
7. Select "Save Theme" to your choice.
Using gconf-editor is not the right approach as this could bork future themes. This change makes it easier for themes to do interesting things with window borders. Unfortunately, if the wrong approach spreads, they won't be able to do that.

---

### Post by sille777 on 2010-05-04
It would appear that I have followed a command line version of the now NON-Recommended way to move the buttons to the right.  

What should be done to reverse what I have done so its back to the default (left side) and I dont run the risk of "borking" future themes?

Thanks!

---

### Post by flyingsliverfin on 2010-05-04
k undid ur gconf editor way

whats gconf used for?
is there other stuff i can do with it?

---

### Post by JigglyWiggly_ on 2010-05-04
No the idiots who made the change, didn't realize THAT PEOPLE WILL NEVER GET USED TO IT.

Windows users switching over to here? Their life will be miserable.
Every other kde, and gnome, fluxbox, based distro will be like wtf.

They cannot change something like this, gconf change is the only way :P
And I don't see why they can't make that new feature on the left side.

---

### Post by BjBlaster on 2010-06-04
You're right. I use both windblows at work and 10.04 at home. There is nothing worse than changing my automatic "close" position for windows that are open when using a computer.

As long as we can still move them around using different themes, then all will be well :)

---

### Post by Darkness Des on 2010-06-04
I used Ubuntu Tweak at first to move my buttons back, but I decided just to live with them on the left anyways. I got used to it in under 5 minutes, and I only reboot into Windows every few weaks when I get a craving for Team Fortress 2, which is being ported to Linux and will be done by the end of this summer. So honestly, I don't see why this causes so much debate. I can understand a few people complaining of it, but it gives me no trouble switching between the two positions. Coming from me, the world's most uncoordinated human being, that's pretty sad.

---

### Post by sites on 2010-06-04
> **JigglyWiggly_ said:**
> No the idiots who made the change, didn't realize THAT PEOPLE WILL NEVER GET USED TO IT.

Windows users switching over to here? Their life will be miserable.
Every other kde, and gnome, fluxbox, based distro will be like wtf.

They cannot change something like this, gconf change is the only way :P
And I don't see why they can't make that new feature on the left side.

A second the sentiment.  Even though i use Macs and don't have a problem with them being on the left i still think this was an unnecessary change.

---

