---
title: "12.04 automatic Update Manager in Unity bar will not open"
date: 2013-01-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by efflandt on 2013-01-19
I don't know if this is a common problem or if people just ignore it. I could not find anything about this in a forum search, although, I remember seeing something about it long ago, probably about the time 12.04 was released.

This has been sort of happening since at least Ubuntu 11.10, but has been worse it 12.04.  When Update Manager automatically comes up in the Unity bar, more often than not I cannot open it into a window to see what updates it found, to tell if I would need to reboot afterwards.  So I have to close it in the Unity bar and open Update Manager from Dash to get an Update Manager window.

I run 64-bit 12.04 from sda4, just stashed its grub on that partition, and currently boot everything from 64-bit 11.10's grub on sdb.  So I need to boot into 11.10 to update grub if 12.04 updates kernel, etc.  In a pinch I could mark sda4 as boot partition and boot from sda (Windows mbr).

So my question is whether Update Manager in the Unity bar being unable to open a window is a well known problem and if there is a fix?  At least in 11.10 I could get an Update Manager window to open by switching to a different workspace, but that rarely works in 12.04. I have not done any customization of the Unity desktop, it is all standard defaults.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-01-20
Sometimes just giving update-manager a kick start will fix it.  Try ..

```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

