---
title: "9.10 Netboox Remix - No Classic Desktop?"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dmillerct on 2009-10-30
I have been using UNR for a while now and Jaunty had an application in the repos called "desktop-switcher" that let you switch between the default interface in UNR and the "Classic Desktop" interface.

It appears that desktop-switcher is not in the repos. I get the following error:

```
Package desktop-switcher is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or is only available from another source
E; Package desktop-switcher has no installation candidate
```

So my question is how do I get desktop switcher? OR how else can I enable the "classic desktop" on UNR 9.10?

---

### Post by harcoal on 2009-10-30
I'm having the same problem on 9.10.  From what I can tell so far the desktop-switcher package has been removed intentionally from Karmic because it was too unstable and kept messing up users' desktops.

Here's the skinny:
> 
desktop-switcher has some nasty bugs in the karmic version and we'd like to drop it.
 (Looking at:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/desktop-switcher](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/desktop-switcher)
should be enough to believe in this :-)
 The architecture/design of desktop-switcher of trying to update the live configuration (GConf settings and others) makes it really fragile and error prone; desktop-switcher also takes some backups of gconf settings in ~/ and attempts to restore them, which creates more code pathes and potential problems. It's easy to end up in a completely broken setup with some minutes of playing.
 desktop-switcher was intended to help hardy UNR users to disable clutter/opengl when their setup didn't support that nicely. Nowadays, we except these to just work, so it's kind of not required.
 Finally, desktop-switcher duplicates the settings from ubuntu-netbook-remix-default-settings, so we need to update two places when we change them,
 In karmic+1, we'd like to implement this feature by having an UNR session on the GDM screen along GNOME, that would be a much more solid and clean design. This would also solve the duplication.
 So to sum up, we'd like to unseed desktpo-switcher in karmic's UNR and revisit this differently in lucid. We will still attempt to fix top issues if time and complexity of the fixes permit.

From: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unr-meta/+bug/443298](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unr-meta/+bug/443298)I tried a few work arounds like disabling the netbook-launcher program at startup but it just re-enabled itself at next boot.

I love UNR but always switch to classic desktop, is there a workaround to get the classic desktop on 9.10?  

I'm considering installing the regular edition of Ubuntu on my Netbook but I suspect UNR has a lot of tweaks and optimizations aimed at netbooks so perhaps this isn't such a good idea?  Can anyone shed any light on this?

---

### Post by celica6 on 2009-11-18
Yeah, desktop-switcher doesn't work in Karmic (yet).  The easiest thing to do is go to terminal, type "gconf-editor"
when the editor pops up, go to apps -> nautilus -> preferences.  In the right panel, scroll down to show_desktop and check the box.  This will override the netbook desktop and give you the classic desktop.  Just repeat the steps and uncheck the box to get back to the UNR interface.

---

### Post by chouse626 on 2009-11-23
Against my better judgment I followed your suggestion of gconf-editor and editing the show desktop...it worked...

however how the heck do I control my computer now?  the ubuntu icon doesn't bring down any sort of drop down menu for me to pick through my apps.

Am I missing something?  I'm lost.  As it stands now I have Firefox open and can't even begin to open anything else.

---

### Post by chouse626 on 2009-11-23
Nevermind a restart corrects the issue.

---

### Post by Feenix3k on 2009-11-30
I did this and rebooted I have no menuees at all. I am running remix inside of widows and tha may be the diffrence

---

### Post by tgyorgyi on 2009-12-08
> I'm considering installing the regular edition of Ubuntu on my Netbook but I suspect UNR has a lot of tweaks and optimizations aimed at netbooks so perhaps this isn't such a good idea?  Can anyone shed any light on this?

I have an HP Mini 2140, and never considered the netbook remix, used Ubuntu Intrepid and now Karmic. It works well for my purposes. There are a few windows which cannot be resized and a small part is out of the screen (like the print box of Adobe Reader), but since in Linux you can "grab" boxes in any spot if you press Alt and left mouse button, this is not such a big problem in my case.

---

### Post by celica6 on 2009-12-10
I probably should have mentioned in my last post that you will need to add the menu bar applet (right click on your panel, "Add to Panel", scroll down and select Menu Bar).  You can do this before or after you change gconf-editor.

---

### Post by sliketymo on 2009-12-10
> **dmillerct said:**
> I have been using UNR for a while now and Jaunty had an application in the repos called "desktop-switcher" that let you switch between the default interface in UNR and the "Classic Desktop" interface.

It appears that desktop-switcher is not in the repos. I get the following error:

```
Package desktop-switcher is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or is only available from another source
E; Package desktop-switcher has no installation candidate
```So my question is how do I get desktop switcher? OR how else can I enable the "classic desktop" on UNR 9.10?

 [http://www.liliputing.com/2009/02/how-to-quickly-switch-ubuntu-netbook-remix-interface-on-and-](http://www.liliputing.com/2009/02/how-to-quickly-switch-ubuntu-netbook-remix-interface-on-and-)

---

### Post by rykel on 2009-12-16
I am keen on the answer too, because right now, I am stuck with an interface that looks like Classic Desktop... except that there is no "Desktop"!

What I mean is, the "desktop" has no icons, and nothing can be dragged there. It is like an invisible Netbook Launcher is actually running, and that I am not really back in GNOME classic desktop yet.

---

### Post by witwicki on 2009-12-21
Although desktop-switcher is not officially supported on Ubuntu 9.10, you can still install the (buggy) development version.  Try downloading the .deb file from here:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/i386/desktop-switcher/0.5.8-0ubuntu2](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/karmic/i386/desktop-switcher/0.5.8-0ubuntu2)

After installation, access the program under System->Preferences->"Switch Desktop Mode".

Let me know if that doesn't work for some reason.

Note: It seems that most of the bugs associated with this application involve switching back and forth between the two modes.  Personally, I just switched to "Classic Desktop" mode and never switched back... and did not experience any problems.

---

