---
title: "Transparent windows?"
date: 2009-01-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Magical Mike on 2009-01-07
I have a few questions.
1. My video card drive is old and crapy so everytime I try to update teh driver, I restart, and the login screen is black and I see the message
"Out of range 75.1KHZ/60HZ
then I have to reinstal Ubuntu... :(  Why is this, and how can I fix it?

2. When I can log in (ie from not updateing my video driver)
then after I enter myusername and password, it takes me back to the log in page..
And I have to try to run it on the sesion with gnome. Dose the same thing, then the only time it works is if I run it in "Failsafe Gnome"
Anyway to work that out?

3. Dose anyoen know of a good theme, that the windows are somewhat translucent? and blackish tinted? thanks!!

Magical Mike

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-01-07
In older Ubuntu's sudo "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" would do this, but I don't know how to do it in newer ones (8.04/8.10)

---

### Post by damis648 on 2009-01-07
> **RealG187 said:**
> In older Ubuntu's sudo "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" would do this, but I don't know how to do it in newer ones (8.04/8.10)

That's
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
and it still works. As for the OP, could you please tell us what model Video card you have?

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-01-08
The command I posted was what I was taught and has worked for me in the past...

I actually have my IBM machine with Ubuntu make my HDTV go out of range when the bootsplash is up, but once it gets to the login screen all is fine...

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2009-01-08
> **RealG187 said:**
> The command I posted was what I was taught and has worked for me in the past...

I actually have my IBM machine with Ubuntu **make my HDTV go out of range** when the bootsplash is up, but once it gets to the login screen all is fine...

:confused:

---

### Post by amauk on 2009-01-08
Magical Mike,
Can you run
```
lshw -class display
```

This will show you what graphics card you have
without knowing exactly what you have, no-one can really help you

---

### Post by Magical Mike on 2009-01-08
> michael@michael-desktop:~$ lshw -class display
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: RS480 [Radeon Xpress 200G Series]
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 5
       bus info: pci@0000:01:05.0
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=64 mingnt=8
michael@michael-desktop:~$ 


Ill wait to run the other commands till someone reads this!

 :D

---

### Post by amauk on 2009-01-08
great,
now can you just confirm which version of Ubuntu you're using

you can check in system > admin > system monitor
on the first tab, there's a line starting with "Release...."

also, can you post your xorg config file

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Magical Mike on 2009-01-08
Ubuntu 8.04 hardy


> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
EndSection 

yep

---

### Post by amauk on 2009-01-08
Try adding these lines to your xorg.conf
and trying the driver again
```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
[B]HorizSync 60-90.0
VertRefresh 30-70.0[/B]
EndSection
```

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-01-09
> **steveneddy said:**
> :confused:

It's LCD, I think LCDs are bad for going out of range and they don't need high refresh ratee.

But it's only out of range for the boot splash which doesn't impair my ability to use the computer...

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2009-01-10
I think the database deleted my post, it says I am the last poster here, but my post is not here

---

