---
title: "Generic Error Message after booting to desktop..."
date: 2019-11-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mclark2145 on 2019-11-19
Hey Folks...

I set up a fresh install of Ubuntu 18.04.3 LTS (blew away contents previously on the SSD using gparted, let the installer create brand new partitions during the OS installation), installed a number of pretty ordinary programs via Ubuntu's repositories, and I'm getting the following error dialog within about 5 minutes of getting to the desktop.

[IMG]https://i.imgur.com/AQnwWSR.png[/IMG]

When I click on "Report problem..." it doesn't seem to do anything. I certainly don't get any further information or anything out of this.

Also, there doesn't seem to be any further consequence. Everything works correctly on the system, I've no issues with any of my external storage media, WiFi works just fine, etc., etc.

So, here's my question: Is there a way to try and track down what's generating the error message?

Thanks so much in advance!

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-11-19
The crash reports generally get put in /var/crash. You could have a look there to see what's causing the issue.

Some applications, or applications running as some users, might not be able to create files in that location, depending on permissions, so there might not be anything there even after an application has crashed.

---

### Post by sdsurfer on 2019-11-20
This sounds a lot like this unanswered thread. [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2425037](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2425037)

---

### Post by mclark2145 on 2019-11-20
Ok, so I looked in /var/crash and see a file I can't open but which clearly was generated by hplip.

Y'know, it's a funny thing. The reason I'm running 18.04.3 instead of 19.10 is that I simply could not ever get hplip to work right, and eventually things because so hosed that I had little choice but to nuke-n-pave. I decided to try 18.04 to see if things were better behaved, and they are, but things are obviously not quite correct. :(

I had been running LM up until a few days ago, and as far as hplip was concerned, it worked flawlessly. Moreover, it was never necessary to do anything through the terminal to get hplip set up or to install my printer.

Of course, I had to switch to something else because, after several years straight of no problems, I suddenly started having problems with my WiFi.

---

### Post by mclark2145 on 2019-11-22
After a few days of frustration futzing around with this, I have found not so much a "solution" as a way not to cause the problem to happen in the first place.

It is my belief that installing the rest of the hplip software installs something which causes the problem.

Ultimately, I nuke-n-paved the system, this time going back to 19.10 just to see, and after attaching the printer and letting the OS do the basic installation and setup, I then issued ```
hp-plugin -i
``` and set up the plugin without installing any other hplip software. Multiple reboots later, no more error message.

If anything else rears its ugly head, I'll post about it.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-11-22
Fingers crossed that the problem stays away for you.

---

