---
title: "14.04 can't see multiple monitors in VNC"
date: 2014-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by HiRez_L on 2014-09-15
So, here is my setup:
Lubuntu 14.04 64 bit, with an NVidia GeForce 8400, running the proprietary 340 driver from NVidia.  I am running vino-server for display 0, and tightvncserver for display 1.  I have two monitors.  I am trying to connect from a remote windows client and see both monitors.  I have tried using Ultr@VNC, TightVNC, and RealVNC viewers on the windows side.  No matter which client I use, and no matter if I connect to display 0 or display 1, I only see my right monitor, and can find no way to switch to the other one.  Even weirder, applications running on the left monitor don't show up on the lxpanel in VNC, although when I am in front of the Lubuntu system they show up just fine.  I have googled all over about this, and found no solution, has anyone else encountered this?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-09-15
It doesn't work the way you think it does. This is by design.  **Remote connections have ZERO to do with monitors or GPUs on the system.** There is no way to mirror the existing desktop programs into a VNC display ... well not without lots and lots of effort using some screen sharing method.

I use x2go (about 3x faster than RDP/VNC and includes ssh tunneling for security) as a remote desktop. The virtual display size can be selected to be almost anything.  The real limit is who large is the physical machine you sit at when connecting to the remote system.

With rdesktop ... there are command line parameters which control the desktop size ... 
```

RES="1280x738"
rdesktop  -u thefu -g $RES remote-windows-on-LAN-machine
```

Sorry that I don't use VNC anymore. Hope that makes sense. I suspect the VNC client should have something similar. RTFM.

---

### Post by HiRez_L on 2014-09-15
It doesn't make sense . . . because I can see whatever is on the right monitor in my vnc session, but I can see nothing that is in the left monitor, so it seems like a config or setting somewhere is choosing which monitor it will display.  In other words, it isn't like a new session, it shows me my existing session, just half of it.

---

