---
title: "11.10 automount usb broken"
date: 2011-11-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BAK0z on 2011-11-21
Hello,

I am experiencing the same problem. I am able to see the drives in fdisk and mount them manually but they refuse to automount. I suspect the problem may be as a result of me editing the /etc/fstab file as per [instructions here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountWindowsSharesPermanently") but I don't know enough to troubleshoot the issue.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-11-21
Hi, I've moved your post into its own thread because I suspect the OP of the original one had a different problem from yours, and it's usually best to start your own thread.

The link you posted doesn't appear to be relevant to your issue - if you are trying to mount usb drives. Post the terminal output of:

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

Also - have you installed any apps that purportedly "help" with usb mounting. Examples: usbmount, mountmanager?

---

### Post by BAK0z on 2011-11-22
Hi Coffeecat,
Thankyou for your efforts in splitting my post. Embarrassingly for me, powering on the machine this morning and my issue is gone. It seemed that my notebook required just that one more restart to resolve its problems - the 2-3 that I gave it yesterday obviously weren't enough. I apologise for wasting your time.

For posterity's sake - I had installed no programs that would affect USB Mounting. The drives (I tried multiple USB drives) were all appearing in dmesg as expected, I was able to mount them manually without issue. I'm at a loss as to what the actual problem was as I did try rebooting several times (as well as commenting out the lines I added to the default /etc/fstab in case that was the issue).

Thanks again!

---

