---
title: "9.10 doesn't show up Windows partion"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sabutay on 2009-11-08
Hi,

There is a problem that i could not solve. First of all my fdisk -l output is :

```
Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00350035

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       12809   102884352    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           12809       30401   141310625+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           12809       18035    41980730   83  Linux
/dev/sda6           18036       30401    99329863+  83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x007e007e

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1        6086    48885763+  83  Linux
/dev/sdb2            6087       30401   195310237+   5  Extended
/dev/sdb5            6087        6329     1951866   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdb6            6330       30401   193358308+  83  Linux

```

Ubuntu is installed on the partition /dev/sdb1. My concern is that, the partition /dev/sda1 is a Windows XP partition. But it is not accessible on my system. I look at the fstab, it's like:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sdb1 during installation
UUID=74b12278-e466-47ff-aa91-5c7d9b0c8425 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /mnt/yedek2 was on /dev/sdb6 during installation
UUID=38e0325d-7465-4f90-af72-14326915eb5e /mnt/yedek2     ext4    defaults        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sdb5 during installation
UUID=70625308-5fdd-4499-b324-bad9716a26d9 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

```

As you see normally Ubuntu 9.10 should automatically add the Windows partition. But it doesn't. 

Because of this i can't see my partition not in the Grub list at the startup. Only my two Linux distro's are showing up. An update-grub command gives me:

```
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic-pae
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic-pae
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Arch on /dev/sda5
done

```

I can add manually the windows partition in the Fstab, but i don't want to do in this way. Ubuntu should do that automatically. 

What should i do to fix the Grub and partition error ?

Thanks in advance
Regards

---

### Post by Sabutay on 2009-11-09
Is there nobody who has any clue ?

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-09
I dunno if I have missed the point or not here, but can you access your Windows partition from the Places menu at the top?  If so, it means that it doesn't auto-mount and that can be fixed easily by adding the line to fstab manually (as you said) or by installing ntfs-config from the repos.  

But if your issue is with Windows not being shown in the grub list at startup, it might be useful to know if you have upgraded to Karmic from Jaunty or whether this is a fresh install.  For example, if this is an upgrade could you see Windows in grub before and now it has gone?  And what version of grub you're using?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-09
There are two matters here: fstab and grub. Let's take them one at a time.

Are you sure that the Ubuntu installer automatically adds an /etc/fstab entry for a Windows C: partition? I'm not quarreling with you - it's just that I haven't done an install using the guided option for years. Does the guided option add an entry to fstab? I always use the 'manual' option at the partitioning stage, and I can tell you definitely that if you don't specify mount points for your NTFS partition(s), you  won't get them added to fstab.

Anyway, do you really want the Windows C: partition mounted every time you boot up? Can't you access it from the Places menu when and if you need to? It takes moments to mount a NTFS partition from the Places menu.

**Grub**: I'm still a bit shaky about grub2 that comes with 9.10. Still on the steep bit of the learning curve, so I don't know why Windows wasn't picked up on install. There have been some threads about missing grub2 menu entries for Windows 7, but I haven't seen any that concern XP.

But be that as it may, it's even odder that Windows isn't added to the grub menu when you run update-grub. Check to see that you've got the file /etc/grub.d/30_os_prober. Make sure that it is executable. A useful link about grub2 is here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-09
I *believe*, although I am not certain as I'm very shaky on Grub and Grub2 issues in particular, but I had a check for grub stuff earlier on and I* believe* that the command for grub 2 is actually

```

update-grub2

```

I am quite happy if I am wrong, but this page of the manual suggests that update-grub2 maybe the command: [http://grub.enbug.org/Manual](http://grub.enbug.org/Manual)  But as I say, I've no real idea and so I'm probably wrong. =P 


But either way, if he upgraded from Jaunty to Karmic, then he should still be on the legacy version of grub - at least, I am!

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2009-11-09
> **Lateralis said:**
> I* believe* that the command for grub 2 is actually

```

update-grub2

```

Tbh, I wasn't sure so I've just had a rummage around in /usr/sbin here in Karmic. :) There are two shell-scripts, update-grub and update-grub2. The update-grub script is:

```
!/bin/sh -e
exec grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg "$@"
```...which looks pretty well grub2-ish to me. And update-grub2:

```
#!/bin/sh -e
exec update-grub "$@"
```So it looks as though you can run either. And, indeed, I've just found in the thread I linked before:

> To update the GRUB 2 menu, the command *sudo update-grub* will be used throughout this guide. *update-grub* actually runs the command *"grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg"* This runs several scripts and incorporates the results into */boot/grub/grub.cfg* which detemines what is seen on the screen during boot. Since the GRUB 2 developers do not intend to remove the *update-grub* 'stub', it will be used for simplicity and ease of use.> **Lateralis said:**
> But either way, if he upgraded from Jaunty to Karmic, then he should still be on the legacy version of grub - at least, I am!

Good point. I didn't think of that when I posted before.

---

### Post by Lateralis on 2009-11-09
Yeah I had a rummage around on here too to look for the update-grub2 script, but don't have that as I don't have any part of grub2 on my system.  But if it looks like update-grub will work then I guess my comment was redundant.  As I thought it would be, but I just want to clarify the point so I know for myself. =)  

I also did have a quick read through the link you provided in your previous post, but again I just wanted clarification; for myself more than anything else!  :P

---

### Post by Sabutay on 2009-11-11
No, I can't access my Windows partition from the Places menu. From the Fdisk -l output i cane see that my partition is recognized. 

I've tried to add manually, like this:
```

/dev/sda1 	/mnt/windows 		ntfs-3g users,uid=1000,gid=100,umask=007 0 0 

```

But it gaves me error when it try to mount it:

```
fatih@fatih-ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /mnt/windows/
Unexpected clusters per mft record (-1).
Failed to mount '/dev/sda1': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sda1' doesn't seem to have a valid NTFS.
Maybe the wrong device is used? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/sda, not /dev/sda1)? Or the other way around?
```

---

