---
title: "How to get rid of middle-click paste (Without disabling or remapping the middle btn)"
date: 2009-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nosferax on 2009-11-23
Hey,

I have been annoyed by this behaviour more than one time and have tried finding a solution more than once as well, but I always just find the classical : "Just edit your xorg.conf and re-map the middle mouse button to something else, like button #494 which is never used" but I like the middle button, it's very useful to me... However, I don't enjoy it when it pastes random quips of text into the code I am browsing (my mouse has a sensible middle button, so just scrolling the wheel is enough to activate it sometimes)

Does anyone here have a solution, or has the Ubuntu team implemented a way to disable this since the last time I checked ?

thanks a lot,
JC

---

### Post by Nosferax on 2009-11-26
That's probably the single most annoying thing about ubuntu for me right now... 



Do you guys know where does this middle-button paste behaviour come from ? Is it X or Gnome ? 


It wouldn't annoy me this bad if I didn't paste random snippets of text 'every' time I scroll up-down a document/terminal (you can imagine the terminal is much worse).

thanks in advance,
JC

---

### Post by Nosferax on 2010-03-18
Has anyone got any news on this topic ? I would be glad to get rid of that annoying behavior :)

---

### Post by Bradtek on 2010-03-18
> It wouldn't annoy me this bad if I didn't paste random snippets of text 'every' time I scroll up-down a document/terminal

Why do you need to press the wheel so hard to scroll ?

I don't recall ever randomly pasting anything with several different
Linux / Ubuntu releases

---

### Post by TehWan on 2010-04-01
I also would like to know how to disable this feature. I like to use middle-click as a transmit key in voice chat programs, and when I'm coding it's really annoying to either have to lose the focus to transmit, or undo the changes because it pasted some code at a random location.

No matter what kind of mouse we're using or what we're doing with it, we'd just like to know how to disable the feature that copies text on selection and pastes it on middle-click.

Thank you,
-= TehWan =-

Edit: I believe this would be the selection buffer, from X. Sadly, not a lot of information can be found on how to disable. People seem proud of having this Linux-only feature.
Edit2: Apparently, Klipper on KDE allows you to disable the selection buffer. Unless this is only the selection buffer of Klipper and not of X.

---

### Post by UltraZone on 2010-04-02
It sounds like the problem lies with your mouse, sorry but it does not make much sense to reprogram software to take care of issues with worn out hardware.  The simplest solution is to buy a new mouse whose middle click mechanism hasn't gone to ***.  That, or alternatively when you highlight something (such as when you want to copy it to the clipboard) immediately un-highlight it by clicking somewhere on the same window.  The middle-click clipboard is different that the traditional ctrl+c clipboard, so if you clear the highlighted text, the middle-click clipboard also gets cleared and won't paste anything if you middle click.

I have to ask, does this mouse you got also have a ball in it?  If so, then please definitely buy a new optical mouse (~$20).

Also another idea: decaf. :-s

---

### Post by SnickerSnack on 2010-04-02
I also would like to disable the copy-paste feature of the middle click.  I use a thinkpad, so the middle mouse button emulates a scroll wheel (hold middle click and push the pointer), and I often get text pasted when I don't want it to, but since I'm scrolling, I don't see it until later.  Very annoying.

Here's an idea i haven't tried: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3030645&postcount=8](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=3030645&postcount=8), though he doesn't say exactly what those changes do.

Another idea: [http://jaredrobinson.com/blog/howto-disable-middle-mouse-paste-in-linux/](http://jaredrobinson.com/blog/howto-disable-middle-mouse-paste-in-linux/).  I haven't tried that either, I'm just googling for it.

----> This thread looks promising: [http://jaredrobinson.com/blog/howto-disable-middle-mouse-paste-in-linux/](http://jaredrobinson.com/blog/howto-disable-middle-mouse-paste-in-linux/).  It appears to disable paste on middle click, but lets left+right paste.

Here's my current xorg.conf

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

# The following lines were added for the stylus.

Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier    "Default Layout"
  Screen        "Default Screen"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#  InputDevice   "stylus"  "SendCoreEvents"
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#  InputDevice   "eraser"  "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#  Driver        "wacom"
#  Identifier    "stylus"
#  Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY?
##  Option        "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"      # SERIAL ONLY
#  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
#  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"           # Tablet PC ONLY
#  Option        "USB"           "on"               # USB ONLY don't need?
#EndSection

# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#  Driver        "wacom"
#  Identifier    "eraser"
#  Option        "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom" # USB ONLY?
##  Option        "Device"        "/dev/ttyS0"      # SERIAL ONLY
#  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
#  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"           # Tablet PC ONLY
#  Option        "USB"           "on"               # USB ONLY don't need?
#EndSection

# The preceding lines were added for the stylus.
```

There's nothing there about the mouse, so I'm not sure what needs to be added besides

```
Option	 "ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
Option	 "ButtonMapping" "1 1 3 4 5"
```

---

### Post by Brandel Valico on 2010-04-02
To answer the question you asked instead of simply ignore it and say your nuts. (Which isn't to say I think your not. Since I love this feature)

Go Here 

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input")

Scroll down to the instructions supplied for your version of Ubuntu for disabling the middle mouse button paste.

Sadly it does seem some remapping is required

Enjoy

---

### Post by SnickerSnack on 2010-04-02
> **Brandel Valico said:**
> To answer the question you asked instead of simply ignore it and say your nuts. (Which isn't to say I think your not. Since I love this feature)

Go Here 

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input")

Scroll down to the instructions supplied for your version of Ubuntu for disabling the middle mouse button paste.

Sadly it does seem some remapping is required

Enjoy

That works pretty well.  Paste is disabled and scrolling still works, simple fix too.  However, I'd really prefer to keep the left+right=paste feature.  That would require more though, probably.  It might be possible using the set-button-map tool, but I'll have to test things out to see.

Partly for my own reference, I'm listing the track-point mouse mapping for a x61 tablet:

$ xinput get-button-map "TPPS/2 IBM TrackPoint"
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 

Which are 1=left 2=middle 3=right 4=middle-up 5=middle-down 6=middle-left 7=middle-right.

What I need is this: middle button does not paste, but left+right does.  The middle button scrolling must still work, though.

---

### Post by Brandel Valico on 2010-04-02
Been looking into it some more and this link may help

[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man8/gpm.8.html]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man8/gpm.8.html")

I believe you could start the system up so that highlight copy is disabled. Which would prevent the paste feature from doing anything as the clipboard would be empty

GPM -A[Limit] 

I believe is the area to look into.

You may be able to make a start-up command.


************

Actually it looks like there is an edit line for /etc/profile

I'm not sure but this seems to be the line. Info is in the same area I suggested you look at in the link provided

  >  `case $( /usr/bin/tty ) in
       /dev/tty[0-9]*) /usr/bin/disable-paste ;;
       esac'

To disable the paste

---

### Post by SnickerSnack on 2010-04-02
> **Brandel Valico said:**
> Been looking into it some more and this link may help

[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man8/gpm.8.html]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man8/gpm.8.html")

I believe you could start the system up so that highlight copy is disabled. Which would prevent the paste feature from doing anything as the clipboard would be empty

GPM -A[Limit] 

I believe is the area to look into.

You may be able to make a start-up command.


************

Actually it looks like there is an edit line for /etc/profile

   `case $( /usr/bin/tty ) in
       /dev/tty[0-9]*) /usr/bin/disable-paste ;;
       esac'

To disable the paste

Hmmm, I can get that effect by simply mapping the middle click to a left click.  The problem with either approach is that mouse pasting doesn't work at all, but I'd like to still use left+right for paste.

I'll probably have to edit my xorg.conf, but I'm just not sure how to do it without really screwing things up, right now.

Adding

```
Option	 "ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
Option	 "ButtonMapping" "1 1 3 4 5"
```

to the conf file won't do anything that I can't already do with the set-button-map tool.

What I really need to do is find out how the make the xorg.conf sing.  Then I can get the result I want.

---

### Post by Brandel Valico on 2010-04-02
Well best of luck with it. Sorry I wasn't more help.

---

### Post by SnickerSnack on 2010-04-03
> **Brandel Valico said:**
> Well best of luck with it. Sorry I wasn't more help.

Thanks for trying anyway. :D

---

### Post by Brandel Valico on 2010-04-03
Hopefully if you figure it out you will share it. A Google search shows that there is actually a lot of people who would like to know how to do so.

---

### Post by TehWan on 2010-04-03
The thing that most people do not seem to understand is that I still need that middle-click, and I definitely do NOT want to disable the middle-click. What I want to disable is the selection buffer, or X's default behavior of pasting the selection buffer whenever the middle mouse button is pressed. It is not, IMO, a good thing to force users to use middle-click for this specific behavior. We should have the option to change the mapping, without disabling our middle mouse button, or at least to disable the pasting behavior while keeping our middle mouse button.

Sadly, gpm is not installed by default on Karmic, and I doubt it would do anything since, AFAIK, this has to do with virtual consoles, while the behavior is actually with all applications. I downloaded the source code to try and find the location of that code, so I can provide a patch, but all I found so far are a few memory leaks and code that extends the functionality, but no sign of this functionality so far. I'll keep looking for it.

So please, if you'd like to say that we should get a new mouse or even remap the middle mouse button, this is not what we are asking for and is not really helping us. There is no point in having a middle mouse button if it is going to be remapped to a left click. If, however, you know anything about X and the selection buffer, your help would be appreciated.

I also believe it would be possible to intercept the call and block it, since from what I read, this selection buffer is in the interprocess communication, but this would require to have an application run in-between Gnome and X, or to modify Gnome to disable that behavior, or at least to make it optional and remappable.

---

### Post by Goatrancer on 2010-04-21
I just started having (or just notied) this. In my case it happens when I simultaneously press the left and right buttons (I am using a netbook, acer 1410). My understanding is that this is equivalent to a scroll-wheel click.

What I find really wierd about it is that what gets "pasted" isn't what's on the clipboard... nor is it gets put in if I select "redo".. it's some sort of semi-random selection of something I have typed or selected or deleted recently. It kindof seems to map to "undo" except that it can go across programs (ie something I just deleted in Firefox will get pasted into OpenOffice.) Sometimes it pastes what is on the clipboard. Sometimes it does nothing at all, even if there is something on the clipboard.

Very very odd..

If worse comes to worse I'll just disable the whole thing, but it would be nice to have the option of assigning a useful function to it, if I ever gain the dexterity to avoid accidentally hitting both buttons at the same time.

But I'm mainly curious as to what this function is that it triggers, it doesnt exactly correspond to any that I am aware of..


EDIT: OK I get it, its pasting whatever the last thing I highlighted is. How do I turn of highlight --> copy? That's one feature I doubt I'll ever use..

---

### Post by TehWan on 2010-04-21
> **Goatrancer said:**
> OK I get it, its pasting whatever the last thing I highlighted is. How do I turn of highlight --> copy? That's one feature I doubt I'll ever use..
That's actually what we are trying to find out. It seems it lies deep down in the system and it is not possible to disable it without modifying the code. No luck for us =(

---

### Post by Goatrancer on 2010-04-22
Is this part of Debian or GNOME or something else?

---

### Post by escapast on 2010-12-01
Did anyone find a solution to this problem? It drives me nuts when I use Eclipse under Linux. At the same time I have graphics software which uses the middle mouse button so I don't want to disable it.

There must be some way to remove the clipboard operations from it without mapping it into Nirvana or having to reimplement X11 :)

---

### Post by kbigdelysh on 2011-10-20
I did the same and temporarily the super-annoying problem of middle-mouse pasting was solved but when I rebooted my computer, the same damn behavior came back. What should I do to solve this problem permanently? 

Whenever I'm doing programming, It keeps pasting numbers and variables in different part of my code and makes weird bugs.

By the way, my mouse is  a brand-new mouse.

---

### Post by TehWan on 2011-10-20
I doubt it is possible to disable it through Ubuntu. It is part of the X11 specifications and is a feature. Unless you run a custom version of X11, you're out of luck.
With all of the clipboard bugs in 11.04 (especially with Eclipse and Code::Blocks), the X11 selection buffer is sadly the only thing I can rely on.

Unless someone makes a patched version of X with the selection buffer disabled, which is most likely not happening anytime soon, you better learn to live with it. :(

---

### Post by nonsuperuser on 2011-10-31
One workaround could be to clear the selection clipboard manually using a program like xclip. Then even though middle click still pastes the selection, nothing happens because the selection is empty. That is:
```

#!/bin/bash
while true; do
	xclip -i /dev/null
	sleep 10
done

```
This clears the selection once in 10 seconds.

The downside is that many X programs seem function so that once the selection is cleared, then also the highlighted text is cleared in the program. 
For example: In Lyx, when one highlights a part of a text, this is copied by the X server. When the script above clears the selection, then the highlighted text in Lyx is no longer highlighted.

---

### Post by shevek. on 2012-01-19
Another way: for me, the annoying thing was that it pastes in Firefox (while using gmail, in forms, etc). So I disabled the middle-click paste behaviour just in Firefox, and it works very good:
[http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_configure_the_TrackPoint#Firefox_3_tweaks](http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/How_to_configure_the_TrackPoint#Firefox_3_tweaks)

---

### Post by Elludium_Q-36 on 2012-01-20
I absolutely concur, this is highly annoying!!!

Many mice, old or brand new, have light springs under the scroll-wheel that click the middle button far too easily.

I have a Microsoft intelligent trackball device that I'd rather not discontinue using.  Maybe I can try to expand the coils of the spring or find  replacement parts online.

Either way, we should still be able to disable the feature via a menu:
i.e. in 8.04 -> Menu -> Settings -> Peripherals -> Mouse ...

---

### Post by Marric on 2012-04-01
I like the middle-click paste in some apps and hate it in others, especially using a touchpad.
 Apparently it's only X.Org that can change the setup of the X11 Primary Selection (Clipboard) in order to make a deactivation possible.
Or OS distributions do not provide the possibility to change the settings.
[http://www.jwz.org/doc/x-cut-and-paste.html](http://www.jwz.org/doc/x-cut-and-paste.html)
 Up to now I could not find any suitable workaround and deactivating the button (or the scrolling) in general was not an option for me.
 
 Now I found this amazing app called 'Easystroke Gesture Recognition' which comes with the Ubuntu Repository. [http://sourceforge.net/projects/easystroke/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/easystroke/)
  > Easystroke is a gesture-recognition application for X11. Gestures or strokes are movements that you make with you mouse (or your pen, finger etc.) while holding down a specific mouse button. Easystroke will execute certain actions if it recognizes the stroke; currently easystroke can emulate key presses, execute shell commands, hold down modifiers and emulate a scroll wheel. The program was designed with Tablet PCs in mind and can be used effectively even without access to a keyboard. Easystroke tries to provide an intuitive and efficient user interface, while at the same time being highly configurable and offering many advanced features.It's set up in a minute, really easy to use and accurate.  
 You can use it to deactivate the middle-click in certain apps or by 'Default' and add exceptions,
or you can replace the copied text (Primary Selection) by a blank, so that middle-click paste creates no output. In both cases scrolling still works.
```
sudo apt-get install easystroke  
```I just deactivate/blank the middle-click paste by 'Default' and add some apps like Terminal, Desktop, Browser, Editor as exceptions: 

 When you run the app it will open the first tab 'Actions'.
 Click 'Add Action' (bottom)
 Enter a name for the new action eg 'Gesture 1'
 Choose the Type 'Ignore' to deactivate or choose 'Text' to paste a blank, leave Details empty
 Click 'Record Stroke' and click the mouse middle button
 Click 'Yes' on the safety advise
 Click on the next tab 'Preferences'
 Click 'Add Exception' and your cursor will turn into small cross hairs
 Click the app you want to be excepted from the deactivation/blank paste, repeat for others
On the same tab uncheck 'Show popups' and check 'Autostart easystroke'
Done
 
 It works great for me and hopefully for you too.
 
 Cheers

---

