---
title: "64bit 7.10 livecd making blackscreen"
date: 2008-02-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Svopp on 2008-02-29
Hey,

I have a 32 bit version of ubuntu 7.10 installed. I thought that i would burn out a 64 bit version to improve the 2.0 centrino duo core iv got.
So i downloaded the 7.10, 64bit version of ubuntu and burned it.

But when i boot it, i get black screen after 1 screen after it has loaded the linux kernel. 
it also makes black screen when trying the 'graphic safe' option.

It doesnt make black screen when doing the same.

its a santa rosa core, and the graphics card is a nvidia geforce 8600m gs.

Any help how to make a 64 bit cd that doesnt do blackscreen when i try to load livecd ?

---

### Post by oldb0y on 2008-02-29
Are you sure it's a 64bit processor?
Try this in a terminal, and post your outcome: ```
uname -m
```

---

### Post by Svopp on 2008-02-29
i686

arent duo core allways 64 ? ehm ... maybe tahts why they give vista32bit even to new laptops with duo core ...

---

### Post by oldb0y on 2008-02-29
No, sorry, it has to be Core 2 Duo:P

---

### Post by Svopp on 2008-02-29
i believe when i bought it that it was called a duo 2 core ...

but can you see from the number if the processor would gain any improvement by running 64 instead of 32 ?

---

### Post by oldb0y on 2008-02-29
Well you don't have a 64bit processor, so I don't think you can run the 64bit version of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Svopp on 2008-02-29
i have run vista 64bit before ... but i guess vista 64 CAN run on x86 processors ?
thanks for the information btw :)

---

### Post by Svopp on 2008-02-29
here is a link to my processor core ... clearly a core 2 duo ... but have a look

[http://support.packardbell.com/uk/item/index.php?i=spec_cpu_7424860000&psn=111811300132](http://support.packardbell.com/uk/item/index.php?i=spec_cpu_7424860000&psn=111811300132)

---

### Post by Hamled on 2008-02-29
I am also having this same issue with the Ubuntu 7.10 Desktop Install CD.

My Hardware is the same:
Intel Mobile Core 2 Duo T7250 (Merom) - it has the EM64T extensions so it should run 64bit fine.
NVidia GeForce 8600M GS

This is on a laptop obviously, and my first thought is that it would be a problem with the graphics card rather than the processor.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-02-29
Your processor *is* 64-bit.  The 'uname -m' doesn't tell you the capability of your processor, but rather what kernel you are using.  If you are using 32-bit Ubuntu, it's not going to tell you 64-bit since that's not what kernel you are using.

The problem is not with your processor, but with your video card.  Either install it with the alternate installation CD, or try to force vesa drivers in the boot menu on the Live CD.

Then when you get it installed, try [Envy](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html) to get the latest nvidia drivers that work with your card.

---

### Post by Svopp on 2008-03-01
Ok .. i guess its the graphics drivers...  Im quite new at ubuntu. Do you have any information or tips on how to get the drivers working so i dont get blackscreen during the load?

[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_169.12.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_169.12.html)

i guess it is these drivers i need. but how must they be burned down, and how will i get the install to load them before really starting ?

thanks

---

### Post by Svopp on 2008-03-03
Bump

---

