---
title: "Bad Video Card and/or configuration (dual screen)"
date: 2006-12-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bward1 on 2006-12-29
I have an ati Radeon X800 XL which I am having some trouble with, and I am beginning to think it is a hardware problem.  I use the dual head capability with one monitor using dvi and the other vga.  Occasionally in windows the dvi monitor would have a black horizontal line flicker on and off a few times, but I didn't think much of it because I knew I was going to be reinstalling the operating system.  When I installed Ubuntu I was able to get things working almost the way I wanted with the dual head setup, but I am running into the same black line on the dvi monitor, only it is getting worse.  In windows it was always in one place, now it is doing it much more frequently, with more lines, and it will occasionally flicker the monitor on and off.

My xorg.conf file was generated by the command

aticonfig --initial=dual-head --screen-layout=right

and that seemed to work in that the displays work properly in everything except the flickering phenomenon.

two other things that may help in diagnosing the problem:

1) When I try to go to a TTY from a graphical environment, both screens go black and I dont get a TTY.  Likewise when I do a ctrl-alt-F7 to go back to the graphical environment, nothing happens, so I wind up doing a ctrl-alt-delete to reboot the computer.  I also can't restart gdm or x because nothing comes back up.  The graphical environment seems to be a one time only (per boot) thing.

2) When I start the computer, and it boots into linux, a error message type thing comes up for a brief moment, not long enough for me to read or take note of what it actually says, but through a number of restarts I have managed to decipher something like about pci error cannot allocate ram on ....

I dont know if the TTY problem is just a configuration problem, or if it helps diagnose the problem, but based on this second error and the fact that it doesn't work totally right in windows or linux, I am beginning to think that the hardware ram is going bad.  The fact that the VGA monitor works is really the only hope that I have for the video card.  I have done some research and I couldn't find anyway to test the video ram.

If I need to replace the video card what is a reasonably priced video card in this performance range that is easy to configure in ubuntu.

Thanks in advance for your help in this matter.

---

