---
title: "9.10~google chrome is acting suspicous !!!"
date: 2010-02-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KEE on 2010-02-05
google chrome has removed itself from my pc several times with out my conformation. hacking?????????????????????????????????????

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-02-05
is there a way to show history of events regarding this ?? please and thank you =)

---

### Post by tom.swartz07 on 2010-02-05
> **KEE said:**
> google chrome has removed itself from my pc several times with out my conformation. hacking?????????????????????????????????????

What do you mean 'removed itself'?

I dont think that hackers on your computer would be interested in removing a web browser....

Perhaps the updates failed and left chrome in an inoperable state?

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2010-02-05
Well they don't remove themselves do they?

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-02-05
> **tom.swartz07 said:**
> What do you mean 'removed itself'?

I dont think that hackers on your computer would be interested in removing a web browser....

Perhaps the updates failed and left chrome in an inoperable state?

well it removed itself from awn and my >applications>Internet> google chrome

i just dont have it anymore...=( 

anyway ive injoyed it for a couple of days without issues. only tonight it has removed itself after only installing it seconds before for a second and third time...can i post a history so i can determined what happened??? not sure how to do that thats why im asking

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-02-05
can i request staff opinion here? kinda lost with this too

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-02-05
man, 9.10 is a s***** os

---

### Post by tom.swartz07 on 2010-02-06
> **KEE said:**
> man, 9.10 is a s***** os

Its not the OS thats removing the program. It seems that youre just having problems getting the application to stay in your dock.


Verify that its still installed from your applications menu on the panel (or if you use AWN for everything, its from the AWN Main Menu applet (under internet)


Like I said, when Google Chrome updates, it removes the old version of the binary; the file that actually 'runs' chrome, then installs the newer version (an 'in-place' upgrade, if you will) 

I have had some problems in the past with getting applications to stay on the list while using the trunk version of AWN- What version are you using?

---

### Post by totfit on 2010-02-07
It may be that an update is changing the "link". Look in synaptic and see if it is still installed(most likely it is). Run it by hitting ALT-F2 and enter google. You should see a dropdown box with chrome in the list. Select it and hit enter. It should start up.

---

### Post by tom.swartz07 on 2010-02-07
> **totfit said:**
> It may be that an update is changing the "link". Look in synaptic and see if it is still installed(most likely it is). Run it by hitting ALT-F2 and enter google. You should see a dropdown box with chrome in the list. Select it and hit enter. It should start up.

Thats exactly what Im getting at. The program itself may not have been uninstalled (it might just look that way), the link might be broken from AWN

---

