---
title: "9.10 x64 - Flash still will not work"
date: 2009-12-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Raven2k360 on 2009-12-13
I've tried everything in the Flash thread in the x64 forums, but flash still does not work for me.  Flash worked fine back when I was running Firefox 3.0 and 9.04, but since the upgrade it has stopped working and nothing I do seems to fix the problem.

Does anyone have a 100% definite fix for this?  This is rather annoying....

thanks,

---

### Post by fancypiper on 2009-12-13
You have tried these?

# 64 bit flash fix
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1263905](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1263905)
# Howto fix Flash on Ubuntu 9.10
If you are not able to click on flash (e.g. on Youtube), here is how to fix this known bug (works for both 32-bit and 64-bit):

1. Press ALT+F2 and enter:
gksudo gedit /usr/lib/nspluginwrapper/i386/linux/npviewer

2. Add the following line before the last line in the file:
export GDK_NATIVE_WINDOWS=1

3. Save and restart Firefox, or if this doesn't fix it, try restarting Ubuntu.

# Location of flash player plug in
/usr/lib/firefox-addons/plugins/libflashplayer.so
/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so

---

### Post by PRC09 on 2009-12-13
Dont know if this will help after an upgrade but it worked for me on a fresh install...


[http://www.myscienceisbetter.info/install-native-64bit-flash-player-10-on-linux.html](http://www.myscienceisbetter.info/install-native-64bit-flash-player-10-on-linux.html)

---

### Post by Raven2k360 on 2009-12-15
I forgot to mention, my issue isn't one of an illegal instruction crash not being able to use the flash 'controls' or clicking on it; any page that has flash content tells me I need to install the plug-in....but I've already installed it....numerous times.  I've tried the 'beta' from Adobe, I've tried the repository versions, I've tried the launchpad 'patched' version or whatever it was.  I've tried purging all flash installs before reinstalling each one, and nothing seems to work.

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-12-15
> I forgot to mention, my issue isn't one of an illegal instruction crash not being able to use the flash 'controls' or clicking on it; any page that has flash content tells me I need to install the plug-in....but I've already installed it....numerous times. I've tried the 'beta' from Adobe, I've tried the repository versions, I've tried the launchpad 'patched' version or whatever it was. I've tried purging all flash installs before reinstalling each one, and nothing seems to work.

This [link](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/adobe-flash-player-10-for-64-bit-linux-released-and-ubuntu-installation-instructions.html) worked for me.Make sure you remove previous versions.


Good Luck

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-12-15
Where exactly have you installed the alpha Flash plugin to?

Make sure you only have ONE copy of Flash Player on your system otherwise your browser can get confused and report wrong versions of Flash. This might be causing your problem.

Have you tried the Flash Player PPA?

---

### Post by h'bel h'balim on 2009-12-15
My environment is 9.10 x64 running on a Dell 1420 laptop.

Fancypiper's fix did not work for me, but PRC09's did. I can confirm that the following link works 'on an upgrade' to 9.10 (see PRC09's comment, above) ...


[http://www.myscienceisbetter.info/install-native-64bit-flash-player-10-on-linux.html](http://www.myscienceisbetter.info/install-native-64bit-flash-player-10-on-linux.html)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-12-16
> **h'bel h'balim said:**
> My environment is 9.10 x64 running on a Dell 1420 laptop.

Fancypiper's fix did not work for me, but PRC09's did. I can confirm that the following link works 'on an upgrade' to 9.10 (see PRC09's comment, above) ...


[http://www.myscienceisbetter.info/install-native-64bit-flash-player-10-on-linux.html](http://www.myscienceisbetter.info/install-native-64bit-flash-player-10-on-linux.html)

Yep, that link contains the way to do it for 64-bit installs (that has worked for me for quite a while now).

Good to see Adobe have released another version - another step closer to an official 64-bit release.

Check it post-install with: ```
about:plugins
```

---

### Post by Raven2k360 on 2009-12-18
Well, I have an update.  I ran the shell script from that myscienceisbetter site, and still no dice.  Youtube was telling me I'm either running an older version of Flash, or Java wasn't installed....so I checked the Java website and it told me that I needed to install the plug-in.

I tried installing the Sun Java 6 plug-in from the Ubuntu Software Center, but got a 'Package dependencies cannot be resolved' error.  I tried going through synaptic, but it gives me this error:

"Sun-java6-plugin:
   Depends: sun-java6-bin (=6-15-1) but 6-16-0ubuntu1.9.04 is to be installed"

It also told me I had to install 'Firefox' when I marked it for installation, which I uninstalled when I uninstalled FF3.5.  When I reinstalled Firefox, I only reinstalled 3.5, not 'Firefox'.  Why would it need FF3.0 reinstalled??  More importantly, how do I resolve this?

Thanks,

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2009-12-18
I used this site a couple of days ago. The instructions can be changed for each new 
version of Flash (just modify the version numbers) It is for Karmic and the 32 bit 
instructions are on the left side and the 64 bit instructions are on the right side.
_[http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/java](http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/java)_

---

### Post by tonychar on 2009-12-29
> **fancypiper said:**
> You have tried these?

# 64 bit flash fix
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1263905](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1263905)
# Howto fix Flash on Ubuntu 9.10
If you are not able to click on flash (e.g. on Youtube), here is how to fix this known bug (works for both 32-bit and 64-bit):

1. Press ALT+F2 and enter:
gksudo gedit /usr/lib/nspluginwrapper/i386/linux/npviewer

2. Add the following line before the last line in the file:
export GDK_NATIVE_WINDOWS=1

3. Save and restart Firefox, or if this doesn't fix it, try restarting Ubuntu.

# Location of flash player plug in
/usr/lib/firefox-addons/plugins/libflashplayer.so
/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so

Works for me.  Thanks very much.  :guitar:

---

### Post by premamotion on 2009-12-29
I had Flash plugin problems in Mozilla Firefox, but if you update to version 3.5.6 of Firefox, you still have the problem? Mine got solvet now.

---

### Post by fancypiper on 2010-05-31
This may fix it: [What To Do After A Fresh Ubuntu Install: A Script For Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/04/what-to-do-after-fresh-ubuntu-install.html)

    * Adds extra repositories: Ubuntu restricted, extras, Medibuntu, Getdeb, Dropbox (only if you select to install Dropbox)


    * Installs from repositories: The GIMP, Pidgin, WINE, Choose between the best 3 docks for Linux (Docky, Cairo Dock and Avant Window Navigator), Install Google Earth, Bisigi Themes, Community themes (and extra community themes), Chromium browser, Gnome Do, Guake, VLC media player, Mplayer, SMplayer, Thunderbird, Dropbox, Codecs (multimedia, java, flash), additional archives support, DVD support and fonts, Ubuntu Tweak, Deluge Torrent, CompizConfig Settings Manager, Development tools (from build-essential to Subversion, GIT and so on).


    * Downloads and installs the following: Google Chrome browser (will download the build for 32 or 64 bit, depending on your Ubuntu version), official smiley themes for Pidgin (for all the protocols), the latest Flash Player for 64bit via Adobe's website, Skype (32 or 64bit, depending on your Ubuntu version).


    * Tweaks:

          o Move window buttons to the right (Karmic style)
          o Change Update Manager behavior to the one in Jaunty
          o Remove mounted drive icons from desktop
          o Disable the GDM login sound
          o Enable the icons in menus and buttons
          o Disable the GDM login user list
          o Remove the ubuntu-docs package (frees up 252MB)
          o Change Gnome Calendar first day of the week from Sunday to Monday
          o Downloads, installs and configure sharp fonts (starting with version 0.4.5: also installs sharp fonts for Firefox)
          o Fix 'apt-get update' delay for Google repository
          o Automatically mount NTFS drives on startup

    * Option to reset any changes made by the tweaks (tweaks only!) (stating with version 0.4.5)


    * Automatically accepts the JAVA and Google Earth license so you don't have to


    * The Medibuntu server is currently down which made me develop a new feature: the script now tests the main Medibuntu server and 2 other mirrors and adds whichever of these 3 is working.


    * Lots of checks to make sure you run the script proprely: will check if the script is ran as root, if Synaptic, apt-get, dpkg or Software Center is running and will ask you to close it before running the script, checks the internet connection to make sure you can actually install the packages, etc.

---

