---
title: ".avi file invisible in hardy hard disc"
date: 2009-04-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by abhinav.p on 2009-04-18
heres a peculiar problem.from a pen drive i copied a folder containing a .avi file of 700mb which was copied to an ntfs file system within reasonable time.when i opened the folder i was surprised to see only a thumbs file of 24mb.is there any file type my hardy system is unable to recognise?the same folder has my 700mb file when accessed through windows.how is it possible?

---

### Post by 123456789123456789123456 on 2009-04-18
let me get this straight, if I am correct, I may know the problem.  You coppied the file from what folder to a ntfs partition?  Ubuntu does not show the file in the new location.  IF the pin drive is what I think it is Fat16, and you coppied it to the ntfs partiton, windows is able to read that the file is there.  It is still there in ubuntu, just hidden, I suspect that the permissions have something to do with that, for instance, lets say that it gave the avi file, ownership of root, or system, and that the group owner was able to read the file, but others had no permissions.  The result would be since you are not system, nor are you root, you do not have any permissions, without read permission, you would not be able to see the file.  Read permission would allow you to read the view the file, write would allow you full access to the file.  Try this, use sudo, or log in as root through terminal using su command.  List the contents of the folder/drive.  you should be able to see the avi file, along with the owner it thinks it is.  You can either remidy the problem by either changing the permissions to allow others, the alst permission area to allow read/write access, or change the owner to be you, that would also eliaviate the problem.  I have not had this error accure with Ubuntu before, but something simular happened on Mac OS X, which is based off of Unix.  When moving a file from a pc drive to the mac hard disk, or even from a cd to the hard disk, I noticed that even though I was considered the owner, I was only able to read the file, not open, not change, or do anything else with, just read it was there.  and open in read only mode.  I suspect something simular happened here as well.

---

### Post by abhinav.p on 2009-06-23
i figured out the problem.the file names started with a ".".so they were hidden.a simple ctrl+h displayed them.thanks for the help anyway

---

