---
title: "18.04.1 won't boot anymore"
date: 2018-08-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2018-08-23
I installed 18.04.1 and it boot the first 2 times but then not anymore. It can't even get to the login screen. The screen goes black and that's it, stuck there.

I have an HP Elitebook 8470p laptop
Processor:  Intel® Core&#8482; i5-3320M CPU @ 2.60GHz × 4 
Graphics:   Intel® Ivybridge Mobile
HDD: 1 T
Ram:   8 GB
64 bit

I had to remove it and restore my backup of 16.04.04 so I don't have it anymore and can't do any troubleshooting if you post it here. Basically I'm just leaving this here to let people know the thing doesn't work.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-08-24
Did you do a clean install or did you upgrade?  Obviously, there are MANY people who have 18.04 running just fine: I have it running on 9 different machines of my own so far with no problems.

If you *upgraded* to 18.04, that could be the problem. I learned long ago to never upgrade but to back up everything and do clean installs.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2018-08-24
It was an upgrade using the terminal.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2018-08-24
I wonder if it was a bad kernel. I ran an update before it using Synaptic which means there wasn't phased updates and I could've gotten a bad kernel. Although the upgrade might have installed the same kernel anyway (I don't know how that works).

Just wondering.......

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2018-08-24
Someone else has noticed this issue too :

[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2399379](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2399379)

I decided to run an update from the 16.04.4 I mentioned above, was wondering if the update would turn out to be bad because I had run it before upgrading to 18.04.1.  It was bad! I got the same boot issue again!!!!

---

