---
title: "7.04 to 7.10 upgrade, something went bang. No idea what to do next. :("
date: 2008-02-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by crappish on 2008-02-08
I updated my computer from Feisty to Gutsy and I think I screwed up something.

Currently I'm running 7.10 64bit version on Core 2 Duo system.

Now Apt-get nor Synaptic simply won't connect. (I'm behind a proxy) Things I've tried:
- Setting the proxy to "*/etc/apt/apt.conf*" (which wasn't there)
- Setting the proxy to "*/etc/apt/apt.conf.d/02proxy*" (which also was created)
- Setting the proxy at system level (Network Proxy Preferences)
- Setting the proxy at Synaptic preferences

All I get from i.e. "*sudo apt-get update*" "*Err [http://security.ubuntu.com](http://security.ubuntu.com) gutsy-security Release.gpg  Could not resolve 'wwwproxy..."*"


Plus, theres something weird in my connection. Ifconfig shows eth0 running fine (as it should be, since network is working fine) but i.e. with "*sudo ifdown eth0*" I get "*ifdown: interface eth0 not configured*". I can ping google just fine but when I try to ping the proxy, the respond is rather sluggish; the latency seem to be 11ms but at each line it takes 3-5 seconds to appear. Pinging anything else works just like it should.

Also, the About Ubuntu has disappeared from System menu.. It's not visible even in the "*Edit menus*" dialog. Which, I'd take as a not so good sign.

This system has been receiving just system upgrades since 6.04, so I don't know if I have done something around those days, which isn't compatible with 7.10... Also I'm not sure if I answered the all network related questions (do you want to keep file X) alike, I may have answered Yes to some and No to some. Which just might render my system to the sorry state that it is now.


Help would be seriously appreciated! :) I've been poking around the system & google and I have no idea what to do next.


edit: Crap. Wrong area.. :S

---

### Post by crappish on 2008-02-11
Bump. Anyone?
(or could someone move the thread to proper area, since mr. Butterfingers here fooked that up..?)

---

### Post by crappish on 2008-02-11
It seems that wget doesn't work either. "*Resolving wwwproxy... failed: Name or service not known.*"

Something weird with my networking, Should I reinstall networking packages, and how do I do that?

---

### Post by crappish on 2008-02-11
Hmm. It turned out to be so simple as the networking couldn't figure out the DNS of the proxy server. The second I gave it it's IP, everything started working... I just wonder, how come it could resolve [www.google.fi](www.google.fi) and not wwwproxy...?

---

