---
title: "unable to run Samsung monitor disc"
date: 2008-06-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by woof603 on 2008-06-12
Hardy is reading my monitor as Generic. When I try to load in the software from the monitor installation disc I cannot get autorun to open the disc.
Anyone know how I can get this monitor recognized by Hardy?
Thanks.

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-06-12
it does not matter if it is recognized as generic, as long as it is working well. if you really must have ubuntu know the name of your monitor, run this in a terminal. ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2008-06-12
I doubt that anything on that disc is going to do you any good, my guess is that the only thing on that disc is window based software !!!

Is there a problem with the display ?  If your only problem is how it is being described, then you had probably best leave it alone or you are probably going to wind up with some real problems.  A word to the wise is sufficient !!!

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-12
Try adding the plug and play detection (DDC option) to your monitor section in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

> Option "DDC" "false"

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and insert in in the last line of your "Monitor" section.

---

### Post by woof603 on 2008-06-12
Thanks for the replies.  I should be more specific.  The max resolution I can get is 800 x 600 with the monitor listed as generic.  I'd like to run it at 1024 x 786. 
Any thoughts?
Thanks.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2008-06-12
Is that higher resolution not listed under System/Preferences/Screen Resolution ?

If it is not then I would say that this is probably more of a problem with your video card driver than anything to do with the monitor settings.

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-06-12
> **woof603 said:**
> Thanks for the replies.  I should be more specific.  The max resolution I can get is 800 x 600 with the monitor listed as generic.  I'd like to run it at 1024 x 786. 
Any thoughts?
Thanks.

Post us your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file:

---

### Post by chronographer on 2008-06-12
try this "sudo dpgk-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg"

BUT BACK UP YOUR OLD ONE FIRST! 
"sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup"

once you have done, log out, then back in again, or go "crtl alt backspace"

If everything breaks, try "ctrl alt F1" and log into a terminal and then do "sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf"

I would try this until Ubuntu gets it right, messing around with modelines is a pain in the ****. But it is rigorous when it works!

---

### Post by woof603 on 2008-06-13
As suggested by Iaculallad, here's my conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-06-13
A suggestion; right click on Applications in the top panel; go to Edit Menus; select Other; in the right box, there will be a list of possible choices; check Screens and Graphis; then (this is from memory, so I don't totally recall) check OK, save, whatever. Then, open Applications, scroll down to Other, Screens and Graphics should appear to the right; click on it, and, in the Screens tab, try to find your monitor; if it isn't there, then stay with what appears, and try to change your resolution. You might also click on the  Graphics Card tab, and "tweak" it to your specific card. 

HTH.

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-06-13
Or, in lieu of the above process, at the terminal```
sudo displayconfig-gtk
``` will get you to the same place.

---

