---
title: ".dmrc &amp; userhome permissions/ownership error won't stay fixed"
date: 2009-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jamesisin on 2009-01-08
I have gone through the fix located in this helpful post:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976610](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=976610)

As a matter of fact, I have gone through this solution four times in the last three days.  I'm not clear why, but I keep losing the permissions and have to run the fix again.

It has been suggested that using graphical sudo can be problematic.  When I sudo I don't generall use any arguments:

sudo apt-get...

I don't tend to spawn segments of the gui from the command line, so I wouldn't typically need gksudo.  Is there some segment of the gui which would be spawning itself incorrectly?

I am NOT running either chmod nor chown myself.

I have been ripping CD's using Sound Juicer, but I can't imagine it's f***ing with the permissions.  (I am NOT running Sound Juicer as root.)

I checked crontab for cron jobs.  Root has none.  I have one (random-wallpaper) which also doesn't seem to be the sort of critter to cause this sort of trouble (though it isn't actually changing the wallpaper).

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2009-01-11
It hasn't done it lately.  The best theory I have been able to come up with is relates to another directory on this machine.  I pulled the home directory out of my previous installation (same username so same folder name) and it was on this system.

Since I have stopped tinkering with that old directory I haven't seen this problem re-appear.

Just a guess though.  Still a little (a lot) baffled.

---

