---
title: ".5 Sound"
date: 2007-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Het Irv on 2007-07-12
When I started on Ubuntu I was using a not so great Computer but since then I have Transplanted the HD from that Computer to another with Windows.  Ever since the transplant my sound in Ubuntu Has only worked on every other boot.  This is reliable.  If i dont have sound i can reboot and it is back.  While I can stand this it is annoying and I would like to fix this My sound card is a Sound Blaster Live! 24bit.

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2007-07-13
Just a 24-hour Bump

Please Help

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2007-07-14
Yes this is another bump.  But it is the last one for this thread

---

### Post by El Viejo Lobo on 2007-07-15
> **Het Irv said:**
> When I started on Ubuntu I was using a not so great Computer but since then I have Transplanted the HD from that Computer to another with Windows.  Ever since the transplant my sound in Ubuntu Has only worked on every other boot.  This is reliable.  If i dont have sound i can reboot and it is back.  While I can stand this it is annoying and I would like to fix this My sound card is a Sound Blaster Live! 24bit.

What you mean by transplant?  You took the HD with the Ubuntu Installed on it and put it in a new box? If it is what you did then you better make a fresh install.

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2007-07-15
I have been messing around with the problem and I can use the onboard sound from the motherboard.  Other than the card everything works like it should.  I am to lazy to reinstall right now.  I was looking for a quick fix but its not nessissary. 

Thanks anyway.

---

