---
title: "ATI for a newb"
date: 2005-06-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by okaaay on 2005-06-22
Hey all.
I'm looking for someone to give me (and possibly others) an easy to use guide to installing ATI-drivers.

As it is now, I've been able to install ati-drivers following the ubuntu-wiki help.
My problem is it's impossible to get the system to load the driver. 
It will only use standard ati, i.e not fglrx.

When I installed it and ran fglrxconfig, configured it as I think was right, the screen just went black.
I ctrl-alt-f1:ed, and it said it couldnt start the fglrx-module, and didn't find a screen. Though as soon as I change to "ati" instead of "fglrx", it snappes in to KDE.

And another thing I did now, to get it to boot with fglrx was to set "Option NoTV no" (or what it's called). 
But fglrx is still not enabled. Just Mesa.

To put it simple.. I want to know just WHAT I need to install to get it to work.
What packages and so on.
I've seen mentions of loads, and loads of packages, wich I as a noob have no idea what they are.

Hope you can make something of this post, and maybe even help. [:

cheers
/marcus

(ps) here's my xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
 FontPath "unix/:7100"   # local font server
 # if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
 FontPath "/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
 FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
 FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
 Load "GLcore"
 Load "bitmap"
 Load "dbe"
 Load "ddc"
 Load "dri"
 Load "extmod"
 Load "freetype"
 Load "glx"
 Load "record"
 Load "type1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
 Driver  "keyboard"
 Option  "CoreKeyboard"
 Option  "XkbRules" "xorg"
 Option  "XkbModel" "pc105"
 Option  "XkbLayout" "se"
 Option  "XkbVariant" "nodeadkeys"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
 Identifier "Configured Mouse"
 Driver  "mouse"
 Option  "CorePointer"
 Option  "Device"  "/dev/input/mice"
 Option  "Protocol"  "ImPS/2"
 Option  "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
 Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X800 XT (R420 JP)"
 Driver  "fglrx"
 BusID  "PCI:2:0:0"
 Option  "NoTV" "yes"
 Option  "UseInternalAGPGART" "yes"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
 Identifier "Samsung"
 Option  "DPMS"
 HorizSync 30-110
 VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
 Identifier "Default Screen"
 Device  "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon X800 XT (R420 JP)"
 Monitor  "Samsung"
 DefaultDepth 24
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  1
  Modes  "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  4
  Modes  "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  8
  Modes  "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  15
  Modes  "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  16
  Modes  "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
 EndSubSection
 SubSection "Display"
  Depth  24
  Modes  "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
 EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
 Identifier "Default Layout"
 Screen  "Default Screen"
 InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
 InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
 Mode 0666
EndSection

edit:
ATI Control panel shows 
Card name: unknown
BIOS Version: 9.01
Chip type: unknown
Chip revision: A11
DAC Speed: 400MHz
Transfer Mode: PCI(!?)
Openglstuff: Mesa project GLX

---

### Post by rachii on 2005-06-22
check out this thread

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=24557)

but before reinstalling (like i did) try looking at his xorg.conf and copying some of the missing modules etc...  

also check your /etc/modules    is mesa listed in there?   if so remove it, that fixed my problem

---

