---
title: "14.10 double click doesn't open default application"
date: 2014-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zajcek on 2014-10-29
For example:

- when I double click on .pdf file, it is opened in Gnome Document Previewer, I cannot set pdf files to be opened  in the Document Viewer
- if I double click on a .m3u file on a Desktop it is opened in Mousepad instead VLC, when I did that in Thunar it works

It looks like the Thunar integration into Desktop is not working as expected. In 14.04 works fine.

Any idea how to fix that?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-10-29
How have you set the defaults?

Did you go to the files in thunar and right click ->Properties and set the default application there?

I've not yet tried 14.10, even in VBox, so I can not say if this is what happens in that version.

---

### Post by zajcek on 2014-10-29
Document Viewer is set as default for .pdf files in Thunar (1.6.3) but double click opens .pdf file in [COLOR=#000000]Gnome Document Previewer.
Right click shows Print Preview as default ???) but if we go to file properties, Document Viewer is set as default. It is confusing where program "Print Preview" come from.
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-10-30
Just a thought; have a search through the **Mime-type-editor** settings in the Settings-manager to see if that helps or explains the discrepancies in your system.

---

### Post by zajcek on 2014-11-06
**Mime-type-editor** shows for **application/pdf** defualt application Document Viewer. If I double click on a pdf file it opens in Print Preview instead Document Viewer.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-11-06
See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250940&p=13158046#post13158046](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250940&p=13158046#post13158046)

You may want to modify it to remove the preview bit as well!

---

### Post by Elfy on 2014-11-06
The fix is currently in the SRU system.

You can if you so wish - turn on -proposed repo from software and updates, update - upgrade Thunar, then turn off -proposed again.

---

