---
title: "12.04.5 won't boot. A day of work lost."
date: 2014-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by saleck on 2014-08-08
Done

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-08-08
saleck; Hi ! My Welcome to the forum.

It is unclear to me what the situation is .. Let's find out what condition the condition is in ->
1) can you boot to the grub boot menu ? And from there boot an older kernel ?
2) Have you tried booting using the default fall back graphics driver ( Nvidia , ATI uses "nomodeset") from grub  ?
3) Is that liveDVD known to be bootable ? Are you setting in bios ( or EFI) the booting priority to boot up from  the DVD ?

Once we can boot to something, we can conduct additional tests to see what is . IF you saved your work prior to rebooting from that upgrade, your data is still there !

[INDENT][INDENT]the power of cognitive think'n
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-08-08
Run memtest from the GRUB menu.  Make sure your RAM is OK.  Sometimes a bad battery will cause boot problems.  Remove it and try to boot from just the power cord.

---

### Post by Rev2010 on 2014-08-08
There is an insane amount of information and resolutions to this error on the net. Have you considered Googling the issue before flipping about it in a forum? Your data is still there, it hasn't been erased and you don't need to reinstall everything. You just need to reinstall the drivers without using the gui.


Rev.

---

### Post by saleck on 2014-08-08
You'd probably flip out too if you had lost important work documents. And it **has** been lost, all my partitions got completely ruined for no reason.
I wasnt even using Ubuntu heavily either, it had Steam on it and that was it aside from all my work documents.
But it has all been lost. My hard drive had to be completely re-partitioned and my Ubuntu 12.04.1/Windows 7 setup is now all going. Luckily, people were understanding about it at the shop but I will be very slow to update to newer versions in the near future.

---

### Post by MartyBuntu on 2014-08-08
Backups...

---

