---
title: "10.04:  &quot;Could not open location 'sftp:// ...' DBus error"
date: 2012-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by L a r r y on 2012-02-06
Hello all,

In recent weeks I have been encountering an issue with my ability to open a Nautilus window on my web site via sftp after the first time since I restarted the computer.

> Error
**Could not open location 'sftp://username@example.com/server-path-to-website/public_html'**
DBus error org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NoReply: Message did not receive a reply (timeout by message bus)
[Close]


After any computer restart, I am successful in opening this remote location once, and navigating around in it and transferring files to and from it.  (I have to enter my root password to unlock the keyring first.)

After I close the Nautilus window and unmount the remote location, I am always presented with the error message on any subsequent attempt to revisit the remote site.

If I restart the computer, I am again required to enter the password to unlock the keyring, then am successful in logging on to the remote site.

I have no issues in reaching the same site via the same sftp parameters over and over again using gFTP.

Prior to the start of the issue with the DBus error, I have never had any trouble re-accessing the site via my Places shortcut to open a Nautilus session on the website.

When I get email using Evolution, I have to enter my password to unlock the keyring, but once having done so the first time after restarting the computer, I have no  issues on repeat visits to obtain mail, whether it involves one or many Evolution sessions.

Upon researching the DBus error glitch, I ran across a thread discussing similar error messages dealing with attaching an iPhone to the computer via USB, and am not sure how relevant the solutions were to me.

See _[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1670314](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1670314)_ for the other discussion on this forum.

Any ideas will be appreciated.  Thanks in advance.

---

