---
title: "New 17.10 upgrade ... Where's Programs and Updates?"
date: 2018-03-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by imaginashawn2 on 2018-03-30
Just upgraded 16.04 last night to 17.10 and today I started to set up OpenVPN and I can't find Programs and Updates! Any idea where it is? Thank you.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-03-30
Not sure I understand the question.  16.04 used Unity. 17.10 uses Gnome3. These are different DEs, so things behave a little differently.

Tap the "super" key.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/stable/ubuntu-help/index.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/stable/ubuntu-help/index.html) has more details.

---

### Post by imaginashawn2 on 2018-04-01
I am looking for a way to open Programs & Updates. In 16.04 you could access it in Settings but it's no longer there. How do I open Programs & Updates?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2018-04-01
Are you looking for Ubuntu Software or Software & Updates ?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-04-01
> **imaginashawn2 said:**
> I am looking for a way to open Programs & Updates. In 16.04 you could access it in Settings but it's no longer there. How do I open Programs & Updates?

In a new GUI, things can change.  The change from 16.04 to 17.10 is large - they changed entire desktop environments - DEs.

More ideas ... ignore if you like.

Not probably what you want, but if you learn to use the shell, the changes over time are much smaller.  Many of the things I did in 1993 are still working, unchanged.  Installing packages from the shell hasn't really changed since Ubuntu was first released. Updating a system hasn't either.  I started using Ubuntu in 2008 and these two commands from back then will still patch a system:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

If I want, I can use a slightly cleaner interface by using:
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```
but the results will be the same. I use  'apt' because it has fewer characters. ;)  Less typing is always good.

To install a package, something like sudo apt install {insert-package-name} works.  If you don't know the package name, guess the first few characters and hit {tab} a few times for tab-completion to work.  I seldom know the names of packages, but there is a pattern that I've learned.

---

