---
title: "(11.04) Radeon 5700 Series: Catalyst Fails to Launch"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gdea73 on 2011-04-30
I really don't know what's going on here. I had Ubuntu 10.10 working great, and noticed 11.04 came out. I had been waiting a while :P and, for some reason, I decided to start with a fresh install rather than an upgrade.

So basically here's what I've done so far:
- Installed Ubuntu 11.04 amd64
- Installed Opera, and XSensors
(sensors-detect only detected my GPU and CPU, not mainboard this time. But I can live with that.)
- Activated the FGLRX driver, rebooted.
---
- Tried to launch Catalyst Control Center, received this error message:
[Initialization error]

There was a problem initializing CCC Linux edition. It could be caused by the following.
No ATI graphics driver is installed, or the ATI driver is not functioning properly. Please install the ATI driver apropriate for you ATI hardware, or configure using aticonfig.

What do I do? :(

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2011-04-30
And Yes, I've seen other threads similar to this, and they were all referred to this page:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide)

but it did not help me much at all. After all, shouldn't the recommended driver just work?

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2011-04-30
hmm, following that guide that I linked to, I get an error with installing the .deb's

gdea73@g73net-pc-3:~/catalyst11.4$ sudo dpkg -i flgrx*.deb
dpkg: error processing flgrx*.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 flgrx*.deb

---

### Post by asalina on 2011-04-30
Frankly I'm pretty pissed off at the Ubuntu people right now. I got a pop-up window on my
desktop today SUGGESTING that I upgrade to 11.04. I canceled that window but when I
was working with Update Manager I decided to upgrade then.

NOWHERE WAS IT MENTIONED that 11.04 is an ALPHA release... And don't anyone tell
me that I should read these forums etc. so that I would know. Ubuntu should not be
creating pop-up windows advertising ALPHA releases to the general public. I am not an
ALPHA tester, and neither are the majority of users.

Now I'm going to have to wipe my whole damned drive in order to get back to a STABLE
version of Linux, because you cannot downgrade from 11.04. How do you like THEM
apples?

Anyway, yeah. I'm having big problems with fglrx too. My Xorg.0.log file reports that
the kernel module for fglrx is from Sept. 2010, and thus it is incompatible with the fglrx
driver, which renders hardware 3D acceleration inoperable. In other words I can't run
any OpenGL applications. Not even glxinfo will run.

---

