---
title: "&quot;The device _______ is being ejected. This may take some time&quot;"
date: 2013-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by peyre on 2013-04-01
Every time I eject a device (CD, Zip disk, flash drive, whatever), I get this message and I have to click OK on it.  Why won't it just eject the disk and leave it at that, like my laptop with Xubuntu 12.04?  Or rather, my question is, how can I get it to stop doing this?  It's unnecessary and annoying.

I'm running Xubuntu 12.10 on the affected computer.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-04-01
Good question! What brand and model of computer?

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2013-04-01
I'd wager you have package notify-osd active. For some reason, Thunar prefers xfce4-notifyd to display notifications about ejected media. If notify-osd is installed, Thunar will display your popup dialog, which never disappears. The notification bubbles generated by xfce4-notifyd do go away once the media is safe to remove.

You should try to remove notify-osd and install xfce4-notifyd, then reboot. To configure the Xfce notification daemon, run [FONT=Courier New]xfce4-notifyd-config[/FONT].

Cheers!

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-04-01
As a comment, in Xubuntu 12.10, I can right-click on a flash drive on the Desktop and select Eject, and it quietly goes away.

---

### Post by peyre on 2013-04-01
> **gordintoronto said:**
> Good question! What brand and model of computer?

I bought it from a little place, ibexpc.com.  It's an Ibex 5015 Barebone System.

---

### Post by peyre on 2013-04-01
> **LewisTM said:**
> I'd wager you have package notify-osd active. For some reason, Thunar prefers xfce4-notifyd to display notifications about ejected media. If notify-osd is installed, Thunar will display your popup dialog, which never disappears. The notification bubbles generated by xfce4-notifyd do go away once the media is safe to remove.

You should try to remove notify-osd and install xfce4-notifyd, then reboot. To configure the Xfce notification daemon, run [FONT=Courier New]xfce4-notifyd-config[/FONT].

Cheers!

HEY!  That worked.  Thanks!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2013-04-02
> **peyre said:**
> HEY!  That worked.  Thanks!

Then MARK the thread!

---

### Post by peyre on 2013-04-02
> **dcstar said:**
> Then MARK the thread!

Since you mention it, HOW do I mark it?  It used to be offered as an option under Thread Tools, but I don't see it anywhere now.

---

