---
title: "10.10  boot errors"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by v3rlon on 2010-10-12
I have been trying 10.04 on a dual-boot laptop for a month or so.
When 10.10 came out, I tried upgrading.  The whole thing processes then says it would like to restart.  Once it restarts, it won't boot into Linux.  It just goes back to a reboot screen when I select it.

I can still boot Windows.  I tried reinstalling 10.04 (losing all my synced contacts through Ubuntu One beta *sniff*) and that worked.  Upgraded to 10.10 and the same problem happened.

Laptop is an Acer Aspire Timeline 5810TZ-4657
Intel SU2700 CPU
3GB Ram
Intel video card
320GB hard drive (about half full)

All the hardware is default.  I am not sure what is up with Meerkat, but it sure doesn't like me.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2010-10-12
Welcome to the forums!
The surefire way to avoid this is, as you said, to stick with the LTS distro for a while. There are lots of people who just keep using their distro even past the new release. People are still using 8.04 even.
Or you could boot into a live CD, open up a terminal and type
```

sudo mount /dev/sdXX /mnt
sudo mount --bind /dev  /mnt/dev
sudo mount --bind /dev/pts  /mnt/dev/pts
sudo mount --bind /proc /mnt/proc
sudo mount --bind /sys  /mnt/sys
sudo chroot /mnt
sudo update-grub
sudo reboot

```If that doesn't work, please post the output of the [boot info script]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/files/bootinfoscript/0.55/boot_info_script055.sh/download").
Run the script by typing "sudo chmod +x " into a terminal window, and then clicking and dragging the script file into the terminal (literally), then pressing enter. Then type "sudo " and click and drag the file in again and press enter. It will create a file called RESULTS.TXT in your home folder, open it and paste the contents back in this thread and we will try to help you out.
Good luck,
 - search

---

### Post by v3rlon on 2010-10-13
So, tried downloading the 10.10 and installing it directly (just stubborn like that)..
 
It installs, it looks pretty, the restarts and need to 'configure hardware' for a while.  Meerkat kindly lets me look at a slideshow while it does this.  Then it asks to restart once more.
 
I select Ubuntu.  Then a second select comes up (Ubuntu, Unbuntu recovery mode, and two Win 7 selectors that I ignore at this point).  I select Ubuntu.
 
Screen goes black for about 10 seconds. Then
Gave up waiting for a root device.  Common problems:
-Boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)
-check rootdelay= (did the system wait long enough?)
- check root = ((did the system wait for the right device?)
-Missing Modules (cat .proc/modules; ls /dev)
ALERT! /dev/sdb2 does not exist.  Dropping to a shell!
 
At the moment, I dont have a terminal window to work with (no live CD at the moment, just trying installs and trying to understand what is going wrong.
 
sdb2 assuredly does not exist in the directory, though.
 
Yeah, I could run 10.04...but wanted to try the new version because...well just because really.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2010-10-13
Ubuntu is trying to get to your system partition without success.
If you have windows 7 and don't feel like removing it, you could try Wubi?
Your installation has a messed up fstab file, here is how to fix it. You will need some sort of recovery disk or way to access your hard disk's files, such as a live CD.


[LIST=1]
[*]Open up the file /etc/fstab on your hard disk as root. On the live CD this can be achieved by typing in ```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
[*]Save the contents to a new file in your home folder or preferably an external storage source (i.e. online)
[*]Remove all of your *additional* hard drives from the file, etc. This would mean anything besides your swap and system partition, CD/DVD drives, and floppy drives. They have their own lines in the file, you can recognize them by their mount point which is listed.
[*]Save the file and close the window.
[*]Upgrade to Mandrake.
[*]Reboot. The problem will most likely still occur.
[*]Turn off your PC; unplug all of the hard disks' power cables except for the one with your "/" or system and swap partitions on it.
[*]Go back into the live CD.
[*]Go into System>Administration>GParted and make note of how the Live CD assigns labels to your drives. For example, if your system drive changed from /dev/hda1 to /dev/hde1, make note of that.
[*]Mount the Hard disk that has your swap and system partitions on it.
[*]Save the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file to the same place you saved your fstab earlier.
[*]As root, edit the the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file. ```
 sudo chmod -w /boot/grub/grub.cfg
``````
sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```
[*]Scroll down to the menu entries and change them to how they should be (as they are on the live CD) according to the notes you made earlier.
[*]Save the file.
[*]Reboot. Your system should now boot... If it doesn't your Fstab and grub.cfg files should be saved elsewhere, replace them and post back.
[/LIST]
I believe you should get a Live USB or CD first and try my other suggestion :)

---

### Post by joneill1955 on 2010-10-14
I upgraded from 10.04.1 to 10.10 smoothly, but on first reboot into 10.10, it boots directly into terminal.  Any thoughts on how to boot into GUI?

---

### Post by adrian.ccs on 2010-10-14
hi joneill1955 I dont know the command directly but try sudo apt-get joe, and it will tell you the command that you need it was something like dpkg -configure -a

---

