---
title: "Cloning small HDD upgraging to larger HDD in laptop."
date: 2014-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by daniel134 on 2014-05-04
Hello all, I am a beginner -  for sure!! Not only am I new to Linux, I am new to anything outside of my Windows world. Although I am using Linux based software (Clonezilla) I am soing it from a Windows Vista environment.  I have a Gateway laptop with a 160 gb HDD and would like to upgrade to a larger HDD. I have a small recovery partition with the tools to back-up and restore the system, but in order to use it, the machine has to have all the original hardware, specifically the original DVD/CD writer/re-writer. The machine is a few years old and I have had to replace the DVD player. When I replaced the DVD I decided to upgrade to a Bluray burner rather than replace with the original equipment. When doing this, I didn't imagine that it was I was not going to be able to make a copy of my system recovery disks. I attempted to make a back-up of my system so that  could restore it to a larger HDD. It went through the couple hour process only to error-out at the end because the equipment list that was used to make the original back-up didn't match the current list of equipment used to make the current back-up. I'm not sure that I am making sense, so I will just move to what I am attempting and why I am doing it this way.  I did a ton of research of what I should do and what software I should use to do it, maybe too much because I am lost. I have limited experience with anything other than Windows, but I have recently looked into switching to Linux, because I feel that both Windows and Apple want way too much control over my stuff. I have installed VMWare Workstation and have been testing Ubuntu and Opensuse just to get a feel for Linux. So far I am happy with both distros and I am prepared to try a little different flavor. But for now I have to finish my final project, and this involves needing more hard drive space on my laptop.  I have installed Clonezilla on a USB and have successfully cloned my 160gb HDD onto a 320gb HDD. I accepted the defaults and cloned from disk to disk, a direct copy. But this has left me with 151gb's of empty hard drive, with nothing on it, and a god copy of everything from my original disk.  Here (finally) are my questions and if there is only one correct answer, please tell me... How do I take advantage of the extra space on my HDD?  Do I extend the volume? Do I resize the original to cover the whole second HDD? Can I make a second (really a third) partition on the 151gb portion of the second HDD? Do I extend the HDD before or after cloning?  Do I extend the HDD to cover the whole new HDD? If so, how?  or am I all together wrong?  I can take the target HDD (new 320) and put it in my computer after cloning while (using the default settings in Clonezilla) and my machine will run just like I never did anything to it. I just don't know how to take advantage of the new space. I guess I can experiment, but I am running out of time. If anyone knows about what I am talking about, please help.

---

