---
title: "10.10 shotwell, eye of gnome, and the 'places' short cut"
date: 2011-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by keithpeter on 2011-01-11
Hello All

I've got a stock install of 10.10 on this Asus desktop PC.

I used Shotwell to import a folder of images from a photoCD made by a film processing lab

I rotated some of the images in Shotwell to match their natural orientation

Since then, when I select the Places menu item, I get eog displaying the first image in my home directory, not launching Nautilus. Selecting 'Desktop' gives me eog displaying the image file on my desktop

Uninstalling Eog via software centre restores normal nautilus launching.

How can I restore Nautilus launching from the Places menu item and keep an image viewer?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-01-11
Open nautilus, right click on a folder, choose **Properties->Open with** tab and there choose "Other application" and navigate to file manager, or nautilus, or however it is described; it's in the list somewhere or other.

Normally the **Open with** tab is not shown for folders, but if they open with some other application than the file manager by default, I think it appears, allowing you to change back to normal behaviour.

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2011-01-12
Hello ajgreeney

Thanks very much, that sorted it, no idea why it happened.

Cheers

---

### Post by alfh on 2011-01-31
Same happened to me, only with the variation that my usb stick didn't get properly unmounted and I had to shut down the computer to "safely remove" it.

When I rebooted clicking on any shortcut in the places menu except "computer" launched EyeofGnome.

ajgreeny's suggestion fixed the problem, open with... and choose 'Open folder' set things back to normal. Thanks!

---

### Post by ashmew2 on 2011-04-13
Started happening when i made a shell script in my Home Folder , Fixed it by selecting some other Folder > Right Click > Open With > 'Open Folder'.

Thanks ! :)

---

