---
title: "17.10 poor performance in Gnome"
date: 2017-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by biz122 on 2017-11-16
I have been struggling a bit after moving to 17.10, and one thing that is out of order is that Gnome is very slow.

More precisely: Moving windows, resizing windows and clicking on menus is lagging. Resizing is worst, because you can clearly see the windows being chopped 1cm between frames... **The desktop feels like syrup**.

Now, I have tried a few things like turning off animations, switching to lighter gtk themes, switching back to Xorg and confirmed that I have direct rendering. This made no difference.

Me having used Unity for a very long time have no clue what to expect from Gnome - perhaps it is generally slow compared to Unity, and what I am seeing is not an issue?

If not, then any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2017-11-16
Can you post the specs of your machine?  Did you update to 17.10 or do a clean install?

---

### Post by biz122 on 2017-11-16
It's an XPS13 9360 running an intel i7-7500U with HD Graphics 620 (Kabylake GT2).

I have tried an upgrade from 17.04 and a clean install.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2017-11-16
EDIT: Nevermind, you've already tried switching back to Xorg.

---

### Post by speartip on 2017-11-16
I'm in the same situation as the OP. All intel with integrated graphics, Unity runs fine, but anything Gnome is scratchy at best, & so slow. Ended up dual booting Xubuntu with KDE Neon. Plasma 5 runs like a dream, in fact is probably snappier than xfce. Gnome is a no go for me.

---

### Post by biz122 on 2017-11-17
> **kostkon said:**
> EDIT: Nevermind, you've already tried switching back to Xorg.

Do you have any other idea?

---

### Post by biz122 on 2017-11-17
One more thing, sometimes I see transparent graphic artifacts left in the background. They disappear if I move another window over the artifacts.

They are very subtle and barely visible unless you look closely.

---

### Post by pissedoffdude on 2017-11-17
Any chance you can give this extension a shot [https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/277/impatience/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/277/impatience/) ?  To me, stock gnome3 feels a bit 'slow' but it's all subjective (and this may not be the issue).  Could be you're just used to quicker animations, so it'd be best to eliminate this if possible.

---

### Post by biz122 on 2017-11-17
I assure you, what I am seeing is not animations. Didnt I mentioned that I turned them off?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-11-17
> **pissedoffdude said:**
> Any chance you can give this extension a shot [https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/277/impatience/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/277/impatience/) ?  To me, stock gnome3 feels a bit 'slow' but it's all subjective (and this may not be the issue).  Could be you're just used to quicker animations, so it'd be best to eliminate this if possible.
 

This "speed up" just makes animation very jerky and I ended up removing it on Fedora*.* GS sucks if you need random extensions for  almost all core functionalities and these extensions may break from one release to he next since GS changes its API randomly breaking backward compatibility. extension.gnome.org is full of broken and un maintained extensions. For me this is a reason to go for another DE.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-11-17
> **biz122 said:**
> 
Me having used Unity for a very long time have no clue what to expect from Gnome - perhaps it is generally slow compared to Unity, and what I am seeing is not an issue?

GS is slow comparing to unity and other DEs that is an on going issue. though your description seems unusually slow even for GS. 

BTW you can easily run unity in 17.10 even though it is not installed by default
```
sudo apt install unity-session xserver-xorg-input-synaptics

```

Then reboot and you will have an option to log into unity. If you don't use Wayland you can in addition install lightdm and you will get the unity login screen as well.  I am on unity in 17.10 and it is smooth and problem free.

---

### Post by biz122 on 2017-11-18
For me personally, the *solution* is to continue with Unity.

I have exhausted every idea that I can think of at this moment. The lagging is not going away, and it gets in the way of work when everything I do on the desktop is delayed with a few 100-milliseconds.

If it is indeed **Gnome** that is the root of the problems here - are them gnome-devs aware of that **performance is very important**? I am running on a laptop here but it is pretty high-end..

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-11-18
> **biz122 said:**
> 

If it is indeed **Gnome** that is the root of the problems here - are them gnome-devs aware of that **performance is very important**? I am running on a laptop here but it is pretty high-end..

Gnome-devs are aware, this has been an ongoing complaint. But gnome-devs are not keen on listening to users.

---

### Post by Oinos on 2017-11-19
I also have issues with newly installed 17.10 - in system monitor the *gnome-shell* process regularly takes 90%+ of the CPU and seemingly always 50%+ - even though I have 8 CPUs and 8GB RAM. It's so bad even the cursor is often laggy. Is there any prospective this will be fixed, or should I just switch to 16.04 for the time being?

---

### Post by speartip on 2017-11-19
This is the reason I am disappointed with the discontinuation of Unity. It may have had it's issues but it was streets ahead of gnome-shell IMO.
 The lag & lack of smoothness in the graphics are what made me abandon Gnome in favour of an XFCE/KDE Neon dual boot.
 KDE Neon in particular is a breath of fresh air with its speed and lack of resource hog. In fact after login, the latest 17.10 uses nearly 3 times the memory of Neon. Plasma 5 seems to be the way to go at the moment, particularly sticking to their LTS branch which is at 5.8.8 at the moment.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-11-19
> **speartip said:**
> This is the reason I am disappointed with the discontinuation of Unity. It may have had it's issues but it was streets ahead of gnome-shell 

But like I said you can easily run Unity in 17.10 and most likely in 18.04, some Canonical devs are helping to keep it viable and it would help if more users participate in testing and using it. I was told in the development forum that there is a chance for a unity flavour for 18.04.

---

### Post by speartip on 2017-11-20
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> But like I said you can easily run Unity in 17.10 and most likely in 18.04, some Canonical devs are helping to keep it viable and it would help if more users participate in testing and using it. I was told in the development forum that there is a chance for a unity flavour for 18.04.

The problem is, I am sure I've read somewhere, that although Unity can still be installed, because of changes to Gnome, & the lack of development for Unity, it is liable to be far less reliable & stable.
 If someone picks up the baton, & decides to keep developing Unity, I will give it a go in 18.04. Until then I will stick with XFCE.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2017-11-20
> **biz122 said:**
> If it is indeed **Gnome** that is the root of the problems here - are them gnome-devs aware of that **performance is very important**? I am running on a laptop here but it is pretty high-end..

Not every person with Gnome suffers from laggy performance. Many do not.
The Gnome developers, for example, do not...or they would have identified and fixed it.

Others have had a different experience, but I have found the Gnome devs to be friendly and open...when you present a problem or idea to them in terms they understand (just like everybody else). They don't listen to rants, they don't listen to un-triaged or un-reproducible bugs, they don't listen to drive-by ideas that aren't backed up with some code. In other words, they're like every other development team.

If you firmly believe Gnome is the problem, then please do the troubleshooting and help the Gnome developers reproduce the problem on one of their test systems. If they cannot reproduce it, they cannot fix it.


> **speartip said:**
> The problem is, I am sure I've read somewhere, that although Unity can still be installed, because of changes to Gnome, & the lack of development for Unity, it is liable to be far less reliable & stable.
 If someone picks up the baton, & decides to keep developing Unity, I will give it a go in 18.04. Until then I will stick with XFCE.

Several volunteers have picked up the baton and are working hard toward Unity in 18.04.
They welcome help.

---

### Post by biz122 on 2017-11-20
So, I did continue to search for a solution out of interest, and I found this [bug]("https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=102199"). There is a lot of technicalities in there, most of it I don't understand. It does suggest however that Kabylake systems have issues with upclocking the cpu or gpu during tasks.

I do have a mobile Kabylake system.

Perhaps this is it then? A temporary issue of some sort that eventually will be solved?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2017-11-20
Good research!
Perhaps that thread will come to fruition.
Perhaps that bug is really one you are suffering from.
...perhaps not. There may (or may not) be multiple causes for a slow Gnome desktop. It's complex system.

---

