---
title: "10.04 LTS: Install Hangs, Partitioning Hangs, It Just Hangs."
date: 2010-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MalachiAD on 2010-05-21
Hi there, 

I've checked around the forums here but I haven't found this exact issue anywhere yet. I have been trying to install Ubuntu 10.04 LTS and it has been giving me some issues. I've installed past versions of Ubuntu (9.04, 8.10, ect...) flawlessly, but since 10.XX it has been strange and very uncooperative.

First, I tried to install from the CD. On this PC, because the CD/DVD-RW is on SATA, I keep getting a return that the media does not contain a live media bootable. I was able to get to the installer on a different PC that had a DVD-RW connected on a IDE though, but it ended up hanging at 5% during partitioning a drive. (Checksum says disc is fine.)

So I decided to go around that. I 'burned' it to a PNY 8gb Flash Drive I had, and started the install from there. Well, it got to the partitioning and hung up at the same 5% it did on the other PC.

Last thing I tried was installing it inside Windows 7 here on this PC, and it ended up going fine, then at 25% into copying the files needed for the installation AFTER the reboot, it hung up again.

Both computers are well over the specs required to run it.

++ I'll also note that just as a test, I tried Ubuntu Studio 10.04 on both PC's and the CD was treated the same way. Worked on one, but not on the SATA drive. I've done other builds of Linux flawlessly also using the same methods.

---

### Post by DLGirl08 on 2010-06-23
I, too, have had (basically) the same problem. I've installed previous versions flawlessly on several PCs,
and had only minor, user-error problems installing 9.04 and 9.10 on my current. But this one...

I ran it in Live mode from a USB flash drive, it took literally an hour to load (after the Ubuntu splash screen
came up), but it worked okay for a few minutes, until it froze. I tried booting several times, even tried a few
times in Persistent mode, and finally managed to get it up in Persistent mode. I went online to watch a few
videos for a bit, and check my email, since I was bored half to death from all the waiting. It hung soon thereafter,
and I haven't been able to get it to come up without crashing since. Even if I do nothing, when I tell it to shut
down, it hangs or ignores the command. It refuses to open many folders with no error returned, and when opening
some files that checked out okay on two versions of Windows, I get I/O read errors, and some of those files have
become unreadable on Windows.

I figured, maybe the problem was running it from the USB (IDK why, I just did). So, I tried installing from an 8GB
Cruzer (Micro M3) flash drive; the installation was going fine, but taking a while, so I left the room whilst it was
formatting my hard drive. I came back about 30 minutes later, and all the windows were gone, only the desktop
background remained, and there was no response from the system. I waited another 30 minutes, and still nothing, so I
did a hard reboot. I got through the POST routine, system went to boot from C, which was reported as bootable (so
Lucid was kind enough to set the Bootable flag), but got nothing from C drive, so I shut down and haven't tried again
since.

My system specs may be a little old, but they run Karmic fine, and I've never had a problem with installing any
other OS (with regards to system specs) until now. My processor is an AMD, but it is x86 compatible; previous
versions of Ubuntu for x86 architecture installed and worked fine on it. I know AMD's architecture is different
from Intel's but I swear x86 specific stuff works fine on it.

AMD 2600+ 2.6 GHz
768 RAM
nVidia GeForce MX4 64MB
DVD-ROM drive is not currently an option, as I'm experiencing a temporary shortage of IDE cables...

The files check out okay, but should I re-download anyways? Or perhaps upgrading isn't for me? It would seem to
me that freezing and the like wouldn't be related to my old hardware, rather, the new code...

</wall-o'-text>

Thank you for reading; I hope someone somewhere can find a solution to these problems.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-23
mini howto: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9216264&postcount=14)

---

