---
title: "14.04 why no photos on googleearth ?"
date: 2015-05-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by okkie2 on 2015-05-18
my latest download of googleearth will not open photos. is there something I can do ?

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2015-05-18
What version of Ubuntu are you using? What version of Google Earth did you install?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-05-18
See post #27 & 28 on this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2196304&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2196304&page=3)

BTW basic GE is deprecated, Google has discontinued GE and is porting its functionalities to the browser based google map so I wouldn't even bother with GE anymore. 
GE pro is now free but doesn't work on Linux,--the run file from its Linux dl link  is some hideous looking wine version of basic GE, not GE pro. :(  At least back in Feb when I checked it out.

---

### Post by okkie2 on 2015-05-18
14.04 as mentioned at the top of page

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2015-05-18
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> See post #27 & 28 on this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2196304&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2196304&page=3)

BTW basic GE is deprecated, Google has discontinued GE and is porting its functionalities to the browser based google map so I wouldn't even bother with GE anymore. 
GE pro is now free but doesn't work on Linux,--the run file from its Linux dl link  is some hideous looking wine version of basic GE, not GE pro. :(  At least back in Feb when I checked it out.
+1
> **okkie2 said:**
> 14.04 as mentioned at the top of page
That's not what I've asked. I wanted to know if you're on a 32-bit or 64-bit system and what Google Earth version did you installed.

---

### Post by okkie2 on 2015-05-19
Its 64 bit version and I notice now that I have GE 32 bit installed. will try to get 64 bit downloaded and report back.
Thanks

I now found a post by David Ramsy regarding this problem and it is solved 
Thanks

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-12-12
> **okkie2 said:**
> I now found a post by David Ramsy regarding this problem and it is solved 
Thanks

Post a link, please.
And if you feel this thread is done, perhaps mark it as solved.

---

### Post by okkie2 on 2016-01-16
not as solved as I thought. I am still battling to see the photos

---

