---
title: "9.10 on an old Dimension 2350?"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 2roombas on 2009-10-30
Has anyone successfully gotten 9.10 on a Dimension 2350?  Yes, my desktop is that old! 

I have 9.10 running perfectly on my laptop and my mini, but three times  now after trying to install it on the old relic, it crashed and had to have  reliable 9.04 re-installed.  I loved Karmic though, the increased speed and upgraded programs was so nice.  But it would just crash, sigh,  after the next reboot.:(

---

### Post by Grim76 on 2009-10-30
Did you happen to try the alternate install CD maybe that might help?

Also are you sure that the disc that you are using is good? (MD5SUMs match)

---

### Post by 2roombas on 2009-10-30
> **Grim76 said:**
> Did you happen to try the alternate install CD maybe that might help?

Also are you sure that the disc that you are using is good? (MD5SUMs match)
 
What is the alternate install CD?

Eaxh time I simply did an upgrade via update manager.  First when the Beta was our.... crash, so reinstalled 9.04.  Then I tried again with the RC.... crash, so reinstalled 9.04.  Then just yesterday I tried the release..... and yet again had to reinstall Jaunty.:(

---

### Post by lswb on 2009-10-30
Increase the ram to 1GB and likley you will have no problems.

---

### Post by 2roombas on 2009-10-30
> **lswb said:**
> Increase the ram to 1GB and likley you will have no problems.

Nope... because that computer "does" have 1 gb ram on it akready.  The ram has been mazed on it months ago.  I guess that computer will just have to remain 9.04.  That's ok, it works.  Just wondered if anyone has had success on these oldies.

---

### Post by Monotoko on 2009-10-30
Try a clean install of 9.10, upgrades can often go dodgy

---

### Post by UranUtan on 2009-10-30
> **2roombas said:**
> Has anyone successfully gotten 9.10 on a Dimension 2350?  Yes, my desktop is that old!(

Specs say that this computer is fit with CPU Pentium 4 from 1.80, 2.00, 2.40, or 2.50 GHz. And I see that you have 1 GHz of RAM. This is not an old computer! I run Ubuntu OK on Pentium 3, 1 GHz, 768 MB Ram. A little bit slow, but was doing OK so far.

---

### Post by 2roombas on 2009-10-30
With a clean install from a liveCD today, so far so good.  

Very cool... fingers crossed!

---

### Post by UKBB on 2009-10-30
I just did a clean install on a Dimension 4600 with 512 meg of ram and it is running great.

---

### Post by elektrikhd on 2009-11-20
I have a 2350 as well, and I've been trying to get ANY version of Linux to work properly on it. I'm transitioning away from Windows, and installed Ubuntu 9.10, which ran, but would randomly freeze. Best recommendation I heard was to do a clean install of 8.10, but that doesn't make it past logging in.

I have a 2.2ghz Celeron, 512mb ram, and just the on-board video.

It sounds like 9.04 might be a good way to go, though. Is there anything special I need to do? (I'm a Linux noob, so use small words and talk slowly :P I'm not afraid to try difficult things, though.)

---

### Post by 2roombas on 2009-11-20
> **elektrikhd said:**
> I have a 2350 as well, and I've been trying to get ANY version of Linux to work properly on it. I'm transitioning away from Windows, and installed Ubuntu 9.10, which ran, but would randomly freeze. Best recommendation I heard was to do a clean install of 8.10, but that doesn't make it past logging in.

I have a 2.2ghz Celeron, 512mb ram, and just the on-board video.

It sounds like 9.04 might be a good way to go, though. Is there anything special I need to do? (I'm a Linux noob, so use small words and talk slowly :P I'm not afraid to try difficult things, though.)

My noob-experience was with 8.04, and that version worked grea for me. That was my turning point to get rid of windows entirely and go 100% linux on my computers. No regrets at all!;)

I then tried 8.10 when it came out, but that version didn't work for me, so I went back to 8.04 and just waited for the 9.04 release.  The 9.04 release I did as a fresh install from the Live CD and it went without a hitch. I think there was a little work around I had to do to get videos working properly (no grey box), but the forums here have been extremely helpful for me. That was an easy fix.

I'm once again as I type this in fact trying an upgrade to 9.10 on this desktop. My two speedier laptops run it just fine, but the 2350 here randomly freezes as you mention. Annoying!  I'm not sure if it'll work this time either, but I have the 9.04 Lice CD to reinstall that on this desktop if I need to.

---

