---
title: "9.4 low resolution / 9.10 no wireless ???"
date: 2010-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PoloniusMonk on 2010-04-21
I have an HP dv8826br laptop with the nVidia chipset.
When I install Ubuntu 9.4 I have wireless (Broadcom 4328) but the screen resolution is maxed out at 800 x 600. Tried many DL;s to correct this, no luck.
So, I installed Ubuntu 9.10, which fixed the screen res. problem, but now I have no wireless. I have searched both discs to find a way to install either the video driver to the 9.5 install, or the wireless to the 9.10. I don't care which version I use, I'd just like one of them to work. Any help will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by 666f6f on 2010-04-21
Hello PoloniusMonk, welcome to the forums.

I think it's easier to fix your wireless than to fix your video display. Broadcom 43xx wireless network card are known to work under Ubuntu. Have a look at the relevant wiki page here [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx).

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by akakingess on 2010-04-21
Have you checked to see which kernel is being installed with them? The reason I ask is usually that kind of built-in support for hardware is done via the kernel, so you may want to install 9.10 again and then make sure that you are doing the proper updates to bring it up to the most recently supported kernel. Other than that, I can't see a reason that a previous version would support anything that a newer one wouldn't (it does happen sometimes, but is usually corrected with the kernel updates). To see what version of kernel you are running (if you can't tell from the GRUB menu) is to run "uname -a" without the quotes of course within the terminal. Let us know what you find and let's see if we can get you up and running. The worst case, you could install 9.04 (which has the internet support) and then run I believe an "update -d" without the quotes which will download and install the latest available distrobution (I haven't done that myself so hopefully someone will correct me if I am wrong, or you could do a "man update" to get the options). Sorry for the lengthy reply, just trying to cover all of the bases.

---

### Post by PoloniusMonk on 2010-04-22
uname-a shows this:
2.6.31-14-generic #48-Ubuntu SMP Fri Oct 16 14:04:26 UTC 2009 i686 GNH/Linux.

bcm4238 is listed on both versions, 9.4 and 9.10, but the wireless only works in 9.4 (I have both versions installed on 2 separate partitions and thought that I might be able to move the working file to the non-working OS, but don't know if that's possible.)

Looked at the bcm wiki and it doesn't mention the 4238 card.

Ran these:
sudo aptitude updatesudo aptitude install bcmwl-kernel-source

Restarted ...  and Voila! I have wireless!

666f6f nailed it. Thanks very much for the help.
A totally useless HP dv9925nr laptop, trying to run on XP,
has been turned into a very nice, fully functional, desktop replacement.
Ubuntu Rocks!

---

### Post by 666f6f on 2010-04-22
> **PoloniusMonk said:**
> Ubuntu Rocks!

Yeah, that's the spirit! ^^

---

