---
title: "10.10 top panel network icon is gone"
date: 2010-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tech7 on 2010-11-22
I just installed this mornings updates and when I powered back up my computer, the network icon on the top panel is gone.  The one that is shaped like a piece of pie and you can click on to connect to a network.  I've restarted the computer a couple times and it's still gone.  Does anybody know anything about this or how I can get the icon back???  I actually use that thing.  Thanks, everybody!!!

---

### Post by germanix on 2010-11-22
Try right click on the panel. Choose "add to panel" from the drop down menu. Choose the missing icon you need from the list. it should be back. Move it to where you want and lock to panel.

---

### Post by tech7 on 2010-11-22
I had tried that several times.  there is not actually a network manager in the list with a network icon.  What I had read was that it was the "system information" applet that has to be added; which worked, for a little while.  Then, later, it went away again.  I had successfully readded it a few more times, then that stopped working too.  I recently added the "run an application by typing a command or choosing from a list" applet to my panel and now run 'nm-applet' to get the network connection manager to pop-up on my panel so i can manage my internet connection, as I am frequently having to do so where I'm at.

---

### Post by subjucha on 2010-11-28
The same problem!
**germanix**, there isn't network manager applet among applets, but in Ubuntu 10.10 it is a part of Notification Area applet.

I've read a lot of reports about this bug. I've tried offered solutions like edit managed=false to managed=true in nm-system-settings.conf.

I did **dpkg-reconfigure network-manager** in Unity desktop (Ubuntu Netbook Desktop) and indicator of network manager appeared after reboot in Unity. But not in the normal desktop which I use.

My system is updated Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook. I think I will have to reinstall system in view of this problem.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-11-28
Try refreshing your panel icons

```
killall gnome-panel
```

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-11-28
Or try Alt + F2 and type in nm-applet and hit enter

---

### Post by subjucha on 2010-12-02
karthick87, Quackers,
Thank you for advices but it didn't help.

I've solved my problem by entering in terminal:
```
gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel
```
and then pressing Alt+F1.

Top panel become to the initial look, like after installing the system, with network indicator.

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-12-02
Mark this thread as [COLOR=Red][SOLVED][/COLOR]

---

### Post by david.flights on 2011-04-18
**subjucha**

Solution worked perfectly. Thanks!

---

### Post by atmjeet on 2011-04-18
thanks!
it solved th missing applets problem.. :):D

---

### Post by shakma on 2011-04-26
.

---

### Post by shakma on 2011-04-26
Perfection!

Thank you so much for this solution.  I run standard gnome desktop (not unity) on my EeePC, and my notification icons sometimes move and disappear randomly at boot.  This last time I had lost the network icon completely, and have been living with out it for a month!

Now I have a one-line command to fix this when it happens again (as I'm sure it will).  Is everyone experiencing this running a netbook?

Peace.

---

