---
title: "bash scripting help"
date: 2006-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2006-11-25
I originally posted this in the programming section, but have received no response, so I'll try here...

I am trying my hand at automating a backup script in BASH.
I can copy all the system directories and personal documents no problem.

What is stumping me is I want to copy all the hidden configuration files in my Home Directory, but I want to exclude certain directories. ( like .Trash)

So instead of specifying every file that I want to copy, I want to blanket-copy everything, but exclude certain files and folders.

Can someone point me in the right direction?

Also currently I am completely backing up the following system directories:
/bin, /boot, /dev, /etc, /sbin, /usr/bin, /usr/sbin

Are there any others that I should be backing up, or any in this list that don't need to be backed up?

Thanks in advance for the help and advice.

---

### Post by skymt on 2006-11-25
The easy way to copy everything but a few files is to copy everything, then delete what you don't want:```
cp /home/user /media/backup/home/user
cd /media/backup/home/user
rm -r .Trash
```

If that's too clunky (if, for example, you have several gigs in .Trash), let me know and I'll try to hack something up with grep and xargs.

You shouldn't backup /dev. It isn't "real", it's dynamically generated by the Linux kernel. /boot and the various bin directories are probably not good to back up. You should let the package manager handle everything in there. If you have custom scripts/programs to back up, they belong in "/usr/local/bin". /etc is probably good to back up.

---

### Post by nixclusive on 2006-11-25
here's a new way:
```

cd <directory where backup lies>
tar cv --exclude=.Trash $HOME | tar x

``` btw the files in /dev are generated at boot-time by the initrd.

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2006-11-26
thank you for your help. I've got it working now.

---

