---
title: "12.04 LTS problem with external drive"
date: 2013-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by georgesgiralt on 2013-05-22
Hello !
I've a strange behaviour I need clarification for :
I own a big tower PC running 12.04 LTS kept current, yesterday, I wanted to do some backups, so I connected to it using ssh and did a ```
sudo -s
``` to gain root power. Then I plugged the external USB disk (which was seen as /dev/sdd and it's partition as /dev/sdd1). I then did an fsck because this drive didn't get used for a very long time (it is Ext4 file system, last use was more than a year's old).
I then, as root, mounted it under /mnt and started dumping the various file systems onto it. So far so good. 
My wife logged in on this machine using the graphical Gnome desktop, and this broke the dump process.
Why ?
Because the desktop process dismounted the /mnt mount point, made a new USB search and mounted the newly found /dev/sde drive (/dev/sde1) under /media/<filesystem-label> ....
Could you please help understand why is that, how I can change this brain dead behaviour and ask a graphical tool to do what's it's good at : graphical dispaly ?
Many thanks in advance for your help and advice.
P.S. I've 30 + years of Unix/Linux administration skills.

---

### Post by andrekp on 2013-05-22
I don't see anything obvious, but I'm just chiming in to note that I've also seen some odd behaviour related to mounted FS's lately.  (Opening Nautilus when drive mounted, deleting mount point when drive unmounted, etc.)

Something HAS changed.  I've just been living with the annoyances, but I suspect UDEV or whatever on Ubuntu now does things like this "as a "feature."  It does not happen on my non-Ubuntu systems.  What you saw looks like another example (though I would consider your issue an actual bug - linux is a multiuser system, it should never affect one user with the actions of another).

---

