---
title: "10.04 freezes at login screen"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by a mad pigeon on 2010-04-29
Sorry for bothering since there are tons of other questions on release day, but I have installed 10.04 LTS x86_64 on my Compaq laptop and once it hits the login screen the system becomes completely unresponsive, plus the startup sound plays 3 times. Can anyone help? Thank you

---

### Post by Mad dog on 2010-04-29
I assume you ran a checksum on your download and your burnt cd (if that's the route you took)?

---

### Post by a mad pigeon on 2010-04-29
Yes, I checked... Do you think it could be because I tried to encrypt the home folder? I haven't done that in the previous releases.

---

### Post by lunaparadox on 2010-04-29
I'm having freezing issues as well but not at login. but when opening synaptic. and when opening rhythm box. was having freezing during install process as well. checked disk and all was ok with it. oh well back in 9.10 for the night and maybe some solution will present itself.

---

### Post by i3oricua on 2010-05-01
I'm having the same problem on login, fresh ubuntu install and the intro drum sound just keeps repeating.  If anyone has found a solution I would really appreciate it.

Edgar

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-01
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
sudo dpkg-reconfigure plymouth

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get install -f

sudo grub-mkconfig && update-grub

run each of these commands one by one into console

---

### Post by jplinderman on 2010-05-01
> **a mad pigeon said:**
> Sorry for bothering since there are tons of other questions on release day, but I have installed 10.04 LTS x86_64 on my Compaq laptop and once it hits the login screen the system becomes completely unresponsive, plus the startup sound plays 3 times. Can anyone help? Thank you
My two dell desktops, one 64-bit, one 32-bit, both NVIDIA video cards, got blank screens (but sounds) after the grub boot.  I had to install the NVIDIA drivers

System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

but that can only be done via gui (as far as I know), so there's a chicken and egg problem.  I solved it by using a VGA card for the NVIDIA installation.  Then my DVI and HDMI ports started working again.  Prior to that, my ASUS monitor would report No SIgnal on both the DVI and HDMI inputs, even though the install was done over the DVI input.  -- jpl

---

### Post by sergik128 on 2010-05-01
I have similar problem but trying to boot from Live CD (I haven't tried to install it yet). Just a low-res screen with Ubuntu logo with five dots and then monitor goes to sleep. Ctrl-Alt-Del doesn't help, so I have to power down my PC.

My configuration:
Asus P6T, Core i7 920 (no overclock), 6Gb Corsair, ATI Radeon 5850 (Asus, no overclock)

 - I checked CD for errors in Ubuntu 10.04 menu (no errors)
 - I tried nomodeset option alone and several others from F6 menu (didn't help)
 - I tried the same CD on my very old Pentium M laptop and my other Core 2 Duo desktop and it worked fine.
 - I tried Ubuntu's previous 9.10 Live CD on the same machine and it worked fine.

I burnt CD using native capability of Win7 as advised by Ubuntu howto page.

So I don't really know what to do next... I probably won't be trying to install it until this and other issues (with grub config and loading to another OS) are resolved...

---

### Post by Eycks on 2010-05-01
I just upgraded to 10.04 from 9.10. When I get to the login screen and login the login screen reappears. I never am able to get past the login screen.

---

### Post by i3oricua on 2010-05-01
> **dino99 said:**
> sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
sudo dpkg-reconfigure plymouth

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get install -f

sudo grub-mkconfig && update-grub

run each of these commands one by one into console

Thanks, but this didn't work.  The only way I can login into Ubuntu is to click my screen name and type my password as fast as I can before it locks up on the login screen.  Once I'm in, everything operates fine.  Matter of fact I'm typing this message from it.  I've tried updating the packages and everything, I'm out of ideas.

Edgar

---

### Post by jplinderman on 2010-05-01
> **Eycks said:**
> I just upgraded to 10.04 from 9.10. When I get to the login screen and login the login screen reappears. I never am able to get past the login screen.

I had this happen on an earlier Ubuntu install.  Turns out I had replaced my original .profile with one I had been using elsewhere, and there were commands in it that caused login to choke and exit (although I vaguely recall that there were messages about premature termination).  I think I was able to straighten things out with a safe login.  Now I always create a "dummy user" (jplu) for the install, and add the real me (jpl) after installation is complete, so the jplu account doesn't get tampered with, and can be used to get in if I toast my real login.  -- jpl

---

### Post by prabath_fun on 2010-05-02
My mouse and keyboard wont responds when try to select language during installation or after live boot. Any solution to get it cleared. I downloaded Ubuntu 10.04 through bit torrent.

My system is intel core 2 duo based system with realtek graphics inbuilt to intel motherboard.

---

### Post by markder on 2010-05-03
I have a Compaq Presario CQ50 that I'm having the same problem with. The keyboard and trackpad are unresponsive at the login. I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 using the package manager.

---

### Post by ThePhotoGuy on 2010-05-03
I have the same problem (I have the Compaq Presario CQ61, With Radeon Hd 4200 graphics).

---

### Post by markder on 2010-05-04
I was able to fix my problem; here's what I did:

I held shift when the laptop was starting up and it gave me the Grub menu. I selected the recovery mode for the latest kernel. Then I hit the 'dpkg - Repair broken packages' option and it had to install x-org and x-org core or something. But after that it's working great now. It has the 195 nVidia driver and runs perfecto. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by VonDerBra on 2010-05-05
> **markder said:**
> I have a Compaq Presario CQ50 that I'm having the same problem with. The keyboard and trackpad are unresponsive at the login. I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 using the package manager.

I have got the same problem. My machine is laptop Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo Pentium 4 3Ghz. It worked fine with Ubuntu 9. 

But my mouse freezes at login, keyboard does not respond, and when it does, it keeps repeating a*d nauseam* the last key I have pressed...

It looks to me like some process is not freeing the memory of the computer.

I dont know what to do next. I tried to wipe the HDD, and to reinstall it, but I am completely unable to do so, since the install CD is jammed at the first question of the install process, and the mouse is unresponsive. 

Basically, version 10.04 turned my computer into a brick.

Any hints, please?

Cheers,

---

### Post by prabath_fun on 2010-05-06
I got live (CD) boot working by following way as I was facing keyboard and mouse were freezing during language selection while trying to install / live CD boot without any "other options"

1. As soon as BIOS screen cleared press down or up key with live CD in drive.
2. Selected "english" as language.
3. gone to "other options" and selected all.
4. booted without any problem...
5. I was working for 30 minutes without any problem. As, I cannot install any software under live boot, I shutdown the system and went back to 9.10 installed on hard disk....

I dont know how to install Ubuntu10.04 with all this options to avoid freezing mouse and keyboard....

Any hint.,    Kindly help me.....

---

### Post by VonDerBra on 2010-05-07
Still stuck with my brick. I am not an expert with Ubuntu...

Anyone who may help?

---

### Post by Eycks on 2010-05-09
> **jplinderman said:**
> I had this happen on an earlier Ubuntu install.  Turns out I had replaced my original .profile with one I had been using elsewhere, and there were commands in it that caused login to choke and exit (although I vaguely recall that there were messages about premature termination).  I think I was able to straighten things out with a safe login.  Now I always create a "dummy user" (jplu) for the install, and add the real me (jpl) after installation is complete, so the jplu account doesn't get tampered with, and can be used to get in if I toast my real login.  -- jpl

Can you give us an example of a correct .profile?  Also I am a newbe and would appreciate the path to the .profile

---

### Post by jeff35 on 2010-05-12
i just got in to my ubuntu 10.04. I went to recovery, and selected graphicalsafe mode. the selected login to ubuntu onetime. 

At the login screen selected other user, and typed my main user id.
then password. and boom its on. 

I had to do a new install of 8.10to get the right grub, trying to get 10.04 configured now with packages for modem compiling ect.

i had probs doing the side by side thing. doing a new box, wish me luck

---

### Post by prabath_fun on 2010-05-17
Bump....


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

My mouse and keyboard wont responds when try to select language during installation or after live boot. Any solution to get it cleared. I downloaded Ubuntu 10.04 through bit torrent.

My system is intel core 2 duo based system with realtek graphics inbuilt to intel motherboard.

---

### Post by lowracer on 2010-05-21
> **markder said:**
> I was able to fix my problem; here's what I did:

I held shift when the laptop was starting up and it gave me the Grub menu. I selected the recovery mode for the latest kernel. 

Had this same problem on my mother-in-law's compaq laptop.  Had to go back to the previous kernel which got me to a usable 10.04 system.  The dpkg -Repair thing didn't work because we didn't have any network connected.  It had to be the right shift key not the left key.

---

### Post by faflu on 2010-05-22
I have the same issue after upgrade from 8.04 to 10.04. In the meantime I fought with broken install of flashplugin-nonfree package. I fixed this but it didn't help with freezing system at logon screen. Only failsafe works - but this is not a solution.
I think this topic gets not enough attention as it is not in the install/upgrade forum group.

---

### Post by Painsysa on 2010-05-24
I also have the same problem! This is very irritating that I can't use this lovely product Ubuntu has without it freezing on the login screen. I hope to get this resolved ASAP!

---

### Post by prabath_fun on 2010-05-26
Hi,
  Just to verify, I downloaded Fedora 13 live CD and had a try today morning. Without any problem, it got booted. 
  After sometime, I enabled compiz and system become slow. So, hope Ubuntu 10.04 is not getting loaded due to compiz which is default enable.
  I am not expert in linux and may be whatever I referred may not be correct also. This is my observation only with other distro.....

---

### Post by prabath_fun on 2010-06-08
Hi,
   I received Ubuntu 10.04 Ultimate Edition from one of the Linux based magazine. I got the same live booted with my PC. Only thing, workes slow. takes ~25 seconds to open, minimize or maximize the applications. Other than that, no problem. Since, I was not happy with befault theme of the distro, I have not installded. I tried changing theme, but, it was not updating widow bar in live boot. 
   Any update in this regard???

---

### Post by Eycks on 2010-07-03
Hi, When I try to log in to 10.04 through the GUI I get an authentication failed message.  When I log in using the recovery screen I get can log in so I know my user id and password are correct.  I also have XP and 9.10 on the machine and both work.  The XP and 10.04 are on the boot disk, sda while 9.08 is on sdb.  I have tried most of the suggestions and none work.  Also when I log in to 10.04 using the recovery screen one of the choices is dpkg which I have run so 10.04 is up to date.  Any suggestions would be helpful. Thanks

---

### Post by jmelcon on 2010-12-10
Hi
After the last update I've made in my Ubuntu 10.04 I can't log in.

When I start Ubuntu 10.04 it seems to wiork and reachs te startuo screen (user selection menu). But this screen is absolutely frozen. I can't move the mouse, nor the cursior with the arrows. In I press CapsLock or NumLock the pilot ligts doeens't change, as it the complete PC was frozen.

My PC is Toshiba TECRA A11 with Windows 7. I've installed Ubuntu 9 with grub and it has worked fine for several months until this later update.

I've tried to start in recovery and with alder jernel versions but I got the pc frozen each time.

¿What can I do?

Thanks

---

### Post by mennowo on 2010-12-12
Also posted this reply in [this thread]("http://ca.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10116413"). Surprised this issue is unresolved, since [so many people]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/576352") seem to have this problem! Therefore, it seems not to be an issue of graphics drivers or hardware or kernel or distribution...

---post---

Hi,

I have this exact same problem. It seems to be getting worse: first was  only sometimes, and the screen showed a few lines of stange pixels in  the top of the screen, that changed color when pressing a key. Now, no  reaction at all, also no pixels.

When it does work, if I get past this point and to the login screen, all is fine.

Running: Ubuntu Studio 10.04 64 bit, with ATI HD4850 graphics card, using drivers provided by ATI.

Any ideas appreciated!

Menno.

---

### Post by jmelcon on 2010-12-12
There are some differences:
- I haven't seen any kind of problem in my Ubuntu system. I've been working fine untill the last automatic update I've done.
- In my case Ubuntu NEVER starts. Allways freeze al te user selection screen.
I've tried to start from previous kernel, but the result is allways the same.

But the main point at the moment, for me, is days go and I can't use it. I must go to  windows to operate my laptop. Then, if I must build the complete configuration in windows i would left Ubuntu. 

I'm dissaponted because I can't use my system, but also because I've benn recommending Ubuntu to some friends and customers and It will be no nice if I give up.

---

