---
title: "16.04LTS - How to Remove Something from Updates?"
date: 2017-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by frank85 on 2017-05-10
Another problem I've been having is a file which will not update, and which I no longer want. How to get rid of it? When I run apt-get update I find this in the list: 

"The repository 'http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/klaussfreire:/debian/xUbuntu_14.04  Release' is not signed."

Great... I think it was for a game, or something. I don't care if it doesn't update because I don't want it any more. How do I get rid of it? My Linux-fu is weak.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2017-05-10
Managing your sources is very easy. 

System Settings ==> Software & Updates ==> Other Software

Delete the repository there.

Er, it's unwise to add non-Ubuntu sources until you are skilled at managing sources and resolving package conflicts.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2017-05-11
you can also just untick it.

---

### Post by frank85 on 2017-05-11
> **ian-weisser said:**
> Managing your sources is very easy. 

System Settings ==> Software & Updates ==> Other Software

Delete the repository there.

Er, it's unwise to add non-Ubuntu sources until you are skilled at managing sources and resolving package conflicts.

Good advice, thanks! I'll probably need your advice on something else - that is, what should I remove here? I'm not even sure what any of this is:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]275068[/ATTACH]

And this:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]275069[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-05-11
> **frank85 said:**
> Good advice, thanks! I'll probably need your advice on something else - that is, what should I remove here? I'm not even sure what any of this is:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/CUrb8kN.png?1[/IMG]

And this:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/RmEPvjf.png[/IMG]
You can also upload images to the forum directly by clicking on the paperclip icon above the text box in which you compose your post. If you don't see the paperclip icon, click on *Go Advanced* below the text box in which you compose your post. 

Uploading images this way instead of posting links to third party sites is preferable. See #4 in [Posting Guidelines]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2158945&p=12713419#post12713419").

---

### Post by frank85 on 2017-05-12
@vasa1 

Done, thanks. I was looking for a different way to post the images, but couldn't find it.

---

### Post by frank85 on 2017-05-26
can anyone help with this?

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-05-26
> **frank85 said:**
> can anyone help with this?

Which issue, or is it both ?

For the opensuse repository problem, there appears to be no repository for 16.04, therefore no key to authenticate it. Just remove the entry from your sources. If you need help with that post the output of the following terminal command..

```
egrep -v '^#|^ *$' /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.d/*
```

---

### Post by frank85 on 2017-06-06
> **howefield said:**
> Which issue, or is it both ?

For the opensuse repository problem, there appears to be no repository for 16.04, therefore no key to authenticate it. Just remove the entry from your sources. If you need help with that post the output of the following terminal command..

```
egrep -v '^#|^ *$' /etc/apt/sources.list /etc/apt/sources.list.d/*
```

Hey there! Thanks for helping. What I'm looking for help is problem #2 - the "Failure to download extra files" one. It's a popup window I get every time I log into ubuntu after checking for updates. I think wine-browser/silverlight/netflix desktop doesn't work anymore, and I tried to update it some time ago, but it's no longer supported. So I keep getting this message. I want it to stop. Can you help? :)

OK I cleaned up my updates from what was posted before to this (first by unchecking, and then removing those things.)

[ATTACH=CONFIG]275507[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-06-07
> **frank85 said:**
> I think wine-browser/silverlight/netflix desktop doesn't work anymore...

If it isn't working you may as well purge the packages..
eg

```
sudo apt purge netflix-desktop
```

---

### Post by frank85 on 2017-06-07
> **howefield said:**
> If it isn't working you may as well purge the packages..
eg

```
sudo apt purge netflix-desktop
```

Yeah, you see it keeps saying "failure to download packages" this happened after i last tried to update it - months ago! i don't even have netflix anymore. I'll try your fix. Hope it will work because that message is annoying.

I used it, and here is the results. Also, is it good to use autoremove once in a while to clean up the system?

```
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libgles1-mesa liblouisutdml-bin liblouisutdml-data liblouisutdml6
  libnetpbm10 linux-headers-4.4.0-75 linux-headers-4.4.0-75-generic
  linux-headers-4.4.0-77 linux-headers-4.4.0-77-generic
  linux-image-4.4.0-75-generic linux-image-4.4.0-77-generic
  linux-image-extra-4.4.0-75-generic linux-image-extra-4.4.0-77-generic netpbm
  python3-pexpect python3-pil python3-ptyprocess python3-renderpm
  python3-reportlab python3-reportlab-accel wine-silverlight5.1-installer
Use 'sudo apt autoremove' to remove them.
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  netflix-desktop*
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
(Reading database ... 599160 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing netflix-desktop (0.8.9-1~ubuntu14.04.1) ...
Purging configuration files for netflix-desktop (0.8.9-1~ubuntu14.04.1) ...


```

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-06-07
> **frank85 said:**
> i don't even have netflix anymore. I'll try your fix. Hope it will work because that message is annoying.

Use the purge command with the other two packages mentioned in the error as long as you are not using them for other applications.

> Also, is it good to use autoremove once in a while to clean up the system?

I'd say so, generally using autoremove is simply to remove packages that are doing not much more than taking up disk space although if you let old kernel packages build up to the point of running out of space in /boot you could end up with a bigger problem.

---

