---
title: "10.04 64bit sluggish"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by niite on 2010-05-03
I'm having some sluggish performance with the 64bit version of 10.04.  Had no problems with 9.10 - it zinged along just fine.  I have dual Nvidia 260M's, so there is definitely enough graphics horsepower there.   I did a clean install of 10.04 - after trying to upgrade from 9.10 (failed miserably).   The proprietary graphics driver it chose for me (185) didn't work, so I changed it to 173 and it works...    I might try to install the latest driver from Nvidia, but this appears to be a complicated chore with this release (with 9.10 was a breeze) - so looking for the motivation to do that.

Anyway - just wondering if anyone noticed specific performance issues with the 64bit version -- i've read a few posts on the net that seem to indicate i'm not alone in this.

Niite

---

### Post by netahoy on 2010-05-04
I too did a clean install of 10.04 64bit, rather than doing upgrade from 9.10 64bit, yet I also feel a major performance issue. I am on Lenovo Thinkstation w/4Gb and Nvidia Quadro FX570.
Specifically the jitter happens when reading RSS feeds on Liferea and browsing. will further do the testing with AV apps.

---

### Post by TheThek on 2010-05-21
I also have a larga dose of sluggishness on Lenovo Thinkpad T61 with Nvidia 140m, Intel T7100 processor and 3GB of RAM.Installed newest driver from repositories. Overall performance is much worse than on Dell D630 with similar processor, but X3100 gfx card. Both 64bit versions but Dell has ext3 partition and Lenovo ext4. On Lenovo I often can see high cpu usage (Xorg) and high disk activity. Even flipping windows is often sluggish.

---

