---
title: "###____ ~/.profile never executed at login ____###"
date: 2007-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by therealbrewer on 2007-06-16
Please help me figure out why this is happening.

I have two machines. One had Dapper upgraded to Edgy upgraded to Feisty, the other has fresh install of Feisty.

My understanding of login initialization is:

1) /etc/profile  is for system-wide environment variables -> thus available to all users
2) ~/.profile is for user environment variables -> for current user only, but available to all processes whether launched from x-term, menu, whatever.
3) ~/.bashrc is for (bash) terminal environment variables -> current user, applies only to processes launched from terminal

So, I wanted to set my $PATH for all processes, thus I added the following to ~/.profile:

```
source /opt/intel/fc/10.0.023/bin/ifortvars.sh
source /opt/intel/idb/10.0.023/bin/idbvars.sh
```

These are just scripts that set various environment variables for the Intel Fortran compiler.

Now, on the fresh install machine, this works fine. I can launch a program from the menu in Gnome and that program will see the path set by ~/.profile. Also, I can launch an x-term, and get 

```
echo $PATH
/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/opt/intel/fc/10.0.023/bin:/opt/intel/idb/10.0.023/bin
```

so the PATH is as it should be.

On the other machine, it doesn't work!! Programs launched from the menu can't see the modified path, nor can x-terms see it. (They can only see the PATH as found in /etc/environment.) Interestingly, if I then do this

```
. .profile
```

from an x-term, the PATH is OK. So since I can execute the file manually and get the needed results, it is clear that there is nothing wrong with the syntax, etc. Therefore I believe that ~/.profile is never being executed on that machine at login.

So, I have many questions:

What could cause ~/.profile to not be executed or to not be called?
Is there any way to trace the login sequence and see if ~/.profile is or is not called?
Would there be an error log somewhere?
How else can I figure out what is going on?
Suggestions?

I know that ~/.profile is not executed if ~/.bash_profile or ~/.bash_login exist, but neither of these files exist. Also, on the machine where this does not work, when I went to add the two lines above, I discovered that ~/.profile did not already exist. Thus I copied it from /etc/skel/ and then added the two lines. I don't really understand why that file would exist on one machine but not on the other, but nevertheless I can't see why ~/.profile shouldn't be executed just because I created it (permissions seem to be OK as far as I can tell).

Anyway I'm really stumped on this, and I suppose there are other ways of achieving the end result, but I would like to get to the root cause if possible.

Finally, if I add the two lines to /etc/profile, it still doesn't work! What is going on????

Thanks!

---

