---
title: ".ISO too big for DVD?"
date: 2006-08-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ~LoKe on 2006-08-21
I've got a 4.4GB ISO file that I'm trying to write to a 4.7GB DVD, but it's telling me I don't have enough room.  I've tried 4 different DVD's and I still get the problem.  I've been trying to burn it with right click - Write To Disc.

Would anyone happen to know why this is happening?

---

### Post by SlCKB0Y on 2006-08-21
use the command line.

---

### Post by ~LoKe on 2006-08-21
Still saying the DVD doesn't have enough space.

> loke@x04d:~$ sudo cdrecord /media/Files/dvd.iso
cdrecord: No write mode specified.
cdrecord: Asuming -tao mode.
cdrecord: Warning: Running on Linux-2.6.15-26-386
cdrecord: There are unsettled issues with Linux-2.5 and newer.
cdrecord: If you have unexpected problems, please try Linux-2.4 or Solaris.
scsidev: '/dev/cdrw'
devname: '/dev/cdrw'
scsibus: -2 target: -2 lun: -2
Warning: Open by 'devname' is unintentional and not supported.
Linux sg driver version: 3.5.27
Using libscg version 'debian-0.8debian2'.
cdrecord: Warning: using inofficial version of libscg (debian-0.8debian2 '@(#)scsitransp.c      1.91 04/06/17 Copyright 1988,1995,2000-2004 J. Schilling').
Device type    : Removable CD-ROM
Version        : 0
Response Format: 2
Capabilities   : 
Vendor_info    : 'SONY    '
Identifikation : 'DVD RW DRU-820A '
Revision       : '2.0c'
Device seems to be: Generic mmc2 DVD-R/DVD-RW.
cdrecord: Found DVD+ media but DVD+R/DVD+RW support code is missing.
cdrecord: If you need DVD+R/DVD+RW support, ask the Author for cdrecord-ProDVD.
cdrecord: Free test versions and free keys for personal use are at [ftp://ftp.berlios.de/pub/cdrecord/ProDVD/](ftp://ftp.berlios.de/pub/cdrecord/ProDVD/)
cdrecord: Sorry, no CD/DVD-Recorder or unsupported CD/DVD-Recorder found on this target.
cdrecord: This version of cdrecord does not include DVD-R/DVD-RW support code.
cdrecord: See /usr/share/doc/cdrecord/README.DVD.Debian for details on DVD support.
Using generic SCSI-3/mmc   CD-ROM driver (mmc_cd).
Driver flags   : MMC-3 SWABAUDIO BURNFREE 
Supported modes: TAO PACKET SAO SAO/R96P SAO/R96R
cdrecord: Unspecified command not implemented for this drive.
cdrecord: Data will not fit on any disk.
cdrecord: Cannot write more than remaining DVD capacity.

**EDIT:** k3b says that my DVD is only 4.4GB's, but 4.7 is written on the disc.  Is this a problem with my media, or my method of burning?  Is it possible to shrink and ISO?

---

### Post by meng on 2006-08-21
I've never succeeded in burning >4.2 GB onto a DVD.
I thought it was a GiB vs GB problem (can't remember which is smaller).
Is this ISO something you downloaded/copied or something you brewed yourself?

---

### Post by ~LoKe on 2006-08-21
Guess it's not a problem.  According to some websites, a DVD's GB is 1,000,000 bites, so 4.7GB = 4.4GB.  My image is actually closer to 4.5GB's so that's the problem.

Boo.

---

### Post by mbeierl on 2006-08-22
> cdrecord: Found DVD+ media but DVD+R/DVD+RW support code is missing.
cdrecord: If you need DVD+R/DVD+RW support, ask the Author for cdrecord-ProDVD.
cdrecord: Free test versions and free keys for personal use are at [ftp://ftp.berlios.de/pub/cdrecord/ProDVD/](ftp://ftp.berlios.de/pub/cdrecord/ProDVD/)
cdrecord: Sorry, no CD/DVD-Recorder or unsupported CD/DVD-Recorder found on this target.
cdrecord: This version of cdrecord does not include DVD-R/DVD-RW support code.
cdrecord: See /usr/share/doc/cdrecord/README.DVD.Debian for details on DVD support.
It looks like you cannot use cdrecord to burn a dvd.  According to /usr/share/doc/cdrecord/README.DVD.Debian you can install dvd+rw-tools or dvdrtools.  Haven't tried it myself...

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-08-22
In k3b, there is an option for overburn so may want to look at that!

---

