---
title: ".xsession-errors recurring HUGE file size"
date: 2013-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jonnymd on 2013-09-01
I have repeatedly incurred an issue where a file grows to the size of my entire hard drive.  I have found after viewing hidden files that the culprit is .xsession-errors from within my ~home directory.  On multiple occasions the file grows to 690 GB and takes all remaining space on my drive.  I delete it and within a few weeks it occurs again.  When I open the file there are recurring entries that look like a potential brute-force attack but I don't understand how I would possibly be targeted or how to avoid such a negative consequence (ie: it doesn't appear that they are granted access but I don't like the feeling that one day they may).  Any tips or thoughts would surely help.

I have encountered this on various distros (various versions of ubuntu as well as linux mint).
My router is an airport extreme.

Here is an example of a few lines of the repeated error.  This is part of when the file is only 1MB. Again it grows in size to 690 GB!  Please help.
[ATTACH]245907[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-09-01
It looks like you have enabled 'Desktop Sharing' and have left the VNC port (by default, port 5900) open to the public internet - if you don't need/use desktop sharing then disable it (from the dash --> 'Desktop Sharing' and uncheck the box, or open a terminal and type 'vino-preferences')

If you need Desktop Sharing within your LAN, the make sure the VNC port(s) are not forwarded at your externally facing router. If you absolutely need to VNC in from outside your LAN then it is strongly recommended to only allow that via an SSH tunnel.

---

### Post by jonnymd on 2013-09-07
Spot on! I had opened a port for VNC on my router ages ago (learning as I go) with the intent to allow outside "tunneling" to my computer. Now that I've been installing and enabling remote desktop (for use within my lan) that exposed my server.  Thank you for the advise.  I'm now looking into SSH (not sure I have a "real need" but I'd like to learn and understand it).

Thank you.

---

