---
title: "10.04 - Odd error message after reinstalling Grub"
date: 2012-08-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2012-08-28
I have a Toshiba Satellite laptop w/ 120GB HD. I've got that partitioned so I can multi-boot. My partition #'s look like this:
1 ) Grub partition (not used yet)
   (Grub is going into MBR right now.)
3 ) Swap
4 ) Debian Squeeze
5 ) Ubuntu v10.04
6 ) Kubuntu v10.04
7 ) Xubuntu v10.04
8 ) Data
9 ) Data

All OS's use their own partition for Home. {4,5,6,& 7} are Ext4. {8 & 9} are NTFS.

I reinstalled Grub from the Ubuntu OS, in order to make my Ubuntu OS the 1st in the Grub boot menu list.
The commands I used were:
```
sudo apt-get purge grub-pc grub-common
```
```
sudo apt-get install grub-pc grub-common
```

The reference material I got those from advised to also use
```
sudo grub-update
```
but when I try that in Ubuntu, I get an error message saying "command not found".


After rebooting, the list was in the order I desired, but upon proceeding into Ubuntu there's an odd error message on the Ubuntu logo screen saying that a drive "UUID..." (some long string of symbols) "is not ready yet or not present". The error message does a time out, then it proceeds to Ubuntu login. I'd need to reboot several times, in order to get the exact string of symbols written down... Login works fine, and when Gnome starts up it seems entirely normal. But, I've done this Grub reset process before, and never had any error message show up. So, having one now is definitely a sign that something went wrong. Just to see if anything would change, I did the Grub reset process again - and, the error message is still there.

The only 2 things I can think of offhand, re. this error message is that I have TrueCrypt starting automatically on startup of Gnome, and I frequently use a flash drive. But, those things don't really seem sufficient to cause the error message.

Anybody have any ideas or insights about this?

---

### Post by micahpage on 2012-08-28
I beleive its 
```
sudo update-grub
```
and not sudo grub-update

---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2012-08-28
I'll bet you're right. I'm going to log off, try that, & then see if the error message goes away.

Thanks!

---

### Post by scruffyeagle on 2012-08-28
> **micahpage said:**
> I beleive its 
```
sudo update-grub
```
and not sudo grub-update

Thank you very much! You were right about my mistake w/ the command.
```
sudo update-grub
```
worked perfectly - and, when I rebooted, the error message was gone.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by micahpage on 2012-08-28
no problem. I only seen the error, because I recently did the same thing and made the same mistake

---

