---
title: "refresh rate/xorg question"
date: 2008-12-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by interceptorV8 on 2008-12-05
i wanted to post this here so some linux pros could look at this.

refresh rate question:
since i've gotten my monitor's resolution to 1920x1200, it looks great, but i noticed a LOT of flicker when watching the movie: Alien. my max refresh rate is limited to 50Hz. the specs for my monitor list the h/v frequency at 30 83kHz / 56 75Hz.

i have a geforce 7300 gs.
a few days ago i downloaded envy to get the proper nvidia drivers since synaptic package manager would never allow me to download them (yet it would give me the restart icon in my panel afterwards)

the nvidia x settings have the refresh rate set at 60 Hz while the "screen resolution" under "system">"preferences" has 50 Hz and a NEW option: 101 Hz (just came up after fiddling with nvidia x server)

AND when i try to save the "x configuration file" in nvidia x settings, i get: "Failed to parse existing X config file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'!"


my xorg file doesn't look anything like what others look like:

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
Option "CorePointer"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Option "UseFBDev" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

----------------------------------------

the PREVIEW of the "x" configuration file (although it won't save like i mentioned above) reads:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Thu Jun  5 09:26:53 UTC 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LG W2600"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1200_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
------------------------------------

how can i fix this?

---

### Post by blackened on 2008-12-05
Try running the nvidia config utility as superuser. /etc/X11/xorg.conf is owned by root, which probably explains why you can't save it.

---

### Post by interceptorV8 on 2008-12-05
> **blackened said:**
> Try running the nvidia config utility as superuser. /etc/X11/xorg.conf is owned by root, which probably explains why you can't save it.

Okay, well i did that, and it saved...  now according to the "monitor resolution settings", there are 3 options

1: 101 Hz
2. 51 Hz
3. 50 Hz

The highest it will let me pick is 51 Hz...  When i pick 101 Hz, it just reverts to 51 Hz.

nvidia x server settings says the refresh rate is 60 Hz...   i don't know what to...

I watched the same scene from Alien in windows vista and there was no flicker (during the strobe effect near the end)    and i checked the refresh rate there and it was 50 Hz i think.

---

### Post by graysky on 2008-12-05
Try running [color=purple]nvidia-settings[/color] from a shell - set your res. and refresh rate in the nvidia util, not the gnome util.

---

### Post by interceptorV8 on 2008-12-06
> **graysky said:**
> Try running [color=purple]nvidia-settings[/color] from a shell - set your res. and refresh rate in the nvidia util, not the gnome util.


the only options in the nvidia util are "auto" and "60" (which it's set at)...   i've found that if i turn off the advanced graphics mode, the flicker in dvd movies stops...  so i guess i'll just turn it off :(

so the dvd flicker might not be related to the refresh rate...  regardless, i still think the rate SHOULD be higher like the monitor specs indicate.

---

### Post by blackened on 2008-12-06
Post the output of
```
xrandr
```

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-12-06
> **blackened said:**
> Post the output of
```
xrandr
```

XRandR with the Nvidia proprietary driver? I don't think it would even work with the nv driver since RandR 1.2 is not supported on both ends, yet.

Edit:- Not related to the problem at hand though, sorry.

---

### Post by blackened on 2008-12-06
> **PmDematagoda said:**
> XRandR with the Nvidia proprietary driver? I don't think it would even work with the nv driver since RandR 1.2 is not supported on both ends, yet.

Edit:- Not related to the problem at hand though, sorry.

Oversight on my part, you're right. Ignore my stupidity please.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-12-06
> **blackened said:**
> Oversight on my part, you're right. Ignore my stupidity please.

Actually the command isn't completely worthless since I tried it out on my setup using the Nvidia driver, and it did return a proper output instead of garbage or just an error. I think the usefulness of XRandR is affected only when trying to adjust the resolution and refresh rates. But considering that the Screen & Resolution tool has a high chance of using XRandR to obtain the screen information, even with the Nvidia driver in use, I don't think XRandR would offer something better.

---

