---
title: ".rar files?"
date: 2006-04-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by s_h_a_d_o_w_s on 2006-04-02
Is there a program in synaptic or in terminal that can unpack .rar files from the web. (The same way fileroller unzips .zip files?)

---

### Post by BoyOfDestiny on 2006-04-02
[QUOTE=s_h_a_d_o_w_s]Is there a program in synaptic or in terminal that can unpack .rar files from the web. (The same way fileroller unzips .zip files?)[/QUOTE]

Yes, make sure you have the universe repo enabled, and search for unrar.

---

### Post by xXx 0wn3d xXx on 2006-04-02
[QUOTE=BoyOfDestiny]Yes, make sure you have the universe repo enabled, and search for unrar.[/QUOTE]
Or just use Automatix

use there commands, one at a time, and in terminal
> 
wget [http://beerorkid.com/automatix/automatix_5.7-3_i386.deb](http://beerorkid.com/automatix/automatix_5.7-3_i386.deb)
sudo dpkg -i automatix_5.7-3_i386.deb

---

### Post by jrib on 2006-04-02
install unrar-nonfree from multiverse if you want to open most rar archives

---

### Post by mrazster on 2006-04-02
As **BoyOfDestiny** said...make sure you have the universe/multiverse repositiries right...and then search för unrar-free and unrar-nonfree...and you are "good to go" ....!!!

---

### Post by LongTooth on 2006-04-05
*&#!  it! I have the universe/multiverse repositiries in my sources.list. I did find and install the unrar-free but a search does not bring up unrar-nonfree. 

I'm using Dapper Drake. What am I doing wrong? Of course like the previous poster, I too am asked for a password - key in my usr pswd and...no go. 

Obviously, if I don't have the unrar-nonfree I won't be able to extract these files. 

Somebody help me!

---

### Post by DoktorSeven on 2006-04-05
It's in breezy's multiverse backports. Not sure about Dapper.

---

### Post by LongTooth on 2006-04-05
Is it possible to use the Brezzy repositories for Drake to down load this field? I would of course delete it when done. Comment anyone? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by _linux_ on 2006-04-05
Just go to rarlabs.com and download RAR for Linux. The only problem is that it's a trial and can only run from the command line.

---

### Post by Sutekh on 2006-04-06
[QUOTE=LongTooth]*&#!  it! I have the universe/multiverse repositiries in my sources.list. I did find and install the unrar-free but a search does not bring up unrar-nonfree. 

I'm using Dapper Drake. What am I doing wrong? Of course like the previous poster, I too am asked for a password - key in my usr pswd and...no go. 

Obviously, if I don't have the unrar-nonfree I won't be able to extract these files. 

Somebody help me![/QUOTE]The unrar-nonfree package that was in the Breezy multiverse repository is now just unrar in the Dapper multiverse repository

```
sudo apt-get install unrar
```

---

### Post by BoyOfDestiny on 2006-04-06
[QUOTE=LongTooth]*&#!  it! I have the universe/multiverse repositiries in my sources.list. I did find and install the unrar-free but a search does not bring up unrar-nonfree. 

I'm using Dapper Drake. What am I doing wrong? Of course like the previous poster, I too am asked for a password - key in my usr pswd and...no go. 

Obviously, if I don't have the unrar-nonfree I won't be able to extract these files. 

Somebody help me![/QUOTE]

Well this is the breezy section. But I'm on dapper too. nonfree is merely known as unrar now...

[[IMG]http://img104.imageshack.us/img104/6163/screenshotsynapticpackagemanag.th.png[/IMG]](http://img104.imageshack.us/my.php?image=screenshotsynapticpackagemanag.png)

---

### Post by LongTooth on 2006-04-06
Well, I downloaded the rar program as instructed (sudo apt-get install unrar) and still no go. Doesn't matter if I use the Gui Archive Manager or the CLI, I get an error message that tell me I need a password. Doing a 'rar -h' brings up the help list. I input my usrer password but still error out. Seems I can't input a password that keeps.

---

