---
title: "11.10 crashes, I suspect the 3.0 kernel is to blame."
date: 2011-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2011-12-10
Hi everyone!

Recently, my Windows install decided it was time to stop working, so I turned to Ubuntu to, once again, help me out.
I wiped the drive clean, formatted a set of partitions (swap and /) to ext4 and installed 11.10.
I love the new UIs, both Unity and Gnome 3 are gorgeous!
However, my pc kept crashing randomly, sometimes resulting in a blinking caps lock key.

I re-formatted, installed 10.04LTS, and upgraded to 11.04, since upgrading to 11.10 will most likely install the 3.0 kernel.
So far, I haven't experienced a single crash.

So, my questions are:
-Is it safe to upgrade to 11.10 if I intend to keep using the 2.6 kernel?
-Is it a good bet that the new kernel may be the source of my problems? If so, should I expect it to be fixed soon?

Thanks a lot in advance!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-12-10
Could be. I wouldn't imagine you could put a possible time of fixage!

If things were fine with 10.04 LTS,  the most stable release, then 11.04, why did you upgrade to 11.10? Is there a particular reason? Latest is not always the greatest and 11.10 is a world of pain on some machines (for now). ;)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-12-10
I prefer clean installations and I don't know how you would keep the old kernel during the upgrade . You would have to install the 3.0 kernel during the upgrade and remove it to install the older kernel and lock that version to keep it from updating . It is always best to run the kernel  that is designated  for the release .

It reads like you have experienced kernel panic , which can be graphics / Xorg related . I run Unity 3D and the Gnome Shell and have not had any problems since installation day , so I'm not sure what needs to be fixed .

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2011-12-11
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Could be. I wouldn't imagine you could put a possible time of fixage!

If things were fine with 10.04 LTS,  the most stable release, then 11.04, why did you upgrade to 11.10? Is there a particular reason? Latest is not always the greatest and 11.10 is a world of pain on some machines (for now). ;)

I didn't upgrade to 11.10; it was the first one I installed this time around.

Thanks for your replies, guys, I'll be sticking with 11.04 for now. I just miss the beauty of Gnome 3... Oh well, can't have everything.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-12-11
You can upgrade the kernel while still using the 11.04 release. You can run the 12.04 kernel while using 11.04 if you want, if you get what I mean. It'll just come up as another entry in the grub menu at boot.

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2011-12-12
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> You can upgrade the kernel while still using the 11.04 release. You can run the 12.04 kernel while using 11.04 if you want, if you get what I mean. It'll just come up as another entry in the grub menu at boot.

This is Linux, I can do whatever I want! :D
The challenge is keeping everything running.

What I'd like to try, however, is exactly the opposite, run 11.10 on the 11.04 kernel.
Since this is my work machine, and also my only machine, I'll stick to the current setup, at least until the end of the semester, then we'll see ;)

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-12
By having some problems with the installation of 11.10 and not with 11.04, the assumption that 11.10 (kernel 3.0) is not for you, is a little premature. 
And if the first installation was incorrect? Why you didn't try again a fresh 11.10 install?

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2011-12-13
> **BC59 said:**
> By having some problems with the installation of 11.10 and not with 11.04, the assumption that 11.10 (kernel 3.0) is not for you, is a little premature. 
And if the first installation was incorrect? Why you didn't try again a fresh 11.10 install?

It is, of course, just a slightly-educated guess: I'm experiencing kernel panics, therefore, the problem likely lies within the kernel. This is not, clearly, a certainty.
I have not tried another fresh install, since I needed my computer working ASAP.

To rule out the kernel completely, I've been thinking of installing some another distro that also ran 3.0, but don't know of any. (Maybe the latest Mint? Although that might share a bit too much with Ubuntu, which would invalidate this test.)

As for the first installation not being correct, I think it's not as likely as a kernel bug. Do you agree?

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-13
On my computers I had every issue you can imagine, from kernel panic, and unsuccessful bootups, to video drivers not working. Everything was repaired with a fresh install.

---

### Post by Gonz_91 on 2011-12-13
> **BC59 said:**
> On my computers I had every issue you can imagine, from kernel panic, and unsuccessful bootups, to video drivers not working. Everything was repaired with a fresh install.

That's not something I can say I have ever heard about, fixing things with reinstalls xD

Since I have a separate /home partition and thorough backups, though, I just might try it.

---

### Post by BC59 on 2011-12-13
Unfortunately this is the truth. All of us we are spending lots of working hours to repair a bad installation, instead of spending 30 minutes to reinstall the system and have a working computer.

---

