---
title: "12.04 Upgrade problems"
date: 2013-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bcrocker on 2013-09-01
[FONT=Calibri, serif][SIZE=2]I have an old Dell Latitude D610, that dual boots Win xp with Ubuntu 11.10. I have tried three times to upgrade to 12.04, unsuccessfully. The upgrade fails. Among other things, the newer kernel entries are not listed in Grub, and when choosing an 11.10 grub entry, Ubuntu will not load up completely. So fine, I decided. I'll do a fresh install, although I want to keep Win xp and the separate /home partition I've set aside. The first step, I'm asked what type of installation I want[/SIZE][/FONT]

 [FONT=Calibri, serif][SIZE=2]1. Install Ubuntu alongside existing operating systems[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Calibri, serif][SIZE=2]2. Use the whole hard drive[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Calibri, serif][SIZE=2]3. Custom install[/SIZE][/FONT]
  

 [FONT=Calibri, serif][SIZE=2]I don't want number 1, because I want to get rid of the older Ubuntu. I don't want number 2 because I want to keep Winxp. When choosing option number 3, I'm then asked where to install the bootloader, only to be presented with an error that says that /dev/sda is not a valid root partition.[/SIZE][/FONT]
 [FONT=Calibri, serif][SIZE=2]This computer has been dual booting since Ubuntu 8.04 and upgrades have always gone relatively smoothly, now I'm stuck. Any help or suggestions is appreciated[/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by col48 on 2013-09-01
Unless you are short of disc space, I'd do number 1.  That way you do not risk your working 11.10 system before you can rely on a working 12.04 one (unless it is already too late, of course!).  You can access the data in the 11.10 partitions from the 12.04 if you need to.

---

### Post by Petro Dawg on 2013-09-01
Usually there is a re-install or replace Ubuntu option in there somewhere (not sure why you are not presented with that one), however you could use gparted from a live session to delete the current Ubuntu 11.10 partition and then select Install Ubuntu alongside existing operating systems (as windows will be the only other OS).

---

### Post by bcrocker on 2013-09-01
If I choose this method (installing 12.04 alongside 11.10 and WinXP), disk space would be a little tight, but not bad. Again, if I do this, how would I then get rid of the 11.10 install, when the time comes? I'm still using the old grub, not grub2.

---

### Post by Petro Dawg on 2013-09-01
> **bcrocker said:**
> If I choose this method (installing 12.04 alongside 11.10 and WinXP), disk space would be a little tight, but not bad. Again, if I do this, how would I then get rid of the 11.10 install, when the time comes? I'm still using the old grub, not grub2.

I don't particular recommend that route, but it can be done.  After installing all three, you can then boot into a live session (with Disk or USB), use gparted to delete the Ubuntu 11.10 partition and then expand the Ubuntu 12.04 partition to fill all the empty space.  However, that comes with risks.  Expanding a partition can result in data loss/corruption (its not common but it can happen).  **Edit:**  I almost forget, you will also have to update GRUB after making the partition changes.

That's why I would prefer to delete 11.10 first (after backing up all important files) and then fresh install 12.04 into the newly created empty space.  GRUB should be automatically configured with the fresh install.


**Edit again:**  How much RAM do you have?  With your computer, you might be better off (performance-wise) with Xubuntu or Lubuntu.

---

### Post by bcrocker on 2013-09-01
The computer has 2G RAM, and has always done fine with the Ubuntu. I just realized though, that even if I delete the ext3 partition that now houses Ubuntu, I have a feeling I'm still going to run into the same issue with the bootloader install error. This step occurs before I'm even asked onto which partition I want to put Ubuntu

---

### Post by Petro Dawg on 2013-09-01
I thought that only happened if you selected option 3 (Custom Install).  Perhaps I'm mistaken, but the other options should not ask you about where to place the bootloader (its been a few months since my last install so my memory might be a bit fuzzy).   

Of course you could try to install alongside, and see if the bootloader issue still occurs.  If it does, then we know we have another issue; if not, you can delete two linux partitions (11.10 and 12.04) instead of one (11.10) and then go back and do a fresh install.

---

### Post by bcrocker on 2013-09-01
OK. If it helps anyone else. I zapped the partition that held 11.10 and recreated an ext3 partition. I chose install option #1 (install) alongside existing operating systems. It did not give me the bootloader error, but also did not give me the option to set my /home directory on a different partition. I've done that before, after the fact, no big deal. Thanks for the help

---

