---
title: "2.6.20-16 Boot Freeze"
date: 2007-06-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Shiner_Man on 2007-06-10
On a fresh Kubuntu Feisty install, the 2.6.20-16 generic kernel is hanging during the boot process:

```
* Loading hardware drivers [OK]
   error receiving uevent message: no buffer space available
* Loading kernel modules [OK]
* Loading manual drivers [OK]
* Activating swap... [OK]
*Checking root file system
fsck 1.40-WIP (14-Nov-2006)
/dev/sda1: clean, 92600/60293120 files, 2654989/120575849 blocks [OK]

-
```

At this point it just completely freezes.  I guess it having trouble mounting the file system.  I have to hold down the power button to shut off the machine.

The 2.6.17 kernels all boot up fine with no errors.  I also tried the 2.6.20-15 kernel and it freezes as well.  It must be an issue with the 2.6.20 kernel.

Specs:
Asus A8N32-SLI Deluxe 
AMD Athlon 64 X2 4200+ 
Sata 500gb hard drive

---

### Post by Handssolow on 2007-06-19
Similar problems here leave me rather frustrated and irritated by Feisty. Edgy gave much less bother.

Of our two Ubuntu PCs one boots Feisty 2.6.20-16 from a single IDE drive but has a RT2500 chipset wireless card which with every boot I have to manually input my essid and wep key. I'm hoping for a new driver to become available perhaps next year!!!

Our other PC was updated to Feisty last week. Ubuntu's on a sata and XP on an IDE. By this time 2.6.20-16 was the latest  and during install screwed up the system. Trying 2.6.20-15 it was only a little better. It's now reasonably stable back on 2.6.17-11.

In my opinion if you have an RT2500 card and a Sata drive then avoid Feisty 2.6.20-16. I'm hoping the next kernel upgrade will get the UUID hda sda issues resolved but I have no idea if there is any prospect of a solution.

My sympathy to those with similar experiences with Feisty.

---

### Post by bluknight on 2007-06-20
I am having similar boot problems with Fiesty kernels 2.6.20 -15 or 16 freshly installed from LiveCD. Only working solution I have is to use the OLD Edgy kernel 2.6.17-11 to boot Feisty on an external USB-HD. Here is how:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=450246&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=450246&page=2)

Even after booting into Feisty, synaptic updates to the latest 2.6.20-16.29 kernel still hang boot on the latest kernel. :(

Waiting for yet another newer kernel to be released.
Might be a bit outdated but hope this post helps somebody...

---

