---
title: "9.04 locks up"
date: 2009-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by badger_fruit on 2009-10-19
Hey guys

I'm having a bit of a wierd issue with my Ubuntu machine; it seems to lock up at random.  It responds to PING OK, I can not however, SSH VNC or use any of the services (eg Apache) on it.  If I attach a monitor, I'm told "no signal" but power and HDD activity lights still work.

**There's no obvious operation, pattern or time of day that it locks up and I'm wondering if there's a log file I can examine which maybe would highlight the problem?**

I've checked /var/log/messages but I see nothing :(

The machine's been stable for weeks but now won't keep online for more than a few hours :(  There's plenty of cooling / ventilation and it just serves as a Myth TV server, so hardly taxing it.  it's a 3ghz P4 with 1GB ram (not the highest spec by all accounts but more than sufficient).  To recover, I have to either hold down the power-button or pull the power lead from the socket.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-19
if its not a kernel panic (blinking keyboard leds) or even if it is, at least you should shut it down or reboot it with alt+sysrq+reisub
[http://www.matejunkie.com/magic-sysrq-reisub/](http://www.matejunkie.com/magic-sysrq-reisub/)
(use O instead of B to power it off)

But thats not the good solution of course. Can you check your log files for any obvious errors? Perhaps attach your dmesg output ? First guess would be an acpi/bios error. You could try booting with noapic and/or nolapic boot options, seems to cure random lockups for a lot of ppl with crappy bioses

---

