---
title: "10.04 power managment bug?"
date: 2010-03-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sykologi on 2010-03-14
Hello, I have just updated to 10.04 alpha 2. So far it is nice, except for one thing. No matter what I do in the power managment settings, it still goes to a password screen after a while of inactivity, and if it does this with the lid closed, when I open it the screen will be all muffed up, composed of a bunch of squares of distorted colorful lines. I am forced to then restart. Any ideas? Also I have been updating like every 2 hours. :p

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-03-14
> **sykologi said:**
> Hello, I have just updated to 10.04 alpha 2...

How so? 10.04 alpha3 was released on Feb 22. I suggest you update to the latest development version and share any bugs at the development subforum. Also feel free to report bugs on launchpad.net.
Best of luck.

---

### Post by sykologi on 2010-03-17
Maybe it was the latest version. I thought alpha 2 was the latest on the release calender. But I'm sure I was on the latest since I was updating very very often with no solution whatsoever. Also, I had it set so that it would do even the newest of the new. Well what I mean is in the update manager I had all these boxes selected.
[IMG]http://i43.tinypic.com/10ifa8h.png[/IMG]
I have since then went back to 9.10
Hopefully this will be fixed by the time the release comes out?

Edit: One more question, Do you think if I were to try the gnome 3 shell or whatever beta thing it is, would it possible that it would fix it?

---

