---
title: "8.10 + Aspire 3000 Laptop = Disappointing"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-11-01
FYI for all you poor saps out there running an Acer Aspire 3000 laptop, or maybe a SIS video card... the generic driver for this device in 8.10 is not good. Don't bother upgrading right now... I wasn't able to find a way to get it to work. I mean, it does work... but there's a blue haze around everything and it looks terrible. But the card runs great on 8.04... dumb. If anyone finds a solution, please update me! Oh well, I'll just have to wait for better support or get a new laptop. Still love my Ubuntu tho.

---

### Post by notoriousdbp on 2008-11-01
I have the same laptop and would have to completely disagree.  Having used Ubuntu since 6.06 on this laptop this is easily the best performance appearance-wise I have seen.  The SiS chipset can't do a lot it has to be said - don't expect any wobbly windows or other effects - but while there were one or two hiccups when 8.10 was beta such as the login screen not appearing first time these have now been ironed out.

I would happily tell anyone with this laptop to go ahead with Ubuntu 8.10 - oh and my broadcom wireless in running infinitely better in 8.10 than it did in 8.04.  The difference there is truly staggering.

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-11-03
Did you have to change any settings once you booted up? Did the generic video driver work? I get this blue haze around everything, even while using the live disc.

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-11-13
Bump!

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-11-26
Bump!

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-12-03
Bump!

---

### Post by weslson on 2008-12-28
BUMP!

Just got done installing 8.10 on an Aspire 3000 and had a blueish spotting all over the screen.  When hooking the display up to an external monitor it looked fine, but guessing that is because of a supported display being hooked up compared to the laptop's screen.  Glad you had this too as I was worried about hardware problems but sounds like we have the same issue.

-Wes

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-12-30
Yeah we certainly do... still no resolution. I'm still on Hardy. If I ever find one, I'll be sure to post it!

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-12-31
I think it's the new driver that Ubuntu uses... does anyone know if I can upgrade and load the old driver?

---

