---
title: "8.10 Screen Resolution Help, Out Of Ideas"
date: 2009-01-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by grahambythepound on 2009-01-21
Hello All, I have dug through the forums for going on two hours now and I just cannot seem to find a way to increase the screen resolution of my display. I can tell this is a common problem and I've attempted every solution that I've read so far. I'm running an Hp Laptop, Nvidia card, Dual booting Ubuntu & Vista with GRUB. Any help would be wonderful. I'm a brand new user to Linux and am very excited about the potential of becoming more familar with it, but this screen resolution issue is frustrating me. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-01-21
Try changing your driver.

---

### Post by grahambythepound on 2009-01-21
I've tried both drivers in the hardware drivers menu. Two are listed, I tried both and am now using the most recent version, Version 177.

---

### Post by Dieseler on 2009-01-21
Kde or ubuntu?

I installed Kubuntu on my wifes machine today and had a booger of a time figuring it out to.
Anyway, there was an nvidia menu somewhere on her machine where I was able to change the resolution up to 1024 x 768.
There were other options as well.
I also had to go into system settings and increase the font size to be able to see the nvidia menu.
Look around for that.
If its ubuntu, I dunno if it puts that nvidia menu there or not.

---

### Post by grahambythepound on 2009-01-21
Checked, but all I could find was something called Nvidia Xserver settings. But it didn't give me any options as to resolution. I know that I've fixed this on another machine with a previous release of Ubuntu, and not being able to figure out how to do it on this release is what's really getting to me. Thanks for the tip though.

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-01-21
This probably is a case of poor monitor recognition. Hopefully these problems with bulletproof-x will be ironed out in time.

Find the documentation for your monitor. You'll need the horizontal sync and vertical refresh ranges to fix this. Even if this doesn't fix the problem, adding these values should not cause fatal problems in your x setup.

In the terminal:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Find the monitor section and add your hsync and vrefresh ranges like so:

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	HorizSync          **30-82**
	VertRefresh        **56-76**
EndSection
```

**You must** replace the bolded values with those appropriate to your monitor.

After that, restart X with:

```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

---

### Post by grahambythepound on 2009-01-21
That did the trick, thanks much for your help. Now if I can only get my wireless card to work. I believe it's working, just not to sure how to pick up a wireless network. Guess it's time for more forum surfing. Thanks again.

---

### Post by blackened on 2009-01-21
Start a new thread about your wireless and we'll see what we can figure out.

---

