---
title: "[SOLVED] Fullcircle magazine question"
date: 2007-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
Hi.

I just noticed a hidden folder in my home directory called .fullcircle and within that a folder named 'MozillaOrgFirefox2LinuxIntel2007072517' then two files, one called manifest.ini and another named permadata.box. I opened manifest.ini in text editor and there's a bunch of stuff I don't understand and at the bottom is a url to [www.fullcirclesoftware.com](www.fullcirclesoftware.com). Went there and looks like they just want to sell me stuff.

I was wondering if it is related to me downloading and reading the Fullcircle magazine issue 3 PDF for Ubuntu, which by the way has some very nice articles. I was wondering if these two are related and why. Or maybe that folder has been there all the time and I just never noticed it before. Does anyone know what that directory is for?

Thanks

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-09-09
Since I do not have that folder, and have not ever visited their website, I would suspect that some nasty code in your download stuck that crap on your hdd.

If true, then they deserve every kind of negative publicity we can give them.  If not, then 'tis a mystery as to how it happened.

---

### Post by Warren Watts on 2007-09-09
That site is one of those "dummy domains" set up by money hungry people whose sole purpose in life seems to be #1: To register popular domain names in hope that they can resell them to someone that really wants that domain at an inflated price, and #2, To provide a bunch of useless links to useless sites that they can make money on by collecting clickthru royalties.

The web is full of such domains, and I hate 'em.  According to WHOIS, the domain is registered to:

Registrant:
   RareNames, WebReg
   4200 Wisconsin Ave NW
   Washington, DC 20016-2143
   US

   Domain Name: FULLCIRCLESOFTWARE.COM

   Administrative Contact, Technical Contact, Zone Contact:
      RareNames, WebReg
      4200 Wisconsin Ave NW
      Washington, DC 20016-2143
      US
      (781) 839-7993
      (781) 839-2801 [fax]
      [email]brokerage@buydomains.com[/email]

   Domain created on 22-Jun-2004
   Domain expires on 22-Jun-2008
   Last updated on 20-Jun-2007

   Domain servers in listed order:

      NS.BUYDOMAINS.COM
      THIS-DOMAIN-FOR-SALE.COM

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-09-09
I just downloaded issue #4 from [here](http://www.fullcirclemagazine.org/issue-4/) and didn't see any ~/.fullcircle folder appear when I read the PDF (and, yes, I did show hidden files). Is there some other way it could have gotten there?

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-09
Funny, I remember seeing that hidden folder ~/.fullcircle on my laptop. But I've long since reformatted so I can't take a look at it. But I also thought it had something to do with Fullcircle magazine. But I guess not. I would be interested to know what it really is.

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
Thanks all. This does seem a little strange. Aysiu, I've been thinking what else could have put it there but I really have no clue.

I just started thinking that after I downloaded the Fullcircle magazine PDF to my main PC I moved it to my laptop running breezy via a pendrive so I could take it with me. And there is the same .fullcircle folder in my home directory on the laptop. It has the same two files plus one called Talkback.ini.

I'll post the contents of the files in case this might help.

In the manifest.ini file is this:

; manifest.init;

; WARNING - Do not edit this file. It will likely be overwritten if you do so.



VendorID = "MozillaOrg"

ProductID = "Firefox2"

PlatformID = "LinuxIntel"

BuildID = "2007030916"

ManifestVersion = 0



ApplicationName = "Firefox2"



DisableDontAsk = 0



MaxTriggerCount = 1



DisableUI = 0



DisableWizard = 0



EnableSaveAs = 1



KeyVetoDisabled = 0



ServerCount = 1

ServerAddress0 = 1, "http://talkback.mozilla.org/spiral-bin/Collector.dll"



NubCollectors = UnixCmdLine, LinuxIntelReg, Pc, LinuxELF32SO, LinuxIntelStackTrace, Signal, Uid, eUid, Gid, eGid, Cwd, UnixResourceLimits, Env, LinuxIntelPCCode, LinuxIntelStackDump, Trigger, TriggerTime

UnixCmdLine = 0xc000000a, "SUNIX Command Line"

LinuxIntelReg = 0xc2000000, "SLinux Intel Registers"

Pc = 0xc0000008, "SPC at time of crash"

LinuxELF32SO = 0xc2000004, "SUNIX ELF32 Shared Objects"

LinuxIntelStackTrace = 0xc2000002, "SLinux Stack Trace"

Signal = 0xc0000000, "SUNIX signal value"

Uid = 0xc0000004, "SUNIX Real User ID"

eUid = 0xc0000006, "SUNIX Effective User ID"

Gid = 0xc0000005, "SUNIX Real Group ID"

eGid = 0xc0000007, "SUNIX Effective Group ID"

Cwd = 0xc0000001, "SUNIX Current Working Directory"

UnixResourceLimits = 0xc0000002, "SUNIX Size of Heap"

Env = 0xc0000003, "SUNIX Environment Variables"

LinuxIntelPCCode = 0xc2000003, "SCode memory linux", 32, 64

LinuxIntelStackDump = 0xc2000001, "SDump of Stack linux", 4096

Trigger = 0x80000000, "STrigger Event"

TriggerTime = 0x80000001, "SNub trigger event time"



TransceiverCollectors = PageSizeCollector, SysMem, SysInfo, ProcessorVendor, ProcessorFeature, ProcessorSpeedCollector, ProcInfo, SystemUptimeCollector, ManifestVersionColl, DeploymentIDColl, VendorIDColl, ProductIDColl, PlatformIDColl, BuildIDColl, Platform

PageSizeCollector = 0x0000c105, "SUNIX Page Size"

SysMem = 0x0000c102, "SUNIX System Memory"

SysInfo = 0x0000c101, "SUNIX System Information"

ProcessorVendor = 0x30000012, "SIntel Processor Vendor"

ProcessorFeature = 0x30000013, "SIntel Processor Features"

ProcessorSpeedCollector = 0x0000c107, "SUnix Processor Speed"

ProcInfo = 0x0000c103, "SUNIX Processor Information"

SystemUptimeCollector = 0x0000c106, "SUNIX Uptime"

ManifestVersionColl = 1, "SManifest ver transceiver init"

DeploymentIDColl = 2, "SDeployment ID", 1

VendorIDColl = 2, "SVendor ID", 2

ProductIDColl = 2, "SProduct ID", 3

PlatformIDColl = 2, "SPlatform ID", 4

BuildIDColl = 2, "SBuild ID", 5

Platform = 3, "SPlatform Identifier", 0x60000000









TraceConfig = 128, 0, 20



AssertConfig = 0, 20, 0



TraceParamTrackCount = 32



AssertParamTrackCount = 32



MaxBoxAge = 172800



RandomFilter = 100, 100



APIErrorConfig = 0, 20



FullCircleURL0 = 1, 1, "http://www.fullcirclesoftware.com/"




In the Talkback.ini file is this:

HistorySettings = 3, 10, 100
SpiralEnabled = 0
SeenIntro = 1
RandomPool = 000000000000000000000000000000


The line with the zeros is actually a lot longer.

Aren't .ini files Windows files? I Don't have Wine or any Windows apps installed. And still don't know if it's related to the PDF or something I installed.

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
I moved the folder to the trash and opened the magazine a few times and it worked fine. I kind of doubt it's related. I like the magazine and looking forward to issue 4. The folder didn't reappear. Not until a little later. Maybe 30 minutes at least. In that time I did a couple searches about this folder on the internet and while the original is in the trash another one appeared minus the Talkback.ini file. The only other thing I did was open Skype but it never worked anyway. Skype is a little too resource heavy for this old laptop and I haven't used it in a long time. The folder isn't back yet. It's been a while now. Still not back.

Well it's turned into a late night for me.
I'll check with ya later.:)

---

### Post by Total_Biscuit on 2007-09-09
> **cjax1 said:**
> Hi.

I just noticed a hidden folder in my home directory called .fullcircle and within that a folder named 'MozillaOrgFirefox2LinuxIntel2007072517' then two files, one called manifest.ini and another named permadata.box. I opened manifest.ini in text editor and there's a bunch of stuff I don't understand and at the bottom is a url to [www.fullcirclesoftware.com](www.fullcirclesoftware.com). Went there and looks like they just want to sell me stuff.

I was wondering if it is related to me downloading and reading the Fullcircle magazine issue 3 PDF for Ubuntu, which by the way has some very nice articles. I was wondering if these two are related and why. Or maybe that folder has been there all the time and I just never noticed it before. Does anyone know what that directory is for?

Thanks

I went there.  So where's that magazine then?

---

### Post by expatCM on 2007-09-09
Think there may be some confusion.  Is this not the site
[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/](http://fullcirclemagazine.org/)

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
Yes looks like you are confused expatCM. The link I posted was something I found in a file. It's to fullcirclesoftware.com, not fulcirclemagazine.org. I originally thought because of the name it was related to the magazine somehow. I thought it strange a PDF would create a folder like that and I wanted to find out what it is. But it appears not to be the case. I don't want anyone to think anything nasty is going on with the magazine. I just downloaded and read issue 4 and everything's OK. No .fullcircle folder. I love the magazine.

I since have sent the folder to the trash on both machines to see if it affects anything and I ran some apps and stuff and I haven't seen it reappear. Also on my laptop running Breezy I have two installations of Breezy. One is the exact copy of the other moved to another partition. I copied the original install a while back after getting all the software installed and everything set up the way I wanted and I checked this morning and the .fullcircle folder is in the original install too. I hardly ever use the original install. It's just there in case I mess up the copy. I'll have something to fall back on that way with just a reboot. And I know that was there long before I ever downloaded the Fullcircle magazine.

I'll bet it has something to do with some app I installed on both machines. Maybe it's nothing bad but just looked suspicious. I haven't found any useful info on the internet about it. I was hoping someone could clue me in on what that folder is for.

Thanks a million

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
I wonder if it's related to the Talkback add-on in Firefox. The add-on is enabled and the preferences button is greyed out. Doesn't matter if the .fullcircle folder is in the trash or restored. I just wondered since firefox2 is mentioned in the manifest.ini file and there was a Talkback.ini file before but only on the laptop. But I'm still confused. I can't tell if the add-on is working or not with or without the hidden folder.

Besides the two default Firefox add-ons, Talkback and DOM Inspector,  I have User Agent Switcher, CustomizeGoogle, deskcut, DictionarySearch, and No Squint. They all seem to be working fine without the hidden folder. At least the ones I installed.

I still would like to make sure I didn't actually download something nasty. I doubt it but just curious at least.

Thanks

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
Sorry expactCM, I didn't mean you were confused, maybe Total_Biscuit. I didn't mean anything personal to any of you. I'm the one confused here :)

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-09
> Trigger = 0x80000000, "STrigger Event"

TriggerTime = 0x80000001, "SNub trigger event time"

I don't know, this looks malicious to me
Ok, maybe not:p
Firefox contains a lot of .ini files so they aren't really only Windows files.

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
Well I couldn't leave it alone. It looks like someone running Fedora Core 3 was wondering the same thing. Looks like it does have something to do with the Talkback add-on for Firefox.

[http://www.geckozone.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=14402&highlight=agent]("http://www.geckozone.org/forum/viewtopic.php?t=14402&highlight=agent")

[http://forums.mozillazine.org/viewtopic.php?t=136487&highlight=]("http://forums.mozillazine.org/viewtopic.php?t=136487&highlight=")

So no danger after all :)

I didn't think so. Just have to be on guard.

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
OK FuturePilot. The case isn't closed yet. I don't know how to read that stuff so if you think it looks malicious then maybe we should make sure about this folder's origins.

Aysiu, you said you do not have that folder. Do you have the Talkback add-on in Firefox? I'm running version 2.0.0.6. I'm running a fairly recent version of Firefox on Breezy also. It's 2.X, not sure exactly, and it also has the talkback add-on.

Does anyone know if it's related to the Firefox add-on?

Thanks

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-09
Whether it's malicious or not I really don't know. But I'm not sure I like the phrase "Trigger event":p
I'm going to see if it's related to the Firefox addon.
Hmm funny. I don't seem to have the Talkback addon. I though Firefox came with that? I'll see what I can find out.;)

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-09
Ok, it definitely is connected to the Talkback addon. It only comes with the Mozilla build of Firefox and not the Ubuntu version. So I downloaded the Mozilla version and ran it, and sure enough, I now have ~/.fullcircle.

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-09-09
Ok good. I did download a later version of Firefox using a script so it's not the original version that came with Ubuntu. Also the hidden folder will reappear if it's deleted. It just did a few minutes ago and Ive had Firefox open the whole time.

OK maybe I should mark this solved then.

Thanks much

---

