---
title: "Get 10.4 GUI in 10.10 / downgrade to 10.4"
date: 2011-03-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by qrlgftrt on 2011-03-30
Hi all,

Ubuntu is fine and a great community effort, but I should not have upgraded to 10.10 - the new GUI (launcher, panel) is veeeeeeery sloooooooow on a netbook, and far less efficient to use (there is less visual information about open windows and one has to click more often to get something done, wait for all animations etc).

Therefore, I really want the old 10.4 interface back. I tried sessions but the 'Netbook 2D' session is a crippled version of the old interface. 

1) Is there an easy way to get back the *exact* same UI of 10.4 NBR? (NBR 2D session is different)
2) Otherwise, is there an easy way to downgrade from 10.10 NBR to 10.4 NBR?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by lithopsian on 2011-03-30
Unity?  Big icons down the left of the screen?  Easy to remove, or to just leave in place and use something else like Gnome.  Perhaps best to search this forum for one of the many methods of replacing or completely uninstalling Unity.

---

### Post by qrlgftrt on 2011-03-30
lithopsian, thank you for your quick answer! 

I am afraid though that approach will take far longer than just reinstalling 10.4 NBR (supposed I can find the right installer on the current ubuntu.com site).

Therefore, let me rephrase my question, introducing a finite upper border to solution time: How to recover 10.4 NBR interface functionality with less amount of time and effort than a full 10.4 NBR reinstall takes?

---

### Post by qrlgftrt on 2011-03-30
Problem solved: 

Just wiped the drive (all data is on the cloud anyhow) and *reinstalled* Ubuntu 10.4 NBR.

What I learned: 
- When it's not broken, don't try to fix it. 
- Before an Ubuntu update, always test it from USB drive first
- Looking around on the forums in order to learn all ins and outs of the backside of an entire OS *does* take longer than reinstalling.
- The Ubuntu USB installer is super good.

---

### Post by lithopsian on 2011-03-30
Of course the 10.10 desktop version doesn't have Unity ;)  But in any case 10.04 will be supported for longer than 10.10 so if it works for you then it is a good choice.

---

### Post by qrlgftrt on 2011-03-30
> **lithopsian said:**
> Of course the 10.10 desktop version doesn't have Unity ;)  

Yes I saw desktop version can be chosen as a session, but it misses parts of the old netbook edition interface and has some visual differences which I did not have the nerve to tackle in terminal. 

Anyhow I found my own, special, way to solve things ;)

---

