---
title: "8.04 Problem (PLease REspond)"
date: 2008-07-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by VEGAMO on 2008-07-08
Since that god damn 8.04 Windows Vista wanna be update came, I've been suffering problems, but not like this. 

This happened on 2 different computers of mine
Simply one day I log on and find out my resolution can only be taken to 640x480. 

I tried reinstalling the video drivers and (using different ones), but still no luck. 
Anyone know how to fix this?

---

### Post by pmlxuser on 2008-07-08
i don't under stand can yo9u be more specific aws to how this happened. are you talking about windows vista or Ubuntu 8.04 (because if you are I don't think ubuntu 8.04 is a vista wanna be). 
Anyway have you tried uninstalling and reinstalling compiz after either the update or installtion of the vedio drivers??

Please if you need assistance try to be more specific as to your problems

---

### Post by VEGAMO on 2008-07-08
> **pmlxuser said:**
> i don't under stand can yo9u be more specific aws to how this happened. are you talking about windows vista or Ubuntu 8.04 (because if you are I don't think ubuntu 8.04 is a vista wanna be). 
Anyway have you tried uninstalling and reinstalling compiz after either the update or installtion of the vedio drivers??

Please if you need assistance try to be more specific as to your problems

I was specific, SIMPLY:
I've been using 8.04 for months now, and for some reason yesterday I woke up to find my computer can only scale it's desktop to 640x480.
I changed video drivers, reinstalled video drivers, No luck.

This is the second computer that suffers from this.

---

### Post by konungursvia on 2008-07-08
Look up and install nv (envy) which finds the perfect video driver and can be run after kernel updates. The reason is likely that you chose to enable proprietary drivers which add on to the kernel's modules and cannot survive a kernel update.

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-07-08
I cant make any sense out of your first line but I will try to be as helpful as I can given the limited information.

First we need some more details.  What type of video card are you using.  If you dont know run the following command in terminal(applications -> accessories -> terminal):```
lspci
```

---

### Post by avtolle on 2008-07-08
Which graphics cards are you using? Here is something that *might* work. At the CLI```
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
```scroll through to see whether your monitor is listed, if so, select it, then click on the graphics card tab to see whether the correct card is identified, and if not, again, scroll through to see whether the card (or series of cards) is listed, select the correct one, apply and exit; restart the system to see whether the resolution is corrected.

---

### Post by VEGAMO on 2008-07-08
Guys guys, I used EnvyNG to find my video driver, and it finds the video card driver for me and tells me it's been *Successfully installed* I restart the computer and I end up stuck at 640x480 again.

My first computer uses Nvidia 6200 LE
Second one is my Utorrent PC, runs on Nvidia 4200.

It's just weird because I mean I've been using 8.04 for ever now, and this problem have affected both my computers.

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-07-08
No need to get frustrated.  You didnt mention that you used envyNG and we are trying to help.  Have you taken a look in nvidia-settings? :```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by VEGAMO on 2008-07-08
I got it to work guys, thanks a lot :)

---

### Post by pmlxuser on 2008-07-08
Better.

sometimes you might manually edit the display setting in

  /etc/X11/xorg.conf there shoud be a line like

Subsection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480" 
ViewPort 0 0
at the modes if your mode is not existing you can add it.

---

