---
title: "11.10 Ubuntu Server - no login screen"
date: 2013-09-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Alessio___ on 2013-09-29
Hi all,
I am following and reading this forum since I have ubuntu installed on my machines, then since years...:KS
Actually I found dozens of solutions to dozens of issues, but this time I rellay can't find the way!

I have a machine as title says, without desktop manager, it is an headless server, these days I managed to hook up the monitor and keyboard, but incredible no login screen!! One year ago was there.
All the service are working smoothly, I can login with CTRL+ALT+F1...

I'd already tried with some solution found here in the forum like kernel options: add nomodeset, remove quiet splah and replace with text... nothing just change from blank screen to flashing cursor.
I repeat the server is working and i can get into with SSH or CTRL+ALT+F1, it seems the startup script encounter some problem.

thanks for your attention.
Rgds
Alessio

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2013-09-29
do you have a display manager installed?
```
apt-cache policy gdm lightdm
```

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-09-30
11.10 has been unsupported for half a year. This is not the cause of your problem, but may make it more complicated to solve. You'd better install 12.04 LTS, which will be supported until April 2017.

---

### Post by Alessio___ on 2013-09-30
@HilmTye, Thank you sir, no I don't use display manager. plain text login...

@Impavidus, i use this machine at home for file sharing download and other simple tasks, I fear the upgrades in general, I prefer fresh install. Anyhow will look for a good upgrade tutorial, thanks for the suggestion.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-30
Do a fresh install of 12.04 LTS server, then. Better than an upgrade, can be less problematic.

---

### Post by Alessio___ on 2013-09-30
Hello Bucky Ball,
I know fresh install are better..
Anyhow to me, It make no sense a fresh install for such minimal issue, the server works perfectly, just the login prompt doesn't show up.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-30
There is not much to be done, then. This release is totally unsupported and getting older. If you are online with it is vulnerable and a security risk and will become more of one as time goes on. It hasn't had security updates for six months.

---

### Post by Alessio___ on 2013-10-01
When I open this thread I didn't expected such solution...
Thanks anyway.
Alessio

---

