---
title: "menu.lst, ubuntu 9.10.....where is it ?"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zero7404 on 2009-11-03
i think 9.10 has either moved or removed menu.lst....

i want to make changes to my boot up in grub, but the file is not there, so gksu /boot/grub/menu.lst doesn't do anything

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-03
Read the link in my sig before doing anything.

The first three links are more detailed and really great.

Quit looking for the menu.lst.  This is grub2.

Have FUN.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-11-03
Hello,

in case you want to be sure where that file is then type:

```
cd /
find -name menu.lst
```

If you get no results, then the file is not in your pc!

edit: mine is in /boot/grub

Regards!

---

### Post by zero7404 on 2009-11-03
ranch hand, grub2 looks to be harder to edit than simply editing menu.lst....

all i wanted to do is move the windows boot to be listed as the second item below ubuntu, then change the default boot OS and timeout....

i can't make sense of your instructions in post # 1 of that thread

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-03
Ah, I see.  there are a lot of links to folks with more detail at the bottom there.  The first three are really great if you want to make grub2 sit up and beg.

As for reordering your menu.  You will have to make a custom menu in the /etc/grub.d/40_custom file.  It is best to save that file, when done, to a lower number as that will put it on top of your menu instead of last, which is where the 40_custom file will put it.

The "generic", or symbolic, menuentry is really great for Linux OS' as it never needs editing.  It boots the most recent kernel on the defined partition no matter what.

If you have a stable system where you have the OS' on that you want.  If you have a custom menu, you can then change the permissions of everything after the custom file (assuming that it is named 09_custom or below) so that they are not executable.  If, in your custom file, you have used the "generic" menuentries, you will then have a menu that you never have to edit.

You could upgrade you linux OS', or wipe them and do a clean install and the same menu entry will boot them (I do like to edit to change the name of the OS, but it is not needed).

The windows entry would be what ever 30_os-prober and 00_header have generated, copy/pasted to your custom file and edited to include the "Adding" and ending with the "EOF".  I can't help more than that with MS, don't use it.

Any other questions about the ordeal would be just great.

Grub2 is new and was awfully rough when 9.10alph2 was released with it on it.  In testing we all had to kind of learn through breaking it.  We really do understand the frustration of a new system.  The documentation is starting to come along, that is nice.  I believe that drs305 has written up some of the wiki stuff.

Oh yes, the default OS to boot for is set in /etc/default/grub.

Anything else, just holler.

---

### Post by zero7404 on 2009-11-03
browsing thru the material in these links....
grub2 is too complicated for casual users like me....i'll leave it as it is for now. 

with 8.10 it was easy to change grub and there were gui tools that i could grab that would let me easily do it. this version that comes with 9.10 is a 'beta', which i am not sure why the developers would include a pre-release still new piece of software with the latest released version of Ubuntu.

overall, 9.10 has become somewhat easier to use for users that aren't linux-savvy, but it still has some way to go to win over more market share. i guess it's a bigger challenge than i thought for developers to do, but in some respect - the way ubuntu is structured lends itself to much customization by the end user....

---

### Post by THE NICKSTER on 2009-11-03
i'm pretty new with linux, however, i do know how to do this. try,  "[B]sudo gedit /etc/default/grub"
[/B]
hope this helps if you haven't already sorted it.....

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-03
There is a link for going back to grub-legacy on that list.  Read it and follow it or you may have problems.  Follow those directions and everything will be smooth.  kanasnoob is another guy that was testing for most, if not all, the last round of testing (9.10 testing).  He knows his stuff.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-11-03
Well the equivalent of **menu.lst** in grub2 would be to my knowledge:
```
/boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-03
> **Crafty Kisses said:**
> Well the equivalent of **menu.lst** in grub2 would be to my knowledge:
```
/boot/grub/grub.cfg
```
Not really.  That file is the base of what you see on the menu screen.  That is pretty much the end of similarity.

It is a read only file for root.  It is generated by the scripts in /etc/grub.d.

Yes you can change the permissions and edit it.  It will be over written the nest time update-grub is run and the permissions returned to read only.  This is futile and silly.

The hidden menu setting and timeout setting are done in /etc/default/grub.  There is a way to set up a custom menu in /etc/grub.d.  If you do that right you will, on a system that you leave alone once set up, will never need edited again even for kernel updates.

See sig for a link.  There are more in depth links on it.  The first 3 have the most diverse information covering pretty much all of grub2.  There is one if you can't take grub2 to get you back to grub-legacy.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-11-03
For those of you who think GRUB2 is too hard, just remember back to the first seven times you destroyed menu.lst before you figured it out ...

---

### Post by SpitfireSMS on 2009-11-03
I dont want to steal this thread, but what is the easiest way to just edit what the items in grub2 say?
I looked at your thread, and I have looked at the files and the only was I see is to edit grub.cfg, which I dont want to do

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-03
Build a custom menu using /etc/grub.d/40_custom as the base.  If you use the "generic" menu entry for linux OS' and the standard MS menuentry (don't ask me, I do not like malware on my box) that is generally generated by grub2, you will never have to edit it again.  It boots the newest kernel on the partition it is aimed at.

The /boot/grub/grub.cfg file is read only for root.  There is a reason for this.  It is over written every time update-grub is run.

---

### Post by spit-the-dog on 2009-11-28
Why do people want the menu.lst in 9.10? I think all most newbies want to know is:

1. When booting select "recovery" option.

2. Select "update grub bootloader"

3. Tab to OK, enter and reboot.

Grub menu is then fixed.

Background:
My lad is running a desktop with 2 hard disks, one 80GB had Win XP, one 40GB with Ubuntu 9.10, luxury!

We did new install of Windows 7 on the XP disk, GRUB needed updating for the new Windows 7, (XP was on a FAT file system for starters). We tried using the existing XP/2000 entry, the machine couldn't find the boot device or wrong format or some other meaningless gibberish. I edited FAT to NTFS using emacs-are Ubuntu really trying to make friends here?, vi is bad enough for non-computer folk but emacs!, you have no idea. Still no boot device. So then I trawled all around the docs and the forums. None of it made a great deal of sense. Just about to give up but then as a last throw of the dice I booted into recovery and lo and behold there was an "update grub" option. Followed my steps above and all is well.

As a general point you guys (and it is mostly guys), you need to sit behind someone who knows their way around a computer a bit but has never seen Linux. You will learn a hell of a lot from watching them try to set-up this fantastic OS. Printers wireless, graphics card etc.

Thanks
Spit

---

