---
title: "14.04 won't shut down"
date: 2015-03-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by anthonyjeswald on 2015-03-21
Hi, everyone. So, I have a Lenovo Z570 running Ubuntu Studio 14.04, and for some reason it freezes when shutting down. I have seen other threads on this issue, but none of the fixes have worked for me:

1. shutdown -h now brings me to the shutdown splash screen, just like doing a shutdown from the normal dropdown menu method. It freezes at the splash screen.
2. I tried editing /etc/default/grub file to reflect the following: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=force" which didn't work. 

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by anthonyjeswald on 2015-03-22
Okay, so I completely reinstalled 14.04, and that didn't fix it. I should also not that this happens from the LiveCD as well. Anyone have any suggestions?

In addition, "sudo poweroff" doesn't work. And when it's frozen, REISUB won't reboot it.

I also noticed that there is 1meg of "free space" before the EFI boot partition.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2015-03-22
> **anthonyjeswald said:**
> I also noticed that there is 1meg of "free space" before the EFI boot partition.

I can't help with the shutdown problem, as I have no knowledge of the EFI boot setup. However, I will just answer your last observation. This seems to be perfectly normal behaviour for GParted, and the other disk formatting tools in Linux. 

I've formatted MY disks many times over the last year. No matter how many times I set my first partition to the very beginning of the sector in GParted, upon completion there is ALWAYS 1 MB of space at the beginning. By my reckoning that's approximately two 'blocks' (sectors?) No idea why. You'd need one of our experts to answer that one for you.

But it appears to be normal for the 'buntus, so.....nothing to worry about. I doubt it's related to your shut-down problem.


Regards,

Mike. :)

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-03-22
That first megabyte is reserved for the bootloader grub particularly with MSDOS partition tables. It is not causing any problems with the shutdown.

You should try several several boot options, not only **acpi=force**. You can try combinations (more than one each time).

It might also help to update the UEFI/BIOS system (to flash a new system if you can find a new version for your motherboard).

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2015-03-22
Hi

Try booting with the kernel parameter 

```
acpi=off
```

and then shutting down. As far as i am aware this kernel parameter is still used.

This should help implicate/eliminate ACPI as the cause may not be an ACPI issue. 

If it still does not shutdown then the problem is something different.

I have seen drivers cause the shutdown to hang so it's worth checking.

Kind regards

---

