---
title: "hub 5-0:1.0: over-current change on port 2
(Error flooding virtual consoles..)"
date: 2005-12-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by roach of discord on 2005-12-27
Hello everyone.

I installed Ubuntu today (seems great)...although, I have a problem.  I've had this problem on other distros.  On some the error only floods ONE virtual console which is fine (suse, mandrake, slackware)..yet some...I get this error on EVERY virtual console..and it's floods over and over, so I cannot do anything.  This seems to be the case with Ubuntu..and it is very annoying.

Here is the error: hub 5-0:1.0: over-current change on port 2

I believe that this is because one of my usb hubs is broken (something broke off into it).  Is there ANY way to remove this error all together..or atleast confine it to one virtual console.  As I said, on most rpm distros I only get this on one of the virtual consoles, not all... (usually alt + f12).

Help appreciated, thank you very much.

-Joe

---

### Post by Shadowfire on 2006-07-08
I have loaded Ubuntu on several machines with out insidents (except one other) till now... 

I have something simular like roach of discord is having problems with.  I have two of those poping up on console repeadly.  I can see it loading up the Ubuntu in between errors but it is to hard to do anything as the error resets the console command line.

error(s):

over-current change on port 1
over-current change on port 5
over-current change on port 1
over-current change on port 5
and so on....

I also have tried to switch to other console window.. but it is also causing the console to scroll there too... 

Does anyone if it is possible to turn off auto usb support in grub - or is there a way?

Any help would be appreciated...

---

### Post by medley_44 on 2008-07-08
Similar problem here, since upgrading to Hardy 8.04. My T42 beeps several times whenever I resume from hibernation, and is getting very irritating. Otherwise, there don't seem to be any other symptoms; my USB keyboard and mouse work just fine, and these are plugged into the only two ports on the T42.

from dmesg:

[    4.656723] PM: Finishing wakeup.
[    4.656725] Restarting tasks ... <3>hub 2-0:1.0: over-current change on port 
1
[    4.729134] done.
[    4.785118] hub 2-0:1.0: over-current change on port 2
[    4.889037] usb 2-2: USB disconnect, address 2
[    5.044930] usb 3-2: USB disconnect, address 2
[    5.172865] hub 4-0:1.0: over-current change on port 3
[    5.276763] hub 4-0:1.0: over-current change on port 4

I did use a 4-port USB hub at one point, but stopped using it a while ago.

---

### Post by ncdirtbag on 2008-07-09
I get exactly the same thing on my T42 with 8.04

Jul  8 08:32:12 stinkpad kernel: [    4.621001] PM: Finishing wakeup.
Jul  8 08:32:12 stinkpad kernel: [    4.621003] Restarting tasks ... <3>hub 2-0:1.0: over-current change on port 1
Jul  8 08:32:12 stinkpad kernel: [    4.680753] done.
Jul  8 08:32:12 stinkpad kernel: [    4.752318] hub 2-0:1.0: over-current change on port 2
Jul  8 08:32:12 stinkpad kernel: [    4.856169] hub 4-0:1.0: over-current change on port 3
Jul  8 08:32:12 stinkpad kernel: [    4.960144] hub 4-0:1.0: over-current change on port 4


but sometimes after coming back from a resume, the laptop will lock up and the little sleep icon "crecent moon" will just flash.

-dirtbag

---

