---
title: "10.04 lucid and realtek wireless drivers"
date: 2010-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mett demon on 2010-04-28
Hi everyone,
does anyone know if the realtek wireless card driver issues have been sorted? It is just so annoying not being able to use Ubuntu on my laptop when all my other PC's are running it. 
Looks darn good though doesn't it :-)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-04-28
I wasn't aware that there were any, can you be more specific?

---

### Post by mett demon on 2010-04-28
hiya,
of course, I have a compaq laptop with a realtek wireless card ( apparently compaq are moving from broadcomm to realtek ) and I cannot get the driver to install. ( I have tried various flavours of ubuntu, kubuntu and netbook remix ) I have the latest drivers from realtek installed and can see and connect to my wireless router but when I try to go online nothing happens

---

### Post by Ubulindy on 2010-04-29
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I wasn't aware that there were any, can you be more specific?

rtl8191 & rtl8192se  Toshiba Satellite P505-8000 AMD 64 bit

Wireless absolutely will NOT work. Network not reachable. Cant ping the router, cant do anything. I knew I was in trouble when I took my laptop over to a Linux programmer and he couldnt fix it either. This is a HUGE problem. Ive been using Linux for years now, and I can now see why Ubuntu will never be mainstream. I thought I would never say that. For a Linux n00b, this would certainly cause them to revert back to Windows. Good thing I kept Windows 7, and have a triple boot, or I would have no wireless at all. This is a bran new laptop... what good is a laptop with NO wireless?  VERY disappointing to say the least. If you werent aware of any problems with this, you havent used google lately. I purchased this laptop because my other PC has the Intel chipset that Ubuntu also has a problem with. Too bad I now find myself having to check issues with Ubuntu before purchasing, just so I can stay with Linux. It just should not be this difficult, and things should just work. Apparently no one on the Ubuntu team has gotten with Realtek...... I do believe this could be solved. They will release the source codes. Im not savvy enough with Linux to sort this mess out. Im very disgusted here. FYI: this driver didnt work in 9.10 either... go figure  :-/

---

### Post by azertyh on 2010-04-29
for me, it's 8187b. it works on 9.10 but not as good as on windows xp.
i wish this would be resolved on 10.04.

---

### Post by bmillham on 2010-04-29
> **Ubulindy said:**
> rtl8191 & rtl8192se  Toshiba Satellite P505-8000 AMD 64 bit

Wireless absolutely will NOT work. Network not reachable. Cant ping the router, cant do anything. I knew I was in trouble when I took my laptop over to a Linux programmer and he couldnt fix it either. This is a HUGE problem. Ive been using Linux for years now, and I can now see why Ubuntu will never be mainstream. I thought I would never say that. For a Linux n00b, this would certainly cause them to revert back to Windows. Good thing I kept Windows 7, and have a triple boot, or I would have no wireless at all. This is a bran new laptop... what good is a laptop with NO wireless?  VERY disappointing to say the least. If you werent aware of any problems with this, you havent used google lately. I purchased this laptop because my other PC has the Intel chipset that Ubuntu also has a problem with. Too bad I now find myself having to check issues with Ubuntu before purchasing, just so I can stay with Linux. It just should not be this difficult, and things should just work. Apparently no one on the Ubuntu team has gotten with Realtek...... I do believe this could be solved. They will release the source codes. Im not savvy enough with Linux to sort this mess out. Im very disgusted here. FYI: this driver didnt work in 9.10 either... go figure  :-/

I have the same laptop. I e-mailed Realtek, and they sent me the driver for Linux. Works find. Unfortunately, I broke my Ubuntu install last night, and it will no longer boot, so I can't as of right now post any more info, or even the e-mail address that I used. I hope to have Ubuntu working again tonight...

---

### Post by Ubulindy on 2010-04-29
UPDATE: My wireless is now working!  :-D   Ubuntu 10.04
 rtl8191se/8192se  (realtek )  64 bit  Toshiba Satellite AMD Dual Core

Dont bother going to "hardware drivers".... it wont be there. Download the 64 bit driver... cd to folder, sudo su, make, make clean, make install, then reboot. I was only able to finally get this working after the new kernel update today to: Kernel Linux 2.6.32-22-generic.
Oh happy days are here again!  :-D

---

### Post by mett demon on 2010-04-30
hey good news, are you using the release candidate version of ubuntu? 
 
And then there was light at the end of the tunnel... I hope.
will be trying this when i get home

---

### Post by Ubulindy on 2010-04-30
Release 10.04 Lucid Kernel Linux 2.6.32.22-generic Gnome 2.30.0
Started using it during Alpha, and I got wireless working after the kernel upgrade as of yesterday.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-04-30
My RealTek works beautifully with really strong signal strength. I can't recall the model and I'm at work now, but if you care to compare, my machine is a HP TouchSmart IQ804t. You can look up specs on that to determine the model used on it. Detected immediately and connects quickly.

---

### Post by Ayreonic on 2010-04-30
> **Ubulindy said:**
> UPDATE: My wireless is now working!  :-D   Ubuntu 10.04
 rtl8191se/8192se  (realtek )  64 bit  Toshiba Satellite AMD Dual Core

Dont bother going to "hardware drivers".... it wont be there. Download the 64 bit driver... cd to folder, sudo su, make, make clean, make install, then reboot. I was only able to finally get this wive it another goorking after the new kernel update today to: Kernel Linux 2.6.32-22-generic.
Oh happy days are here again!  :-D


After lots of searching I came across this post yesterday.
I already started my own [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463888") about my wireless problems but that's coming to a halt I think so therefor I will have a go with this thread.

I updated my kernel yesterday to version 2.6.32-22 because the reactions here gave me new hope :D
However after the installation and reboot my sound went missing... at that time I really had it with Ubuntu.

Soon after, 10.04 final was released so I thought I give it another go. Unfortunately I'm stuck at the same problems as before.

I can see my wireless network and it actually connects (this after installing the driver of  Matt Price) but browsing the internet is impossible.

Because of my earlier problems with the kernel upgrade I'm a bit scared to do that again on my freshly installed system :)

Can you people please tell me what your settings are like MTU etc etc? What do I miss :confused:

---

### Post by meles on 2010-04-30
The driver in Lucid for my Realtek RTL8191SE in my Toshiba L500 is useless now in the final version, as before. It sees the wireless card, I can see the networks and connect to them, but that's about it. Going anywhere on the Internet is not possible, and the connection drops all the time. 
There was no driver at all in Karmic, but that was much better, since a driver for Linux for this card is available on Realtek's website, which is easy to install and works perfectly. 
The problem in Lucid is that, probably because of the presence of the default, useless driver, it is not possible anymore to install the original Realtek driver (it does not appear in the list of hardware drivers). 
Moreover, if upgraded from Karmic to Lucid (I tried that too, and all other combinations as well), it will delete the original, functional driver, and install this useless driver again.
Now, if I only knew how to deactivate/uninstall Lucid's default, useless driver, in order to be able to install the card's original driver...

Does anyone know how to uninstall drivers, specifically, wireless drivers in Ubuntu?

Thank you

---

### Post by Ubulindy on 2010-04-30
> **meles said:**
> The driver in Lucid for my Realtek RTL8191SE in my Toshiba L500 is useless now in the final version, as before. It sees the wireless card, I can see the networks and connect to them, but that's about it. Going anywhere on the Internet is not possible, and the connection drops all the time. 
There was no driver at all in Karmic, but that was much better, since a driver for Linux for this card is available on Realtek's website, which is easy to install and works perfectly. 
The problem in Lucid is that, probably because of the presence of the default, useless driver, it is not possible anymore to install the original Realtek driver (it does not appear in the list of hardware drivers). 
Moreover, if upgraded from Karmic to Lucid (I tried that too, and all other combinations as well), it will delete the original, functional driver, and install this useless driver again.
Now, if I only knew how to deactivate/uninstall Lucid's default, useless driver, in order to be able to install the card's original driver...

Does anyone know how to uninstall drivers, specifically, wireless drivers in Ubuntu?

Thank you

I had tried several drivers, didnt uninstall any of them. When I used the command "make clean", I assumed it did exactly that. As far as removing that driver, just launch the wpa_gui and remove it. If you dont have that, it can be found in synaptic. Here is what I did:
Download your driver
Place on desktop
extract onto desktop
look for the .inf file
download wpa_gui (synaptic)
use wpa_gui, browse to desktop, load the .inf file
open terminal
type commands:
cd Desktop/rtl8191se (whatever the name is)   
sudo su
make
make clean
make install

**Make clean should undo all previous tries with previous drivers.  Now, re-launch wpa_gui, it should say "hardware present"
Check update manager and see if you have the kernel upgrade waiting and grab it. If it says "up to date" click on "check" . You need Kernel 2.6.32-22-generic
I beleive this was a bug in the kernel all along, bcs when I rebooted and came back on, I now have wireless. I was spending 3-4 days no sleep working on this stuff it was bothering me so much. Bran new laptop. What good is it with no wireless if I have to run to a friends house to help them on something? People get laptops for portability. With the above commands I saw some errors and ignored them. More like warnings. But now I have wireless.
Good luck to all of you!!!
PS: If you have 64 bit make sure you use the 64 bit driver, like I said, mine is Toshiba Satellite P505-8000 64 bit AMD dual core, so I used the rtl8191se/8192se 64 bit driver

---

### Post by topsykretts on 2010-05-02
hey guys im having the same problem..when i upgraded my karmic to lucid my wifi wasnt working(as usual..in karmic i had to compile my rtl8192se wifi every time i update with a new kernel)..so i recompiled my wifi but it didnt work!however,looking through this thread i noticed that updating the kernel would get the wifi to work.i checked my kernel and it wasnt up to date(my kernel is 2.6.32-21-generic-pae)..but when i go to update manager there arent any new updates!so i have no idea how i can upgrade my kernel to the latest one..can anyone help me?thanks in advance!

p.s.
i upgaded via update manager...before i upgraded i noticed that there where a few updates and a kernel was one of them..but i was so excited to upgrade so i was like enh!i'll update this later after i upgrade..do you think that caused anything/

---

### Post by Ubulindy on 2010-05-02
Im not sure. I do know that you are supposed to get your updates before you upgrade though.

---

### Post by meles on 2010-05-02
> **topsykretts said:**
> hey guys im having the same problem..when i upgraded my karmic to lucid my wifi wasnt working(as usual..in karmic i had to compile my rtl8192se wifi every time i update with a new kernel)..so i recompiled my wifi but it didnt work!however,looking through this thread i noticed that updating the kernel would get the wifi to work.i checked my kernel and it wasnt up to date(my kernel is 2.6.32-21-generic-pae)..but when i go to update manager there arent any new updates!so i have no idea how i can upgrade my kernel to the latest one..can anyone help me?thanks in advance!

p.s.
i upgaded via update manager...before i upgraded i noticed that there where a few updates and a kernel was one of them..but i was so excited to upgrade so i was like enh!i'll update this later after i upgrade..do you think that caused anything/
Upgrading to kernel 2.6.32-22 seems to have fixed the faulty RTL8191SE driver. Wireless is now working fine.

But you can't just update through Update Manager to kernel 2.6.32-22, not even if you activate the backport updates in Software Sources (it is not accepted for release yet).

You have to install the kernel manually (download it from here: [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/i386/linux-image-2.6.32-22-generic-pae/2.6.32-22.33](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/i386/linux-image-2.6.32-22-generic-pae/2.6.32-22.33) if you have the i386 version).

Good luck

---

### Post by mett demon on 2010-05-02
does anyone know if the release version (LTS) will make a difference???? or will I still have to run the kernel update????
:confused:

---

### Post by Ubulindy on 2010-05-02
I have the LTS and got my wireless working, scroll down and read the threads  :-P 
running 10.04 right now wireless

---

### Post by WilyWalrus on 2010-05-03
> **meles said:**
> Upgrading to kernel 2.6.32-22 seems to have fixed the faulty RTL8191SE driver. Wireless is now working fine.

But you can't just update through Update Manager to kernel 2.6.32-22, not even if you activate the backport updates in Software Sources (it is not accepted for release yet).

You have to install the kernel manually (download it from here: [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/i386/linux-image-2.6.32-22-generic-pae/2.6.32-22.33](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/i386/linux-image-2.6.32-22-generic-pae/2.6.32-22.33) if you have the i386 version).

Good luck

Just a random note: this tip worked for installing Lynx on a Toshiba Satellite A505. Before the fix was implemented, the wireless would display 2-4 phantom networks (semi-recognized based on the names of actual wifi networks in my apartment building.)

So, thanks from a random lurker! It would have taken me a while to replicate that solution.

---

### Post by mett demon on 2010-05-06
so i got the drivers  from h[ttp://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=48&PFid=48&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true#RTL8192SE]("http://http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=48&PFid=48&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true#RTL8192SE") and followed sudo su, make, make clean, make install and restart. 
RESULT I can see router connect, connection established, opened Firefox....
THEN server not found 0% signal... 
](*,)
Does anyone know what I am doing wrong??? 
This noob would appreciate any help as I really do not want to support Microsoft anymore

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-05-06
If you need to deactivate the old driver, you should be able to add it to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

If you can connect but can't find any websites, you might need to set up your DNS manually. If you don't know your ISP's DNS address and your router doesn't handle it automatically, you can always put in OpenDNS's addresses.

208.67.222.222
208.67.220.220

---

### Post by Ubulindy on 2010-05-06
> **mett demon said:**
> so i got the drivers  from h[ttp://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=48&PFid=48&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true#RTL8192SE]("http://http://www.realtek.com.tw/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=48&PFid=48&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false&Downloads=true#RTL8192SE") and followed sudo su, make, make clean, make install and restart. 
RESULT I can see router connect, connection established, opened Firefox....
THEN server not found 0% signal... 
](*,)
Does anyone know what I am doing wrong??? 
This noob would appreciate any help as I really do not want to support Microsoft anymore

Thanks in advance

Go into network manager and make sure your connection is set to "infastructure" and not "Ad-hoc" mode. Thats the only thing I had to do after I installed the driver and had the right kernel. I didnt have to put my SSID the MACs, nothing.  I saw my network name, clicked on it, and it connected.

---

### Post by zmjb1 on 2010-05-24
Yes, same here. I got a new laptop and was so excited to finaly give Ubuntu a try. Installed and found out wireless did not work. Had to reinstall windows. Reinstalled Ubuntu from within Windows. Spent hours on chat rooms trying to get it fixed and many hours on forums to resolve. I thought it was just me and not being familiar with Ubuntu, now I realize it is probably not me.
 
I am so dissappointed, I was psyched to get away from Windows, but looks like that in not in my future. 
 
Using Toshiba Satellite A505 with Realteck wireless card rtl8192se
 
bummed out
> **Ubulindy said:**
> rtl8191 & rtl8192se Toshiba Satellite P505-8000 AMD 64 bit
 
Wireless absolutely will NOT work. Network not reachable. Cant ping the router, cant do anything. I knew I was in trouble when I took my laptop over to a Linux programmer and he couldnt fix it either. This is a HUGE problem. Ive been using Linux for years now, and I can now see why Ubuntu will never be mainstream. I thought I would never say that. For a Linux n00b, this would certainly cause them to revert back to Windows. Good thing I kept Windows 7, and have a triple boot, or I would have no wireless at all. This is a bran new laptop... what good is a laptop with NO wireless? VERY disappointing to say the least. If you werent aware of any problems with this, you havent used google lately. I purchased this laptop because my other PC has the Intel chipset that Ubuntu also has a problem with. Too bad I now find myself having to check issues with Ubuntu before purchasing, just so I can stay with Linux. It just should not be this difficult, and things should just work. Apparently no one on the Ubuntu team has gotten with Realtek...... I do believe this could be solved. They will release the source codes. Im not savvy enough with Linux to sort this mess out. Im very disgusted here. FYI: this driver didnt work in 9.10 either... go figure :-/

---

### Post by Ubulindy on 2010-05-25
zmjb1  hi.... dont despair yet...... once you get Ubuntu up and booted, grab all the updates b4 you do anything. You will get an update to a new kernel almost immediately to 2.6.32.22 generic. Dont touch anything til you get all those updates. Reboot. Go to bottom right corner. Click on network manager. You should now see your wireless. Click on your network name, you should see a circle spinning and it should connect. There was a bug in the kernel that Ubuntu installs with and it has been fixed. You have the exact wireless I do.  :-)  Please let me know if you need further assistance.

---

### Post by zmjb1 on 2010-05-29
will check when I get time and am back home.  Thanks very much for the advice, I am most appreciative!
 
Still excited
 
> **Ubulindy said:**
> zmjb1 hi.... dont despair yet...... once you get Ubuntu up and booted, grab all the updates b4 you do anything. You will get an update to a new kernel almost immediately to 2.6.32.22 generic. Dont touch anything til you get all those updates. Reboot. Go to bottom right corner. Click on network manager. You should now see your wireless. Click on your network name, you should see a circle spinning and it should connect. There was a bug in the kernel that Ubuntu installs with and it has been fixed. You have the exact wireless I do. :-) Please let me know if you need further assistance.

---

### Post by zmjb1 on 2010-06-12
I've done as instructed and still have problems. I have a question, How can I check to see if the update worked, I'm pretty sure it did, but just want to verify.

I can not see the wireless but I typed it in. 

> **Ubulindy said:**
> zmjb1  hi.... dont despair yet...... once you get Ubuntu up and booted, grab all the updates b4 you do anything. You will get an update to a new kernel almost immediately to 2.6.32.22 generic. Dont touch anything til you get all those updates. Reboot. Go to bottom right corner. Click on network manager. You should now see your wireless. Click on your network name, you should see a circle spinning and it should connect. There was a bug in the kernel that Ubuntu installs with and it has been fixed. You have the exact wireless I do.  :-)  Please let me know if you need further assistance.

---

### Post by mett demon on 2010-07-17
after consigning myself to the fact that I would not be able to use  wireless on this laptop, I ran throught this again:
cd  directory/where/you/downloaded
sudo su
make clean
make
make install
modprobe r8192se_pci
exit[FONT=Verdana]]

as the klingons say, KAPPLAR!!
got  wireless working beautifully, the only thing I had to do is to change  was the security setting on my router..... 
luckily I have only old  folks living around me otherwise they would be mooching off my  connection as I had to change it to open
:D[/FONT]

---

### Post by mett demon on 2010-07-18
:confused:  Ok, so now I can use my wireless, but have to re-install everytime I after I switch laptop on, does anyone have any advice for this newbie???

---

### Post by HoTMetaL on 2010-07-31
> **mett demon said:**
> :confused:  Ok, so now I can use my wireless, but have to re-install everytime I after I switch laptop on, does anyone have any advice for this newbie???
It appears that this post for help coincided with another Linux kernel update to version 2.6.32.24 by the Ubuntu team. Every major kernel update usually requires manually reinstalling the driver again (that's IF you're using the driver downloaded from Realtek's [site]("http://218.210.127.131/downloads/downloadsView.aspx?Langid=1&PNid=21&PFid=48&Level=5&Conn=4&DownTypeID=3&GetDown=false")). Hopefully, the default RTL819xSE driver in Ubuntu's kernel stack will get replaced by a less buggier version in a future regular kernel update. For now, try reinstalling the driver again into this kernel as a superuser (su) and reboot immediately afterwards.

I've just installed the Realtek driver for a friend (currently version 0017, dated 5/07/2010) from Realtek's website, and I'm awaiting feedback to see if this has fixed his wireless connection problems. Also, the latest driver from Realtek apparently fixes the issue where Ubuntu 10.04 would default to using the Ubuntu-supplied firmware instead of using Realtek's. The installer script now looks for and removes Ubuntu's buggier RTL819x firmware.

---

### Post by mett demon on 2010-08-02
**Re: Wireless Driver for realtek 8192se**             
                                                                try adding r8192se_pci to /etc/modules

     Code:
     gksudo gedit /etc/modules 

                                                                                               __________________
                [COLOR=DarkRed] _When your thread it solved: go to thread tools > Mark this thread as solved_[/COLOR]
[COLOR=DarkBlue][SIZE=1]**for SIS 771/671 use xcompmgr to have transparent terminals. just load it at startup**.[/SIZE][/COLOR]

[COLOR=Indigo]**And then they asked: what's a pbkac error?**[/COLOR]             
                                                            [IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/statusicon/user_offline.gif[/IMG]                             [[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/report.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/report.php?p=9638163")                   

These are the instructions I followed, from another thread I started, and I have had no issues since. Works beautiful, without the need to reinstall each restart, case solved!
I wanted to thank everyone for their contributions and hope this thread will be of help to like minded
                                                                [[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/quote.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/newreply.php?do=newreply&p=9638163")

---

