---
title: "16.04.2 lts hangs on shutdown, need help assessing what the problem is"
date: 2017-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by slowly-drifting on 2017-05-30
As the Title states, Ubuntu is hanging on Shutdown and I can't figure out what is causing it.
I would appreciate some help assessing the problem..

-It's a fresh install of Ubuntu 16.04.2 lts. 
-Directly after installation, I updated Ubuntu via the terminal and rebooted. A ```
uname -r
``` reports: 4.8.0-53-generic
-After reboot, I installed the AMDGPU-PRO driver via [these instructions]("https://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/AMDGPU-PRO-Install.aspx") and rebooted.
-After reboot, I added my user account to the "video" group via ```
sudo usermod -a -G video $my_user_name
``` and installed the LunarG Vulkan SDK version 1.0.49.0 via [these instructions]("https://support.amd.com/en-us/kb-articles/Pages/Install-LunarG-Vulkan-SDK.aspx"), of course making sure that the paths were respective to my Vulkan work directory, and rebooted.
-Then I installed the Razer Daemon, Razer Drivers and Polychromatic for Ubuntu 16.04, and that's where the issue started..

The hanging on reboot and shutdown didn't occur until after installing the Razer Drivers for Ubuntu and the STABLE Polychromatic Controller and Tray Applet via [these instructions]("https://github.com/lah7/polychromatic"):

**Razer Drivers:**
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:terrz/razerutils
sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3-razer razer-kernel-modules-dkms razer-daemon razer-doc
```

**Polychromatic:**
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:lah7/polychromatic
sudo apt update
sudo apt install polychromatic
```


I've searched this forum for similar problems, but there seems to be no reports of Polychromatic nor the razer Daemon to have caused issues:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=15139894](https://ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=15139894)


[B]What I have tried so far to solve the issue:
[/B]Searched [Duckduckgo]("https://duckduckgo.com/?q=ubuntu+16.04.2+hangs+on+shutdown&t=canonical&atb=v66-7ad&ia=qa") for Ubuntu 16.04.2 shutdown freezing
[FONT=arial narrow][FONT=fixedsys]```
sudo systemctl reboot
```        ....system still hangs

```
sudo swapoff -a
```        ....system still hangs[/FONT][FONT=fixedsys]

```
sudo swapoff -a && sudo systemctl reboot
```     ....system still hangs

```
sudo swapoff -a && sudo systemctl poweroff
``` [/FONT]  [/FONT]....system still hangs

```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"    
to   
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="acpi=force"   
Save and Exit gedit
Run update-grub
```    .....system still hangs, no apparent failed messages anywhere

```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"    
to   
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="acpi=noirq"   
Save and Exit gedit
Run update-grub
```    .....system still hangs, no apparent failed messages anywhere

Set USB Legacy Mode to "DISABLED" in my bios, yes Bios, not Uefi.

Does anyone else know what I can do to asses the problem?

---

### Post by 7-luca on 2018-01-08
I know it's probably too late, but posting anyway in case it might help other people.
I had exactly the same problem, system hangs at reboot after installing amdgpu-pro drivers (release 492261) on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS.
The solution for me was to add:

reboot=pci

to GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT in /etc/default/grub. Then run update-grub and reboot twice (first time it will still fail obviously).

---

