---
title: "12.10 Two batteries displayed"
date: 2012-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LilLZ on 2012-11-16
Ubuntu is displaying that I have two batteries when I click on the battery icon in the top menu. The one that is always displayed is not a battery I have. I have to click on the icon to see my real battery. Whats going on and how do I fix this? I hope I actually get help, as I never do on here..

---

### Post by Abhinav Kumar on 2012-11-16
> **LilLZ said:**
> Ubuntu is displaying that I have two batteries when I click on the battery icon in the top menu. The one that is always displayed is not a battery I have. I have to click on the icon to see my real battery. Whats going on and how do I fix this? I hope I actually get help, as I never do on here..
Hi,
I sometimes have the same problem in ubuntu 10.10. However, after a restart the problem goes away.

Regards,
Abhinav

---

### Post by LilLZ on 2012-11-16
Just restarted and it didn't fix it... The level is always at 44% for the fake battery too.

---

### Post by LilLZ on 2012-11-19
I discovered that its my bluetooth mouse's battery being read as a laptop battery... any way to fix?

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2012-11-19
> **LilLZ said:**
> I discovered that its my bluetooth mouse's battery being read as a laptop battery... any way to fix?
just took the battery of the bluetooth mouse and look what's happen.
if both symbols gone be sad. if only one is gone - be happy. so you can see when you have to buy now batteries for your bluetooth.

---

### Post by ramblinche81 on 2012-11-19
> **LilLZ said:**
> Ubuntu is displaying that I have two batteries when I click on the battery icon in the top menu. The one that is always displayed is not a battery I have. I have to click on the icon to see my real battery. Whats going on and how do I fix this? I hope I actually get help, as I never do on here..

I wish I had a working battery indicator visible or available with 12.04 lTS . Did you load an additional application or was it standard  with your 12.10.

---

### Post by LilLZ on 2012-11-20
It just came working with it... Also, regarding the person who said to be happy about this... It thinks its a laptop battery and sometimes reads the batteries level wrong... Once it thought it was empty and just shut down my computer..

---

