---
title: "Windows not booting after other partition change"
date: 2011-08-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tbear2500 on 2011-08-12
I have a computer set up to dual-boot Ubuntu (sda1) and Windows (sda2).  My Windows partition was previously XP but I upgraded to 7 after getting a DX11 supporting graphics card.  To avoid massive backups, etc., I kept the XP partition (part of the reasoning for upgrading to 7 was also that I changed something that made XP BSOD at boot, making it unusable, but it still had valuable software and data), making Win7 occupy sda3.  I recently decided to make a web server out of an old computer, so I decided to back up most of the data from my old XP partition, delete the partition, and clone the hard drive from the older computer to it before installing Ubuntu Server.  Because of warnings from GPartEd about OSs failing to boot, I didn't move sda3 (still containing Win7), leading to 76GB of unallocated space (sda2 shrunk massively due to the old computer's drive only being 40GB).  Also, since many of the programs used by Win7 were on the XP partition previously, it should now be full of nonworking links.

Since Windows is largely useless, I only used Win7 for gaming.  Having gotten bored with Minecraft, I decided today for the first time since making the webserver that I wanted to blow some stuff up in Just Cause 2.  However, when I tried booting Win7 I got some error message immediately after selecting it in GRUB2, saying something like "Unable to locate <long hexadecimal hardware identifier>.  Press any key to continue." after which the message was erased and a flashing, unresponsive terminal cursor appeared.  I first thought this was Win7 mentioning the old XP partition, which shouldn't be the case because though much of the software (games and old files, primarily) was on the removed XP partition, nothing necessary for the operating system was (at least to my knowledge); it was installed to its own partition and should have needed no other.  Control-alt-delete rebooted the computer, and upon examining the Grub menu I found it was trying to boot sda2, not sda3.  I now assumed this meant it was trying to boot from the other computer's XP installation, which, finding itself on a new motherboard, couldn't handle its environment.  I tried manually changing grub.cfg, but it seemed to be using a slightly different language from Grub Legacy's menu.lst with which I was familiar.  This didn't work, so I ran update-grub and ended up back where I started (error message followed by blank nonworking terminal-esque screen), so I assume again it's trying to boot the other computer's copied XP installation (the menu still says it's on sda2 and update-grub seems not to be detecting the bootableness of sda3).  A search of the forums turned up Boot-Repair, but since it was shown as in development and showed no signs of being currently usable, I gave that up, and found no other relevant results.  Anyone have any ideas what my problem may be?  Also, I apologize if there is a more appropriate place for this, but the main support topics did not seem to have one.

---

