---
title: "22.04 vnc"
date: 2022-08-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cadryc on 2022-08-18
My father recently updated from Ubuntu 20.04 to 22.04. I had ssh access set up with preshared keys and that is still working through terminal. I also had a VNC connection through ssh in Remmina which worked flawlessly, using the inbuilt desktop sharing. After he updated to 22.04 I guided him to the desktop sharing in Ubuntu settings. I tried the settings on my own Ubuntu 22.04 first, connecting with Remmina to my own VNC instanse (127.0.0.1:5900) and that worked. But when I try to connect to my fathers VNC I get ***VNC server closed connection***, I suppose indicating that the ssh connection works but there is a VNC problem... I am pretty sure he clicked the right settings and filled in a simple password.

I do not have physical access to the computer at the moment.

Do you guys have any idea of what the problem might be?

Can I fix or check and set settings through ssh in terminal? I imagine there are some magical gsettings commands... Or are Remmina at fault?

Edit
I have run
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.remote-desktop.vnc auth-method 'password'
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.remote-desktop.vnc view-only false
systemctl start --user gnome-remote-desktop

He is using a wired connection

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-08-18
> **Cadryc said:**
> I **suppose** indicating that the ssh connection works but there is a VNC problem

(bolding mine)
"suppose"?  How are you connecting that you wouldn't be sure?
When I do VNC through ssh tunnel I first connect using ssh in a Terminal, then separately point the VNC client (Vinagre in my case) to the local end of the ssh tunnel.  Can you try this with your Remmina so that you **_know_** whether the ssh connection works?

> I imagine there are some magical gsettings commands..

If you think some gsettings command(s) would fix the problem, could your father install and use dconf-editor to troubleshoot the problem on his end?

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2022-08-18
[https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-configure-vnc-on-ubuntu-22-04](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-configure-vnc-on-ubuntu-22-04)

---

### Post by Cadryc on 2022-08-19
> **halogen2 said:**
> (bolding mine)
"suppose"?  How are you connecting that you wouldn't be sure?
When I do VNC through ssh tunnel I first connect using ssh in a Terminal, then separately point the VNC client (Vinagre in my case) to the local end of the ssh tunnel.  Can you try this with your Remmina so that you **_know_** whether the ssh connection works?



If you think some gsettings command(s) would fix the problem, could your father install and use dconf-editor to troubleshoot the problem on his end?

I used the settings within Remmina to set up the ssh tunnel, using a preshared keyfile, the same keyfile used to ssh in terminal which works.
When my fathers computer is turned off I get another error message saying ***Could not start SSh session*** so I am fairly confident that the ssh setup still works, however I don't now enough to rule out that there might be an issue with the ssh tunneling.

I looked around in dconf-editor in my own computer but don't know what settings I should change.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2022-08-20
> **Cadryc said:**
> (screwed up and doubleposted, cant find where to delete post)

You can report your own post and request that it be deleted.

> **Cadryc said:**
> I looked around in dconf-editor in my own computer but don't know what settings I should change.

If your father has the [FONT=Courier New]dconf-cli[/FONT] package installed, maybe start by running this in a ssh session in Terminal -
```
dconf dump /org/gnome/desktop/remote-desktop/
```
and compare the output to these settings on your computer where this works.

---

### Post by QIII on 2022-08-20
@Cadryc

I have removed the post you were referring to.  Users cannot delete posts.  The Staff is able to move them out of public view.

Imagine the chaos to both the database (orphaned records) and the continuity of threads if everyone could delete posts at their will.

---

