---
title: "GRUB unknown error"
date: 2009-12-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tryfon on 2009-12-24
Hello,

I installed Ubuntu 9.10 on an old computer. It has two hard drives, one 80GBs and one 40GBs.
I did the manual installation in the beginning and made a 78GB primary Ext4 partition on the 80GB drive and the rest 2GBs swap. I left the 40GB hard drive totally unformatted.
Installation went fine, but when I rebooted I got a black screen writing GRUB with a cursor flashing next to it indefinitely.

I tried reinstalling GRUB following the instructions [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20from%20LiveCD") (both methods 1 and 3) but no good.

And these are the results after running the script from [http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/)

> ============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 1.97 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive 
    in partition #1 for /boot/grub.
 => Windows is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb
sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 9.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders, total 156301488 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x19c319c2

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63   152,344,394   152,344,332  83 Linux
/dev/sda2         152,344,395   156,296,384     3,951,990  82 Linux swap / Solaris


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 40.0 GB, 40020664320 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4865 cylinders, total 78165360 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xbc32bc32

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System



blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

/dev/loop0: TYPE="squashfs" 
/dev/sda1: UUID="eaac1bea-c9d3-41d9-81e2-0dfd34cfab43" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda2: UUID="3b0aff9b-68af-4aed-8798-c78f1940548e" TYPE="swap" 

=============================== "mount" output: ===============================

aufs on / type aufs (rw)
none on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
/dev/sr0 on /cdrom type iso9660 (rw)
/dev/loop0 on /rofs type squashfs (rw)
none on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/debug type debugfs (rw)
none on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
none on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=0620)
none on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
tmpfs on /tmp type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
none on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
none on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
none on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/ubuntu/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=ubuntu)


=========================== sda1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set eaac1bea-c9d3-41d9-81e2-0dfd34cfab43
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=eaac1bea-c9d3-41d9-81e2-0dfd34cfab43 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set eaac1bea-c9d3-41d9-81e2-0dfd34cfab43
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=eaac1bea-c9d3-41d9-81e2-0dfd34cfab43 ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=eaac1bea-c9d3-41d9-81e2-0dfd34cfab43 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda2 during installation
UUID=3b0aff9b-68af-4aed-8798-c78f1940548e none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


    .0GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
    .0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
    .0GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
    .0GB: initrd.img
    .0GB: vmlinuz

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2009-12-25
Using another machine, download and create [supergrub disc.]("http://www.supergrubdisk.org/index.php?pid=5") Reboot the computer with the disc in the drive, select your language and auto linux.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-12-25
Edited and Removed Most: 

See meierfra's post below. I thought the 0.GB was abnormal (at least compared to mine) but meierfra knows how to interpret the boot info script better than anyone, so he knows!

The files seem to be in the correct location. Since reinstalling G2 didn't work, have you tried to boot via the Grub 2 command line?  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Using%20CLI%20to%20Boot]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Using%20CLI%20to%20Boot")? If you get an "unknown command" message, try using the instructions from the "Rescue" section, which includes a "set prefix..." mode.

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2009-12-25
> 0GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
.0GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
.0GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
.0GB: initrd.img
.0GB: vmlinuz 
Those numbers are perfectly normal.  They are the physical location of those files on the hard drive.    The .0GB just says that all the boot files are located  somewhere in first 0.1 gigabyte of the hard drives  (These numbers are listed on RESULTS.txt since some Bios can only read the first 137GB of the hard drive)

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2009-12-30
Thanks a lot for the help everyone and sorry for the late reply but I haven't been close to my computer for a while.
drs305, I don't even get the GRUB menu. I only get a line writing 'GRUB' with a cursor flashing next to it. And the system doesn't respond to everything I have tried except "Ctrl+Alt+Del".
I will try the supergrub disk as labinnsw suggests.

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2009-12-30
I managed to boot the new installation with the use of supergrubdisk but I would like it not to be necessary to have the disk inserted every time I boot up my computer. What should I do?

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2009-12-30
> I rebooted I got a black screen writing GRUB with a cursor flashing next to it indefinitely.

Does it just say "GRUB" or "GRUBGRUBGRUBGRUB.........."?
Are you able type anything at that  screen?


> I managed to boot the new installation with the use of supergrubdisk

How exactly did you succeed to boot?  (Supergrub has many options) 
Which version of Supergrub are you using, Grub or Grub2?

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2009-12-30
Once SuperGrub boots the computer it simultaneously repairs Grub. You should now be able to boot without the disk.

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2009-12-31
@meierfra It just says GRUB. When it boots with supergrub I get the familiar GRUB menu with only one option in the list "First Keernel and Initrd". I hit enter and it boots but if I try again afterwards without the supergrubdisk I get the same problem.
It is GRUB v1.96 in the supergrubdisk.

---

### Post by Leppie on 2009-12-31
sorry for my ignorance, i've never tried supergrub disk.
does supergrub disk take you into *_your_* system?
if so, you can try issuing these commands:
```
$sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sda
$sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2010-01-01
Leppie, I've already tried that several times and didn't work. It's really weird...

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-01
are you booting with the super grub disk now?

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2010-01-01
Yes, it doesn't work without it.

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2010-01-01
Check your bios and make sure it's set to boot from the 80 GB drive.  You might also see what happens when you unplug your 40 GB drive.

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-02
Post these 2 files

/boot/grub/device.map
/boot/grub/menu.lst

If necessary, I will edit and post back here with an explanation of what I have done.

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2010-01-02
Wow! Strange, there is no menu.lst file in the folder! But there is no such file on my other Ubuntu computer either and it works just fine.

The contents of device.map are:
```
(fd0)	/dev/fd0
(hd0)	/dev/sda
(hd1)	/dev/sdb
```

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2010-01-02
Ok, I removed totally the 40GB drive, reinstalled GRUB but still get the same problem.
I inserted an Ubuntu 9.10 disk and started the computer by selecting boot from first hard disk and it worked just fine. I don't get it...

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-02
Any chance you can double check that? The device.map and the menu.lst go hand in hand. They depend on each other to work.

I have a menu.lst on my 9.10. Can any body else confirm that it is not on theirs?

The symptoms are indicative of an error which can be corrected by either editing the device.map or menu.lst, or both.

try this

(fd0)	/dev/fd0
(hd0)	/dev/sdb
(hd1)	/dev/sda

You will need to do it as root. 
```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/device.map
```

Explanation:
Change of boot sequence, b before a

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-01-02
> **labinnsw said:**
> I have a menu.lst on my 9.10. Can any body else confirm that it is not on theirs?

If the user upgraded from Jaunty the menu.lst will still be present since the default bootloader remains Grub legacy. If the user elects to install and use Grub 2 the old Grub legacy menu.lst file is retained in case the user decides to revert back to Grub or wants to reference the file contents. 

Users who do a clean install of Karmic from the LiveCD won't have menu.lst (unless it was on a separate /boot disk) as Grub 2 is the default install and doesn't use that file.

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-02
> **drs305 said:**
> Users who do a clean install of Karmic from the LiveCD won't have menu.lst (unless it was on a separate /boot disk) as Grub 2 is the default install and doesn't use that file.

Thanks for the heads up. I will do a clean virtual installation and poke around a bit to reacquaint myself.

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2010-01-02
Post mortem: I get the feeling that the squash filesystem that exists is what is causing Ubuntu to not boot grub properly from /dev/sda.  The BIOS was probably pointing to look at that first (fd0).  Perhaps somebody stuck in the boot partition in a tiny squash fs which got mapped to the floppy drive. Perhaps it has its own linux distro??

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-02
> **john newbuntu said:**
> Post mortem: I get the feeling that the squash filesystem that exists is what is causing Ubuntu to not boot grub properly from /dev/sda.  The BIOS was probably pointing to look at that first (fd0).  Perhaps somebody stuck in the boot partition in a tiny squash fs which got mapped to the floppy drive. Perhaps it has its own linux distro??

isn't that what the livecd's use to emulate fd boot in order to provide compatibility with older systems?

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2010-01-02
You are correct Leppie.

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2010-01-02
I tried playing around with the device.map file, I even tried removing the floppy disk drive but nothing worked.

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-02
OK /boot/grub/grub.cfg is **not** to be edited. If you post it's contents here though, I can examine it to see what exactly needs to be changed in the device.map file to synchronize with it.

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-02
> **labinnsw said:**
> OK /boot/grub/grub.cfg is **not** to be edited. If you post it's contents here though, I can examine it to see what exactly needs to be changed in the device.map file to synchronize with it.

he already posted the contents when he posted the RESULTS.txt in post #1

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-02
> **Leppie said:**
> he already posted the contents when he posted the RESULTS.txt in post #1

Thanks for pointing that out. It was too much info for me to digest all at once. I nearly asked for fstab as well.

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-02
> **meierfra. said:**
> _Check your bios_ and make sure it's set to boot from the 80 GB drive.

The original device.map looks fine. The answer might well be in meierfra's post.

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2010-01-02
Since grub is not even able to enter "rescue" mode, it seems that the booting process is going wrong very early on. 

So I would guess that there is a bios or hardware problem. Or maybe your floppy drive is interfering with the booting. 

I suggest to look in your bios to see whether there are any settings which can be changed (make sure that you write down the original setting before you change anything).  Also see whether the hard drive  and floppy drive are  plugged in correctly. Check on the cables.  Anything in the floppy drive?


To you have an IDE or a SATA drive?

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-02
are the disks different systems? e.g. 1 ide and 1 sata?

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2010-01-02
One is an 80GB  Western Digital ATA WDC WD800JB-00JJ and the other one a 40GB Seagate ATA ST340016A.

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-02
Another scenario I thought of is: the MBR is on one disk and the boot flag is on the other.

If that is the case he may need to re-install grub again, making sure that the correct disk is flagged.

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2010-01-02
> Another scenario I thought of is: the MBR is on one disk and the boot flag is on the other.

According to RESULTS.txt the boot flag in on /dev/sda1 (just where it should be) The other drive is unformated  and as no boot flag. Also the OP already tried to boot with the 40GB drive removed. So the second drive is not to blame.

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-21
I finally found the solution today when I got my Linux Format Magazine Issue 128.

After booting up with SuperGrub Disk, in a terminal run the following 2 commands

```
sudo update-grub
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```

I also noticed that leppie had already posted a variation of this, so I am giving credit where credit is due.

---

### Post by Tryfon on 2010-01-21
labinsw, this was one of the first things I tried to do. It didn't work back then, it didn't work now either. Thanks for the effort anyway. Any other idea?

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-01-21
Boot into the ubuntu Live CD

In a terminal run the following commands
```
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
sudo mount --bind /dev /mnt/dev
sudo chroot /mnt
update-grub
grub-install /dev/sda
```
Reboot into your Ubuntu installation.

In a terminal run the following commands
```
update-grub
grub-install /dev/sda
```
When you reboot the second time it should be fixed.

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2010-01-21
> I inserted an Ubuntu 9.10 disk and started the computer by selecting boot from first hard disk and it worked just fine. 

This shows that grub is configured correctly. I have seen  a couple  cases like this before (with Legacy Grub and Grub 2), but Grub plainly refused to boot the system.  So I suggest to give lilo a try:

[http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/p4.html#Install_Lilo_from_Synaptic_Package_Manager](http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/p4.html#Install_Lilo_from_Synaptic_Package_Manager)

---

