---
title: "10.04.1, GRUB Trouble"
date: 2010-08-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aer0usa on 2010-08-25
Hi, I'll try to tell the short version of my story...

Updated from 8.04 to 10.04.1 last week. Mostly OK, a few little problems, but let's just talk about the big one right now.

I'm pretty sure I brought the problem on myself. In Startup-Manager, in the Advanced tab, I clicked the "Restore Defaults" button.

When I rebooted, right after the GRUB 1.5 message, it told me "File not found in line 15" and "press any key to continue".

I pressed a key and it took me to the GRUB menu that allows me to choose a version of Ubuntu and a kernel. However, it only shows Ubuntu 8.04 and the old kernels that were installed before I updated to 10.04.1.

So, I guess that since I restored defaults in Startup-Manager, it is trying to run the old version of GRUB or at least the old configuration. It would make sense, since if it tried to boot any of those old kernels, the file would be missing since they got deleted during the upgrade.

I panicked a bit at first, but I think if someone who knows a bit about GRUB can steer me in the right direction, I should be able to fix the GRUB config and get on with my life. Right? Can someone please help me with that?

Thanks in advance!
Eric

---

### Post by aer0usa on 2010-08-25
Hi, I've answered my own question.

I looked at these two pages:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_GRUB](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_GRUB)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

I found /boot/grub/menu.lst and found that indeed it had none of the new Ubuntu or kernel listings in it. I added an entry for the Ubuntu 10.04 and a new kernel, copying the filenames from the /boot/grub directory.

That allowed me to boot my computer. Then I was able to do **update-grub**.

Now my computer boots normally again. **WHEW!!**

Now on with the other little teething problems.

Thanks for reading,
Eric

---

