---
title: "How to Restore Desktop after upgrade from 12.04 LTS to 14.04 LTS"
date: 2015-01-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-02
After "bricking" my Grub with a bad backup CD (12.04 LTS) I have now managed to get a good copy of 14.04 LTS (32 bit) onto a USB flash drive and it is bootable. I ran the software updater tool/manager and directed it to load the 14.04 LTS on top (replace) the old 12.04 install of my primary hard drive. It took two attempts with the install to get the Grub straightened out.

Having said that, I now want to get my now blank Desktop back to some resemblance of what it looked like under 12.04 LTS. Can someone direct me to an area that explains how to extract the files I need (including browser bookmarks, Evolution mail data, etc) to get things functioning like they did under the previous version? I have a separate hard drive that I used for storing the data generated by the backup utility. And I have a separate /Home/User partition on the primary drive. The backup utility was basically collecting data from the /Home partition only.

I looked in the /Home folder user area and was wondering if it was OK to copy the Desktop folder contents and dump it into the new Desktop? Is this the right way to do this? I do know when I tried to click on one of the files (linking to another folder/function) it said the link was broken/ the target does not exist. How do you restore the links?

See attached pic.

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-02
is there a tutorial online that explains the different processes necessary to get your computer back to where it was before an upgrade? For example, I now have 14.04 LTS loaded and running where 12.04 LTS once ran.

Current issues:

blank Desktop
no Evolution email handler
no Google bookmarks
no restorable archives shown in Backup utility

The data is there in my user folder, such as under .config for Google but I haven't a clue how to link this stuff all together.

This is all quite confusing & overwhelming for a neophyte Linux user. Someone point me in the right direction, **please**. :confused:

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-03
How did you create links originally.
Some I believe have used settings in Desktop, I used links, and some like Bind.

But you need to create a mount, mount the data partition(s) in fstab so they are permanently mounted and edit links, or create bind or edit Desktop. Do you have a copy of your old fstab?

       bind examle- User Morbius1 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2259148](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2259148)


 Data can be shared without the possible conflicts of user settings being different in different versions. I only copy some settings from one install to the next, normally. But I have to separately back up /home and the /data partition. Also saves the error of reformating a /home partition accidentally. I never reformat my /data and just configure / for install.

   Splitting home directory discussion and details:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811198)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1901437](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1901437)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1734233&highlight=%2Fdata](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1734233&highlight=%2Fdata)
User Morbius1 prefers bind over linking in post #4
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2192848](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2192848)

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-04
"How did you create links originally."

I did not consciously create links as I am unsure what you mean by doing that. I just ran update manager and it did everything. I need to get an understanding of links and how to create them as it seems to be an important aspect of a well behaved Linux OS.


"But you need to create a mount, mount the data partition(s) in fstab so they are permanently mounted and edit links, or create bind or edit Desktop. Do you have a copy of your old fstab?"

I don't believe I have a copy of my old fstab. My backup archive was only for the /Home partition data. I gather the fstab I  looked at in /etc is new. It was my understanding that having a separate partition for /Home and backing it up periodically was all I needed to do to protect myself. Evidently that isn't true. 

Could I get an example of creating a mount, mounting the data partitions in fstab, editing links? I have never done this.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
# / was on /dev/sda7 during installation
UUID=b2a121db-dca8-4eec-87e2-96269a09dfdd /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=2a8810b8-d6e6-4c2b-a89c-fb345ca0a122 none            swap    sw              0       0

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-04
Link above by Morbius1 is a good example of using bind. That creates a mount point, and then binds a path to the folder with your data. I think you then have to have many binds if you have many data folders.

I use links and a data partition with all the standard folders like Music, Documents, etc plus a few more. I then just mount data partition and add links.

Good example of mounting a partition, shows both NTFS and ext4 templates to copy & paste. You do have to edit to your UUID and create your mount lie /mnt/data or /media/data or whatever mount you like.

This is manual creating a partition and manually mounting it. You can unmount it and reuse it as the permanent mount in fstab if desired. It also does the essential task of giving yourself permission and ownership.

 #if not known to list partitions, change sda5 to your data partition or create multiples with different mount points
# is comment, do not type
sudo parted -l
sudo mkdir /mnt/data
sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt/data
#where sda5 needs to be your drive, partition
sudo chmod -R a+rwX,o-w /mnt/data
# Note that the -R is recursion and everything is changed, do NOT run on any system partitions.
#All directories will be 775.
#All files will be 664 except those that were set as executable to begin with.
sudo chown -R $USER:$USER /mnt/data

      
 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1983336](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1983336)
Mount & edit fstab from user Morbius1 in Post # 6 - suggest using templates instead.
Good example of manually mounting, except I prefer /mnt/xxx as location to mount to.

Links above on splitting home show the details, some the same as above on linking.

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-04
@oldfred

Hmmm...this is getting more involved than I imagined with the task of learning link commands & setting up all the necessary links. I am grasping at straws here but would it be helpful at all to copy my backup archive 
[/media/ed/Backupdrive/Backup Archives/duplicity-full-signatures.20141222T023626Z.sigtar.gpg ; 1 of several for that backup date] back into the /Home partition? The backup is 99% of all my user files on the /Home partition. I may of just made a realization about things: my /Home partition data has changed since the upgrade from 12.04 to 14.04. I was under the impression the /Home partition was not modified during an upgrade. So if I did invoke a restore would that put the old data back in there and would it be compatible with the upgrade? 

 
Option 2: If I go for a clean sweep and install, which will kill my old copy of MS XP, would this reestablish the links in question? Would everything tie back together after I copied onto the /Home partition my data from a backup source. If it's not a sure thing I don't want to try it and fail as I would just be digging a deeper hole.    ed

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-05
If you have started to change settings in 14.04 and saved data in you new /home that will be lost when you restore your old /home unless you back that up.
I prefer to do new installs, I have a few settings I automatically change, particularily fallback/gnome-panel and a few other settings. Since I like to do test installs, I have learned what I need to change and have scripted some of that.

If you had links to your NTFS partition, that was in fstab, which will not be restored. You needed to back that up separately. Anything you manually change that is system wide is in /etc. I change some grub, nfs, fstab and copy those few changes into my /home so my normal /home backup includes those settings.

The /home without your data is tiny so that is why I like to separate my data from my /home. I then easily can backup /home and separately backup my data as needed.

Adding entries in fstab is not all that difficult, if you just copy the templates shown in links above.
If really unsure, post sudo blkid, sudo fdisk -l and cat fstab and I can post a template with your UUID.

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-06
Fred, I'll take you up on that offer!


ed@ed-G41MT-S2PT:~$ sudo blkid
[sudo] password for ed: 
/dev/sda1: UUID="30182B1D182AE218" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda5: LABEL="HOME" UUID="3d34262b-e98a-441c-bc7a-e3a3989d1378" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda6: UUID="2a8810b8-d6e6-4c2b-a89c-fb345ca0a122" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/sda7: UUID="b2a121db-dca8-4eec-87e2-96269a09dfdd" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sdb1: LABEL="Backupdrive" UUID="7a117704-c5b0-4858-92c4-16e95deb55f9" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sdb5: LABEL="Drive 2: sdb5" UUID="07cbf7e3-e34c-429a-b26a-00dbe44a9884" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3"

******************************************************************
 
ed@ed-G41MT-S2PT:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 250.1 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders, total 488397168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00460046

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *          63   102398309    51199123+   7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
/dev/sda2       160992122   488396799   163702339    5  Extended
/dev/sda5       161003493   283884614    61440561   83  Linux
/dev/sda6       160992124   161003429        5653   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda7       283885568   488396799   102255616   83  Linux

Partition table entries are not in disk order

Disk /dev/sdb: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders, total 312581808 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x36de36de

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1              63   152253022    76126480   83  Linux
/dev/sdb2       152254462   312580095    80162817    5  Extended
/dev/sdb5       214048768   308457471    47204352   83  Linux


******************************************************************


ed@ed-G41MT-S2PT:~$ cd /etc
ed@ed-G41MT-S2PT:/etc$ cat fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
# / was on /dev/sda7 during installation
UUID=b2a121db-dca8-4eec-87e2-96269a09dfdd /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=2a8810b8-d6e6-4c2b-a89c-fb345ca0a122 none            swap    sw              0       0
ed@ed-G41MT-S2PT:/etc$

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-06
Fred,

Attached is a screenshot of my drive partitioning. I am thinking of moving my data to a separate storage area from /Home for the reasons you mentioned. 
Where would you recommend I relocate them to?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-07
Generally I suggest smaller system partitions and larger data partitions, both Windows & Linux.
And for Ubuntu I have a 25GB partition for / (root) and actually use about 11GB, but am aggressive about moving data to data partition(s).

Because you have the separate /home your 95GB / partition is using 6GB, so you can shrink it a lot and it should only grow some. Regular housecleaning will prevent too much growth. Only if you install every application Ubuntu has might it use a lot more.
You also have 28GB after the NTFS partition. You could also use that for data. 

I use /mnt, you may want to use /media. The /mnt will not show in Nautilus left panel, but /media may show twice (second with underscore) and the second one will not be valid as it already is mounted.
       Better to make a Windows c: drive as read only to avoid accidental damage:
sudo mkdir /mnt/WinXP

 sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
UUID=30182B1D182AE218 /mnt/WinXP ntfs defaults,nls=utf8,umask=227,uid=1000     0 0
```
Note: the WinXP line will allow you (uid 1000) to read but not write to the partition. If you want to prevent all access then change the umask value to: umask=777. That will prevent all access - except for root.

After any edit of fstab run this to remount. If no errors it will just return and your XP will be mounted. If errors you must fix before rebooting.
sudo mount -a

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-07
Fred,

Is executing this line of code [UUID=30182B1D182AE218 /mnt/WinXP ntfs defaults,nls=utf8,umask=227,uid=1000     0 0] to allow me to do a clean install of  14.04 LTS without losing the XP partition? If so, what option do you select when running the upgrade from my Ubuntu zip drive? 

Thanks,

Ed

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-08
Unless you save your settings in fstab or anything else you manually edit that is system wide and in /etc like grub or networking, they all get overwritten with a new install. 
All your user settings are in /home and if you have a separate /home and mount (But DO NOT tick the format button) during install all your /home settings & data will be in new install. If you have installed a lot of applications best to export that list to make it easy to reinstall them. Any settings each apps has will still be in /home.

These all show the something else install and are similar. 
 Lots of detail, screenshots and essential info.14.04  Something Else example
[http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-14-04-install-guide.html](http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/ubuntu-14-04-install-guide.html)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/343268/how-to-use-manual-partitioning-during-installation](http://askubuntu.com/questions/343268/how-to-use-manual-partitioning-during-installation)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/163962/install-alongside-option-missing-how-do-i-install-ubuntu-beside-windows-using](http://askubuntu.com/questions/163962/install-alongside-option-missing-how-do-i-install-ubuntu-beside-windows-using)

   Any install with Something Else which is required with  external drives or any second drive or any install with separate /home
Also shows combo box with location of grub2 boot loader
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing)
Does not hightlight changing boot loader to sdb, if external drive, but shows other install screenshots:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/312782/how-to-install-ubuntu-on-separate-hard-drive-in-a-dual-boot](http://askubuntu.com/questions/312782/how-to-install-ubuntu-on-separate-hard-drive-in-a-dual-boot)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/274371/install-on-second-hard-drive-with-startup-boot-optiond](http://askubuntu.com/questions/274371/install-on-second-hard-drive-with-startup-boot-optiond)
Install 14.04 Something Else explanation and screenshots (note boot load to VM, most may install to MBR of drive sda, or sdb)
[http://www.tecmint.com/ubuntu-14-04-installation-guide/](http://www.tecmint.com/ubuntu-14-04-installation-guide/)
And you want this screen to choose where to install the grub2 boot loader which is only available with Something Else or manual install
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Installing_Ubuntu_to_a_Specific_Partition_.28.22Something_Else.22.29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Installing_Ubuntu_to_a_Specific_Partition_.28.22Something_Else.22.29):

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-08
"If you have installed a lot of applications best to export that list to make it easy to reinstall them."

Fred, 

Direct me to a location for reading up on exporting application lists. Is there an easy way to generate that list or are you simply talking about a text file. BTW, is Synaptic Package Manager still being used in 14.04?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-09
They stopped installing synaptic when they started using Software Center. But I always install synaptic as I want to learn package names and see different details that Software Center does not show.

       Oldfred's list of stuff to backup May 2011 (still current):
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748541](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1748541)
More detail on /etc files and others to backup - post #3:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1500559](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1500559)
Some files(temp, cache etc) to exclude from /home backup - post #8 by  Paddy Landau
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1883834](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1883834)


 
from lovinglinux - use dpkg to list installed apps
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157175&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=7157175&postcount=5)
[http://kevin.vanzonneveld.net/techblog/article/restore_packages_using_dselectupgrade/](http://kevin.vanzonneveld.net/techblog/article/restore_packages_using_dselectupgrade/)
From old install
dpkg --get-selections > ~/my-packages
From New install
sudo dpkg --set-selections < my-packages
sudo apt-get -y update
sudo apt-get dselect-upgrade

The dpkg list is a very long text list. You may want to edit out old kernels and some packages. It includes all the dependencies. It will not reinstall anything already installed.

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-11
Thanks for the information Fred. I need to get busy reading all your recommended links.... Ed

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-20
Hey Fred!

Reloaded 14.04 LTS with a clean sweep of partitions; no more XP. I just let the installer do it's thing with the partitioning. The attached screenshot shows the setup. 
What would you recommend now? I need to read up on how to move /Home area to a separate partition.

Ed

P.S. The Grub Loader won't let me make any selections (ie...memory test); no keyboard input accepted. And I need to speed up the boot delay time.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-21
The auto install just creates / (root) and swap which you have. I do prefer using Something Else to install and have a 20 or 25GB / and rest as /home and/or /mnt/data partition(s).

From live installer with gparted, you can shrink / and then create a new ext4 partition.
       To move /home uses rsync- Be sure to use parameters to preserve ownership & permissions 
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)

If keyboard not working with grub it may be a BIOS setting. I always had to go into BIOS and turn on USB keyboard & mouse. PS/2 port did work, but hassle going back and forth. It seems that Windows & Linux use USB drivers, but grub just relies on BIOS setting.

---

### Post by ozark_hillbilly on 2015-01-24
Thanks Fred!  The BIOS setting for keyboard USB was preventing the GRUB selection.

I really appreciate all your help Fred.... I will mark this thread Solved as I currently don't have any outstanding issues regarding the upgrade to 14.04 LTS. Just need to download and install some missing apps.
Cheers,
Ed

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-01-24
Glad you got it working. :)

---

