---
title: ".run installation"
date: 2009-04-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by corpsehacker on 2009-04-03
Hey, Im new Green as grass and dont get how to install .run files. is there a program I can install to help with this or a terminal command. thanks.):P

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-04-03
Assuming the file is on your desktop (~/Desktop), you would do something like these from a terminal to install it.

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
cd ~/Desktop
chmod +x filename.run
./filename.run
-or-
sudo ./filename.run <-- If you need root privilege.
```

---

### Post by corpsehacker on 2009-04-04
when I do that it got me further than ever before so thanks but then it says " ERROR: nvidia-installer must be run as root". what is a root? P.S. The file is a nvidia driver called "NVIDIA-Linux-x86-180.44-pkg1.run"

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-04-04
If you plan to install nvidia driver for your graphic card, you first need to shut down the X server.

By the way, have you looked in System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers to see if you can install nvidia driver from there?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-04-04
Just to add a bit of information - you put the word 'sudo' at the front of the command so that you can gain root privileges in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by corpsehacker on 2009-04-04
I looked under hardware drivers and it found the right drivers so thanks, but then after installing the drivers and restarting my computer, a black screen with white lettering came up and i had to reinstall ubuntu 8.10 what should I do?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-04-04
What model of nvidia card do you have and which version did you install from System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers?

---

### Post by corpsehacker on 2009-04-05
I have an nvidia 6800 OC and first installed driver version 177 (which was recommended) then 173 and both did the same thing. I think I might have to update Gnome.

---

