---
title: "8.10 Intrepid Ibex LTS ?"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PPPP on 2008-11-07
Is there an 8.10 Intrepid Ibex LTS?  I've been using LTS since 7.04 so I would like to continue the trend.

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-11-07
No.  Intrepid is not an LTS release.

---

### Post by OrangeCrate on 2008-11-07
There have been two Long Term Support versions of Ubuntu.  Ubuntu 6.06 (Dapper Drake), and Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron).

There's really nothing special about the releases other than they're supported for three years on the desktop, and five years as a server. They're meant primarily for enterprise (business) roll-outs.

All of the other releases, such as the current 8.10 (Intrepid), and your previous release 7.04, are supported for 18 months, and are not designated LTS releases.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-7.04-end-of-life](http://www.ubuntu.com/news/ubuntu-7.04-end-of-life)

> Release 6.06&#8212;and recently 8.04&#8212;have been labeled as a Long Term Support (LTS), to indicate support with updates for three years on the desktop and five years on the server, with paid technical support available from Canonical Ltd.

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu)

---

### Post by PPPP on 2008-11-08
My problem is I have 7.10 LTS.  When I click on Update Manager, there's only 8.04 LTS available as a distribution upgrade.  How do I upgrade my install now?  Or do I have to do a fresh install?

---

### Post by Raouf on 2008-11-08
> **PPPP said:**
> My problem is I have 7.10 LTS.  When I click on Update Manager, there's only 8.04 LTS available as a distribution upgrade.  How do I upgrade my install now?  Or do I have to do a fresh install?

because Hardy Heron is LTS so It's supported for 2011 but Intrepid Ibex will be supported only to April 2010 so you'll see Hardy Heron as only upgrade

to override this problem Administration> Software Sources
then click on "update" Tab
in Release Update Section
choose "Normal releases" not only LTS releases

btw Ubuntu 7.10 isn't LTS :)

take care
- Raouf

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2008-11-08
7.10 is not a LTS release.

To upgrade you first upgrade to 8.04, then to 8.10.

It *may* be easier to do a fresh install (certainly would be less bandwidth).

---

### Post by snowpine on 2008-11-08
If you want 8.10, you need to upgrade in stages, first from 7.10 to 8.04, then from 8.04 to 8.10. 

Some users choose to back everything up, install 8.10 fresh, and then restore their documents from the backup. 

There are pros and cons to both methods...

---

### Post by PPPP on 2008-11-08
Is it worth going from 7.10 to 8.10?  I took a look at the changes but I can't say anything jumped out at me as a must have...part of the reason why I'm looking to upgrade was because I wanted to installed MoneyManagerEX but it complained about libc being out of date or something.  In another post, someone said I can't just upgrade libc but have to upgrade the distro because it depends on libc?  

What do you guys think?  Is it worth upgrading?  I'm also noticing there's a memory leak with Xgl and I'm using it with Compiz.  Is this fixed (or better) on 8.10?

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2008-11-08
if you need to use MoneyManagerEX, and MoneyManagerEX requires 8.10, then that's that... time to upgrade/fresh install. :)

---

