---
title: "64 or 32 bit?"
date: 2012-12-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheOne2 on 2012-12-29
The Netflix desktop application and a few other applications I try to run on Ubuntu seem to be having issues for me on 64 bit. It failed to install firefox, and idk how to get it to work. I am having a few issues with this release so I was going to try out 32 bit and see if it is any more stable.

Bare with me here, noob question, but I don't want a trollish answer about how I should just continue using 64 bit since I am obviously having more issues than its worth for me. After having upgraded from 11.10(which was 32 bit and everything seemingly worked) and now with 12.10, the only change is that I am using 64 bit. I doubt very much that the problem is me, or the developers here. I just think it is the immaturity of 64 bit.

In all honesty I think 32 bit should be just developed to utilize the ram.

Which leads to my next question, will 32 bit see all 8gb of ram out of the box?

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-12-29
> **TheOne2 said:**
> After having upgraded from 11.10(which was 32 bit and everything seemingly worked) and now with 12.10, the only change is that I am using 64 bit.

Not sure how you managed to upgrade from 32bit to 64bit as clean install would be your only route.

> In all honesty I think 32 bit should be just developed to utilize the ram.

It does, on detection of more than 3 gigs of ram, the PAE kernel should be installed allowing you use of all your RAM.

> Which leads to my next question, will 32 bit see all 8gb of ram out of the box?

As above.

---

### Post by Yougo on 2012-12-29
[S]As far as I know, 32 bit will not be able to see all that RAM.[/s] 
I actually know about pae, slipped my mind...
Also, though it seems it an answer you don't want to hear, I think you're a bit quick to ascribe the troubles you have to the 64 bit system. 

If certain programs are giving you trouble, please elaborate on those. I can't speak for netflix, but FireFox should not have any trouble with 64 bits. Also it would help to tell us what hardware you are using.

There are ways to get a 32 bit program to run on a 64 bit system, should the 64 bit version be confirmed troublesome.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-12-29
I have used 64 bit since 9.10 and have not found any programs I have needed to use that were 32 bit only. I'm sure there are examples though. 

> It failed to install firefox,  Firefox is a default program and if it were missing I would suspect a problem with the 12.10 ISO. As written and upgrade from 32 bit to 64 bit is not possible but a clean installation is.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-12-29
While PAE will use the memory it has to swap it in and out as it cannot directly address that much. Limits of 32bit. 

       Linus does not like PAE or 32 bit.
[http://cl4ssic4l.wordpress.com/2011/05/24/linus-torvalds-about-pae/](http://cl4ssic4l.wordpress.com/2011/05/24/linus-torvalds-about-pae/)


   [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physical_Address_Extension](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physical_Address_Extension)
PAE is provided by Intel Pentium Pro and above CPUs, including all later Pentium-series processors (except most 400 MHz-bus versions of the Pentium M)


I have seen several posts on netflix and I did not know that even worked.

---

### Post by bodueko on 2012-12-29
Simple choice. 64bit all the way. 

Tested both on multiple systems and found that the 64bit has more strength to withstand vulnerability attacks. The 32 bit was experiencing system lock-ups and aggressive shut-downs under high attack pressure.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-12-29
> **bodueko said:**
> Simple choice. 64bit all the way. 


I truly do not understand why all these people who have "problems" that they blame on 64-bit software don't go all the way and use an 8-bit computer.

I am sure I still have a Z80 CPU lying around somewhere that they can use to solve all their issues.....

---

### Post by haqking on 2012-12-29
> **dcstar said:**
> I truly do not understand why all these people who have "problems" that they blame on 64-bit software don't go all the way and use an 8-bit computer.

I am sure I still have a Z80 CPU lying around somewhere that they can use to solve all their issues.....

64 bit is twice as difficult for people ;-)

---

