---
title: "64 bit 10.04 on Radeon HD 5750 - Display fails during installation"
date: 2010-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-08-31
I just finished building my new machine. I've got windows 7 running just fine on it, but I wanted to dual boot Ubuntu 10.04. I downloaded the 64 bit iso and tried installing it from both a live cd and a usb drive. 

When I boot from either (cd or usb), I see the Ubuntu loading/boot screen, but after the data is loaded, my display goes black and seems not to be able to find a signal.

I assumed initially that it was probably due to the fact that I was connecting to my tv by HDMI cable. I guessed that Ubuntu did not have HDMI drivers for my video card, ATI Radeon HD 5750, by default. 

Then today, my new monitor arrived and I switched to the DVI output on my video card. I assumed that this would allow me to boot and install. I was wrong. I experienced the same symptoms on my monitor via DVI as I did on my TV via HDMI.

Does anybody have any ideas as to why my monitor drops the signal as soon as it leaves the loading/boot screen?

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-08-31
try and press **F4** when the CD starts to boot for** minimal** graphics mode
or maybe **F6**   and add ```
nomodeset
```

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-08-31
It's installed, but still doesn't boot now. It responds exactly the same after the bootscreen.

I didn't try your advice, but I did get it installed. I used the alternate ISO to do a text-based install. Once installed though, I pick ubuntu from GRUB and it goes to the loading/boot screen, then no signal.

I've read around and it doesn't seem that anybody else has had any issues with display on the same video card. I'm not sure where to go from here at all.

It's really strange because I was able to use other live-cd distros of linux, just not ubuntu. Both the Macrium Recovery CD and the GPartEd live cds booted up just fine.

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-01
Is it bad etiquette to bump a thread on these forums?

---

### Post by robertu on 2010-09-01
I had the same experience with a Radeon HD5570 - no installation - only a black screen.

I removed the videocard from the pc, and am now using the onboard video (see your bios settings). Works perfect - I do not need the videocard (with the extra fan on it).

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-09-01
Try pressing 'e' when the ubuntu kernel is selected in grub and edit the kernel line removing "quiet splash" and adding "nomodeset"

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-01
My mobo has no onboard video card. Besides that, I bought my video card for a reason. That said, "take your video card out," is not a solution.

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-01
> **andrewthomas said:**
> Try pressing 'e' when the ubuntu kernel is selected in grub and edit the kernel line removing "quiet splash" and adding "nomodeset"

I'll give that a shot as soon as I get the chance.

---

### Post by aowdnmp on 2010-09-01
start in vga mode, install the latest driver fot HD57XX, run* aticonfig --initial -f *and it should be ok

--edit: sorry i misread, i didn't read that tha problem was during installation...

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-02
> **andrewthomas said:**
> Try pressing 'e' when the ubuntu kernel is selected in grub and edit the kernel line removing "quiet splash" and adding "nomodeset"

Just tried this now. Both of my displays still search for signal. It switches back and forth between digital and analog twice before going black.

Do you have any other suggestions?

Any questions I can answer that might help with troubleshooting?

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-03
Still not sure what to try. For now, I have a large partition with Ubuntu installed which is virtually useless.

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-04
Are there any other suggestions from anybody?

---

### Post by Chris1274 on 2010-09-04
Is the Radeon HD 5750 your only video card? There's no integrated gpu such as Intel or anything like that?

---

### Post by TimEnid on 2010-09-04
i have the same video card. i had the issue where when plugged in via hdmi, i was not getting the full resolution. dvi worked fine though. it probably has something to do with your monitor settings. on your monitor, select Auto Detect. if you finally get a picture, in a terminal, type in:
ATT CC
DISPLAY=:0 amdcccle
this will install the radeon ati catalyst control center, and should give you the ability to use the hdmi port. you just have to go in and mess with the settings.

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-05
> **Chris1274 said:**
> Is the Radeon HD 5750 your only video card? There's no integrated gpu such as Intel or anything like that?

Yeah. The motherboard **does not** have a integrated video card.

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-05
> **TimEnid said:**
> i have the same video card. i had the issue where when plugged in via hdmi, i was not getting the full resolution. dvi worked fine though. it probably has something to do with your monitor settings. on your monitor, select Auto Detect. if you finally get a picture, in a terminal, type in:
ATT CC
DISPLAY=:0 amdcccle
this will install the radeon ati catalyst control center, and should give you the ability to use the hdmi port. you just have to go in and mess with the settings.

I just set the monitor to auto-detect and had no change, it only switched itself back and forth between analog and digital as it always has. 
Alternately, I was running it on my tv via hdmi (now its on my monitor via dvi) at one point with the same symptoms happening on that display, except its response is just to display "searching for signals."

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-07
..bump?

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-09-07
try this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9819126&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9819126&postcount=10)

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-10
> **andrewthomas said:**
> try this [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9819126&postcount=10](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9819126&postcount=10)

So this seemed to fix the problem of the monitor having trouble finding a signal. It will display what should be the login screen now, but it's distorted as can possibly be. And you can make out some of the Ubuntu logos and whatnot, but thats about all.

[A Picture of the current display]("http://imgur.com/PQTYD")

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-12
Should I already have a xorg file, or do I need to create it? Would that even be the problem?

---

### Post by iiiears on 2010-09-12
Did adding xforcevesa to the grub boot kernel command line get you to a low grphics mode desktop to edit Xorrg.conf or the control center??

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-09-12
> **AdamMPkins said:**
> Should I already have a xorg file, or do I need to create it? Would that even be the problem?

By default, Lucid (10.04) does not have an Xorg file. However, if you create one, it will be used.

---

### Post by AdamMPkins on 2010-09-13
Thanks guys, it's all resolved.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-09-13
> **AdamMPkins said:**
> Thanks guys, it's all resolved.

How?

---

### Post by grimey on 2010-09-16
> **AdamMPkins said:**
> Thanks guys, it's all resolved.

Please explain how. I have the exact same problem with the exact same video card.

---

### Post by Foremancr on 2010-09-28
I am running Windows 7 and have a dual boot with Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit. Everything displays but it doesn't have the drivers.  I'm sure it is using the default setting:( for the card.  I found the drivers from ATI : [http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English)
But I can't get them to work.  Any suggestion????

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-09-28
> **Foremancr said:**
> I am running Windows 7 and have a dual boot with Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit. Everything displays but it doesn't have the drivers.  I'm sure it is using the default setting:( for the card.  I found the drivers from ATI : [http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx?type=2.4.1&product=2.4.1.3.42&lang=English)
But I can't get them to work.  Any suggestion????

Suggestion 1: start your own thread, don't hijack another thread.

Suggestion 2: version 10.10 is a beta (testing) version. You should not use it as your primary computing environment. It is there so people can find the bugs before its release in mid-October.

Suggestion 3: run Administration/Additional Drivers to find a video driver. It takes a couple of clicks to install, no messing around. Anything you download from a web site will probably cause you grief.  (Install programs from Administration/Synaptic, not by finding files on the web.)

---

### Post by sendblink23 on 2010-09-28
> **grimey said:**
> Please explain how. I have the exact same problem with the exact same video card.

I got another idea.. that works for me.. since I had the same issue with my 5770... it does take a while but works for me...

get an iso of 9.10... install it, and afterwards install(activate) the ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver(System > Administration > Hardware Drivers)... reboot and afterwards run the Upgrade (System > Administration > Update Manager) to 10.04 & and after its done.. reboot when asked and it would work perfectly fine 10.04

---

### Post by STEVERI371 on 2010-10-18
I have windows 7 and a hd7550. It worked for a year then recently quit working. I noticed it was a power issue. When I turned the cards power down it would run like a previous post in this forum mentioned when ubuntu was used to half power the video card. When I tried to use a better monitor, 1080x1920 the power would cut out and I could not run the card and the computer was unuseable and I thought it was a problem with the monitor. When I slowed the cpu by 3/4 and video card by 20% and installed a 17" 1024x1280 monitor it ran for a few days then would not run at all. 
 
Th hd5750 requires 40amps on the 12v rail per some internet test sites. The AMD site only says a 450 watt power supply is required. If you do not have a power supply capable of this you can not use your computer. I had integrated graphics so switched to that then today bought a hd5570 verse changing out the power supply which takes more time and costs similar.

---

