---
title: "8.04 CPU Usage"
date: 2008-08-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by carolinason on 2008-08-16
Anyone out there noticing that the processor is pegged for most any task?

I have a single core 2GHz machine and it has always served my purposes. But starting an application or waiting for a Web page to render shouldn't take 100% of the CPU.

The main culprit appears to be Firefox, but even the system monitor uses between 8 and 60% of the CPU.

I thought it might be visual effects, but have disabled all effects and there is no difference.

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-08-16
if firefox is too heavy you could try using epiphany.  I use it as my secondary web browser.  Also getting CPU information from system monitor isnt all that accurate.  It puts to much load on the CPU while it is measuring.  Instead you should open up terminal and type:```
top
```

---

### Post by carolinason on 2008-08-17
HMM the cpu monitor taking to many cycles. Kinda defeats the purpose.

Yeah, I now top and htop and they report the same thing.

I haven't used Ubuntu in a while and had been using Debian/XFce, which is quite efficient. I was just wondering if this was a common issue with 8.04 or something is up with my machine. I'm thinking 2GHz/2GB meets the specs, even though Ubuntu's web site does not indicate a required CPU speed.

---

### Post by waapwoop1 on 2008-08-17
if you notice this on flash pages it is a known problem.

non flash on my laptop is easy. flash pages run at 100% not just on loading, but on viewing, even just little ads run at 100%. I made this a smaller problem by insatlling flash 10 beta.

---

### Post by mike1234 on 2008-08-17
> **tamoneya said:**
> if firefox is too heavy you could try using epiphany.  I use it as my secondary web browser.  Also getting CPU information from system monitor isnt all that accurate.  It puts to much load on the CPU while it is measuring.  Instead you should open up terminal and type:```
top
```


 Top shows 11.6 % usage for Firefox 3.01. Not bad.

M.

---

### Post by carolinason on 2008-08-17
X, Metacity, Nautilus and Gnome panel are all using their fair share during activity. Sitting idle things are a bit calmer, but the CPU is always running about 8%.

Trying to figure out, how to limit getty to trim some more. I've stopped, bluetooth, apm, CPU freq and cups services.

---

