---
title: "11.10 64 bit - Gnome Shell: keyboard indicator in top and bottom panel?"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2011-10-19
Hello Ubuntu lovers!

I have a question regarding Gnome Shell. This is a behaviour I find slightly odd rather than distracting or disturbing: I have two keyboard layouts installed, German and English, so I automatically have a keyboard indicator showing up in my top panel. I like it there, too.

However, the same indicator (with a different icon) shows up in the bottom panel, where the other applications with their own status icons reside. I was wondering if there is a way to get it outta there - I don't need the same indicator in two places...

This is mostly out of curiosity, though, since it doesn't really bother me either. Awaiting your insights :-)

Thanks!
Peace.

---

### Post by crdlb on 2011-10-19
In upstream gnome-settings-daemon's keyboard plugin, a GtkStatusIcon is created using libgnomekbd. GNOME Shell blacklists that StatusIcon, since it is needed in fallback mode but not Shell.

Ubuntu has a patch that replaces the StatusIcon code with an AppIndicator, which has a StatusIcon fallback. The problem is that the StatusIcon made by libappindicator has a different WM_CLASS name. I guess the best solution would be for Ubuntu to make sure that their indicator patches to GNOME components are bypassed entirely outside of Unity.

This situation also causes fallback mode to get a layout switcher that doesn't display the current layout. I'm not sure if either of these bugs have been filed in launchpad.

---

### Post by gururise on 2011-10-20
Thanks for the info. While not critical, this bug is certainly annoying!

I've opened [BUG 87951]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/878951"), if this bug affects you, please indicate so on the bug report!

---

