---
title: "10.04 - NIS client can't authenticate valid NIS users"
date: 2010-10-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by niallporter on 2010-10-26
Hi all,

I use Ubuntu in my office NIS environment and I can't upgrade the whole network to LDAP right now so please don't suggest this.  I upgraded to 10.04 recently and reinstalled the NIS client and associated packages, among other things.

I have set up my /etc/nsswitch.conf file so that passwd, group and shadow all have "files nis", I'm bound to the correct NIS domain and I can do "ypcat -k passwd" or "ypcat -k hosts" just fine.

Problem is that I can't log on or su to any NIS user, I just get "authentication failure".  I've tried the same usernames and passwords on Red Hat NIS clients on the same domain and they work fine.

Any ideas?

Thanks in advance,
Niall

---

### Post by GsL9vBab on 2010-10-27
I am running into the same problem.  I've followed several threads making recommendations for older releases of NIS.  The NIS client works fine when I authenticate it to out Solaris NIS servers.  I am suspecting the problem is on the Ubuntu NIS server side, although the error message is too vague with which to diagnose the problem.

Peter

---

### Post by rihoward on 2011-07-27
I had the same issue. For me it was the type of passwords I was using didn't match the NIS server I had to install:
  apt-get install libpam-unix2

then modify the following files adding the lines:

in /etc/pam.d/common-account

account sufficient pam_unix2.so

/etc/pam.d/common-auth

auth sufficient pam_unix2.so nullok

/etc/pam.d/common-session

session sufficient pam_unix2.so

---

