---
title: "UUID causes me problems"
date: 2006-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by carolinason on 2006-10-14
This is not a tech support request or a bug, just feedback or vent depending... Not sure why this was placed in general help instead of feedback, my apologies.

UUID has no clear benefit. Exempli Gratia, Using gparted I join partition /dev/hda6 to /dev/hda5 essentially making it /dev/hda5. Same partition number, but a different UUID is generated by Ubuntu. When I am presented a maintenance prompt due to this 'error', so that I might repair this inconsistency there is no VI to edit fstab, ed is available, but my line editing skills are less than adequate. Even if I could edit fstab, how am I to generate a new UUID? Okay, I now know to use the original fstab nomenclature /dev/hda* or /dev/sda*. But, instead I'm instructed to crtl-d to escape the shell and continue booting the 'OS'.

If UUID is going to be implemented doesn't it need tools, so it's utility and benefits are clearly present and used? Perhaps they are yet to be written? Perhaps I need to research the fabulous manual!

---

### Post by carolinason on 2007-06-05
rant, rant rant....

---

### Post by jimbob on 2007-06-05
All you must do is enter the command [COLOR="Blue"]blkid[/COLOR] in a terminal window and it will show you the current UUID's along with the old style /dev/hdax, etc. for all HDDs on your system.

All you need do then is make your /etc/fstab and /boot/grub/menu.lst agree with it.

(By the way, I hate UUID's too but if you can't lick 'em, join 'em)
________________________________       
  If I can't be Mr. Root I won't play ...

[COLOR="Red"][SIZE="1"]*Registered Linux User #400396*[/SIZE][/COLOR]

... things should be done from the command line the way Nature intended ...

---

### Post by phidia on 2007-06-05
Thanks for that command jimbob. It's helpful to have. I wonder why the ubuntu devs chose to use UUID?

---

### Post by jimbob on 2007-06-05
I'm told that enterprise installations with hundreds of HDDs have problems with the old nomenclature because of duplication of device names, among other things.

Oh, well, that's progress I guess ...
________________________________       
  If I can't be Mr. Root I won't play ...

[COLOR="Red"][SIZE="1"]*Registered Linux User #400396*[/SIZE][/COLOR]

---

### Post by fragos on 2007-06-05
That would make sense but UUID should be an option. When installing dual boots of other Linux distros UUIDs make a real mess of things.  IMHO - Despite their enterprise value they add no value for a home desktop user and in fact are a hindrance.

---

