---
title: "10.04 kernel panic - will no longer mount"
date: 2011-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RutherfordTheBrave on 2011-01-14
I've been using Ubuntu for over a year now and despite various difficulties with hardware compatibility, etc. (ahem Dell), I've been overwhelmingly satisfied with Linux. I upgraded to 10.04 from 9.10 a few months ago, and had no problems until today.
Today I was working on a page in Firefox and Gnome froze up (this happens very rarely- but when it does the mouse cursor becomes a text highlight cursor and still moves, but nothing is responsive, so I need to do a hard power off. It usually happens when using a scrollbar of some type... its rare so I ignore it). So I turned off my laptop, turned it back on, and it just "hung" on the blinking cursor for a long time (I went to lunch and came back and it was still blinking...). So I had to hard power it off yet again. This time when I turned it back on, it can no longer mount the hard drive- and gives me some dump info followed by:

mount: mounting /dev on /root/dev failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /sys on /root/sys failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /proc on /root/proc failed: No such file or directory
Target filesystem doesn't have /sbin/init
No init found. Try passing init= bootarg

then I get the BusyBox (initramfs) prompt

I remember it saying "kernel panic" at one point- but it appears that message has stopped displaying... weird


Is there anything I can do at this point to recover my installation and/or files? This is my work laptop so getting a new laptop isn't as big an issue as recovering the information that is on the hard drive now. My coworker had a copy of the 10.10 installation ISO on his laptop, so I tried burning and booting off that but it just went to black screen, spun the CD for a long time, then did nothing. I'm going to try again with a different CD when I get home. Any help is appreciated. And if shopping for a new laptop is in the cards, I'll at least make sure it isn't a Dell this time...

---

### Post by topher-t-mill on 2011-01-14
possibly download Slax and burn to cd, this may help you look at the disk. If you can see the files then that at least is good. you can copy to another disk. More advanced users may tell you how gdedet on in other ways but that is how In have proceeded in the face of apparent disaster

---

### Post by RutherfordTheBrave on 2011-01-17
I downloaded Slax and got to a command prompt and was able to repair the problem with the partition. Thanks for the suggestion, topher :)

---

