---
title: "10.04, Gwibber and button layout problem."
date: 2010-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jamoncillo on 2010-05-04
gwibber won't start, compiz had no window decorator (fixed reloading emerald)

 my button layout is always on the right side, no matter where I place the ' :' in gconf-editor !! any help?

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-04
Post moved to it's own thread.

---

### Post by jamoncillo on 2010-05-06
ust for the record... I used the live cd and deleted everything but my personal files (pics, music, etc) including hidden files. INstalled a clean copy of lucid and now gibber works like a charm. however, I was tring to restore my installed programs with
```


sudo dpkg --set-selections /home/package.selections && apt-get dselect-upgrade

```
but it just won't work. any ideas??

---

### Post by jamoncillo on 2010-05-07
ok. I'll tag this as solved, but the only workaround was clean install. Also I was having keyboard issues. My screen would freeze at startup, tought everything kept working (I could see my programs opening and loading, I just couldn't make any I/O)

my mouse pinter could move, tought coulnd't click anything, and my keyboard was also death. needed to log in and out several times, and I thing the solution was to unplug my laptop form the AC power to get it back to normal, regarding that screen issue

---

### Post by jamoncillo on 2010-05-13
> **jamoncillo said:**
> ok. I'll tag this as solved, but the only workaround was clean install. Also I was having keyboard issues. My screen would freeze at startup, tought everything kept working (I could see my programs opening and loading, I just couldn't make any I/O)

my mouse pinter could move, tought coulnd't click anything, and my keyboard was also death. needed to log in and out several times, and I thing the solution was to unplug my laptop form the AC power to get it back to normal, regarding that screen issue


EDIT: the 'frozen' screen was a problem with deactivating the login sound
once i checked it again it was solved

---

