---
title: "./blender: error while loading shared libraries: libpython2.6.so.1.0"
date: 2012-08-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by clp32r on 2012-08-26
Hi,
I am having some trouble getting an old version of blender to run. I installed blender 2.49b-linux-glibc236-py26-i386. This one needs python 2.6 (hence the 'py26' in the name of the blender file). So I installed Python 2.6 (alnd also 2.5, 2.5.6, 2.6.7, 2.7 & 3.2) using pythonbrew. I run python 2.6 temporarily in the terminal before trying to execute the blender binary.
However when I run the executable I get: './blender: error while loading shared libraries: libpython2.6.so.1.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory.'
I also tried changing the pythonpath variable using:
'export PYTHONPATH=~/.pythonbrew/pythons/Python-2.6/lib/python2.6/config/libpython2.6.a'
But this didn't stop the error when I run the executable. Maybe the path isn't right. There isn't a file libpython2.6.so.1.0 in any of my pythonbrew installed versions of python. I also thought about installing libpython2.6 as I was told this might be the solution, but when I try and do this with synaptic, it tells me there are unresolvable dependency issues.
What should I do? I know it's possible because a friend did it., but I get this error ehen he didn't.
Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by Rexilion on 2012-08-26
Post the output of the following command please:

```
find ~/.pythonbrew/ -type f -iname libpython2.6.so\*
```

---

### Post by clp32r on 2012-08-27
There is no output. The only files that look similar are /.pythonbrew/pythons/Python2.6.7/lib/python2.6/lib/libpython2.6.a
Is this because the required libraries are not installed? I tried to install libpython2.6 by downloading it, and using the software manager to install it, but it said there were unresolvable dependency issues. Is it possible to install missing libraries using pythonbrew? I'm using ubuntu 12.04.

---

### Post by Futant on 2012-08-27
Why are you using an old version of Blender?

---

### Post by Rexilion on 2012-08-27
Pythonbrew is only a package 'index' as my quick googling indicates.

I think you just have to build python2.6 from source inside your home dir. You comfortable with that?

---

### Post by clp32r on 2012-08-28
Thanks for your replies.

I'm using an old version of blender because I am running an old (but very helpful) python script on it. And I think the new versions use their own custom python, so the script won't work anymore on them.

Just in case anyone should come across this, the fix is simply to copy the library libpython2.6.so.1.0 into usr/lib. Then blender 2.49b loaded up, without complaining about the missing library. Which is nice.

---

