---
title: "Video card help!!"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-10-30
I just updated to 8.10 and now my video is all messed up. Like the colors are set real low... how can I go back to an old driver?????????

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-10-30
It's like it's stuck in good old 16 bit color.

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-10-30
Upgrading to 8.10 has been like a kick in the jewels so far. (as all upgrade are) My video seems to be stuck in 16 bit color... how do you change it??? xorg.conf doesn't list color depth. I'm running it on an acer aspire 3000 laptop.

---

### Post by dmizer on 2008-10-30
Please see this wiki article: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config)

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-30
Threads merged :)

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-10-30
That didnt tell me anything I didnt already know... any other ideas? Thanks!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-30
> **raptormanad said:**
> That didnt tell me anything I didnt already know... any other ideas? Thanks!

Ok what is the model of the graphics card? Have you tried reinstalling the graphics driver?

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-10-30
it's an SIS M760GX... it worked great with 8.04... I added the line depth 24 for my xorg file, it didnt work. I added some other line and it made me run in 640x480 (but the color wasnt all effed up. How do I adjust the driver? What can I do?

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-31
> **raptormanad said:**
> it's an SIS M760GX... it worked great with 8.04... I added the line depth 24 for my xorg file, it didnt work. I added some other line and it made me run in 640x480 (but the color wasnt all effed up. How do I adjust the driver? What can I do?

You can try and use the xfix option by booting into recovery mode. You may also try and reconfigure your xorg from the terminal and then restart X
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```
I have limited experience with that graphics chipset.

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-10-31
Didn't work... bummer. Here's my xorg file if it helps:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-10-31
I can't believe an "upgrade" ruins my machine's video. Dpkg doesnt do sqwat... it asks about the keyboard more than the video. Everything is all grainy now... which sucks... guess I'll have to downgrade.

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2008-12-03
Bump!

---

