---
title: "10.10 very slow on wake from suspend CPU 100%"
date: 2010-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by anthonylane13 on 2010-11-30
I'm having a very strange problem. My computer runs really well when I first switch on, and usually I'll leave it on all day, and just suspend it when I'm not using it.
But since a couple of days ago, it's been playing up after waking from suspend. Everything slows to a crawl, and the system monitor shows the CPU working at 96-100% permanently, even when I'm not doing anything.

It's not like I even have many apps open. Generally I'll have a few tabs going on Opera, have Thunderbird open, and Gwibber. I'll open and close gedit and gimp as I need them, and that's about it. Having said that, this new version of Thunderbird seems very slow to me compared with the previous one.

Any help much appreciated.

Pentium IV 2.4GHz
Ram 1Gb

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-11-30
Mine did it every time with 10.10. Same problem and it took around 1 full minute to start trying to connect to a network. I can't explain the behavior, just confirming you are not alone. 10.04 did not have the issue so it's just another regression of some sort in 10.10.

---

### Post by anthonylane13 on 2010-11-30
Interesting. Mine connects to the network straight away, but just does everything else really slowly.

Anyway, after I posted this, I checked top in terminal, and saw (for the first time, never saw it before) that Opera was using 90+% of my CPU... So I closed all but one tab, and checked again, but still it was hogging all my resources.

I'm using firefox for the time being, and my CPU usage is down to 15-30% on average, and my system is performing as it was.

I can't understand it though - I didn't update opera knowingly - maybe an update came through package manager?

Anyway, I think I'm happy enough for now. Might uninstall opera and re-install manually and see what happens.

Good luck with your system TBABill :)

---

