---
title: ".kde backup"
date: 2006-03-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by damu on 2006-03-28
I have a laptop with Kubuntu Hoary that I want to upgrade to Dapper (Dapper seems to have in-built the drivers that would make my wireless dongle CRUSB10075 working...).

Sooo,first I want to backup my datas on an external HD, including the .kde folder.

When I try to copy it, I get en error message after it started to copy. I can't even erase the .kde folder which have been copied on the external HD.

Where do I get it wrong?

---

### Post by GeneralZod on 2006-03-28
What error message? What file system is your external HDD using? If it's NTFS, you won't be able to write to it.

---

### Post by damu on 2006-03-28
The external HD is fat32 and has been used with Kubuntu qnd Ubuntu for over a year without any problem and nealry everything is already backed up. The problem only occurs  when trying to copy the .kde file:
> Could not make folder /media/sda5/Damu Jan 06/.kde/share/apps/kabc/lock/home/damu/NEW/COMPILATION.

---

### Post by rattking on 2006-03-28
backing up to fat32 can cause you some permission problems because fat32 does not support them.. 
i would tar the files first, then extract them back to your new home dir.
tar -cpvf /media/sda5/kde-backup.tar .kde
or if you want to use gzip compression to reduce the size but increase the time it takes
tar -cpvzf /media/sda5/kde-backup.tar.gz .kde
hope that helps you out

---

### Post by damu on 2006-03-28
Thanks for ur help. It seems it worked even though , at the end I had the message > tar: Error exit delayed from previous errors

---

### Post by damu on 2006-03-31
Could you give me the command line to extract the "kde-backup.tar" to the home folder of my new install Kubuntu Dapper?

Thanks

---

### Post by rattking on 2006-03-31
cd /home/newhome
tar xvf /media/sda5/kde-backup.tar
or
tar zxvf /media/sda5/kde-backup.tar.gz

---

