---
title: "2.1 not working right in 12.04"
date: 2012-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by djpemberton on 2012-05-10
I tried this in another thread, but got zero response. I'll try to rephrase it here. I have Ubuntu 12.04 working fairly well on my new computer. I bought new Logitech 2.1 speakers. They work in Windows, but sound only comes out of one speaker and the sub in Ubuntu. In the "Sound" settings which shows the mode as "Analog Stereo Duplex" with the next setting being 4.0, 5.1, etc. It allows me to adjust the left-right balance, which only results in the only speaker that works being silenced. The "Fade" and "Subwoofer" sliders are grayed out.

Yes, I have tried to plug the speakers into different holes, but to no avail!

Is there anything that I can do to fix this?

---

### Post by benplanet on 2012-05-12
same problem with 2.1 system on ubuntu. Sub connected to black hole, speakers to green hole. 

Bump, if anyone knows of a solution.

---

### Post by djpemberton on 2012-05-13
Yes, it seems weird that nobody has any suggestions at all. I just realized that I actually only have one speaker that works with Ubuntu - sub is not working either.

---

### Post by djpemberton on 2012-05-14
Hmmmmmm. Wish I had a solution. It seems that it should be a relatively simple thing - considering some of the other things I have had problems with in the past. I love using Linux and Ubuntu, but this is certainly one of the types of annoyances that causes people to avoid trying. I really want to avoid having to buy another set of speakers, hoping that they will work better!

---

