---
title: "Yet another muppet who's deleted his xorg.conf backups"
date: 2008-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheFuzzy0ne on 2008-05-30
Hi everyone. I've seen this question asked before, but the answer doesn't work for me.

I was trying to play "America's Army", and the graphics weren't rendering properly. Everything looked fine, but the opening screen was black and white pin stripe (which it's not meant to be like), so I figured I had a problem somewhere in my xorg.conf. Don't ask me why but I didn't backup my xorg.conf file (I know I am a total muppet and I should be shot, hung and then drowned). I just figured that I could run dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, and start over, however, this isn't the case. For some reason I don't get the screen where I'm asked which display driver, and which resolutions to use, so now I am completely stumped.

I have a few options available to me now, as my display won't work like it used to. The resolution is 800x600, and none of my games work anymore.

The simplest (but most tedious) would be to reinstall Ubuntu from scratch. Is it possible to reinstall over my existing install without losing all of my data? The home directory is not in it's own partition, and everything has been thrown into a single partition. I don't have any spare space to copy my personal files over to.

Failing that, I could become a hardcore hacker and learn how to manually write my xorg.conf file, which is something I'd rather like to avoid if at all possible.

Ideally, I would like to find some kind of GUI front end for configuring my xorg.conf, or even getter yet, the script/application that the installer uses to set it up with the right data. Does anyone know if there is any way to natively solve this without having to install third party software? If not, does anyone know of a third party app which will allow me to configure my xorg.conf via a GUI?

I would appreciate any input anyone might have. Please feel free to laugh at me for being a muppet and deleting my backups...

---

### Post by Amerinidiot1231 on 2008-05-30
You might be able to use the 'nvidia-settings'  package

It will give a GUI interface for Editing Xorg.conf files.  Worked for me a while ago.

You can find it in Synaptic

---

### Post by TheFuzzy0ne on 2008-05-30
Sorry, it didn't work. I'm still missing the resolutions in my xorg.conf, although it has added some stuff which was needed.

I have an unbranded monitor, so I don't know what vertical refresh rate and horizontal ranges my monitor supports. It's unbranded and I have no manual, and sudo ddcprobe | grep monitorrange doesn't yield any results.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-30
Well, the dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg wizard doesn't ask for videocard information anymore; it autodetect that stuff upon start of X. However, it will never choose a proprietary driver, so if you have an Nvidia/ATI/other card with closed drivers, you'll need to make the proper changes yourself.

I gather that you're running 8.04.

Nvidia way would be to simply do this in a terminal.
```
$ sudo nvidia-xconfig -d 24 --allow-glx-with-composite --add-argb-glx-visuals --randr-rotation
```

My other system with an Intel integrated 865G video chipset has these sections in its xorg.conf.
```
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"intel"				# new, improved
#	Driver		"i810"				# "legacy driver" for compatibility purposes
	Option		"XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
	Option		"DRI" "true"
	Option		"AccelMethod" "EXA"     	# EXA new, buggy-ish - XAA old, proven
	Option		"ExaNoComposite" "false"	# "balls-achingly slow" without this. https://bugs.launchpad.net/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/177492
	Option		"MigrationHeuristic" "greedy"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	Option		"AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load            "dri"
	Load            "glx"
	Load            "dbe"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Group		"video"
	Mode		0660
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite" "enable"
EndSection
```
I don't have a machine with an ATI card.


See these links for some more tweakage.
ATI: [http://wiki.opencompositing.org/ATI_with_AIGLX](http://wiki.opencompositing.org/ATI_with_AIGLX)
Intel: [http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Hardware/Intel](http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Hardware/Intel)
Nvidia: [http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Hardware/NVIDIA](http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Hardware/NVIDIA)

---

### Post by TheFuzzy0ne on 2008-05-30
Thanks for your help. It's still being a real painus in the anus. Everything works with either no xorg.conf, or the standard one generated by dpkg-reconfure, (by works, I mean the resolution is still at 800x600). As soon as I run nvidia-xconfig and restart KDM, KDM starts whining about graphics drivers and shoves me straight into low-graphics mode.

I'm wondering if I can get away with installing Kubuntu onto a pen drive, and then stealing the xorg.conf from that. Failing that, I guess it would have to be a reinstall. Either way, it's seriously frustrating. I'd still be interested to know how Kubuntu figures out what to put into the xorg.conf during install time, and whether or not I can install over my existing installation without losing my personal files.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-30
What kind of videocard do you have, then?

---

### Post by rogblake on 2008-05-30
Boot up on the Ubuntu Live CD that you used for the installation. Copy the xorg.conf file that it builds over to your hard drive. This should give you a baseline working setup that you can then tweak.

---

