---
title: "9.04 Turns off Randomly"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wisd0m on 2009-05-03
I did a full a couple days ago with ext4. I am having some strange issues that I could use help with.

1.**[COLOR="Red"] The computer will turn off randomly.[/COLOR]** This has happened several times since the install and I have no idea what is causing it.

2. Icons no appearing on desktop. When I create or move a folder to the desktop, the icon will not show unless I navigate to the desktop in nautilus.

Of course the main issues is that my system shuts down whenever it feels like it. More info: I am running 9.04 32bit, Gnome, ext4. Did not have any issues with 8.10 on ext3. 

Thanks for any help you can provide.

*I could not find this issue anywhere else.*

---

### Post by abyrne on 2009-05-03
This is just one of the ugly bugs of ext4. You probably have to reformat and reinstall Ubuntu. But don't do it yet, get a second opinion.
:(

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-05-03
> This is just one of the ugly bugs of ext4. You probably have to reformat and reinstall Ubuntu.

Please provide some links to those problems or solutions would be even better.   I have not heard of these problems with ext4.

> But don't do it yet, get a second opinion.

Excellent piece of advice.

> 1.**[COLOR=Red] The computer will turn off randomly.[/COLOR]** This has happened several times since the install and I have no idea what is causing it.

2. Icons no appearing on desktop. When I create or move a folder to the desktop, the icon will not show unless I navigate to the desktop in nautilus.

Run the Live CD for a while and see if these problems reoccur.

---

### Post by abyrne on 2009-05-03
I can't give exact links (I read the bugs in a bunch of different places). Just Google "ext4 bugs" or "ext4 disadvantages". 

> I have not heard of these problems with ext4.

The bug reports did not exactly cite spontaneous shutdowns. They did, however, cite problems related to power management and other power related problems.

---

### Post by wisd0m on 2009-05-03
> **Sef said:**
> Run the Live CD for a while and see if these problems reoccur.

Live CD works fine.

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-05-04
>  	Quote:
 	 	 		 			 				 					Originally Posted by **Sef** 					[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7207830#post7207830") 				
 				*Run the Live CD for a while and see if these problems reoccur.*
 			 		 	 	 
Live CD works fine.

How long did you run the cd?


Three possibilities I can think of

1) Bad install

2) Bad harddrive.

3) Other

Not sure how to check a harddrive offhand.  Will ost it once I have the time and find something.

---

### Post by neanderslob on 2009-05-17
9.04 has been FANTASTIC on my 32 bit system and I haven't had any problems but on my 64 bit system I run into this shutdown bug.  Just to clarify my particular condition: it's never shut down while I'm actively using the computer; it will only do this when the computer's idle after a while (playing music or just running BOINC).  I have caught it in the act and it isn't like it suddenly loses power; it just very cleanly goes through the shutdown process and when I start it back up there's never any business about an unclean shutdown.  This lead me to think that it was a new power management default but when I went through the menu, no such setting was activated or even existed.  With regard to the problem being due to a lousy install, or poor hd, I didn't use an install cd but simply did a "sudo do-release-upgrade" and hadn't experienced the problem before.  It's not a huge inconvenience so far, it's just an annoyance.

---

