---
title: "20.04 gnome-clocks does not open."
date: 2020-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by userhv on 2020-04-22
Since yesterday's last update packages on the 21st, doesn’t gnome-clocks open anymore, anyone experiencing the same problem? It does not even open via a terminal.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-22
Lately you've been reporting lots of potentially graphical related glitches nobody else is having.
Please post you graphics card and which drivers you installed, if any.

---

### Post by userhv on 2020-04-22
> **CelticWarrior said:**
>  [COLOR=#000000]Lately you've been reporting lots of potentially graphical related glitches nobody else is having.[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Please post you graphics card and which drivers you installed, if any.[/COLOR] 
Video card integrated with the Intel processor. No changes beyond what is standard.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2020-04-22
> Video card integrated with the Intel processor. No changes beyond what is standard.
post back what
```
inxi -G
```
inxi should be installed if not an alternative command is:
```
sudo lshw -C display
```

This will give the exact gpu.

---

### Post by userhv on 2020-04-22
> **deadflowr said:**
> post back what
```
inxi -G
```
inxi should be installed if not an alternative command is:
```
sudo lshw -C display
```

This will give the exact gpu.

       descrição: VGA compatible controller
       produto: UHD Graphics 620
       fabricante: Intel Corporation
       ID físico: 2
       versão: 07
       largura: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capacidades: pciexpress msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuração: driver=i915 latency=0

---

