---
title: "10.04 - cannot get Java to work."
date: 2010-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jrela2000 on 2010-05-05
Please link me to or give me the step by step.

Need java for Ninjavideo.net (works fine on desktop with 9.10 installed), and limewire/frostwire.

thanks

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2010-05-05
You should be able to get it in the 'Applications'-'Ubuntu Software Center'

---

### Post by jrela2000 on 2010-05-06
Doesn't work.

sorry I didn't mention that

It installs, but when going to install Frostwire and Limewire, I get an error that I think means that it doesn't recognize it or the wrong version.

I also get an error when trying to install the Firefox plugin. Says it's an old version and immediately uninstalls itself.

---

### Post by CoreyB. on 2010-05-07
I have java installed in Lucid and am using the frostwire package from getdeb.net, works perfectly.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-05-07
It must be the Sun version of Java.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-05-07
Do you have Partners repository installed where they reside? Never had a problem with them.

---

### Post by CoreyB. on 2010-05-07
> **3rdalbum said:**
> It must be the Sun version of Java.

If this was directed towards me, I have the openjdk6 version. ;)

---

### Post by jrela2000 on 2010-05-07
> **CoreyB. said:**
> I have java installed in Lucid and am using the frostwire package from getdeb.net, works perfectly.

Several things on this site including the frostwire packages cannot be found.

> **garvinrick4 said:**
> Do you have Partners repository installed where they reside? Never had a problem with them.

Please tell me all about it.

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2010-05-07
To install the latest version of Java, please follow the instructions on this website: [[COLOR="Red"]**Easy Linux Tips Project: Java**[/COLOR]]("http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/java")

---

### Post by nanohead on 2010-05-07
Yep, same problem for me.   Not sure why its always such brain surgery, but if you do the following 

"In System - Administration - Software Sources - tab "Other Software", you can enable the ubuntu lucid partner repository (it's not enabled by default). This gives you access to certain software from companies (the partners) that have entered into an agreement with Canonical."

Then the proper Sun-Java runtime environment shows up.   Silly

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-05-07
> **jrela2000 said:**
> Several things on this site including the frostwire packages cannot be found.



Please tell me all about it.
The partners repository is in Software Sources under other software tab, check it and your sources.list will reload and add it. Java resides in there.

---

### Post by jrela2000 on 2010-05-09
I figured it out.

At least what worked for me

Goto the Ubuntu Software Center and install "Ubuntu Restricted Extras"

phew....

---

