---
title: ".rar Encrypted files"
date: 2010-11-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nova Scotia on 2010-11-11
I am trying to open a .rar file with encrypted pictures in it. I use the command line in terminal 

unrar --password (file name) (file destination) 

it gives me the option next, to put in a password

and finally, it says extracting (file name)                  failed

Is this because the password is wrong (im 99% sure it is right) or because the command is wrong or something?

---

### Post by shadow120 on 2010-11-12
try just right clicking on the file and extract here and see what happens.  it should work if the password is right.  but i have had .rar files that were corrupt and wouldnt extract so let us know what happens

---

### Post by Nova Scotia on 2010-11-13
> **shadow120 said:**
> try just right clicking on the file and extract here and see what happens.  it should work if the password is right.  but i have had .rar files that were corrupt and wouldnt extract so let us know what happens

I right clicked, then clicked "extract here"

The file showed, but when i open the folder, there is nothing in it.

When I use the command line, the list of picture in the folder is shown, but they say failed.

Thanks for the offer though!

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2010-11-14
Sounds like a corrupt archive.  If it was something you downloaded, try downloading it again.

---

### Post by Nova Scotia on 2010-11-14
> **mister_playboy said:**
> Sounds like a corrupt archive.  If it was something you downloaded, try downloading it again.

The file is from my removable hard drive, and I cannot download it again.

If it were corrupt that would be an utter disaster.

UPDATE! = I went back into the file that held the images, and clicked on the image, and voila!, opened a dialog box for me to put the password in and they opened!

---

### Post by Peanuts123 on 2010-12-26
I had the same problem so I downloaded something called ARK and used that to extract it. That helped me.

---

