---
title: "5.10 Authentication with Active Directory, anyone got this working?"
date: 2006-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cbtg2006 on 2006-05-24
HI Guys,

I've been trying to get my 5.10 boxes to authenticate to our Windows Server 2003 Active Directory.

I found this guide:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ActiveDirectoryHowto]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ActiveDirectoryHowto")

And followed it to the letter, but unfortunately failed miserably. I have however managed to get this working under SuSe and Fedora Core.

I belive the problem, from checking the auth.log is that there is no such library as pam_ldap.so as called by /etc/pam.d/common-auth and /etc/pam.d/common-account as part of this howto. This is an essential part of this authentication method, as I have seen from configuration of SuSe and Fedora.

So I tried 'apt-get install libpam-ldap'. This works and pam_ldap.so is installed as part of this process. However the authentication process still fails.

kinit and getent passwd both work as expected, thus communication with the ldap servers is working. It is just the authentication process and configuration of pam_ldap.so under Ubuntu I have not managed to suss.

Anyone who has got thois working, please tell me how!

Oh, just to add, I have also tried this with the latest Dappa beta and experienced the same results.

Many thanks,

Chris Bradford

---

### Post by zluka on 2006-05-24
try this:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ActiveDirectoryWinbindHowto]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ActiveDirectoryWinbindHowto")

used to work for me ;)

---

### Post by cbtg2006 on 2006-05-24
Hi zluka,

If possible I would rather get it working with LDAP and Kerberos as this method is more reliable, plus I can use SSL to encrypt LDAP traffic making it secure.

I have used winbind in tha past with Fedora Core 4 & 5. But I found the LDAP method to be faster and it worked 100%.

Thanks for your reply though,

---

