---
title: "12.04 freezing/crashing randomly on Intel Ivy Bridge CPU/ AsRock Z77 Pro4 Motherboard"
date: 2012-06-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mesopotamia on 2012-06-10
Hi all,

I would like to raise my concerns about randmon sympton which has been happening to my Ubuntu 12.04 OS.

I bought this PC a month or so ago which has the latest Z77 chipset (it's the Asrock Z77 Pro4) motherboard along with Intely Ivy Bridge 3570K processor.

I was advised in this [thread ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1995945")to use the latest kernel which is located [here]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.3.7-precise/") and this sympton reduced, howerver I'm still experiencing it but not as often as before.

The issue is that the operating system stops responding out of a sudden for no known reason. I have to power off the machine for me to be able to use it again. The mouse and keyboard have no effects at all when it freezes.

I was watching a movie last night and it was very smooth. After finishing the movie and as I was browsing Xbmc, it stopped responding. What I'm saying here is that it doesn't happen when there is load on the CPU/Video Card, it's just random.

I would like to find out what I can do to resolve this issue!

Is there any log files I can use to see what's causing it!

I'm impressed with Ubuntu and this is the only thing that's driving me crazy. I got my head around all the stuff I used to use on Windows and Mac, except this bit! I actually installed it on 4 of my PC and have been using it full time :)

Your help, advise and assistance are much appreciated.

Regards

---

### Post by Mesopotamia on 2012-06-11
Almost 100 viewers and no indication of what might be the problem :)

It looks like I'm here alone!!

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-06-11
Hi!, **Mesopotamia**,

You would be more likely to get a helpful response If you Posted more detailed  info.

For example:
 Is the CPU an i5 or an i7; is there a video card in addition, if so, which; and which driver is installed and active?

Does the problem occur regardless of how you log-in - Ubuntu 3d or 2d, Gnome or Classic?

Does it always happen after running for a lengthy period after booting or re-booting?

Are the cooling fans running allout before freezing?

Does the:  > "The mouse and keyboard have no effects at all when it freezes." include such short-cuts as: 'Ctrl+Alt+F1-6' , 'Ctrl+Alt+DEl' or 'Alt +PrtSc+ REIBUS'?

It would also help to Post:```
lspci -nnk | grep  -iA2 VGA
hwinfo --gfxcard
hwinfo --chipcard
```It would also be worth checking if the same occurs when you have booted from a LiveCD/USB. 

Edit: additionally, in view of similar Post by oslub, is there a loss of internet connection prior to failure?

Chao!,** bogan**.

---

### Post by Mesopotamia on 2012-06-12
Hi Bogan,

Thanks for your response.

I'm a new Linux user so most of these commands don't make any sense to me.

On the other side, I agree, I should have posted more details about the type of hardware I have.

PC Specs:

_Motherboard_: AsRock Pro4 with Z77 chipset
_CPU_: Intel i5 3750k
_Video Card_: Built-in using the HDMI port

To answer your question above:

> include such short-cuts as: 'Ctrl+Alt+F1-6' , 'Ctrl+Alt+DEl' or 'Alt +PrtSc+ REIBUS'?


Everything becomes irresponsive! No keyboard key combination works! I think this is referred to as Kernel Panic in Linux!!

> Does the problem occur regardless of how you log-in - Ubuntu 3d or 2d, Gnome or Classic?


I haven't tried logging in with 2D or GNOME. As a matter of fact I don't know how to login using GNOME!

> Does it always happen after running for a lengthy period after booting or re-booting?


It's random, but definitely not shortly after I start my PC.

> Are the cooling fans running allout before freezing?


I only have the CPU fan so I can't really tell!

lspci -nnk | grep  -iA2 VGA
```
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: Intel Corporation Ivy Bridge Graphics Controller [8086:0162] (rev 09)
	Subsystem: ASRock Incorporation Device [1849:0162]
	Kernel driver in use: i915
```


hwinfo --gfxcard
```
> hal.1: read hal dataprocess 11958: arguments to dbus_move_error() were incorrect, assertion "(dest) == NULL || !dbus_error_is_set ((dest))" failed in file ../../dbus/dbus-errors.c line 282.
This is normally a bug in some application using the D-Bus library.
libhal.c 3483 : Error unsubscribing to signals, error=The name org.freedesktop.Hal was not provided by any .service files
08: PCI 02.0: 0300 VGA compatible controller (VGA)              
  [Created at pci.318]
  Unique ID: _Znp.jjHn_gm8Jz5
  SysFS ID: /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0
  SysFS BusID: 0000:00:02.0
  Hardware Class: graphics card
  Model: "Intel VGA compatible controller"
  Vendor: pci 0x8086 "Intel Corporation"
  Device: pci 0x0162 
  SubVendor: pci 0x1849 "ASRock Incorporation"
  SubDevice: pci 0x0162 
  Revision: 0x09
  Driver: "i915"
  Driver Modules: "drm"
  Memory Range: 0xf7400000-0xf77fffff (rw,non-prefetchable)
  Memory Range: 0xe0000000-0xefffffff (ro,non-prefetchable)
  I/O Ports: 0xf000-0xf03f (rw)
  IRQ: 47 (3398112 events)
  Module Alias: "pci:v00008086d00000162sv00001849sd00000162bc03sc00i00"
  Driver Info #0:
    Driver Status: i915 is active
    Driver Activation Cmd: "modprobe i915"
  Config Status: cfg=new, avail=yes, need=no, active=unknown

Primary display adapter: #8

```


hwinfo --chipcard

```
> hal.1: read hal dataprocess 12027: arguments to dbus_move_error() were incorrect, assertion "(dest) == NULL || !dbus_error_is_set ((dest))" failed in file ../../dbus/dbus-errors.c line 282.
This is normally a bug in some application using the D-Bus library.
libhal.c 3483 : Error unsubscribing to signals, error=The name org.freedesktop.Hal was not provided by any .service files
```

What I noticed so far the following:

[LIST]
[*]When I have the PC connected to my AVR, the signal sent out to the receiver diconnects when Ubuntu boots up (i.e. I could see grub but afterward, the AVR loses the signal). If I VNC into the PC, I could see that it has booted fine but no signal goes to the AVR.

[*]If I boot up the PC without HDMI cable connected, then plug it in afterward, the PC gives me the full wanted resolution, but I think is that the video card which is causing the kernel panic. I have it running over the past 48 hours and it hasn't frozen because there is no monitor/AVR connected to it.
[/LIST]

I hope that I provided all the necessary information required to pin-point where my problem is.

Thank you all for your help.

Regards

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-06-12
Hi!, **Mesopotamia**,

Do you have the possibility to try with a different Monitor or TV screen?

Random  faults are always the most difficult to diagnose, I can only suggest  searching the log files for a clue, the problem is which log file to  search and what to look for.

The most likely thing would be a long list of a repeated  line, several screens long.

As  a start try syslog , Xorg.0.log, Xorg.1.log and dmesg all of which are in the /var/log/ folder.

For  example:```
 less /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep  -e '(EE)' -e '(WW)' -e  drm  # the '.0.' in 'Xorg.0.log' is a zero
```Press 'Space' to scroll  one screen down, 'q' to quit.

This will display all the lines in the file, which contain one of the examples and highlight them.

'EE'  & 'WW' will highlight any errors, 'drm' is just a guess at a  possible clue; replace them with anything you think might be worth  trying.

EG.```
 less /var/log/dmesg | grep -e lightdm  -ie  screen  # the 'i' makes Capital letters also accepted.
```Sorry that  it is a bit groping in the dark; perhaps someone more knowledgeable than  I will respond.

Chao!, **bogan.**

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-06-12
Did you try the newest kernel that I advised you to install last time?

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.4-precise/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.4-precise/)

download i386 for 32 bit

or download amd64 for 64bit

3.4 have more bug fixes than 3.3

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2012-06-12
I had similar problems (Asrock z77 Extreme-M, i7 3770k cpu) and did an upgrade to kernel 3.3.6-030306-generic. Problem solved for me

You might find this helpful [http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/05/how-to-install-linux-kernel-336-via-ppa.html](http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/05/how-to-install-linux-kernel-336-via-ppa.html)
note there are two methods one for 32 bit and one for 64 bit systems

---

### Post by cbonami on 2012-06-13
I installed 3.3.6 on my 64-bit machine suffering from the same annoying prob 2 - 3 times per day;
I will let you guys know if it fixed the problem at my side.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-06-13
> **cbonami said:**
> I installed 3.3.6 on my 64-bit machine suffering from the same annoying prob 2 - 3 times per day;
I will let you guys know if it fixed the problem at my side.


Install the new 3.4 kernel, there are probably more bug fixes for the Ivy bridge chipset

Ivy bridge is a new chip.

my above post is the like for precise 3.4 kernel

---

### Post by Mesopotamia on 2012-06-13
[B]Hi!, Mesopotamia,
[/B]

Hi bogan!

> Do you have the possibility to try with a different Monitor or TV screen?


It had the same symptoms where the random freezes occur. The only advantage of using a monitor though, I was able to see it booting even after the grub stage.


> As  a start try syslog , Xorg.0.log, Xorg.1.log and dmesg all of which are in the /var/log/ folder.

For  example:```
 less /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep  -e '(EE)' -e '(WW)' -e  drm  # the '.0.' in 'Xorg.0.log' is a zero
```Press 'Space' to scroll  one screen down, 'q' to quit.

This will display all the lines in the file, which contain one of the examples and highlight them.

'EE'  & 'WW' will highlight any errors, 'drm' is just a guess at a  possible clue; replace them with anything you think might be worth  trying.

I will do that over the weekend. Thanks :)

---

### Post by Mesopotamia on 2012-06-13
> **idoitprone said:**
> Did you try the newest kernel that I advised you to install last time?

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.4-precise/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v3.4-precise/)

download i386 for 32 bit

or download amd64 for 64bit

3.4 have more bug fixes than 3.3

I just updated the kernel into the 3.4, but I won't be able to test it until the weekend.

As I mentioned before, the machine runs fine when there is no monitor/projector/AVR connected to it.

On a side note: How do I uninstall the old kerners which I had installed previously? I  know it's the:
```
sudo apt-get remove xxxxx

```
But I could see that there is the 3.2.x.x kernel which I'm afraid that if I install, it may corrupt the OS.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-06-14
> **Mesopotamia said:**
> I just updated the kernel into the 3.4, but I won't be able to test it until the weekend.

As I mentioned before, the machine runs fine when there is no monitor/projector/AVR connected to it.

On a side note: How do I uninstall the old kerners which I had installed previously? I  know it's the:
```
sudo apt-get remove xxxxx

```But I could see that there is the 3.2.x.x kernel which I'm afraid that if I install, it may corrupt the OS.

if i were you, i would use the synaptic package manger to uninstall old kernels. You have to specify the version number on command line which is a pain

```
sudo apt-get install synaptic
```

to run

```
sudo synaptic
```

---

### Post by Mesopotamia on 2012-06-17
> **idoitprone said:**
> if i were you, i would use the synaptic package manger to uninstall old kernels. You have to specify the version number on command line which is a pain

```
sudo apt-get install synaptic
```

to run

```
sudo synaptic
```

Yeah that sounds good! I assume 'synaptic' the similar to 'Add/Remove Programs' in the Control Panel of Windows!

On a side note, it looks like that Kernel 3.4 has eliminated the weird symptom where the signal is disconnected from the AVR during the booting process! As for the other issue (i.e freezing issue), I only played one movie on it and it didn't freeze. I need more time to test it thoroughly, but all seems to be good now :)

Thanks everybody for the great support.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-06-17
> **Mesopotamia said:**
> Yeah that sounds good! I assume 'synaptic' the similar to 'Add/Remove Programs' in the Control Panel of Windows!

On a side note, it looks like that Kernel 3.4 has eliminated the weird symptom where the signal is disconnected from the AVR during the booting process! As for the other issue (i.e freezing issue), I only played one movie on it and it didn't freeze. I need more time to test it thoroughly, but all seems to be good now :)

Thanks everybody for the great support.

if i were you. I would upgrade the kernel when version 3.5 is release. ivy bridge support is not quite there yet

---

### Post by Mesopotamia on 2012-06-17
No worries :)

Thanks

---

### Post by Rebelli0us on 2012-07-02
> **SuperFreak said:**
> I had similar problems (Asrock z77 Extreme-M, i7 3770k cpu) and did an upgrade to kernel 3.3.6-030306-generic. Problem solved for me

You might find this helpful [http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/05/how-to-install-linux-kernel-336-via-ppa.html](http://www.upubuntu.com/2012/05/how-to-install-linux-kernel-336-via-ppa.html)
note there are two methods one for 32 bit and one for 64 bit systems

Thank you for the link.

I have a Gigabyte **Z77**X-UD5H that randomly freezes in Linux but not in Windows. I just installed 3.3.6 (x86_64) and will report later if problem is fixed.

I wonder if I can use this PPA to install the latest kernel in my ubuntu 10.10 Maverick?

---

### Post by Rebelli0us on 2012-07-13
> **Rebelli0us said:**
> Thank you for the link.

I have a Gigabyte **Z77**X-UD5H that randomly freezes in Linux but not in Windows. I just installed 3.3.6 (x86_64) and will report later if problem is fixed.

I wonder if I can use this PPA to install the latest kernel in my ubuntu 10.10 Maverick?

Good news, kernel 3.3.6 fixes the problem. Well done Linus!

---

