---
title: "9.10 skype segmentation fault"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gorlist on 2009-11-01
Hi!  installed a fresh copy of ubuntu 9.10 tonight, followed by the latest skype (2.1xx?) from their website. Was having some problems with mic input so decided todo a complete removal through the package manager, then installed the slightly older revision. 

As it made no difference, removed (then ran ubuntu janitor to remove the older libs), and reinstalled the latest skype. However! this time it appears briefly on the desktop and closes. If I run through a terminal one line appears:

"segmentation fault" 

Any suggestions? ive done a search but nothing specific. 

Best Regards,

---

### Post by Gorlist on 2009-11-01
Turns out the segmentation fault was caused by having the wrong audio output selected... :)

---

### Post by smontano7 on 2010-01-01
> **Gorlist said:**
> Turns out the segmentation fault was caused by having the wrong audio output selected... :)
Hi Gorlist,
I'm getting the segmentation fault too and encouraged by your fix with the audio output selected.  Would you tell me though, did you change your audio output in the Skype options or in your Ubuntu Sound Preferences, and if so, exactly how you did it?  I barely can't get this to work.  Thanks!!

---

### Post by Gorlist on 2010-01-02
Im afraid its been a while and reinstalled since, however I think it would have been on the ubuntu output as Skype wasn't loading for long enough to modify. 

As for the original mic problem is turns out to be a ubuntu bug, to get it working you have to mute/unmute, adjust the input volume and sometimes even change input to mic2/line-in then back to mic1.

Good luck.

---

