---
title: "Batch add users from command line"
date: 2006-02-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tasu on 2006-02-18
Hi,
I'm trying to write down a script to batch add users that have to access to /var/www directory via ftp, I found, googlig around a bash script from an edubuntu user, but it is not working, here is the modified (by me) portion (that tell's me that the salt is not ok, too short, must be 8 chars), but it seems that the salt generation for mkpasswd is different in ubuntu/kubuntu from edubuntu's one (ora at least from the one I found in this script), so the question is:

Which is the SALT param I have to use?

Another question... is this script ok? I'm quite new to bash scripting, so I'm open to all improvements...

#!/bin/bash

while [ 0 ]; do
    read LINE
    USER=`echo $LINE | cut -f 1 -d ,`
    PWD=`echo $LINE | cut -f 2 -d ,`

    if [ x"$USER" == x ]; then
        break;
    fi

# Generate password
    CHARS="qwertyuiopasdfghjklzxcvbnmQWERTYUIOPASDFGHJKLZXCVBNM1234567890"
    SALT=""
    for I in seq 8; do
        SALT=${SALT}${CHARS:$((RANDOM % ${#CHARS})):1}
    done

# Create user
	echo "Adding user '$USER' '$PWD' '$SALT'"
	PASS=$(mkpasswd --salt=$SALT --hash=md5 $PWD)
	useradd -s /bin/false -d /var/www -g www-data -p $PASS $USER
done

Thank you!

---

### Post by knalle on 2006-02-18
read some where that md5 is very picky about its quotes, try double quoting the salt, and set a salt because if you don't set a salt in md5 it will generate one for you.

---

### Post by Tasu on 2006-02-18
Solution found, thanx knalle for your help, but the problem was another... I just had to change the shell part of the useradd command, vsftpd don't accept connections from users with a false shell (no shell), I just changed that to /bin/sh and vsftpd authenticated that user! ^_^

---

### Post by jakedh on 2006-08-01
Here's something fancy. it requires the apg package...
password=$(apg -x8 -n1)
crypword="`echo $password| openssl passwd -1 -stdin`"
useradd --comment "$fullname" --create-home --groups $groups -p $crypword $username &> /dev/null
#save or send $password

Check out my thread if you are still playing around with batch user scripts:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224761]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224761")

---

### Post by itsalmostreal on 2007-06-20
i've been attempting to do this with php, though i have a problem. using the exec() function i can execute a shell command that is generated by php, and run by the root user (added www-data to the sudoers with the NOPASSWD option).

the problem i've run into is generating the encrypted password for the "-p" part of the command.

here is a section of code. the fourth line is the one in question, im not sure i can use the crypt() function to do this properly. do i need to obtain the salt from somwhere?

$name = $user_info['full_name'];
$username = strtolower(str_replace(" ", "_", $name));
$password = substr(md5($username), 0, 8)); <-- this is actually an "8" and a ")"
$enc_password = crypt($password, "???");

	$exec = "sudo useradd -m -c \"".$name."\" -p ".$enc_password." ".$username;
	$shell = exec($exec);

print 'username: '.$username."<br>";
print 'password: '.$password."<br>";

thanks!

---

