---
title: "9.10 appearance changed"
date: 2010-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lordbah on 2010-02-03
I've had 9.10 installed some time now. Suddenly on Tuesday the appearance of my system changed. The NetworkManager Applet icon changed from looking like an empty network port to looking like two computer monitors. The Firefox tab label backgrounds turned a slightly different shade of gray. The trash can on the desktop turned blue. Upper right corner is a green running man where I believe there used to be a red icon - maybe a power switch? The appearance of all programs kind of reminds me of the old Motif look, except it's not that terrible black-on-blue.

Haven't tried logging out yet, will do so when it's convenient.

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-02-03
Hi.
It sounds like the Gnome theme has gotten mixed up somehow. I have had that once or twice, but not for a long time now. I don't know what causes it. It should "reset" itself if you log out and in or reboot, I think. If it is still strange after that, of if it keeps messing up regularly, you should look into why.

---

### Post by lordbah on 2010-02-04
Log out/in did fix it. I'm still academically curious about exactly what happened. Since the effect vanished, was it some process which got killed?

---

### Post by lordbah on 2010-04-21
This just happened again, some time between 3am and 6:30am. Also every running program is now using a different font than it was before. Freaky how everything would change in the middle of the night with no provocation. About 6pm the night before I did let Update Manager do a bunch of ffmpeg-related updates but I can't see how that would be relevant. I expect logging out will fix it again, but this shouldn't happen in the first place.

---

