---
title: "limited Internet access after system restore"
date: 2017-01-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-01-29
Good day,

I am using Kubuntu 14.04.  A recent system upgrade messed up my audio configuration.  Unable to rollback from said upgrade, I restored from a recent Clonzilla image.

For reasons unknown, I can not get on the Internet.  Yet, for a tablet and a Windows system connected via the same modem those devices have Internet access.  The tablet is the only device that uses a wireless connection.

It seems the challenge is a domain name server issue for I see messages in the lower left corner of any browser "Looking up ...." Error pages that come up are browser defaults of "Server not found", never a 404 error generated by a site.

My modem is a SmartRG.  My ISP has been of little assistance for they do not support Linux.  

Thinking this is some kind of port assignment conflict, I have shut down and disconnected all other devices and then powered off and disconnected the modem/router for half-an-hour, hoping to force a port reassignment when I turn it back on.  No joy there, either.  The port remains unchanged at 192.168.1.4.  I am using DHCP not fixed IP addresses.  

Help would be much appreciated

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-01-29
> **dwlamb said:**
> It seems the challenge is a domain name server issue 
Let's check that.  Can you access sites by IP address?  Test -
```
http://82.103.134.102/
```
(that's the IP address for noscript.net - if it works you should see "Sciò")

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-01-30
Thank you for the reply, Halogen2,

No, I am unable to connect to a site using IP addresses only.  I tried the same on my tablet and did see "Sciò".

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-01-31
What shows when you right-click Network Manager > Connection Information?

Can you please run the [wireless-info script]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=370108") and post the contents of the generated .txt file?

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-01-31
Connection is ethical wired connection 1

Is there any point to running the info script if the Internet connection is hardwired?

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-01-31
> **dwlamb said:**
> Connection is ethical wired connection 1
Sorry, I don't understand what you mean there.  Can you please post a screenshot of the Connection Information window?

> Is there any point to running the info script if the Internet connection is hardwired?
Yes.  Much of the information it gathers would pertain to any type of network connection.

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2017-01-31
Methinks the OP is meaning "ethernet" wired connection 1.

Have you tried deleting the existing SSID profile connection, and then creating a new one via the Network Manager?

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-02-01
Pardon the misinformation earlier about my connection

From Hidden icons -> Network Management -> right click:

```

eth0 - Wired Ethernet 
Connected to Wired connection 1

```

The results of the connection information script are posted to Ubuntu Pastebin @ [https://paste.ubuntu.com/23906509/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/23906509/).

Thank you for your patience and help.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-02-01
> ##### resolv.conf #######################

search expressvpn
nameserver 10.207.0.1
Are you using a VPN?

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-02-01
> **Geoffrey_Arndt said:**
> Have you tried deleting the existing SSID profile connection, and then creating a new one via the Network Manager?

How do I do that?  Never done one before.

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-02-01
> **halogen2 said:**
> Are you using a VPN?

I normally use one, yes.  It is only loaded by software via the command line, not loaded by default on start-up.

I assumed it does not leave  any permanent settings since it is only a command line utility I load manually.  Plus with all the unplugging and swapping of cables I have done to troubleshoot the issue, I figured it does not reside permanently in settings.

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-02-01
I removed my VPN client using sudo apt-get remove --purge <software> to no avail. I still can't access the web.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-02-01
What dose this show:
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
Post back the return.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-02-01
> **1fallen said:**
> What dose this show:
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```
Post back the return.
These too -
```
ls -l /etc/resolv.conf
ls -la /run/resolvconf
```

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-02-01
ls -l yields:
```

-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 66 Dec 13 05:06 /etc/resolv.conf

```

Contents of resolv.conf are:
```

# Generated by expressvpn
search expressvpn
nameserver 10.207.0.1

```

The latter dump would be  the culprit as to why I can not connect now given I removed expressvpn and rebooted.  What should that conf be?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-02-01
> **dwlamb said:**
> ls -l yields:
```

-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 66 Dec 13 05:06 /etc/resolv.conf

```

Contents of resolv.conf are:
```

# Generated by expressvpn
search expressvpn
nameserver 10.207.0.1

```

The latter dump would be  the culprit as to why I can not connect now given I removed expressvpn and rebooted.  What should that conf be?
Yep your right!
In a terminal do:
 ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf
```
 and reboot.

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-02-01
Sorry.  I misread some of your post halogen2.

ls -l /etc/resolv.conf yields:
```

-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 66 Dec 13 05:06 /etc/resolv.conf 

```


ls -la /run/resolvconf yields:
```

total 4
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root 100 Feb  1 16:01 .
drwxr-xr-x 28 root root 940 Feb  1 16:03 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   0 Feb  1 16:01 enable-updates
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root  60 Feb  1 16:01 interface
-rw-r--r--  1 root root 184 Feb  1 16:01 resolv.conf

```

The contents of /run/resolvconf are:
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
search Home

```

---

### Post by dwlamb on 2017-02-01
**JOY! **It works now.  I just hope re-installing the client for the vpn doesn't mess things up.

Thank you very much halogen2 and others that contributed

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-02-01
If it dose again.... you will now know how to fix it!:)

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-02-01
You're welcome! :KS

For what it's worth, you're not the only one having issues with that VPN - [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2334644]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2334644")

---

