---
title: "Wireless help"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TLWheidi on 2010-04-22
I'm a relatively new UBUNTU user and have a home-built computer that works well on the internet.  Now I'd like to use it as a wireless computer.   I have a Linksys router to use but it requires me to use a disk with only .EXE software.     
How can I can I make this unit work in wireless mode????
[email]TWAMPLER@CAROLINA.RR.COM[/email]

---

### Post by linden940 on 2010-04-22
well...this is what i have had to do....

connect TO the router with the computer...go into Vbox and have windows installed on that....and run the disk from there to the router....or use someone else's computer....you'll only need it for a few mins..

---

### Post by eMJayy on 2010-04-23
> **TLWheidi said:**
> I'm a relatively new UBUNTU user and have a home-built computer that works well on the internet.  Now I'd like to use it as a wireless computer.   I have a Linksys router to use but it requires me to use a disk with only .EXE software.     
How can I can I make this unit work in wireless mode????
[email]TWAMPLER@CAROLINA.RR.COM[/email]

I'm assuming that you have a PCI wireless card for your home-built desktop computer to allow it to go wireless. 

I'm also assuming that the software on the disc you referred to is actually a router management program called LELA (Linksys EasyLink Advisor), which Linksys provided with the router for easy setup and monitoring of the router. 

If that's the case, _you don't actually need the provided software to configure the router._ You can actually configure it using any ordinary web browser. 

With the computer plugged into a router port, open Firefox or any browser on your PC, type **192.168.1.1** in the browser address bar and hit enter. A prompt will appear asking for a user name and password. 

If the router has never been configured before, the default username will be a blank space (in other words, you type nothing there) and the password will be *admin*. If you've previously configured the router, you'll have to either remember the username and password you had set before (if you changed it from the default), or you'll have to reset the router back to factory default settings (*To set the router back to default settings, you hold down the router's reset button for at least 30 seconds*). 

A webpage interface generated by the router will appear in the browser window if the correct username and password combo is entered. It will allow you to completely configure the router for wireless.

---

