---
title: "Create and save files in the terminal?"
date: 2018-01-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andysharpie on 2018-01-23
I'm wondering if there is a way to create and save files using the command line. Obviously, I could open Libre from the terminal, but I was wondering if I could also create a file in the terminal.

Andy

---

### Post by raleigh3 on 2018-01-23
This is one of several ways.

echo A text file > file.txt

or

 ****

  Create a file using cat
$ cat > myfile.txt

  Now, just type whatever you want in the file:
  Hello World!
  CTRL-D to save and exit

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2018-01-23
nano is a command line text editor, it can be used to create and edit text files just like gedit

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-01-23
To create a file you can use the touch command in the directory in which you want to create the file.  The command below will create 3 files including one .pdf and one.odt.

```
touch file.txt file.pdf file.odt
```

---

### Post by andysharpie on 2018-01-23
> touch file.txt file.pdf file.odt

Is it possible to simply create any one of these formats individually?

---

### Post by raleigh3 on 2018-01-23
Yes.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2018-01-23
> **andysharpie said:**
> Is it possible to simply create any one of these formats individually?

You want to create files or formats?

---

### Post by andysharpie on 2018-01-23
I just wanted to create files, but noticed that they were all in different formats.
I know these are amateur questions, but I'm building my knowledge of Linux from the ground up right now. I've tried all the commands you guys recommended, just to get the hang of them. Thanks for all the help. :)

Andy

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2018-01-23
> **andysharpie said:**
> I just wanted to create files, but noticed that they were all in different formats.
I know these are amateur questions, but I'm building my knowledge of Linux from the ground up right now. I've tried all the commands you guys recommended, just to get the hang of them. Thanks for all the help. :)

Andy

In this respect, Linux is no different than Windows or Mac. Mostly, files are generated by programs, not by users. So, while you can certainly use commands such as *touch* to create files, they may not have the same format as files created by the parent program.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2018-01-24
You can also create a file by copying from a template:```
cp ~/Templates/mytemplate newfile.xyz
```
The terminal doesn't know about file formats. The file manager doesn't really either. The terminal just considers every file a sequence of bytes that's only meaningful to the application designed to handle that file format. There are however tricks that the terminal (well, not really the terminal, but at least a file manager) can use to guess which application you want to use to open a file.

All files are created by programs (except the really far-fetched exceptions). If you run```
echo "Hello world!" >file.txt
```the file "file.txt" is created by bash, which is the program running in the terminal handling the output redirect. If you run```
touch a.odf b.pdf c.zolk
```touch will create 3 files, all of which will be empty (as in, zero bytes). touch doesn't know what a .odf, a .pdf or a .zolk file looks like. In case of a .zolk file, no application knows as it's not a standard extension.

If you want to create a file of a particular format without any meaningful contents, either copy a template or open an application designed for those files and have it save an empty document.

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-01-24
> Is it possible to simply create any one of these formats individually? 				

That was just an example of using the touch command to create multiple files, obviously you can do them individually.  If you create an .odt file, it should open in Libre Office.  If you create a .pdf file it should open with your PDF editor if you are using your GUI file manager.  If you are entering information into the file from a terminal, this doesn't matter obviously and you can do that with the echo command as explained above.

---

