---
title: "10.04  freezes before login"
date: 2010-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by napolperro on 2010-11-14
Hello,I've searched a while and haven't found anything that works for my problem, so I decided to ask for help.

Today I turned on my netbook as usual, and was greeted by a black screen, no sounds, no colors, just black. Tried rebooting into another kernel and also to recovery mode, to no avail. It's always the same black screen.

It reboots with Alt-sysrq-b, and ctr-alt-del; but that's all it does. Didn't respond to any other command that I tried.

I also went into GRUB menu and erased the 'splash' thing from the text, and also tried going to rescue mode, the first one was exactly the same as before; the latter said that the command didn't exist.

Any help would be greatly appreciated. For the record my netbook is an Acer AspireOne 751h, and I'm running Ubuntu 10.04.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-11-14
Hi,
what graphics card do you have installed, have you recently updated/upgraded the installation, has this kind of thing happened before?

Thanks.

---

### Post by mennowo on 2010-12-12
Hi,

I have this exact same problem. It seems to be getting worse: first was only sometimes, and the screen showed a few lines of stange pixels in the top of the screen, that changed color when pressing a key. Now, no reaction at all, also no pixels.

When it does work, if I get past this point and to the login screen, all is fine.

Running: Ubuntu Studio 10.04 64 bit, with ATI HD4850 graphics card, using drivers provided by ATI.

Any ideas appreciated!

Menno.

---

