---
title: "9.04 stinks like a twinkie from a donkey's A**"
date: 2009-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by evilbuntu on 2009-08-07
I dont know what is up with this distribution.

I had 8.04 which worked flawlessly for me. then i "BRIEFLY" upgraded to 8.10 when it came out and decided it was too buggy for me and went back down one to 04.

so i figured that 9.04 would have HAD to fix tings but MAN am i wrong.

since installing, my Samba has continuously flaked in and out, my flash is now COMPLETELY dead and my sound drivers have to be restarted at least once a day.

is it me???? like did i piss this thing off? is it my machine..... how the heck can i tell? should i just do a clean install and see if that helps? but then i have to set everything back up again, plus i have a dual boot and blah blah blah..... i mean c'mon man. been playing with "7" though and i am completely thinking of dropping linux and going with that instead.

also might there be a more stable version of linux out there?

---

### Post by megamania on 2009-08-07
I suggest a clean-install. 

If things go wrong all the same, at least you will know it's not a corrupted install.

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-08-07
> **evilbuntu said:**
> is it me???? like did i piss this thing off?

Quite obviously you did, starting with your nick, :)

> also might there be a more stable version of linux out there?

9.10 is out one week after windows7. It may well be stable for you, it might not. 

Either way, it is pretty easy to create an image of your drive prior to screwing it up, these days there is no excuse for messing up your computer without having the means to get back to where you started within a few minutes, so that you do not have to "set everything back up again"

---

### Post by fennec_fox on 2009-08-07
I recommend keeping 8.04 until 9.10 comes out. I'd still give 9.10 a couple months to work everything out. 8.10 worked good for me, 9.04 I've heard is buggy. I believe 9.10 is supposed to have a lot of the bugs worked out. I know there's the 100 paper cuts project that is supposed to fix a lot of little bugs for 9.10.

8.04 is lts so it should stay stable and up to date. I'd hold onto that for a little while more while they are concentrating on fixing the bugs.

---

### Post by snek on 2009-08-07
Never upgrade any OS I say.. Always do clean installs, otherwise you're left with orphaned files and other leftovers. Best bet is to just backup your /etc /boot and /home dirs to another drive/usb stick and slowly move the files back you think you need after you do the clean install.

Personally I am running Jaunty on an iMac. If there's any hardware I did NOT expect to work properly it was this machine. I had a lot of problems with Hardy & Intrepid on this machine but Jaunty is flawless now. Very happy with it!

---

### Post by Mighty_Joe on 2009-08-07
> **snek said:**
> Never upgrade any OS I say.. Always do clean installs, otherwise you're left with orphaned files and other leftovers. 

Not to mention there's no way back if the upgrade screws things up (I got burned once!).
@evilbuntu - try searching the forums, [known bugs]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1145967") and [Launchpad]("https://launchpad.net/") for people with the same hardware or same behavior.  If you can't find anything like what you are seeing, [file a bug]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1011078").  Sometimes, just the routine of tracking down the root cause of a bug will produce a solution.
Badmouthing the distro and threatening to move to Windows is no way to get help.

---

### Post by evilbuntu on 2009-08-07
> **Mighty_Joe said:**
> 
Badmouthing the distro and threatening to move to Windows is no way to get help.

i was joking more than i was seriously insulting the OS.

but anyway the other guy had a good point of imaging my drive then doing a clean install.

anyone know a good sector by sector free drive imaging software.

i have a dual boot i would really like to salvage along as well.

thanks all

"fingers crossed on 9.10"

---

### Post by decoherence on 2009-08-07
> **evilbuntu said:**
> anyone know a good sector by sector free drive imaging software.


[Clonezilla]("http://clonezilla.org/") does it all

---

### Post by hfoto on 2009-08-07
just curious, if 8.04 (lts) worked flawlessly, why move to another interim release? if it was just to experiment, why not keep 8.04 and use the live cd, or perhaps give the new release its own partition?
 
the old "if it ain't broke don't fix it" axiom seems to be well supported.

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-08-07
> **hfoto said:**
> just curious, if 8.04 (lts) worked flawlessly, why move to another interim release?

I have never really understood this view, although many espouse it.

It sounds sensible enough, if it aint broke, ect, but I would imagine most would want the latest and greatest and be rightly cheesed off if it didn't do the business for them.

The only caveat being, that it is crazy not to have an insurance policy in the form of a full backup to get back to where you started in the event of disaster.

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-08-07
> **hfoto said:**
> just curious, if 8.04 (lts) worked flawlessly, why move to another interim release? if it was just to experiment, why not keep 8.04 and use the live cd, or perhaps give the new release its own partition?
 
the old "if it ain't broke don't fix it" axiom seems to be well supported.

I run 9.10 now, on a system that had 8.04 (till a week ago). Sometimes you're curiosity gets the better of you ;)

---

### Post by martinbaselier on 2009-08-07
Updates do not alway mean improvements.

---

### Post by Vhann on 2009-08-07
> **hfoto said:**
> just curious, if 8.04 (lts) worked flawlessly, why move to another interim release? if it was just to experiment, why not keep 8.04 and use the live cd, or perhaps give the new release its own partition?
 
the old "if it ain't broke don't fix it" axiom seems to be well supported.

Library upgrades can be a good reason. In my case, in order to build Wine with a hack so my brother could host a Warcraft III game, I needed versions of some libraries (notably libgnutls) only Jaunty had in its repos.

But then, maybe it would have been possible to use those packages from a Jaunty repo to install to an Hardy install, but even on the Ubuntu mailing list, people don't seem knowledgeable about Ubuntu's internals, so I dist-upgraded.

Regards,
Vhann

---

### Post by edantes on 2009-08-07
> **howefield said:**
> 
9.10 is out one week after windows7.


Which makes 9.04 ...

**[COLOR="DeepSkyBlue"]The UBUNTU Vista!!!!![/COLOR]**

For me Jaunty was also a disaster, in a way that challenges Linux distributions in general and Ubuntu in particular concerning hardware support and proprietary drivers.

In my case, it broke two essential components.  

1. My graphics adapter is not supported by ATI's proprietary driver for the new X.org used in Jaunty.  The open source one lacks essential features.  Google Earth no longer runs, for instance. 

2 The Atheros wifi opensource driver, default in 9.04, freezes my system frequently.  Fortunately, proprietary MadWifi is still in the distribution.

Sticking with an older distribution is not really an option.  It makes application updates very difficult.

---

### Post by Jago6060 on 2009-08-07
Using 9.04 Server, no issues at all.  I've been very happy with it.  If you're looking for something very stable, all of my college computer courses used Slackware 10 which worked very well, although it needs a little more TLC to make things happen, its definitely worth it.

---

### Post by running_rabbit07 on 2009-08-07
I hope you were the only one who sniffed that Twinkie.

---

### Post by marianlibrarian on 2009-08-07
Twinkies will never be the same for me. 

I guess it could have been worse. You could have said Moon Pies.

---

### Post by Paddy Landau on 2009-08-07
> **evilbuntu said:**
> anyone know a good sector by sector free drive imaging software.
You can use PartImage (included with the [SysRescCD]("http://www.sysresccd.org/")). PartImage intelligently backs up only the used sectors and compresses the resulting image. You'll need an external hard drive for best results.

CloneZilla, which a previous poster mentioned, is similar to PartImage.

---

