---
title: "10.10 shutdown button (upper right corner) disappeared"
date: 2010-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by louisJ on 2010-11-06
Hi

the shutdown button disapparead in Ubuntu 10.10 in the upper right corner of gnome....see the attached capture.
Any idea how to get it back?

thanks

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-06
Right click the panel, add to panel, "indicator applet session". 
(It could do with a better name I think.)

---

### Post by arnavk007 on 2010-11-06
right click on the top panel click on add to panel and add the log out button
then you can log out and in that screen there is a shutdown button

---

### Post by louisJ on 2010-11-06
thanks for your answers.

The big red log out applet is not the original expanding menu applet. 
And, I don't see the indicator-applet-session, but I see and indicator applet which displays a copy of the sound, bluetooth, enveloppe icons..as in the attached capture ....but no default ubuntu shutdown button.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2010-11-06
This might help:
Try purging and reinstalling [COLOR=Blue]_**[indicator-applet-session]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/lucid/i386/indicator-applet-session/0.3.6-0ubuntu2")**_[/COLOR].
This can be done using Synaptic.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-11-06
[QUOTE=louisJ]
And, I don't see the indicator-applet-session, but I see and indicator applet [/QUOTE]

You should have both. As suggested above, try reinstalling  indicator-applet-session

from a terminal you can run

```
sudo apt-get install indicator-applet-session
```

Or use software center to reinstall it.

---

### Post by louisJ on 2010-11-06
thanks [searchfgold6789]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=926949"), the method with synaptic worked.

Thank you all.

---

