---
title: ".dmrc login error...and WAY BEYOND!"
date: 2008-07-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mazz72 on 2008-07-31
Ok. I've seen a lot of posts about the .dmrc error at login. "USER's $HOME/.dmrc file is being ignored...HOME directory must be owned by user, etc, etc...ok. So I was getting that message, and what a minor annoyance it was compared to what I have now. I followed the advice of someone in another thread about the same problem. I forget the actual commands now, and I can't find the original thread that I got it from, but it involved sudo chmod and sudo chown and permissions. anyway, I tried it. And I'll admit I didn't copy/paste, which I should have, so maybe I screwed something up, but in any case, I apparently have no permissions at all now.

When I try to sign in with my username/password, I get an extremely long message saying that my "session only lasted less than 10 seconds, there may be an installation problem or I may be out of diskspace". I know I'm not out of diskspace. Then it proceeds to tell me under 'details' that it can't create any directories...desktop, templates, public, docs, music, nothing. Then it says to try logging in with one of the failsafe sessions to try and fix the problem. So I give that a try (gnome failsafe) and get another message: (gnome-session:5819): libgnome vfs-WARNING **:Unable to create ~/.gnome2 directory: Permission denied.
followed by: Could not create per-user gnome configuration directory '/home/matt/.gnome2/': Permission denied. (I'm 'matt', by the way).:)

So basically, I can't do anything. I was able to get into the failsafe terminal, but I had no idea what to do once I got there.

Can anyone help out with this at all? Hell, if I could go back to just getting that annoying .dmrc error again, I'd be tinkled pink! :rolleyes:

Thanks for any help! :)

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-07-31
> **mazz72 said:**
> 
So basically, I can't do anything. I was able to get into the failsafe terminal, but I had no idea what to do once I got there.


This is a very convoluted problem; essentially you have no permissions in your home directory. That can happen because:

a) You don't own your home directory 
b) You don't have proper permissions on your home directory.

The first is relatively easy to fix; open a recovery terminal from GRUB, navigate to your home directory, and change ownership of everything in it.```

cd /home/matt
chown --preserve-root -R matt:matt *

```

for the second problem, you can do this, while in the same directory:```

chmod --preserve-root -R 667 *
```

VERY IMPORTANT NOTE: Some directories/files have different ownership/permissions, even in your home folder (specific example: ".dbus" directory is owned/group-ed "root"). These commands ignore this, and give you (matt) all permissions, other members in group "matt" read & write permissions, and all others also read/write permissions. Once your system is up and working again, you will need to fix these on a case by case basis.

Expect _lots_ of errors, but you should be able to log in; for every error, try to figure out an equivalent directory in your home folder, and post back here to see if you need different ownership/permissions for that directory.

---

### Post by mazz72 on 2008-07-31
k, that didn't do anything.

I'm still getting the "your system only lasted less than 10 seconds" spiel.

any other ideas? :confused:

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-07-31
> **mazz72 said:**
> any other ideas? :confused:

Idea 1:
=======
Ok, check your path variable in the file /etc/environment

Mine reads:```

Thu Jul 31 22:49:27 ~:$ cat /etc/environment | grep -i path
PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games"

```

If yours is different, modify it to match the above.


Idea 2:
=======

Create a new user with adduser (from the recovery console).
```

adduser --group newusername
adduser newusername newusername
adduser newusername adm
adduser newusername admin
adduser newusername audio
adduser newusername cdrom
adduser newusername dialout
adduser newusername disk
adduser newusername floppy
adduser newusername fuse
adduser newusername lpadmin
adduser newusername plugdev
adduser newusername video

```

and check if he can log in fine.

---

### Post by mazz72 on 2008-08-03
Hey guys, I'm sorry. Got called away on an emergency and had to go out of town for a couple nights. Anyway, prshah....

Neither of those ideas worked. It wouldn't let me add a new username. Kept saying adduser was "locked", and giving me an error '10'. The other idea just kept giving me a "no such directory" error.

Ya know what, though. I've been thinking of trying out a different distro, anyway, so this seems like as good a time as any. All of my important files are on another drive, so I'm just gonna start from scratch and try something new. I do appreciate the efforts, though. This thread can be closed or whatever. I don't know if it should be considered "solved" or not, but I have no use for it anymore.

Thanx again for the help. I know it didn't solve anything, but I do appreciate the effort, and I'm definitely not giving up on Linux. Good people involved. :)

See y'all around. :)

---

### Post by Noread on 2009-02-27
I've been receiving this error for a while now. When I fix it by chmodding my home dir and the .dmrc file with the proper rights the error goes away for a while, but it keeps coming back.

So, somewhere, something is chmodding my home dir and the .dmrc file and I want to find out what it is, but where do I start?

---

