---
title: "10.04 - Install Hung at 78-79%"
date: 2010-07-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Seraphina on 2010-07-10
I am stuck on the "Retrieving file" step of my initial Ubuntu install on a 12GB drive at 79% saying "Retrieving file 13 of 28".

I have not been able to install Ubuntu because of this reason.

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-07-10
1) Run 'Check Disk for Errors.'  It is on the menu that you see after it boots up; it is toward the bottom.

2) If that is ok, then burn the iso at the slowest speed available.

2) If that is ok, then md5sum the download to make sure that it is good.

---

### Post by Seraphina on 2010-07-10
There are no disk errors. I have a copy of the disk sent to me from the Ubuntu site.
The MD5 Checksum is vaild.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2010-07-10
Are you retrieving system files for installation or is this retrieving data files from a Windows install during installation ?

---

### Post by Seraphina on 2010-07-10
I'm not retrieving anything, Ubuntu does this automatically as an install step.
I am reformatting/erasing this harddrive after each attempt at installation.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2010-07-10
If your media checks out as clean then the next step would be to check your hardware. I would check memory first and this can be accomplished with the Live CD. Memtest is on the first menu on the live CD. Also while using the Live CD you can test your hard drive partition file systems with Gparted.

---

### Post by Seraphina on 2010-07-10
Well, I found the problem.
I did a "top", and my Xorg is running in the upper 95-100% CPU range.

This is because I have an nVidia card, which Ubuntu doesn't seem to like much I've heard.

Is their anyway to lower the priority of xorg to unstick it, or fix my graphics driver so that this does not happen. Either way I have to fix this issue now as well. I cannot, simply unplug the card and run with my motherboard... because that monitor socket is fried. >___<

```
PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND            
 1583 root      20   0 47428  12m 6996 R 93.2  2.6  89:36.47 Xorg               
 3107 ubuntu    20   0  179m  33m  25m S  3.6  6.8   4:02.13 ubiquity           
 9538 ubuntu    20   0  301m  57m  25m S  1.6 11.5   1:31.59 firefox-bin        
 9647 ubuntu    20   0  2540 1192  892 R  0.7  0.2   0:00.28 top                
 9626 ubuntu    20   0 44624  12m 9736 S  0.3  2.5   0:01.77 gnome-terminal     
    1 root      20   0  2800 1480 1180 S  0.0  0.3   0:00.97 init               
    2 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 kthreadd           
    3 root      RT   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 migration/0        
    4 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 ksoftirqd/0        
    5 root      RT   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 watchdog/0         
    6 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.10 events/0           
    7 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 cpuset             
    8 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 khelper            
    9 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 netns              
   10 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 async/mgr          
   11 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 pm                 
   12 root      20   0     0    0    0 S  0.0  0.0   0:00.00 sync_supers   
```

---

### Post by Seraphina on 2010-07-10
The install, for once, actually seems to be continuing... just at a snails pace.

It says "Retrieving file 15 of 28 (3s remaining)"
This takes like 20 minutes to complete... However it does indeed complete.

---

### Post by Steve Francis on 2010-07-12
I had the same problem with installing 10.04.

There is a bug reported:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/445385](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity/+bug/445385)

I disconnected my ethernet cable and the installation continued at a snail's pace.

(Like you, I have an nVidia graphics card.)

---

### Post by pktrivedi on 2010-09-16
Me too, me too :D

I too have an nVidia graphics card and 9.10 worked perfectly well.
But this 10.04 stopped at 78% trying to retrieve the files first time I started install, and there was a skip button which did not seem to work.
I started install again and as soon as it reached 78% and showed "retrieving...", I immediately pressed skip and it went through completing the install.
So my problem was solved as soon as it arrived. :p

Surprisingly 10.04 already has the drivers for nVidia but still I do not know what is it trying to retrieve!

---

### Post by hekau on 2011-06-05
> **Steve Francis said:**
> 
(Like you, I have an nVidia graphics card.)

Don't think, that it's because of nVidia graphics card. I have ati, but have same stuck on "Retrieving file"... In both, ubuntu and kubuntu. Disconnecting internet does not show that retrieving thing and continues installation. However, in ubuntu I could just skip that, but in kubuntu the X button seems don't work on "Retrieving file".

---

