---
title: ".exe?!"
date: 2009-03-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jtb_90 on 2009-03-15
Ok I'm new here so I'll give you the run down =]

I started out with my very first computer about 7 years ago with XP on and I was like :| What do I do.. got the hang of it.. bout 5/6 years later got Vista.. oh dear! So I decided to BETA test Windows 7, not gonna lie it is pretty sweet, I really did like it and I'll consider purchasing it when it comes out.

But for years I'd go to download some software and I'd keep seeing "UNIX/Linux/Ubuntu" all over pages with these .tar.gz everywhere.. then about a year ago I found out it was an OS.

Past few months I've been wondering what the hell it's like.. so I got myself a copy of Ubuntu and booted it into a virtual machine, first impression.. "It's a boring orange and brown OS.." never thought anything of it and exited.. then I got more curious.. played around with Ubuntu Ultimate 2.0 on a VM and kinda found it interesting, decided to dual boot it with my Windows.. since I booted it I never went on Windows! So today I've reinstalled Ubuntu Ultimate 2.1 and used the entire hard disk, complete switch to Linux!

I do love it, I slate my Dad for having Windows it's funny cause he knows what I say is true. Thing is what I've always been wondering, why doesn't Linux support .exe files but will gladly release WINE with some distros to support them?

Sorry if that's a typical noob question! I can work Windows no problem I'm quite experienced.. it's just that I'm a complete beginner to Linux!

Cheers! :D

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-03-15
I'd like to think that linux supports .exe's through wine.

---

### Post by Agent ME on 2009-03-15
EXE files are windows programs. If you want to use them on Linux, you need to use Wine, which includes a lot of files to help set them up correctly to work on Linux.

Installing wine isn't hard - go to Applications -> Add/Remove Programs, type 'wine' in the search box, checkmark the first result, and press Apply Changes. *(Or in a terminal, the single command "sudo apt-get install wine" will do it.)* After that, many *(but not all - Wine isn't perfect - but surprisingly many do work)* EXE files will run fine.

---

### Post by lvleph on 2009-03-15
Windows and Linux have different kernels and different libraries. Every program needs to be able to communicate with the kernel. So in short exe files are written for the windows kernel and linux does not use that kernel. However, there have been attempts to support such files by implementing programs such as Wine.

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-03-15
An exe is a Windows executable file -- in other words, a program.  Traditionally, a program is compiled from source code, and will only run on the operating system for which it is compiled.  (And with Windows you generally just get the compiled program rather than the source code, so you can't just compile it for another OS.)  This is why you can't run a Windows program on a Mac or vice versa.  The same is true of running Windows programs on Linux.  Since Linux is a different operating system, a program compiled for Windows won't run on Linux -- at least without a little help.

Wine is an application interface that lets (some) Windows applications run on Linux.  Its sort of like...  Suppose a particular customer will only buy bread from men.  A female baker wants the customer's business, so she dresses like a man whenever he comes around.  Wine is the disguise that the baker (i.e. Linux) wears to do business with the picky customer (i.e. the Windows application).  Unfortunately, the disguise isn't perfect, so some Windows programs still won't run on Linux even with Wine.

Linux itself doesn't really care about file extensions.  *Any* file in Linux can technically be executable if that file permission is set.  This is why you don't see anything like "exe" on any files in Linux -- the name of a program's executable is generally just the name of the program, with no file extension.  So you have "gedit" instead of "gedit.exe".  Of course, if a file doesn't contain executable code of some kind, it won't do anything even if the executable file permission is set.

Some software doesn't care what operating system runs it.  Java is a programming language designed to be OS-independent.  That's why OpenOffice -- which is written in Java -- can be installed on Windows, Mac OS X, or Linux.  Similarly, code written in scripting languages like Python or PHP don't have to be compiled, and as long as they don't use system-specific libraries programs written in these languages will run on any OS.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-03-16
You might want to read [http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/LNW.htm](http://linux.oneandoneis2.org/LNW.htm)

---

### Post by jtb_90 on 2009-03-16
Wow cheers guys that did help, I don't know why I chose Linux to be honest, I was just curious, I'm forever trying out new OS's on virtual machines and Linux won the biscuit!

So, why in a future distro, as Ubuntu and WINE are so close, don't they merge and allow Ubuntu to natively run .exe files? Or is that another n00b question which I should be frowned upon for asking?

Cheers!

---

### Post by buldozerceto on 2009-03-16
Besides wine you can use vmware and create your own virtual machine in ubuntu and install any windows os and run any exe file.

---

### Post by Gunman1982 on 2009-03-16
> **jtb_90 said:**
> 
So, why in a future distro, as Ubuntu and WINE are so close, don't they merge and allow Ubuntu to natively run .exe files? Or is that another n00b question which I should be frowned upon for asking?

Cheers!

Feel frowned upon :P , just kidding. The 'way' of Gnu/Linux is to be free (sense of free thoughts, not free beer, .... mhhhh beeeeeer) giving the user the choice to decide what he wants to use. Therefor everything is quite modular. You don't want wine: don't install it. You want wine: install it.

Furthermore wine is not really a small project. How long did they take to release 1.0? (Official 'stable' version) 15 years? And its still not working without flaws, although they did an incredible job.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-03-16
> **jtb_90 said:**
> So, why in a future distro, as Ubuntu and WINE are so close, don't they merge and allow Ubuntu to natively run .exe files? 

That's the thing: It's not native and it would never be native as the Windows programs are trying to access Windows libraries and parts of a running Windows instance. If we basically implement the Win32 platform into Ubuntu, then we'd be using up lots of disk space and lots of memory. We'd also be introducing lots of security problems from Windows.

If you're just asking why Ubuntu doesn't ship with Wine preinstalled, then the answer is more simple. Canonical is worried that Microsoft could try and sue for intellectual property or patents from the Wine code. It also appears to be Ubuntu policy to only ship software that can be run on all supported architectures; by its very nature, Wine only runs on x86-compatible processors, and Ubuntu is supported on x86, SPARC and ARM. The only exceptions to the rule are programs necessary to boot Ubuntu, like GRUB.

If Wine was preinstalled and Windows programs could be opened with a double-click, the greenest newbies would assume that they could install all their Windows programs and drivers. Wine doesn't work very well with many Windows programs; the end result would be that the newbie would say "This OS sucks, it can't run any programs". If double-clicking on a Windows executable does nothing except bring up an error message about an "unsupported file type", people do seem to get the point that they need to find Linux programs.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-03-16
> **jtb_90 said:**
> So, why in a future distro, as Ubuntu and WINE are so close, don't they merge and allow Ubuntu to natively run .exe files? Or is that another n00b question which I should be frowned upon for asking?

Cheers!
You should never count on Wine being able to run a certain program, to be able to reliably run every single windows executable you'd also need to implement every single feature of Windows. Lots of work, and you'd end up with free version of Windows, including all it's bad sides as well. That's not what Ubuntu (or an other Linux distro) is trying to accomplish. The purpose is not to become a free Windows but a free, as good as possible, operating system.

So no, you shouldn't expect any Linux distribution to merge with Wine or even include it by default. It's unreliable, and misses the main point of using some other OS than Windows. Using Linux-native programs instead of Windows ones is the way to go, and Wine is just a nice little extra that might sometimes be useful.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-03-16
I believe *.exe is backward compatibility with DOS  (.com, .bat, etc.). Windows is based on the old DOS (their feeding oats to a dead horse). Anyhoo most Windows programs are based mostly of .DLLs  and if it were newer, I believe it would be built better. Time for Microsnot to step aside.

---

### Post by jtb_90 on 2009-03-16
> If you're just asking why Ubuntu doesn't ship with Wine preinstalled

3rdalbum you knew exactly what I was asking! Now I know why it doesn't ship with the WINE engine thanks for clearing that up :)

Is WINE anything to do with Microsoft? Sorry if I'm rambling I'm just interested :)

Cheers!

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2009-03-16
WINE has nothing to do with Microsoft aside from being an API conversion to run Windows software.

Microsoft likely hates the existence of the WINE project but they can't do jack about it.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-03-16
> **jtb_90 said:**
> So, why in a future distro, as Ubuntu and WINE are so close, don't they merge and allow Ubuntu to natively run .exe files?

The fact of the matter is that they are not close. Ubuntu is linux. WINE is a layer between a windows application and linux. They are actually quite different.

In reality, WINE is more like a linux application.

---

