---
title: "LibreOffice Calc takes long time to save a file"
date: 2015-04-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2015-04-15
I have a spreadsheet (~95KB) with about 250 sheets and each sheet contains some data and formula calculating the mean and standard deviation of the data. I noticed that it takes about 25 seconds to save the file every time even when I just change a number. It is a long time for me, considering the file size, do you think it is normal speed? If not, is there a way to speed up the file saving process?

I converted the file to MS Excel format (.xlsx) and made the same change as I do in .ods format, then saved in MS Office. The save was finished instantly, while LibreOffice still took about 25 seconds to finish.

I disabled Java in LibreOffice but it didn't help.

Thanks,

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-04-15
What format did you save the file to?

---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2015-04-15
The default LibreOffice format .ods

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-04-16
Which version of LO are you using? It claims that the bug is fixed [https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=79288&redirected_from=fdo](https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=79288&redirected_from=fdo)

Try to update LO from [https://launchpad.net/~libreoffice/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~libreoffice/+archive/ubuntu/ppa)

If still not working for you, file a bug against LO in the first link, they are pretty responsive.

---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2015-04-16
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Which version of LO are you using? It claims that the bug is fixed [https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=79288&redirected_from=fdo](https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=79288&redirected_from=fdo)

Try to update LO from [https://launchpad.net/~libreoffice/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~libreoffice/+archive/ubuntu/ppa)

If still not working for you, file a bug against LO in the first link, they are pretty responsive.

I am using 4.2.7.2, and I filed a new bug report. Will see what will happen next.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-04-16
Can you provide a link to your bug report? Thanks.

---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2015-04-16
Sure, here is the link: [https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=90659](https://bugs.documentfoundation.org/show_bug.cgi?id=90659)

I also upgraded my LibreOffice to 4.4.2.2 via PPA from the link in your post, but the problem still exists.

[UPDATE]: it seems that the upgrade actually fixed the problem. The first time when LibreOffice saves the file, it takes about 25 seconds, but after that it saves the file almost instantly. Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2015-04-17
I think I jumped the gun by saying the issue was fixed with the LibreOffice upgrade. The problem came back after I added a new sheet to the file.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-04-17
Yes, I did a test with a huge test spreadsheet (10.6 MB), it took a long time to save after just changing one random cell. But I think it may not be unusual as it is not common to have spreadsheet that big (it was a csv generated by a statistical program and then saved as ods) I will do more tests with other versions of LO on other OSes, if there is a difference I will file a bug.

---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2015-04-17
My file is only about 100kb, but each sheet has formulas to calculate mean and standard deviation. I have attached a test file to the bug per their request, and you can use that file to test.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2015-04-19
Same issue here with your test: 
Version: 4.3.4.1
Build ID: bc356b2f991740509f321d70e4512a6a54c5f243 (from libreoffice.org not from the Software Center or a ppa).

I have a Dell Core2Duo laptop (from 2009) with 4 GB RAM running Lubuntu 14.04. My cpu usage goes up to ~ 50% while the saving takes place.

Even setting Precision as displayed didn't help.

I haven't checked with Excel.

---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2015-04-20
This is what I am doing now until the issue can be fixed by LO. I saved the file as Excel format .xlsx, then upload it to my Microsoft OneDrive account, then use Excel Online to open it. The file save in Excel Online has no problem at all, no matter if I add a new sheet or make a minor change.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-05-05
just updated LO to 4.4.3, your problem seems to be fixed (I tested with your simulation file)

---

