---
title: "11.04 flickering screen, 11.10 sluggish performance."
date: 2011-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Beiz on 2011-12-10
**I have 4 problems with Ubuntu on my computer.**
**1.** Installing version 11.04 will work fine from LiveCD, but upon boot, the screen is striped purple with no text or anything - removing quiet splash from grub allows me to view the boot, however the screen splits in half and flickers like epilepsy - impossible to login (upgrade from 10.10 works fine, as the video drivers are available).
**2.** Installing version 11.10 will work fine from LiveCD, etc, same as above. I have been able to access the system once from the login, which allowed me to update the video drivers and fix the problem.
**3.** I cannot dual boot Ubuntu when Installed on my SSD. 
**4. **Ubuntu will act incredibly sluggish, and all open windows continuously gray out, along with Banshee, Firefox and Transmission crashing, movies and web streams have noticeable FPS, system actions has poor response, log out/restart/etc option may require to be re-issued several times before action, and other application malfunctioning. This behavior is persistent exclusively in 11.04-11.10. I do not have these problems when the OS is installed on the IDE or SATA HDDs, nor is it relevant to any other OS or version of Ubuntu.

Is there any drivers or BIOS settings that could help prevent the system from acting this way when installed on the SSD? The HDD is an OCZ Agility 3 SATA III 2.5" 60GB SSD. *EDIT: updated the ssd firmware from 2.06 to 2.15, if it matters.*

Thanks.

---

### Post by Beiz on 2011-12-12
rewrote my post to be less texty.

---

