---
title: "12.04 Failed to download repository information"
date: 2012-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by manqueller on 2012-10-24
I'm using Ubuntu 12.04 and When I go to the update manager and check for new updates I get an error saying "Failed to download Repository information" with these details:

W:Failed to fetch [http://ppa.launchpad.net/unity-team/hud/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/source/Sources](http://ppa.launchpad.net/unity-team/hud/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/source/Sources)  404  Not Found
, W:Failed to fetch [http://ppa.launchpad.net/unity-team/hud/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/binary-i386/Packages](http://ppa.launchpad.net/unity-team/hud/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/binary-i386/Packages)  404  Not Found
, E:Some index files failed to download. They have been ignored, or old ones used instead.

are these valid repositories?   

I want to update to 12.10 but I am not sure that is a good idea until I can make sure I am up to date on 12.04.

Thanks,

Brian

---

### Post by claracc on 2012-10-25
The two URL's produce the same result: Not Found

The requested URL /unity-team/hud/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/source/Sources was not found on this server.
Apache/2.2.14 (Ubuntu) Server at ppa.launchpad.net Port 80

So they cannot be valid ppas for these software packages.

I would wait to the following release 12.10.01 to upgrade the system till the most important bugs will be solved.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-10-25
To whatever reason this ppa is no longer maintained. Not only the source branch is empty, all others are too. So, this has nothing to do with Ubuntu as a distribution since the ppa's are maintained independently. If a team makes the decision to no longer maintain its ppa, there is not much to do about it. 

> I would wait to the following release 12.10.01 to upgrade the system till the most important bugs will be solved.

What makes you think that there will be a 12.10.01 release, since 12.10 is a normal release and no LTS?

---

### Post by claracc on 2012-10-25
> **2F4U said:**
> 


What makes you think that there will be a 12.10.01 release, since 12.10 is a normal release and no LTS?

Forget it, as 12.10 is not a LTS , it won't be a 12.10.01 release. I commited an error.

Anycase, what I mean it is better to wait for two or three months till the more important bugs will be solved, since the final quantal quetzal has just been released October the 18th.

---

### Post by manqueller on 2012-10-25
Thanks for the help.  I will remove those repositories.  I never added them they came with the original install so I'm guessing other people have seen this error for these as well.

Brian

---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2012-10-25
You can use this:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
then:
```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```
Which should update your files.

Daniel

---

