---
title: "11.04 - how to take screen shots ?"
date: 2011-09-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rishi_singh on 2011-09-29
Please tell. I need it to solve one of my problems here. If there is no way, then i will have to get a camera and take photos.

---

### Post by judoka9999 on 2011-09-29
In 11.04, at least in the classic session, you can go to System -> Preferences -> Keyboard Shortcuts

There are options for "Take a Screenshot" and "Take a Screenshot of a window."

I don't run Unity, but since it still runs compiz as the window manager by default, I bet you could enable the screenshot plugin in CCSM and bind a key to it.

---

### Post by rishi_singh on 2011-09-29
> **judoka9999 said:**
> In 11.04, at least in the classic session, you can go to System -> Preferences -> Keyboard Shortcuts

There are options for "Take a Screenshot" and "Take a Screenshot of a window."

I don't run Unity, but since it still runs compiz as the window manager by default, I bet you could enable the screenshot plugin in CCSM and bind a key to it.

Please make it a little clearer. unity ??? compiz ??? CCSM ? how to bind keys ?

---

### Post by HuaiDan on 2011-09-29
Default is "Print screen" for a screenshot of the whole desktop, or"alt-print screen" for a screenshot of the window in focus.

By "print screen", I mean the key on the keyboard that's usually next to f12, and above Insert/Delete/Home/End on most standard keyboards.

---

### Post by rishi_singh on 2011-10-30
> **HuaiDan said:**
> Default is "Print screen" for a screenshot of the whole desktop, or"alt-print screen" for a screenshot of the window in focus.

By "print screen", I mean the key on the keyboard that's usually next to f12, and above Insert/Delete/Home/End on most standard keyboards.

Any utilities that can do this (screen capture) ?

---

### Post by jon zendatta on 2011-10-30
Just follow HuaiDan's  post #4:KS

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2011-10-30
Shutter is terrific, available in the Software Centre.

[http://shutter-project.org/](http://shutter-project.org/)

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-10-30
The Gimp can do this, I attach a screenshot of Gimp taking a screenshot :).

---

### Post by linuxaddix on 2011-10-30
if you are using compiz in 11.04 go into compiz and make sure gnome compatability is checked and from there you should be able to use just the prnt scrn button

---

### Post by alexandros81 on 2011-10-30
Hi all! In Windows I press the key prt sc and I use Paint to edit my screen shot. Is there an equivalent program to Paint or something similar?

---

### Post by WasMeHere on 2011-10-30
@ rishi_singh
Simply press the 'Print Screen' (PrtScrn) button will work on most computers. It has been suggested in this thread. Does it work for you?

@ alexandros81
The ***gimp*** is a very powerful tool, that can do simple as well as advanced tasks. Try it! Come back, if you want something simpler!

---

### Post by rishi_singh on 2011-10-30
> **HuaiDan said:**
> Default is "Print screen" for a screenshot of the whole desktop, or"alt-print screen" for a screenshot of the window in focus.

By "print screen", I mean the key on the keyboard that's usually next to f12, and above Insert/Delete/Home/End on most standard keyboards.

Yes that works. Thanks ! I will also try shutter now. For the guy who wants an alternative to paint, try gimp, its nice.

---

### Post by rishi_singh on 2011-10-30
> **alexandros81 said:**
> Hi all! In Windows I press the key prt sc and I use Paint to edit my screen shot. Is there an equivalent program to Paint or something similar?

I dont know about something similar which is included with linux. But try gimp for both linux and windows. Its way more powerful than the silly paint...and its FREE. However, its interface/screens can be a little overwhelming for someone looking forward to basic stuff like just drawing shapes and lines. But its a good tool and quite easy to use too.

---

### Post by rishi_singh on 2011-10-30
> **Rodney9 said:**
> Shutter is terrific, available in the Software Centre.

[http://shutter-project.org/](http://shutter-project.org/)


Ubuntu wont allow me to install it because of security issues - untrusted source or something like that. I guess i am a "root user", so should not be a problem.

---

### Post by valvegrid on 2011-10-30
Go to the Ubuntu Software Centre and type Shutter in and you should be able to install it from there.

---

