---
title: "11.10 - Set password to 'None', now no root access"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by khansen3 on 2011-10-16
I am running Ubuntu 11.10 and accidentally set my password to 'None' in 'User Accounts' (trying to avoid having to type password on login), and now can't figure out how to get root access to change back. I tried to change the passwords in recovery mode, but got an 'Authentication token manipulation error'. Any ideas?

---

### Post by hwttdz on 2011-10-16
You can always boot into single user mode and change the password of both root and your user account.  Shift before grub, select recovery, and then 
passwd - to set root
passwd loginname - to set yours

Also there should be an autologin option somewhere in the system->login window.

---

### Post by khansen3 on 2011-10-16
I tried booting into recovery mode and changing the password with passwd: that's where I get 'Authentication token manipulation error' for both passwd and passwd loginname.

---

### Post by hwttdz on 2011-10-17
Here's another thought, 

[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-software-2/passwd-authentication-token-manipulation-error-902671/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-software-2/passwd-authentication-token-manipulation-error-902671/)

boils down to make sure you've mounted as rw and not ro.

Also remove libpam-sss libnss-sss (if you have them).

---

### Post by alquirel on 2011-10-17
Hello,
I have same problem too, when I choose "no password", my user password becomes unavailable. I think this is a bug in "user accounts" utility. But i haven't seen a bug report for this.
Anyway, I handled the password problem by opening terminal with Ctrl + Alt + 1 keys, then running [COLOR=SeaGreen]sudo passwd username[/COLOR] command.

After that, I redefined a password for my user at "user accounts", and turned on the password verification on login, but still LightDM did not ask the password. The command above solves only password issue, not logging without password issue.

---

### Post by WanderingAlbatross on 2011-10-18
Thank you alquirel!  That worked well. [URL="http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1098281"]
[/URL]

---

### Post by ivan68 on 2011-10-19
> **alquirel said:**
> Hello,
I have same problem too, when I choose "no password", my user password becomes unavailable. I think this is a bug in "user accounts" utility. But i haven't seen a bug report for this.
Anyway, I handled the password problem by opening terminal with Ctrl + Alt + 1 keys, then running [COLOR=SeaGreen]sudo passwd username[/COLOR] command.

After that, I redefined a password for my user at "user accounts", and turned on the password verification on login, but still LightDM did not ask the password. The command above solves only password issue, not logging without password issue.

Sorry if I'm thick but I'm new in this Linux/Ubuntu world.

I can follow what you wrote until " Ctrl + Alt + 1 keys, then running [COLOR=SeaGreen]sudo passwd username[/COLOR] command" I did that and I've been asked for a password, I wrote the one I had before setting it on "None" but it's not working.

You are talking about a redefinition of the password... how do I do that?

Thank you.

---

### Post by gacb on 2011-10-19
I upgraded from 11.04 and either the user or password became invalid. At the moment, I can't get past the login page.

Booting into recover mode is no help.

The same thing happened on a different computer with Lubuntu.

---

### Post by moshjosh on 2011-10-20
> **ivan68 said:**
> Sorry if I'm thick but I'm new in this Linux/Ubuntu world.

I can follow what you wrote until " Ctrl + Alt + 1 keys, then running [COLOR=SeaGreen]sudo passwd username[/COLOR] command" I did that and I've been asked for a password, I wrote the one I had before setting it on "None" but it's not working.

You are talking about a redefinition of the password... how do I do that?

Thank you.

"Ctrl + Alt + 1" refers to Ctrl + Alt + F1 (the function key).  This thread helped me a lot when i had deleted the password.  to exit this tty press Ctrl + Alt+ F6 (or F7 i think) and you'll get the gui back
.

Hope that helps to get the password reset.  If it still doesn't work i'll try to remember any of the other things I did to fix it...

---

### Post by westie457 on 2011-10-20
Hi, try the suggestions posted by drs305 in this thread. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865157](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1865157)

---

### Post by alquirel on 2011-10-20
> **ivan68 said:**
> Sorry if I'm thick but I'm new in this Linux/Ubuntu world.

I can follow what you wrote until " Ctrl + Alt + 1 keys, then running [COLOR=SeaGreen]sudo passwd username[/COLOR] command" I did that and I've been asked for a password, I wrote the one I had before setting it on "None" but it's not working.

You are talking about a redefinition of the password... how do I do that?

Thank you.

@moshjosh thanks for correction :)
By the way, the returning keys are Ctrl + Alt + F7

@ivan68,
My redefinition is this: After I did reset my password using terminal, I saw that LightDM still didn't ask my password. Than in the user accounts window I rewrite a password for making the password asking available on login. But still I am logging in without password.

---

### Post by Borut12 on 2011-10-28
I had also this problem.
I solve it with this 

Step 1) open a terminal or "console"...Application_>Accessories->Te…
Step 2) Type the following line (you will need to enter your password)
               sudo visudo
Step 3) use the down arrow key to get to the last line and enter the following line (change USERNAME to your username)
USERNAME ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
Step 4) Press control and X together to exit and save.

I had a some problems when I typed (sudo visudo)
It was asked me for password, but did not akcepted mine password.

I typed (paswd)  . and then was mine password akcepted.ž

Then I gone with step 3 and I solved that problem

---

### Post by jantab on 2011-12-20
Hi-
I am having the same problem.
I have accidentally deleted my password (thinking that would only disable it at login) and now I have no superuser access to anything.

When I log into recovery mode as root, trying to change the password with ```
passwd *username*
```
results in
```
Authentication token manipulation error
```

None of the proposed solutions works for me.
Any other ideas? Thanks...

---

### Post by jantab on 2011-12-20
Ok, sorry...

Post #5 proposing typing
```
sudo passwd *username*
```
in tty1 hadn't worked for me, asking for my original (lost) password but after a few reboots it just somehow stopped asking and did what I needed ;)

Actually, I gave it an other chance following this post:
> **oldos2er said:**
> Check post #3 in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11379306](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11379306)

Still, it seems strange to me that what couldn't be done under root in recovery console could be done under sudo in tty1 :confused:

---

### Post by praful.p.pai on 2012-01-20
Had the same problem.

Open the terminal.
Type 'passwd'
Type in new password.

---

### Post by apache72 on 2012-02-03
:guitar::guitar:alquirel-you rock.after over30 day and tryies i got it thanx> **alquirel said:**
> Hello,
I have same problem too, when I choose "no password", my user password becomes unavailable. I think this is a bug in "user accounts" utility. But i haven't seen a bug report for this.
Anyway, I handled the password problem by opening terminal with Ctrl + Alt + 1 keys, then running [COLOR=SeaGreen]sudo passwd username[/COLOR] command.

After that, I redefined a password for my user at "user accounts", and turned on the password verification on login, but still LightDM did not ask the password. The command above solves only password issue, not logging without password issue.

---

### Post by rommieuserxero on 2012-05-26
**n**ote(Ubuntu **12.04**)

After searching "ubuntu password set to none" and this being the top result in Google, I thought I would try to help.

 Read before starting.
I have repeated this cycle and it works, note this cycle includes the cause:


**1**. Open User Accounts window, click Unlock, type password, click Authenticate.

**2**. Click [SIZE=4][SIZE=2]"[/SIZE]**.....**[/SIZE][SIZE=2]" next to "Password[/SIZE]",  drop down the dialog box next to Action, click "Log in without a  password.", click Change. Then either exit User Accounts or click Lock.

*This problem*

**3**. Press Ctrl+Alt+F1 and you will go into a line user interface(lui) lets call "tty1".
**TO EXIT PRESS**: Ctrl+Alt+F7 by the way.

**4**. You will see "ub1 login:", type your username, press enter.  Normally it will ask for a password but it auto logins because of step  #2.

**5**. After the new *username@ub1:~$* type "passwd". If you type "passwd bob secret123" it will show help dialog as you **fail**ed to use proper format. **However** "passwd Julian" also works. Typing either will show: "Enter new UNIX password:".
_Clarification_:  "*passwd*" and "*passwd Julian*" both work, if your username is Julian. Lol.

**TO EXIT PRESS**: Ctrl+Alt+F7 by the way.

**5 extra info**. Your password is considered "expired" as you have  no password and "passwd josephina --keep-tokens" sets your password if  expired. Typing "passwd a a" will cause error and display "Usage" for  passwd. Here you can see *--keep-tokens* and other "options".  Typing "passwd" shown above does the same action by default because  there is no password set and your password is considered "expired".

**6**. Type your password after "Enter new UNIX password:" and then confirm it.
(note. you will NOT see the password being typed)
Press Ctrl+Alt+F7 to exit tty1. Go to User Accounts and click Unlock. Type that password and it should Unlock.


You can restart from step #**1** to test this again.
Although you would need to open tty2 [SIZE=1](or 3,4,5,6)[/SIZE] using Ctrl+Alt+F2 [SIZE=1](or 3,4,5,6[/SIZE]) to repeat.

The solution comes from tty1 requiring login and the auto login you set on step #2.
This differs from the normal *terminal*.

---

Hope this gives insight,
**R**ommie.


***P.s.** *And no you cannot use the --expire option to force  the password to expire if you cannot login in the first place with an  non-expired password, the only reason you could login is because the  auto-login.
[RIGHT]***i.e.*** no cracking peoples Ubuntu password ***[SIZE=1]lolol....[/SIZE]***
[/RIGHT]

---

### Post by jinglepig on 2012-06-15
thanks for the explanation moshjosh. fixed the problem for me.

---

### Post by michael2009 on 2012-09-29
Thanks for the instructions, they worked for me too.

---

