---
title: "My Xorg is broken I think"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KrGAce on 2008-04-30
Hello,

I have a Latitude (Dell) d830 and I am running Hardy, and everytime I enable the Nvidia driver (Quadra NVS 140) the machine reboots and I have a grey screen with a black bar down the middle.  Having looked at my Xorg.conf file (not knowing much about it) it looks like it's missing some information.  I wondered if someone could look and see any problems.  It is below..

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection




Many thanks in advance.  Also, obviously because of this, I cannot get Desktop Effects to work without the NVidia driver.

AceMan

AceMan

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-04-30
edit: I'm overly zealous. Try this first, and restart X.
```
$ sudo nvidia-xconfig -d 24 --allow-glx-with-composite --add-argb-glx-visuals --randr-rotation
```
If it doesn't work, read on.



[quote=me]I'd try this. Make a backup of your xorg.conf first.
```
$ sudo aptitude purge ~nnvidia
$ sudo aptitude install nvidia-glx-legacy nvidia-settings
$ sudo nvidia-xconfig -d 24 --allow-glx-with-composite --add-argb-glx-visuals --randr-rotation
```
Looking at this list of [Nvidia Legacy devices](http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_32667.html), it seems like you need that driver. I'm not sure if the Hardy package includes the 1.0-96xx or the 1.0-71xx driver version, though, and frankly it confuses me.

One alternative, if that doesn't work, is to redo it and have envyNG install the drivers, replacing the second command.
```
$ sudo aptitude purge ~nnvidia
$ sudo aptitude install envyng
$ sudo envyng -t          # install Nvidia driver
$ sudo nvidia-xconfig -d 24 --allow-glx-with-composite --add-argb-glx-visuals --randr-rotation
```[/quote]

---

### Post by KrGAce on 2008-04-30
Okay with this..
 sudo nvidia-xconfig -d 24 --allow-glx-with-composite --add-argb-glx-visuals --randr-rotation

I got this..
Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a Driver
                  line.

Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" "True" added to Screen "Screen0".
Option "RandRRotation" "True" added to Screen "Screen0".
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True" added to Screen "Screen0".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

As for Envy, I have that program install the drivers, reboot, and blank screen.  I am confused if this is a driver issue, or my monitor.  Trying your other suggestions now.

---

### Post by KrGAce on 2008-04-30
With this..

sudo install nvidia-glx-legacy nvidia-settings

I get this..

install: cannot stat `nvidia-glx-legacy': No such file or directory



I do appreciate your help.

AceMan

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-04-30
Typo, supposed to be sudo **aptitude** install. My bad.

---

### Post by KrGAce on 2008-04-30
> **Zorael said:**
> Typo, supposed to be sudo **aptitude** install. My bad.


No problem, thanks for the help.

---

