---
title: "Ver 18.10  Mate  Where are the sources  files?"
date: 2019-03-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oilyfish on 2019-03-12
in 17 and  I think in 18.04   it was 
/etc/apt/sources.list
I am trying to see if I have conflicting sources from different  distros
I'm having an issue with  an installation  seems  there is an issue with a release file  while trying to install KDE Connect

In Terminal I get this error message 
E:  The repository 'http://ppa.launchpad.net/vikoadi/ppa/ubuntu cosmic Release' does not have a Release file
N: Updating from such a repository can't be done securely, and is therefore disabled by default.
N: See apt-secure(8) manpage for repository creation and user configuration details.

I've gone through the  software updated and removed  the redundant  PPAs 
so I got  two fewer of those error messages ( above)  but I still get on and KDE Connect will not install.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2019-03-12
PPAs and external repositories are listed in individual files in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/

---

### Post by oilyfish on 2019-03-12
thanks   I was unable to find it  using CTL H in the GUI  bit in terminal  it was there.

It does not appear I have any  funky sources 

notepadqq-team-ubuntu-notepadqq-cosmic.list      ubuntu-wine-ubuntu-ppa-cosmic.list       vikoadi-ubuntu-ppa-cosmic.list
notepadqq-team-ubuntu-notepadqq-cosmic.list.save  ubuntu-wine-ubuntu-ppa-cosmic.list.save  vikoadi-ubuntu-ppa-cosmic.list.save

Everything is cosmic 
I've read that a release file issue like I'm having can have  at its root a problem with hinky Distro combinations in that folder.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2019-03-12
The 'vikoadi'-ppa does not have a Release file for Ubuntu 18.10 since it does not have any files for anything newer than 16.04. Additionally this launchpad member has a karma value of 0 (which means he has not done anything on launchpad creating positive karma for a year or more) and the last build of new packages in this archive was 172 weeks - more than 3 years - ago. You will have to find another source for KDE Connect.

Holger

---

### Post by oilyfish on 2019-03-12
>  You will have to find another source for KDE Connect. 
thanks for that.  It looked like such a nice app too.

---

