---
title: "9.04 runs slower than 8.04"
date: 2009-06-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jwnorbury on 2009-06-26
Hey, I've been running 8.04 as my only system, its been very stable and fast and I've had no problems. My friend told me that 9.04 and I installed it. Since then I've noticed that 9.04 runs slower than 8.04, my mouse seems to be slower than it was before windows maximise and minimise very slowly as well. Has anyone else experienced this or found a solution, if worse comes to the worse I'll just revert back to 8.04.

Thanks guys

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2009-06-26
9.04 comes with compiz enabled by default, I dont believe 8.04 did that hit alt+F2 and type metacity --replace then let me know if its any faster.

---

### Post by jwnorbury on 2009-06-26
I had compiz enabled under 8.04, also had emerald themes and it still ran smoothly, but not in 9.04. And yes using metacity does make it faster (only slightly), but doesn't have the visual effects I want.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-06-26
take a look at my optimization suggestions at [Tips: Things that might improve Jaunty performance](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1152095)

If you have Intel graphics card visit the [Jaunty Intel Graphics Performance Guide.](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582)

Don't forget to enable the proprietary drivers for your graphics card.

---

### Post by oxf on 2009-06-26
> **t4thfavor said:**
> 9.04 comes with compiz enabled by default, I dont believe 8.04 did that hit alt+F2 and type metacity --replace then let me know if its any faster.

I think I'm having the same problem. Is that "run in terminal" "run with file or just "run"?

and ...how to you diable compiz in the GUI?

Thanks

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2009-06-26
> **oxf said:**
> I think I'm having the same problem. Is that "run in terminal" "run with file or just "run"?

and ...how to you diable compiz in the GUI?

Thanks

System - Preferences - Appearance - Visual Effects.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2009-06-26
First check for an available driver, if compiz ran OK before and doesn't now, then that is the most likely problem.

---

