---
title: "[SOLVED] No swap disk?"
date: 2008-10-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-10-06
I recently booted off of a linux live CD to resize and move some partitions.  

On one of the disks, I had to move my swap partition to the end of the disk (rather than the middle).  To do so, I had to "swapoff" of it using gparted.

The problem is, now each time I boot my machine I have to "swapon" to it in gparted.  And even after I do that, it seems to be using zero swap according to KDE System Guard.

How can I set this up so it's automatically used for swap again?  More importantly, how can I make it actually USE the disk at all?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-10-06
Please post output from:
```
sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab
```

> More importantly, how can I make it actually USE the disk at all?
You won't need swap until you run out of RAM. Generally, if you have a lot of RAM and aren't seeing "out of memory" messages, you don't even need it. Of course, unless you're hurting for disk space, it's a good idea to have it.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2008-10-06
In addition to those commands you shouls also run "blkid" to get the correct UUID for your new swap (since moving the partition means that it's UUID has changed).

Most likely this is just a case of getting the correct UUID and the editing /etc/fstab to use it..

---

### Post by Patb on 2008-10-06
> **Temüjin said:**
> You won't need swap until you run out of RAM. Generally, if you have a lot of RAM and aren't seeing "out of memory" messages, you don't even need it.
...Unless you want to hibernate.  Then you will definitely need a swap space - about twice the size of your RAM is the rough rule of thumb. 

This is just a comment for completeness. Temüjin and McDuck have your problem covered if you post that output they've requested.

Cheers, Pat.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-10-06
> ...Unless you want to hibernate. Then you will need a swap space - about twice the size of your RAM is the rough rule of thumb.

Double the ram does not really apply any more.   After 1 GB swap, you should get more memory if the swap is not enough.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-10-06
> **Temüjin said:**
> Please post output from:
```
sudo fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab
```





This is the disk in question:

```
Disk /dev/sdb: 74.3 GB, 74355769344 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9039 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xcd13cd13

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1        8659    69553386   83  Linux
/dev/sdb3            8660        9039     3052350   82  Linux swap / Solaris

```

FSTAB:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=de1e5128-a408-4aad-a21d-810ccbea6373 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb3 :
UUID=adde5f6d-06e4-4eb6-9177-58bfdfc3f505 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/500G\040DATA ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-10-06
> **mcduck said:**
> In addition to those commands you shouls also run "blkid" to get the correct UUID for your new swap (since moving the partition means that it's UUID has changed).

Most likely this is just a case of getting the correct UUID and the editing /etc/fstab to use it..

```
sudo blkid
/dev/sda1: UUID="366CBA8A6CBA4481" LABEL="500G DATA" TYPE="ntfs"
/dev/sdb1: UUID="de1e5128-a408-4aad-a21d-810ccbea6373" TYPE="ext3"
/dev/sdb3: TYPE="swap" UUID="a4fb68a4-b153-412f-a2aa-42c5697f520e"
/dev/sdc5: UUID="23b7d439-cffd-4f47-b5b0-a3bebb8fdf29" TYPE="ext3"

```

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-10-06
Excellent. As mcduck pointed out, your swap partition has changed UUID.
So:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
Replace
> UUID=adde5f6d-06e4-4eb6-9177-58bfdfc3f505
with
> UUID=a4fb68a4-b153-412f-a2aa-42c5697f520e

---

### Post by mcduck on 2008-10-07
Yeah, that should do the trick.

When you have done that, reboot and check if the swap is detectd (with "free -m", for example). If it isn't, run "sudo mkswap /dev/sdb3" and then "sudo swapon -a". After that the swap should work automatically on every boot.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-10-09
Ok, I made the change, but just wanted to note this before the reboot...

```
$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2017       1099        917          0         32        477
-/+ buffers/cache:        589       1427
Swap:            0          0          0


```

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-10-09
So I guess that worked?

```
free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          2017        691       1325          0         15        341
-/+ buffers/cache:        334       1682
Swap:         2980          0       2980

```

---

### Post by RRFarFar on 2008-10-11
Hie 
Just in continuation of your problem.(I will post this problem in a new thread as well so people could help me.)
I get something similiar here, and honestly saying it drives me mad.

It was just an ordinary simple usage of gparted. I booted livecd, terminal and "sudo gparted". I wanted to resize my /home. Since it is on a separate partition I thought it would go all right. So I resized it, taking 4.5 gigs from it for another linux distro which I wanted to dual boot with Ubuntu. So the system went crazy after that.
I think my swap is not working now 
Here is my fstab

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda5
UUID=3d68cfad-468a-4788-8d99-bf364257d3c9 /               ext3    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda1
UUID=1cc2f322-0bed-4719-a97e-467f879314f4 /home           ext3    relatime        0       2
# /dev/sda6
UUID=2bf6acb3-00a1-4814-97a6-27c7ba0667e0 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

```

"sudo blkid" agve this
```

/dev/sda1: UUID="1cc2f322-0bed-4719-a97e-467f879314f4" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="3d68cfad-468a-4788-8d99-bf364257d3c9" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sda6: TYPE="swap" UUID="2bf6acb3-00a1-4814-97a6-27c7ba0667e0" 
/dev/sdb1: UUID="1C08A96A08A9441C" LABEL="ARCHIVE NTFS" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda3: UUID="ad116df0-5a1c-406e-a8b6-87224562e773" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 

```

GPARTED shows me the following, please see pictures below. Sorry it is in Russian, but anyway it shows the most important info - the structure of my partitions.

Trully saying my system was absolutely fine before that, but I am thinking of reinstalling things, since when I boot my laptop Ubuntu does not start normally, instead it goes very slowwly, and some things do not boot at all, other applications can start after 5 minutes. For instance I cannot press forward and back button in firefox, also there no bookmarks in FF. By the way, when gparted finished resizing my /home it reported to have successfully finished all operations. I think I am hacing a data loss here. Am I right?

---

### Post by RRFarFar on 2008-10-11
SOLVED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
All right, I guess I fixed the problem. There was no data loss, just the lost table of files on my /home partition. I do not know why ubuntu looses table while gparted is resizing partitions, but everything seems to work right now.
I used testdisk to recover table.

```

sudo apt-get install testdisk
sudo testdisk

```

Just go through all the initial steps, like making or not making log; choice of hardrives; partition table type (mine was Intel), Analyse and then write the table which was found by Testdisk to your hardrive. That solved my problem. 
I see in conky right now that my swap is used by the system again. 

Like the old Russian proverb says (paraphrase): everything is good, what has a happy ending)))))))))))

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-10-12
So just to be clear, your disks and partitions appeared correctly under all of the utilities, but you felt you didn't have a swap partition because it wasn't using it?

---

### Post by RRFarFar on 2008-10-13
> **kooldino said:**
> So just to be clear, your disks and partitions appeared correctly under all of the utilities, but you felt you didn't have a swap partition because it wasn't using it?


Yes, they did. Indeed conky was showing that swap is not used byt the system. Honestly I do not if that was really truth, but right now conky shows ordinary swap usage.
Testdisk is great application by the way
You problem was a bit different I suppose; you lost the correct uuid. Right?

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-10-13
Correct

---

### Post by Piraja on 2009-01-15
Moved to a [new thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6554629") (my problem's neither related to Kubuntu nor solved).

---

### Post by Piraja on 2009-01-15
See my preceding post.

---

