---
title: "13.04 Compiz, Unity freeze ups?"
date: 2013-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by georgelappies on 2013-04-25
Hi all

Is anybody else experiencing random freeze ups in 13.04? I already had three so far on a previous stable system. I can still move the mouse but clicking on anything doesn't work and no keyboard input works.

Only way to get the system back is to hold in the power button for 5 seconds until the machine shuts down completely (bad for the hardware)...

---

### Post by georgelappies on 2013-04-26
Am I the only one experiencing these crashes?

I get a kernel panic now every so often as well...

---

### Post by ppjdee on 2013-04-26
Don't think I had that, but installing ati gfx drivers makes my comp not boot :/

i really hate typing on my phone...

---

### Post by NikiNfOuR on 2013-04-26
Mine freezed twice or thrice after the install... It seems the Unity is on the resource hungry side!! It uses 1.2Gb At the moment in ma system with a lot of processing power.... Definitely heavier than the GNOME-Shell.... When frozen or having any errror installing something just leave it as such and most of the time the system comes back to full response after a long pause... It worked for me... :)

---

### Post by georgelappies on 2013-04-26
Good to know mine is not an isolated case (NikiNfOuR sorry that you also experience this). But yes, compiz and Xorg at times starts to consume massive amounts of RAM and CPU power. And at times then freezes up completely.

I have not tried to 'leave' it till it comes back before, will give that a go. How long do you typically have to leave it for though?

Is there any files or logs we can look in and provide to the devs to help troubleshoot this issue?

---

### Post by georgelappies on 2013-04-26
> **ppjdee said:**
> Don't think I had that, but installing ati gfx drivers makes my comp not boot :/

i really hate typing on my phone...

Unfortunately I also have an ati display card in my laptop (never ever will I get amd, ati or Broadcom components in any of my machines).

Mine doesn't lock up but I get the AMD blip in the bottom right of the screen (even though according to the AMD site my chipset should be supported by the drivers). I am able to remove that via the shell script on the wiki.

However I experience severe graphical glitches and tearing when using the ATI driver. There has been some major serious regressions in the last two Ubuntu releases with regards to graphical stability...

---

### Post by NikiNfOuR on 2013-04-26
Am having an Nvidia 650M in ma lappy, since there is bumblebee to my needs i am happy :) But compared to my 3 and a half battery backup on my ubuntu 12.10 gnome remix edition this is even lower !! just 2 and a half hours and maybe 3!! It can't be my lappy cos it showed better and is showing better in GNOME!! So am going to open a thread with ma to do lists too.....

---

### Post by jediknight9999 on 2013-04-26
I'm having the same freeze ups on my desktop. I have a nvidia card. I am using Xubuntu 13.04

---

### Post by Jorick on 2013-04-27
Yesterday I did a clean installation of 13.04 and so far I've had two lockups. In earlier versions (Ubuntu 12.10 and 13.04 beta) I've had the same problem several times and it's really annoying to say the least.

If Unity (or whatever is freezing) freezes and won't respond to any mouse or keyboard input the best thing to do is switch to console mode (Ctrl+Alt+F1 usually works for me), restart LightDM (sudo service lightdm restart) and go back to the Desktop mode (Ctrl+Alt+F7) so you can login and continue with what you were doing. To me this looks like a better and safer way then doing a hard reset...

---

### Post by flakrat on 2013-04-30
> **Jorick said:**
> Yesterday I did a clean installation of 13.04 and so far I've had two lockups. In earlier versions (Ubuntu 12.10 and 13.04 beta) I've had the same problem several times and it's really annoying to say the least.

If Unity (or whatever is freezing) freezes and won't respond to any mouse or keyboard input the best thing to do is switch to console mode (Ctrl+Alt+F1 usually works for me), restart LightDM (sudo service lightdm restart) and go back to the Desktop mode (Ctrl+Alt+F7) so you can login and continue with what you were doing. To me this looks like a better and safer way then doing a hard reset...
I'm experiencing the freezing on my Dell Latitude E6510 laptop with an i5 and nVidia GPU (01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GT218M [NVS 3100M] (rev a2))

This happened after upgrading from 12.10 and after a clean install.

I mostly (always?) have it lock up when I bring up one of the overlay screens (example, ALT F2, or Windows key). It doesn't do it all of the time.

Every freeze with the exception of 2 (experienced at least 10) required me to hard reset the computer. Even CTRL ALT F2 wouldn't work. The 2 exceptions, the desktop flashed, and then reloaded back to my running workspace (didn't have to login) followed by the bug submit wizard displaying.

---

### Post by alexfpms on 2013-05-18
I'm experiencing the same problem on my desktop PC. I have the nVidia GeForce GTX 680 with the latest drivers 319.17 but it freezes randomly from time to time. So when it happens i open tty (Ctrl+Alt+F7) and run: DESKTOP=:0.0 unity --replace
It is not the best solution but at least i can save my open files correctly without loosing my work.

---

### Post by dwcramer on 2013-05-26
I was having the same problem (xorg crashing freezing after a few minutes if I'd opened a couple of apps). I solved it by switching to the proprietary NVIDIA drivers. No more crashes. 

[IMG]http://feline.thingbag.net/nvidiadriver.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by dwcramer on 2013-05-26
Btw., (in case that screen shot goes away): Open Software & Updates, click Additional Drivers, I selected "Using NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library from nvidia-304-updates (proprietary)." That was my second try after trying "nvidia-310 (proprietary, tested)" which didn't work.

Also, I'm on a Dell E6510.

---

### Post by vasiauvi on 2013-06-01
The same freezes I also get on Ubuntu 13.04 on DELL Inspirion, with Nvidia optimus.  The only think that I have to make is to log-out and log-in back. I really don't know why this is happening. 
Also compiz is not using a lot of PCU or RAM.

---

### Post by dimon on 2013-06-26
Just wanted to add a 'me too'. I'm going to try with the Nouveau driver instead of the "nvidia-310 (proprietary, tested)" driver to see if it makes a difference. Thanks for the inspiration, dwcramer.

---

### Post by rca-zero on 2013-09-26
I had experienced this annoying bug several times. When this happens, I usually call terminal with ctrl+alt+F1 and kill the session, losing all open windows. Restart lightdm seems to be a better workaround.

I don't use any proprietary video driver.

---

### Post by rdJB8wd on 2013-09-26
Yes. I had freeze-ups with Unity (and MATE) when using the Nvidia 3.13 drivers (via Synaptis). By uninstalling and returning the the NVidia Current (3.04), the problem seemed to resolve. The freeze in my case was truly a frozen screen with a weird pixellated effect about 2CM square where the mouse pointer would be.

Using a Nvidia 760 card.

---

### Post by rdJB8wd on 2013-09-26
How do you get the Additional Drivers to show? I have been puzzled by this for over a month. I use a Nvidia 760 card and the Nvidia Current drivers via Ubuntu Software Center. But I see nothing on the Additional Drivers tab. Do I need to do something else to get the Additional Drivers to show?

---

### Post by oneone on 2013-10-29
Hi,

I experience the same problem running 12.04, 13.04, 13.10 amd64. 

I have a Lenovo T510 (43494JG) with NVS3100M graphics (only) that crashes occasionally using openGL (unity/compiz) on nouveau and the nvidia driver does not work at all. Sometimes after a crash it is possible to go to text console and restart lightdm, sometimes the entire system dies with kernel panic. Another problem is standby mode, it mostly will not wakeup, the screen stays black/kernel panic.

On another notebook E310 with intel HD graphics the same setup works without problems.

---

### Post by oneone on 2013-12-04
Hi there,

might your issue be the same as the one mentioned in [thread=2131714]Xorg crash[/thread]?

---

### Post by dansail on 2014-05-11
I have also encountered this problem.  I do not know the fix, but my temporary workaround is to go to xterm, run a 'top' session to look for the Process ID (PID) for compiz and kill it.  The killing of that PID then stops the menu bar feature, but the rest of the desktop remains. While still inside the xterm, I restart compiz. This time it starts up with a whole handful of error reports back, but everything is normal after that. I still do know know what caused the 'compiz' to occupy all of the resources in the startup sequence, but a restart seems to end the problem.

---

### Post by ben-schweitzer on 2014-05-11
13.04 is end of life you know.  There is no more support

---

