---
title: "16.04.2 Ubuntu Cinnamon Desktop not working correctly"
date: 2017-08-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by woo10jw on 2017-08-04
Been using Ubuntu 10 years...can’t seem to figure this one out. Presently using Ubuntu 14.04 with Cinnamon Desktop 3.4 installed, have company SSBC folder on desktop with about 3000 files in it. Contents: libreoffice writer, spreadsheets, .pdf, .jpg, .png and etc.
Constantly using, adding and deleting files, everything works the way I expect it to.
  
Installed Ubuntu 16.04.2 with Cinnamon 3.4 desktop. At boot SSBC folder on Desktop top left, it will open the 1st time I click it...but when I close the folder it moves to bottom right and will not open again. I can only access it by opening Home folder > Desktop > SSBC or Menu > Files Icon > Desktop > SSBC. If I boot into Unity everything works as expected, only screws up in Cinnamon. Been using Cinnamon since 12.04, l like it.
Originally installed 16.04.1 didn’t work, thought I’d wait, downloaded 16.04.2 two different times and installed, still the same.
I would like to install 16.04 but I need my company folder to open and work like 14.04 from the desktop.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-08-04
Is the SSBC folder itself sitting in the Desktop as a sub-folder or is it just a shortcut or link?

---

### Post by woo10jw on 2017-08-04
The folder is on the desktop...right click on desktop> create new folder SSBC> 9 folders inside SSBC with all my customer files in it's appropriate folder.

---

