---
title: ".run files"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by reisada on 2010-10-11
Hello , ive installed ubuntu today, as i need to use it for university. Ive never used it before and im having a small problem that i would like some help with.
Ive downloaded the game tremulous, and it had a file called tremulous-gpp1-installer.run .
However i double click it and nothing happens? How can i solve this problem please?
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by forcecore on 2010-10-11
Use right click then select Properties then permissions and select Allow executing file as program.

---

### Post by rizzeh on 2010-10-11
you can install it through apt-get rather than manually. Just open the terminal and input command:
```
sudo apt-get install tremulous
```

---

### Post by reisada on 2010-10-11
i used  
sudo apt-get install tremulous 



And now it says reading package tree-... ready
readiing status info ready
 but then it says impossible to find package - nameoffile  ???

---

### Post by forcecore on 2010-10-11
Don't know i never install games in system and use games from secondary drive. Did you try .run installer?

---

### Post by reisada on 2010-10-11
I dont know absolutely nothing about Ubuntu, so ive not tried anithing any of you guys havent said...dont know what to do, please help

---

### Post by bionicdude on 2010-10-11
I would say that there's a possibility that if you've downloaded the file to an NTFS partition the permissions and bit settings don't really work, so copy it to an EXT partition (hopefully your home dir)

open a terminal
cd to the directory that your tremulous-gpp1-installer.run file is in
then..
```
chmod +x tremulous-gpp1-installer.run
```
This should add the ability to execute.


then
```
sudo ./tremulous-gpp1-installer.run
```

This should execute the installer as the super user (it will ask for your admin password) providing that the user you are logged in as has that ability.

Fingers crossed....

---

### Post by gandaran on 2010-10-11
> **reisada said:**
> i used  
sudo apt-get install tremulous 



And now it says reading package tree-... ready
readiing status info ready
 but then it says impossible to find package - nameoffile  ???
run the update package list command first
```
sudo apt-get update
```
then run that install command again, should work now.
theres no need to download that game, always look in the ubuntu software center first for any application you want to install.

---

### Post by rizzeh on 2010-10-12
i agree with gandaran,
always try to use repositories rather than manual install from downloaded file - saves headaches later with system maintenance and updates.

---

