---
title: "10.04 &amp; Thunderbird 3.1.20"
date: 2012-04-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AZinOH on 2012-04-07
I've been using the Update Manager regularly ever since installing 10.04. Thunderbird is now giving me a message that this version will be obsolete after 24 April 2012. Does this mean that I'm not connected to a repository that would update it?   If yes, which repository do I need to add? Thanks for any assistance.

AZ

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-04-07
yeah you have to read something 

[http://trunk.planet.mozillamessaging.com/](http://trunk.planet.mozillamessaging.com/)

after opening that link , type ctrl+f and search for "no longer". in that search the fourth one will tells you why that message coming to you . 

hope that helps :)

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2012-04-07
See:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/+bug/973877](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/+bug/973877)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/+bug/972840](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunderbird/+bug/972840)

Hopefully that means that thunderbird will be updated in the 10.04 repositories soon.

---

### Post by Karlchen on 2012-04-07
Hello, AZinOH.
> which repository do I need to add? The official Ubuntu repositories have not bothered to provide current Thunderbird releases to Lucid Lynx users for *centuries*, I'd say.
This is why I came across Nanotube's Ubuntuzilla one fine day: ***[Current Firefox and/or Thunderbird releases via Ubuntuzilla]("http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/ubuntuzilla/index.php?title=Main_Page#Installation")***
Have been using the Ubuntuzilla packages since the Karmic Koala era (the version before Lucid Lynx). The original Mozilla Thunderbird edition, received via Nanotube's repository, has always worked correctly here.

HTH,
Karl

---

### Post by 4partee on 2012-04-20
> **Karlchen said:**
> Hello, AZinOH.
 The official Ubuntu repositories have not bothered to provide current Thunderbird releases to Lucid Lynx users for *centuries*, I'd say.
....
HTH,
Karl

Why?

---

### Post by Man_Beach on 2012-04-21
> **4partee said:**
> Why?

Exactly. Probably can't be bothered with 10.04 LTS when they have 12.04 LTS to worry about? It's not as if Thunderbird will suddenly stop working in 3 days' time, is it?

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2012-04-24
Thunderbird 11.0.1 finally showed up in the available upgrades.

I'll wait for some other people to try it first, though. :)

---

### Post by techsupport on 2012-04-24
> **AZinOH said:**
> I've been using the Update Manager regularly ever since installing 10.04. Thunderbird is now giving me a message that this version will be obsolete after 24 April 2012. Does this mean that I'm not connected to a repository that would update it?   If yes, which repository do I need to add? Thanks for any assistance.

AZ

You are approaching EOL (End Of Life). That means what it says. Time to install a new disto of Ubuntu again.   Here is a really swell walkthrough to get that done:

[http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2012/03/09/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-12-04-lts-aka-precise-pangolin/](http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2012/03/09/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-12-04-lts-aka-precise-pangolin/)

If you don't upgrade, don't say we didn't warn ya. ;)   No more reinstallations of apps that get hosed accidentally. No more updates. No more security updates.  Sad billygoat face. Do it right. Be safe. 
:guitar:

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2012-04-24
> **techsupport said:**
> You are approaching EOL (End Of Life). That means what it says. Time to install a new disto of Ubuntu again.

Not true. Ubuntu 10.04 is supported until April 2013.

---

### Post by techsupport on 2012-04-24
> **Dave_L said:**
> Not true. Ubuntu 10.04 is supported until April 2013.
Only if you have Ubuntu **10.04.3** LTS on your system.

Do you have the thunderbird PPA installed yet? You should if you are going to stick with 10.04.03 until EOL.

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2012-04-24
You didn't read my posts above, did you, "techsupport"? There's no need to use the PPA. You're not helping anyone by providing misinformation.

---

### Post by techsupport on 2012-04-24
> **Dave_L said:**
> You didn't read my posts above, did you, "techsupport"? There's no need to use the PPA. You're not helping anyone by providing misinformation.

If you wanted to download the latest cutting edge version of Thunderbird you would want to use the PPA.  That would be the most updated version. Isn't that what you wanted? If not, I beg your pardon. I thought you wanted to update Thunderbird. I always do it through the PPA. Maybe you do it differently.

If you change your mind the Thunderbird PPA is down this list:

[http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/12/31/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-10-04-3-lucid-lts/](http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/12/31/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-10-04-3-lucid-lts/)

Cheers!

---

### Post by Buntu Bunny on 2012-04-25
Hurray! Thunderbird 11.0.1 popped up on Update Manager this morning! So glad to be rid of the obsolete version.

---

### Post by lemuriaX on 2012-04-25
Me too until I upgraded and now have very high CPU usage by Thunderbird, anyone else having issues with the new version in Lucid?

---

### Post by Zill on 2012-04-25
> **techsupport said:**
> If you wanted to download the latest cutting edge version of Thunderbird you would want to use the PPA.  That would be the most updated version. Isn't that what you wanted? If not, I beg your pardon. I thought you wanted to update Thunderbird. I always do it through the PPA. Maybe you do it differently...
The OP did not ask for the "latest cutting edge version of Thunderbird"! He/she simply indicated that the current version of Thunderbird was advising it would be obsolete after 24 April 2012.

As the OP has been regularly updating Ubuntu 10.04 then this should automatically be at the 10.04.3 LTS build standard.  As Dave_L advised, this release is fully supported until [April 2013]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases").

The official 10.04 lucid-updates repository has now been updated to upgrade Thunderbird from v3.1.20 to v11.0.1.  Note that the Thunderbird PPA is *not* needed to upgrade Thunderbird to v11.0.1.

---

### Post by dylbud on 2012-04-25
Hello everybody,

Related to this discussion, how would one find out whether he has 10.04 or 10.04.3 currently installed?

Thanks!

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-04-25
if everything is upto date on the system he/she has 10.04.4

[FONT=Courier New]~$ cat /etc/lsb-release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=10.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=lucid
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 10.04.4 LTS"[/FONT]

when TB 3.X become unsupported 11.1 (or 12) should popup in the update manager
if you want to upgrade now 
[FONT="Courier New"]sudo apt-add-repository ppa:mozillateam/thunderbird-stable;sudo apu-get update[/FONT]
then open the update manager

---

### Post by Ian Hewitt on 2012-04-26
Hello,

Thunderbird 11.01 was installed yesterday via system updates - it worked ok initially but now hangs the system with lots of disk activity. I get the sense that it might be building a big index file??? I have left the system for 30 mins with the disk light flashing but had to resort to shutting down.

Not sure what Thunderbird PPA is.

Any advice welcome.

Ian

---

### Post by Zill on 2012-04-26
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> ...if you want to upgrade now 
[FONT="Courier New"]sudo apt-add-repository ppa:mozillateam/thunderbird-stable;sudo apu-get update[/FONT]
then open the update manager
Not necessary.  [This PPA]("https://launchpad.net/~mozillateam/+archive/thunderbird-stable") is for v11.0.1 which is already included in the official 10.04 lucid-updates repository.

Users of Ubuntu LTS (Long Term Support) releases often want the stability of packages that change only rarely.  The use of PPAs and backports, and the associate frequent updates, can reduce stability for LTS users.

---

### Post by lemuriaX on 2012-04-26
Thunderbird 11.01 is running great for me now on Lucid, it does seem that it needed to do some extra work for a while (perhaps building the index file -- not sure) which was resulting in high CPU usage at first.

---

### Post by techsupport on 2012-04-26
> **Zill said:**
> The OP did not ask for the "latest cutting edge version of Thunderbird"! 

Well then they can roll it back with PPA Purge in Terminal.  Relax. If you are running 10.04 and you want to have a more updated version there are two different PPAs Thunderbird users can install. Stable and Cutting Edge. Both of them are updated more frequently than the Ubuntu repositories when it comes to the latest update packages for Thunderbird. Waiting around for Ubuntu to provide you with the latest Thunderbird updates, when there are two PPAs intended for that role is why they have been reporting problems with Thunderbird in Ubuntu 10.04 to begin with. That was my suggestion, and both suggestions are easily reversed if they are unhappy with PPA purge at the command line.):P If a user wants the latest updates, sometimes you need to have the appropriate PPAs installed as well as Ubuntu repositories.  It depends on the software. With thunderbird you.  Maybe the Ubuntu repos have the latest version right now, but not for long. If you don't have the stable PPA installed you will be left behind again.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-04-26
> **Ian Hewitt said:**
> Hello,

Thunderbird 11.01 was installed yesterday via system updates - it worked ok initially but now hangs the system with lots of disk activity. I get the sense that it might be building a big index file??? I have left the system for 30 mins with the disk light flashing but had to resort to shutting down.

Not sure what Thunderbird PPA is.

Any advice welcome.

Ianmust be the due to the huge change from the previous version, i updated through every version in the middle and i am not having any issues

---

### Post by Zill on 2012-04-27
> **techsupport said:**
> ...Waiting around for Ubuntu to provide you with the latest Thunderbird updates, when there are two PPAs intended for that role is why they have been reporting problems with Thunderbird in Ubuntu 10.04 to begin with...
The only "problem" the OP reported was that Thunderbird was advising it would shortly be obsolete. Appropriately, the official Ubuntu repositories were duly updated with a later version of Thunderbird.

Users who want the stability of a LTS release are well advised to stick to the official repositories IMHO.  The use of PPAs and/or backports *may* cause unnecessary problems to a working system.

---

### Post by Ian Hewitt on 2012-04-29
Hello,

My thunderbird 11.01 has just finished doing it's disk intensive stuff after about 28 hours of processing and is now working fine.. I think that I need to increase the memory in my machine (currently 512Mb) as the system monitor was showing 97% usage.. during the slow periods and is usually about 77%.

My system has been updated regularly - it's a big relief to get my inbox back.. ..the open access to the operating system and Linux community mean that it has been much less stressful than during similar episodes with Windows. Thanks for being there.

May think about the 12.1 LTS upgrade when I've calmed down a bit..

Ian

---

### Post by Zill on 2012-04-29
> **Ian Hewitt said:**
> ...My thunderbird 11.01 has just finished doing it's disk intensive stuff after about 28 hours of processing and is now working fine.. I think that I need to increase the memory in my machine (currently 512Mb) as the system monitor was showing 97% usage.. during the slow periods and is usually about 77%...
Thanks for the report - 28 hours does seem a very long time to me!  Maybe you just have a *lot* of mail. ;-)

> **Ian Hewitt said:**
> ...May think about the 12.1 LTS upgrade when I've calmed down a bit.
I presume you mean the new 12.04 LTS release as there is no 12.1!  However, with only 512MB of RAM, I would not recommend upgrading to Ubuntu 12.04.  The [minimum spec]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements") has been 1GB for some time now and, with all the new bells and whistles, I think you would really struggle with 512MB.

If you cannot increase the RAM substantially then I suggest moving to a release with lower system requirements, such as [Lubuntu]("http://lubuntu.net/").

Either way, there is no rush.  Ubuntu 10.04 LTS (Lucid) is fully supported until [April 2013]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases"). :-)

---

### Post by steve7777777 on 2012-05-08
I have a similar issue as the OP. My problem is I'm at 10.10, when I installed back in the day I had no idea what "LTS" meant, lol. I do now! The only problem with the Thunderbird 3 are vague references to security concerns. It's not going to suddenly break and my 10.10 will no longer be updated.

I have 12.04 running in Virtual Box, Unity is starting to grow on me so I may just do a fresh install and kill two birds with one stone.

---

