---
title: "1.4GB Corrupt File - Can't Delete...?"
date: 2006-06-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shinygerbil on 2006-06-11
Hi all (sorry for posting this twice),

I have a strange problem. On my second partition (which is mounted on the folder "files" inside my home folder), there is a file called console_log.txt which is 1431655765 bytes (yes that's 1.4GB!!) with the owner 1431655765 and group 1431655765. According to ls:
```
?r-x-wSr-x 21845 1431655765 1431655765 1431655765 2015-05-15 03:09 console_log.txt
```
(the console_log.txt is highlighted in brown)

So it appears to be an unknown file, possibly something corrupt. I have a feeling it was generated when I was trying to download a >2GB torrent file using utorrent through wine but cancelled halfway through. Perhaps this is the downloaded data that's been corrupted in some way, but whatever it is, the problem is simple.

How do I get rid of it? It won't even let me do it as super user. I've tried regular deleting and shredding, changing permissions, nothing works!

Any help would be much appreciated. (it feels weird to be asking questions again ;) )

Thanks in advance

Steve

---

### Post by JoWilly on 2006-06-11
Have you tried an fsck, to check if there is an error on the filesystem ?

---

### Post by Skye on 2006-06-11
It sounds like you've only tried to remove the file from the gui, so, after running the fsck, try this (in terminal):

```
sudo rm -rf /path/to/file
```

If it works, great.  If not, paste any output that come up here.

---

### Post by blackjack6.21.91 on 2006-06-11
can you edit the file?

---

### Post by shinygerbil on 2006-06-13
Hi guys, I ran fsck and there were a LOT of errors. After I ran fsck, I mounted the hard drive only to find that there was no longer a file console_log.txt. Looks like problem solved :) Thanks for your help!

Steve

---

