---
title: "Login screen resolution too high"
date: 2009-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by NTpspE on 2009-05-16
Hello, 
My login screen's resolution is way too high, the name box being at the bottom right of my monitor.
I saw in a post about screen resolution this guide:

[http://sahabm.blogspot.com/2009/02/increase-screen-resolutions-ubuntu-710.html](http://sahabm.blogspot.com/2009/02/increase-screen-resolutions-ubuntu-710.html)

But i keep getting:

> xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20090516110153

I was planning on removing all resolutions apart from 1280x800 (the one that works)

Any help?

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-16
Open Terminal, type in:
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

and post contents here.

---

### Post by NTpspE on 2009-05-16
I've done things the xorg.conf way...
everything went horribly wrong, it ended up only being able to boot in safe graphics mode, which flickered all the time. 
Luckily i had backed up my xorg.conf file, but i dont think it'll work.
Here it is anyway:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "uk"
    Option        "XkbVariant"    "@'"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver        "synaptics"
    Option        "SendCoreEvents"    "true"
    Option        "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
    Option        "Protocol"        "auto-dev"
    Option        "HorizEdgeScroll"    "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-16
Make the Screen section of xorg.conf looks like this:
```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Then, save and reboot and you should be fine :)

---

### Post by NTpspE on 2009-05-16
Thats what i did last time, and it ended up only being able to boot in safe gfx mode :(

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-16
> **NTpspE said:**
> Thats what i did last time, and it ended up only being able to boot in safe gfx mode :(

Enter this in terminal and post output here:
```
xrandr | grep maximum
```

---

### Post by NTpspE on 2009-05-16
okay, i got 
> Screen 0: minimum 640 x 480, current 1280 x 800, maximum 1920 x 1200

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-16
Could you post the model and brand of your monitor?

---

### Post by NTpspE on 2009-05-17
How would i go about finding that on ubuntu?

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-17
> **NTpspE said:**
> How would i go about finding that on ubuntu?

You can't, but you probably got a sticker on the back of your monitor which has those details :)

---

### Post by NTpspE on 2009-05-17
Umm, the sticker on the back of my monitor says "ubuntu"
since i put it there xD

Its a laptop, and there isnt no monitor sticker

---

