---
title: "GRUB absolutely refuses to cooperate - ATTN: EXPERTS!"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brucewestfall on 2010-05-03
Any GRUB experts out there, please take a moment and see if you can resolve this.

I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04.  All seemed OK til something locked it up, so I rebooted.  Since then, the only way I can use Ubuntu at all is using the LiveCD.  I have installed and reinstalled 9.10, 10.04, Debian 5.04 with Debian being the only one that sort of works.  No internet since the wireless card will not install...

Grub says
Error: You need to install the kernel first

So I use another computer, go online and look up way more than I ever cared to know about Grub and even use the grub> prompt.

I have tried doing the 'root=(hd0,1)' and other related commands, but when I do 'linux vmliuz.xxxxxx' - and I use the tab key for completion, it says 'cannot read file'.

Certainly I cannot have 2 different corrupted kernels in 2 different locations... Right now I have 10.04 on /dev/sda1 and 9.10 at /dev/sda6

I'm almost tempted to install an Ubuntu 4 disc I found.

Sure would be great to have my smoothly running 9.10 back - Please give me some other ideas! ](*,)

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-03
Which version of grub are you using?

---

### Post by brucewestfall on 2010-05-03
1.97 I believe, which from what I gather means it's GRUB2

Running 64 bit if that helps.   The drive everything is on is a SATA drive.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-03
I'm not much use when it comes to grub2, I'm afraid. But can you boot a Live CD, mount your root partition, and post here what ever is in its /boot/grub/grub.cfg file?

NOTE: It's important that you don't report the Live CD's /boot/grub/grub.cfg file, that's no use to us, the actual file will be (after you have mounted the root partition) at /media/<DISKID>/boot/grub/grub.cfg

---

### Post by brucewestfall on 2010-05-03
One grub.cfg...coming up!

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,6)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bccb869f-134d-41b7-9b45-a6fcc08e40c1
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	set quiet=1
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,6)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bccb869f-134d-41b7-9b45-a6fcc08e40c1
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=bccb869f-134d-41b7-9b45-a6fcc08e40c1 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,6)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bccb869f-134d-41b7-9b45-a6fcc08e40c1
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=bccb869f-134d-41b7-9b45-a6fcc08e40c1 ro single 
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Debian GNU/Linux (5.0.4) (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root=(hd0,1)
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 531a2011-12d1-4832-bd68-7c2be96036dc
	linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.26-2-amd64 root=/dev/sda1
	initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.26-2-amd64
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

---

### Post by rahilm on 2010-05-03
would you please cross-check that those files:
/boot/vmlinuz....
/boot/initrd.img.....
exist and you can open each initrd.img via the live-cd..
its just a package with another file in it.

I ask because that's how long i can help

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-03
Post this.
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-03
Looking at that grub.cfg, it seems that the default option uses kernel 2.6.31-14-generic which is seriously outdated and might have been removed during the upgrade. The latest kernel is 2.6.32-21-generic. So try modifying this part of the script:

```
### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
recordfail=1
if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
set quiet=1
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,6)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set bccb869f-134d-41b7-9b45-a6fcc08e40c1
[B]linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=bccb869f-134d-41b7-9b45-a6fcc08e40c1 ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic[/B]
}
```to this:
```
linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic  root=UUID=bccb869f-134d-41b7-9b45-a6fcc08e40c1 ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
```Double check that that you have that kernel first by running:
```
ls /media/<DISKID>/boot | grep vmlinuz-2.6
```If you don't have it, try using the next best.

If it works, and you manage to boot up, you'll probably need to some scripts to update the files used to generate grub.cfg, or else you might lose your changes the next time you update. I'm not sure what the scripts are though.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-03
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> Post this.
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Random advice without the full picture is harmful.

---

### Post by brucewestfall on 2010-05-04
Here is the results.txt file.  The 2 files are indeed there, I can view the initrd.img file, but not the vmlinuz.

WorMzy - That is the only kernel I have and it is the one I was using previously.  As I stated earier, using the grub prompt and auto completion, both of those files show up, but for some reason it cannot read the file.

I tried something else last night - I installed Debian 5 at /dev/sda1 with lilo on sda, then ubuntu 9.10 at /dev/sda6 with grub2 at sdb - that is the drive containing my thankfully still intact and accessible /home folder.

I can boot into Debian by having sda boot first, or do the same old thing with grub by booting up sdb first.  Sure would be nice to have 9.10 back so I can get some work done.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-04
goto synaptic: remove/purge ALL grub packages installed and remove menu.lst too if still there, then install grub-pc and grub-common, then:

sudo grub-mkconfig && update-grub

when asked, install grub2 onto the lucid mbr partition

more details if needed, following the link below

---

### Post by brucewestfall on 2010-05-04
The only problem there is that I don't have internet access on that machine til everything is set up and I can try to get the wireless card working.

I might just have to take the whole box to somewhere with a wire, so I can use apt-get without the complaints it has when there is no signal.

---

### Post by brucewestfall on 2010-05-05
Still have no idea what happened to grub, but here is my fix:

I got an old HD, installed a new 9.10 and made sure grub wrote to that disc and it works now.

Of course, what I really need is on the other HD, but I copied a bunch of things and can at least use my computer again.

Now to get wireless working....

---

### Post by brucewestfall on 2010-05-10
Ubuntu is absolved again!

The whole problem was HARDWARE.  I was so worried about Linux messing up, but it looks like it is something on the motherboard, or perhaps the BIOS itself.

My apologies to all who tried to help me.

Unfortunately, I must go apologize in another section of the forum, since there were several problems going on at the same time.

Please forgive me.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-10
No worries. As long as you got to the bottom of the problem, that's all that matters. :)

---

### Post by brucewestfall on 2010-05-10
I am thinking the problem was that GRUB needs several files in order to boot properly.  LILO being much simpler was perhaps able to find what it needed.

Other than a single hard drive crash about 6 years ago, this is my first hardware problem.

One more thing to keep in mind, I guess.

---

