---
title: "Password for harddrive?"
date: 2007-12-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Icemanyurt on 2007-12-01
Why do I have to always put in a password for my NTFS partition?

---

### Post by mellowd on 2007-12-01
Can you give a little more information? When are you getting this prompt? When, how?

---

### Post by Icemanyurt on 2007-12-01
Right, I guess that would be helpful...

When I open 'Computer' under places and I see all the different disks, I set up three partitions:
19.5 GB sda (NTFS for Vista), which I can always open
19.5 GB Filesystem for Ubuntu
71.8 GB : disk (NTFS for shared space for files), this is the one that has to have a password the first time I click on it to mount it.  Is there anyway to avoid this?

---

### Post by XVII on 2007-12-01
If it's the sudo password you have to enter, I think that you can change your account permissions to not have to do this.

---

### Post by Icemanyurt on 2007-12-01
I went in thought user and groups and saw nothing to that effect..

---

### Post by Icemanyurt on 2007-12-03
bump

---

### Post by pointone on 2007-12-03
Please post the contents of your fstab. Paste the output from the following command:

```
cat /etc/fstab
```

And, please post the ownership of the NTFS mount point. For example, if your NTFS partition is mounted at /media/share, paste the output from the following command:

```
ls /media/share/.. -l
```

---

### Post by Icemanyurt on 2007-12-03
fstab:

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=01f6c35b-d374-497f-ad95-4145ded82846 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=8C7C266B7C26506E /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=C729-C83B /windows vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=259c002f-b60c-4e8e-892a-fc0eb964ed51 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hda /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
 
> ls: /media/share/..: No such file or directory


But in a new development, it won't mount at all now with the error:
> Cannot mount volume. Unable to mount the volume,  mount_point cannot contain the following characters: newline, G_DIR_SEPARATOR (usually /) 

---

### Post by Icemanyurt on 2007-12-04
bump

---

### Post by pointone on 2007-12-04
Try changing:

```
UUID=8C7C266B7C26506E /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
```

To:

```
UUID=8C7C266B7C26506E /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,**user,**locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
```

---

