---
title: "12.10 'shutdown -r now' stalls"
date: 2013-06-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kwikness on 2013-06-12
I'm running **Ubuntu 12.10x64 Server** and when I try to do shutdown -r now, the system hangs. I've seen it hang with the last line of terminal output spitting something out about stopping Apache and another time, it hung up after spitting out something about synchronizing the hardware clock with the system clock.

I've seen a few posts reporting similar issues that seem to blame wireless network cards, which my server does not have. 

I'm comfortable using a Linux shell, but by no means am I a seasoned veteran. Therefore, I'm not sure what logs would be useful to post, but I would be glad to post any logs that would help in diagnosing the issue if someone could point me to them.

Thanks for your time.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-06-12
[COLOR=#000000]kwikness; Hi !
So what processes are running at shut down that have not completed ? 
Look at the running processes after all is shut down and just prior to the actual shut down:
```
ps aux
```
and "top" or a variant of:
```
top
```
would be good candidates to look at for what is not shutting down.

As you know, all files must be closed to preclude file system corruption @ shutdown. (upstart config file issues ?)
[/COLOR][INDENT=2][COLOR=#000000]
it's just a thing

[/COLOR][/INDENT]

---

### Post by kwikness on 2013-06-14
Bashing-om you were right. I wrote some crappy init.d scripts and the processes weren't terminating. Thanks broseph.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-06-14
[COLOR=#000000]kwikness; Hey 

Glad ya found it ! ...computers, a logical creation and logic prevails !

Please mark the thread as solved ..aids others and helps keep the forum tidy.

[/COLOR]Interim method:
> Go to the first post in your thread. Click on "Edit Post". Now click on the orange "Go Advanced" button. In the advanced editor change the prefix to "SOLVED". Now click on the orange "Save Changes" button.
[INDENT=2]
'till next time ...enjoy

[/INDENT]

---

