---
title: "12.04 update and 14.04 installation causing Dell computers to freeze at login"
date: 2014-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MJWhiteDerm on 2014-08-31
I run multiple versions of linux on different boxes, usually without problems, uncluding Ubuntu, Ubuntu Studio, Elementary OS, CentOS, and Debian.  I back everything up before I upgrade.  Upgrade to 14.04 LTS from 12.04 LTS seemed to go smoothly.  But every time I log in, it freezes with a blank wallpaper and/or wallpaper plus frozen mouse pointer, UNLESS I boot into the Rescue version.  This is on a Dell XPS 410 with 8 GB memory, Intel Core 2 CPU, 32 bit OS, graphics: VESA:G72 board, p280h18.

This same computer has a second hard drive and that drive can boot Debian 7 and run it with no graphics problems.

The other computer is a Dell Optiplex 740, running an AMD 64, with 5 GB of memory.  In one partition, it is running Ubuntu Studio with zero problems.  But in the initial partition, Ubuntu 12.04 was running fine, until the most recent update.   Now, I can only get the task bar (or anything more than a frozen mouse) if I boot in Rescue mode.

When I try to boot in either computer in the usual way, the system freezes.  About half the time, ctrl-alt-F1 will get me a terminal window and I can log into the CLI.  In the background, I am seeing a steady stream of messages about a compiz / Xorg problem.

I have tried:
sudo rm -fr ~/.cache/compizconfig -1
sudo rm -fr ~/.compiz
then 
sudo rm -fr ~/.Xauthority
sudo rm -fr ~/.xonfig/autostart

with no result.

Anyone have any insight?

Michael

---

### Post by MJWhiteDerm on 2014-09-07
In both cases, the problem was solved by making sure NVidia driver 304 was installed, because the problem was caused by the nouveau generic drivers.  More correctly, once the NVidia driver was invoked and nouveau driver was disabled, the problem stopped happening.

---

