---
title: "10.04 software raid5 recreation help needed"
date: 2010-08-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2010-08-15
Hey out there!

I just setup Ubuntu 10.04 as a dual boot on my system that also has 8.10.  On the old install, I have a four disk software RAID5 setup through MDADM.  Currently, the new install does not recognize it, which I realize is because the disks aren't bundled as a recognized RAID through MDADM yet.

How would I go about recreating this without losing the data on the array?  I could go through the steps I used (if I can find them) when I first set up the array, but I am very paranoid that I would go one step too far and wipe everything - therefor, I figured that I'd get input here first.

The four drives are currently:

/dev/sdb
/dev/sdc
/dev/sdd
/dev/sdf

Before, they were bundled in a RAID5 as /dev/md1 and then mounted at /media/raid

EDIT:  I *think* this is how I would do it:

```
sudo mdadm --create --verbose /dev/md1 --level=5 --raid-devices=4 /dev/sdb1 /dev/sdc1 /dev/sdd1 /dev/sdf
```

I'm just not 100% that this will create the array with the data intact.

Please help if you can.  It would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2010-08-16
Okay...scouring other forums and the man pages, I have deduced that I do *not* want to use the --create command, but rather the --assemble one.  

[URL="http://man-wiki.net/index.php/8:mdadm#ASSEMBLE_MODE"]
mdadm man link[/URL]

That having been said, I am still unclear on the syntax for this.  Is there anyone who can show me what I would need to enter, specifically in regards to what the "--scan" command is supposed to do for me?

---

