---
title: "Partition full while it isn't"
date: 2010-10-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dirtcrusher on 2010-10-09
So I reinstalled ubuntu on my laptop, but my partition is full while it isn't. I launch baobab, it says I got 4.48 GB free of 60GB while there are only 27GB files on my partition. Here is my partition set-up if it's useful:

-PQSERVICE 12GB free 3.52GB
-DRIVE 1 142GB free 25GB
-DRIVE 2 71GB free 28GB
-Ubuntu 63GB free 4.48GB ?????
-swap 1GB
-SWITCH 6.5GB free 6.3GB

I have a Acer Aspire 7730ZG laptop, I don't know what else I should give for information.
Please responds as soon as possible.

Dirtcrusher

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-10-09
I think a disk space error may be generated by Ubuntu when there is less than 5GB free space.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-10-09
Open System > Administration > System Monitor > File Systems. Is that saying the same as baobab?

Post the terminal output of:

```
df -h
```

---

### Post by dirtcrusher on 2010-10-09
It is saying the same as baobab. Here is the output of df -h:
```

Bestandssysteem       Grtte  Gebr Besch Geb% Aangekoppeld op
/dev/sda5              63G   59G  1,2G  99% /
none                  1,5G  336K  1,5G   1% /dev
none                  1,5G  128K  1,5G   1% /dev/shm
none                  1,5G  300K  1,5G   1% /var/run
none                  1,5G     0  1,5G   0% /var/lock
none                  1,5G     0  1,5G   0% /lib/init/rw
/dev/sda2             143G  118G   26G  83% /media/Harde_Schijf_1
/dev/sda3              72G   45G   28G  63% /media/Harde_Schijf_2
/dev/sda1              13G  9,5G  3,6G  73% /media/PQSERVICE
/dev/sda7             6,5G  188M  6,4G   3% /media/SWITCH

```

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-10-09
The ouput of df is showing a root partition 99% full. When it gets that full, the GUI apps may give misleading output.

Have a look in your trash, in ~/.local/share/Trash. There may be some stuff you haven't deleted.

Also, if you have ever used a root nautilus, there might be things in root's trash, which you can find at /root/.local/share/Trash/ but only if you have used a root nautilus for deletion. If you haven't, there won't be a /root/.local folder.

---

### Post by roccivic on 2010-10-09
Applications -> Accessorie -> Disk Usage Analyzer

This will help you trace the problem.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-10-09
There's info here on reclaiming hard disk space: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1122670](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1122670)

---

### Post by The Cog on 2010-10-09
I think that ext3/4 reserve around 5% of the disk space for user root only, to allow Linux to boot even when users use up all their disk space. That might explain your disk-full errors when there seems to be 5G free.

DF certainly thinks that there is 59G of data on the partition, so I wonder what makes you think there is only 27G used. This command will tell you how much is stored on your root partition and which directories it's in:
**sudo du -hx --max-depth=1 /**

---

### Post by dirtcrusher on 2010-10-10
Thanks to everyone, I found the problem: there were 30GB of files in the root's trash. Thanks for the fast reply, I really like this forum.

Dirtcrusher

---

