---
title: "(11.04) Shutdown, Reboot, Loggoff hangs with black screen."
date: 2011-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2011-05-01
I can't shutdown or reboot with out pressing the physical button on the case of my comp.
 It doesn't matter whether or not I use the command line or the gui  buttons, I get the same result. The screen goes black and the comp just  sits there doing nothing. I can't do anything but press the buttons on  the case. I don't really want to keep doing this, can any one help?

---

### Post by mahmoud200m on 2011-05-01
I have the same problem, but not all the time i think 80%,
i searched for any solution but no result, All I got that it might be related to the video card driver ( my card is ati 4760 )

---

### Post by Kevtopia on 2011-05-01
Yes I am having the same problems. Shutdown goes to black screen and hangs as does reboot. The only solution is to hold down the power key to shut the power off.
Any ideas on where to look for a solution would be helpful.

Asus G73 with am ATI 5870 video card

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2011-05-02
I'm running a nVidia GeForce 8600 GT. 

I also have 11.04 on my Aser Aspire 5315 Laptop and it doesn't have this problem.

I would really like to find a solution if I have to fix my system because of it not shutting down properly, I'll just re-install with an older version.

---

### Post by Kevtopia on 2011-05-02
OK I followed this thread 

[http://www.brighthub.com/computing/linux/articles/39504.aspx](http://www.brighthub.com/computing/linux/articles/39504.aspx)

[B]"acpi=off"  allows me to shutdown almost immediately.
[/B][B]"acpi=ht" did not work

the thread then says this "[/B]If acpi=off works and acpi=ht fails, then the issue is in the ACPI table parsing code itself, or perhaps the SMP code.[LEFT][COLOR=#000000]
I will keep digging unless anyone can offer another place to look, thanks.
[/COLOR][/LEFT]

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2011-05-04
As I'm sick of having to press the button to shutdown and I need it to work as I often schedule it shutdown while I'm not around, I've decided it re-install it with Mint. Haven't used mint since LM8 but from what I've seen of 10, I willing to give it ago. I'll be keeping my laptop on 11.04 though.

Hope you others find a solution. All the best.

---

### Post by Dai777 on 2011-05-04
> **Kevtopia said:**
> Yes I am having the same problems. Shutdown goes to black screen and hangs as does reboot. The only solution is to hold down the power key to shut the power off.
Any ideas on where to look for a solution would be helpful.

Asus G73 with am ATI 5870 video card

After swapping to the classic version from unity shutdown worked for me so far will keep you updated if it stops working.

shutdown seems to been solved after swapping to classic even after swapping back to Unity my computer shuts down as normal now. Try swapping it may work for you as it did for me.

---

### Post by Kevtopia on 2011-05-04
HI Dai777
I tried that on my laptop but it did not fix anything for me it still hangs. Both in classic and unity.
I am ok holding the power button until the fix is out.:popcorn:

---

### Post by bjo101 on 2011-05-04
I'm experiencing the same issue with my laptop running 11.04 32-bit, but not on my desktop running 64-bit.  My desktop is AMD based and my laptop is intel based.  I think this is a really strange issue for a final release version of ubuntu I hope someone figures out the cause and corrects the issue soon.

---

### Post by wrigsster on 2011-05-06
I am having the exact same problem with my Desktop PC ever since I loaded 11.04 Unity.  It does not hang every time I shutdown but does on most occasions.  Again the only option to turn the system off is to hold the Power ON/OFF button in till the system powers off.  This is fine until I end up with corrupt data then I will be one unhappy vegemite.

I run an Intel Core i7 920 2.66mHz processor and an Asus Motherboard -P6T Deluxe V2, 6gb of Kingston RAM, Western Digital Hard Drives x 4, Wacom Graphire 2.0 Graphics Tablet, Logitech Mouse and LG Keyboard. Gpaphics is through Sapphire ATI4890 1gb card and a CMV221D Widescreen Monitor. I also have Epson CX9300F MFC attached to USB and Netcomm NP3680 Print Server with a Samsung ML-2010 Mono Laser printer also attached. I also have an Altec Lansing Sound System attached. Almost forgot, I also have a TomTom GO720 GPS unit plugged into USB for charging purposes and unfortunately update purposes when I have to reboot Windows. :-(

Now in all my time of running Ubuntu from way back in early days the only two pieces of hardware that have given any hiccups have been the Wacom Graphics tablet and a dedicated Sound Card which I have since removed and I now utilise onboard Intel Sound.  Before I start removing bits and pieces and testing every second last thing I was wondering if anyone else had found an answer but so far things aren't looking too promising.  I will now start my browsing of logs in an endeavour to find base cause if possible and if I find anything I will report back.  If anyone else finds cause in the meantime I would appreciate a quick post.  Many thanks... Phil - Western Australia

---

### Post by luvgirl12345 on 2011-05-06
Also have the same problem... well my black screen has some giberish on it that i don't understand (just because the gui doesn't hop in sometimes) 

Have a ATI card with the newest drivers... using unity

---

### Post by morefeo on 2011-05-06
Same problem with shutdown.

Classic desktop, ati card, pm-utils drowngraded to 1.3 (due to freeze bug in 1.4).

I'm going to test tonight if it's something related to pm-utils, if not, I'll test with the xorg radeon driver.

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2011-05-06
Wow this seem to be a common thing.

I don't know if this helps but after trying to go to mint I decided after a day that I prefer Ubuntu. So I reinstalled Ubuntu 11.04 *(Accidentally formatting my /home drive in the process. Don't do install while trying to entertain a 1 year old. Always focus on the task at hand. Thankfully I had a double backup system to recover from)*. Low and be hold it now shuts down etc. I don't know what I did different, it was the same CD image. Maybe it was a random bug? Perhaps if its practicable some of you could try reinstalling and see if it works for you.

---

### Post by axept on 2011-05-07
I have a similar problem.

Running 11.04 on a Aspire 7735Z.

But sometimes I dont have a black screen, I get the usual Ubuntu screen and it seems it stops during terminating the bluetooth. But this computer doesnt have bluetooth. Is this the reason maybe?

Anyone who knows?

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2011-05-07
> **axept said:**
> I have a similar problem.

Running 11.04 on a Aspire 7735Z.

But sometimes I dont have a black screen, I get the usual Ubuntu screen and it seems it stops during terminating the bluetooth. But this computer doesnt have bluetooth. Is this the reason maybe?

Anyone who knows?
Neither does mine. You could try stopping it in the startup applications or uninstalling the it. Then see if you can shut down the next time.

---

### Post by axept on 2011-05-07
Hm, tried to reboot now, this time it got past the bluetooth thing... but still freeze.

Strange, this was never a problem in 10.10.

---

### Post by Berto Miguel on 2011-05-07
I am getting a black screen and at very inopportune times, so now saving a lot, as I am trying to formulate a table in librewrite and have a deadline, ugh. Have to do a hard shut and then restart. I am not an IT expert, have enjoyed ubuntu up until now, really can't do the microserf thing but have it as a back up. Any ideas how to fix this black screen thing or is just waiting for an update. I am using an old Dell desktop, not doing anything exotic so min resource use. Tried going back to an older ubuntu 10.10 but can't get to load. argh So in advance thanks for any ideas.

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2011-05-08
If its possible, try backing up your data then re-install 11.04. I can't guarantee that it will work but it worked for me.

---

### Post by morefeo on 2011-05-08
Ok, my bug was due to the downgrade of pm-utils. Now It shutdowns fine but it freezes randomly on battery.

---

### Post by 4leite on 2011-05-11
Same problem on my laptop (asus u33jc), only happened when on battery - 
I think i've fixed mine by removing laptop-mode-tools

---

### Post by andymnc on 2011-05-16
I'm on Asus EEtop pc 2203T.
i've installed 11.04 on a 10.10 perfectly working (except for audio bug that still is not solved). I'd the same problem instantly, so the pc can't shut down never.

So, i've reformatted and installed 11.04 from scratch, and after that it'd shut down for some days.
Sunday it starts writing down some error on exit, before all shutdwon OK messages are gone.
By tomorrow, i've the same problem of this thread, so.. i can't shutdown, having the logo with dots changing colors... for ever...

the thing is.. that i'd apllied no change on the distro in these days... so i really don't understand WHY it work so ugly... even if in 10.10 i've no problem at all

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2011-05-17
> **andymnc said:**
> I'm on Asus EEtop pc 2203T.
i've installed 11.04 on a 10.10 perfectly working (except for audio bug that still is not solved). I'd the same problem instantly, so the pc can't shut down never.

So, i've reformatted and installed 11.04 from scratch, and after that it'd shut down for some days.
Sunday it starts writing down some error on exit, before all shutdwon OK messages are gone.
By tomorrow, i've the same problem of this thread, so.. i can't shutdown, having the logo with dots changing colors... for ever...

the thing is.. that i'd apllied no change on the distro in these days... so i really don't understand WHY it work so ugly... even if in 10.10 i've no problem at all

Did you happen to catch what the error messages were?

---

### Post by Kevtopia on 2011-05-18
> **Kevtopia said:**
> HI Dai777
I tried that on my laptop but it did not fix anything for me it still hangs. Both in classic and unity.
I am ok holding the power button until the fix is out.:popcorn:
OK I used this to fix my plymouth issues (forgot all about doing it) 
[http://kyleabaker.com/2010/07/11/how-to-fix-your-ubuntu-boot-screen/](http://kyleabaker.com/2010/07/11/how-to-fix-your-ubuntu-boot-screen/)

I used this to revert back
[http://www.kyleabaker.com/downloads/ubuntu/scripts/plymouth-resolution-fix-revert-back.sh.zip](http://www.kyleabaker.com/downloads/ubuntu/scripts/plymouth-resolution-fix-revert-back.sh.zip)

Now my laptop shutdowns correctly and responds to the power key press etc.

---

### Post by chox_de on 2011-08-02
Hello,

I had a similar problem running Ubuntu 11.04 64bit on an AMD system: My system always hung when shutting down normally, resulting in a black screen with some shutdown log on it. One of the last entries mentioned the modem-manager, so I googled and came to this bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/modemmanager/+bug/540597](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/modemmanager/+bug/540597)
I just deinstalled the modem via synaptic, no other packages had to be removed, and my system is now shutting down as intended.

Another helpful site I found here: [http://www.brighthub.com/computing/linux/articles/39504.aspx](http://www.brighthub.com/computing/linux/articles/39504.aspx)
It is described how to figure out whether the acpi module is causing all the trouble and how to narrow down the necessary boot-up options to prevent it. In my case, booting with the option "acpi=ht" would have also helped, without removing the modem-manager.

Hopefully this helps some desperate beings out there! :)

---

