---
title: "grub2@1024x768 - plymoputh@1680x1050"
date: 2010-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tad1073 on 2010-05-31
I have grub set to 1024x768. How do I set plymouth to 1680x1050 while keeping grub resolution?

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2010-06-01
bump

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2010-06-01
Plymouth will use whatever resolution the kernel uses for the console. Did you get 1024x768 for just grub? or did you get it for the console, too?

Here's what I had to do to get 1024x768 console resolution.

First, in configure grub using these settings in /etc/default/grub:
```
GRUB_GFXMODE=1024x768
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=keep
```

Then, update the grub config:
```
sudo update-grub
```

Next, disable KMS (kernel mode resolution handling), since it appears to override the setting from the grub config, at least on my systems:
```
echo "options radeon modeset=0" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/radeon.conf
```
This may need to be different if you don't use an ATI graphics card.

And finally, update the initramfs, because the KMS configuration change won't take if you don't:
```
sudo update-initramfs -u
```

The above method worked for me to change the console resolution, which also changed the display resolution used by plymouth, with the splash image appearing larger on the screen.

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2010-06-01
I can achieve 1024x768 with plymouth but my goal is to have grub at 1024x768 and plymouth at 1680x1050

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2010-06-01
I missed the fact that you wanted different resolutions. Everything from my above post should hold true, except that you would want:
```
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=1680x1050
```

I should also have mentioned that you should try it first without disabling KMS to see if it works for you without that step.

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2010-06-01
> **Brandon Williams said:**
> I missed the fact that you wanted different resolutions. Everything from my above post should hold true, except that you would want:
```
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=1680x1050
```I should also have mentioned that you should try it first without disabling KMS to see if it works for you without that step.
  thnx, that did the trick

---

