---
title: "5.10 boot stops at &quot;hotplug subsystem&quot; on Dell Latitude CPi"
date: 2006-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 1002285 on 2006-04-24
I have just installed Ubuntu 5.10 and even got through some of the first problems already.
But a very big one is that most of the times it does not boot. The boot stops at the point of "starting hotplug subsystem", and only about 1/4 of the times it actually gets through this point and Ubuntu starts.
- what is this "hotplug subsystem"?
- can anyone guess why this happens?
- can I switch "hotplug subsystem" off?

---

### Post by 1002285 on 2006-04-24
So something that I just found out is that it will not even start 1/4 of the times. But when I entered setup and chose "recovery mode" and wrote "reboot" in the command line, when I got a chance to, it restarted again, and this time, it kind of skipped the "starting hotplug subsystem" part - didn't show "ok", but continued from there.
Can anyone give me some useful things to try when in this "recovery mode" or setup?
And another thing - as I changed xorg in order to get Estonian layout working (and it did now), I might also changed monitor settings - and the picture is all wrong now. Or - it has something to do with the hotplug subsystem thing.
Is there some utility in Ubuntu 5.10 that could try and find out about this problem itself? Or should I go into xorg configuration again - but how do I know which settings to choose?
It is getting difficult now ...

---

### Post by sinkxdie on 2006-04-24
You should try unplugging your internet at boot time. Just a suggestion. I have heard of this problem before though. Try searching around google and other forum topics.

---

### Post by 1002285 on 2006-04-25
OK, I'll have to try and search more. But your suggestion seems to work until I can find something else. It does not say "ok" for the "hotplug system", but it gets pass it and starts.
Thanks

---

