---
title: "Strange new problems with Ubuntu"
date: 2010-08-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Beth on 2010-08-03
I have long been a fan of Ubuntu, always cheering it's successes. Ubuntu has been the tide that has raised all the boats in the harbor -- a major threat to Windows. Now there seems to be some serious issues generated by Windows entrance into Linux with Windows 7. I felt Ubuntu folks needed to know what I've found.

I frequently test software and was part of the group who tested Windows 7. What I noticed at the testing level was damage to harddrives of all the computers I used in the testing, as well as other defects such as Win 7 being the sum total of a gigantic and dangerous spy machine that was not related to the ports used for testing reports that are automatically sent. When I reported this to Windows and other formal Tech groups, Microsoft pounced and it was ugly, real ugly. Mysteriously and curiously, two of the computers in my group were "flash burned" during this time. They were the only two hooked up on the internet at that time, both were IBMs. If you've ever used a Windows program that Microsoft didn't want you to use, you know Microsoft flash burns your computer and makes it inoperable. Such computers are essentially rubble.

But back to the early beta stages of Windows 7 and the testing I participated in, that damage could be repaired. Now with the final releases of Windows 7, the damage is massive and at this point seems to be not repairable. Windows 7 is Ubuntu based. Vista also used some linux but did not damage systems.

What is happening is this. Those who do harddrive scrubs to reload Windows XP discover there is no sound, multimedia or ethernet controllers/drivers which previously had loaded automatically. Worse, Realtek sound drivers will crash the system. I've told Microsoft about this, it is a Microsoft problem and yet Microsoft blamed faulty Realtek drivers -- which is totally false. The fact is, this also happened during testing of Windows 7 and had never happened previously. Viscious code in Windows 7 is turning off chips.

I have copies of all kinds of Linux OS and likely every Ubuntu that has ever been written. So I simply did harddrive scrubs and attempted to load Ubuntu. Now I've discovered even more damage from Windows 7. None of the newer Ubuntu operating systems will load and neither will any of the Ubuntu based systems such as LinuxMint. Fedora, some versions of Puppy and Suse did load, but the versious I had were old and the previous damage from Windows 7 that I could not seem to fix, also prohibited downloads and burns of newer versions of Fedora and Suse.

What I did then was determine at what levels the Ubuntu operating systems were affected by the Windows 7 damage. What I discovered was very interesting. None of the Ubuntu operating systems would load until I got down to the 6.06 versions (which is what I'm using now to contact you).

In my opinion, the problem is related to more of the Windows 7 code even though I've done several scrubs/reformatting of the harddrive. Not only is that viscious Win 7 code blocking the use of Ubuntu via failure to load, but the same also is happening to various levels of Windows operating systems. The fact is, the only operating system that will now load properly that I've tested is -- Windows 7. (I have not tested Vista -- that is coming next). I also must order and test new versions of Suse, Fedora and Ubuntu 10 since I cannot burn either of them now. Also, the internet downloads of DOS and other boot disks are obviously further designs of bad code used to prevent the proper use of any operating system except Windows 7. If you do not have original boot disks dated prior to Vista, do not use them. 

Going through this, I've also discovered that the Dell XP operating system will load BUT it's the same story with the chips failing to load the ethernet, sound and multimedia controllers/drivers. Interestingly, the only driver that can be loaded independently is the ethernet, while sound will crash as it loads independently and multimedia has absolutely no independent download site. Viscious code happens to be what is suggested. Don't use it.

As I sit here surrounded by heaps and loads of CDs and DVDs, there is a distinct frustration with all this that I've never felt before. This one, I cannot fix. Worse, I prepare computers for the disabled and must use Windows on Linux for their MagicJack phone systems, a camera for eye/facial control of their computers and internet, and voice control programs. Neither Linux nor Windows works properly now and none of that can be used now.

I've even tried to upgrade Ubuntu 6.06. It won't upgrade and neither will it load VirtualBox or upgrade Firefox or Flash.

Essentially, it appears that in the development of Ubuntu, there must have been code changes from 6.06 upwards to the new versions that Microsoft used and damaged, that prohibits proper loading and mischief of all operating systems beyond that level that are Ubuntu or Ubuntu based as well as affecting other levels of Windows operating systems prior to Win 7 development.

I urge the genius types to check into this situation and try to come up with a repair or recode for all of us who love Ubuntu. Microsoft has very effectively disabled Ubuntu.

Thank you Ubuntu, for everything you've done and everything you continue doing. 

Beth

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-08-03
few question:

are your hdd(s) tatooed ?
are both grub1 & grub2 installed ( grub2 dont like menu.lst) ?
the only reason i can see about w7 trouble affecting linux is a w7 bad closing session

---

### Post by Beth on 2010-08-03
Thank you for your response Dino. I appreciate it very much.

All of the harddrives are scrubbed and reformatted according to the operating system that is being tested whether it is Linux or Windows. It doesn't seem to matter if the reformatting is automatic or manual, I'm not getting good loads. 

Prior to Windows 7 testing, all Ubuntu and Ubuntu based operating systems and Windows operating systems loaded automatically without problems. That is not the case now.

I also noticed when I do scrubs that I'm getting some very strange messages there as well and the scrubs have to be done sometimes 3 times before the drive is clear and there's been an odd Fat drive activation that is spontaneous that has to be disabled.

Don't know if this is relative, but I found this data on the internet this morning:
[http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Linux-and-Open-Source/Did-Microsoft-Block-Free-Software-from-Licensing-Scheme/1/](http://www.eweek.com/c/a/Linux-and-Open-Source/Did-Microsoft-Block-Free-Software-from-Licensing-Scheme/1/)

I need to go back and check the error messages and post those so you will have a better idea of what is going on. I will do that later today. I also want to study your suggestions and determine if I've missed anything I should have been doing.

Thank you again for your posting, Dino.

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2010-08-03
Do you live in a hidden darkened basement because someones been following you???
:^o

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-08-03
Send me all your "boat anchors", I'll use them.

---

### Post by brokenromeo on 2010-08-03
I used the RC versions and final version of Win 7 extensively, installed it several times, formatted the same drive, did Ubuntu installations, formatted and did dual boot configs...all on the same drives on multiple computers...no problems at all, not sure what you are talking about...

---

### Post by jerenept on 2010-08-03
That link is about Microsoft's server communication protocols, not something as unlikely as this. Your CD's are probably scratched or something.

---

