---
title: "9.10 Upgrade problem"
date: 2009-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pvravi on 2009-11-05
Hi everyone. 

I seem to have a problem on upgrading from 9.04 to 9.10. If I start upgrade manager and click on the 'upgrade' button, the window grays out and hangs. I can only force-quit it from there. 

If I try a do-release-upgrade from the command line, it just says "Checking a new ubuntu release" and sits there doing nothing for ages - overnight in one case. 

Have tried everything - Apt updates, aptitude updates, whatever I could think of and could find online. No go. 

I don't even know what the problem is at this point. Standard updates occur properly with no problem. 

Appreciate any help

Thanks in advance. 

pvravi

---

### Post by pvravi on 2009-11-05
Also 

apt-get dist-upgrate does nothing.

$ sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Calculating upgrade... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.

---

### Post by pvravi on 2009-11-05
Also tried a reboot several times. no go.

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2009-11-05
Try opening System-> Administration-> Software Sources and click the drop-down that says 'Download from' and select 'other'. Then 'Select best server' and try the update-manager again.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2009-11-05
personally i have not sever problems with 9.10 but...
it is not worth the update to me honestly i thing it takes longer to boot
have not put a stop watch to it
you could use the cd to upgrade it 
the cd is actually smaller than the update about 30 MB
but in on  separate partition and see if you like it 
my problem with it are 
rythmbox is missing minimize to try addon
can't scroll between work spaces
the new gurb list actually lags WTF (using old grub)
missing my screen saver (skyrockets)
cant change the login screen cant enable root gui login for that matter
cant disable the prompt at shutdown 
i would like to have the old theme from 9.04
only advantage i have seen is being able to close root access with one click

i updated it on my mom pc it lost the required video and sound drivers (mute and video lagging system)

i have not had fun with 9.10
live usb had a kernal failure 
yes the md5 sum matched
went form 9.04 32bit to 9.10 64bit BTW
if some body can help me with teh problems i will use 9.10

---

### Post by pvravi on 2009-11-05
Pastalavista: upgrade-manager still hangs; atp-get dist-upgrade also says nothing to upgrade

pqwoe: thanks for the advice, but multimedia caps are not high on the list.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2009-11-05
just remembered i have had issues with buttons in flash

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2009-11-05
I think it would help both of you to try ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -a && sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
```because it seems like broken packages to me.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2009-11-05
me@me-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -a && sudo aptitude safe-upgrade
[sudo] password for me: 
 * Disabling power management...                                         [ OK ] 
update-rc.d: warning: /etc/init.d/acpi-support missing LSB information
update-rc.d: see <http://wiki.debian.org/LSBInitScripts>
 * Checking battery state...                                             [ OK ] 
acpid stop/waiting
acpid start/running, process 2067
 * Starting AppArmor profiles                                                   Skipping profile in /etc/apparmor.d/disable: usr.bin.firefox-3.5
                                                                         [ OK ]
 * Reloading AppArmor profiles                                                  Skipping profile in /etc/apparmor.d/disable: usr.bin.firefox-3.5
                                                                         [ OK ]
dpkg-trigger: dpkg-trigger must be called from a maintainer script (or with a --by-package option)
me@me-laptop:~$

---

### Post by pastalavista on 2009-11-05
@pqwoerituytrueiwoq - Your install is corrupted. Reboot in recovery mode and try the package repair option. Otherwise, a clean install may be your best bet.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2009-11-05
recovery failed
cant even get to the 3ed option then it crashed

---

### Post by pvravi on 2009-11-06
Thanks, everyone. It turns out that update-manager just had to freeze and wait for a very long time. Go figure. 

Now updated and working. 

Thanks for all the help.;)

---

