---
title: "11.10 startup freeze at ubuntu logo page"
date: 2011-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LloydM999 on 2011-10-30
I have a fresh install of Ubuntu 11.10 (kernel 3.1.0-rc10+) on an AMD 64-bit system. With the latest nVidia driver (285.05.09), the startup hangs on the ubuntu logo screen after the 5 red dots turn to white, then red again. Ctrl-Alt-F<x> doesn't get me into a tty session, and Ctril+Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B doesn't reboot. In recovery mode, I get a lot of "usb 5-2 device descriptor read/64 error -110" messages before I can drop into a root prompt. I can then telinit 3 to start an X session and get to the login screen, but I can't login. The login screen reappears after I enter my username and password, without an "invalid username/password" warning.
 
If I install the nvidia_current driver (280.05.09) instead, the startup hangs immediately at the blank aubergine screen. In recovery mode, it hangs after the "loading initial ramdisk..." message.
 
I Googled around for similar problems, but none of the solutions seemed to work. I've attached a zipfile of my dmesg output. Thanks in advance for any help. BTW I did not have any such problems with 11.04.
 
-LloydM999

---

### Post by shaneo1 on 2011-11-02
Me too, guest its not ready yet then for 11.10.

BTW its Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B  :D  close but no cigar.

---

### Post by LloydM999 on 2011-11-02
Thanks.
 
I meant Ctrl+Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B, I add the Ctrl to prevent a screen dump.

---

### Post by mike1947 on 2011-11-07
I had the same problem and after installing about 3000 packages and trying to get compiz -- unity working (fails b/c no multitouch support, I use xorg-edgers).  After doing a ppa-purge of xorg-edgers, I went into recovery mode.  Got a read only root shell but
rest of system hung.  Rather than reinstalling I downloaded the ubuntu alternate recovery disk which had a recover system mode which worked after a few apt-add-repositories. I would not recommend installing oneiric until such time as unity -- compiz are working  :P

---

### Post by olamina on 2011-11-22
I got my new Lenovo T420 like two weeks ago and it was working up until an hour ago when it froze, I rebooted it, and now it just hangs at the Ubuntu logo-start page. I tried to press shift during start up but all I get is a feeble "grub loading" message and then it goes back to that infernal screen. If someone could just tell me the way back to where I was this morning before that update, I'd be SO happy. The only thing that is giving me any response is BIOS, so I think if I can get together some sort of recovery files together I can boot them off a USB key (no DVD available sadly). Any and all help is wildly and effusively appreciated!

---

### Post by olamina on 2011-11-25
This solved my problem. Yay!

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11358332&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11358332&postcount=6)

:guitar:

---

### Post by carrucha on 2013-01-30
Mine stopped booting after the power went out. This worked perfectly. Thanks again.

---

