---
title: "18.04 boot failure after software update"
date: 2020-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andreus42 on 2020-04-26
*(Due to my Ubuntu Forums inexperience, I'm not sure if this is a forum, faux pas, but I'm posting this message in two threads not knowing which is better. I also included this under installation and updates.)*

[B]Summary up front:
[/B]Boot repair was not able to fix the boot problems but produced a URL with an error-log:

     [http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/9fNpqRyHMK/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/9fNpqRyHMK/)[B]

Background
[/B]On Ubuntu 18.04, I recently ran software update that created surprising behaviours.
--On first reboot, second monitor failed and first display was set to a  much lower resolution setting. I couldn't change display settings from  settings menu.
--On second reboot, did not see my typical logon (this may be that I  have a different username with sudo privileges and didn't realize there  was another login with my full name. I didn't see my typical login.
--On third reboot the system would not boot at all.
--Perhaps related is that I started to notice hardware failure with my  mouse this week (left click button acting like the right  intermittently), and tried using several different USB ports which  seemed to temporally fix the issue.

Using a bootable USB, I attempted several fixes including checking discs  for errors, repairing GRUB and using boot-repair utility. 

It's not apparent if GRUB is working properly. I'm guessing not because of the first few lines of the error-log.
 The integrity check of Syslinux failed. 
 No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.As of now, I'm not  experienced enough to understand this log, but I'm currently Googling  through it. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2020-04-26
Hello and welcome to the forum, either forum is okay but installation and upgrades is the best forum to post this issue in.

Thread closed. Please do not post duplicates, it dilutes community effort.

---

