---
title: "8.10 is not shutting down"
date: 2009-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hasan iqbal on 2009-04-29
hi guys,
im getting a message in startup that read,"acpi=force is required to enable acpi".is it the reason for what my ubuntu 8.10 is not shutting down fully(after a few moments the screen goes black with a blinking cursor on the top left corner of the screen) when i give shut down command?

---

### Post by piratebill on 2009-04-29
I dont think so.  I had that same message on my system, but it awlays shutdown.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2009-04-29
Are you restarting from the restart button, or are you actually restarting from the Terminal? You can restart from the Terminal by running the following command:
```
sudo shutdown -r now
```
See if that reboots properly when you run that command.

---

### Post by linuxaz on 2009-04-29
Hello,
Add this (minus the quotes) to your boot line of Grub.
"acpi=force"

It would appear that you have a machine with a buggy bios.

bertman

---

### Post by shel-hall on 2009-04-29
> **hasan iqbal said:**
> hi guys,
im getting a message in startup that read,"acpi=force is required to enable acpi".is it the reason for what my ubuntu 8.10 is not shutting down fully(after a few moments the screen goes black with a blinking cursor on the top left corner of the screen) when i give shut down command?
Seemingly, Ubuntu 8.10 just can't power down some PCs.  I get the same "acpi=force" message at boot-up with my laptop, ad 8.10 doesn't shut off the power at power down.  I've tried it with and without "acpi=force", with and without APM and ACPI, and no combination powers the machine off properly.

On the other hand, it's almost the only thing that doesn't work right on that 10-year-old laptop, though it took a bit of fiddling to get some of the other issues resolved.

You may just have to live with it.

-Shel

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-04-29
This works for some people, myself included. First open the /etc/modules file in the text editor as root:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/modules
```

Then add this as the bottom line of the file:
```
apm power_off=1
```

Then save and close the file, reboot, and the next shutdown might work properly.

---

