---
title: "[HELP!]How To Solve the Dead Screen Issue"
date: 2008-04-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by coldgrace on 2008-04-02
Hey all,

I have been stuck by this problem for weeks. Thanks any suggestions here in advance.

I got a HP Pavilion desktop with AMD Althon X2 5600 CPU and GeForce 6150 SE video card. The WInXP system runs great but for ubuntu I always got a dead screen. It is like after several minutes I logged in, all of a sudden a lot of colors appear on the screen and flash. Noise came out from the speakers and then it was dead. ctrl+F1 or ctrl+alt+backspace do not work. I read a lot and tried several ways to solve it such like install the newest driver for Linux AMD64 system from nvidia official site, changed driver to VESA and corrected the vertical sync and horizontal sync parameters. Nothing changed.

Here I post my xorg.conf

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Feb 14 18:13:41 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection



```


Hope someone could help. Thanks again.

---

### Post by coldgrace on 2008-04-02
I am new to Ubuntu. So if you need any other information, please let me know.

By the way, I am using a Acer AL2216WBD monitor with resolution 1280x1024@60HZ righ now.

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-04-02
> **coldgrace said:**
> Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection
 on my system, the driver available is "nv", maybe you should make that change in the xorg.conf and restart the X server?

> Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Why not temporarily comment out the "options" lines (Esp the NoLogo one; instinct at work, not brains), and change the Modes lines to the resolutions you actually want, separated by a space Eg. ```

Modes "1024x768" "800x600"

```

---

### Post by coldgrace on 2008-04-02
Thanks a bunch. I am at work now and will try that as soon as I get back. And I will post the results here. Hope it will be good news.
:KS

---

### Post by coldgrace on 2008-04-02
Well, I tried but still the same issue-- dead after several minutes. But previously in "restricted device" the driver was not enabled but there was a green check of "in use". Now the driver was still not enabled and the red light of "not in use" is on since I changed from nvidia to nv. So I wonder is it the same effect to change nvidia to vesa?

Someone got any ideas?

---

### Post by tiga2001 on 2008-04-02
When you use nvidia, you are using the binary drivers from nvidia, which just happens to also enable hardware acceleration from your graphics card. When you use nv, you are using software to draw the screen, a.k.a. your graphics card isn't doing anything, but your cpu is doing all the work. That is the same with vesa. Why they have vesa and nv separately, I don't know. Even if the checkbox in the restricted driver is not checked, as long as there is a green check indicating in use, you are using nvidia with hardware acceleration.

Did you try using the binary driver directly from the repository (nvidia-glx or variant) or did you compile your own driver? If you compiled your own driver, you should try uninstalling nvidia-kernel-common. In my experience, having nvidia-kernel-common messes things up in Ubuntu when you manually compile the nvidia driver. The bad part is that some other meta-packages depend on nvidia-kernel-common, but that should be a relatively minor issue.

---

### Post by coldgrace on 2008-04-03
> **tiga2001 said:**
> When you use nvidia, you are using the binary drivers from nvidia, which just happens to also enable hardware acceleration from your graphics card. When you use nv, you are using software to draw the screen, a.k.a. your graphics card isn't doing anything, but your cpu is doing all the work. That is the same with vesa. Why they have vesa and nv separately, I don't know. Even if the checkbox in the restricted driver is not checked, as long as there is a green check indicating in use, you are using nvidia with hardware acceleration.

Did you try using the binary driver directly from the repository (nvidia-glx or variant) or did you compile your own driver? If you compiled your own driver, you should try uninstalling nvidia-kernel-common. In my experience, having nvidia-kernel-common messes things up in Ubuntu when you manually compile the nvidia driver. The bad part is that some other meta-packages depend on nvidia-kernel-common, but that should be a relatively minor issue.

Thank you very much for your suggestions. I did try the inbuilt driver nvidia-glx using sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx before but it did not work. That's why i turned to manually installed the newest driver from nvidia. Before doing that, I followed some posts here (can not remember where they are now) and deleted all files and directories related to nvidia-kernel-common. 

What I am trying to do now is using sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg and change for nv driver. Hope it is the correct answer. But I will all the desktop effects.:(

---

### Post by coldgrace on 2008-04-03
After I used the above command and changed driver to nv, it worked for 40 mins before crash. Much better now. 

Since with nv, cpu takes all the burdens, does that mean my cpu is defective?

---

### Post by coldgrace on 2008-04-03
Does anyone know where can I find the system crash report? I guess it might help solve the issue.

---

