---
title: "19.04 - No complete boot after reinstall - Intel AMT?"
date: 2019-09-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-09-30
Laptop: HP/Compaq 6910p, 240 GB SSD, 4 GB RAM. BIOS set back to default.

The laptop has worked impeccably and reliably for weeks. After an SSD crash (my own fault, not hardware related), I did a reinstall using my live DVD with lubuntu 19.04.
I got the usual "drm_kms_helper" errors from the Intel 965 chipset, but boot completed. all OK.

I landed in the live desktop and did the full install. All OK.

The machine rebooted as always after install. Usual 965 errors.
Long time black screen, then desktop with login, long time login. Biz as usual, I know this from former installs.
Manual reboot to be certain everything is cleared. Looong time black screen, lubuntu logo. desktop, very slow login. Update GRUB to get rid of the 965 problem.

System now runs wonderfully and fast, boot/reboot/login, all perfect.

Now comes the problem:
I restore from a Timeshift snapshot, which works. The snapshot does not contain /root or /home, and GRUB and GRUB2 are also not restored.

But after rebooting, I land in a GRUB screen, and going further, I get a lubuntu logo and then a black screen with Busybox and (initramfs) prompt. From there on, everything stops.

Before that, I get an "error: device not found" + a long hex number. I suspect this is the AMT ID. 
But how to proceed? I've tried disabling AMT in the BIOS, but with no success.

I'm at my wit's end. :(

Any idea is highly appreciated. Thank You.

---

