---
title: "9.04 compiz problems"
date: 2009-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-02
Hello all,

I just upgraded to 9.04 and while I was able to fix most of the ussually-encountered problems, this one has me stumped.  I use the widget manager 'screenlets' and when I booted up, very quickly I might add :D all of my screenlets were on the regular desktop and I received the following error.

> Starting avant-window-navigator
Warning: Screen isn't composited. Please run compiz (-fusion) or another compositing manager.

I tried going in to my compiz desktop effects utility and setting things back to normal, but no changes, such as wobbly windows, took effect.

Any help or advice?

much thanks,
M4rotku

---

### Post by Cammy on 2009-06-02
I assume you've tried hitting alt+F2 and typing: compiz --replace

I had a problem on my jaunty where compiz would not start at boot-up.  Can't remember how I fixed it now.

---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-02
compiz --replace doesn't work.  I think it might be more of a settings issue.  idk.

---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-02
Update, I also cannot switch between workspaces using the ctr + alt + direction arrow anymore.  I am restricted to the default 2 workspaces even if I try to change the settings back to 2x2.  This upgrade messed up my 3 favorite customizations:  my workspaces, my awn, and my widgets.  I knew I should have waited longer to upgrade.  ](*,)

---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-03
bump

---

### Post by akakingess on 2009-06-03
I vaguely remember having the same problem, also regarding mounting with compiz, and I think the issue was resolved with AWN Manager? Have you checked all of the settings in AWN Manager and is it even installed? I would swear that's what resolved my issues, but don't hold me to it 100%. Hope this helps and good luck in all, because I have had great luck with Jaunty and have been extremely happy that I updated to it.  JMHO

akakingess

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-06-03
> **M4rotku said:**
> Hello all,

I just upgraded to 9.04 and while I was able to fix most of the ussually-encountered problems, this one has me stumped.  I use the widget manager 'screenlets' and when I booted up, very quickly I might add :D all of my screenlets were on the regular desktop and I received the following error.



I tried going in to my compiz desktop effects utility and setting things back to normal, but no changes, such as wobbly windows, took effect.

Any help or advice?

much thanks,
M4rotku

I'll ask the obvious first, do you have your display drivers installed from System< Administration< Hardware Drivers ?

---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-03
Yes, I have the only driver that appears 'Software modem' installed.  I will note that this is the first time I have had to install a third-party driver.

akakingess, I do have awn-manager installed.  I reinstalled it just-in-case and received the same results.

Thank you both for your posts,
M4rotku

---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-04
bump?

---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-04
Update:  I went in the Jaunty bug section and saw that there was an Intel bug.  I used the workaround and it didn't fix any of my problems.  I just recently reinstalled all of the compiz-related packages and that didn't do anything.  Another bad issue which may cause me to reinstall:  I had to reinstall skype and picasa and then used the 'Computer Janitor' application to get rid of the extra config stuff.  It deleted the programs entirely!! :o
Why does this application exist?  I think it may've also deleted my VirtualBox install and who knows what else.

Does anyone know if these problems are interconnected?

Much thanks,
M4rotku

p.s.  Sorry if this got a bit rant-ish, but this is the most trouble I've had with a release upgrade in a while.

---

### Post by akakingess on 2009-06-05
Now I have done a new install of Jaunty and I can't remember how I got each "workspace" to have it's own desktop background.  Does anyone recall that little tidbit of info. BTW, I am not trying to hijack your thread so please don't take it that way, I just know it had something to do with the settings in compiz and/or awn manager.  Thanks in advance if anyone has any info.

akakingess

---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-05
bump.

---

### Post by M4rotku on 2009-06-05
For others who are following this thread, I found the solution here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=799070]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=799070")

This was the output I received from the script, my selection to skip the blacklist, and my running of compiz:

> $ ./compiz-check 

Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 9.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
 Driver in use:         intel
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [ OK ]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [ OK ]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [WARN]

Something potential problematic has been detected with your setup:
 Warning: PCI ID 8086:2a02 detected. 

Would you like to know more? (Y/n) y

 Your particular graphics chip may be blacklisted on certain distributions.
 However that does not necessarily mean you will not be able to run Compiz.

 You can skip this blacklist -- but keep in mind that you did so.
 Do not complain if you encounter any problems with Compiz afterwards. 

Do you want to skip blacklist checks by Compiz? (y/N) y

$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Blacklisted PCIID '8086:2a02' found 
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems.
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Checking screen 1Comparing resolution (1280x800) to maximum 3D texture size (2048): Passed.
Checking for Software Rasterizer: Not present. 
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
running under gnome seesion, checking for gnomecompat
adding missing gnomecompat
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Starting gtk-window-decorator



:D

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-06-05
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/363821](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/363821)

IMHO, the "Computer Janitor" is a poorly-worded n00b trap.

---

