---
title: "1.1.4 iPod Touch Password?"
date: 2008-07-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ringxring on 2008-07-01
Hello! I've lurked the forum before for helpful topics, but I couldn't find one that worked for me. Sorry if this is the wrong spot for posting!

I've just jailbroken (1.1.4) my iPod touch and I can't get it to SSH.  I've installed everything (BSD and OpenSSH on the iPod, ipod-convenience on laptop), input the iPod's Static IP for ipod-convenience, but when I try to mount it, "alpine" and "dottie" both don't work.  I can ping the IP of my iPod, so I know it's there, it's just the passwords aren't working.

I'd really appreciate it if someone can help me out or point me in the right direction.  I've been at this for the past two hours or so and it's starting to get under my skin :(

---

### Post by abuakel on 2008-07-02
> **ringxring said:**
> Hello! I've lurked the forum before for helpful topics, but I couldn't find one that worked for me. Sorry if this is the wrong spot for posting!

I've just jailbroken (1.1.4) my iPod touch and I can't get it to SSH.  I've installed everything (BSD and OpenSSH on the iPod, ipod-convenience on laptop), input the iPod's Static IP for ipod-convenience, but when I try to mount it, "alpine" and "dottie" both don't work.  I can ping the IP of my iPod, so I know it's there, it's just the passwords aren't working.

I'd really appreciate it if someone can help me out or point me in the right direction.  I've been at this for the past two hours or so and it's starting to get under my skin :(

I *believe* it's "alpine" without the quotations. That's what it is with my 1.1.4 iPhone. It'll probably ask you for it twice.
But here are better links and how-to's:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PortableDevices/iPhone](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PortableDevices/iPhone)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588246](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=588246)

---

### Post by ringxring on 2008-07-02
abuakel,

thank you so much for posting! I managed to get it working though.  For anyone else who's having problems, I used this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=645848") and followed the advice in there. Abuakel, I did need to put in alpine twice to find my error, so thank you so much!

---

