---
title: "9.10 no longer boots"
date: 2010-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Szdfan on 2010-03-02
The left hinge on my Dell Inspiron 1521 cracked and broke.  Last night, I removed the hinge since it had frozen in an "up" position.  I had to remove the hinge plate to do so.

Since then, I am unable to boot my computer.  Whenever I boot up, I see the Dell Boot Screen (like normal) and then the screen goes blank except for a the words GRUB at the top of the screen.  I've tried using the Live Disk to recover, but I don't have a "Recover" option on the set up menu and prior to installing, the set up client advises that there is no operating system installed and that I have only one partition.

Ack! So what happened? Is this a coincidence or did I cause it? Is there any way to recover my data or am I SOL?

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-03-09
It is possible to Re-install Ubuntu and preserve your data. To do so, while re-installing, manually select the partition to use. Be sure not to format the drive. You will lose system settings.

In any event I would normally do a back-up anyway. I have attached the back-up instructions I use.

[ATTACH]149475[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by perham on 2010-03-09
> **Szdfan said:**
> The left hinge on my Dell Inspiron 1521 cracked and broke.  Last night, I removed the hinge since it had frozen in an "up" position.  I had to remove the hinge plate to do so.

Since then, I am unable to boot my computer.  Whenever I boot up, I see the Dell Boot Screen (like normal) and then the screen goes blank except for a the words GRUB at the top of the screen.  I've tried using the Live Disk to recover, but I don't have a "Recover" option on the set up menu and prior to installing, the set up client advises that there is no operating system installed and that I have only one partition.

Ack! So what happened? Is this a coincidence or did I cause it? Is there any way to recover my data or am I SOL?

this probably means that your hard disk is faulty. you should be able to find a data recovery center near yourself. in any case, if the HD is broken, it's nothing you can do but to let a professional examine it.

---

