---
title: "Ncurses and recompiling kernel"
date: 2005-08-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dr. Z2A on 2005-08-05
Ok so need to recompile my kernel with pcmcia support for a new wifi card.  I went to set this up and did 'make menuconfig' and it told me I needed to install Ncurses.  I went and checked Synaptic and it said that I had Ncurses, but I never the less reinstalled it.  Now it still says I don't have Ncurses.  Can anyone tell me what I have to do?

---

### Post by Magneto on 2005-08-05
[QUOTE=Dr. Z2A]Ok so need to recompile my kernel with pcmcia support for a new wifi card.  I went to set this up and did 'make menuconfig' and it told me I needed to install Ncurses.  I went and checked Synaptic and it said that I had Ncurses, but I never the less reinstalled it.  Now it still says I don't have Ncurses.  Can anyone tell me what I have to do?[/QUOTE]
 why are you recompiling your kernel? you can't or don't want to just install the module?
check the kernel howtos if you want to go the route you have begun

---

### Post by Dr. Z2A on 2005-08-05
[QUOTE=Magneto]why are you recompiling your kernel? you can't or don't want to just install the module?
check the kernel howtos if you want to go the route you have begun[/QUOTE]
what is this module you speak of?  All I know is that the setup said to recompile the kernel with pcmcia support and that everyone I know just recompiles their kernel when they need to enable something new (as far as i know).

---

### Post by Magneto on 2005-08-05
[QUOTE=Dr. Z2A]what is this module you speak of?  All I know is that the setup said to recompile the kernel with pcmcia support and that everyone I know just recompiles their kernel when they need to enable something new (as far as i know).[/QUOTE]
 what type of network card is it? most likely someone else has used it before and placed instructions on this website that do not require recompiling

brand model number etc of your pcmcia card would help other people help you :)

---

### Post by az on 2005-08-05
Hey Magneto!  Great to see you!  You should stick around more!

---

### Post by Dr. Z2A on 2005-08-05
Its an Orinoco gold classic card.  It came with a readme for the setup and so i've just been following that, but if anyone know an easier way I'm open to links and suggestions.

---

### Post by az on 2005-08-05
Nobody I know recompiles their kernel.  

Anyway, pcmcia is enabled in the stock ubuntu kernel.  You should have the orinoco_cs module already.  Do you have pcmcia-cs installed?

---

### Post by Magneto on 2005-08-05
[QUOTE=azz]Hey Magneto!  Great to see you!  You should stick around more![/QUOTE]
 hey azz I'm gonna try - man you still crack me up with shatner

yeah DR that card is a standard wireless card

do a lsmod from the commandline and show us the results
 I'd bet its already installed just waiting to be configured a lil bit

lsmod lists all the modules in your currently running kernel. So we're looking for orinoco_cs to show up or pcmcia at least so that we can make orinoco_cs show up via the command "sudo modprobe orinoco_cs"

As a general rule it's good to check the operating system in question's documentation or resources for installation tips before following the manufacturer's instructions, you could save time, see problems other people have, etc before you jump in.

---

### Post by Dr. Z2A on 2005-08-16
Ok I did lsmod.  Orinoco_cs was not there, however pcmcia was listed.  So can I just do 'sudo modprobe orinoco_cs' or do I have to do something else from here?

edit: I did 'modprobe orinoco_cs' as root and it didn't give me any errors or anything, just went back to the shell prompt.  Is this good or bad, and what should I do from here?

---

### Post by Dr. Z2A on 2005-08-17
Sorry for the double post but I seriously need some help here.  Any input?

---

### Post by az on 2005-08-18
1- boot.
2-  Open a terminal
3-  insert card
4- wait ten seconds
5- type 
dmesg
in the terminal
6- post the last ten lines (or so).  That will be the messages generated by hotplug talking to the kernel.  It will provide informatino as to what your computer is doing with the card.

---

### Post by Dr. Z2A on 2005-08-18
[QUOTE=azz]1- boot.
2-  Open a terminal
3-  insert card
4- wait ten seconds
5- type 
dmesg
in the terminal
6- post the last ten lines (or so).  That will be the messages generated by hotplug talking to the kernel.  It will provide informatino as to what your computer is doing with the card.[/QUOTE]
ok here is it:

> 
Linux kernel card Services
     Options: [pci] [cardbus] [pm]
PCI: Enabling device 0000:02:06.0 (0104 -> 0106)
ACPI: PCI Interrupt Link [LNKE] enabled at IRQ 10
ACPI: PSI Interrupt 0000:02:06.0[A] -> GSI 10 (level, low) -> IRQ 10
Yenta: CArdBus bridge found at 0000:02:06.0 [1025:0064]
Yenta: ISA IRQ mack 0x08b8, PCI irq 10
Socket status: 30000006
b44: eth0: Link is down.
Net: Registered protocol family 17
ACPI: Power Button (FF) [PWRF]
ACPI: Lid Switch [LID]
ACPI: Sleep Button (CM) [SLPB]
ibm_acpi: ec object not found
ACPI: Video device [GFX0] (multihead: yes rom: yes  post: no)
apm: BIOS not found
cs: IO port probe 0x0100 - 0x04ff: excluding 0x4d0 - 0x4d7
cs: IO port probe 0x0800 - 0x08ff: excluding 0x800 - 0x807
cs: IO port probe 0x0c00 - 0x0cff: clean
cs: IO port probe 0x0a00 - 0x0aff: clean

---

### Post by Dr. Z2A on 2005-08-26
sorry for the double post again, but I still am clueless and still need serious help with this.

---

### Post by az on 2005-08-26
The card is not being recognized when you insert it, by what you posted.  You have pcmcia_cs installed?  

I do not know what to suggest?  Hotplug should be detecting the card and loading the orinocco drivers.  Hotplug is not doing that.

I dunno.

---

