---
title: "14.04 GRUB no more Windows XP"
date: 2014-05-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by karl-muenhgausen on 2014-05-15
13.10 - ok! 14.04 no more Windows XP. :( Mageia 4 - ok, Windows 8.1 - ok. XP - no.

Have anybody some good ideas?

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-15
Have you tried grub update and grub customizer?

---

### Post by karl-muenhgausen on 2014-05-15
Course update-grub - no effect, customizer not found in 14.04 standard repository.

10*

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-15
You can install it from method mentioned here  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134)

---

### Post by karl-muenhgausen on 2014-05-15
Thanks, it`s very useful stuff, but has no relation to GRUB.

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-15
> **karl-muenhgausen said:**
> Thanks, it`s very useful stuff, but has no relation to GRUB.

It has, but...nvm

Have you tried os probing?

Boot into Ubuntu. 
Mount the partition where W-XP is.
> sudo os-prober
Type this.


Then update the grub again. If your W-XP was found, it will be there, if it wasn't ..well :P

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-05-15
If you have multiple Windows installs, grub will only find one. 
Windows only boots from the active partition or the one with the boot flag. Second installs can only boot from that active partition, so they install boot files into that partition and have no boot file of their own.

All Windows BIOS installs, but discusses mostly Vista.
       To get each MS to have its own boot loader make a second primary NTFS partition and set its boot flag on, then install the 2nd product in it. Multibooters, Pictures here worth 1000+ words - Vista but all Windows with BIOS/MBR
[http://www.multibooters.co.uk/multiboot.html](http://www.multibooters.co.uk/multiboot.html)

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2014-05-15
Or you might be able to setup a custom boot screen from the green link in my signature.
I'm booting windows 7, 3 Ubuntu systems and Linux Mint.

**sudo blkid** should show you where the partitions are even the other windows partition.

```
cavsfan@cavsfan-desktop:~$ sudo blkid
[sudo] password for cavsfan: 
/dev/sda1: LABEL="C:" UUID="1CFC7A8DFC7A60C6" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda2: LABEL="Precise" UUID="a162dc8a-e4df-4b79-b4c3-524761ff7ae1" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda3: UUID="e14dc02e-6ea8-4c95-b4d0-9dc04d32294d" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/sda5: LABEL="Utopic" UUID="7c76d1de-7439-4b55-b587-898f104235da" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda6: LABEL="Trusty" UUID="d3281f82-3582-4081-b4d7-4769a2f427c5" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda7: LABEL="Mint-Maya" UUID="77cf61db-2e8b-4531-9594-80f35ad4dc69" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sdb1: LABEL="Fantom" UUID="78B8D1A1B8D15DE6" TYPE="ntfs" 
```

Just look for the ntfs drives. I have sda1 for windows 7 and the other ntfs drive sdb1 is a 1TB USB drive.

To install grub on a particular Ubuntu just enter **sudo grub-install /dev/sdX** (X is the hard drive - a,b, etc.) while logged into that Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2014-05-15
BTW support for Windows XP ended on April 8, 2014 if you didn't already know that. ;)

---

### Post by Drowz0r on 2014-05-16
> **LastDino said:**
> You can install it from method mentioned here  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134)

I had a similar problem recently and when installing this, even though I didn't actually do anything, it seemed to get the grub loader to work again. I guess something was bumped out of place on my 14.04 update or something.

---

