---
title: "11.10 desktop launcher gnome-terminal"
date: 2012-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dln9 on 2012-02-25
Running Ubuntu 11.10.  

If, in the gnome-terminal, I run this command:  

gnome-desktop-item-edit ~/Desktop/ --create-new

I get the gui to create a desktop launcher.  

That's good.  

Well, I want to create a desktop launcher to execute that command in the gnome-terminal, so.....  

I opened up the gnome-terminal, and executed this command:  

gnome-desktop-item-edit ~/Desktop/ --create-new

and then in the resulting gui window, in the command box I entered this:  

gnome-terminal -x gnome-desktop-item-edit ~/Desktop/ --create-new

(Basically, I want a desktop launcher to create desktop launchers.)  


But, when I double click on the resulting icon on the desktop, nothing happens (as far as I can tell).  

Can someone help me understand what I am doing wrong?  

Thanks.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-02-25
Everything after the -x should be in quotes, I believe. You're basically piggybacking three commands and it's anyone's guess which arguments belong to which command, I'm sure it's getting misinterpreted. Putting the quotes in should solve the guessing game.

---

### Post by dln9 on 2012-02-25
Thanks.  

Nope, that didn't work.  I ended up getting a terminal window with this error message at the top of it:  


There was an error creating the child process for this terminal

Failed to execute child process "gnome-desktop-item-edit ~/Desktop/ --create-new" (No such file or directory)

---

