---
title: "13.10 .sh executable not working opens ubuntu software center"
date: 2013-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gunslingerar88 on 2013-11-12
Hello! Im a newbie linux user and I just installed my first game Faster Than Light. I can run it in the terminal but im trying to make a desktop shortcut. 
ok so I made a new document, named it FTL.sh then used this 

#!/bin/bash #Run FTL from anywhere 
cd ~/Downloads/Faster\ Than\ Light/FTL
./FTL 

I found from [https://getsatisfaction.com/ftlgame/topics/ubuntu_intallation](https://getsatisfaction.com/ftlgame/topics/ubuntu_intallation)
i have no idea what bin/bash is @_@
and I have right clicked--> properties-->permissions and check the allow executing file as program but when I double click it opens ubuntu software center 
and I have no clue how change it or what it should be changed to and ive tried googling  but have no been able to find what I should do. I saw some stuff about using nautilus but could not find a way to install it and did get "File manager pacmanfm"
so yeah.... can any one help me out :cry:

---

### Post by TheFu on 2013-11-12
Don't use spaces in filenames or directory names. If you do, you MUST, MUST, MUST quote them.
Seems to be that you want to create a FTL.desktop file instead, though your script can work with the quotes.
```
#!/bin/bash 
#Run FTL from anywhere
cd "~/Downloads/Faster\ Than\ Light/FTL"
./FTL 
```

Downloads is probably NOT where you want to leave programs that you install. From time to time, you will want to clean up the ~/Downloads/ directory ... wipe it completely.

Do not forget to change the file permissions for your script to be execute.  See, Linux does NOT use extensions the same way Windows does. Any file can have execute permissions ... actually, now would be a good time to spend 30 minutes with a [Linux file permissions tutor]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions") to solidify any prior knowledge you may have.

Bash is a *shell*. It is like cmd.exe or powershell.exe on Windows. It has an entire programming language and many parts of your Linux system work because bash/sh/ksh exist.  In the beginning (around 1980), shell scripting became the backbone of how to make little tools on UNIX systems and that continues today.

The alternative ...  You might want to put your FTL.desktop file on your desktop ... that is in ~/Desktop/
Edit **~/Desktop/FTL.desktop** using your favorite editor, and put these things inside it:
```
[Desktop Entry]
Name=Faster Than Light
Name[C]=Faster Than Light
Comment=Run Faster than Lite
Type=Application
Exec="~/Downloads/Faster\ Than\ Light/FTL/FTL"
Path="~/Downloads/Faster\ Than\ Light/FTL"
Terminal=0
```

Hopefully that will work. Then just double-click on the "FTL" on your desktop.

---

