---
title: "&quot;NTFS signature is missing&quot; and other ntfs-3g type issues"
date: 2008-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Thrasonic on 2008-05-24
Hi all.  My NTFS drive has never quite worked consistently with Ubuntu.  I used the NTFS-config utility to make it accessible and set it up for read/write capabilities.  Some times it works on boot-up (or as soon as I log into Ubuntu) and some times it doesn't.  I've been messing around with the fstab file today and I'm still a bit stuck.  

Basically, when I log into Ubuntu I know the drive isn't mounted because my wallpaper doesn't come up.  The wallpaper I'm using is on the NTFS drive.  If I open a terminal and type sudo mount -a I get the following message:

bubba@H04281971U804:~$ sudo mount -a
[sudo] password for bubba: 
NTFS signature is missing.
Failed to mount '/dev/sda1': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sda1' doesn't have a valid NTFS.
Maybe you selected the wrong device? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/hda, not /dev/hda1)? Or the other way around?
NTFS signature is missing.
Failed to mount '/dev/sda5': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sda5' doesn't have a valid NTFS.
Maybe you selected the wrong device? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/hda, not /dev/hda1)? Or the other way around?
bubba@H04281971U804:~$ 

I didn't find anything helpful online so I thought I'd post this here and see if you guys can help out.  Now the weird thing (weird to me, anyway) is that if I go to Places I can see the mount point, DATA, and if I click on it the NTFS partition mounts and everything is accessible.  It's just not coming up or turning immediately after I log in.  It's more of a pain or nuisance than anything else, but I'd like to permanently fix the problem if that's possible.

Here's what my fstab looks like right now:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=5e49ae15-12ed-4ba5-ab4d-d14868eca494 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=47c8b3f4-792b-4be3-8ea9-c6f93fd7a753 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
none /proc/bus/usb usbfs devgid=46,devmode=664 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/WXP ntfs-3g rw,nls=utf8,umask=0222 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/DATA ntfs-3g rw,nls=utf8,umask=0222 0 0

Let me know if anything seems amiss in all of this.  Thanks in advance for the help!

---

### Post by Thrasonic on 2008-05-24
bump

---

### Post by prshah on 2008-05-25
> **Thrasonic said:**
> 
# Entry for [color=red]/dev/sda1 :[/color]
UUID=5e49ae15-12ed-4ba5-ab4d-d14868eca494 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for [color=red]/dev/sda5 :[/color]
UUID=47c8b3f4-792b-4be3-8ea9-c6f93fd7a753 none swap sw 0 0
[color=red]/dev/sda1 [/color]/media/WXP ntfs-3g rw,nls=utf8,umask=0222 0 0
[color=red]/dev/sda5 [/color]/media/DATA ntfs-3g rw,nls=utf8,umask=0222 0 0


You have double entries for sda1 and sda5 !!

And, according to this, your sda1 is "/" and sda5 is "swap", so it's not wonder it's not mounting as ntfs. To get the correct ntfs partitions, please post your ```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by Thrasonic on 2008-06-06
Huh, I'll have to look at that again.  I see what you mean.  I'll let you know what I find.  Thanks for pointing that out.

---

