---
title: "[22.04] [Full updated] Online accounts not working"
date: 2022-04-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by patro777 on 2022-04-15
Hello Ubuntu community!
I've been working on Ubuntu 22.04 for about 2 months. Everything worked great, but with some update "online accounts" stopped working. 
I cannot add an account. Only the blank field is visible. 
I am very frustrated because I need online accounts for my professional work. I found a workaround on Reddit to disable Wayland, but I don't want to downgrade an important component to do a little fix.


[IMG]https://www.wykop.pl/cdn/c3201142/comment_1650015691tF1ZnXZ9y6rnc5TcgLVBaM.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-15
22.04 isn't released. Any issues with the beta version belongs in the Development Release subforum.

And please don't attached huge images inline. Many people pay for internet by the byte.

---

### Post by jack072 on 2022-07-24
Just upgraded form 21.10 to 22.4 and have this issue. It's unbelievable, 3 months have passed and this is still not fixed.  

WEBKIT_DISABLE_COMPOSITING_MODE=1 gnome-control-center

EGLDisplay Initialization failed: EGL_NOT_INITIALIZED
Cannot create EGL context: invalid display (last error: EGL_SUCCESS)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-07-24
Wayland isn't working with nvidia last time I checked.  I've heard that it works with intel and AMD GPUs, but don't know myself. Wayland doesn't meet the needs of my workflows. Perhaps in 5 more years, it will be mature enough to take over from the much more mature Xorg.

---

### Post by jack072 on 2023-03-14
I also have this issue, how is this still not fixed?  
I'm not on Wayland so i can't use that workaround.  

```
(WebKitWebProcess:2): Gdk-ERROR **: 07:19:09.256: The program 'WebKitWebProcess' received an X Window System error.
This probably reflects a bug in the program.
The error was 'BadDrawable (invalid Pixmap or Window parameter)'.
  (Details: serial 287 error_code 9 request_code 55 (core protocol) minor_code 0)
  (Note to programmers: normally, X errors are reported asynchronously;
   that is, you will receive the error a while after causing it.
   To debug your program, run it with the GDK_SYNCHRONIZE environment
   variable to change this behavior. You can then get a meaningful
   backtrace from your debugger if you break on the gdk_x_error() function.)
```

later edit:
I manage to add the accounts by switching to nouveau drivers then switched back to nvidia. The issue might be related to nvidia legacy drivers 340.108.

---

