---
title: "How to use custom login message in terminal"
date: 2015-04-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AbhimanyuAryan on 2015-04-06
I customised the login message in my Macbook pro but doesn't know how to do that in Ubuntu. Also, I don't wanna see the last login message like I see in this photo. All I want is the $ sign so I can begin writing clean codes. These messages are really annoying.


[IMG]http://i1313.photobucket.com/albums/t557/cooldudeabhi/Screen%20Shot%202015-04-07%20at%205.12.10%20am_zpsotyixvo9.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-04-06
I think that message is from *ssh*.  Try using the -q switch.  Otherwise put the command *clear* in ~/.profile or ~/.bashrc .

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2015-04-06
I think that message is from *ssh*.  Try using the -q switch.  Otherwise put the command *clear* in ~/.profile or ~/.bashrc .

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2015-04-07
> **AbhimanyuAryan said:**
> I customised the login message in my Macbook pro but doesn't know how to do that in Ubuntu. Also, I don't wanna see the last login message like I see in this photo. All I want is the $ sign so I can begin writing clean codes. These messages are really annoying.


The photo is gone but to take a guess about the last login message, you could turn off [PrintLastLog](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/en/man5/sshd_config.5.html) in sshd_config.  Unfortunately it seems not to work under a Match statement so you have to turn it on or off for all of your users. 

As for the custom message, see PrintMotd or Banner.  The directive Banner will work under a Match statement so you can be selective about which users or groups it applies to.  MOTD is a bit complicated in Ubuntu because it is generated by a series of scripts, so using OpenSSH's Banner directive might be easiest since it points to a plain text file.

---

