---
title: "22.04 Installing Oracle's JRE"
date: 2023-08-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ajohnl on 2023-08-26
I have download the JRE and unpacked it into a directory but how do I tell the system where it is? I need to run a couple of java app's.
The directory contains a number of sub's plus text files and one html welcome page,

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2023-08-26
I'm not sure why you down loaded something already in the Repos:
```
apt policy default-jre
default-jre:
  Installed: 2:1.17-74
  Candidate: 2:1.17-74
  Version table:
 *** 2:1.17-74 500
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu lunar/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status

```
And to run a java application just use:
```
java someapp
```
is there more i don't quite understand?

---

### Post by ajohnl on 2023-08-26
That would install the open jre and  generally java applications wont  use it

```
[FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]Command 'java' not found, but can be installed with: [/COLOR]
sudo apt install openjdk-11-jre-headless  # version 11.0.20+8-1ubuntu1~22.04, or 
sudo apt install default-jre              # version 2:1.11-72build2 
sudo apt install openjdk-17-jre-headless  # version 17.0.8+7-1~22.04 
sudo apt install openjdk-18-jre-headless  # version 18.0.2+9-2~22.04 
sudo apt install openjdk-19-jre-headless  # version 19.0.2+7-0ubuntu3~22.04 
sudo apt install openjdk-8-jre-headless   # version 8u382-ga-1~22.04.1 
[COLOR=#54ff54]**j**[/COLOR]
[/FONT]
```

A java app is usually started with something like this
[FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]java -jar LDCT v0.9.19 Java6.jar[/COLOR]
[/FONT]

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2023-08-26
> **ajohnl said:**
> That would install the open jre and  generally java applications wont  use it


I don't seem to have any problems on  my end with java applications.
But for sake of more words here's a quick DL-Link with the .deb
```
wget https://download.oracle.com/java/17/latest/jdk-17_linux-x64_bin.deb

```
I assume you know how to install it if not just ask.

---

### Post by ajohnl on 2023-08-27
I've used  Linux for ~25years but never delved  deeply other than when I need to also only remember what I use regularly. I've previously used rpm distro's but the change to deb type isn't much of a problem.

Thanks for the suggestion but for instance a headless version would be of no use and I need version 8. One app I want to use can be downloaded with it's own private jre or without. Windows and Mac versions only with.

Anyway I have had problems using the open jre in the past.  I did find instructions on installing  Oracle's on the web but it looks like the arrangement that I have seen before used when the open version is already installed. Multiple directories with different versions in them. In that particular case one was marked default.

Anyway I have refreshed my memory on how commands are scanned. The solution I will try is a link in ~/.local/bin to where the jre is installed. As that come java is in it's bin directory. I could of course do the same in directories off / but I like to keep anything not in the official repo in a separate folder to keep track of just what I have added.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2023-08-27
> **ajohnl said:**
>  I did find instructions on installing  Oracle's on the web but it looks like the arrangement that I have seen before used when the open version is already installed. Multiple directories with different versions in them. In that particular case one was marked default.

Anyway I have refreshed my memory on how commands are scanned. The solution I will try is a link in ~/.local/bin to where the jre is installed. As that come java is in it's bin directory. I could of course do the same in directories off / but I like to keep anything not in the official repo in a separate folder to keep track of just what I have added.
Well you can switch between them, check available Java versions on your Linux system by using update-alternatives command:
```
sudo update-alternatives --display java
```
Mine is just using the open source, but just a view:
```
java - auto mode
  link best version is /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/bin/java
  link currently points to /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/bin/java
  link java is /usr/bin/java
  slave java.1.gz is /usr/share/man/man1/java.1.gz
/usr/lib/jvm/java-11-openjdk-amd64/bin/java - priority 1111
  slave java.1.gz: /usr/lib/jvm/java-11-openjdk-amd64/man/man1/java.1.gz
/usr/lib/jvm/java-14-openjdk-amd64/bin/java - priority 1411
  slave java.1.gz: /usr/lib/jvm/java-14-openjdk-amd64/man/man1/java.1.gz
/usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/bin/java - priority 1711
  slave java.1.gz: /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/man/man1/java.1.gz

```
if you do have both installed a switch is fairly easy:
```
sudo update-alternatives --config java
There are 3 choices for the alternative java (providing /usr/bin/java).

  Selection    Path                                         Priority   Status
------------------------------------------------------------
* 0            /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/bin/java   1711      auto mode
  1            /usr/lib/jvm/java-11-openjdk-amd64/bin/java   1111      manual mode
  2            /usr/lib/jvm/java-14-openjdk-amd64/bin/java   1411      manual mode
  3            /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/bin/java   1711      manual mode

Press <enter> to keep the current choice[*], or type selection number: 

```
On mine it is using "* 0            /usr/lib/jvm/java-17-openjdk-amd64/bin/java   1711      auto mode"
Sorry I'm not much help for you.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2023-08-27
A Java Runtime Environment has more than just the 'java' executable, not to even mention the number of programs in a full jdk. To switch all the executables and their man-pages and other related files use update-java-alternatives instead of update-alternatives. This uses hidden files in /usr/lib/jvm with the extension '.jinfo' with lists of files to switch around to work. All the JRE versions in the repositories install such a file but I am not sure about Oracles's JRE. They have no great love for standards they haven't invented themselves ...

Holger

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2023-08-27
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
> I am not sure about Oracles's JRE. They have no great love for standards they haven't invented themselves ...

Holger
nicely said +1
At one time they just followed Canonical and that's my rule of thumb as well.
Great Point Holger

---

### Post by ajohnl on 2023-08-27
My only concern is which version the app needs and that is v8. They are also cross platform apps and particular  ones  wont work with a headless jre.. It seems that the open jdk can be registered in dev kit  such as netbeans past that compatibility isn't clear. Oracle's jdk is enormous. In the past I have been known to download the lot to get the jre and have it all linked together.

It seems that increasingly browsers do not need the java plug in. Sandbox or not.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2023-08-27
> **ajohnl said:**
> My only concern is which version the app needs and that is v8. They are also cross platform apps and particular  ones  wont work with a headless jre.. It seems that the open jdk can be registered in dev kit  such as netbeans past that compatibility isn't clear. Oracle's jdk is enormous. In the past I have been known to download the lot to get the jre and have it all linked together.

It seems that increasingly browsers do not need the java plug in. Sandbox or not.

openjdk-8-jre is in the repositories. I prefer running software that is actually packaged for the system I'm running to non-specific tarballs ...

And browsers stopped supporting the Netscape Plugin API (NPAPI) that the Java browser plugin used years ago - between 2015 and 2017 - so applets are a thing of the past in all modern browsers. You'd need some ancient (and therefore insecure) browser to use those. I think the openjdk-8-jdk still comes with an appletviewer that can be used to run those outside of a browser.

Holger

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-08-28
Lots of JAVA IDE applications like JAVA Beans and or Eclipse you can run multiple version of the JAVA JDK and select the target version in the project creation, as well as what the default version.

The settings that mattered for the system and initial startup, all it takes to install the JAVA JRE these days is
```

sudo apt install default-jre

```
And it takes care of everything. It get's a a bit more detailed and such when you start installing multiple versions on the same machine... Then you use 'update-java-alternatives ' and set the $JAVA_HOME variable.

---

### Post by ajohnl on 2023-08-29
Thanks all but I can appreciate an multiplatfrom app developer wanting all platforms to use the same source for the jre they use.
This link after a fashion explains why
[https://www.ibm.com/blog/jvm-vs-jre-vs-jdk-whats-the-difference/](https://www.ibm.com/blog/jvm-vs-jre-vs-jdk-whats-the-difference/)
Ir totally abstracts the platform the code is run on.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-08-29
I have been doing JAVA programming for a few decades. I can tell you that there are other current languages which are a better choice now for doing cross-platform development. That part of my skills is not much in demand these days.

The JAVA library itself keeps having vulnerabilities found for it, so keeps changing, making current code an ever changing challenge.

---

