---
title: "14.04 Nautilus crash, no desktop - bus error"
date: 2015-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by billpc2684 on 2015-05-04
My mom installed 14.04 on my laptop and I use it all the time.  Yesterday I was watching YouTube videos on Chrome and working on my project in Blender when the file browser crashed and now I can't see my desktop.  A reboot didn't help.  I installed the Dolphin file browser so I can access my files but Mom wanted to see if she could fix the problem.  I didn't install anything new or mess with any files systems immediately prior to the initial crash.

We tried to open Nautilus from the terminal and it opened for a few seconds then immediately crashed.  The terminal gave us "Bus error (core dumped)".

We reinstalled Nautilus from the terminal and it did the same.  Opened for only a few seconds before crashing with the "Bus error (core dumped)" message.

We were unable to find a similar enough tread here or on a google search that could help fix the problem so we're asking here for help.  I can access my files with Dolphin browser and I seem to be able to access all my other programs just fine.  Not having a desktop is just a bit inconvenient and I'd like to learn how to fix it if someone knows how.  I'm a beginner with Ubuntu systems and Mom hasn't used Ubuntu since 2010 so we're both out of ideas.

Thanks!

---

### Post by aasullivan1618 on 2016-02-01
Same thing just happened to me. The major noticeable side effects are that nautilus seems to open, displays its loading indicator for about 3 or 4 seconds, then turns grey and eventually disappears, and that the desktop image I usually has has been replaced by blackness, and right clicking on it has no effect (no dropdown appears). Loading from the terminal gives me exactly the same thing as you described:

```

$ nautilus
Bus error (core dumped)

```

---

