---
title: "12.04-Get Synaptic with Sudo privilege on desktop as shortcut?"
date: 2012-07-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-22
Has anyone else with Gnome-classic in 12.04 been able to get Synaptic as a Desktop shortcut, with Sudo privileges?

I can not even get it as on the panel as a shortcut; I have to use "sudo synaptic" in Termnal.
Thanks!

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-07-22
I have it working OK as a desktop launcher on my 12.04 box, al;so using classic desktop.  I just dragged it to the desktop from the menu on the gnome-panel and it worked straight away, asking for my password when I double click on it just like the menu item does.  I also have it on the panel itself as a launcher.

How did you put the launcher on your desktop?

By the way, the command from terminal should be **gksu synaptic** as you should never use sudo for any GUI applications; sudo is for terminal (command line) applications only.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-22
It was on a launcher shortcut on the 10.04 desktop, now I can't even get it anywhere; not even in the pulldown menus, let alone the panel.
I have deleted it and reinstalled and still no GUI menu selectoin for Synaptic anywhere.

Oh, and thanks for the gksu note - strange that one SU ring doesn't fit them all... :)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-07-23
Have you actually installed synaptic?

It was removed from the default OS in either 11.10 or 12.04 in favour of software-center, the latter of which I avoid totally;  I don't think I have ever used it since it appeared several versions ago.

Sorry if this is the case for you, but I made an assumption that you had it installed already.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-23
Yes, I have installed it - and removed and reinstalled it. Strange that it does not show up anywhere as a shortcut or menu, but it's  installed.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-07-23
OK, so now see if you get any error messages in terminal from the command ```
gksu synaptic
```

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-23
No it works fine - I just don't have any icons, shortcuts or anything.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-07-24
So let's see what happens if you use the synaptic.txt file attached.  Rename it synaptic.desktop, make sure it is executable, and put it in your home Desktop folder.

This is my synaptic launcher from my own 12.04 Desktop and it works fine.  Note that the command is not **gksu synaptic** or **gksudo synaptic**, but **synaptic-pkexec**, which I have never heard of before, but perhaps that's because I've never looked before. However, I have just tried changing the command to gksu synaptic and the launcher still works fine.

I think ownership should pass to you when you download it, but check that out.

---

