---
title: "keyboard ctrl,shift,caps not working"
date: 2008-06-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mastermindg on 2008-06-11
this is an intermittent issue with hardy. as you can see, shift does not work at this time. this issue only affects ctrl,shift, and caps. any idea why this is happening /

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2008-06-11
Is there any time that all the keys will work?  When does the problem switch keys?  Also can you post your Xorg file?

```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by mastermindg on 2008-06-11
it does work sometimes. i'm thinking it might be related to either the x11 settings or vmware, these are the only things that haven't been changed since i installed, and i've always had the problem, atleast intermittently. i've forced it too clear once or twice by going into keyboard layout and changing it and then changing back.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" RightOf "Screen1"
    Screen      1  "Screen1" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"

# Removed Option "Xinerama" "0"
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Proview"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     60.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic VX1935wm-3"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8500 GT"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8500 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1440x900 +0+0, CRT-1: 1440x900 +1440+0; CRT-0: 1024x768 +0+0, CRT-1: 1024x768 +1024+0"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1440x900 +0+0, DFP: NULL; CRT: 1024x768 +0+0, DFP: NULL; CRT: 1440x900 +1440+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT: 1024x768 +1440+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT: nvidia-auto-select +1440+0, DFP: 1440x900 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT: 1024x768 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard1"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x1024 +0+0; CRT: 1024x768 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1440x900 +0+0; DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
EndSection

---

### Post by mastermindg on 2008-06-11
I changed my keyboard layout to Microsoft Nature Elite, it's not my model, but it's close.

Working now.

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2008-06-11
Wow, your is different than what I am used to, Nvidia looks like it changes it alot.  I'm gonna bring in some reinforcements on this one.  I was gonna look at your keyboard layout.
Also can you try another keyboard? Just to see if the problem is with the keyboard.

---

### Post by anthonykirby on 2009-02-17
> **mastermindg said:**
> this is an intermittent issue with hardy. as you can see, shift does not work at this time. this issue only affects ctrl,shift, and caps. any idea why this is happening /

sometimes happens when running VMware

workaround is to run "setxkbmap" 

Ant

---

### Post by forestwalkerjoe on 2009-02-20
Mine is a bit different than yours. 
I have a Dell Multimedia keyboard.. and after the new install of a WUBI.. new to this Ubuntu.. i had keyboard.. no problem. 3 weeks have gone by and i have to assume one of the updates did this.. but .. all my keys work fine.. including shift and caps lock.. UNLESS i am typing left or Right shift the letter c. I can not get a cap of Letter c. 
i am not sure what changed but i am sure some where the layout has changed the letter c to some thing i am not sure what. 
when i type the letter c after caps or shift there is just nothing. All Other letters TYPE IN LARGE caps JUST FINE.. as you can see.. with the exception of just that ONE letter. 
I have tried a few layouts.. and nothing changes. this layout has one disadvantage.. i was able to use caps lock and hit c and get cap of letter c.. now i can't even do that. 
please , some one help.. I type a lot in here. 

FWJ

---

### Post by greenscar on 2010-09-07
> **anthonykirby said:**
> sometimes happens when running VMware

workaround is to run "setxkbmap" 

Ant

i got the same problem... and i was using VMWare at the moment so i used setxkbmap and its solved
thx

---

