---
title: "9.04 gnome chess bombs in 3d view"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alfkh on 2009-04-28
hi ubuntu community,

As in previous releases of ubuntu, when you want run chess in 3d view, install python-opengl & python-gtkglext1. This i did.

Games-> chess
Screen comes on briefly, then bombs!

so i went to /usr/games/glchess
Here's the error message :
 
alvinh@linux016:/usr/games$ ./glchess
/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/network.py:73: DeprecationWarning: BaseException.message has been deprecated as of Python 2.6
  print 'Failed to load GGZ config: %s' % e.message
Failed to load GGZ config: 
Using OpenGL:
VENDOR=Tungsten Graphics, Inc.
RENDERER=Mesa DRI Radeon 20061018 AGP 4x x86/MMX/SSE2 TCL
VERSION=1.3 Mesa 7.4
EXTENSIONS=GL_ARB_imaging GL_ARB_multisample GL_ARB_multitexture GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp GL_ARB_texture_compression GL_ARB_texture_cube_map GL_ARB_texture_env_add GL_ARB_texture_env_combine GL_ARB_texture_env_crossbar GL_ARB_texture_env_dot3 GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat GL_ARB_texture_rectangle GL_ARB_transpose_matrix GL_ARB_vertex_buffer_object GL_ARB_window_pos GL_EXT_abgr GL_EXT_bgra GL_EXT_blend_color GL_EXT_blend_logic_op GL_EXT_blend_minmax GL_EXT_blend_subtract GL_EXT_clip_volume_hint GL_EXT_compiled_vertex_array GL_EXT_convolution GL_EXT_copy_texture GL_EXT_draw_range_elements GL_EXT_fog_coord GL_EXT_histogram GL_EXT_packed_pixels GL_EXT_polygon_offset GL_EXT_rescale_normal GL_EXT_secondary_color GL_EXT_separate_specular_color GL_EXT_stencil_wrap GL_EXT_subtexture GL_EXT_texture GL_EXT_texture3D GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp GL_EXT_texture_env_add GL_EXT_texture_env_combine GL_EXT_texture_env_dot3 GL_EXT_texture_filter_anisotropic GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias GL_EXT_texture_mirror_clamp GL_EXT_texture_object GL_EXT_texture_rectangle GL_EXT_vertex_array GL_APPLE_packed_pixels GL_ATI_texture_env_combine3 GL_ATI_texture_mirror_once GL_IBM_rasterpos_clip GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat GL_MESA_ycbcr_texture GL_MESA_window_pos GL_NV_blend_square GL_NV_light_max_exponent GL_NV_texture_rectangle GL_NV_texgen_reflection GL_OES_read_format GL_SGI_color_matrix GL_SGI_color_table GL_SGIS_generate_mipmap GL_SGIS_texture_border_clamp GL_SGIS_texture_edge_clamp GL_SGIS_texture_lod
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/gtkui/chessview.py", line 168, in __expose
    self.view.feedback.renderGL()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/display.py", line 489, in renderGL
    self.scene.controller.render()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/scene/opengl/opengl.py", line 396, in render
    self.drawPieces()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/scene/opengl/opengl.py", line 897, in drawPieces
    piece.draw()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/scene/opengl/opengl.py", line 143, in draw
    self.chessSet.drawPiece(self.name, state, self.scene)
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/scene/opengl/new_models.py", line 111, in drawPiece
    if glGetBoolean(GL_TEXTURE_2D):
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/wrapper.py", line 1631, in __call__
    return self.finalise()( *args, **named )
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/wrapper.py", line 683, in wrapperCall
    converter( pyArgs, index, self )
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/converters.py", line 195, in __call__
    return self.arrayType.zeros( self.getSize(pyArgs) )
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/arrays/arraydatatype.py", line 98, in zeros
    return cls.returnHandler().zeros( dims, typeCode or cls.typeConstant )
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/arrays/nones.py", line 32, in zeros
    raise TypeError( """Can't create NULL pointer filled with values""" )
TypeError: ("Can't create NULL pointer filled with values", 'Failure in cConverter <OpenGL.converters.SizedOutput object at 0xa60fc6c>', [GL_TEXTURE_2D], 1, <OpenGL.wrapper.glGetIntegerv object at 0xa61eacc>)

sh: bug-buddy: not found
alvinh@linux016:/usr/games$ 

Any ideas?
alf(kh) :confused:

---

### Post by skymera on 2009-04-28
I also would like to know a solution.

I installed the correct packages on 9.04 and it bombs out on me too :(

---

### Post by alfkh on 2009-04-28
Followed this thread (it's 2 pages long), but their solution doesn't work for me. 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=791294&highlight=chess+python+minimum](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=791294&highlight=chess+python+minimum)

This is the essence of watt they said.
I had to reinstall python2.5-minimal. I did
sudo apt-get clean
and then did a reinstall of python2.5-minimal from synaptic.

by the looks of the error message, 1 prob has turned into 2 probs,
1. there r some issues with python2.6
2. i did apt-get clean &
apt-get install python2.5-minimal,

Naturally this didn't help since this isn't the problem. 8.10 (i have another partition in the same computer) doesn't seem to have that problem. i can move from 3d to 2d mode w/o any issues.

alf(kh)

---

### Post by skymera on 2009-04-28
It requires bug-buddy i think.

Though bug-buddy depends on every rubbish app from GNOME:
Evolution
Rhythmbox
and lots of other apps are to be installed.

Brutal Chess works 3D and has reflection. No sound and is very hard (or im very bad)

---

### Post by cupantae on 2009-05-10
Same problem here. It's worth noting that:
[LIST]
[*]I can only turn off the 3D through gconf-editor or by editing an XML file by hand, which is hardly what a human being would do.
[*]The deprecation warning still appears when the game is run in normal 2D mode:
```
/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/network.py:73: DeprecationWarning: BaseException.message has been deprecated as of Python 2.6
  print 'Failed to load GGZ config: %s' % e.message
Failed to load GGZ config:
```
[/LIST]
...although the rest is omitted this time. If you get this normally (it also takes slightly longer than you would expect to start up), then, as alfkh says, the python "fix" won't do much good.

---

### Post by JohnWesleyMethodist on 2009-05-13
I have the very same problem and it's Ubuntu 9.04 that I have it with. 8.10 worked fine in 3D.

I chose to completely un-install Python-Opengl and Python-Gtkglext1 and now I can at least open Chess again.

---

### Post by Matthewthegreat on 2009-05-13
I have the same problem too :( I hope it gets fixed soon

---

### Post by alfkh on 2009-05-19
Now the only thing is, who do wee need 2 make aware of the 'problem' 

Any-1 out there tried it with ext-3 yet? i'm running ext-4 right now. At the moment, it's more imp 2 me that everything else runs on ext-4. i doubt it's a ext-4 filesystem prob, more likely the linux 2.6 kernel. 

alfkh

---

### Post by skymera on 2009-05-19
I run DreamChess.

It's in the repos i think :) 3D and works on 9.04

---

### Post by Matthewthegreat on 2009-05-19
> **alfkh said:**
> Now the only thing is, who do wee need 2 make aware of the 'problem' 

Any-1 out there tried it with ext-3 yet? i'm running ext-4 right now. At the moment, it's more imp 2 me that everything else runs on ext-4. i doubt it's a ext-4 filesystem prob, more likely the linux 2.6 kernel. 

alfkh

I run ext-3

BTW, I run 64-bit any one had this prob in 32-bit

---

### Post by JohnWesleyMethodist on 2009-05-19
> **alfkh said:**
> Now the only thing is, who do wee need 2 make aware of the 'problem' 

Any-1 out there tried it with ext-3 yet? i'm running ext-4 right now. At the moment, it's more imp 2 me that everything else runs on ext-4. i doubt it's a ext-4 filesystem prob, more likely the linux 2.6 kernel. 

alfkh

 I experienced this issue with Ext-3 on Jaunty.

 I decided to downgrade back to Intrepid which always worked beautifully for me. I had a couple of other minor issues with Jaunty and decided it's not worth the bother.

 From what I have read too, it seems it's best to just run the LTS versions, because they tend to have less issues. At least that is what people say. Not only that, but since I feel the need to reconfigure each little detail of my system, I hate reinstalling my OS so often.

---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-05-19
> **JohnWesleyMethodist said:**
> I experienced this issue with Ext-3 on Jaunty.

 I decided to downgrade back to Intrepid which always worked beautifully for me. I had a couple of other minor issues with Jaunty and decided it's not worth the bother.

 From what I have read too, it seems it's best to just run the LTS versions, because they tend to have less issues. At least that is what people say. Not only that, but since I feel the need to reconfigure each little detail of my system, I hate reinstalling my OS so often.

interpid is not LTS, do you mean hardy?

---

### Post by JohnWesleyMethodist on 2009-05-20
> **chriskin said:**
> interpid is not LTS, do you mean hardy?

 No I mean Intrepid. Intrepid was my first Linux OS. I reverted to Intrepid because it worked beautifully for me and is now working beautifully for me again.

 In the future however, I intend to stick only with Long Term Support releases as - some say - they are more stable and less likely to have problems like - perhaps - the ones Jaunty gave me.

---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-05-20
> **JohnWesleyMethodist said:**
> No I mean Intrepid. Intrepid was my first Linux OS. I reverted to Intrepid because it worked beautifully for me and is now working beautifully for me again.

 In the future however, I intend to stick only with Long Term Support releases as - some say - they are more stable and less likely to have problems like - perhaps - the ones Jaunty gave me.

oh sorry, i understood another thing.

it might be true, but hardy was not all that stable for me , less stable than intrepid that was, in its own term, less stable than jaunty. 
i saw the problem with chess though, and it is a serious bug 
anyway, good thing is, everything else works on jaunty :)

---

### Post by jukzh on 2009-06-09
Hello All!
I was shocked by this output
What's wrong?
9.04
```

$ glchess 
get fences failed: -1
param: 6, val: 0
/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/network.py:73: DeprecationWarning: BaseException.message has been deprecated as of Python 2.6
  print 'Failed to load GGZ config: %s' % e.message
Failed to load GGZ config: 
Using OpenGL:
VENDOR=Tungsten Graphics, Inc
RENDERER=Mesa DRI Intel(R) 915GM GEM 20090326 2009Q1 RC2 x86/MMX/SSE2
VERSION=1.4 Mesa 7.4
EXTENSIONS=GL_ARB_depth_texture GL_ARB_fragment_program GL_ARB_multisample GL_ARB_multitexture GL_ARB_pixel_buffer_object GL_ARB_point_parameters GL_ARB_shadow GL_ARB_texture_border_clamp GL_ARB_texture_compression GL_ARB_texture_cube_map GL_ARB_texture_env_add GL_ARB_texture_env_combine GL_ARB_texture_env_crossbar GL_ARB_texture_env_dot3 GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat GL_ARB_texture_non_power_of_two GL_ARB_texture_rectangle GL_ARB_transpose_matrix GL_ARB_vertex_buffer_object GL_ARB_vertex_program GL_ARB_window_pos GL_EXT_abgr GL_EXT_bgra GL_EXT_blend_color GL_EXT_blend_equation_separate GL_EXT_blend_func_separate GL_EXT_blend_logic_op GL_EXT_blend_minmax GL_EXT_blend_subtract GL_EXT_clip_volume_hint GL_EXT_cull_vertex GL_EXT_compiled_vertex_array GL_EXT_copy_texture GL_EXT_draw_range_elements GL_EXT_framebuffer_object GL_EXT_fog_coord GL_EXT_multi_draw_arrays GL_EXT_packed_depth_stencil GL_EXT_packed_pixels GL_EXT_pixel_buffer_object GL_EXT_point_parameters GL_EXT_polygon_offset GL_EXT_rescale_normal GL_EXT_secondary_color GL_EXT_separate_specular_color GL_EXT_shadow_funcs GL_EXT_stencil_wrap GL_EXT_subtexture GL_EXT_texture GL_EXT_texture3D GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp GL_EXT_texture_env_add GL_EXT_texture_env_combine GL_EXT_texture_env_dot3 GL_EXT_texture_filter_anisotropic GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias GL_EXT_texture_object GL_EXT_texture_rectangle GL_EXT_vertex_array GL_3DFX_texture_compression_FXT1 GL_APPLE_client_storage GL_APPLE_packed_pixels GL_ATI_blend_equation_separate GL_ATI_texture_env_combine3 GL_IBM_rasterpos_clip GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat GL_INGR_blend_func_separate GL_MESA_pack_invert GL_MESA_ycbcr_texture GL_MESA_window_pos GL_NV_blend_square GL_NV_light_max_exponent GL_NV_point_sprite GL_NV_texture_rectangle GL_NV_texgen_reflection GL_NV_vertex_program GL_NV_vertex_program1_1 GL_OES_read_format GL_SGIS_generate_mipmap GL_SGIS_texture_border_clamp GL_SGIS_texture_edge_clamp GL_SGIS_texture_lod GL_SGIX_depth_texture GL_SUN_multi_draw_arrays
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/gtkui/chessview.py", line 168, in __expose
    self.view.feedback.renderGL()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/display.py", line 489, in renderGL
    self.scene.controller.render()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/scene/opengl/opengl.py", line 396, in render
    self.drawPieces()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/scene/opengl/opengl.py", line 897, in drawPieces
    piece.draw()
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/scene/opengl/opengl.py", line 143, in draw
    self.chessSet.drawPiece(self.name, state, self.scene)
  File "/var/lib/python-support/python2.6/glchess/scene/opengl/new_models.py", line 111, in drawPiece
    if glGetBoolean(GL_TEXTURE_2D):
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/wrapper.py", line 1631, in __call__
    return self.finalise()( *args, **named )
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/wrapper.py", line 683, in wrapperCall
    converter( pyArgs, index, self )
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/converters.py", line 195, in __call__
    return self.arrayType.zeros( self.getSize(pyArgs) )
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/arrays/arraydatatype.py", line 98, in zeros
    return cls.returnHandler().zeros( dims, typeCode or cls.typeConstant )
  File "/usr/lib/python2.6/dist-packages/OpenGL/arrays/nones.py", line 32, in zeros
    raise TypeError( """Can't create NULL pointer filled with values""" )
TypeError: ("Can't create NULL pointer filled with values", 'Failure in cConverter <OpenGL.converters.SizedOutput object at 0x951cca4>', [GL_TEXTURE_2D], 1, <OpenGL.wrapper.glGetIntegerv object at 0x952cacc>)

sh: bug-buddy: not found


```
Regards,
JK

---

### Post by MadnessRed on 2009-06-13
> **JohnWesleyMethodist said:**
> No I mean Intrepid. Intrepid was my first Linux OS. I reverted to Intrepid because it worked beautifully for me and is now working beautifully for me again.

 In the future however, I intend to stick only with Long Term Support releases as - some say - they are more stable and less likely to have problems like - perhaps - the ones Jaunty gave me.

I couldn't install 9.10 inntrepid as the install live cd booted into a resolution my screen didn't like, both 9.04 and 8.04 installed, not sure how happy I am with 9.04 though.

> **Matthewthegreat said:**
> I run ext-3
BTW, I run 64-bit any one had this prob in 32-bit

I have the problem in 32bt

---

### Post by JohnWesleyMethodist on 2009-06-15
> **MadnessRed said:**
> I couldn't install 8.10 Intrepid as the install live cd booted into a resolution my screen didn't like, both 9.04 and 8.04 installed, not sure how happy I am with 9.04 though.

 Well, there is no consistent verdict from anyone which OS is the more stable. You can only judge that by a huge poll, or by testing all versions on the same hardware.

 This is especially true when someone is using Linux certified hardware vs an older pc. I have an older Dell laptop.

---

### Post by rednick on 2009-06-15
I got this on jaunty 64 bit.
Check the python-opengl package in synaptic.  If you're running beta 6 upgrade to this one.

[https://launchpad.net/~robert-ancell/+archive/ppa/+files/python-opengl_3.0.0-1ubuntu1_all.deb](https://launchpad.net/~robert-ancell/+archive/ppa/+files/python-opengl_3.0.0-1ubuntu1_all.deb)

fixed my chess crashes.

---

### Post by Matthewthegreat on 2009-06-15
> **rednick said:**
> I got this on jaunty 64 bit.
Check the python-opengl package in synaptic.  If you're running beta 6 upgrade to this one.

[https://launchpad.net/~robert-ancell/+archive/ppa/+files/python-opengl_3.0.0-1ubuntu1_all.deb](https://launchpad.net/~robert-ancell/+archive/ppa/+files/python-opengl_3.0.0-1ubuntu1_all.deb)

fixed my chess crashes.
 
Fixed it for me too! Thanks!

---

### Post by CoreyB. on 2009-06-15
> **rednick said:**
> I got this on jaunty 64 bit.
Check the python-opengl package in synaptic.  If you're running beta 6 upgrade to this one.

[https://launchpad.net/~robert-ancell/+archive/ppa/+files/python-opengl_3.0.0-1ubuntu1_all.deb](https://launchpad.net/~robert-ancell/+archive/ppa/+files/python-opengl_3.0.0-1ubuntu1_all.deb)

fixed my chess crashes.

That is correct, the bug report for this was closed today and the fixed python-opengl is in karmic.

---

### Post by MadnessRed on 2009-06-21
btw, for those who are stuck on the broken live chess, here is how to get back to 2d

Alt+F2 type in gconf-editor.
Go to apps/glchess and click on the folder in the elft pain, a laod of options appear on the right.
UNtick the checkbox show_3d and maybe show_3d_smotth if it is alreay selected. This returns to 2d.

The posted deb fixed it for me, but ni all honesty I don't see what all the fuss was abotu this 3d mode is rubbish for me :(. Maybe it can be imporved.

---

### Post by alfkh on 2009-07-03
Good day all,

so sorry i've not been online lately. 1st of all, good to see that i've gotten the attention of 
1. Matthew-the-great gospel writer
2. wesley the fellow methodist

something puzzling for everyone; out of curiousity, i installed UE 2.2 (ultimate edition) tonight.
[http://ultimateedition.info/](http://ultimateedition.info/)

it's an ubuntu 9.04 (jaunty jackalope) derivative. Know what? 3d-chess works beautifully!!! =D>

watt did they do in UE 2.2 to fix it?

alf

---

### Post by Zenth on 2009-09-13
Hello!

I Have the same problem but I found the solution :D, glchess don't show one dependency needed for 3D, install the packet **Python-Numy** and Gnome Chess in 3D works great!

Play chess! :KS

---

### Post by dtcostelloe on 2009-10-04
Just wanted to say thanks to rednick; this trick / upgrade made it work again.

---

### Post by aliaomt on 2009-10-05
thanx but;
python-numy
OR
python-numpy

---

### Post by Nightstrike2009 on 2009-11-05
I ain't tried it yet but i'd say its **python-numpy** as python-numy doesn't appear in ubuntu's packages search engine **python-numpty** does.

PS: Not trying to patronise just trying to help out :)

---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-11-05
> **Zenth said:**
> Hello!

I Have the same problem but I found the solution :D, glchess don't show one dependency needed for 3D, install the packet **Python-Numy** and Gnome Chess in 3D works great!

Play chess! :KS

i have that package and still 3d won't work
bug-buddy solved the problem as far as i remember, but it takes a LOT of space for no reason

---

