---
title: "Calling all Squid gurus"
date: 2006-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jcl on 2006-02-06
Howdy,

I am trying to set up squid to explicitly allow only machines on my wlan that I specify by IP address.

Squid server: 192.168.1.103
machine A:192.168.1.100
machine B:192.168.1.101

I want to allow machine A access *only* and deny all others.

acl all src 0.0.0.0/0.0.0.0
acl localmachines src 192.168.1.100
http_access allow localmachines
http_access deny all

Denies access to everyone.

acl all src 0.0.0.0/0.0.0.0
acl localmachines src 192.168.1.103
http_access allow localmachines
http_access deny all

Allows access to everyone.

I have enabled verbose debugging and in the cache.log I can see that the squid server thinks that all three machines are 192.168.1.103.
I have blocked http for machine A and machine B at the router and set all browsers to use 192.168.1.103:8080 as the proxy server (with iptables rules forwarding port 8080 to the default squid port on the server)... my question is, why does the squid server think machine A and B are 192.168.1.103?!?!
All linksys devices if that makes a difference.

Thanks!

---

### Post by gruepig on 2006-02-07
Most likely, the squid server thinks all of your machines are 192.168.1.103 because of the iptables forwarding rule you have.

Using iptables port redirection (PAT) with squid is useful if you want to have a transparent proxy so you don't have to configure the browsers to use proxy servers at all.  If you are configuring your web browsers, why not just configure them to use the port that squid is listening on and save the redirect entirely?   (If you'd prefer, you can change the port that squid listens on.)

You should be able to get the ACLs to work properly with port redirection though.  What is the iptables rule you are using?

For transproxy (no browser-side configuration) I think you would want something like 'iptables -t nat -A PREROUTING -i eth0 192.168.1.0/255.255.255.0 -d ! 192.168.1.103 -p tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-port 3128'.  You'd also need to enable some of the httpd_accel options in squid.conf.

---

### Post by jcl on 2006-02-07
Thanks for the reply,

I'm having the requests go to port 8080 initially to go to dansguardian, then it goes to the squid port. So when using iptables and a request comes into port 8080 then ultimately goes to the squid port, the requestors IP address morphs into 192.168.1.103? That's a bummer. Here are the iptables rules I'm loading at boot:

# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.1 on Fri Feb  3 15:06:46 2006
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [1:256]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [1:260]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [1:260]
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -m owner --uid-owner squid -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 3128 -m owner --uid-owner squid -j ACCEPT
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 80 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
-A OUTPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport 3128 -j REDIRECT --to-ports 8080
COMMIT


dansguardian is listening on 8080 and squid on 3128.

Thanks!

---

### Post by dacky on 2006-05-11
I have scoured the forums for help but nothing is clear.  i think what you have will help me.  I want to run squid, squidGuard, and dansguardian but cannot figure out the proxy part.  I am not very good at linux, so am really struggling.  I understand how to edit squid.conf and dansguardian.conf and set the ports.  But I do not know how to get them to work.  There is something about transproxy.  What did you do that worked?  How did you use the file you gave?  Then, did you have to do anything with your browser?  I want to use this with ltsp on a small network but also have windows machines access the internet through Ubuntu server as well.  Help. . .

---

### Post by ice60 on 2006-05-11
hi, there was an article in a recent UK magazine about Squid, sometimes articles are put online, i'll have alook for the magazine abit later, but i've found this, maybe it will help??

**[color=red]NOTE[/color]** it's a PDF
[http://www.linux-magazine.com/issue/60/Squid_Proxy_Server.pdf](http://www.linux-magazine.com/issue/60/Squid_Proxy_Server.pdf)

 i found this too
[http://www.linuxhelp.net/guides/squid/](http://www.linuxhelp.net/guides/squid/)

---

