---
title: "Diabetes- compliant Meals Software"
date: 2006-03-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sweeney276 on 2006-03-20
I'm not sure if this is the correct forum to post this in, but as I'm a Kubuntu user, here goes :-)

I have recently been diagnosed as having full-blown Type 2 diabetes and have been working with my Diabetic Nurse and doctor to formulate a food intake regime based on the glycemic index and glygemic load (G.I./G.L.).  This is an index of foods that produce various levels of blood glucose within 2 hours of being ingested, and methods by which the load of glucose production can be spread over a period.

I have turned towards the recipe generating programs in Linux (which seem to be Krecipes and Gourmet) and also the database of nutritional information found in Nut.  None of these programs give a suggested meal plan for the week based on G.I./G.L., in order that I can shop according to my dietary needs.

There are books that will help, but they are expensive and poring over the data in them is something best left to a computer, with a short backup book just in case.

Apparently, there are programs in Windows that claim to do this, but as none I've been able to find runs under Wine and the data on them is not in a standard MealMaster or MasterCook format, I can't run them with Kubuntu.  Does anybody know of a program in Linux that is compatible with Kubuntu that will do this?

For me its an ABSOLUTE requirement that I have this information, so if I'm not to join Bill Gates' army again, could somebody please point me in the right direction?

---

### Post by dermotti on 2006-03-20
Microsoft really owns you now!

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2006-03-20
"Nut-nutrition" 
Brief discription from repository hope it helps

 ... NUT ... records what you eat and analyzes your meals
for nutrient levels in terms of the "Daily Value" of DV
which is the standard for food labeling in the US. The
program uses the free food composition database from the
USDA.... By experimenting, you can find the optimal level
of the various nutrients and how to implement this with
foods available to you. NUT can help reconstruct the lost
instruction manual to your care and feeding because, when
authorities and crackpots disagree on the proper human
diet, you can design an experiment using the food composition
tables to discover the truth!

You,ll find this in your repositorys

---

### Post by sweeney276 on 2006-03-20
As I said, NUT (alternative name nut-nutrition) doesn't provide what I want.

It provides an analysis of foods if you input a food, but it doesn't give the glycemic index/glycemic load for the food.  Also, it doesn't give recipes, just an analysis of food in a US-centric format.  For instance, if you input Bran Flakes, it gives the analysis for Malt-o-Meal Bran Flakes and Ralston Enr Bran Flakes, neither of which are known here in the UK and which differ significantly in their analysis.  The analysis for either doesn't show how much blood glucose is generated by them in a 2 hour period.

I am writing to both the developers of Krecipes and Gourmet to see if the G.I./G.L. information can be included in the database and a weekly meal planner generated on the G.L. information.  However, nut-nutrition makes no pretence of being a recipe program with a meal planner, and the developer does not want to go down that road.

However, I am still holding out some hope that somebody knows of a program that would meet my criteria.

---

### Post by coolclassic on 2006-03-20
Sorry didn't read your message properly. I did abit of googling and found the following web sight [http://www.programurl.com/nutrigenie-optimal-nutrition.htm](http://www.programurl.com/nutrigenie-optimal-nutrition.htm)

This program runs under windows but if you have wine installed the program does work.

---

### Post by sweeney276 on 2006-03-21
Thanks for that.  According to the forum messages, you can't generate meals/recipes from your personal database in the evaluation Mother of Diets software.  The forum poster lived outside the US (in India) and one of his problems was that software generated US-only meal options.  Still its a start, and I thank you very much for your help.

I looked at another piece of software in the Nutragenie range and it didn't run under Wine, but anything's worth a shot.

With 3% of the world's population - and 6% of the US population - suffering from diabetes, you would have thought this information would be stored in most recipe/diet software, running under any platform.  The G.I. information is in the public domain and is freely available.

I am continuing with my quest to get the developers to make Krecipes and Gourmet G.I. compliant.  Talking directly with developers of software and being involved in its development seems to me one of the strengths of open-source software.

Thanks anyway for your help :-)

---

