---
title: "7.10 Keyboard and mouse issue"
date: 2007-12-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Rro99 on 2007-12-23
I've read several threads that described similar issues but they're not quite the same as what I'm running into. 

I'm on 7.10 and only ever after about 10 minutes of inactivity my keyboard (logitech g15) and mouse (logitech g5) stop working.  In alot of other threads users are still able to move the mouse around and sometimes click, but in my case it's almost as if my computer is frozen. The clock however still ticks and pidgin messages still come through, but it's not recognizing any keyboard or mouse use. 

Also alot of the other topics describe how this is happening randomly, or when they open certain files, or make resolution changes, etc. But with my issue it only ever happens when I havent made a keystroke or moved the mouse in ~10 minutes, which leads me to believe it's going into some sort of semi-sleep mode. Unplugging them and plugging them back in doesnt help either, in fact when I plug them back in they dont even light up again.

I'm relatively new to ubuntu, take it easy on me :)

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2007-12-23
It sounds like a hibernation issue alright.  Check your settings under System - Preferences - Power Management, and also under System - Preferences - Screensaver.  If any setting is 10 minutes, change it and see if the behavior changes to match.  If so, you got your culprit.  :)

---

### Post by Rro99 on 2007-12-23
Nope, moved screensaver and hibernate up to 1 hour and it still happened after about 10 minutes

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2007-12-23
2 other options I can think to try.  First, check your keyboard settings in System - Preferences - Keyboard under the layouts tab.  Make sure you have the correct keyboard selected.
Assuming that doesn't work, go into Synaptic package manager and search for Logitech.  I noticed a package that might have some bearing on the issue ... tho it seems a long shot.  Just see what is loaded and what you might want to try.  Other than that, I'm out of ideas, hopefully someone else more knowledgable has a better idea.

---

### Post by mlampard on 2007-12-27
I believe usb autosuspend is enabled by default in 7.10.  it was disabled by default in previous versions, and it may be giving you grief.  Unfortunately I can't give you a definitive way of disabling it, but there are a number of threads around with possible answers.

---

