---
title: "8.10: Can't boot into X anymore"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by yonkiman on 2008-11-23
I upgraded my stable 7.10 to 8.10 a month or two ago, and it had been working well for several weeks (I had the weird stuff where it wouldn't boot if I had a CD/DVD in the optical drive, but it worked fine once I kept the optical drive empty).

But a week or so ago (possibly after a software update) it stopped booting into the GUI, instead I got:
  kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid<uuid of my disk>
  kinit: no resume image, doing normal boot...
  Ubuntu 8.10 yonki0 tty1
  yonki0 login:    * Reloading Postfix configuration

I looked around on the web and managed to make that go away by adding "noresume" to the 8.10 launch menu.lst, but it still won't boot into X.  If I type "startx", I get:
[IMG]http://yonkitime.com/images/X_prob.JPG[/IMG]

My hardware hasn't changed, and WinXP still works as well as it ever did, so I believe it's something in Ubuntu or its config...

Any suggestions?

-Fred

---

### Post by digitalbrain on 2008-11-23
I'm using Hardy Heron but maybe you should repair X server. Did you choose this option in the grub menu and tried to fix the X server?

---

### Post by yonkiman on 2008-11-23
> **digitalbrain said:**
> I'm using Hardy Heron but maybe you should repair X server. Did you choose this option in the grub menu and tried to fix the X server?

You know, I should have thought to try that, but I didn't.  Now I have tried it, but it didn't work - still can't boot into GUI...

Thanks for the suggestion, though.

-Fred

---

### Post by digitalbrain on 2008-11-23
The problem may be about vesa driver. It sounded interesting to me and I made a search typing "primary device is not pci" on google and found some websites. If you look at them you will understand the reason of the problem (I hope so). It is a video card related problem I think because it says "no screens found"  but I'm not sure.

---

