---
title: "Can't load into X"
date: 2011-01-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheMixtureMedia on 2011-01-29
Hey there I can not start X (gnome) when it loads it goes right to terminal it looks like it is loading up right but then goes right to a terminal prompt. I can load X if I go into recovery and load with the low graphics on but when I try to reset it comes up with the same issue and I have to restart into recovery mode. It happened after I installed my Nvidia drivers and I started having this issue. Here is my xorg.conf not sure if this will help

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.18  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-08.nvidia.com)  Tue Jan 18 22:06:28 PST 2011

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "Unknown"
	HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
	VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
	# generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-01-29
In your screen section try putting the resolutions you want available in the format:-
```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Modes        "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```and see if that helps.  Or simply try the system with no xorg.conf by renaming with ```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
```  You can always reinstate it if that does not work.

---

### Post by TheMixtureMedia on 2011-01-30
Hey there I found out what the issue was and I just reinstalled Ubuntu. I did a X upgrade in Ubuntu Tweak and that is what crashed my computer. I tried this a second time and it did the same issue. So I guess it was just a software bug.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-01-30
ubuntu tweak is too scary, better to forget it. Be aware of issue with latest nvidia 270 & xserver 1.10 (1.9.99x) (stay away from all bleeding ppa for a while)

other thing: nvidia-xconfig often conflict with default ubuntu setting as now the kernel directly deal with X, so remove xorg.conf:

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

