---
title: "ATI Driver + LCD refresh rate question"
date: 2005-01-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by azazel- on 2005-01-25
I recently purchased a new Dell 1704FPV monitor for my system, which is a Dell Dimension 8300 with an ATI Radeon 9800 (non-Pro).  When I install the proprietary ATI driver in Ubuntu warty with this new LCD, it locks in my refresh rate at 75hz at a resolution of 1280x1024.   According to my display documentation, the optimal settings for this display is 1280x1024 at 60hz. 

Now, I know that refresh rates are essentially meaningless on an LCD, however, knowing that, I'd rather not go against the optimal settings of the display.  I've tried manually editing XF86Config-4 with the correct refresh rates, but it seems that the ATI driver ignores that section of the config file.  Is there some way to force the ATI driver to use a lesser refresh rate and not have it probe the LCD for the max possible setting, which it seems to be doing?

The essense of my questions are;

Will using a 75hz refresh rate damage an LCD?
Is there some way to force the ATI driver to use a 60hz refresh rate?
Is there any benefit to using the ATI driver if I don't do gaming in linux at all?

Sorry to be so jumbled, but I've been reading every page and link I can find for about 6 hours now, and my brain is frazzled.

---

### Post by jensyt on 2005-01-25
As for one of your questions - did you remove all instances of the 75hz refresh rate in the configuration? And if so, did you restart X after making the changes?

These are very basic questions, I know. But without you telling exactly what you've done, I don't know if I can or can't help you.

As for the question regarding damaging the moniter: sorry, can't help you there.

And lastly - do the drivers make a difference if you don't play games. I guess they don't really matter if you don't plan on using hardware acceleration. I wouldn't bust my head over it if it isn't at all necessary.

---

### Post by azazel- on 2005-01-25
Yes, I tried manually editing the config to reflect a 60hz refresh rate, no go.  I tried commenting them out completely to see if perhaps they were conflicting with something the driver was trying to do, no go.  I both restarted XFree as well as did a complete reboot, same thing.  Nothing I've tried so far has gotten the refresh to go down to 60hz.  

I'm tempted to just blow of the ATI driver altogether, since I *think* the default XFree86 driver does basic 2D acceleration and video acceleration, just not 3D acceleration...but I may be wrong.  But this has gotten me frustrated and I want to know how to alter the refresh rate with that ATI driver.   I can't understand why this driver seems to completely ignore the settings specified in the XFree config file.   :???:

---

### Post by mgalvin on 2005-01-25
Yes, you can change it to 60Hz. Yes, there is much benifit to using the ATI drivers.

In your X config file(the one generated by fglrxconfig) find this line:

# SPEA GDM-1950 (60Hz,64kHz,110MHz,-,-): 1280x1024 @ V-freq: 60.00 Hz, H-freq: 63.73 KHz
# Modeline "GDM-1950" 109.62 1280 1336 1472 1720 1024 1024 1026 1062 -hsync -vsync

and uncomment the modeline like so:

# SPEA GDM-1950 (60Hz,64kHz,110MHz,-,-): 1280x1024 @ V-freq: 60.00 Hz, H-freq: 63.73 KHz
Modeline "GDM-1950" 109.62 1280 1336 1472 1720 1024 1024 1026 1062 -hsync -vsync

This did it for me.

You may also need to set these in the device section 

Option "HSync2" "unspecified"
Option "VRefresh2" "unspecified"

to 

Option "HSync2" "63.73"
Option "VRefresh2" "60.00"

also make sure you are using external apggart

Hope this helps,

mg

---

### Post by azazel- on 2005-01-25
So, I have to regenerate the XF86Config file?  Maybe that's what I was doing wrong, since I was trying to simply edit the existing file.

I'm at work right now...and I'll test this the second I get home.  If it works...I'll be eternally in your debt.  

I'm amazed at the fast responses on this forum.  You guys are great, seriously.  And thank you all again.  :)

---

### Post by mgalvin on 2005-01-25
Yes you have to run fglrxconfig which is ati's x config file generator tool

Follow the instructions here:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=3567&highlight=howto+ati](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=3567&highlight=howto+ati)

then follow my previous post on how to set the modeline and refresh options.

After restarting X you may also have to use the buttons on your monitor to auto reconfig itself so it can see and use the new refresh rate. I have to do that on my NEC LCD1750.

No Prob! Glad to help :)

---

