---
title: ".deb file will not uninstall"
date: 2007-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fazavon on 2007-10-30
Computer Spec:
Intel Core2 Duo
Nvidia 7600 GO
4 GB RAM
Running Gusty amd64 (the irony of installing AMD anything on an Intel is funny to me)

Anyway, The issue I am having. I tried installing the intlclock1.0.deb package for Gusty, I had to run 
 dpkg -i --force-architecture package name as it was for i386. The install worked, I right click on the panel (where I want it to be) go to miscellaneous and it is there, I choose it, hit add and that is where the issue lies. I get "The panel encountered a problem while loading "OAFIID:IntlClockApplet"." Do you want to delete the applet from your configuration?

I hit Don't Delete and I have no clock anymore, I try it again only this time I choose Delete it. it does not delete. 

I try running dpkg -r initlclock.deb and the package does is not there, I check synaptic, the package does not appear there either????

So now I am lost, I have no clue what time it is :), and I am not sure what to do.

Thanks for any help on this

//j

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-10-30
```
locate package_name
```

or 

```
sudo find / -name package_name
```

To install 32 bit app in 64 you can use linux32 package wich is in synaptic.

---

### Post by por100pre1 on 2007-10-30
```
aptitude search *package-name*
```

Try using just part of the file name... :-k

---

### Post by fazavon on 2007-10-31
No none of those worked. 

Does anyone have any ides here?

I can always go back to i686 if i need to.

---

### Post by Thyme on 2007-10-31
I think you have to remove the package manually if it doesn't come up in synaptic. Try the following:

```
sudo updatedb
```

and then try what zvacet suggested .. If you find anything then you have to carefully delete those files.

---

### Post by fazavon on 2007-11-02
I would just like to start by saying: Thank you to all that posted. 

I have gone back to i686 and I now have my clock back.

I did post a the bug 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/158826](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/158826)

and I had emailed the maintainer of the package. 

So we will just have to see what happens. 

I will post more as I find out.

Thanks again to all.

//j

---

