---
title: "10.10 shutdown hanging"
date: 2010-10-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pszpak on 2010-10-15
I have a fresh install of Ubuntu 10.10. When choosing to shutdown using the GUI the system shows the Ubuntu logo and the dots changing color. It then hangs with nothing but a hard power-cycle succeeding in shutting down the system. Interestingly I actually hear the hard-disk cut power and spin down when this happens. The system PSU, monitor and fans continue to run, though.

sudo halt shuts the system down fine. 

This is a new problem. My system under 10.04 did not have this problem.

---

### Post by M4570D0N on 2010-10-15
There were a few occasions where, when I went to menu>quit>shut down, the plymouth shutdown splash was showing but it seemed to hang and not shut down. Interestingly though, if I hit the down cursor(arrow) key it stopped hanging and shut down immediately. I assume this would probably be the case with any key, not just that key in particular. It hasn't been an issue 98-99% of the time though so I have not gotten around to investigating it more thoroughly

---

### Post by pszpak on 2010-10-15
I don't know if I've hit the down arrow key yet, but I've hit escape and enter and probably a couple of others. 

I tried this. It seems to be completely locked.

---

### Post by jeremyjc on 2010-10-15
I am having the same issue.  It just hangs both on shutdown OR restart.  Have to do a hard reset.

---

### Post by jeremyjc on 2010-10-15
Installing this wireless driver worked for me and fixed the issue.

[http://stat.case.edu/~jrt32/how_to_build_rt3090_for_ubuntu_lucid/rt3090-dkms_2.3.1.4-0ubuntu0~ppa1_all.deb](http://stat.case.edu/~jrt32/how_to_build_rt3090_for_ubuntu_lucid/rt3090-dkms_2.3.1.4-0ubuntu0~ppa1_all.deb)

---

### Post by pszpak on 2010-10-15
Would this be something useful even if I don't have wireless on this computer?

---

### Post by Alpha Axl on 2010-10-15
> **jeremyjc said:**
> Installing this wireless driver worked for me and fixed the issue.

[http://stat.case.edu/~jrt32/how_to_build_rt3090_for_ubuntu_lucid/rt3090-dkms_2.3.1.4-0ubuntu0~ppa1_all.deb](http://stat.case.edu/~jrt32/how_to_build_rt3090_for_ubuntu_lucid/rt3090-dkms_2.3.1.4-0ubuntu0~ppa1_all.deb)

Just tried and it doesn't show the Ubuntu logo as it shuts down, just terminal stuff, but it still refuses to shut down.  After showing lines of text, screen goes black and the computer stays on.

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2010-10-15
After you've hit shutdown and you press escape to clear the plymouth window, you should get some text. What is displayed in the text here should give you some sort of indication of what is causing it to hang. What text do you get?

---

### Post by pszpak on 2010-10-16
Pressing the escape key, and any other key, does nothing in my case; plymouth stays on the screen. As far as I can tell the computer is frozen. I haven't been able to see the shutdown text.

I should also add that sudo halt does show a proper shutdown sequence, including the animated plymouth screen.

---

### Post by pwyll72 on 2010-10-17
I'm having the same problem. I was on 9.10 x64 before, which always shut down normally - when I switched to 10.10 x64 I did a fresh install.

When I shut down, the plymouth screen freezes, and the fans spin down, but the PC doesn't power off.


If I hit ESC fast enough, I see that the last text is "will now halt", but the computer doesn't.

However, if I enter "sudo halt" in a console, the PC *does* shut down successfully.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2010-10-18
Weird issue folks. Very weird.

---

### Post by happydinosaur on 2010-10-19
Exact same issue with me.

In the Gnome GUI, I select shutdown to power down the computer and after a quick (too quick to read) screen with some text, the Ubuntu splash screen shows with the white-to-orange dots, the hard drive sounds like it powers down, the CPU fan turns off, and everything freezes at that point.  Eventually, the CPU fan turns back on and stays on.  Have to do a hard shutdown to power down the system.

This happens for me on freshly installed 10.04 and 10.10 versions of Ubuntu.

There is a launchpad.net bug report (562027) that indicates it's an issues with the Quickstarter function in OpenOffice.  Quickstarter was unchecked (off) by default for me on both 10.04 and 10.10, so that was not the issue for me.

Also, my build does not have wifi so the fix from a previous post would not apply in my case.

Anyone have any additional ideas?  Thanks.

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2010-10-19
There was a kernel update released this morning, try updating and see if it fixed the problem.

---

### Post by pszpak on 2010-10-21
My computer seems to be shutting down fine now. Maybe the kernel upgrade made a difference.

---

### Post by pwyll72 on 2010-10-21
Yeah, mine's been shutting down fine too since a couple of days ago.

---

### Post by foxmulder881 on 2010-10-22
I'm glad the kernel update helped. :)

---

### Post by pszpak on 2010-10-28
Strange. It did it again last night.

---

### Post by Sideshow Todd on 2010-10-28
> **foxmulder881 said:**
> There was a kernel update released this morning, try updating and see if it fixed the problem.

Howie, folks. I finally did it, after year of complaining and threatening to convert, I freed myself from the Bill gates tyrannical-monopoly and his shoddy operation systems.

FREE AT LAST, FREE AT LAST....YES I CAN! YES I CAN! I'M FREE AT LAST!:guitar:
But damn, I've ran into the same problem. Upon shutdown Ubuntu hangs. I'm concern that hard rebooting (which is what I must do to shut down) will corrupt files, namely the OS.
I down load the latest updates thinking that will solve the problem, yet it didn't. 

Alright foxmulder, I'll try you fix. God I hope it works.

Hell, after years of fighting and wrestling shoddy MS OS's, I've grown intolerant to buggy software!

---

### Post by number61971 on 2010-11-03
I just upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 and I'm having this exact issue myself.

Lenovo ThinkPad T61p
Ubuntu 10.10 (upgraded from 10.04) 64-bit

Also, my hard drive is entirely encrypted. The fact that I'm running 64-bit and/or have an encrypted hard drive seem to be at issue somewhere here. More on that below....

My symptoms are quite similar to what has been reported so far, but there are a couple of unique wrinkles.

Restarts always work fine.

Attempting to shut down while logged in always results in it hanging. I can either "hard shutdown" by holding the power button until the machine goes off, or I can CTRL-ALT-DELETE to force a restart.

After any restart, I can shut down by choosing to shut down rather than log in. But if I actually log in and then attempt to shut down ... well, it hangs as noted.

Oddly, I cannot log out and shut down from the login prompt. That hangs as well. Only after a machine restart WITHOUT LOGGING IN can I actually shut the machine down.

And there's yet one more oddity. After a successful restart --> no login --> shutdown, the very next time I turn the computer on I am booted into the grub kernel selection screen.

I have two other machines that I upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10. Both are 32-bit machines, and neither have fully encrypted hard drives. (Just encrypted home folders.) One is an old tower I cobbled together myself from parts, and the other is a Lenovo netbook (the s12). Neither of these machines has exhibited any of this behavior, and the software setups and environments among all three machines are all but identical.

Any thoughts? Any similar stories?

---

### Post by number61971 on 2010-11-04
I have to emend my report a bit. The machine does actually hang when attempting to restart. Additionally, I can't CTRL-ALT-DELETE to force a restart when it hangs, either.

So for now, the only way I can restart the machine is to actually select a shutdown, wait for it to hang, then CTRL-ALT-DELETE.

Obviously no change on my ability to shutdown, either.

---

### Post by jsp722 on 2010-11-06
Worked for me: manually disable wireless (in my case Fn+F11) and computer shuts down (or restarts) immediately.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-11-07
first time ive seen  this this ?
i have the same thing with my computer with 10.04 on it
at first it was fine then got a kernel update
i did not like what it did after the update
so i did a restart and tried the old kernel it would not start up
so i shut down/power button an let it restart
now it will not shut down with out using the power button

ubuntu 10.04 lucid gnome 2.30.2 kernel 2.6.32-25 generic

---

### Post by number61971 on 2010-11-09
For what it's worth, I discovered what appeared to be a helpful page:

**[http://tinyurl.com/ye47vve](http://tinyurl.com/ye47vve)**
 
However, my problem isn't with acpi. (In fact, specifying acpi=off as a boot parameter doesn't let me boot my machine at all!)

And I'm not skilled or knowledgeable enough to know what to do if it isn't acpi. The help provided in the above link doesn't help me make sense of dmesg, etc.

Still hoping for a fix! Looks like lots of other people have this same issue.

---

### Post by pszpak on 2010-11-11
My system continues to do this. It is 64-bit and is a fresh install of the OS. To reiterate: typing sudo halt from the cli works fine; choosing the shutdown option from the gnome interface shows a brief flash of text followed by the splash screen; then I hear the hard-disk spin down, but the monitor, system fans and (obviously) PSU stay on; the power button is now the only way to shutdown the remaining hardware.

6gb of Ram, an AMD X3 processor and an ati 4770. No wifi.
10.10 
2.6.35-22

---

### Post by Soul-Sing on 2010-11-11
try acpi=force  via:
/etc/default/grub
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=force"
```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by number61971 on 2010-11-11
Thanks for the help leoquant. Sadly, the acpi=force boot param has no noticeable effect. (Though at least my machine WILL boot up, unlike with acpi=off.)

A kernel update came through today ... though that didn't fix the problem either. :(

FWIW, I've since gone through /var/log/dmesg and /var/log/messages looking for any kind of errors ... nothing. Truly, I am stumped.

---

### Post by pszpak on 2010-11-16
leoquant:

I just modified the grub file and then tried to shutdown via the menu and it worked. So thank you. I'll post again here if the system once again hangs on shutdown (extremely frustrating if you are tired, hit shutdown, and then go to bed only to wake up the next morning and see everything still on!).

---

### Post by number61971 on 2010-11-22
OK, I now know what the problem is. But I still don't know how to fix it.

It has something to do with wireless. I suspect that the system simply cannot kill an active wireless connection.

If instead of using my wireless, I hook up to the internet directly through an ethernet cable (to my eth0 device), the system shuts down and restarts effortlessly.

Problem is ... I don't know how to manually shut off wireless in such a way that I can shut the system down without hanging. Unchecking "Enable wireless" from the network manager applet in the Gnome toolbar has no effect.

Is there a command I can have run automatically upon shutdown that will first shut off my wireless device/connection before proceeding along to the normal shutdown process?

---

### Post by timgood on 2010-11-23
I have this problem with an Acer Aspire Revo 3700 running Maverick 32bit. If I disable the wireless from the command line, the computer locks solid. It also locks solid when you untick 'enable wireless' or shutdown or reboot.

iwconfig tells me that wlan0 is IEEE 801.11bgn but does not tell me the model or kernel module it is using, so I can't blacklist it. If I install 64bit Maverick, I can shutdown and reboot OK, but the Wireless does not work at all.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by eloiribeiro on 2010-11-28
I'm using Ubuntu Descktop 64 bits 10.10 with all updates available installed on a Packard Bell EasyNote TJ62-SB-300SP and I'm having the same issue: 

* system restarts on shut down.
* if internet connection is working over a network cable, system shuts down OK.
* system hangs on shut down if:
---
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
#GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
#replace by
#GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=off"
sudo update-grub
---

Thanks
Eloi

---

### Post by kungfoofool on 2010-11-30
I've upgraded from 10.04 (shutdown worked then) to 10.10 and I have the exact same problem. I get the splash, but no complete shutdown. I can open other terminals (ie ctrl+alt+F5) but can't type in them, so I can't force a halt.

I can use the ALT+PRTSCRN+R,E,I,U,S,B trick, but I hate to use that every time I shut down the laptop.

I've tried the grub edits, to no avail.

---

### Post by BlueSpecial on 2010-11-30
Exact same problem here.. I do have an active wireless connection.

I will try to manually disconnect it before shutdown to see if it works (as soon as I get home... here at work only Windows allowed :()

---

### Post by BlueSpecial on 2010-12-02
Ok so yesterday i tried it...

I have to disable the wireless completely... on my laptop is FN + F11 so it "physically" disables the wireless adaptor... otherwise it won't reboot properly...

---

### Post by BlueSpecial on 2010-12-03
> **BlueSpecial said:**
> Ok so yesterday i tried it...

I have to disable the wireless completely... on my laptop is FN + F11 so it "physically" disables the wireless adaptor... otherwise it won't reboot properly...

Well... yesterday I disabled the wireless as always but this time it **_didn't reboot properly_**.

All I see is a terminal info and the white dots from Ubuntu splash showing up on a black background... could it be the graphic card doing this? Because one time it appeared the correct Ubuntu logo but it still didn't shutdown... besides the wireless anyone knows another possible cause for this?

---

### Post by lucacerone on 2010-12-03
I'm having the same issue after upgrading from my 10.04 to 10.10.
Everything works fine but shut down.
Any hint? (Mine is a desktop, no wireless.. I don't think it's wireless causing the problem)

---

### Post by BlueSpecial on 2010-12-07
Any progress or any advice?

Even using terminal to shutdown the machine the problem persists.

Is quite annoying (and somehow "not very good" to the machine) forcing the shutdown with the power off button...

Thanks in advance for any advice ;)

---

### Post by lucacerone on 2010-12-08
Hi, the issue was solved for me with last few upgrades.
I'm not sure what caused the issue to be solved though
(as far as I reckoned thwy were only emerald themes).
Hope this helps,
Cheers, -Luca

---

### Post by BlueSpecial on 2010-12-10
My system is up-to-date with latest updates installed... still the same problem...

If I do a restart it works fine but a shutdown won't!

The Ubuntu logo shows up, then the white progress circles become orange until it reaches circle number 4... then it just hangs!

---

### Post by Burfee on 2010-12-11
i regret the day i upgraded to 10.10. it only brought me problems...

---

### Post by BlueSpecial on 2010-12-13
Even after all updates the problem persists... :(

Anyone have any clue what could possibly be wrong?

---

### Post by mpec on 2010-12-18
I have the same problem. I recently did a fresh install of Ubuntu 10.10 and shortly afterwards my PC  stopped to shutdown. Switching of wifi with the physical switch on my laptop doesn't help. 

It hangs at the Ubuntu 10.10 screen with the points changing from white to orange again and again. 
Below it I often get the following lines: 

nm-dispatcher.action: caught signal 15, shutting down 
modem-manager: caught signal 15, shutting down
init: dbus main process (850) killed by TERM signal 
init: disconnected from system bus

- I don't know if these are just the usual messages or if they could give a clue about what is happening. 
This is really annoying, I hate having to force shutdown the hard way all the time.

---

### Post by ChaoZero on 2010-12-22
Encountering same issue on DFI lanparty DK 790FX black edition mobo.
offtopic: wifi drivers also buggy (not in functionality, but regarding the aircrack-ng suite) on new iwlagn drivers for my xps m1330, so both my systems are back to lucid

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2010-12-24
Well at least I am glad to see that I am not the only one having these random shutdown and boot up problems with Maverick.

I thought that this was being caused by a faulty power supply, so I had Seasonic send me a replacement for my PS which was still under warranty.

I just installed the replacement today but after reading all of this thread, I am sort of doubtful if a PS replacement is going to fix these problems.

Sounds like to me that Ubuntu still needs to do some work on Maverick !!!

If this continues I am going to go back to Jaunty.  I never had these problems with it.

Thanks.

---

### Post by jbuczek on 2010-12-25
I'm also having the same problem. I did a clean install of 10.10 AMD 64bit Desktop about two months ago. No Wifi in use.  Shutdown & Restart worked perfectly.  The problem started after the auto Update a couple weeks ago that included the kernal update.

For the benefit of those troubleshooting this problem:

After the kernal update, the shutdown aplet worked properly ONCE.  Thereafter it hangs as everyone else has described.

Thereafter restart worked ONCE.  Now it hangs too.

Thinking there might be a corruption of the shutdown aplet scripts I installed a new iteration of the shutdown aplet.  Shutdown worked properly ONCE. Thereafter neither shutdown nor restart works.

**Sudo Shutdown Now** also worked ONCE. Now that hangs too.

In the last few days, when I start up again I'm getting HDD errors on /home which, thank goodness, have been correctable so far.  /home is on a separate drive formatted ext2.

Getting worried here folks!

---

### Post by Bas232 on 2010-12-30
I have just installed a Fresh 10.10, and as expected the machine MSI U135DX won't shutdown or reboot.
However, as some already stated, press FN+F11 to turn off wireless and PRESTO it does everything needed!
The problem is definitely something networking or wireless related.
Messing with Grub did not change anything.
BTW, I have also seen it on the DKA790 motherboard without wlan.

---

### Post by Trublue on 2010-12-31
I was having same problems with ubuntu 10.10 and exactly the same with Linux Mint 10 on another partition on the same computer and stumbled on a solution to my problem by accident. I was checking out the box for overheating , loose connections etc when touching memory stick screen went silly so switched off and removed memory and replaced ,problem is now solved and pc switches of  properly.

---

### Post by na5h on 2010-12-31
My shutdown used to hang before I installed the proprietary drivers for my ATI graphics card!

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2010-12-31
> **wpshooter said:**
> Well at least I am glad to see that I am not the only one having these random shutdown and boot up problems with Maverick.

I thought that this was being caused by a faulty power supply, so I had Seasonic send me a replacement for my PS which was still under warranty.

I just installed the replacement today but after reading all of this thread, I am sort of doubtful if a PS replacement is going to fix these problems.

Sounds like to me that Ubuntu still needs to do some work on Maverick !!!

If this continues I am going to go back to Jaunty.  I never had these problems with it.

Thanks.

I take that back.

After changing to the replacement PS that Seasonic sent me, I have not ,to this point, gotten the shutdown problem to recur.  I have shutdown and/or restarted about 50 to 60 times and no repeat yet.

Thanks.

---

### Post by elldirash on 2011-01-14
Hi guys.

I had the exact same problem on a C2D desktop system. By the tiresome process of disabling random stuff in BIOS i pinpointed the problem (at least in my case) to be with the onboard firewire module. Disabling this in BIOS solved the problem and the system now shuts down properly. I hope this will help some of you guys!

---

### Post by elldirash on 2011-01-14
Hi guys.

I had the exact same problem on a C2D desktop system. By the tiresome  process of disabling random stuff in BIOS i pinpointed the problem (at  least in my case) to be with the onboard firewire module. Disabling this  in BIOS solved the problem and the system now shuts down properly. I  hope this will help some of you guys!

---

### Post by someusername on 2011-01-23
Isn't there some linux nerd out there who actually knows one or two things about HOW TO ACTUALLY CREATE A LOG FILE THAT SHOWS THE PROBLEM (and hence how to solve it) instead of giving idiotic suggestions like "try that" or "try this", where this and that are random hardware/driver settings??

A good answer to this thread (same problem for me), would include how one creates an explicit log file. If that is impossible, how to compile ubuntu with logging turned on. If that is impossible, which I doubt, how to enable the kernel logging to tty1. Perhaps someone discuss how to _easily_ debug the shutdown over a USB-port, or the network through a remote debugger. Any QUALIFIED help would be great.

Cheers.

---

### Post by jbuczek on 2011-01-23
After reviewing all previous suggestions in this thread, I have installed ATI proprietary drivers, removed all trace of Wifi, removed and replaced RAM sticks and all other components, swapped PS with another computer and the problem still persists.

BTW... what is "Press FUNCTION + F11" as suggested several times.  My computers have f1 through F12 keys but no "Function" key.  Are we talking <CTRL> or <ALT> or <Win Key> or is that a laptop or a Mac thing?

---

### Post by billstei on 2011-02-07
I also have this problem of shutdown (from the Gnome Shutdown applet) hanging after a fresh install of Maverick.  The hang lasts about 30 seconds (or more) and then continues to shutdown.  Using "sudo halt" from a terminal shuts down immediately, so I have no clues from the console in that case.

---

### Post by -Strider- on 2011-02-12
> **billstei said:**
> I also have this problem of shutdown (from the Gnome Shutdown applet) hanging after a fresh install of Maverick.  The hang lasts about 30 seconds (or more) and then continues to shutdown.  Using "sudo halt" from a terminal shuts down immediately, so I have no clues from the console in that case.

Me too having this exact problem. It takes around 45sec to get shutdown. My desktop works fine, but laptop has the problem

---

### Post by billstei on 2011-02-13
As a temporary workaround I made a desktop launcher with the command "gksudo halt".

---

### Post by Trublue on 2011-02-14
Went back to 10.04 and now shutting down like it should.So problem is with 10.10 and not the PC

---

### Post by jap1968 on 2011-02-16
Same problem here:

The computer is a laptop HP dv7, with a Core i3 processor + hybrid graphics (intel HD integrated + ATI series 5xxx). It used to run Ubuntu 10.04 64bit with no problems.

I updated to 10.10 in order to being able to disable one of the graphic cards (that is not supported in the 10.04 kernel). Since I upgraded, I am suffering the shutdown problem.

The computer takes about 30 seconds more than usual to shutdown / reboot. If I achieve to get some log information I will post here, but I have no additional information so far.

---

### Post by johng4etm on 2011-02-20
This may be of use.
I have just installed **10.04** on an Acer Travelmate 4002 and was having the shutdown problem. Kernel is 2.6.32-28. Dual-boot with XP.
I tried 
/etc/default/grub
[B]GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=force"
[/B]It did not work.
I tried 
/etc/default/grub
[B]GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=""
[/B]to see if I could spot any errors.
 
No errors found **BUT it cured the problem**.
I'll putup with the verbose start/stop messages.
 
Hope it helps.

---

### Post by lorenzosu on 2011-02-26
This problem is persisting since 10.04 on my mother's Packard Bell EasyNote. Today I finally updated to 10.10 hoping it would solve the problem, but no.
I tried all the suggestions listed: wifi off, grub configuration, checked the bios but no real hint.
The system goes completely down, and it even seems disk spins down etc. There is then a usual message:

* Will now halt

And under indented:
[   505.766989]

The number in the square brackets changes randomly each time.

The system is actually blocked, no keyboard responsiveness, and lately not even presing the button will shut it down, forcing to actually unplug the mains, which is really a problem for her.

Any help appreciated.
Lorenzo.

---

### Post by vrshetz on 2011-03-03
I have the same issue, I thought initially that is something wrong with my laptop, but then I found the posts on this forums with people having the same problems.

I am a beginner with Ubuntu (I've been using Windows for the last 16 years) so if you have any advices please post as for rookies :)

I have updated Ubuntu 10.10, the updates do not change anything. I have installed then Kubuntu 10.10, but it has the same problem: when I shutdown or restart the computers, it freezes.

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-03-11
Same issue can someone help??:confused:

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-03-11
PLease!

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-03-11
This is the error i am getting.
Ubuntu 10.10                                                             All processes will end in 2 seconds
NDS......                                           Caught signal 15 ubuntu 10.10n
Deconfiguring network interfaces     1250977778 power down
Deactervating swap
init dbus main process 1093 killed by term signal
init disconnected from system bus
unmounting weak filesystems
unmounting local filesystems
WILL NOW HALT
This happens and then it just hangs for ever it has been happening since i installed it.
Can somebody help??:confused:

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-03-12
PLease!!!

---

### Post by Trublue on 2011-03-12
I tried all suggestions but none worked with mine so as I previously posted I went back to Ubuntu 10.04 and have had no problem since. I did however read on an other forum just recently regarding another issue as well and what I did notice was they were using an Intel Graphics as I do so am wondering if the problem could be there. No one else has posted anything about  graphics as being a contributor.

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-03-18
yeah it is very irritating but thanks for the help!:D

---

### Post by r.denilson on 2011-03-29
> **thenickrulz said:**
> yeah it is very irritating but thanks for the help!:D



I have a Sony Vaio with Wifi and every times that I shutdown, my note freeze.  

Someone find solution?

---

### Post by chayzer on 2011-04-04
Possible solution:

In terminal try a ```
lspci | grep RT3090
```

and if you see a

Network controller: RaLink RT3090 Wireless 802.11n 1T/1R PCIe

then take a gander at

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/linux/+bug/662288]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/linux/+bug/662288")

---

### Post by thenickrulz on 2011-04-07
i will be getting 11.04 and hopefully it will be fixed then!!

---

### Post by Burfee on 2011-04-07
> **thenickrulz said:**
> i will be getting 11.04 and hopefully it will be fixed then!!
don't get your hopes up. i tested 11.04 beta and my laptop hanged on it too...

---

### Post by percypais on 2011-04-20
I installed Ubuntu 10.10 on my Sony Vaio VGN-CR343N and faced the same problem during shutdown, hibernate or suspend. 

I shut my wifi / bluetooth (using the hard switch on the side of the laptop) and it shutdown properly. So I guess the problem is the wifi device being on.

---

### Post by diegoviola on 2011-04-23
it sounds like the same problem we have here:

[https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=33872](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=33872)

please report problems there.

---

### Post by ich007 on 2011-06-10
Just like to post my solution for an EEEPC R051PEM, Atom N550, 2GB RAM:
Based on a thread discussion Wlan issues in 11.04 I have created a fille: /etc/modprobe.d/eeepc.conf with the following content:

#attempt to solve the eeepc p051pem shutdown problem
blacklist rt2800pci
blacklist rt2800lib
blacklist rt2x00usb
blacklist rt2x00pci
blacklist rt2x00lib

This solved my shutdown problem, WLAN still works using rt2860sta. 
Non of the other solutions available in the net (blacklisting e1000e, adding rmmod snd_intel_hda to shutdown script) solved the problem.
If further information required, please ask with instructions.


lsb_release -a
LSB Version:    core-2.0-ia32:core-2.0-noarch:core-3.0-ia32:core-3.0-noarch:core-3.1-ia32:core-3.1-noarch:core-3.2-ia32:core-3.2-noarch:core-4.0-ia32:core-4.0-noarch
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 10.10
Release:    10.10
Codename:    maverick
uname -a
Linux eeepc01 2.6.35-28-generic #50-Ubuntu SMP Fri Mar 18 19:00:26 UTC 2011 i686 GNU/Linu
lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation N10 Family DMI Bridge (rev 02)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation N10 Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation N10 Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 4 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation NM10 Family LPC Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH7 Family SATA AHCI Controller (rev 02)
01:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications AR8132 Fast Ethernet (rev c0)
02:00.0 Network controller: RaLink RT3090 Wireless 802.11n 1T/1R PCIe

---

