---
title: "Help with lm-sensors install"
date: 2007-06-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by herbster on 2007-06-25
I just followed [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SensorInstallHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SensorInstallHowto)

And when I get to the part to do "sudo modprobe i2c-sensor" and the others, it keeps saying:

```
FATAL: Module i2c_sensor not found.
```

Here's my /etc/modules:

```
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

lp
fuse

# Generated by sensors-detect on Mon Jun 25 14:52:29 2007
# I2C adapter drivers
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 0 at 1:00.0
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 1 at 1:00.0
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 2 at 1:00.0
i2c-viapro
i2c-isa
# Chip drivers
eeprom
w83627hf
```

---

### Post by herbster on 2007-06-27
Anyone? Would like to get this working :(

---

### Post by linuxwizard on 2007-06-27
I think you are doing more than the instructions are telling you to do. Make sure you have installed from Synaptic >lm-sensors > libsensors-dev > libsensors3. Make sure copy & save script named mkdev.sh. > run again >sudo sensors-detect > answer all questions YES > do not do anything else >  restart computer >should be now setup

i hope this will work for you. i messed up my first time setting up my sensors also. since than i have done about 6 setups.

---

### Post by herbster on 2007-06-27
> **linuxwizard said:**
> I think you are doing more than the instructions are telling you to do. Make sure you have installed from Synaptic >lm-sensors > libsensors-dev > libsensors3. Make sure copy & save script named mkdev.sh. > run again >sudo sensors-detect > answer all questions YES > do not do anything else >  restart computer >should be now setup

i hope this will work for you. i messed up my first time setting up my sensors also. since than i have done about 6 setups.

Woops, I forgot the reboot part! It's all working now, thanks a lot :)

---

### Post by steve457 on 2007-07-04
I'm also having problems getting this to work.  I followed the steps in the tutorial, rebooted and still get no sensors found.  Here is my /etc/modules file

```
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

fuse
lp
sbp2

# Generated by sensors-detect on Wed Jul  4 00:48:11 2007
# I2C adapter drivers
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 0 at 1:00.0
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 1 at 1:00.0
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 2 at 1:00.0
# Chip drivers
eeprom
w83627ehf
```

If i try to run the command "sudo modprobe i2c-sensor", I also get the error

```
FATAL: Module i2c_sensor not found.
```

What am I missing?  I've rebooted my machine already as well, but the same problems exist.

---

### Post by scxtt on 2007-07-04
i don't believe there is a i2c-sensor module ...

try modprobe'ing:

[B]i2c_ec  
i2c_isa 
i2c_core
[/B]
i have an nvidia based motherboard and that's all i need to get w83627ehf working ... sensors-detect works fine for me, no initial reboot necessary ...

---

### Post by steve457 on 2007-07-04
> **scxtt said:**
> i don't believe there is a i2c-sensor module ...

try modprobe'ing:

[B]i2c_ec  
i2c_isa 
i2c_core
[/B]
i have an nvidia based motherboard and that's all i need to get w83627ehf working ... sensors-detect works fine for me, no initial reboot necessary ...

I was able to successfully modprobe the above, but still get this error:

 ```
myhost:/dev$ sensors
No sensors found!
Make sure you loaded all the kernel drivers you need.
Try sensors-detect to find out which these are.

```

I even tried running sensors-detect again, but still a no-go.  I'm running on a Asus P5K WS Motherboard with an Intel Core 2 Duo 4300 processor.  My motherboard uses the Intel P35 chipset.  Could it be that it is not supported yet?

---

### Post by scxtt on 2007-07-04
well, it looks like it found the *w83627ehf* sensor, so it should work, is that loaded?

**sudo modprobe w83627ehf**

---

### Post by quokka on 2007-07-06
I am more or less in the same situation as steve457. i2c* modules are loaded but 

modprobe w83627ehf

fails with the error

FATAL: Error inserting w83627ehf (/lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/kernel/drivers/hwmon/w83627ehf.ko): No such device

Devices /dev/i2c-0 thru /dev/i2c-8 have been created.

Motherboard is Asus P5K with Kubuntu 7.04 64 bit.

---

### Post by steve457 on 2007-07-06
I get the exact same error when trying to run 'sudo modprobe w83627ehf'.  I notice that I only have /dev/i2c-0 through /dev/i2c-2, even though they went through i2c-32 when I inititally ran the mkdev.sh script.  

It looks like it may be possible that it currently won't work with the P5K motherboard?  Could it be the different chipset that is a problem?

---

### Post by quokka on 2007-07-06
It seems that this bug might be the issue:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/90265](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-source-2.6.20/+bug/90265)

and you possibly need kernel >= 2.6.21 to fix.

Apparently the ICH9 is much like the ICH8.

---

### Post by quokka on 2007-07-09
I installed kernel 2.6.21.5 and the latest lm_sensors - 2.10.3 

I now get the following output from sensors on Asus P5K mboard

```

w83627dhg-isa-0290
Adapter: ISA adapter
VCore:     +1.43 V  (min =  +0.00 V, max =  +1.74 V)
in1:      +11.72 V  (min =  +6.76 V, max =  +0.84 V) ALARM
AVCC:      +3.28 V  (min =  +1.02 V, max =  +0.46 V) ALARM
3VCC:      +3.28 V  (min =  +1.09 V, max =  +1.09 V) ALARM
in4:       +1.38 V  (min =  +0.02 V, max =  +0.07 V) ALARM
in5:       +1.67 V  (min =  +0.07 V, max =  +1.20 V) ALARM
in6:       +4.48 V  (min =  +3.48 V, max =  +0.00 V) ALARM
VSB:       +3.28 V  (min =  +0.05 V, max =  +0.90 V) ALARM
VBAT:      +2.05 V  (min =  +1.02 V, max =  +0.00 V) ALARM
Case Fan:    0 RPM  (min = 10546 RPM, div = 64) ALARM
CPU Fan:  1318 RPM  (min =  659 RPM, div = 16)
Aux Fan:     0 RPM  (min = 21093 RPM, div = 16) ALARM
fan5:     1268 RPM  (min = 1318 RPM, div = 8) ALARM
Sys Temp:    +36°C  (high =   +32°C, hyst =   +64°C)
CPU Temp:  +19.0°C  (high = +80.0°C, hyst = +75.0°C)
AUX Temp: +124.5°C  (high = +80.0°C, hyst = +75.0°C)   ALARM

```

Some of which is obviously a bit wobbly, but it is basically working.

lm_sensors will be installed in /usr/local/bin, so remember to put it in your path.

---

### Post by steve457 on 2007-07-10
Great info!  How did you go about installing the newer kernel?  Is it difficult to do?  I definitely would like to get this working in my system as well.

---

### Post by quokka on 2007-07-10
There are some instructions for installing a kernel "the Ubuntu way" somewhere here on this forum. I can't remember where, but you should be able to find it fairly easily. It's not too hard and automatically updates the grub config etc.

You will find the config of your current kernel in /boot. It will probably be called 
"config-2.6.20-16-generic". You will need to copy this to a file called ".config" in the root of your new kernel source tree. Then do a "make old_config" to transfer your current kernel config to your new kernel.

I'd also increase the grub boot timeout to give a little more time at bootup to manually select the kernel you want. The timeout is set in the file /boot/grub/menu.lst

It's not too difficult really, and you can still boot any of your old kernels, so with a little care it's hard to do too much damage.

---

