---
title: "U_8.10...give me stability!!"
date: 2008-11-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kaykelkar on 2008-11-21
Before I begin, i'll assure everyone that I am a fan of Ubuntu and would love to one day finally migrate to it fully....!! But what if I am getting constant speed-breakers on a autobahn!!
My problems with all variants of ubuntu after installing it within Windows XP


[LIST=1]
[*]Suddenly one day after a power failure i am not able to login to Ubuntu via the GUI mode....have a compulsory command prompt option (had put in a separate thread, but, the solutions suggested there didn't work out.....had to uninstall and reinstall.)
[*]No flexibility in terms of adjusting the partition size.....had to save files in windows partitions and uninstall some programs.
[*]Update and put yourself in a quicksand.......once i updated some available update which were recommended and i landed up loosing my display and sound drivers. Again i had tried some solutions and then did a final thing......UNINSTALL & REINSTALL.
[*]Biggest and recent headache......i lost my sound....suddenly one fine day my comp muted....i logged into windows to check and to my great lucky stars it was working very fine there. I tried the sticky thread on this side but to my despair, nothing worked out to bring the sound back.
[/LIST]
So my final respite is you guys out there. Should i hang-on or should i quit?? I am really worried to go full scale on installation.

HELP GUYS.............its SOS!!!:confused:

---

### Post by PocketDog on 2008-11-21
I can only speak from experience, and my experience has been pretty trouble-free. I'm using Hardy LTS, and I will be until the next LTS. I've also had the same wallpaper for six months, I don't like surprises

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-11-21
I'm not a big fan of the Wubi install and I'm not a big fan of Intrepid either.  All that being admitted to, why don't you try downloading a Hardy Heron LiveCD and see how that runs on your system.  If that's a "go" look into either a dual-boot with XP if you're not ready to switch, or running XP in virtual machine with Ubuntu as your Host OS.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-21
Power failures can kill off windows too.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2008-11-21
> **kaykelkar said:**
> 
[*]No flexibility in terms of adjusting the partition size.....had to save files in windows partitions and uninstall some programs.

I haven't used the Wubi installer, so I don't know how the file that it uses instead of a separate partition works.

But if you install Ubuntu as a dual-boot, so that it has its own partition(s), you can adjust them as you see fit, with the caveat that you can't change a partition that's mounted.

I think that a lot of the limitations you're finding are because you're running the Wubi version. Try a dual-boot setup instead, and see if that's any better for you.

EDIT: And generally, re-installing the whole OS because of a problem with a small part of it is a Windows technique. You don't generally have to do so with a proper OS. Linux distributions are mostly designed to be modular, so that you can pick your own options for different functions. As a corollary to that, you can configure all of the different pieces independently from the others.

---

### Post by kaykelkar on 2008-11-23
thanks guys! but i am really sceptical about installing without wubi. if i have some problems in that how can i deal in those. are there any guides for dummies(like me) in Ubuntu??

---

### Post by billc123 on 2008-11-23
I don't know if you have a laptop or a desktop, but if you have a laptop (at least on mine) it is very easy to swap hard drives. Mine slides in and out very quickly. So i can have one operating system on one drive and a different operating system on another drive...

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2008-11-23
> **kaykelkar said:**
> thanks guys! but i am really sceptical about installing without wubi. if i have some problems in that how can i deal in those. are there any guides for dummies(like me) in Ubuntu??

That would be this forum :)

Seriously, as far as I'm aware there are vanishingly few problems that you might have that would be easier to fix with a Wubi install than a normal dual-boot install. In fact, I can only think of one.

The installer is quite straightforward. Resize your existing Windows partition to the size you want, then install Ubuntu in the newly-created free space. If you're installing from the live cd, you're likely to have Internet access during the process, so if you're concerned about a particular stage you can look for information about it.

There is apparently a way to migrate your data from your existing Wubi install to a standard dual-boot setup, but not having used Wubi, I couldn't tell you much about it.

My 72-year-old mother has managed to install Ubuntu. You'll do fine.

---

