---
title: "No Video on a Mac Mini"
date: 2008-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joedamac on 2008-11-09
Hello!

First try running Ubuntu.
Starting up off the CD on my Mac Mini, DVI Out to my HD TV.
Once my Mac starts booting off the CD, screen goes black, no video, out of range.

Just wondering if theres some simple way I can, without being able to see the screen, change the resolution to something that might display.

Someone I spoke to on the #Ubuntu channel told me I can hit F6 to change resolutions. But I'm wondering, since I can't actually SEE anything, what keystrokes I might use next to change to the next available resolution.

Thanks for any help!

Joseph

---

### Post by Leslie Viljoen on 2008-11-11
My PPC MacMini (connected to a monitor via VGA cable) had a blank screen when I first rebooted after the installation (of Xubuntu). I pressed ctrl-alt-f1 repeatedly during the boot and got a text screen. After that it showed the login screen normally.

To solve the problem permanently I added a "nosplash" option to the /etc/yaboot.conf file; see below. Not sure, but maybe this will work for you.

To edit yaboot.conf on Ubuntu, press alt-f2 and type "gksudo gedit /etc/yaboot.conf". See the example below - I just added the append="nospash". Then save, press alt-f2 again and enter "gksudo ybin" to update yaboot. You get text at startup, but booting works.



```
## yaboot.conf generated by the Ubuntu installer
##
## run: "man yaboot.conf" for details. Do not make changes until you have!!
## see also: /usr/share/doc/yaboot/examples for example configurations.
##
## For a dual-boot menu, add one or more of:
## bsd=/dev/hdaX, macos=/dev/hdaY, macosx=/dev/hdaZ

boot=/dev/hda2
device=/pci@f4000000/ata-6@d/disk@0:
partition=4
root=/dev/hda4
timeout=100
install=/usr/lib/yaboot/yaboot
magicboot=/usr/lib/yaboot/ofboot
enablecdboot
macosx=/dev/hda3

image=/boot/vmlinux
	label=Linux
	read-only
	initrd=/boot/initrd.img
	append="nosplash"


```

---

### Post by joedamac on 2008-11-11
Would this work on an Intel Mac Mini? You mentioned having a PPC Macmini

---

### Post by Leslie Viljoen on 2008-11-11
If you can get to a login screen by pressing ctrl-alt-f1 during boot then yes, you should try turning off the splash screen.

If ctrl-alt-f1 doesn't help, your problem is something else.

---

### Post by joedamac on 2008-11-13
Hmm, doesn't seem to do anything. 

I guess it might be, I can't see my display, monitor out of range. Need to change the resolution. What exactly does ctrl-alt-f1 do?

---

### Post by joedamac on 2008-11-17
Greetings,

Running on OSX on a Mac Mini Intel.

From the moment I boot off the Ubuntu install CD I get no video, monitor goes out of range. Splash screen from OSX displays as the Mac Mini starts up, but the moment boot begins from install CD my display goes black and is out of range.

I've posted about this problem previously and all answers to my question have required that I'm able to see anything, which I'm not. =(

I've previously setup some custom resolutions using SwitchResX, but all work with my display. I'm concerned that this has caused the issue, though I have no idea why.

If there's some way I can tell Ubuntu to try a different resolution by modifying something off the Ubuntu disc image before I burn it to CD, but I'm not able to see anything during the boot process, whatsoever.

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-18
> **joedamac said:**
> Greetings,

Running on OSX on a Mac Mini Intel.

From the moment I boot off the Ubuntu install CD I get no video, monitor goes out of range. Splash screen from OSX displays as the Mac Mini starts up, but the moment boot begins from install CD my display goes black and is out of range.

I've posted about this problem previously and all answers to my question have required that I'm able to see anything, which I'm not. =(

I've previously setup some custom resolutions using SwitchResX, but all work with my display. I'm concerned that this has caused the issue, though I have no idea why.

If there's some way I can tell Ubuntu to try a different resolution by modifying something off the Ubuntu disc image before I burn it to CD, but I'm not able to see anything during the boot process, whatsoever.

Thanks for any help!
You can select your resolution on the initial bootscreen of the LiveCD. There are are various options along the bottom of the screen.

---

### Post by joedamac on 2008-11-18
Easy enough, however, I can't actually see anything. The LiveCD I'm booting off of is choosing a resolution that's out of range.

Is there a way I could do this without being able to see anything?

I guess I should've been more specific, I was under the impression the LiveCD is also an install cd.

Forgive me, first time trying to use Ubuntu. =)

Thanks!

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-18
> **joedamac said:**
> Easy enough, however, I can't actually see anything. The LiveCD I'm booting off of is choosing a resolution that's out of range.
I am not talking about the GUI where the system chooses a resolution, I am talking about where you initially choose to "Use Ubuntu without making changes to your disk". It looks like what is in the attachment... If you do not even see this, then you probably need to use a different monitor, or try the alt install disc.

> **joedamac said:**
> I guess I should've been more specific, I was under the impression the LiveCD is also an install cd.it is

---

### Post by joedamac on 2008-11-18
Yeah, I'm not getting any video, whatsoever.

I'll try the alt install disc.

Thanks for the advice!

---

### Post by joedamac on 2008-11-20
Greetings,

OK. So I hope I'm not annoying too many of you as I've posted about this 3-4 times previously. Tried everything that people have advised me to do, still to no avail. I'll try to be more verbose in my description this time.

So, problem is:

Trying to boot off the Live CD, both the normal and alternate text only installer of both Hardy and Intrepid, but I'm not getting any video the moment Ubuntu starts to boot.

Just to clarify, I insert the Ubuntu CD, I restart my mac holding C. I get the first few seconds of white/gray splash screen from OS X (before the Apple Logo pops up) and once the CD starts to spin and starts loading into Ubuntu, my display goes black. It would probably say 'Out of Range' if it were a computer monitor, but its a Widescreen LCD HD TV, so I just get a blinking '480i' note at the bottom left corner of my TV, telling me that it can't display whatever resolution it's trying to.

So, I never see anything, from the *moment* I boot from the CD to when I finally hear the Ubuntu chime about 2-3 minutes later.

My HDTV is connected to my Mac Mini/1.66ghz Intel Core Duo via a HDMI to DVI cable. I don't have another Monitor to use, and frankly if I have to use a different one, I'd rather stick to OS X. I love my 32" widescreen. =)

So, it boots, but I get no video, whatsoever, zip. I'm a complete linux newbie, so I'm hoping there's a very straight forward way to blindly open a command prompt, enter a few commands, and change my monitor's resolution. I've been scouring for about a week for someone with similar problems and I'm not finding a thing.

Thanks much!

---

### Post by cyberdork33 on 2008-11-20
Please do not post in multiple locations. It makes it difficult for people to follow what you have done.

It sounds like your TV is incapable of displaying the resolution being used by your computer. This is not to say that the computer cannot use other resolutions once you have everything setup, but for some reason the basic 640x480 resolution console terminal screen will not display. Try installing with you other monitor, then once you can get it to use a higher resolution, then try the TV again. You will probably still get a blank screen for the first few seconds of booting since it still uses the basic resolution initially on startup.

---

### Post by pwoodhouse2000 on 2009-05-25
Did this ever get resolved - I'm having the exact same issue, except I did successfully install ubuntu (single partition) using a different monitor, but when I take the MacMini back to the living room and plug in the TV, I get nothing.

I turned of graphical login, and I can get to the command prompt now, but as soon as I turn on gdm I get nothing.

---

