---
title: "How do I find out what's intercepting my key presses?"
date: 2009-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-16
Moar edit: See last post for fix.

Keyboard shortcuts (Mute, Calculator, multimedia keys, etc) have stopped working. Someone in IRC concluded that the problem is that something on my system is intercepting the commands generated by these keys and preventing them from reaching GNOME.

He couldn't be very specific about how I fix this, other than the phrase "trial and error." He also mentioned enabling/disabling things until they work.

This seems like an enormously daunting task for someone who's only been using Ubuntu for a few months. I could really use some help...

Edit: Okay, it seems that I really need to clarify a few things here.

I understand that you are supposed to initially treat every problem like there's an extraordinarily basic setting or configuration that needs changed to solve it, and I fully appreciate that. However, when I hear the same question a dozen times, it gets very annoying. Please do not ask me:
-Whether I have gone into System --> Preferences --> Keyboard Shortcuts to reassign it; I have done so with absolutely no change whatsoever to my performance
-Whether it is a hardware issue; I can absolutely, positively guarantee that it is not
-Whether GNOME registers whether the key itself is being pressed, via xev. I can absolutely, positively guarantee that it does register the keys, and registers their commands, but does not perform the commands.

---

### Post by sdlynx on 2009-07-16
If you type ```
xev
``` in the terminal you can see whether the buttons are being registered (just press one and see if any stuff shows up in the terminal window).

If not, try going to System > Preferences > Keyboard.  I was having this problem and I just set it to my laptop model and it works fine now.

---

### Post by philcamlin on 2009-07-16
try swiutching with another keyboard is it the keyboard thats the issue?

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-16
> **sdlynx said:**
> If you type ```
xev
``` in the terminal you can see whether the buttons are being registered (just press one and see if any stuff shows up in the terminal window).
The system registers the buttons as being pressed. They simply don't perform their functions.

> If not, try going to System > Preferences > Keyboard.  I was having this problem and I just set it to my laptop model and it works fine now.I tried this on my laptop (choosing "Acer keyboard" since there was no specific entry for my laptop) and it didn't solve anything. There isn't an entry at all under Microsoft keyboards for the keyboard I use.

> try swiutching with another keyboard is it the keyboard thats the issue?I don't have another keyboard here at the moment. However, I doubt it is since it's happened on two separate computers.

---

### Post by philcamlin on 2009-07-16
did you spill anything on the keyboard as of late

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-16
> **philcamlin said:**
> did you spill anything on the keyboard as of late
No.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-16
Bump. Please help?

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-17
Bump.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-18
Is this problem really so difficult that nobody can help with it? =/

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2009-07-19
> **Andorin said:**
>  Is this problem really so difficult that nobody can help with it? =/

I hope someone can help you. Reading this thread taught me something. I was amazed to discover that all those extra buttons actually DO something. Wow! I didn't know that! I think your problem in seeking help is that there are a probably a lot of people like me out there who never use those buttons at all.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-19
Having finally determined the problem, with some help, I've changed my thread title and original post.

Edit: Damn, title didn't change... =/

---

### Post by Elfy on 2009-07-19
Title changed.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-19
> **forestpixie said:**
> Title changed.
Thank you. =)

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-20
Bump.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-21
Bump.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-22
Another bump. =/

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-26
Bump.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-07-26
Presumably checking the settings on the System->preferences->Keyboard Shortcuts menu wasn't much help

---

### Post by Tomatz on 2009-07-26
Have you tried re-assigning the keys manually?

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-07-31
> **lisati said:**
> Presumably checking the settings on the System->preferences->Keyboard Shortcuts menu wasn't much help
Correct.

> **Tomatz said:**
> Have you tried re-assigning the keys manually?
Yes.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-08-01
Bump.

---

### Post by Doctor Debian on 2009-08-01
Holy crap, WoW gold farmers on the Ubuntu forums?

...

Anyway, have you made any changes to compiz keybindings as of late? They ruined my Ventrilo's PTT capability.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-08-04
> **Doctor Debian said:**
> Holy crap, WoW gold farmers on the Ubuntu forums?
o_0

> Anyway, have you made any changes to compiz keybindings as of late? They ruined my Ventrilo's PTT capability.
Although I don't know how to access those, I may have accidentally messed with them at some point whilst trying to fix this issue. How do I check?

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-08-09
bump.

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-08-11
Bump...

---

### Post by Andorin on 2009-08-11
This problem has been solved. I was told to post the solution, so here it is:

I fixed this by going into the Configuration Editor:

```
gconf-edit
```

I then navigated: Apps --> Metacity --> global_keybindings

I used a command that was disabled (in this case, "run command 1" for simplicity) and changed "disabled" to "XF86Calculator." That is the name of the key that opens my Calculator. You can find the names of these keys by pressing them in xev (run from terminal) or looking in System --> Preferences --> Keyboard Shortcuts, assuming you have the defaults set.

After setting XF86Calculator in global_keybindings, I went to keybindings_command, found run command 1, and in the Value section put in:

```
gcalctool
```

Which is the terminal command that runs the calculator. Voila, my Calculator hotkey now brings up the Calculator.

Basically, under global_keybindings, enter the name of the key to which you want to assign a function. In keybindings_command, enter the terminal command you would use to perform the function. The system will map the function to that key.

Thanks to edbian for finding the solution with me.

---

