---
title: "14.04: nautilus crashing, slow to the point of inoperability"
date: 2014-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by morganpatrick on 2014-04-20
Hello,

I installed 14.04 on my laptop, and now nautilus keeps crashing. I will open it through the launcher, it will take forever to open a window, and then, when I try to navigate through folders, it will freeze up and I will get a prompt that the file manager is non-responsive, with the options to either wait or force-quit.

When I start nautilus from the terminal, it never freezes all the way to that prompt, but it's slow to the point of being unusable. The only message I got from the terminal was the following:

```
Nautilus-Share-Message: Called "net usershare info" but it failed: 'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error No such file or directory
Please ask your system administrator to enable user sharing.
```

When I installed samba, this message stopped appearing.

I used to run 12.04 with gnome fallback and I never had a problem like this. I am running the 64 bit version of the OS. I don't know what other information would be relevant, but I'm happy to give more details if necessary.

Thanks!

---

### Post by SuperFreak on 2014-04-26
I can't help you but only add that I am having problems with Nautilus on 14.04 also. I get a system error message on boot which asks to be reported. I have discovered the error is related to Nautilus

---

### Post by morganpatrick on 2014-05-06
OK, well, I have solved this problem for myself. I didn't know what the Templates folder was for (and I still don't), but I liked the icon with the document and the protractor, so I remed the folder 'work' and was using it to store all my work materials. This was causing nautilus to slow to a crawl. So, word to the wise, just delete /Templates if you aren't going to use it, and don't try to repurpose it.

---

### Post by myrion-the-first on 2014-09-30
Sorry for the slight necro: Templates is for the right-click "New" option.
If you put, say an empty file named "Textfile.txt" into Templates, then you get the option to create a new "Textfile" anywhere which will create a .txt File.
Or you can put a file with content there, and then use it as, well, a template.

If you put all your work files into it, then Nautilus will try to make a "New" option for all the files you have in there. Which for 100s of files is gonna be slow.

Hope that this helps :)

---

