---
title: "11.04 Not Supported Anymore?? (have some questions)"
date: 2012-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by johnsmoke on 2012-11-05
[FONT=Helv][SIZE=2][FONT=Helv][SIZE=2]Ok, so over the weekend I got the scary looking message on my screen telling me that Ubuntu 11.04 is not supported anymore, then it gave me the option to upgrade if I wanted to, but I opted out for the moment. Ubuntu 11.04 has been great for me and I'd rather not mess with a good thing. If I absolutely have to switch, I'd rather wait a couple of weeks as I'm completing a fairly big project with LibreOffice Word. I've heard before that a fresh install is much better than picking the "upgrade" option, is this true? Also, should I go with the latest version? Which version is the most stable at this point? Things have been so great with 11.04, I worry if I'll have issues with a new version, but with each version, there's more drivers and things implemented, correct? Anyway, it will be a few weeks at least before I decide to upgrade, so I'm just trying to figure out now what the best way to do it is.
[/SIZE][/FONT][/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by dannyboy79 on 2012-11-05
if you haven't done TONS of changes to a default system then "most" times an upgrade will go thru without a hitch.

you could always download 11.10 and burn it to either a cd or put it on a usb stick and try it out on your hardware to make sure eveything still works out of the box.

if you like having a stable system for long periods of time, i would suggest only using the LTS releases. I am still on 10.04 because of it being supported for 5 years or more. I am switching to 12.04 very soon as it's the next LTS release.

for you to get to 12.04, just upgrade to 11.10, once that's done the option to upgrade to 12.04 will show up.

Good luck

---

### Post by critin on 2012-11-05
You don't have to switch until you want to.   No support means 11.04 won't be getting any more security updates, but the system will still run fine.  Be careful of the sites you visit and stuff you download.

When you do switch, go with 12.04 LTS.  12.10 is not stable yet.  Also, create a live cd/usb of 12.04 and try it before installing.   Yes, it's best to fresh install.  

If you already have a HOME partition for data, your stuff should be safe during upgrade/install, but study how-to's before changing partitions.

---

### Post by johnsmoke on 2013-01-07
> **critin said:**
> You don't have to switch until you want to. No support means 11.04 won't be getting any more security updates, but the system will still run fine. Be careful of the sites you visit and stuff you download.
 
When you do switch, go with 12.04 LTS. 12.10 is not stable yet. Also, create a live cd/usb of 12.04 and try it before installing. Yes, it's best to fresh install. 
 
If you already have a HOME partition for data, your stuff should be safe during upgrade/install, but study how-to's before changing partitions.
 
 
Thanks for the info. I recently made a disc of 12.04, and will go with that version. I'm currently making a little word doc of a plan for my upgrade and am writing down apps that I need etc... so that I can re-add them upon the fresh install. Appreciate the information. Thanks much.

---

