---
title: "10.04 boot stuck in memtest"
date: 2010-09-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by unbuntued on 2010-09-24
Hi,

I've installed a fresh version of 10.04 server.
I found out that it often simply freezes, throwing some awkward kernel panic message and freezing the system altogether. So I thought the problem might be related to an unstable kernel which I removed through apt-get (with the intention of installing an older kernel), the kernel removed is:
2.6.32-24-generic-pae

Now, 10.04 is stuck in booting on memtest86+.
I am able to get the the grub menu, but I am not very familiar with it, so I need some help at this point.

Doing an 'ls /boot' reveals only:
memtest86+.bin


How can I fix this problem and be able to boot normally again?

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-09-24
Do you have an ubuntu liveCD?

---

### Post by unbuntued on 2010-09-24
Yes, I do. Can I simply boot from it into Ubuntu and fix the problems in the existing installation?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-09-24
You can try "ls (hdX,Y)/boot" with X,Y being the drive/partition. Drive count starts at 0, partitions at 1. So sda1 would be hd0,1.

It looks like you may not have *any* kernels installed. That would explain why G2 boots to memtest86+. It might be the only or first option in the Grub menu.

You can boot the LiveCD, chroot into your normal partition, and then add the kernel back using "apt-get install linux-image". This might install the kernel you were having problems with, but it will at least boot. You could also install the specific kernel by name if you know what you are looking for.

I just wrote a chroot post today on how to reinstall Grub2. But you can use it to chroot into your installed partition and then just run the apt-get command above instead of purging/reinstalling G2, which I don't think is your problem.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099")

And of course, once you've chrooted, you can explore what's really on your system if it's a different problem.

---

