---
title: "Can't set permissions on a new drive, even as sudo."
date: 2007-09-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mjpatey on 2007-09-10
I've formatted a brand-new 500GB external USB hard drive as FAT32.  I've mounted it as sda1 in /media.  And I can't write to it.

So I went into gksudo nautilus to change permissions.  Indeed, the "permissions" options do appear to be available under sudo, but when I try to change them, I get a message saying I'm not allowed to!  At this point, I'm root, so I'm a little offended.  :-)

Here's what it looks like:

> drwxr-xr-x  2 root root    16384 2007-09-10 23:34 sda1

...and my /etc/fstab:

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=143ea10a-d1bc-40ea-8b7f-f4d9c98ab460 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=BC30DECB30DE8BB0 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb3 :
UUID=44F8-3234 /media/hdb3 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=d0ac6e0e-413b-4dc9-977d-2ea701556a68 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
# And this one's for the big dude (/dev/sda1) :
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1    vfat    defaults        0       2

I'm not at all well-versed in how to fix issues like this via the command line, but am very comfortable doing it if you can point me in the right direction.  My attempt in GUI-land has inexplicably failed.

Thanks for any help you may have!

-Mark

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-09-11
Try this:

/dev/sda1 /media/sda1    vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-09-11
merlinus posted a change to fstab.

You need to edit fstab with :

```
gksu gedit /etc/fstab
```

You can also install ntfs-config a gui app to configure FAT and NTFS partitions :

ntfs-config : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=337970](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=337970)

For more info, see these links :

_Windows:_ [Psychocats Mount windows ](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)
For read-write: [list=number][*]vfat (FAT) use umask=000

and fstab : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?&t=283131)

---

### Post by mjpatey on 2007-09-11
Thanks, folks.  I did change the line that refers to my new drive to this:

```
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
```

...but it had no effect.  I thought maybe it required a logout and login to re-access fstab, so I tried that, but to no avail.

I still can't copy any files to it, and when I try to change permissions using "gksudo nautilus" it once again lets me *try* to change the owner and other permissions, but then tells me I'm not allowed, even under gksudo.  Could this be because of some weirdness with FAT32?

The drive very cordially shows up on my Desktop automatically at the start of every session, but I can't do anything with it yet.  :?

Any idea what I can try from here?

-Mark

---

### Post by callan79 on 2007-09-11
> **mjpatey said:**
> I still can't copy any files to it, and when I try to change permissions using "gksudo nautilus" it once again lets me *try* to change the owner and other permissions, but then tells me I'm not allowed, even under gksudo.  Could this be because of some weirdness with FAT32?

Hi Mark,

Quick quick, before you fill your drive up, why did you format that as FAT32?

Benefits :
 - share data between Linux and Windows
 - no other benefits

Problems :
 - it's a Proprietary file system
 - it's Microsoft
 - Max file size is 4GB (how will you store a Linux DVD ISO, or a big video clip or backup archive?)


Unless you have a particular reason for FAT32, I suggest format the drive as EXT3 Linux File System. Then you can use permissions to change the mount point and it's just better.

Benefits :
 - Open Source file system
 - EXT3 needs no defrag etc
 - File size limit is more than 4GB
 - Using tools at [www.fs-driver.org](http://www.fs-driver.org) you can share with Windows

Problems :
 - on your computer, none
 - can be a little bit of a pain to install fs-driver on other computers, if this is a portable drive


Hope this helps!

Cheers
Callan

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-09-11
> **mjpatey said:**
> Thanks, folks.  I did change the line that refers to my new drive to this:

```
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
```

...but it had no effect.  I thought maybe it required a logout and login to re-access fstab, so I tried that, but to no avail.

I still can't copy any files to it, and when I try to change permissions using "gksudo nautilus" it once again lets me *try* to change the owner and other permissions, but then tells me I'm not allowed, even under gksudo.  Could this be because of some weirdness with FAT32?

The drive very cordially shows up on my Desktop automatically at the start of every session, but I can't do anything with it yet.  :?

Any idea what I can try from here?

-Mark

For the changes in fstab to take effect, you have to unmount and the remount the partition.

sudo umount /media/sda1
sudo mount /media/sda1

You can do this via rebooting as well ;)

---

### Post by mjpatey on 2007-09-11
Callan,

Yes, that's exactly what I'm using it for.  My computer is Ubuntu-only, but the other 2 computers in the house are Windows, and this is being used as a portable archival drive.  It's actually an external USB 2.0 enclosure that accepts 3.5" IDE/SATA, etc. drives, and its first drive is this 500GB one.

I could format it as ext3 and just make it a network share so everyone can copy to it, but I want to be able to plug it directly into Windows computers, take it to other locations, etc.

My other option was NTFS-3G.  Feisty seems to have no problem with the NTFS-formatted drive I have in this computer, and that would certainly be compatible with the Winders boxes.

So is FAT32 the cause of my inability to set permissions?  If so, would I be any better off with NTFS, or is my dream of big portable storage that can move between Linux and Windows machines just a pipe dream?

---

### Post by andymushu on 2007-09-11
i have an external usb hard drive that is formatted as ntfs and i have it set up as a network share. both linux and windows computers can connect to it and read/write to it. if i plug it directly into a windows computer it works fine as well. ntfs is probably your best bet. btw, i use ntfs-3g on the ubuntu it is connected to.

---

### Post by mjpatey on 2007-09-11
bodhi.zazen,

Thanks, that did the trick!  Actually, the umount/mount had no effect for me, but after the reboot I can now copy files to the drive!

I'm curious, for my application (portable drive that we also want to connect to Windows computers), is FAT32 my best option?  I do understand there's a 4GB filesize limit, though I thought I read that was only in Windows.  Would NTFS-3G be any better?  My Feisty box seems perfectly happy reading and writing to it.

Thanks for any insight!

-Mark

---

### Post by mjpatey on 2007-09-11
Thanks, andymushu.  I hate post lag!  I may just reformat this drive in NTFS unless somebody replies here with good advice to the contrary.

Is NTFS-3G any faster than FAT32 on either Ubuntu or Windows?

---

### Post by danhm on 2007-09-11
I would think that NTFS is a better choice than FAT32. From what I understand, it is suppose to fragment less and doesn't have that 4GB limit.

You could also have a very small partition in FAT32 or NTFS that only has the Windows EXT2/3 driver and a text file explaining what it is, and then have everything else in the EXT3 partition.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-09-11
If you are going to share the drive, where is it going to primarily reside, what is your primary OS ?

If you primary OS iw windows, +1 ntfs

If your primary OS iw Ubuntu, go for ext3

You can mount the ext3 as a share to windows or install a driver on windows to read ext3 :

_For access to ext2/3 from windows see_ : [http://www.fs-driver.org/](http://www.fs-driver.org/)


This will help when (not if, but it is a mater of time) you have problems with the file system and it needs to be maintained or repaired. ie it is easier to repair a ntfs partition from windows and an ext3 from linux.

Just my 2c, you will be fine either way.

---

### Post by callan79 on 2007-09-12
> **mjpatey said:**
> Yes, that's exactly what I'm using it for.  My computer is Ubuntu-only, but the other 2 computers in the house are Windows, and this is being used as a portable archival drive.  It's actually an external USB 2.0 enclosure that accepts 3.5" IDE/SATA, etc. drives, and its first drive is this 500GB one.
I could format it as ext3 and just make it a network share so everyone can copy to it, but I want to be able to plug it directly into Windows computers, take it to other locations, etc.


Hi,

I understand what you're trying to do now, and I still say that ext3 is best. Good security, integrates perfectly with Ubuntu, and it's just easy.

The only 'catch' is you'll need to install fs-driver on each Windows machine you want to use with that drive.

If it were me, I'd do :

 - 480GB - ext3
 - 20GB - fat32 'emergency' area, and keep a copy of the fs-driver installation program on there

Good luck :)

Cheers
Callan

---

