---
title: "X Server repair leaves me needing to start over with ATI drivers, compiz"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by toddah1971 on 2009-01-11
Long story short.
I got a new monitor.  In playing with System|Screen Resolution it caused me to get the black screen - must've selected a bad resolution/refresh rate combination.  I went through Repair X Server during boot to get my screen back.  This caused ATI drivers and compiz to stop working.  I followed a few set of instructions I get from web search on which drivers to install/uninstall in order to get things back to normal.  No such luck though.

Long story short, I need to start from scrath to get the right video drivers and compiz up and running.  I would hate to think that I would need to reformat/reinstall Ubuntu.  I'm a Linux noob and am really stuck at this point.  Does anybody have any advice.  My video card is Radeon HD 4650 and I am running Ubuntu 8.10.

TIA.

---

### Post by SnakeHips on 2009-01-11
> **toddah1971 said:**
> Long story short.
I got a new monitor.  In playing with System|Screen Resolution it caused me to get the black screen - must've selected a bad resolution/refresh rate combination.  I went through Repair X Server during boot to get my screen back.  This caused ATI drivers and compiz to stop working.  I followed a few set of instructions I get from web search on which drivers to install/uninstall in order to get things back to normal.  No such luck though.

Long story short, I need to start from scrath to get the right video drivers and compiz up and running.  I would hate to think that I would need to reformat/reinstall Ubuntu.  I'm a Linux noob and am really stuck at this point.  Does anybody have any advice.  My video card is Radeon HD 4650 and I am running Ubuntu 8.10.

TIA.

Would you post the output from xorg.conf ,it'll help to see whats going on.

from terminal
```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by toddah1971 on 2009-01-11
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

