---
title: "11.04 : xfce-notifyd &quot;Dont Show This Again&quot;, Over and Over"
date: 2011-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CossRooper on 2011-05-05
Hello xubuntu users,

I'm experiencing a problem where any recurring notification that appears through xfce's notification daemon (such as Wireless Connection and Disconnection notices) has a "Don't show this notification" button that simply keeps stacking buttons next to one another. 

Here's an example: [http://i.imgur.com/nkWVI.png](http://i.imgur.com/nkWVI.png) (See top right of screen)

I would just click the button, but I do in fact want to see these notifications again :D

Is anyone else experiencing this?

---

### Post by Chrissd on 2011-05-05
Same thing happening here. I clicked the button since; whilst I would like to have notifications, I'd rather have none than it run off my screen like it currently does. Clicking the buttons makes no difference... I found this thread searching for an answer for this problem. :(

---

### Post by CossRooper on 2011-05-05
Well, I'm just glad we both have the problem... isolated cases don't get bugfix packages but if everyone has the problem we will get a solution. I'll work on a bug report for it tonight and post up a link in this thread so we can drum up a little attention...

---

### Post by Chrissd on 2011-05-06
Screenshot for demonstration purposes.

[[IMG]http://img192.imageshack.us/img192/1268/notificationse.th.png[/IMG]](http://img192.imageshack.us/img192/1268/notificationse.png)

---

### Post by Chrissd on 2011-05-08
Hi,

Mine has not stopped doing this... Not sure if update fixed it or not, but thought I'd let you know. I don't recall doing anything proactive to fix it.

---

### Post by zzzzaxxxx on 2011-05-11
Hi,

I'm experiencing the same problem here. Did anyone already filed a bug report for this?

---

### Post by jackeycod on 2011-05-16
happens to me as well

---

### Post by JasonDalmond on 2011-05-20
Same thing here. Is it gonna be bug?

---

### Post by cafejunkie on 2011-05-20
I noticed the same thing on one of my Xubuntu installs (it also occurs in a minimal xfce4 install). 
Have you filed a bug report? This does not occur on Arch, or Gentoo so it is Xubuntu specific.
Have you tried replacing the xfce4-notifyd with Ubuntu's notify-osd? That should fix the problem (only if you actually want to use ubuntu's notify-osd of course).

---

### Post by zzzzaxxxx on 2011-05-24
There already exists a bug report on this, which was first filed almost a year ago, though someone bumped it two weeks ago:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notification-daemon/+bug/606825](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/notification-daemon/+bug/606825)

---

