---
title: "9.10 live CD goes to black screen w/ cursor"
date: 2009-10-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by akijikan on 2009-10-08
My system configuration:

**MOBO:** [Asrock 4CoreDual-SATA2]("http://www.asrock.com/MB/overview.asp?Model=4CoreDual-SATA2")
**CPU:** Pentium E5200 Dual-Core 2.5ghz
**RAM:** 1GB DDR-400
**Video** ATI RadeonHD 2600XT 512MB **AGP**

I boot into the Live-CD and select the first option.  I get the grey splash screen, and then a black screen with a timer cursor and eventually a pointer cursor.  It stays on this screen and nothing I can see happens.  I can Alt to a prompt, but if I try to go back to the xserver it freezes and cannot shutdown the computer.

I'm guessing this is a video driver/card issue, but I'm not sure where to proceed.

---

### Post by akijikan on 2009-10-10
bump

---

### Post by akijikan on 2009-11-08
bump

---

### Post by akijikan on 2009-11-08
I tried a wubi installation and I get the same thing.

surely someone knows something about this...

should I report it as a bug?

---

### Post by munky99999 on 2009-11-08
My guess would be driver issue with the ati card. However I am fairly unsure about that. As I have ati 4xxx agp. The opensource and closed source drivers cover your card. While mines isnt. Yet it still works fine on livecd. Infact 9.10 autoconfiguration with installation went smoothly for me.

My first suggestion would be to verify the live cd hasnt been corrupted. Simply boot in on another machine. Friend's or yours.

---

### Post by akijikan on 2009-11-08
> **munky99999 said:**
> My first suggestion would be to verify the live cd hasnt been corrupted. Simply boot in on another machine. Friend's or yours.

Thanks for the suggestion.  I tried that and had no problems on a couple of friends' computers.  I also did a checksum on the ISO and a verification of the burned CD.

I've also gotten this with the wubi installation I did, though I imagine the installation is the same as a liveCD, just installed, right?

How can I change to a different video driver?

---

