---
title: "10.04 firefox with &quot;not allowed&quot; icon"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wordmaster on 2010-05-08
For some reason there is a circle with a diagonal bar as in "not allowed" on my firefox icon at the top of the screen. Firefox will start and work, but is very slow. Any help appreciated. Any answers?

---

### Post by mnichau on 2010-05-18
My firefox icons also got messed up after upgrade to 10.04. I have a default launcher icon in the main bar and a generic application icon in "Applications->Internet" instead of proper firefox icons. i.e. no icon is actually assigned in both cases.

Both work and launch firefox, though.
I'll see if there's a bug already on Launchpad. If not, I'll file it there...

I also found that the firefox icons provided under /usr/share/icons/Humility are blue globes and not standard firefox icons we're used to, but I guess *that* at least was intended.

---

### Post by mnichau on 2010-05-18
I found and commented on some semi-related bugs on Launchpad:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/560237](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/560237)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/app-install-data-ubuntu/+bug/518985](https://bugs.launchpad.net/app-install-data-ubuntu/+bug/518985)


Anyway, if you're looking for a quick fix, you can right click on any icon in the Gnome panel and choose "Properties". Then you only have to click on the large icon button and select the icon you like.

Similarly to change an icon in the Applications menu, go to "System->Preferences->Main Menu" and find and edit it there.

You can find nice scalable Firefox icons under /usr/share/icons/<theme name>/scalable/apps/

The icons themeselves are called firefox.svg, mozilla-firefox.svg, firefox-icon.svg or maybe other similar names depending on the theme, so you have to check for each theme.

Not all the themes have actual firefox icons. If you're looking for something familiar try these themes: Nuovo, Nuvola (standard firefox icon), and yasis.

Try other themes if you're OK with more generic icons - globes, usually.

I hope this helps :)

---

