---
title: ".bashrc questions"
date: 2019-07-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by COKEDUDE on 2019-07-20
Are there any advantages of doing one over the other in your .bashrc? They both seem to do the same thing.

```
HISTFILESIZE=10000 
HISTSIZE=10000
```


```
export HISTFILESIZE=10000 
export HISTSIZE=10000
```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-07-20
history stuff is part of your shell.  The place to learn about any specific shell is the manpage for that shell.
**man bash** if you use bash.
man zsh if you use that shell.
man tcsh
man psh
man ksh
you get the idea.

In some shells, you can have it ignore really short commands. In most shells, if you begin any command with a space, it isn't added to the history.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2019-07-20
I hope I won't get flak for saying this, but I find the man page for bash to be especially gruesome. It is arcane, obscure, long, dense and filled with jargon, technicalities and geek-speak. Gurus may find it navigable and informative, but ordinary mortals cannot parse it.

@OP, perhaps the following link will help (I personally have no idea, the whole topic being well above my pay grade): [https://linuxconfig.org/learning-linux-commands-export](https://linuxconfig.org/learning-linux-commands-export)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-07-21
> **DuckHook said:**
> I hope I won't get flak for saying this, but I find the man page for bash to be especially gruesome. It is arcane, obscure, long, dense and filled with jargon, technicalities and geek-speak. Gurus may find it navigable and informative, but ordinary mortals cannot parse it.

@OP, perhaps the following link will help (I personally have no idea, the whole topic being well above my pay grade): [https://linuxconfig.org/learning-linux-commands-export](https://linuxconfig.org/learning-linux-commands-export)

When I was first learning Unix, all my peers in the lab refused to answer any question that was covered in the manpages. It drove me crazy for the first 4 months because I knew they knew the answers.  They forced me to learn to read the manpages AND understand what was meant.  Every subject area in the world, if full of jargon. The only way to learn it is by using it, seeing what the jargon means and fitting it into place. 

It takes time to learn, but like any long journey, that learning won't begin until the first step is taken.  There are subtle things covered in manpages which explain the caveats and exception for each command. The more complex the human interface, the more caveats and exceptions there seem to be.  Shells are, by far, the most complex tools on our systems.  By far.

The good news is that the specific question asked is easy to get the answer from the bash manpage. There is a paragraph entry for each.

---

