---
title: "10.04 and 12.04 can't &quot;see&quot; each other, no file sharing"
date: 2012-06-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Randy M on 2012-06-03
I have three Ubuntu systems in the house. Two are 10.04, the third is 12.04. The two 10.04 systems can share files through the "Places" - "Network" option, but they can't seem to find the 12.04 system. The 12.04 system can't find the other two. I know they can communicate since I was able to install a shared printer on the 12.04 system that resides on one of the 10.04 systems. Any ideas about how to make them all "play nice?" Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2012-06-03
> **Randy M said:**
> I have three Ubuntu systems in the house. Two are 10.04, the third is 12.04. The two 10.04 systems can share files through the "Places" - "Network" option, but they can't seem to find the 12.04 system. The 12.04 system can't find the other two. I know they can communicate since I was able to install a shared printer on the 12.04 system that resides on one of the 10.04 systems. Any ideas about how to make them all "play nice?" Thanks in advance.

Try the solution shown in post #8 [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1994941").

---

### Post by Randy M on 2012-06-04
I got some strange errors when I followed those instructions, so I uninstalled and reinstalled SAMBA. That, and the instructions that you pointed to, seems to have cleared it up. Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by bab1 on 2012-06-04
> **Randy M said:**
> I got some strange errors when I followed those instructions, so I uninstalled and reinstalled SAMBA. That, and the instructions that you pointed to, seems to have cleared it up. Thanks for the help!

Perfect!  Glad I could help.

---

