---
title: "20.04.2 system - Will not respect Synaptic package lock at a specific version"
date: 2021-07-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mdlueck on 2021-07-03
Greetings,

I recently finally upgraded my trusty system which I had upgraded via LTS for several versions of Xubuntu.... held at the 16.04 release. Now have a freshly loaded Xubuntu 20.04.2 system.

For Mozilla apps, I use the UbuntuZilla repository. I run the latest SeaMoneky, and Firefox as a browser I locked at v79.

I have the UbuntuZilla package of FF 79 downloaded.

Synatpic does not respect I want that package version locked / pinned. When I place a lock on that package in Synaptic, then refresh, mark all updates, Synaptic marks that locked version for upgrade, and insists on trying to actually update that locked version! I have had to purge off, reinstall my desired version from local package file, re-lock the package.... Synaptic will not stop trying to upgrade it.

This smells like a bug in this 20.04.2 version I upgraded to.

Thoughts anyone?

I am thankful,

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2021-07-10
Greetings again,

For what ever reason, Synaptic does not appear to respect Package Locks in the current LTS release.

However I utilized:

$ sudo apt-mark hold firefox-esr-mozilla-build
$ sudo apt-mark hold firefox-mozilla-build
$ apt-mark showhold
firefox-esr-mozilla-build
firefox-mozilla-build

When I started, apt-mark did not see the lock on the two packages the Synaptic UI still recognized.

Now Synaptic no longer tries to update the packages from the versions I want maintained.

Probably a defect against Synaptic.

I am thankful,

---

### Post by mdlueck on 2021-07-11
Greetings,

Seems this defect is already known / logged....

synaptic: ‘Lock Version’ is broken; use dpkg hold
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/synaptic/+bug/42178](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/synaptic/+bug/42178)

From my post to that defect case... seems odd and incorrect if that is the case. I would think to be dpkg compatible, Synaptic should use the same flag as other dpkg / apt tools, no?

Anyway, for us this is a definite new break moving from 16.04 to 20.4.2 versions.

I am thankful,

---

