---
title: "11.10 Wont boot following update."
date: 2011-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Vic20 on 2011-11-14
My system found and installed some updates yesterday.  Now, on boot up it stops with the following messages..


board has no eeprom 
Your board has no unique USB ID.
A hint were successfully done. based on i2c devicelist hash
This method is not 100% failproof.
If the board were missdetected. please email this log to oV4l Mailing list
Board detected as EM2860/SAA711X Reference design
recv bulk message failed: -110


The machine boots up ok in recovery mode and dual boots Windows fine
Pretty much a newbie on terminal stuff

Thanks

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-14
Try to reboot and from Grub options go to recovery mode.

Then choose to do a fsck

Many times all the problems are solved like this.

---

### Post by Vic20 on 2011-11-14
forgot to say, when I choose recovery mode, the screen blanks completely, only on hitting 'return' twice does the machine continue to boot. 

Do I type 'fsck' blindly and hit enter while the screen is blank?

---

### Post by Vic20 on 2011-11-18
Can anyone help with this?  

I've found that logging in at the prompt presented when the boot stops then entering 'sudo lightdm' brings up the desktop where I can once again log in. Something obviously is stopping the lightm process during the normal boot.

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-18
If you cannot even go to recovery mode, you should consider a reinstall of Ubuntu.

Before that boot from a Live CD or USB and copy and backup all your data.

---

### Post by Vic20 on 2011-11-21
Can anyone help me based on the error messages I am getting in my first post??

I login after the machine exits to a terminal fullscreen..

I then type sudo lightdm, and enter my password. I am given the graphical login screen where I can login again (for the third time) and get to the Unity desktop!

I really don't think this is a problem that requires a reinstall!?

---

