---
title: "Display Problem"
date: 2009-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aaronmarsh632 on 2009-05-12
Hi, I have just moved house and when i fired my computer backup, all the display settings had changed. I'm using the nvidia driver and software but there is no option in the list for my screen res (1024x768)

I have looked in 'System>Prefrences>screen resolution, but nothin there either.

Here is the contents of my xorg.conf file.

[I]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
[/I]

Please can anyone help me get 1024x768 back? I have also tried backups of the xorg file but nothin' works.

Thanks

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-05-12
Have you done all the updates for your system and tried go to Hardware Drivers to enable your accelerated graphic card driver?

If so, try de-activating the driver, restart, and activate, restart and see if it's fixed.

---

### Post by exutable on 2009-05-12
Yeah,

I had problems with my nvidia drivers and exactly what Tipped OuT said helped.  I'm pretty sure he is right that you're proprietary drivers aren't working.

---

### Post by aaronmarsh632 on 2009-05-12
Hi, thanks for the replies, I already tried that tho last nite and it didnt work, I even tried installing the previous version but nothin :(

---

