---
title: "[SOLVED] Forum Searches"
date: 2008-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bilijoe on 2008-05-12
The forum search engine appears to be broken. :confused:  Or my machine has a problem.  The search appears to run, but only a blank page appears, instead of the search results.

---

### Post by Mud.Knee.Havoc on 2008-05-12
> **bilijoe said:**
> The forum search engine appears to be broken. :confused:  Or my machine has a problem.  The search appears to run, but only a blank page appears, instead of the search results.

It works for me using Firefox Beta 5.
EDIT: I've also got cookies and scripting allowed on ubuntuforums.org.
EDIT #2: I just turned scripting off, searching still works. If this problem just appeared out of nowhere, maybe try flushing your cache and restarting your browser?

Sorry I can't help with your problem!  Hopefully somebody will read this and know how to solve your problem.

---

### Post by bilijoe on 2008-05-22
Well, it still doesn't work very well for me!  I no longer get a blank screen, which I admit is a significant improvement, but I tried a few test searches, for stuff I knew would be out there.  The result?  As many as eight, completely irrelevant results, before anything, even remotely related to my search terms--and these seemed to be in order of "least relevant", to "somewhat relevant".  I really don't understand.  The old search engine worked _so_ _well!_  It consistently popped up highly relevant, very useful results, _every_ _time!_  Everything we do in this world of Linux, is written in C/C++ (or, at least I assume so), which is, by far, the most powerful, flexible, _and_ _modular_ programming tool of all time!  Why on earth, can't the discriminatory code [module], that located, and arranged the results for the previous search utility, simply be lifted, wholesale, out of the old utility, and dropped, intact, into the new one.  And don't hand me any of that crap about things being "more complicated than that.'  Hogwash.  I programmed in a C/C++ environment for fifteen years, and time and time again, constructed entire [new] programs out of existing modules, with little more effort than a kindergarten student builds one style of castle, then another, then a service station, and finally an airport, out of the same set of blocks.  The concept is truly the same.  The practice can be equivalently easy, and don't try to tell me differently;  I know, because I have done it over, and over, and over again.  And I have fixed balky, or inaccurate programs, in a matter of minutes, by "borrowing" [well written] code modules from a working program, with similar functionality, and "dropping them into" the malfunctioning program, in place of the existing module[s], that weren't working satisfactorily.  

I hate to sound like I'm on a rant here, but the shortcomings of the current search tool have been a pain in the ... for me, since the day the forums were changed.  Furthermore, having spent fifteen years, programming some of the most demanding types of software, for some of the world's most demanding clients, often with National Security issues involved, I know, from copious first-hand experience, it doesn't have to be this way!  Had I not suffered some brain damage, as a result of the entirely too stressful environment I worked in, and lost my ability to program (as well as to reconcile my check book, etc.), I would gladly volunteer to [re]write the whole thing.  Unfortunately, that is not an option.  The best I can do, at this point, is to suggest a few books that some of your more prolific, and higher ranking software developers might want to read, in order to lead them into that world where, once the libraries are written and debugged, program creation, modification, alteration, and repair really do become as child's play--simply rearranging, and/or choosing different blocks, with which to build your different castles, service stations, and airports.  

I really don't want to come off as smug, or "holier than thou", though I probably already have.  I have just never been able to understand how it can be that so many truly good programmers seem to never "get it".  I should admit though, I have an advantage, but it's an advantage shared with many other programmers--especially those who are largely self-taught.  I have ADD.  Because of this, my mind works slightly differently from that of a non-ADD person.  Since the day I wrote my first non-trivial program, other programmers I knew found my approach, and the way in which I structured my code "strange".  I did so much work in C, and had such extensive libraries written in C (and assembly language), that I was very slow to jump on the C++ bandwagon, when it came along.  After a while, listening to my coworkers extol the significant advantages, and programming power of C++, I began to pay more and more attention to it, and, after having given it, what I thought, was a fair hearing, I was struck by the feeling that "I just don't get it.  What is it about this ++ stuff that so many people are so excited about?"  So, I decided I should find one of the best available books on the subject, study it, learn the ++ part of the language, and really give it a fair run, before passing it off as some kind of fad.  After spending several months in this endeavor (in between dealing with all the unrealistic demands of my job), one day, it struck me--I had a true Eureka moment.  I wasn't going to learn anything new from this book, or any other on the subject, except syntax.  From the day I began programming, my ADD brain, with its short[er than some] attention span, had just naturally organized code, and data, and associated definitions, etc, into neat little, well organized, flexible, reusable bundles--I called them "blocks", because they felt to me, and I used them, like children's building blocks.  I had a well developed library of macros that allowed me to trivially define and design, even relatively complex "blocks", and reduce them to "black boxes" that I could then use, with impunity, anywhere a program called for any variant, or extension of the functionality with which they had originally been designed.  I had been writing "object oriented" programs, since the days when my program source consisted of boxes of punch cards.  I just used different names, and different constructs for defining and using my "blocks" as compared to the "hot new concept in computer programming", *objects.*  

I never did convert, to the consternation of many of my colleagues.  My system already had, and had, for years had, all the advantages and flexibility, inheritance, etc., as did the ++ part of C++.  Remember C++ is officially defined as a group of extensions to the C programming language--just as my system of blocks was.  And, since the C language, underlying both systems was the same, and, since, once created and debugged, both objects, and blocks essentially became "black boxes" with well defined interfaces, it turned out to be relatively easy for me to read programs written in C++, and for my colleagues to read my programs (which relied on an intense use of the "macro" capability, of the good old Microsoft Macro Assembler), so much so that those few people, besides myself who used the system, and I came to see the macros  (behind which the Macro Assembler had pretty much disappeared) as a programming language in their own right--we called it  "Aspire".  (I can't take credit for that concept, it sprang from work I had once done on an operating system called "GeoDos", created by the folks at Berkley Softworks.)  

Anyway, I am sure most, if not all of you, have become exceedingly bored by this time, and long since quit reading, but before I go, I would like to offer suggestions for a reading list that I think can improve the quality of work of most any C programmer (++ or not).  At the top of my list is: ***Exploring Requirements**; Quality _Before_ Design*, by Donald C. Gause & Gerald M. Weinberg, ISBN 0-932633-13-7.  Next on my list is ***Debugging the Development Process***, by Steve Maguire, ISBN1-55615-650-2.  Next, I would recommend, ***Object Oriented Design***, by Peter Coad and Edward Yourdin (sorry, I don't have the ISBN #--my copy is loaned out).  And finally, if you can find it, a book that really has nothing to do with programming, per se, but one that had a great impact on me, and my approach to every project I embarked upon, ever since I read it.  I have long since lost track of my copy, so all I can offer is the title.  But if you can find it, I highly recommend it.  It's short, and easy reading--and packed with an incredible amount of simple common sense, that so many of us, so often neglect to exercise.  The book is called, ***Are Your Lights On?***  That's it.  I'm done.  Being ADD, I also tend to go on and on, at times. Please forgive me.  I hope, if nothing else, you at least found some humor, in the rantings of an old, long since has-been, hack.

---

### Post by bilijoe on 2008-07-20
I believe I have solved my own dilemma here.:smile: In the "Post New Thread" window, above the Message editing box, the "Check If Already Posted" button has a drop-down menu with the items "Search Current Forum Only", and "Search Thread Titles Only" selected by default. Apparently, this results in a rather constrained search. 

I have discovered that by unchecking both these items, I get a set of search results that is pretty much as useful as the results provided by the similar function in the pre-upgraded forum manager=D>.  This discovery has made me very happy:biggrin:, and I promise I will no longer be submitting any posts in which I grouse about the uselessness of the search for similar posts function. My only request now would be that the defaults for these two items be changed to unchecked, rather than the current default of checked. I hope anyone else who has been disappointed by the change in functionality of this feature sees this post, and finds the results provided with these items unchecked, as useful as I have\\:D/.  

I apologize for all my previous grumblings on this subject:redface:.

---

