---
title: "8.10 and nVidia GeForce fx5200"
date: 2009-01-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-01-05
I've tried to use the latest Ubuntu, and 8.04, on 2 desktop pcs I've had recently, one now deceased, and neither the onboard graphics nor a Zotac branded GeForce fx5200 pci card have worked - I get 800x600 display only.

I know this has caused others bother, also that there is some work in terminal to try, but it looks like that hasn't worked for at least some, and I also don't understand the process.  When someone says, "run a..." in terminal I don't know what they mean, ditto "edit xorg.config". I know it's a configuration file needing to be edited, but I don't know how that's done after terminal's started up.  

Both my onboard graphics - intel 810E, which I've now disabled since the card was fitted - and the fx5200 work with Ubuntu 6.06 - looked great, ran smooth - but I am hoping I can use the latest as my broadband method is Mobile Broadband, with a Vodafone USB 3G dongle, which only works with 8.10 (though Vodafone have ported their grim Windows software which I've found not to work or even install.  It would be/ would have been handy, in fact absolutely ideal, if the Mobile Broadband bit of 8.10 could be downloaded separately.

If it's known that the fx5200 can be made to work with 8.10, can I be please be given full, idiot-proof instruction.  If it's not going to pan out, it'll be Mandriva 2009 for me, as a compromise.

I've tried Xubuntu and Kubuntu also, version 6.06, 8.04 and 8.10, with the same results, and prefer Ubuntu.

In the meantime I've been using a Vista recovery disc from a dead laptop in its pre-activation 15-30 days, so you'll be keen to rescue me....  (With only 2.75 gb to spare now it's working surprisingly well, including Aero.)

Many thanks in advance.

(Fujitsu-Siemens Scenic T with D1371 motherboard, 1.3 ghz, 20 gb hd, 512 mb ram, FX5200 graphics)

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-01-05
Is there not one provided for you to activate in the restricted hardware drivers

---

### Post by tad1073 on 2009-01-05
[http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://www.albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html)

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
```

it will be in main menu>system tools

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2009-01-05
Try searching the forums for your specific card and see what you can find. In general graphics card drivers are installed by going to

System>Administration>Hardware Drivers

Selecting the one it recommends and clicking on Install

It downloads it and installs it. Then it requires a reboot.
After the reboot you go back to
System>Administration>Hardware Drivers
and make sure it is set to active.

If not activate it. If it is proceed to
System>Preferences>Screen Resolution
to set the screen resolution and refresh rate.

All done.

---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-01-05
Yes, this is what I failed at today - the driver would not stick, and I could not change the resolution, even after clicking on activate and a reboot.

---

### Post by Sofa_King_Cool79 on 2009-01-06
I too have the same card and installed ubuntu 8.10 I have installed the recommended drivers (version 173) under System>Administration>Hardware drivers, Its says its installed and active. I have rebooted several times and tried to configure the Nvidia X server settings and under system>preferences>screenresolution  it is still stuck at 640X480.

any suggestions??

---

### Post by wyaliao on 2009-01-12
Just would like to say that I have the same card and the same problem.

After the initial installation of Ubuntu 8.10, my max resolution was 800x600. Following the Nvidia driver update, and a reboot, the resolution had become 640x480 and 320x240 only......

I have tried several methods suggested from the forum, however, probably due to noob status, I did not get anywhere......

Really need some help, as I am trying to utilise this old desktop as a media centre using Ubuntu. It is now connected to a HDTV via s-video to s-video cable, but Ubuntu is telling me it is a CRT only......:confused:

---

### Post by electrogeist on 2009-01-12
Try different slots, I've found these cards to be kinda picky in both windows and linux.  Some higher-end motherboards will also have multiple PCI buses, with slots on different buses.  If that is the case try to keep it on a seperate bus from any high performance RAID controllers or GigE NICs.  If possible, go to a minimal hardware configuration and find the best slot for the graphics card first, then add the rest of the PCI cards afterwards.  You may find yourself needing to edit xorg.conf's BusID with values in the format of "PCI:1:0:0"

---

### Post by wyaliao on 2009-01-14
Unfortunately, the card came with my Dell Dimension 4600, and it uses AGP slot.
I want to ask, I am currently connecting the pc (VGA out) to TV (S-video in). Will this be one of the reason for having low rez as the true potential of the TV is not picked up?
I am going to try a DVI to HDMI cable, will post feed back soon.

Mean while, is there any other possible solutions to this issue?

Regards

---

### Post by piratebill on 2009-01-14
I could be wrong on this, but I don't think that nvidia supports that card under ubuntu past hardy.  X11 is different in these two distros, and nvidia has not opened their drivers enough to support older cards like the 5200.

---

### Post by hawkhock on 2009-01-14
I concur with piratebill.  After three days of reading posts and searching the forum, I learned that support for Nvidia GeForce FX5500 (which I have) has been discontinued.  This may be the same case for you. 

The best driver available for FX5500 is 173 and it is not compatible with 8.10.  Advice given to me was to downgrade to 8.04 which I did in order to run 3D packages.

If you find solution for your problem, would be interested to hear about it as it may also work for me.

---

### Post by wyaliao on 2009-01-15
Alright, the DVI to HDMI cable arrived today. Connected immediately, and voila, the display became 1920×1080!!! I think that's 1080p resolution. Alittle too detailed, so I changed to 1366×768.

Anyway, I am using Ubuntu 8.10 driver for my Geforce fx 5200, and the resolution is fantastic, unlike 800x600 or 640x480 in the last few days. Kinda scare to use Nvidia driver.....afraid it will change back.

I can only guess that the OS managed to identify the potential of my TV via the digital signal (DVI-HDMI), and was not able to do so when I connect to TV using VGA and S-video.

So my suggestion is to get the right cable first, before attempt changing the codes.....It was little overwhelming for a newbie like me. Ended up re-install Ubuntu many times :p

Love Ubuntu, hopefully I can contribute to it in the future :)

Good Luck everyone.

---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-01-16
Lucky you!  

Could any cable change help me out?  I am using a probably not too new unbranded 15 inch TFT monitor plugged into the back of the fx5200's normal monitor type socket.  Might things be different if using a digital TV plugged into the TV-out (is it S-video or something like that).

At any rate, it seems the driver isn't quite as inadequate as we were thinking?

The machine I was going to put Ubuntu on has Mandriva 2009 and is a bit sluggish with it so it'd be nice to learn I can try something else.

---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-02-04
(From a post I made elsewhere that might be of use.)

"A big breakthrough, and one that may be of use to some using the forum. My monitor's native 1078x768 is finally working.

I pasted bits of my xorg.conf that worked for Ubuntu 6.06 into the 8.10 xorg.conf, replacing its one.  These sections were concerning the monitor, screen and device.

I think the problem all along has been that Ubuntu, Xubuntu and Linux Mint (and Sabayon and gOS) haven't recognised my monitor, not the graphics card, though that may have played a part in flummoxing the installation.  The xorg.conf with 8.10 as made originally described the monitor as 'unknown' and 'crt', maybe because I have a quite old 15 inch TFT monitor connected with a normal crt monitor-type cable?  I'm not technical enough to know if this makes sense, but I've got a hunch.  It might explain why some people with a GeForce FX5200 aren't having trouble.

I've not installed the 173 driver, but with this old machine I don't think I'd get good 3D anyway (without things getting laggy when online) and the display is very good, it's the first I've seen of this in a month or longer of messing about.  I'm really pleased; with some adaptation this must be of use to others too.  If someone's pc was faster, I would think they could install 173 and then splice the extra monitor detail into the new xorg.conf."

---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-02-06
As the thread is still being read, I'll add that I now as of this afternoon have 3D and the correct screen resolution, working well on my 1.3 ghz machine.  Below is the xorg.conf that worked for Ubuntu 6.06.  I activated the restricted '173' driver for Ubuntu 8.10 as prompted by Ubuntu, then spliced in from the line beginning Section "Monitor" (i.e. _overwriting_ the equivalent lines Ubuntu had made in xorg.conf) and rebooted.  I'm not technically minded, but if someone from the Ubuntu team reads this maybe this still popular and troublesome card can have its Linux driver sorted out.  This would work for any 15 inch TFT monitor, wouldn't it? and with some modification for anyone else whose fx5200 has confused Ubuntu's recognition of the monitor in use.


Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nv"
	BusID		"PCI:1:9:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-51
	VertRefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NIVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Sofa_King_Cool79 on 2009-02-13
I fixed this issue by switching my VGA cable out for DVI cable. As soon as I put the DVI cable and started up my screen resolution was 1152X864. I didn't have to edit any .conf files, I successfully installed recommended 173 driver and got all of the effects and graphics working.

---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-02-13
Do you mean dvi to vga cable?  Or did your screen have a dvi socket?  I think I will try a dvi to vga lead when I install Ubuntu 9.04 in April before I paste in my bespoke driver file again, anyway.

---

### Post by razy60 on 2009-02-19
Hope you don't mind me jumping in but i have just put a bid into ebay for one of these cards as my integrated graphics have been playing up.
I only have a CRT monitor and as you seemed to be having problems with this card is it going to be worth me buying it?, 
My current specs are:
8.10
2.4ghz processor
2gig ram
on-board rubbish graphics
Dell Sony trinitron 19" CRT monitor
If you feel it would be OK can you recommend a good setup procedure.

Thanks 

Raz

---

### Post by bluesxman on 2009-02-19
> **frankwakeman said:**
> As the thread is still being read, I'll add that I now as of this afternoon have 3D and the correct screen resolution, working well on my 1.3 ghz machine.  Below is the xorg.conf that worked for Ubuntu 6.06.  I activated the restricted '173' driver for Ubuntu 8.10 as prompted by Ubuntu, then spliced in from the line beginning Section "Monitor" (i.e. _overwriting_ the equivalent lines Ubuntu had made in xorg.conf) and rebooted.  I'm not technically minded, but if someone from the Ubuntu team reads this maybe this still popular and troublesome card can have its Linux driver sorted out.  This would work for any 15 inch TFT monitor, wouldn't it? and with some modification for anyone else whose fx5200 has confused Ubuntu's recognition of the monitor in use.

[xorg.conf snipped]

I've been experiencing similar problems, again it looks like the culprit was the monitor not being detected rather than the graphics card. Like you I needed to append information to xorg.conf but I had to also include the modeline under the monitor section:

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "L1717S"
    Vendorname    "LG"
    Modelname    "LG L1717S"
    Horizsync    30.0-83.0
    Vertrefresh    56.0-75.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.284 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1152x864@75" 108.0 1152 1216 1344 1600 864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@75" 135.0 1280 1296 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@75" 129.86 1280 1368 1504 1728 960 961 964 1002 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@60" 122.61 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@75" 155.85 1400 1496 1648 1896 1050 1051 1054 1096 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@65" 175.5 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@60" 162.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1792x1344@60" 204.8 1792 1920 2120 2448 1344 1345 1348 1394 -hsync +vsync
    Gamma    1.0
EndSection

```
Credit goes to [this link]("https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/envyng-qt/+question/58816") for the eureka moment! Hope this helps someone.

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-02-19
I have the same card and had the same trouble as you with Ubuntu booting to low res.  I was using an old crt monitor and when I went to a new lcd monitor, the problem went away.  Now my computer boots up with whatever res I set up in the Mvidia menu.  I did have to install the nvidia "accelerated graphics driver version 173" from system/administration/hardware drivers".

---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-02-22
Rasy60, if you win/won the card and it doesn't work straight away, make a wee noise in this thread and I'll have a crack at helping.  If you go through this thread carefully though, I think you'll have a comfortable and swift learning curve of an adventure setting it up, as long as you install the 173 driver and ignore the temporary resolution worsening _before_ you splice any extra detail into the xorg.conf file.  

I found the driver is best installed through Synaptic rather than responding to the very temperamental hardware drivers prompt, but then going back and using that to 'activate' the driver afterwards.

The only thing I wouldn't know about is what details you might need to paste in.  The way I found out was by running a Ubuntu 6.06 live CD, which I downloaded especially, and finding out what worked there.

---

### Post by Gizenshya on 2009-02-22
hmmm...

I made a thread the other day, and it is very similar to this.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1076125](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1076125)

what changed should I make from my original xorg.conf file (which I posted there) to make it work?

my monitor is 1280x1024, standard 5:4 ratio (HP vs17c).

nvidia xorg server configuration utility suggested changes that I made.. but it only changed the environment resolution (screen was... and IS still very small, and I'm scrolling around everywhere).

I saw someone posted an xorg.conf section with "generic monitor" and settings... would I need something like that?

I'm almost 100% certain it is a monitor problem and not a graphics driver problem.

---

### Post by Gizenshya on 2009-02-22
```
Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-51
VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

```

I think this is something like I may have to add...

another candidate...

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    DisplaySize     1280 1024
EndSection
```

atm mine says:

```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection
```

But, the only thing I'm worried about is the "options" and HorizSync and VertRefresh settings.  what should they be for my monitor?  or do those settings generally work?  and idea what would happen if the refresh rates and whatnot aren't set correctly?  How do I find out what they should be (in general, or based on what my windows settings are)?

which parts of the above 2 should I add?

---

### Post by Gizenshya on 2009-02-23
ok, I found the refresh rate from a spec sheet on the monitor and input that, and the rest set itself.

Due to the number of people who seem to be having this problem (monitor settings not detected, or not detected correctly), I posted a suggestion for ubuntu 9.04  (link below).  just post what you think :)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6780663](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6780663)

---

### Post by razy60 on 2009-02-23
frankwakeman: Cheers for the offer i did win it just waiting for it to arrive, If i do get any problems i will as you politely put it give a wee shout.

Raz

---

### Post by razy60 on 2009-02-26
Shout. struggling to get this to recognize my CRT monitor i get the feeling i may have to invest in a LCD monitor.
Which is best LCD with VGA in, or a LCD with DVI in and use a VGA to DVI converter plug

Raz

---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-02-26
Quite good timing....

Some of the things you'll want to know will be outside my knowledge, but do you have a spec sheet for your monitor or can you find the details on its manufacturors' website?

In what way is the monitor not being recognised?  Do you mean you're not getting the full resolution and things seem similar to what the rest of us here describe before we got things solved?

My monitor is iself an LCD one, but it is so old that it caused as much bother as a CRT one, which I had in any case been told would be more likely to work straight away.  It seems it's more that the fx5200 confuses Ubuntu about what it would otherwise recognise easily.  There'll be a few of us reading, so tell us what you've done so far and what's in the xorg.conf and so on.

Keep calm too, if it needs to be said.  It seems funny now looking back how many times I lost my patience/temper and installed something other than Ubuntu (or rather its derivative Linux Mint, now) before I solved the monitor/driver problems.  I'll look in a couple of times tonight and tomorrow, and will humbly bow before anyone more technical than me that butts in!

I would think though that monitors are similar enough that the settings don't vary wildly and someone with a screen your size and sold in the same country would have the figures for you.  Also, are you able to download and burn an iso of OpenSuse or Mandriva 2009 to inspect the xorg.conf that works for that?  They aren't as user friendly but sadly they are better equipped it seems with things like the video cards - both worked straight away with my equipment but I prefer Ubnutu/Mint in every other respect.

---

### Post by razy60 on 2009-02-27
frankwakeman, Thanks for the reply, sorry i have not been back sooner but i decided to find some sand and stick my head in it for a bit.
I cant post any out put as i uninstalled all the drivers and any thing to do with Nvidia, then pulled my card out. I can however say that x looked like this:
Section "Device"
Identifier "NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
Driver "nv"
BusID "PCI:1:4:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor0"
Identifier "Generic Monitor
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
Depth 1
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 8
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 15
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 16
EndSubSection
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection

I have now decided to have another go. going to try a different pci slot, try and reload the drivers and see what occurs.

My monitor is a Dell branded sony trinitron 19" ultrascan p990 crt.
All i got was a screen resolution 640x480, which is way below what i can achieve, i currently have a screen resolution of 1152x864.

If all else fails i can feel a quick visit to ebay coming on.

Cheers in advance


Raz

Just tried this on my 42" lcd TV, gave me a bunch of options and looked ok, so its as i suspected it dont like CRT.

---

### Post by frankwakeman on 2009-02-27
Going by the various posts I looked through on the way, you'll have the same stuff to sort out if you buy another monitor.  I was half an hour away from buying a different graphics card when I stumbled on my solution, and am glad I made the most of what I had.  Ubuntu has been used so much with old donated equipment in developing countries that your CRT monitor ought to be within its grasp.

How about looking at my xorg.conf from posting #15 and replacing every instance of '1024x768' with '1152x864', but otherwise using the same file.  As Gizenshya said a few posts back 'and the rest set itself' - meaning, provided all the detail's there the technology seems to extract what it needs even if the form varies a little between one xorg.conf file and another.  It'll be a bit of typing for you, but I'm hopeful!  It's just that the xorg.conf you showed didn't really seem to contain the key information.

To repeat the steps in the order that seems to work best with this card:

1. Install the 173 driver through Synaptic.
2. Go in your panel menu to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers and choose to Activate.  Reboot the machine, putting up with a possibly worsened resolution for a few minutes, for the remaining steps...
3. Edit and save the xorg.conf file, pasting in your modified version of the one from posting #15, being sure to overwrite the entries that are currently there that make up the same Sections and not anything else.  I'm assuming that you've learnt the method of editing that file (gksu and so on) from elsewhere.
4. Reboot.

I hope I'm not being naive.  I'd be pleased to hear that it worked.

Otherwise, what I said before about using a xorg.conf that works for OpenSuse 11.1, Mandriva 2009 or Ubuntu 6.06 is still a pretty good idea.  If you can't download one these are available for a lot less than a new monitor on eBay - about £2 in the UK.  If you were in the UK I'd post you one free.  It just involves running one of these live CDs and inspecting the file.  It's just 'sod's law' that these other distros are better equipped.  The ones I list worked without fiddling about, for whatever mysterious reason....

---

### Post by razy60 on 2009-02-27
frankwakeman. Thanks for the help. Going to have a go over the weekend, to see if it will work with my CRT monitor. I know that it will work easily with a LCD monitor as i borrowed one to prove it, plus it works ok on my TV, so i am now determined to get it going on my CRT.

I will let you know the outcome, so keep an eye on this thread.

Raz

---

### Post by razy60 on 2009-03-01
Quick update, been trying this with various other flavours of linux and so far the only one that hasnt been able to recognize the card immediately is 8.10. Even my copy of windows7 which i reinstalled sees it ok,
Going to go for a complete reinstall of 8.10 to see if that forces it to use the card.

Raz

---

### Post by Lake50 on 2009-03-03
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122695](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=122695) 

This is the answer for the problem. Just make sure the scan settings are correct for the monitor before restarting the pc or you may have problems seeing the screen.

---

### Post by razy60 on 2009-03-03
Lake50, Cheers for that will give a go when i get the chance.

Raz

---

