---
title: "10.04 : Automount Windows shares issue"
date: 2012-02-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jesrani on 2012-02-27
I am using an Ubuntu 10.04 desktop in a Windows network to backup the windows shares from different machines.
For this purpose I am using this tutorial, [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=637258](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=637258) since the past number of years. Till now it was working okay. The shares are created automatically and then backed up using RSync commands in Cron. A problem only occurred if there was a power failure. In this case when the Ubuntu computer was restarted, the mount point was still available but with 0 items. In this case when the backup ran, everything inside was deleted. The workaround to this was to run the automount restart command before backup and then only the active shares were mounted.

Now my current problem is that the automount command itself is creating 0 items mount points for shares which are not active. This has suddenly happened since last few days. Something must have been updated due to which this error may be coming, I am not sure. I hope someone can help me sort out this issue.

---

### Post by tweedledee on 2012-03-03
> **jesrani said:**
> Now my current problem is that the automount command itself is creating 0 items mount points for shares which are not active. This has suddenly happened since last few days. Something must have been updated due to which this error may be coming, I am not sure. I hope someone can help me sort out this issue.

I have no idea, but I don't think it's related to the script itself.  It sounds like there may have been a samba or similar update that is causing the problem.  I actually converted all my shares to NFS a couple of years ago, although I still use this script (slightly modified for NFS mounts).  You can test whether it is related to the script or not by running the mount commands manually and seeing if an error results.

At one point, I was having problems with shares dropping and automatic backups mass deleting; I believe that was around the time I gave up on samba and went with NFS.  (I'm in an all Linux environment now.)  However, I did find that adding --max-delete=1000 to the rsync command prevented the mass deletes; I exceedingly rarely would run a backup where larger number of files had been deleted, so this threshold serve to prevent the backup from actually deleting anything if the total number to be deleted was larger than that.  The only downside was that when those rare cases occurred, nothing would ever again be deleted from the backup, so it continued to grow in size until I manually ran rsync without the max-delete limit.  Still a major improvement over completely destroying the backup.

---

### Post by frischschlingel on 2012-08-28
> **tweedledee said:**
> I actually converted all my shares to NFS a couple of years ago, although I still use this script (slightly modified for NFS mounts).

Could you pls. post the modifications for NFS mounts? I want to use both (if possible in one process) NFS and CIFS mounts.

---

### Post by tweedledee on 2012-09-06
> **frischschlingel said:**
> Could you pls. post the modifications for NFS mounts? I want to use both (if possible in one process) NFS and CIFS mounts.

I could, but it no longer works with NFS mounts.  At the time of the previous post, I had not updated to the 3.2 kernel.  Something in that kernel (and newer) causes attempts to unmount an NFS share that drops off the network to lock up.  And then unmount attempt hangs forever and causes problems with other processes.  I spent several weeks making various attempts to work around it, but could not find anything that reliably dealt with the problem.  I got tired of hibernation failures due to hung umounts and gave up on NFS - really the same reason I switched away from CIFS.

I have recently started using sshfs instead, but I only have a crude script working - it's complicated by the fact that sshfs is designed to be run as a user rather than root, so the mounting has to be handled somewhat differently.  I haven't had the time to refine it to a general script, and what I'm using now is somewhat buggy (but at least doesn't cause hung processes).

---

