---
title: "DNS takes 10 seconds - 9.10 upgrade"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by svref on 2009-11-03
DNS lookup has been painfully slow since the upgrade to 9.10. DNS lookup at the mac across the office is normal speed. Any clue as to what could be going wrong here?
```
dm@ork:~$ time host ubuntuforums.org
ubuntuforums.org has address 91.189.94.12
***[this is where the delay happens]***
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
ubuntuforums.org mail is handled by 10 mail.ubuntuforums.org.

real	**0m10.149s** **<----- ouch!!!**
user	0m0.004s
sys	0m0.000s
dm@ork:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 72.151.38.81


```

---

### Post by svref on 2009-11-03
Self-reply:
I edited nsswitch.conf, and that eliminated the delay. Time will tell if it breaks something else. Can't recall where I got that advice, but it had something to do with editing the hosts file, and if you google it you can maybe find it from that.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-11-03
> **svref said:**
> Self-reply:
I edited nsswitch.conf, and that eliminated the delay. Time will tell if it breaks something else. Can't recall where I got that advice, but it had something to do with editing the hosts file, and if you google it you can maybe find it from that.

How did you edit the file, what exactly did you change?
Could be interesting for others.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-03
Not sure what you did, but entering your DNS server in network manager achieves the same I think. Just put your router's IP (or your ISP's DNS) there and that dreaded DNS delay goes away as well.

[IMG]http://img692.imageshack.us/img692/6997/screenshot002kr.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by tronshort on 2009-11-04
At last I find somebody who's got the same problem as me ! but you didnt say what you did  in this nsswitch.conf ! Please help !
For me it takes 20 sec !
```

/home/tronshort> time host ubuntuforums.org
ubuntuforums.org has address 91.189.94.12
**[Here it takes 20 sec] <-- here is the delay**
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

real    0m20.089s
user    0m0.010s
sys    0m0.000s

Another example:

/home/tronshort> time host www.google.com
www.google.com has address 209.85.229.103
**[Here it takes 20 sec] <-- here is the delay**
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

real    0m20.023s
user    0m0.020s
sys    0m0.000s

```What should I do with the nsswitch file ? I didnt see anything that looked like a delay inside...
Everything was all right with Ubuntu 9.04, and I got the problem after upgrading to 9.10

---

### Post by Azasello on 2009-11-04
> **P4man said:**
> Not sure what you did, but entering your DNS server in network manager achieves the same I think. Just put your router's IP (or your ISP's DNS) there and that dreaded DNS delay goes away as well.
I'd try that, if the KDE network manager wasn't a useless piece of **** which seems to do absolutely nothing.

Too bad, KDE has degraded from a useful piece of software to a mere tech demo of Qt4, showing what a Qt-based desktop system **could** look like... Yet it's no reason to go right back into the stone age and use Gnome ... I've heard Windows 7 is great.

---

### Post by AgenT on 2009-11-13
I fixed my DNS problem. [Disabling IPv6 for grub 2]("http://www.webupd8.org/2009/11/how-to-disable-ipv6-in-ubuntu-910.html") ([or this for grub 1]("http://www.webupd8.org/2009/05/how-to-disable-ipv6-in-ubuntu-jaunty.html")) fixed it for me!

Don't know whether you have grub 1 or 2? First, check if you have the program update-grub2 and if you do, you have grub 2. If you do not, check if you have the program update-grub and if you do, you have grub 1. If you don't have either, your either 1) not not checking properly or 2) not using grub (very small chance since it's installed by default).

---

