---
title: "HP resolution problems"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by robmyboredom on 2009-05-03
Hey this is my first post on these forums and its regarding a quite annoying resolution problem. Not only am i unable to set my driver at 1400x900 (the option doesnt exist) but whenever the computer turns on again the resolution has changed to 1400x900 but gone off the monitor so in reality its still set at 1152x720, just with two huge black bars on the bottom and right side. Also because the resolution isnt right everything seems to be fuzzier than it should be.
Im still a noob with linux and such so my technical details arent too amazing but i can say this much:
I have an HP a6110n desktop, HP w1907 monitor, the current driver is the NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver version 180 (however 173 and 96 didnt work any better), and pclinuxos using KDE 3.5 was able to achieve 1400x900 off a live cd.
I think for now im going to look into what driver that live cd is using and trying using it in ubuntu.

---

### Post by lamegaptop on 2009-05-03
Some questions for you-

Are you connecting via VGA or DVI? 

I had issues with monitor detection whilst using one of those vga to dvi adapters.

Have you modified your /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?

The new xserver-xorg 1.6 can actually run without one in some cases. You may try renaming it to xorg.conf.backup and give that a go. 

Or enter this in a terminal to generate a default xorg.conf file 

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by robmyboredom on 2009-05-03
> **lamegaptop said:**
> Some questions for you-

Are you connecting via VGA or DVI? 

I had issues with monitor detection whilst using one of those vga to dvi adapters.

Have you modified your /etc/X11/xorg.conf ?

The new xserver-xorg 1.6 can actually run without one in some cases. You may try renaming it to xorg.conf.backup and give that a go. 

Or enter this in a terminal to generate a default xorg.conf file 

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Im connected via VGA on both ends. I tried editing the xorg.conf file however it went back to 1360 by 768 which isnt even the right ratio. what does that command do exactly and should i enter it in the X11 directory? Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by robmyboredom on 2009-05-03
Good news! I removed the extra xorg.conf files leaving behind the one that read 1400 900 and now my resolution is almost that, but still not quite. Im not sure what resolution its actually at right now however it is extremely close to max, it appears that the horizantal one is off a little bit so now everything is squished. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by lamegaptop on 2009-05-04
System > Preferences > Display  will show any displays and their settings. Be sure to click on the one for your monitor, if there are two shown. Mine has 'mirror screens' unchecked and my monitor shows the correct 1440x900 (16:10) resolution with a 60Hz refresh rate.

The command in my last post can be entered in the terminal, no need to 'cd' anywhere. It will generate the default xorg.conf file. As I said, the new xserver 1.6 does a good job autodetecting your video driver and monitor resolution. It can do this with nothing specified in xorg.conf.

This is what mine looks like and is, in fact, the default generated by the command.

Check the comments noted by a '#' -

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```Two other thoughts -
1. I am on a fresh install of Jaunty. If you updated from an earlier release then you may still have the old config file. Try the dpkg-reconfigure.

2. I have been assuming that your nVidia driver is properly installed. You might have a peek at System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

---

### Post by robmyboredom on 2009-05-04
I am also using a fresh install of 64 bit 9.04 and my drivers claim to be installed correctly. I tried using your xorg.conf code, and an automatically generated one as well however neither worked. My code looks like this (but remember that its not what im getting although it is the closest):
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    Option    "AddARGBGLXVisuals"    "True"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual    1400 900
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection 
```Did i miss something? The old code read 1360 768 however that is all i changed. Thanks again!

---

### Post by lamegaptop on 2009-05-06
Well I am at a loss. Perhaps someone else with a fresh idea will happen on this thread.

You did restart X or your pc after each change to xorg.conf, correct?8-[

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-05-06
Normally, resolution problems are caused by one of the monitor, the graphics card, or the graphics driver not passing the EDID information to X that lets it automatically set the correct refresh rate, and so it defaults to really low values that won't damage any monitors. You can manually set the values for your monitor by putting the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges in your xorg.conf. You should be able to get these numbers from the manual or specifications for your monitor. These values go in the "Monitor" Section of xorg.conf.

You can edit xorg.conf with ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``````
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       aa-bb
        VertRefresh     cc-dd
EndSection

```You'll need to replace aa-dd with the values for **your** monitor.

A cursory Google suggests that the ranges for the HP W1907 are HorizSync: 30-83 VertRefresh: 55-75.

---

### Post by robmyboredom on 2009-05-10
Thanks for the insight CatKiller ill have to fiddle around with that. The suggested settings didnt cure anything but i think i can mark this thread as solved because any problems with the resolution are barely even noticeable at this point. Some distorted circles and other messed up lettering but nothing seriously annoying.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-05-10
> **robmyboredom said:**
> The suggested settings didnt cure anything

Well, it's not like I looked at the manual :)

The other thing to bear in mind is that some monitors actually give out incorrect EDID values rather than none at all. Mine does this. The erroneous numbers mean that even if I give the correct refresh rate ranges, some of the other values mean that the modes I want still get discarded. The solution I use is to put 

```
        Option          "UseEDID"                       "False"
```

in the "Device" Section. That means that X ignores the clock rate and DPI information too. If you want to see why a particular mode is being discarded, the log for X is at /var/log/Xorg.0.log. That might point you in the right direction.

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2009-05-10
As a side not you mention the monitor being slightly off, this is probably due to the monitor.
WHen you connect an LCD up to a PC via VGA its still an analogue signal and so the monitor has to sync with the input signal. Press the auto adjust button and it should sync correctly to the VGA signal. If its blurry then increase the refresh rate, most LCDs like 60 - 75 Hz.

---

