---
title: "Lost support for 1680x1050"
date: 2009-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nlakes on 2009-05-31
Hi everyone, 

I've lost support for 1680x1050 resolution on Ubuntu 9.04. I've googled around but found the information useless, as I cannot apply it to my case. Could someone give me a walk-through on how to get back support for my 1680x1050 monitor when I plug it into my laptop, thanks everyone.  

ps. other sites had people post /etc/x11/xorg.conf
Here is what mine says: 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	1280 1280
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

---

### Post by bacardiandwatermelon on 2009-05-31
This may help...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1142948&highlight=xorg.conf](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1142948&highlight=xorg.conf)

---

