---
title: "11.04 Rocks but problems with video playback"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alibro on 2011-05-02
I installed Ubuntu 11.04 today and all was working well, after an hour or so getting used to it I started to really like it then I ran into a problem. 
I tried playing a video and was prompted to install plugins which worked fine, the plugins installed and all was good. I then installed Open Shot, Lame and Restricted extras and now when I try to open a video (WMV, AVI, FLV etc) all I get is a prompt to search for suitable Plugin. When I click on search another prompt tells me No packages with the requested plugins were found followed by the name of the requested plugin. ie DivX MPEG-4 Version 5 decoder or Windows Media Video 9 decoder etc.

I already reinstalled 11.04 from scratch a second time as I had the same problem yesterday but thought it was something I had done. I never had an issue like this before and been using Ubuntu for years.

Strange thing is VLC will play them but not Totem nor can Pitivi open videos for me to edit.

Note Problem is not just on Unity but also on Classic, and I just realised I can't play WMV sound files but MP3's play fine, Weird or what!

---

### Post by cipherboy_loc on 2011-05-02
What is the output of this command:
```

dpkg --list | grep -i 'gstreamer[0-9\.]\{1,\}-plugins'

```

I assume you are trying to play it in Totem (Movie Player)? On my install I have the following:

```

ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad                    0.10.21-1ubuntu11                                 GStreamer plugins from the "bad" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse         0.10.21-1                                         GStreamer plugins from the "bad" set (Multiverse Variant)
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-base                   0.10.32-1ubuntu5                                  GStreamer plugins from the "base" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-base-apps              0.10.32-1ubuntu5                                  GStreamer helper programs from the "base" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-good                   0.10.28-0ubuntu7                                  GStreamer plugins from the "good" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly                   0.10.17-1ubuntu2                                  GStreamer plugins from the "ugly" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse        0.10.17-1                                         GStreamer plugins from the "ugly" set (Multiverse Variant)

```

Where the text just after the ii (gstreamer0.10-plugins*) is the name of the software. Compare your list with mine and install any that are missing (sudo apt-get install gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse, etc).


Cipherboy

---

### Post by alibro on 2011-05-03
Hi, thanks for your reply.
I did as you said but I can't see any difference in them, this is the output I got. The strange thing is this only happened after I installed restricted extras. Before then I tried playing a video (can't remember what format) and was prompted to install stuff which worked. Of course uninstalling restricted extras hasn't helped.
The thumbnails below show the error messages I get when trying to open an AVI file and an FLV file, and almost any other type of video file. 
I am running 32bit Ubuntu on AMD Processor with Nvidia Graphics. I had no problems installing and configuring the Nvidia card for dual head monitors.

Note Just tried some sound files and have the same problem with WMV files but MP3 files play fine.

ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad             0.10.21-1ubuntu11                          GStreamer plugins from the "bad" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse  0.10.21-1                                  GStreamer plugins from the "bad" set (Multiverse Variant)
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-base            0.10.32-1ubuntu5                           GStreamer plugins from the "base" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-base-apps       0.10.32-1ubuntu5                           GStreamer helper programs from the "base" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-good            0.10.28-0ubuntu7                           GStreamer plugins from the "good" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly            0.10.17-1ubuntu2                           GStreamer plugins from the "ugly" set
ii  gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse 0.10.17-1                                  GStreamer plugins from the "ugly" set (Multiverse Variant)

---

### Post by alibro on 2011-05-06
Solved (mostly)

I think I have this one sorted (mostly)
I uninstalled everything to do with GSTREAMER, restricted extras and Movie Player, rebooted, reinstalled Movie player and tried a WMV video file. I got the same message about needing codecs but this time it asked for GSTREAMER codecs. I cancelled the request, reinstalled Restricted extras and the GSTREAMER stuff and now it works again. Only issue I have now is the Thumbnails refuse to show properly.

Any suggestions how to reset Gstreamer for Nautilus so that the thumbnails show up. I already checked the Preview Preferences and they are all ok.

Cheers

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-05-06
I believe (never paid much attention to), that possibly totem provides the thumbnails by default
So ck and make sure it's installed
If not already then install, either way after checking/installing then open your home folder (view > show hidden files) 
Find the .thumbnails folder, open it up  and delete the fail folder or open it up > thumbnail factory and delete all the files inside

Then ck. your vids again (don't think a log out/in is needed

(there may be a way to switch the video thumbnailer  if not wanting totem installed

---

### Post by alibro on 2011-05-07
Awesome

Did as you suggested and all thumbnails came up immediately. Thank you so much.

This issue is now SOLVED :D

---

