---
title: "10.10 Newbie help required please. Continuous Crashing"
date: 2010-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by p102 on 2010-12-30
I recently had my laptop which ran windows xp, wiped and ubuntu installed in its place. I was told of all the grand benefits of ubuntu so I thought yeesss. Everything was running beautifully, everything was heavenly, until i encountered "a flash website :wink:". This was strange because youtube worked fine.

Anyway ever since I encountered that site Ubuntu crashes on startup. I log in then crash. Its strange because sometimes it takes a while to crash e.g. when trying to open any application, or sometimes its instant.

Would somebody be kind enough to please explain to me....

1. How i diagnose this problem so it can be fixed, remember it may have to be before the log in.
2. Is there someway I can do a system restore to its original settings or something?

Please note I am very new to ubuntu and computers.  Any help would be greatly appreciated. thanks!

---

### Post by Paul41 on 2010-12-30
I haven't seen this problem before so I'm not sure if it will help, but you could try to remove flash, then reinstall it later to see if it is what is causing your problem.

```
sudo apt-get remove flashplugin-nonfree
```

If you can't get logged in try to boot into recovery mode from the grub menu on start up and remove it from there.

On more question would be did you get any updates or install anything new right before the problem started?

---

### Post by p102 on 2010-12-30
Thanks for that.
I didn't even know what grub was but I do now and will try what you recommended. as for your question nope, its really strange, I did not install anything new at all. Plus I cannot be sure if flash is the problem because YouTube worked perfectly.

Is there a way to do like a system restore or something? or even better is there a way to diagnose the problem? Will a system restore (ifs that's possible) even help/work?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-01-01
> **p102 said:**
> I did not install anything new at all

Then wouldn't it be best just to reinstall rather than thinking of restoring?

---

