---
title: "firefox poor printing quality"
date: 2012-01-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by micg on 2012-01-23
hi,
I get a very poor printing quality from firefox on ubuntu 11.10 with a brother printer dcp 7025 when I use the default resolution 600x600 dpi. The printout looks like a matrix printer from the 80s...
This occurs only when printing from firefox or printing a firefox-generated PDF. Other applications' printout (LibreOffice, Thunderbird, PDF unless generated by firefox,...) is fine.
When I change the printer resolution to 300dpi, the matrix effect is gone, but 300 dpi is not acceptable for graphics.

any ideas?

thanks!
Michael

---

### Post by chaarmann on 2012-05-20
Is the driver in Dash --> "Printing" something like "Make and Model"= "foo..."? Try to change it to other options given there.

I had the same issue with my HP-printer. I had only one option there but new options appeared after installing HPLIP (propietary driver).  
See thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11950299#post11950299](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11950299#post11950299)

Maybe there is something equivalent like HPLIP-Toolbox for brother printers, too. I mean some software that detects your printer model and  automatically downloads the proprietary driver from Internet.

---

### Post by micg on 2012-05-23
Thanks chaarmann,
my problem has been solved by installing the "original" proprietary brother driver.

---

### Post by mekanix on 2012-08-15
I had the same issue with a Brother MFC-9320CW. 

When ever there were an image on a page it would print the page as an old dot-matrix-printer, but another page (eg. page 2 of the same printout) would print fine if there weren't any images on that.

The solution was the same - I downloaded the LPR-driver and CUPS-wrapper from here: <http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/download_prn.html#MFC-9320CW> and followed the instructions from here <http://welcome.solutions.brother.com/bsc/public_s/id/linux/en/instruction_prn1a.html>.

Now it looks like it works.

---

