---
title: "Low resolution with nvidia driver"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by orlox on 2008-04-26
Hi! I've been trying hardy on my sisters pc, but haven't been able to configure the resolution correctly. Here's my xorg.conf:

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"	"CoreKeyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
EndSection


```

With this, I can only get to 600x400 resolution. Similar xorg with nv driver gets me 800x600 resolution.

But I know this monitor can get to 1024x768 resolution (I used it like that with ubuntu feisty). Any help??

---

### Post by orlox on 2008-04-26
By the way, also tried with vesa to no avail, got only 800x600...:(

---

### Post by MDSmith2 on 2008-04-26
Try envy.```
sudo apt-get install envy

```It help me in this situation and it turned out the driver was the problem.

---

### Post by orlox on 2008-04-26
> Try envy.

Tried, but the same thing happened. It would be enough in any case to setup the resolution correctly with the nv driver, or the vesa (but I prefer by far to use the nvidia driver so I can use desktop effects)

---

### Post by littletinman on 2008-04-26
I'm having the same problem. the envy thing didn't change anything.

---

### Post by MDSmith2 on 2008-04-26
What nvidia card is it? (Your xorg.conf doesn't say.)

---

### Post by orlox on 2008-04-26
I have a geForce 6200...

---

### Post by orlox on 2008-04-26
Found the solution (I'm pointing it out but maybe the names are somewhat different cause my ubuntu is in spanish)

First, I go to System->preferences->main menu

There, under others, i add screens and graphics.

Then, form the main menu I acces screen and graphics and select my monitor and voila!

---

### Post by richardh9936 on 2008-04-27
Yes, this is the best way around the problem.  I don't know why every change I made to xorg.conf was somehow over-ridden by Ubuntu when next I started it.  My Nvidia driver was ok; but nothing knows about my 2003 NEC Multisync FP2141sb monitor.

Could we make this solution more prominent to other people with xorg.conf issues?

---

### Post by MDSmith2 on 2008-04-27
> **orlox said:**
> Found the solution (I'm pointing it out but maybe the names are somewhat different cause my ubuntu is in spanish)

First, I go to System->preferences->main menu

There, under others, i add screens and graphics.

Then, form the main menu I acces screen and graphics and select my monitor and voila!
Congrats.

---

### Post by richardh9936 on 2008-09-17
I have re-built my pc with Hardy 8.04 LTS, and then used ENVY to install the nvidia driver.  Resolution was very low, probably because my monitor is unusual.  However, the most effective and easiest way to work around that was to use Ubuntu's "Screen and Graphics" tool, but from the x-terminal.

sudo displayconfig-gtk

and specify a generic monitor with my desired resolution and refresh rates.

---

### Post by GlennW on 2008-09-18
I have a NVIDIA GeForce 6200 vid card. I've had a max rez of 800x600 for the past month after an update of some sort. I've not been able to figure it out even after going through more threads than I can count. 

The last thing I've done is the "Screens and Graphics" where one can choose the monitor and graphics card. I set my monitor: Samsung SynMaster 205bw and vid card. I noticed a test button at the bottom and clicked it. After the screen goes black, then to fuzzy grey bars with some dialogue boxes barely visible in the upper corners, it falls back to the 800x600 rez with a message: Configuration test failed - Please verify the selected devices and configuration.

What's with that? My proprietary nVidia drivers are enabled. I'm totally confused. 

Anyone have any suggestions?

---

### Post by GlennW on 2008-09-20
Bump!

---

### Post by GlennW on 2008-09-22
***_bump!_***

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-09-22
You can try adding these two lines the the subsection under "Screen":
> Virtual 1280 1024
Depth 24

Also, in my xorg, under "Screen", my screen resolutions end with the refresh rate:
```
Modes "1024x768@75" "1024x768@60" "800x600@75"  "800x600@60
```...etcetera

---

### Post by GlennW on 2008-09-23
> **dodle said:**
> You can try adding these two lines the the subsection under "Screen":


Also, in my xorg, under "Screen", my screen resolutions end with the refresh rate:
```
Modes "1024x768@75" "1024x768@60" "800x600@75"  "800x600@60
```...etcetera

Thanks for the input. I just checked my xorg and found that every setting you mentioned I already have.

I'm going to scrub my computer later this week and do a fresh install. I'm hoping that will fix the problem.

---

### Post by richardh9936 on 2009-07-05
Some time after this post, I discovered factors affecting resolution.
1. Cable.  The video cable was inducing image ghosting.  Upgrading to a thicker cable fixed that.
2. KVM switch.  The kvm switch prevented the video software from interogating the EDI of the monitor, so it assumed the worst.  Connecting the monitor directly fixed that.
3. nvidia proprietary driver.  When upgrading kernels eg jumping from 8.x to 9.x, ALWAYS use envyng to unload the nvidia driver before upgrading.

---

