---
title: "18.04 - will not recognize dvd"
date: 2020-03-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by frankdn01 on 2020-03-30
Multiple dvd's, including a brand-new blank, and movies that play well on my TV... but no joy on the Lenovo desktop (18.04):

>> su ...
 #regionset /dev/dvd
regionset version 0.1 -- reads/sets region code on DVD drives
ERROR: Could not open disc "/dev/dvd"!
Please ensure there is a readable CD or DVD in the drive.

and:

# lshw -C disk
  *-cdrom                   
       description: DVD-RAM writer
       product: DVD-RW SH-216AB
       vendor: TSSTcorp
       physical id: 0.0.0
       bus info: scsi@1:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom
       logical name: /dev/cdrw
       logical name: /dev/dvd
       logical name: /dev/dvdrw
       logical name: /dev/sr0
       version: LE02
       capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
       configuration: ansiversion=5 status=nodisc

I insert *anything* into the drive, close the tray, device makes 5 attempts to access the dvd and quietly gives up.  Nothing is written to syslog.

Thanks for you thoughts!

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-03-30
Optical devices are usually /dev/sr0, just saying... But this isn't the problem.

> device makes 5 attempts to access the dvd and quietly gives up means that is very likely defective. Try a bootable CD and a bootable DVD to confirm.

---

### Post by crip720 on 2020-03-30
Could be dirt on laser, can try cleaning it, either by cleaning disk or by hand(google), or as chrome likes to say 'it's dead Jim'.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2020-03-30
Have you installed any codecs for playing movies ?

---

