---
title: "Applications Menu, problems modifying it, help needed (19.10, LXQt)"
date: 2020-02-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-02-12
The Applications Menu (lower left corner) can be changed by modifying:


[LIST]
[*]**/usr/share/applications** by removing (or adding) .desktop files
[/LIST]

This works globally on my system, no issues.

_But how do I modify the Applications Menu for individual users?_

According to the LXQt Wiki, this is done by copying the applications directory and contents to:


[LIST]
[*]**~/.local/share/applications**
[/LIST]
So far OK, the local directory is there with contents.
I've made certain that the permissions of all files/dirs are preserved, and the user:group ownerships are changed to the local user (a first test with ownership root:root failed). 

But it doesn't work. The global menu settings override the local ones.

I have two suspicions:
[LIST]
[*]There is a problem with sequencing: the global directory is found first, and the local files are ignored.
[*]I've overlooked a configuration file somewhere, though I don't know where
[/LIST]

**Can someone please help, or does someone have an idea?**

Thank You.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-02-12
It doesn't work quite how you think it works. The menus are generated by indexing the places where the desktop files are, using the information in the menu files for the "directory" listings. If an entry is in more than one place, the one in the user's home directory takes priority.

When you deleted the files from /usr/share/applications, you removed the only entry, so it stopped being displayed. When you deleted the files from the user's home directory, there was still an entry in /usr/share/applications, so it was still displayed. 

There's a Hidden attribute within the desktop file itself (they're just text files) that determines whether a menu entry will be displayed or not. You want the file to exist in the user's home directory with the Hidden attribute set if you want it to not display for that user. 

There's a specification for it all on freedesktop if you're interested in the nitty-gritty.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-02-12
Dear CatKiller, 

You nailed it 100%.
I've now tested/modified the Application Menu in several user accounts, and it works. The problem is not that the "hidden" command is hidden, but that it just isn't there.
The command line in a .desktop file is: **NoDisplay=true** to hide an entry.
But apparently default is NoDisplay=false so most .desktop files don't even contain this line.
Nasty...

Thank You, Thank You.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-02-12
Glad to hear you got it sorted. Sorry about the bum steer with the field name: it's been a while since I fiddled with those files.

Don't forget to mark the thread as "Solved" (an option under Thread Tools) to help someone else with the same problem to find a solution that works.

---

