---
title: "12.04 List view in alt-tab application switcher"
date: 2012-07-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Pil85 on 2012-07-02
I am wondering if there is a functionality in Ubuntu 12.04 that allows you to replace the default view while using alt+tab. 

Currently it will display the icon of various applications, and then expand into a set of thumbnails while holding over one application for a while (or using alt+|/alt+~). However, these thumbnails are too small to have any practical use for me, and what I want is to replace this sub-menu of thumbnails with a list of the files opened in that application.

To be very precise, I am using emacs with several windows (frames) for the various files I'm working on, and would want a list of my opened files instead of the thumbnails, so that I can tell them apart more easily.

---

### Post by Pil85 on 2012-07-03
I still haven't found a solution to this. Any tips?
The only thing I need is to replace the thumbnails with filenames.

---

### Post by Pil85 on 2012-07-03
A small update on the progress:
Figured I could try changing the name displayed by emacs to display the buffer/filename. In case others are wondering, I did this by adding this line:
(setq frame-title-format '(buffer-file-name "%f" ("%b")))
to ~/.emacs
This will show the file name loaded in each specific instance of emacs when you flip through them in the sub-menu of alt-tab.

It would be great with a drop-down list of these filenames once you get to the submenu, with the possibility to tab trough the list (or use alt+button_over_tab), but I guess that is more tricky. If anyone has any ideas they are very welcome to share them, but this solution solves my main issue of identification of the windows at least :)

---

### Post by Pil85 on 2012-07-09
Trying one last bump, for information about a list-view instead of thumbnails.

---

