---
title: "Nvidia Display Problem"
date: 2007-09-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bij33 on 2007-09-28
Hi all,

Is there anything need to be changed within the following xorg.conf file in order to output a 60 Hz Refresh Rate? I have a NVIDIA Quadro FX 1400 graphics card which outputs a correct resolution of (1280x1024) but Refresh Rate is incorrectly set to 50 Hz. Ubuntu "Screen Resolution" doesn't even show 60 Hz, only 50 and 52 are being offered.

Thanks for your support.

Here is a copy of xorg.conf file.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder3) Thu Nov 9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
RgbPath "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "dbe"
Load "extmod"
Load "type1"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
Option "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
# HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "DELL 1900FP"
HorizSync 30.0 - 80.0
VertRefresh 56.0 - 76.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Videocard0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "Quadro FX 1400"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "metamodes" "1280x1024_60 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by MrHippocampus on 2007-09-28
The behaviour your describing is normal, although it says 50Hz/52Hz it will actually be running at a different refresh rate. If you run "nvidia-settings" you can see/set the real refresh rate of the screen, ignore what any other programs say as the nvidia driver doesn't report the correct values to them.

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2007-09-28
> **MrHippocampus said:**
> The behaviour your describing is normal, although it says 50Hz/52Hz it will actually be running at a different refresh rate. If you run "nvidia-settings" you can see/set the real refresh rate of the screen, ignore what any other programs say as the nvidia driver doesn't report the correct values to them.

The NVIDIA control panel will set the refresh rate, but Ive found that it doesnt remember the settings. For me at least, I would have to change the refresh rate after every boot. It didnt seem that the save to x config option really worked. Best bet is to manually edit the Xorg to a specific rate versus the variables listed...

Good luck!

---

### Post by dabl on 2007-09-28
You need to run the nvidia-settings utility as Super User, one time, and save the settings so they become the default. (regular user does not have "write" privilege to /etc/X11/xorg.conf).

So in a console window ```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

Click the "X Server Configuration" tab, click "detect displays", set the resolution and refresh rates (I leave refresh on "Auto" for my 7900GS), then click the "Save to X Configuration File" button in the lower right, "x" "merge", click "save" and you're done.

Re-start the xserver with Ctrl-Alt-Backspace, and log in, and you should get your desired resolution and refresh rate by default.

:guitar:

---

### Post by bij33 on 2007-09-28
[SOLVED] Thanks guys, I disabled the Nvidia driver usage completely and also renamed xorg.conf to something else (any name) that Ubuntu can not find the file during booting.  Ubuntu sets the numbers automatically and the screen resolution and refresh rate are now both correct. FYI, the display is much nicer than before and all works great. For now ignoring Nvidia driver till there is a fix out.

---

