---
title: "12.10 blank screen on boot, doesnt load gui after update"
date: 2013-01-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iScrtAznMan on 2013-01-30
Sorry guys i'm on my phone an super frustrated so bare with me. My laptop is a samsung rf411. It has nvidia optimus and an intel i7. 

Yesterday I think there were some updates that I installed and didnt think mcuh of them and I didnt reboot my machine. Today after class however, i think it died while in my bag and didnt sleep or hibernate and just ran with the lid closed. When I got back home, I had to turn it on and after booting the ubuntu loading screen flashes and then changes back to a blank screen with a cursor. Luckily I can charge my phone and it can detect a device in the usb as it displays that on a new line. I ca ctr-alt-f2 and loggin but as to trying to get it to boot the gui, i'm lost. I tried changing the bootloader where it says splash quite to nomodeset (although all the places i read this said to do it with quiet splash). Either I did this wrong or it has nothing to do with drivers or an updated kernel. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by iScrtAznMan on 2013-01-30
Okay, somehow I was able to get xwindows working again. After realizing I was changing the GNU Grub to nomodeset incorrectly, I switched it and tried to boot. It left me at a blank screen. . . so I let it sit for a bit then did an alt-prtsc REISUB and the second time going through, the ubuntu studio's boot screen showed up and then went blank. Thought it was doomed and then the purple screen appeared, along with the log in window and my background loaded. I'm just afraid to shutdown and still not sure what happened.

---

