---
title: "startup script + add load module"
date: 2009-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by whitethorn on 2009-05-06
Hi,

I've been trying to figure this out, unfortunately I can't get any further.  I have a new computer, at the moment I'm trying to figure out how to get my fans running quiter.  I've figured out how to use lm-sensors and I've created the profile I want to use.  Whenever I reboot my computer though, everything I did stops working.  To get the reading on my sensor I need to use this code

```
sudo modprobe w83627ehf force_id=0x8860
```

How would I get this loaded?

Next I need to run a file called /etc/fancontrol.  Which is the configuration file.  

```
# Configuration file generated by pwmconfig, changes will be lost
INTERVAL=10
FCTEMPS= hwmon4/device/pwm1=hwmon0/device/temp1_input
FCFANS= hwmon4/device/pwm1=hwmon4/device/fan1_input
MINTEMP= hwmon4/device/pwm1=45
MAXTEMP= hwmon4/device/pwm1=60
MINSTART= hwmon4/device/pwm1=90
MINSTOP= hwmon4/device/pwm1=60
MINPWM= hwmon4/device/pwm1=60
MAXPWM=hwmon4/device/pwm1=255

```

If anyone has any ideas, or a link to some howtos that would be great.

---

### Post by anti_microsoft on 2009-05-06
Might just check into running it from the sessions manager system>prefrences>sessions.

I have stuff starting with my system using that. I suppose you could direct it to start a script, I don't see why not.

(of course will launch after the desktop starts)

---

### Post by adult swim on 2009-05-06
to add the module run ```
gksu gedit /etc/modules
```add a line that says ```
w83627ehf force_id=0x8860
``` then save and close the file.  

looking back at this the last part should be disregarded.  if you followd the /etc/init.d stuff, let me know and we will take that back out.

aside from that, what are you doing with /etc/fancontrol?

---

### Post by whitethorn on 2009-05-07
> **adult swim said:**
> to add the module run ```
gksu gedit /etc/modules
```add a line that says ```
w83627ehf force_id=0x8860
``` then save and close the file.  

looking back at this the last part should be disregarded.  if you followd the /etc/init.d stuff, let me know and we will take that back out.

aside from that, what are you doing with /etc/fancontrol?

So I added the module, rebooted it works so that's awesome.  I did try using the rcupdate-rc-d  thingy, but since that didn't work I also removed the entries.  Now I have a different problem, after rebooting fancontrol doesn't work on my fans.  I'm going to start a new thread about this.  This one has been solved thank you

---

