---
title: "9.04 startup crash"
date: 2009-06-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by goostmaster on 2009-06-21
I recently installed Ubuntu 9.04 onto my Dell dimension b110 desktop. I was trying to install a driver for my intel 82865G graphics controller using instructions from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75378&highlight=ATI+Rage+128+PRO](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75378&highlight=ATI+Rage+128+PRO). Yes, I do realize that is instructions for ATI not intel, but I figured its the same principle because I am a noob and know next to nothing about computers.

Onto the problem: I opened up the terminal and entered 


```
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
```

While that was installing I realized my mistake, that I put install when I should have put "remove." So I closed the terminal, killing the process, and opened up a new terminal. I typed in the correct code and it told me that it was unable to complete the process, as it did not have sufficient access (or something like that.) I found that odd, as I was attempting to do this as the superuser. I tried a few more times, gave up, and gave the computer a good reboot.

The computer started up nicely, and Linux began to startup when bars of random colours flashed on my monitor, before it displayed a frozen screen of pure wonkiness (no I cannot be more specific than that.)

That's my problem, if anybody knows what the deuce is going on, please help me.

---

### Post by quixote on 2009-06-22
I'm pretty sure I know what the problem is, but I don't know the solution, so that doesn't help you very much.  What I would do if I blew up my video driver is search Goog for "Ubuntu 9.04 82865G install driver" (no quotes) and maybe there'll be some pointers to which file you need for reinstallation and how to do it.  For instance, [this post]("http://kwlug.org/node/651") I found after that search seems like it might be relevant.  I see in the search that there's quite a few bug reports filed for that combination, so maybe not all the problems are your fault.  :)

---

