---
title: "16.04.1 only sometimes wakes from suspend"
date: 2016-09-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by yup746 on 2016-09-18
Hi. I've very recently installed Ubuntu (for the first time on this laptop). I've completely removed Windows, since I had good experiences with Ubuntu so far. 

Now after I installed it and I tried to suspend it by closing the lid, it won't wake up again (sometimes it will, but I haven't figured out how that works). If the laptop will wake up again (and is therefor suspended properly), the laptop will not make a sound anymore and the blue light that would indicate the laptop being awake is flickering orange. HOWEVER, if the laptop is not suspended properly, it will still make noise (fans?) and the light will remain blue. In this case, when I open the lid, the screen will stay black whatever I do and my only option is to reboot by using the power button.

I've tested what happens if I close the lid, before I first log in. Usually it works fine the first time, but after that, when I close the lid before mentioned symptoms will occur. However when I open the lid again, the screen will instantly turn back on without me pushing any buttons or anything.

I've been looking on the internet for hours, trying solutions, but nothing worked. I've tried 3 different kernalupdates, tuxonice in combination with uswsusp (which only made me not able to boot at all), etc.

My Ubuntu version is mentioned in the title and my kernel version at the moment is 4.6.0-040600-generic. The laptop I'm using is an Acer Travelmate P276.

I hope I have made anything clear that I can, please ask me for any information (with an easy to follow explanation of how to find it) you still need to help me out of this mess.

---

