---
title: "how to make a network drive"
date: 2008-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thebozenator on 2008-10-21
I have a spare 60gb hard drive in my Ubuntu machine. I want to set it up so that i may open and save files to it from any computer on my network (includes Windows computers) preferably without a password or any complications. Anyone know how i can do this? the hard drive is unformatted, should it be NTFS?

---

### Post by Monotoko on 2008-10-21
This program should help you:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SettingUpSamba](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SettingUpSamba)

There are two main ways to administer samba:
1) edit the config files by hand (not that difficult)
2) use Swat (a web based configurator): [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Swat](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Swat)

---

### Post by thebozenator on 2008-10-21
wouldnt that share the whole computer? I want the separate hard drive to show up as a different network place.

---

### Post by bab1 on 2008-10-21
It depends on what you mean by:> wouldnt that share the whole computer? 
Samba is the process running on the computer.  You are then able to  share by directory.   For example you can share /media/music and that is all that should be all the users will see.

Edit: You should format the drive as ext3.  The file system is relevant to the local host, not the user that is on the remote machine.

---

### Post by thebozenator on 2008-10-21
sorry, i don't know much about samba. can anyone post how to add specific folders to share using samba? (noob question) also i have a dual boot so i think i'll use NTFS so that i can also access it from my windows partition.

---

### Post by amauk on 2008-10-21
under nautilus, right click folder -> sharing options

---

### Post by thebozenator on 2008-10-21
i actualy tried that but get this error:

'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare add: cannot share path /media/disk as we are restricted to only sharing directories we own.
	Ask the administrator to add the line "usershare owner only = False" 
	to the [global] section of the smb.conf to allow this.

whats the path for smb.conf so i can add that?
I found one but it was blank so i guess it was the wrong file...

---

### Post by sea_monkey987 on 2008-10-21
it is located at /etc/samba/smb.conf

---

### Post by bab1 on 2008-10-21
/etc/samba/smb.conf

EDIT: Not all config is done in this file if you are using Nautilus.  See /var/lib/samba for the config files generated by using the GUI.

---

### Post by thebozenator on 2008-10-21
i was able to change the file and made the folders shareable (real word?). Now, however, no files are showing up on the network, not even my desktop (which used to show up)

---

### Post by thebozenator on 2008-10-25
anyone got any ideas?

---

### Post by j1111c on 2008-10-25
I use a external harddrive (a case is about 40 dollars), Format it for fat 32 and can be used from windows or linux.
j1111c

---

