---
title: "7.04 not working on Thinkpad T42"
date: 2007-06-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aggie_wes on 2007-06-10
I just got a thinkpad t42, and I can't get ubuntu to boot after the install.  The live cd boots fine, install goes fine, and then when i try to boot into ubuntu, the loading bar does not move at all for a few minutes, and then i get taken to a bash prompt.

the laptop is the 2378-FVU variety, if that matters. 

is there something that i need to add to the boot line in grub to get it to work?  sorry i don't have more information on what the hangup is, and i'm not really sure how to get more info.  any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Ergo on 2007-06-11
Sounds like you have a gui problem.  At the command prompt type :

sudo init 5

It will prompt you for a password.  If there are any problems with your gui interface, it will give you verbose information about what caused it to fail.  (Could be nothing more than a resolution problem or a video driver problem.)

Other folks might have better information to give you, but the above is something you can do and see results without alot of hassle or trying to understand how the boot process works.  If it fails, post some of the result here.  If it doesn't fail, you should see a graphical login screen.

Good Luck.

---

### Post by aggie_wes on 2007-06-11
i push alt-f1 to get past the splash screen and it says

starting up ...
loading, please wait...

then it sits for a few minutes

then:
 check root = boot arg cat /proc/cmdline
or missing modules, devices: cat /proc/modules ls /dev
ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/f5e56981-8158-494f-9236-2561791bf0b1 does not exist.
dropping to a shell!

BusyBox v1.1.3 (Debian 1:1.1.3-3ubuntu3) Built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

/bin/sh: can't access tty; job control turned off
(initramfs) 

then a blinking cursor

---

### Post by aggie_wes on 2007-06-11
so apparently it can't find my harddrive, is this right?

when i boot into recovery mode, the same thing happens.  same error message

---

### Post by stubee on 2007-06-12
I'm having the same error, but on a homebrew PC system...after installing ubuntu on the second partition of my secondary drive.

After googling around, so far it seems like a bug in Ubuntu 7.04 and how they changed IDE driver implementation....something about using scsi drivers. (it's beyond me).  People report success with Ubuntu 6.10, but something got screwed up in 7.04 for those of us with older chipsets.  (such as SIS)

No fix yet that I can find.

---

### Post by aggie_wes on 2007-06-17
where should i look for a fix?

---

### Post by aggie_wes on 2007-07-29
ttt

---

### Post by aggie_wes on 2008-01-02
still doesn't work in 7.10

---

### Post by sc30317 on 2008-01-02
thinkwiki.org

its down now, but when it goes back up, it has a myriad of options and will def. help you install ubuntu

---

