---
title: "Bad video quality in UBUNTU/KUBUNTU"
date: 2006-01-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Strike&gt;&gt; on 2006-01-01
When i play movies with any media players in windows, the quality is better than linux. I have searched the net but no solution. It looks like the edges are too sharp(in a bad way) and are noticeable. i think it might do with anti aliasing, but not sure. let's say it's like playing a game under 800*600 with no anti aliasing! of course when i make the size of the movie smaller the quality gets better. i also installed the latest ATI driver (9600xt) but no use.


please help me, because i want to watch my movies in linux and not windows.

here is how  my config looks like:
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9600 XT (RV350 AR)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E771a"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync 31-70
	VertRefresh 50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9600 XT (RV350 AR)"
	Monitor		"DELL E771a"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection


EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-01-01
Try different video outputs. For example: install xine-ui and set the video output to xv in the preferences.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2006-01-01
[QUOTE=Strike>>]When i play movies with any media players in windows, the quality is better than linux. I have searched the net but no solution. It looks like the edges are too sharp(in a bad way) and are noticeable. i think it might do with anti aliasing, but not sure. let's say it's like playing a game under 800*600 with no anti aliasing! of course when i make the size of the movie smaller the quality gets better. i also installed the latest ATI driver (9600xt) but no use.
........[/QUOTE]
"Anti aliasing" has nothing to do with graphics content, it is how Ubuntu displays font characters.

Try different media players, and also the previous suggestions.

Also ensure - if you have an LCD monitor - that you are running in the native resolution of the display.

---

### Post by Strike&gt;&gt; on 2006-01-01
Thanks for the replies.

i tried opening it with X-ine, and it looked better i think. couldn't really tell because it was lagging like crazy. i am using a CRT monitor. i also used vlc, totem, kaffeine, and mplayer all being the same.

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-01-01
mplayer handles videos well for me at least. Open a file in that and try different video outputs like xv, x11, opengl.

---

### Post by Strike&gt;&gt; on 2006-01-02
i used xv, and it gave me an error for some reason. x11, when i maximize the player the screen just gets larger but the actual size of the movie stays small. i used opengl and it was lagging,  however i could maximize it.

---

### Post by mrsad on 2006-01-02
can't really complain about the video quality, are you sure you are playing the videos at their right sizes?

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-01-02
Ha! You have the fglrx driver! Missed that. Change this
```

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9600 XT (RV350 AR)"
Driver "fglrx"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"

EndSection
```
to this
```

Section "Device"
Identifier "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9600 XT (RV350 AR)"
Driver "fglrx"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
Option "VideoOverlay" "on"
Option "OpenGLOverlay" "off"

EndSection
```
The fglrx driver is blocking xv by default (at least for me), which is why you got the error. Do the changes above, restart X with crtl+alt+backspace and try to view a movie with the xv video-out.

---

### Post by Strike&gt;&gt; on 2006-01-02
THANK YOU very much. now i can watch my gundam in linux. you are a hero!

---

