---
title: "Screen Size"
date: 2007-09-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by psychicpanda on 2007-09-26
Hi, I'm new to using Ubuntu, I'm quite familiar with Windows XP, but my friend convinced me to try Ubuntu, as it supposedly lets you change anything to do with your computer, anyway, what I was wondering, is it possible to change the horizontal/vertical size of your LCD in Ubuntu, maybe through a batch file or something (if they exist in Ubuntu).  My LCD screen does not actually have an option to change the horizontal/vertical size, but he said anything is possible in Ubuntu basically.  What I would really like, is to have a 1024 x 768 screen size, with proper 4:3 aspect ratio, rather then it stretching the resolution to fill up my entire wide screen, so basically you would be simulating a 17 inch CRT display size, or something on a 22 inch LCD.
Thanks
PS: I'm really looking forward to actually being able to play Baldur's Gate and Baldur's Gate 2 on decent resolutions, i.e. not completely flat looking because it's filling up the whole wide screen.
Thanks again
-Stacey

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2007-09-26
If I understand you correctly, you want nice black bars at the side of your screen so your aspect ratio is 4:3? If so, why did you buy a widescreen monitor?

Or is the problem that it currently looks stretched as the system is configured for the wrong resolution?

When replying, please post make and model of video card. Also gives us the specs of the monitor (resolutions and refresh rates) or make and model.
Further post sections *ServerLayout*, *Device*, *Monitor* and *Screen* of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by psychicpanda on 2007-09-26
Point One: I don't have a clue what that means lol \/
"Further post sections ServerLayout, Device, Monitor and Screen of /etc/X11/xorg.conf"
Point Two: Graphics Card = Gigabyte Nvidia Geforce 8800 GTS 320 MB
Screen = Chimei 22 Inch LCD model CMV 221D
The native resolution is 1680 x 1050
"If I understand you correctly, you want nice black bars at the side of your screen so your aspect ratio is 4:3? If so, why did you buy a widescreen monitor?"
Yes, that is what I mean, but I didn't buy a widescreen monitor, I was given it because my dad bought a 27 inch, and the widescreen is good for all the new games, but for old classics, eg: Baldur's Gate, they are resolution locked to 4:3 resolutions.
i.e. Baldur's Gate has only 640 x 480 resolution, and Baldur's Gate 2 has 640 x 480, 800 x 600, and 1024 x 768
By the way, before anyone says it, I know about Baldur's Gate Tutu, but I'd like to get the resolutions sorted out first, before I try increasing the original Baldur's Gate's resolution up to 1024 x 768, as that is still a 4:3 resolution
/etc/X11/xorg.conf < I would assume that, that is all what it is normally, because I have only just installed Ubuntu, and haven't gone trying things with it yet.
Because I'm currently booted into windows, I uploaded the DxDiag information file
[http://rapidshare.com/files/58375941/DxDiag.txt.html](http://rapidshare.com/files/58375941/DxDiag.txt.html)

---

### Post by psychicpanda on 2007-09-27
Here is the contents of my xorg.conf file
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8800 GTS]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"AddARGBVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-51
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation G80 [GeForce 8800 GTS]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	1
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	4
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	8
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	15
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by RAOF on 2007-09-27
Since you have an nvidia card, I'd suggest running "nvidia-settings", and selecting the right things there.  One of the LCD options is "aspect-ratio scaled", which is what you're after I believe.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2007-09-27
Sorry psychicpanda, and thasnks for your private message, but this is not something I have any experience of.  I have a standard 4:3 monitor which is good enough for what I need as I'm not a gamer at all.  I also have an ati video card which does everything I want with the open source ati driver, so I can't even help with the nvidia card or drivers which you have.

Looks to me as though RAOF may have the best answer so far, but it will need you to install the proprietary nvidia driver I think, if you don't already have it installed.

---

### Post by strabes on 2007-09-27
Psychopanda:

I don't believe this is possible through any software means, even in windows. You might try your bios. My bios has an option to turn off stretching of resolutions less than the native. I have it enabled so that grub and the ubuntu bootsplash screen isn't all stretched out. If you do this, however, the 1024x768 resolution won't stretch to fill up the entire vertical distance so you'll just have 2 black bars on the sides like you're thinking. It will just be a tiny 1024x768 rectangle in the middle of your monitor.

Here's the best solution I can think of: I'll trade you your 22" LCD for my 17" CRT monitor that I'm not even using. It's a win-win.

---

