---
title: "problem with the desktop"
date: 2008-09-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by canuc on 2008-09-16
Hey, I am a new user of ubuntu. When ubuntu boots up I am able to see full resolution screen. It allows me to log in. As soon as I log in, the visible area of the screen shrinks down to one quarter the size. It is evident that the whole screen is bieng rendered, but only the quarter is visible, everything else is black. 
  I changed the session to Failsafe GNOME session, in the options menu at startup. It is allowing me to see the full screen, but my desktop effects are not enabled. 
  Does any one know a why the default GNOME session would cause this error?

---

### Post by Pro-reason on 2008-09-17
You must be having video-card problems.

What card do you have?  Have you installed drivers?

What is the output of “sudo lshw -C video” if you type it into a terminal?

---

### Post by canuc on 2008-09-17
description: VGA compatible controller
       product: M56P [Radeon Mobility X1600]
       vendor: ATI Technologies Inc
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 00
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm pciexpress msi vga_controller bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=fglrx_pci latency=0 module=fglrx


This is the output... It seems wierd because it was working fine for a while... I reboot and then it stops working. I have downloaded the latest drivers. I think its a problem with xorg.conf file. If you see any problems or suggestions please mention it..:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by Ryadt on 2008-09-17
Try ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by canuc on 2008-09-17
i tried it and it kept the same screen size.. only the portion that was usually visible was fully white. 

I don't know if this helps but I am dual booting mac and ubuntu, on an intel imac. Right now I am using failsafe mode wich is working fine.. but the normal boot mode is not.

---

### Post by Ryadt on 2008-09-17
> **canuc said:**
> i tried it and it kept the same screen size.. only the portion that was usually visible was fully white. 

I don't know if this helps but I am dual booting mac and ubuntu, on an intel imac. Right now I am using failsafe mode wich is working fine.. but the normal boot mode is not.

Try to fix x-server.```
sudo xfix
```

---

### Post by canuc on 2008-09-17
I am running hardy but it tells me that xfix cannot be found..

---

### Post by Ryadt on 2008-09-17
Try this guide: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=241254](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=241254)

---

