---
title: ".7z format problem"
date: 2008-03-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by balagunner on 2008-03-23
Which is the best High compressor (archive) for Linux.

I tried compressing in the .7z format but the compression had no effect on the files that account for 6.7GB before compression. i.e. the files were 6.7 GB before compression and the archive was also 6.7 GB.

Plz help. I need to upload these files and I can't upload a 6.7 GB archive.

Help me to compress it to a very low size say around (4.7 GB)

---

### Post by housam on 2008-03-23
Try one from this [[COLOR="Red"]_list_[/COLOR]]("http://www.linuxrsp.ru/win-lin-soft/table-eng.html") ( the 9th group of " working with files ".

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2008-03-23
What sort of files are you trying ti compress ? (text / photo / audio / movie )

text files like openoffice, txt, pdf's etc can be scrunched really well

photo's arent so bad unless they are highly compressed to start with, same goes for audio and movie's, so you wont see much of a difference...

If it is a movie you could always re-encode it using Avidemux in the repo's and resize the movie and change codecs to maybe xvid or theora (ogg)...

same with audio files, ogg vorbis sounds great at lower compression (I personally use 0 = 64kbps) and it's half the size...

---

### Post by KeyserSoze93 on 2008-03-23
Well there's a big difference between lossless compression and lossy compression. If you want to be able to get your original files out like they went it, you need lossless compression.

I've never used 7-zip so I can't really comment on it.

The most popular compression program for linux is a combination of gzip and tar. Although AFAIK bzip achieves higher compression.

---

### Post by fela on 2008-03-23
i like .tar.bz2 (bzipped tar archive) for low file size (although takes an AGE compressing especially with something that huge)

---

### Post by balagunner on 2008-03-23
Well I'm trying to compress movies. And .tar.bz2 and .gzip doesn't decrease the file size.

And could you please elaborate on re-encoding the movie.


Thanks a lot

---

### Post by Polygon on 2008-03-23
Yeah, no matter what compression you use (tar, bz2, zip, 7zip, rar, ace, whatever) a movie is NOT going to compress very well. (as in you may shave off a few kb....but thats it.

To compress a movie, you have to re-rencode it using a different format, like divx, xvid, wmv, h234 etc. I am not familiar on the steps to do this in linux, but they do exist...forum search and google are your friend :)

---

