---
title: "7.10 evince will not print, and print configuration broken"
date: 2008-02-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by snblitz on 2008-02-27
I am new to ubuntu but old to Linux.

I installed ubuntu 7.10 on two laptops.

On one everything, including printing works fine.

On the other other printing is broken via evince and evolution, but works
fine via everything else I have tried (ooffice, lpr, lpstat)

When I use evince, the network printer shows up, but the print button is greyed out.

Also, when I go into the gnome print configurator it dies with a message about
'unable to connect to cups' or some similar sounding message.

However, I can simply lpr the file and it works fine.

In other words, 'evince WOG.pdf' and then selecting file->print leads to a greyed
out print button even though the network printer is listed there and highlighted.

lpr WOG.pdf works fine.

This would not really bother me except evince is brought up when I click on PDFs
on web pages.  I worked-around this problem by substituting xpdf for evince.

However, next I found evolution will not print either.

On the other hand, even thing works fine from the other laptop which was
installed from the same CD and with all the same options.

help.

---

### Post by snblitz on 2008-02-28
The machine running the cups server was 192.168.1.16.

laptop A where everything worked was 192.168.1.12

laptop B where printing via GTK print dialog produced a greyed out print
button in evince and evolution was 192.168.1.14.

I strace'ed the evince session on both machines.

On laptop A there was an entry in /etc/hosts

192.168.1.16 mcp mcp

while laptop B did not have this line.

I added that line to /etc/hosts on laptop B and printing via the GTK print dialog
in evince and evolution now works correctly.  The System Print configuration
dialog also stopped dying.

---

