---
title: "11.10 Disable multiple user sessions"
date: 2012-04-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by misterblobby on 2012-04-05
Hi,

Does anyone know if there is a way to disable multiple user sessions so that if a machine is locked, another user cannot log in unless the first user logs out? I have been able to disable the guest session, but not turn off multiple sessions entirely.

The screen lock (in xscreensaver) has an option to start a new login, so even when the machine is locked another user can get on the machine.

Thanks.

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2012-04-05
Hi,
I think the solution would be having one and only one user account. I can't imagine a different method. 

My imagination is limited though, perhaps someone else jumps in with a different idea.
JC

---

### Post by misterblobby on 2012-04-08
It's strange this feature doesn't seem to exist in Ubuntu, especially since Windows has been able to do it since at least XP. 

I'd really like to avoid having a single account to prevent a certain 6 year old from being able to do any damage or delete anything they shouldn't.

I suppose the other option is to disable the 'new login' button in xscreensaver - can this be done?

---

### Post by roelforg on 2012-04-08
> **misterblobby said:**
> It's strange this feature doesn't seem to exist in Ubuntu, especially since Windows has been able to do it since at least XP. 

I'd really like to avoid having a single account to prevent a certain 6 year old from being able to do any damage or delete anything they shouldn't.

I suppose the other option is to disable the 'new login' button in xscreensaver - can this be done?


xlock can do so, as long as terminals and ssh still working aren't a problem.
But your xsession is safe as one has to be either root or you to exit xlock, and if someone you're blocking can get root access, you've got bigger problems

---

### Post by misterblobby on 2012-04-10
Xlock works great. Thanks for the advice!

---

