---
title: "[SOLVED] Can't save (overwrite) pre-existing ntfs files on dual boot machine"
date: 2008-10-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by acodring on 2008-10-05
Hi there,
I've got an NTFS data partition shared between an up-to-date Hardy(+proposed) and WinXPSP3.
If while booted in Ubuntu I open an existing file originally created under WinXP and then edit it I get errors when I try to save the changes.
If I 'Save As' a new filename it saves fine, and I can edit it again later.
Testing hasn't been elaborate but I've seen this with gedit and openoffice writer.

Is this just a fact of life in current ntfs write support, or is there a setting I need to change somewhere? 

Sorry if this is a well known thing, but my search terms aren't coming up with anything other than old pre-Hardy-esque "you can't mount ntfs for write at all".

Thanks!
Andrew

---

### Post by Idefix82 on 2008-10-05
If you start gedit and you know you are going to be changing files outside of your /home directory you almost always have to start it with the command
```
gksudo gedit
```
from the terminal. You will then be prompted for your password. The same goes for any other application. You need to give it root privileges to change data outside of your /home directory and you do it with the command gksudo.

---

### Post by acodring on 2008-10-05
Thanks for the tip! I hadn't heard of gksudo before and I'm sure it will be useful for other things...

However, I tried it and even under 'gksudo' I'm' unable to save an edited version of a file originally created under Windows to the partition. Screenshot of the error attached. 

The whole partition is mounted as user:group root:root with full rwx for everyone. I'm wondering if mounting the partition owned by my normal user would help. That will take some man paging since it looks like ntfs-config is writing my fstab for me and I've never worked with it before. See below.

Thanks for spending some brain cycles on this!

Andrew

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=e62189d0-b701-4695-809e-d9961f00019b / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=410549b1-b582-4158-98f1-82a295e33240 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/DataDrive ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ext3 defaults 0 0
/dev/sda6 /media/UbuntuSwap swap defaults 0 0

---

### Post by Idefix82 on 2008-10-05
So you are saying you can save the file under a different name. Can you save it to the mounted Windows partition or did you mean that you can save it to the Ubuntu partition?

---

### Post by acodring on 2008-10-05
I can save it to the mounted Windows ntfs partition, right next to the original in the same folder. 

Also, I just booted back into Windows (10 minutes of disk grinding booting tedium later...) to check that Windows can read the newly created files OK and it can.

---

### Post by Idefix82 on 2008-10-05
OK, here is an idea. Try changing the type of the file system to fuseblk (ie replace ntfs-3g by fuseblk in the relevant line) then unmount and remount. Let me know if that works.

---

### Post by acodring on 2008-10-05
Before I do that, while booted in Windows I noticed that most files are compressed, except of course for the ones created from within Ubuntu.

While still in Windows I went into advanced properties for a couple of the files and turned off compression.

Now I can happily edit them within Ubuntu and can work around this problem.

So, does that change anything? Do either of those drivers support ntfs compression?

---

### Post by Idefix82 on 2008-10-05
To be honest, I don't know. I don't think so. Do you know what compression it is? If you do then you could write a short script with the Gedit external tools plugin that saves a file under a temporary name then compresses it using the same compression algorithm as Windows and then replaces the old file with the new compressed one. I can't think of a better solution (other than not compressing them under windows of course).

---

### Post by TeXtonyx on 2008-10-05
EDIT: I just noticed you discovered the problem was file compression, so I deleted my original
post which was just a troubleshooting idea. I haven't heard about this issue before or a solution.

---

### Post by acodring on 2008-10-05
I found this link to the [ntfs-3g support pages that covers transparent ntfs compression and encryption support]("http://www.ntfs-3g.org/support.html#compressed"). Current status is that it is not supported and writes are denied, as I've seen.

Thanks for working through this with me!

[EDIT: I'll close the thread now, despite holding a remote hope that someone might stumble along with an alternative approach...]

---

