---
title: "10.10 new install of BIND9 Connection refused."
date: 2012-07-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iconoclast88 on 2012-07-07
bind9 issue. ubuntu 10.10. 
Just installed bind9 to do local internal dns on my home network.
i followed this guide: [http://lani78.wordpress.com/2008/08/09/setting-up-a-dns-for-the-local-network/](http://lani78.wordpress.com/2008/08/09/setting-up-a-dns-for-the-local-network/)

I am at the bottom. I run this: "host -l lynch.lan" (lynch.lan is the name of my local domain zone.

and I only get this:
;; Connection to 172.16.0.1#53(172.16.0.1) for lynch.lan failed: connection refused.

172.16.0.1 is the ip of my router.

My bind server ip is 172.16.0.21

How do I change it from the router ip? 
My eth0 client setttings for DNS is pointing to 172.16.0.21

Josh

---

### Post by Rexilion on 2012-07-08
Active system DNS settings are stored in

> /etc/resolv.conf

It's syntax is fairly straightforward.

If you want to make changes permanent, you have to provide us with which network mechanism you are using.

Is it networkmanager?
Is it Ubuntu's stock networkmanager?
Is it wicd?
Is it connman?

Who knows....

---

### Post by iconoclast88 on 2012-07-08
resolv.conf is set to:

nameserver 172.16.0.21

which is the ip of itself, the bind9 server.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2012-07-08
Do the following on the computer running named (l is for list, t=tcp, u=udp, n means no name lookup):

```
netstat -ltn
netstat -lun
```And see if your system is listening on tcp and udp ports 53.  If not then named is not running properly.  If you do see port 53 there, maybe a firewall on your computer is blocking it.

---

### Post by Rexilion on 2012-08-25
> **iconoclast88 said:**
> resolv.conf is set to:

nameserver 172.16.0.21

which is the ip of itself, the bind9 server.


Try setting it to:

> nameserver 127.0.0.1

If I remember correctly, bind listens to 127.0.0.1 only by default?

---

