---
title: "12.04 LTS &gt; 32 Bit &gt; Won't recognize data files (images)"
date: 2012-08-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by YMS_1975 on 2012-08-25
Hey folks,

My mom's laptop is running Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (32 bit OS), and my father burned a data DVD of JPEG's using Windows 7 with Roxio. I watched him burn the disc, and he did it correctly.

His Windows machine reads the data DVD with no problem (as do other Windows machines). But when the DVD is installed into my mom's laptop, it does not recognize that there's anything written on the DVD and instead it treats it as a blank DVD asking the end user (my mom) what she'd like to do (burn something, etc.)

Any ideas as to why this is happening?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2012-08-25
I've never used Roxio .... 

There are many different DVD burning standards. Are you positive it was burned in the most open format with the widest possible reader compatibility and not some new-fangled MS standard?  ISO-9660 is the real standard. I can't recall the extension that allow support for long filenames - there are a few different once.

There are many different types of media. Not every DVD drive works with every sort of media for reading and/or writing.

Sometimes burning a disk at too high a speed makes it unreadable on other DVD readers too.

With all the different file systems that could be on the optical media, perhaps the Linux system doesn't have the correct file system loaded to read the disk?

---

### Post by lakerssuperman on 2012-08-25
There is a chance that it was a bad burn and it doesn't view the data because it doesn't know it's there or it burned it with the wrong file system.  The other possibility is that he left the disk open.  The disc would appear burned and it would work in the Windows environment that it was burned in because the software that burned it would be present.  If you know he closed the disc during burning you may want to try and burn it again.  If not, you may want to load it up in Windows and see if Roxio can close the disc.

---

