---
title: "10.04 LTS: launcher to-tops over running applications"
date: 2010-07-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SimonBrooke on 2010-07-03
Today the update manager on my netbook (Dell Mini 9) offered to upgrade me to 10.04 LTS - prior to that I was running (I think[*]) a 10.04 beta which I'd upgraded from Hardy Heron (which is what it shipped with) - and I foolishly accepted its offer. 


[*] It could have been 9.10 - in any case, similar looking netbook launcher with maximus but in orange and chocolatey brown.

So 10.04 is installed. It looks extremely pretty. But every time I launch an application, the 'netbook launcher' immediately to-tops over the application I've just launched, completely preventing access to it. I can momentarily bring application windows back to the top either by alt-tabbing to them or by selecting their icons in the panel, but immediately the launcher comes back to the top of the stack. This (obviously) means I can't run gconf-editor to explore and try to sort things. I can't even logout because when you try to log out you get that idiotic 'did you really mean it' dialogue, and the netbook launcher  immediately to-tops over that!

Has anyone else seem this behaviour? I'm assuming it's not common, because otherwise they wouldn't have released it... does anyone have any suggestions for how to fix it? I can <crtl>-<alt>-<F1> to get a console, so could edit text files if I knew what I was looking for; however although I've installed wm2 (my favourite ultra-lightweight window manager) GDM is not offering me any way to select a different session.

(further fiddling)...

Right, if I kill GDM and run startx from the console, I get a Gnome session without netbook launcher and without maximus. Everything seems to work. So I can run gconf-editor. In /apps/netbook-editor I find the following keys disable_single_instance (off), force_low_graphics (off), migrated_favorites (on), monitor (0), volume_execute_list (empty). There's one 'sub-folder', favorites, which contains one key, favorites_list, which is empty.

Any suggestions? I would either like to get netbook launcher working properly (first preference), or disable it and have GDM launch the standard Gnome session I currently get by starting X from the console (second preference).

Thanks in advance.

---

