---
title: "22.04, Dell: closing Lid or request for sleep doesnt work."
date: 2023-02-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ubst on 2023-02-22
**Im not able to make the machine to sleep**. 

```
$ uname -a
Linux 5.19.0-32-generic #33~22.04.1-Ubuntu SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Mon Jan 30 17:03:34 UTC 2 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Dell Inc. Precision 3561
GNOME Version 42.5
Windowing System X11
Power Mode -> Balanced
Power Saving Options: Dim Screen ON, Screen Blank 1 minute, Automatic Power Saver ON, Automatic Suspend When on battery power
```

Battery is drained in a few hours when not charging. Closing Lid wouldn't make it sleep. Directly calling suspend works.

**EDIT**: Directly calling Suspend functioned w/o problems only the first time after reboot. The second after wake up, the mouse wasnt functioning for a longer period around 1-2m. The third time suspend didnnt work. Ever since ...

How could I find the root cause and could you suggest some possible solutions ?

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2023-02-22
I suggest following the instructions here --> [https://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2020/05/lid-close-behavior-ubuntu-20-04/]("https://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2020/05/lid-close-behavior-ubuntu-20-04/")

Its for the previous version 20.04, but should work as well on your new 22.04 version. However, I think it is simple and easy to Shut Down and Reboot later - especially with SSD drive, its very quick!
Peace,
Rick

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-02-22
Lid switch option seems to be missing from your list. You need to enable that as well.

---

### Post by ubst on 2023-02-23
> **Rick St. George said:**
> I suggest following the instructions here --> [https://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2020/05/lid-close-behavior-ubuntu-20-04/](https://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2020/05/lid-close-behavior-ubuntu-20-04/)

Its for the previous version 20.04, but should work as well on your new 22.04 version. However, I think it is simple and easy to Shut Down and Reboot later - especially with SSD drive, its very quick!
Peace,
Rick

Thanks. However, even after following the above instructions Closing Lid has no effect.

---

### Post by ubst on 2023-02-23
> **ne29914 said:**
> Lid switch option seems to be missing from your list. You need to enable that as well.
Btw In the **Settings->Power **options, there is **no** **close lid **option.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-02-23
Post the output from this:
```

gsettings get org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power lid-close-ac-action
gsettings get org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power lid-close-battery-action

```
But of those should be set to 'suspend'... You can set those via
```

gsettings set org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power lid-close-ac-action 'suspend'
gsettings set org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power lid-close-battery-action 'suspend'

```
Or you could set them manually using the dconf-editor.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-02-23
On your "EDIT" for sleep/hibernation problem, please post the output of:
```

grep 'model name' /proc/cpuinfo | head -n1
unrame -r
lsb_release -d

```

---

### Post by Rick St. George on 2023-02-23
> **ubst said:**
> Thanks. However, even after following the above instructions Closing Lid has no effect.

Excuse me for asking but, did you Remove the # at the beginning of the lines you edited in logind.conf file?
And saved it afterward? 
What happened after rebooting, after fully operational ...  and closing the lid?

---

