---
title: "20.04 freezes while browsing"
date: 2020-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by prakhar12 on 2020-05-12
[COLOR=#000000] installed lubuntu 20.04 on a sony vaio ` SVE1513CYNB and the installation went well. But every time I launch FireFox or Chrome and browse to a web page, the screen becomes very unresponsive, then eventually the computer [/COLOR][COLOR=#417394]freezes[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000] up and I will have to cold restart the computer.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2020-05-12
How much memory is in that computer? Use the system montitor or any other tool you like to monitor memory and swap usage. Web browsers are very good at using all of it.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2020-05-12
Try running *uBlock *and see if that helps.  That machine only came with 2G RAM, so you may have issues on the web.  uBlock will surely help though.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-12
Very wise comments already but I'm afraid the problem is even worse than simply insufficient RAM.

According to this [specifications]("https://www.digit.in/laptops/sony-vaio-e-series-sve1513cynb-price-1235.html"), it has indeed only 2GB DDR3 RAM, a problem in itself, but even worse is the now legacy and unsupported "Intel HD Graphics 3000" which has been obsoleted by Intel a few years ago. Without proper drivers for Linux and Windows freezing problems are to be expected, a very sad situation considering it's only a 7 years old machine. Many computers of the same vintage or older but with different graphics are still going strong.

---

### Post by xxteraxx on 2020-05-12
WAIT, I have had the kernel cause many many random freezing issues.  Try updating to kernel 5.5.2.  This is the one that I have seen is stable and does not freeze.  Other kernels just freeze up and some do not even recover

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-05-12
> **xxteraxx said:**
> WAIT, I have had the kernel cause many many random freezing issues.  Try updating to kernel 5.5.2.  This is the one that I have seen is stable and does not freeze.  Other kernels just freeze up and some do not even recover

That may happen if you have a brand new hardware. In that situation it's expected a newer kernel to provide better support, usually.
The situation here is the opposite.

---

