---
title: "10.04.1 random software/os crash now can't boot and ext4 inaccessable"
date: 2010-08-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ozone77 on 2010-08-29
Not having a good night. Typing away on some code and load & run my latest changes in chrome, mouse starts lagging and system slows right down, ok maybe it's a bug in chrome.
I close chrome, try to get to a terminal to kill processes, no luck, go away for a while and come back hoping it sorts itself out, still frozen so I reboot.

Now I get a horrible crash almost immediately on boot with a bunch of cryptic numeric error codes then:
Begin: Running /scripts/local-bottom
...
mounting /dev on /root/dev failed: no such file or directory
... /sys/ /root/sys failed: ... etc...
Target filesystem doesn't have /sbin/init
No init found
.. then dumped to a busybox prompt.

Tried my livecd, won't boot. Try live boot without "quiet nosplash" to see why and it seems it's also crashing horribly trying to mount the ext4 file system on the internal hdd.

Nothing wrong with the drive physically as far as I'm aware, SMART reports no problems and I'm now running off the same drive on the windows partition.

So firstly, is this a lost cause or is there any way I can get my work back off this thing?
Of course it would be nice to get my OS back but just my last couple of days work would be something.

Secondly, how did this happen? For a software error to cause such damage to the fs that the driver seems to crash trying to load it seems a bit extreme.

(Running ubuntu 10.04.1 32 bit)

---

### Post by Ozone77 on 2010-08-30
Ok, well I was able to use this excellent utility [http://sourceforge.net/projects/ext2read/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/ext2read/) to access the partition in windows and save my recent work that wasn't backed up.
Interestingly the entire directory structure is readable and seems accessible with ext2read but it would crash when trying to read certain files.

I'm going to try a non ubuntu livecd to repair the partition once I can get hold of one, unless there's a way to stop my 10.04.1 cd crashing when it tries to mount this partition.

Would be grateful for any suggestions as to how to go about this or if anyone has come across this kind of thing before, any hope or should I just give up and reinstall?

---

### Post by Ozone77 on 2010-08-31
Final installment in this somewhat pointless conversation I'm having with myself here...

Downloaded a livecd iso of SystemRescueCd at work which I couldn't do here at home because my internet is shaped at the moment.

Ran fdisk -l to remind myself which partition was which, 
then ran fsck on the culprit, took less than a second to repair a few orphaned entries, rebooted and everything is back to normal.

It seems strange that ext4 knows a filesystem error is recorded on a previous mount (it says so right before the crash if you look at the screen shot above from a livecd boot) and it doesn't at least give an option to do this automatically before trying to mount it again.

Can't believe I couldn't fix this simple error using the livecd the system was installed from or the recover boot option, both of which obliviously attempt to mount the fs and fatally crash.

---

### Post by pgmmpk on 2010-11-14
Thank you very much, you saved my day!

I had similar symptoms: boot crash when booting from disk. Live cd did not allow mount/fsck, thinking that disk is mounted/busy (apparently livecd tries to mount hdd during the boot). My system is not dual-boot, so reading from windows side was not an option. System Rescue Cd + fsck fixed the problem!

Again, thanks for sharing your experience

-Mike

---

