---
title: "Saving web pages as PDF?"
date: 2007-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ravenus on 2007-10-19
What would be the simple way in Ubuntu of saving web pages as PDF files? In Windows I use a utility called pdf995 which acts as a pseudo-printer.

Thanks for any help :)

---

### Post by whitingx on 2007-10-19
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PDFPrinting]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PDFPrinting")

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by LanDan on 2007-10-19
in Firefox you do the dollowing

file - print - and select cups/pfd

its default nowadays ;)

---

### Post by mahousaru on 2007-10-19
The equivalent in Ubuntu is to use cups-pdf

[http://ubuntu.wordpress.com/2006/03/23/print-to-pdf-using-cups-pdf/](http://ubuntu.wordpress.com/2006/03/23/print-to-pdf-using-cups-pdf/)

In OpenSuSE the location of the output is specified in a file called pdf something in /etc/cups

Just tried it myself and it is already installed in Ubuntu 7.10 :) so all you need to do is add the pdf printer in System, Administration, Printing, New Printer, Print into PDF File, Generic, PDF File Generator. Give the printer a decent name and bobs your uncle.

Now when I check the /etc/cups directory I see

cups-pdf.conf

Look for the line

Out ${HOME}/PDF

and change if you don't like it outputting to PDF in your home directory, then change it.

How bleeping easy can Ubuntu make it I'm amazed!  I'm a long time SuSE user and I'm getting constantly shocked by the ease of use :p

*EDIT*
Is the cups-pdf generated by default?  When I checked the printer settings initially I didn't see an object for it?

---

### Post by ravenus on 2007-10-19
That worked super. Thanks a lot, people :D

---

### Post by LanDan on 2007-10-19
*EDIT*
Is the cups-pdf generated by default?  When I checked the printer settings initially I didn't see an object for it?[/QUOTE]


it is , at least in my xubuntu

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2007-11-28
Has this actually worked for anyone? I have been trying in vain to print to PDF for the last month. I have read forum contributiions, tried IRC, tried launch pad and no one has been able to assist me. Does any one know how I can get paid support for a single issue rather than per annum? I am getting desperate. Please don't send me back to some document written for distros before Gutsy. Tell me what has worked for you in Gutsy. I guarantee you no "how to" for the other distros have worked with Gutsy.

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2007-12-01
Below is a portion of the error log, any ideas?

E [01/Dec/2007:11:38:02 +0000] [Job 180] Canceling job since it could not be sent after 5 tries.
E [01/Dec/2007:11:38:26 +0000] PID 16471 (/usr/lib/cups/backend/cups-pdf) stopped with status 252!
E [01/Dec/2007:11:38:27 +0000] [Job 183] Canceling job since it could not be sent after 5 tries.
E [01/Dec/2007:11:44:33 +0000] cupsdAuthorize: Local authentication certificate not found!
E [01/Dec/2007:11:44:33 +0000] cupsdAuthorize: Local authentication certificate not found!
E [01/Dec/2007:11:44:33 +0000] cupsdAuthorize: Local authentication certificate not found!
E [01/Dec/2007:11:44:36 +0000] cupsdAuthorize: Local authentication certificate not found!
E [01/Dec/2007:11:44:36 +0000] PID 16524 (/usr/lib/cups/backend/cups-pdf) stopped with status 252!
E [01/Dec/2007:11:44:36 +0000] cupsdAuthorize: Local authentication certificate not found!
E [01/Dec/2007:11:45:10 +0000] PID 16526 (/usr/lib/cups/backend/cups-pdf) stopped with status 252!

---

### Post by DJiNN on 2007-12-01
> **LanDan said:**
> in Firefox you do the dollowing

file - print - and select cups/pfd

its default nowadays ;)

Hey, LanDan, thanks for such a GREAT tip. I didn't know that it was so straightforward..... That has to be one of the coolest things i've come across this year!! 

I'm now off to convert a zillion web pages that i have saved as links!! :)

Cheers......

DJiNN

---

### Post by DJiNN on 2007-12-01
> **labinnsw said:**
> Has this actually worked for anyone? I have been trying in vain to print to PDF for the last month. I have read forum contributiions, tried IRC, tried launch pad and no one has been able to assist me. Does any one know how I can get paid support for a single issue rather than per annum? I am getting desperate. Please don't send me back to some document written for distros before Gutsy. Tell me what has worked for you in Gutsy. I guarantee you no "how to" for the other distros have worked with Gutsy.

I've used this in both Xubuntu (Gutsy) and also Linux Mint Daryana (Gutsy again) and both work really well, with the exception that the colours are not reproduced along with the pdf, so any pages with a "Background" colour (Distrowatch for example, which is kind of yellowish) just ends up being white.

Apart from that, it's great. As LanDan mentioned earlier, just select "Print" and then the Cups/Pdf should be the default already. It then saves it to a PDF folder in /home (In Linux Mint it saves to Documents. 

Amazingly useful. :) I hope that you find a way to get it working.

DJiNN

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2007-12-01
DJiNN, That is what should happen but it is not happening so that is why I am here. Have you had a look at the error log I posted. Is there anything in there that will help you to figure out what the solution might be?

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2007-12-06
I have found a solution to my problem. Before I give the solution, I would like to briefly describe what my problem was and how it started.

I had a working Feisty and upgraded to Gutsy. After that I could no longer print to PDF. I read and followed the instructions from various posts and nothing changed until last night. I found a post at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cupsys/+bug/152537](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cupsys/+bug/152537) about an unrelated matter. I tried one of the solutions offered there "sudo aa-complain cupsd" and the problem was immediately fixed.

It may or may not work for you. If it does work I would like to know.

---

