---
title: "11.10 adds 32bit packages to 64bit repos? Multiarch?"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by arcnet on 2011-10-17
Hi,
I upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10 and noticed that aptitude shows every package twice.
The version is the same, but size differs - that's all aptitude tells me.

But taking a look at synaptic (weehe, luckily this isn't a headless server, "only" the laptop I use for work) reveals that both the 64bit AND 32bit packages can be installed, with a little marking ":i386" after each package name (that is, after half of them, because the other half is the same package in 64bit version).

aptitude already messed up at least one package I installed this week  (forgot which one), because it installed a 32bit executable but 64bit  libraries.

How can I disable this? I looked at /etc/apt/* but there was nothing which I identified as "use 32bit packages"...

If you need any more info (config files, screenshots, logs), just ask. I am happy to provide it.
But maybe this is known?

Thx, Sebastian

[nope, I don't want to use multiarch, I am 100% sure. If I needed multiarch, I would go for a full 32bit system]

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-10-17
Aptitude might mess things up, but apt-get gets it right. I wouldn't have thought Aptitude would mess it, actually.

---

### Post by arcnet on 2011-10-17
Maybe I messed up, as I picked the wrong package for my architecture (not expecting multiarch weirdness ;))

My point was: How can I disable the whole multiarch setup?

software-properties-gtk has no option "allow foreign architectures" or anything like that, though the specs I found mention a toggle in that tool: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MultiarchSpec](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/MultiarchSpec)
Seems like that spec was implemented and update-manager gave me multiarch without asking me, but a bunch of stuff (including the issues and a GUI element) were not taken care of -.-

To answer my own question, I tried some more google queries and hit the askubuntu question I was looking for [http://askubuntu.com/questions/66875/how-to-disable-multiarch-support](http://askubuntu.com/questions/66875/how-to-disable-multiarch-support)

There is a magic file /etc/dpkg/dpkg.cfg.d/multiarch which enables multiarch. Removing/renaming it should do the trick and disable multiarch.

Now, it seems like there are a lot of i386 packages installed on this computer.
If someone has a pointer on how to remove them/replace them with their amd64 counterparts, that"d be great :)

---

