---
title: "Is my fstab correct?"
date: 2009-10-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PureRumble on 2009-10-12
Hi all.

I got sick and tired of mounting my ntfs drives in ubuntu 9.04 every time I boot up.

So I've done my best fixing /etc/fstab.

But one of the drives are writable and I'm so worried that I have done something wrong and after a couple of write-ops the drive is gonna go bye-bye.

Can you please check my fstab? The writeable drive is /dev/hda1.

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=847bde4a-b342-4952-9687-7b8da083c9a5 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb3 :
UUID=9e283790-dc82-4af6-8a1a-06ee10acc554 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/drive-one ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/drive-two ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```

What concerns me the most is the encoding setting. How in heaven's name can I be sure that is en_US.UTF-8?

What command/method can I even use to check the correct encoding of a mounted drive?

I spent like hours figuring this out.

Appreciate your help.

---

### Post by falconindy on 2009-10-12
Specifying utf8 is unnecessary for hard drives. If you're concerned about the settings you're using, throw in ro (read only) and make sure that it works to your liking before changing it to rw.

---

### Post by PureRumble on 2009-10-13
Heya.

Why do you say utf8 is irrelevant for HDs? I thought it's about the encoding of filenames. Can't I somehow check how filenames have been encoded?

I've had it in read only mode and everything went fine.

But I'm still concerned that something might be wrong.

Thx!

/Arash

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-10-13
Do this:

[SIZE="3"][COLOR="Red"]Auto mount Windows disks[/COLOR][/SIZE]
Fire up a terminal, to do this click Applications > Accessories > Terminal
Then type (or copy/paste) the following - 1 line at a time
```

sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install ntfs-config
```
Ok so when that returns you to user@pcname, that should be installed                 

Next, make sure you have NO drives mounted (they'll usually appear on your desktop). If you have disks mounted, right-click the icons (one by one) and choose unmount.
They also appear when opening Nautilus.
Then run the program from System > Administration > NTFS Configuration Tool

Enter your password when prompted - and choose the drives that you want to be automounted. Click Apply.

Now simply make sure that "Enable Write Support for Internal Drives" is checked and click OK.

---

