---
title: "10.04 sudden freeze !"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ibrahim.k on 2010-05-10
Hi,
I have installed a fresh copy of 10.04 Lucid Lynx. on my hp-dv6 1045ee

but suddenly everything stops working caps lock doesnt blink.
what should I do regarding this ?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-10
i often see your posts here :confused:

take time to search (google: "your hardware"+lucid) about your config, and understand what the logs says:

- into /home: unhide .Xsession-errors (with the menu settings)
- into: system - admin - log viewer

---

### Post by ibrahim.k on 2010-05-10
> **dino99 said:**
> i often see your posts here :confused:

take time to search (google: "your hardware"+lucid) about your config, and understand what the logs says:

- into /home: unhide .Xsession-errors (with the menu settings)
- into: system - admin - log viewer

[SIZE=3]

I have seen it many times also but I don't know how to deal with it !!!
I don't understand all the strange scripts in the log viewer !:([/SIZE]

---

### Post by ibrahim.k on 2010-05-10
It happens especially when using the ubuntu software center

---

### Post by ibrahim.k on 2010-05-11
Guys please help me i hate this :(

---

### Post by pawanh on 2010-06-27
I'm having the same problem. The computer freezes randomly and the only option left is to use hard reset. I can't pinpoint any specific program that causes this and there are no prior indications such as slowing down. I thought my CPU was getting hot, so I cleaned the fan and now I'm getting lower temperature readings, but still the computer keeps freezing.

I've been using Ubuntu for about a year and I love it.. but these random freezes frustrate me. They seem to have increased in frequency with Lynx.

---

### Post by alecz20 on 2012-04-26
I have the same problem, but it happened with older versions of Ubuntu as well on the same hardware.

I believe it to be more of a hardware issue. My relevant hardware components are:

Intel i5 750
Asus P7P55-M
ATI Radeon HD 5770

I suspect either the motherboard or the video card.
Note that the hang does not occur on Windows (I dual-boot for games)

Maybe if everyone that has this problem posts their motherboard, CPU and Video card we can nail it down.

For those that don't know their hardware use the following commands:

```

$ sudo su
# lshw | less

```

then use the arrows to browse and press 'q' to exit

---

