---
title: "12.04 upgrade-can only log in as 2d"
date: 2012-07-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Qualtrough on 2012-07-29
On my dual boot PC I upgraded to 12.04 a few days ago, from the previous version. I have always upgraded one version at a time. The upgrade went fine, but I did not really like Unity, so I followed some advice from a a webiste (forgotten) to remove unity and revert to Gnome (?). Since that time when I log in to start-up, if I don't select anything I just get my wallpaper, nothing else. I can log in if I select the 2D option. I would like to get back to 3D and a normal start-up.  I assume my original upgrade was 3d, because 1: I could log in normally, and 2: I was able to use MyUnity to get the icons on the left to disappear, but now when I open MyUnity it says many options won't work because I am running in 2D, so I cannot do that. 

Although I have been using various versions of Ubuntu for more than two years I am pretty much a newb, so if you have any advice please assume that I will need step-by-step instructions. Thanks in advance to anyone who can help!

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-07-29
With out knowing what modifications were made it is difficult to provide step by step instructions. Try the following from a terminal.```
sudo apt-get update
``` checks for updates ```
sudo apt-get upgrade
``` installs updates```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop 
``` This will install missing components . Restart

---

### Post by Qualtrough on 2012-07-29
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> With out knowing what modifications were made it is difficult to provide step by step instructions. Try the following from a terminal.```
sudo apt-get update
``` checks for updates ```
sudo apt-get upgrade
``` installs updates```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop 
``` This will install missing components . Restart

Thank you very much for taking the time to try to help.

 I did all that, and after installation I see this:

ubuntu-desktop is already the newest version. 

I restarted the computer and logged onto Ubuntu as normal. Weirdly, and this happened before, I get a blank gray screen and then the desktop and all the icons appear after the gray screen disappears. When I checked MyUnity it still says You are in 2D, bummer. 

I wish I could tell you more about what I did, but I can't. Any other suggestions for things to try?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-07-29
Try this and reboot. ```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall ubuntu-desktop
```

---

### Post by Qualtrough on 2012-07-29
Bingo, thanks so much! I reinstalled, and noted that it indicated that only one item needed to be reinstalled. That must have been what I had inadvertently removed, and after restarting it started up normally and I am in 3D again. I was able to use MyUnity to make the icons disappear whereas before they were fixed. I really appreciate your help.

I have another question, but will do a new thread for that.

---

