---
title: "Mount with UUIDs and change removability?"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by filligree on 2008-04-26
This should be a quick one - I have an external hard drive which my computer thinks is non-removable.  This isn't too much of a problem, but lately it mounts it on the mount point for another internal hard drive if I switch the external one on during boot.  If I don't switch the external one on during boot, I have to manually mount the drive.

What I want to do is to label both the internal and external drives by their UUIDs in fstab, and if possible change the status of the external one to removable.  I know the first is doable, but I don't seem to be able to clarify exactly where I should put the UUID in fstab.  As for the second, any suggestions would be greatly received.

My fstab looks like this:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdc1 :
UUID=5c1d0b27-5662-4a46-9a42-0f48962452b6 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdc5 :
UUID=0dc9f6f0-5067-40a4-8b47-534dd69d491e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Win ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/New ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
```

The internal hard drive is mounted at /media/Win, the external one is mounted at /media/New.

Thanks!:)

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-04-26
I'm assuming you're talking about sda1 and sdc1, with sdc1 being your external.
Add a # sign in front of the external drive entry so that it will automount when you plug it in (this just disabled the entry)
```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
```
# /dev/sdc1 /media/New ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
```
If you install the "ntfsprogs" metapackage you can label the external hard drive with the "ntfslabel" program (the drive must be unmounted to do this).  Name it something like "usbdisk" so it will mount at /media/usbdisk automatically.

For your internal hard drive, you can get the UUID by running
```
ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid
```
Just match the UUID to the device.  Then modify your fstab to look like
```
UUID=(the-drive-uuid) /media/Win ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
```

If you change the mount point for the internal drive, you need to create the mount point manually with
```
sudo mkdir /media/<new-mount-point>
```
Now you can
```
sudo mount -a
```

---

### Post by filligree on 2008-04-28
Cool, thanks for that it seems to work OK.

---

