---
title: "Getting Firefox and Chrome to remember their last window state and open UN-maximized!"
date: 2011-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Aesso on 2011-10-24
Long-time Ubuntu user here (since Feisty 7.04) now running Oneiric 11.10 64-bit. I am a self-professed fan of the Global Menu in Unity (yes, we DO exist! :)).

An after-effect of having the global menu available in Ubuntu is that I tend to prefer NOT having most windows maximized. It makes more sense to me, I suppose. But, no matter how many times I try, I can't get Firefox or Chrome to open un-maximized windows when they start. Opening a new window in an existing instance also does the same thing.

It is extremely annoying to have to un-maximize my windows upon loading. They should open exactly how I closed them last! Other applications do, after all. How do I "force" these browsers to respect my desired window states?

---

### Post by Aesso on 2011-10-29
Tried to create a Compiz window rule with a fixed window size like I did _[here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1868253")_, but since pop-up windows generated by Chrome and Firefox don't have any attributes that distinguish them from a regular browser window (that I could pinpoint using the "Grab" function, anyway), I couldn't make ONLY the browser window open at a specific size, so I deleted the rule. 

Here's what I tried:[INDENT][FONT=Courier New]class=Google-chrome & name=google-chrome
class=Firefox & name=Navigator & role=browser [/FONT]

[/INDENT]If anyone knows of another solution, I'd appreciate it.

---

### Post by Greg Merchan on 2012-03-25
I also prefer the global menu. Even on my 1920x1080 screen. And I will even when I get a larger screen, or a higher res one. The single menu is the right thing to do.

I have a similar problem in that I often have Chrome maximized but when I open a link in a new window I want it to not be maximized. Since there's been so much back and forth about whether apps or the window manager should remember positions and such, I don't know where to file a bug report.

---

