---
title: "11.04 Natty Behaving Bad"
date: 2011-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ThatCoolGuy220 on 2011-05-10
Hi as you can see on my last Threads i was trying to fix 10.04 and looking for Hardy heron for my laptop but finally  i installed 11.04 on my laptop after struggling with 10.04.

As seen at:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1753295](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1753295)

And

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1754255](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1754255)

:popcorn:.


Natty seems fine but...... It takes dang long to start i mean:

1: I turn on my laptop

2: It boots and get to a purple screen that stays there for a while

3: Finally The splash animation appeared and it takes a bit to load the Login screen.



I hasnt have to take that long huh?.



Another issue is, That almost ramdomly i get a black screen with a lot of code on it
but as far as i can tell i think this lines would explain.


```
BUG Unable to handle kernel  NULL pointerdereference at (null)
```:confused:  Still not get it Cause there is not much Documentation about this or as far as my searching skills could go.



I hope somebody could give me some directions on this 

Thanks...........

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-10
It doesn't look right!
How long does the boot process take in total?

---

### Post by ThatCoolGuy220 on 2011-05-10
2+2 is 4 we have 1 more it becomes 5 then...........

Its like 20 to 22 seconds.

its not cool at all imagine at Emergency situation.... also the other error could make you lose hours of hard work

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-05-10
Hmm mine takes about 50 seconds.
22 seconds is too long for you?

---

### Post by ThatCoolGuy220 on 2011-05-10
Yup... and sorry 50 secs dang im blessed then i mean i though i had the worst time this reall needs a fix...

but seriously this O.S runs ok but the only bad thing are those Bugs also the fact that it gets a little slugish when to install software comes or doing multiple taks

Hope it gets fixed or IDK somebody come with a Code that could improve or fix this stuff

---

### Post by ThatCoolGuy220 on 2011-05-10
Enuff i gonna try xubuntu to see what happens

---

