---
title: "CPU temp with an MSI motherboard"
date: 2007-08-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ManOnOneWheel on 2007-08-18
Alright, so I just built my first PC *yea* and I am interested in how well it is preforming, which includes knowing what temperature my CPU is running at.

I have an MSI P6N motherboard with the nVidia 650I chipset and an E6550 C2D processor. I've searched long and hard to find something that will show me my temp, but nothing seems to detect it. 

I tired lm-sensors, gKrellm, conky, mbmon, ComputerTemp, and a few others I can't remember right now.  I know my mobo has temperature monitors because I can monitor my temp in my BIOS, it just seems the Ubuntu can't detect/find them. It's very frustrating. If anyone has any suggestions, please help. Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2007-08-18
After installing lm_sensors, did you run the *sensors-detect* command to find out what your probing devices are ?

---

### Post by ManOnOneWheel on 2007-08-18
Yes, I followed the guide that is popular around here. Here is my output 

```
I will now generate the commands needed to load the required modules.
Just press ENTER to continue: 

To make the sensors modules behave correctly, add these lines to
/etc/modules:

#----cut here----
# I2C adapter drivers
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 0 at 1:00.0
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 1 at 1:00.0
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 2 at 1:00.0
i2c-nforce2
# Chip drivers
eeprom
lm92
#----cut here----

```

so my /etc/modules file looks like this, I reversed the order of the modules like the guide said.

```
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

fuse
lp
sbp2


# Generated by sensors-detect on Fri Aug 17 22:02:27 2007
# I2C adapter drivers
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 0 at 1:00.0
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 1 at 1:00.0
# modprobe unknown adapter NVIDIA i2c adapter 2 at 1:00.0

lm92
eeprom
i2c-nforce2

```

then I load the modules

```

casey@DarkTower:~$ sudo modprobe lm92
casey@DarkTower:~$ sudo modprobe eeprom
casey@DarkTower:~$ sudo modprobe i2c-nforce2

```

then I run sensors, and that's where I get problems.
```

casey@DarkTower:~$ sensors
No sensors found!
Make sure you loaded all the kernel drivers you need.
Try sensors-detect to find out which these are.

```

even after a restart I get the same error.

I searched around for a bit, but didn't find any conclusive answer.

---

### Post by ManOnOneWheel on 2007-08-18
Anyone? I think my troubles are related to the version of lm-sensors that I downloaded and that maybe the i2c-nforce2 module is not supported . . . or something like that. But even if it was, I have no idea how to fix that.

---

### Post by bfhicks on 2007-08-23
we are running almost the exact same machines  and I encountered this problem, also.  However, last night was first time I attempted so I'll try and play around and see if I can get this working.

---

### Post by ManOnOneWheel on 2007-08-23
Well, ive got the temperature problem solved, sort of. I downloaded and compiled the latest kernel(2.6.22) from kernel.org, then i downloaded and compiled the latest version of lm-sensors (2.10.4). I ran sensors-detect, loaded the modules etc, now when I run sensors i get 

coretemp-isa-0000
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 0:          +35 C

coretemp-isa-0001
Adapter: ISA adapter
Core 1:           +34 C

yea! So I have some temperature readings now! Unfortunatly, the new kernel does not support my linksys WUSB11 network adapter, so i've lost my internet. Further, i can't get any of the little applets to show me my temp on a panel or anything nifty like that. but i still have some messing around to do there. Im just glad to be getting some kind of temperature readings.

---

