---
title: "Ubuntu Crashes and Shows Login again"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AARisAIR on 2008-04-29
After using Ubuntu for a few hours working smoothly every once in awhile (at least once a day) when I get ready to switch applications or even just click on the menu it crashes, the shell appears after the screen GUI goes away, shows something and the login screen appears again.

I am running an Intel Core 2 Duo 2.40 ghz with 2gb of ram and an Nvidia GeForce 8600 GT. This is really pretty much my first time running Ubuntu.

Thankyou.

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-04-30
Have you manually edited your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file at all?  I was having similar problems but, it seems to have been related to options in that file because I haven't seen that behavior in a while.

---

### Post by AARisAIR on 2008-04-30
> **vor said:**
> Have you manually edited your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file at all?  I was having similar problems but, it seems to have been related to options in that file because I haven't seen that behavior in a while.

Nope :( I havnt edited anything manually.

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-04-30
Can you open a terminal and post the output of the following commands:

```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

And

```

nvidia-settings -q NvidiaDriverVersion

```

---

### Post by AARisAIR on 2008-04-30
> **vor said:**
> Can you open a terminal and post the output of the following commands:

```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


And

```

nvidia-settings -q NvidiaDriverVersion

```

The program 'nvidia-settings' is currently not installed.  You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
bash: nvidia-settings: command not found





:o should I have that installed?

Thankyou.

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-04-30
> **AARisAIR said:**
> :o should I have that installed?

Thankyou.

You can install it if you'd like but, I don't think it will help with your problem.  I was mostly looking for options in /etc/X11/xorg.conf that have been known to cause X to crash for me (nvidia 8400M GS).  

Are you running Ubuntu 8.04?  If not, and, you don't want to upgrade, you may want to see if installing newer nvidia drivers via [envy]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html") helps.

---

### Post by AARisAIR on 2008-04-30
> **vor said:**
> You can install it if you'd like but, I don't think it will help with your problem.  I was mostly looking for options in /etc/X11/xorg.conf that have been known to cause X to crash for me (nvidia 8400M GS).  

Are you running Ubuntu 8.04?  If not, and, you don't want to upgrade, you may want to see if installing newer nvidia drivers via [envy]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html") helps.

Yes, I am running 8.04, should I still try the new versions?

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-04-30
No.  I think Ubuntu 8.04 has the latest stable nvidia drivers.  The next time it crashes, after you log back in, it may be useful to post the output of the gdm log.  So, the output of:

```

cat /var/log/gdm/:0.log.1

```

---

### Post by AARisAIR on 2008-04-30
> **vor said:**
> No.  I think Ubuntu 8.04 has the latest stable nvidia drivers.  The next time it crashes, after you log back in, it may be useful to post the output of the gdm log.  So, the output of:

```

cat /var/log/gdm/:0.log.1

```

Here it is, thanks:


This is a pre-release version of the X server from The X.Org Foundation.
It is not supported in any way.
Bugs may be filed in the bugzilla at [http://bugs.freedesktop.org/](http://bugs.freedesktop.org/).
Select the "xorg" product for bugs you find in this release.
Before reporting bugs in pre-release versions please check the
latest version in the X.Org Foundation git repository.
See [http://wiki.x.org/wiki/GitPage](http://wiki.x.org/wiki/GitPage) for git access instructions.

X.Org X Server 1.4.0.90
Release Date: 5 September 2007
X Protocol Version 11, Revision 0
Build Operating System: Linux Ubuntu (xorg-server 2:1.4.1~git20080131-1ubuntu9)
Current Operating System: Linux aarondt 2.6.24-16-generic #1 SMP Thu Apr 10 13:23:42 UTC 2008 i686
Build Date: 15 April 2008  05:26:17PM
 
	Before reporting problems, check [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
	to make sure that you have the latest version.
Module Loader present
Markers: (--) probed, (**) from config file, (==) default setting,
	(++) from command line, (!!) notice, (II) informational,
	(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(==) Log file: "/var/log/Xorg.0.log", Time: Wed Apr 30 12:23:01 2008
(==) Using config file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"
(II) Module "ramdac" already built-in
expected keysym, got XF86KbdLightOnOff: line 70 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdBrightnessDown: line 71 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdBrightnessUp: line 72 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdLightOnOff: line 70 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdBrightnessDown: line 71 of pc
expected keysym, got XF86KbdBrightnessUp: line 72 of pc
SetClientVersion: 0 9
SetGrabKeysState - disabled
SetGrabKeysState - enabled

Backtrace:
0: /usr/bin/X(xf86SigHandler+0x7e) [0x80c780e]
1: [0xb7fad420]
2: /usr/bin/X [0x8172681]
3: /usr/bin/X [0x8146267]
4: /usr/bin/X [0x8146eb4]
5: /usr/bin/X [0x81506de]
6: /usr/bin/X(Dispatch+0x2cf) [0x808d8df]
7: /usr/bin/X(main+0x48b) [0x807471b]
8: /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(__libc_start_main+0xe0) [0xb7d45450]
9: /usr/bin/X(FontFileCompleteXLFD+0x201) [0x8073a91]

Fatal server error:
Caught signal 11.  Server aborting

---

### Post by jimmy the saint on 2008-04-30
There is someone else with a very similar problem, only his is related to firefox b5.  If you are using firefox when it crashes, perhaps that may be it.  Just a though.

---

### Post by AARisAIR on 2008-04-30
> **jimmy the saint said:**
> There is someone else with a very similar problem, only his is related to firefox b5.  If you are using firefox when it crashes, perhaps that may be it.  Just a though.


Hi, yes most of the time I am running firefox 3 b5 since its included with Ubuntu, so you think downgrading it would change anything?

Thanks.

---

### Post by jimmy the saint on 2008-04-30
I have no idea. His issue was that clicking on a specific link caused the crash.  To me this indicates an issue with the way firefox is handling certain things.  I would say pay attention to what you are doing when the crash occurs and, if it is always with the same type of links, you probably discovered the same problem he had.  I would assume that firefox 2 would work for you in that case.
If nothing else, by downgrading you will be able to see if the problem is with ff3b5.

---

### Post by AARisAIR on 2008-05-01
> **jimmy the saint said:**
> I have no idea. His issue was that clicking on a specific link caused the crash.  To me this indicates an issue with the way firefox is handling certain things.  I would say pay attention to what you are doing when the crash occurs and, if it is always with the same type of links, you probably discovered the same problem he had.  I would assume that firefox 2 would work for you in that case.
If nothing else, by downgrading you will be able to see if the problem is with ff3b5.


The thing is though its usually when I'm switching apps :( I dont think its ever been when I click a link.

---

