---
title: "Screen flicker/blink problem"
date: 2009-01-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jameshardy88 on 2009-01-12
Hi, ive got a problem with my screen for some reason, I can't work out the cause because sometimes it just won't be present but my screen will blink slightly, it doesn't affect the whole screen and it happens very fast (under half a second) and i can't really work out why. I am using the currently recommended graphics driver.

Any and all help appreciated thanks, James

---

### Post by Jameshardy88 on 2009-01-12
-

---

### Post by mgol on 2009-01-12
Which graphic card do You use? nVidia? AMD/ATI? Intel? SiS? Which is the driver You're talking about?

Do You use Gutsy, Hardy or Intrepid?

Try to be more explanatory...

Post also Your xorg.conf:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Jameshardy88 on 2009-01-12
Im using intrepid, have an nvidia card and im using the Nvidia accelerated graphics diver version 177 which my system recommends.

Here is te output

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by Brerlapn on 2009-01-14
By no means should this be taken as a definitive response, but I just installed Intrepid 8.10 last night and upon activating the "[recommended]" restricted driver for my nvidia video card (GeForce Go 7300) my screen began the random flickering that the OP described.

The recommended driver for nvidia was version 177.  When I disabled the restricted driver, the flickering stopped.  Out of curiosity and a desire to keep using Compiz, I went in and activated the nvidia driver version 173.  Upon rebooting, the flicker has stopped.

So, my hypothesis would be that one possible cause of the flicker is an incorrect driver being activated.  I thought my solution was worth posting even though I'm not sure that we have the same issue because it is relatively easy to check.

---

