---
title: "b 16.04 lts failures waking from suspend"
date: 2016-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ra7411 on 2016-05-23
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu][h=1][FONT=Times New Roman]I did a clean install on my desktop computer to 1604 several weeks ago. Using it everyday for those several weeks the suspend function worked fine until a few days ago when it would intermittently fail.  [/FONT]
[FONT=Times New Roman]On wake up, it just gives me a screen that I cannot enter the password into,  no little drum roll,  and the icon for accessing the reboot commands is also dead - I have to shut off power and then reboot.[/FONT]
[FONT=Times New Roman] I did some searches and found recommendations to  install kernel 4.4.8 - the kernel I had been using was 4.4.0.[/FONT]
[FONT=Times New Roman] I just got done installing the new kernel, I gave it some run-throughs and now the problem has worsened - the old kernel sometimes woke up from suspend - this new one has had 3 failures in a row.[/FONT]
[FONT=Times New Roman] How do I fix this? [/FONT][/h][h=1][/h][/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by ra7411 on 2016-05-23
I'm the OP:

On a whim, I changed the bootup order in BIOS by disabling the cd as the first, it now goes directly to the o/s HD.  I then ran 3 suspend/wake cycles and all 3 went ok. I'll be amazed if this is the end of problem, but I thought I'd pass it on as this seems to be a continuing Ub problem, and it might help others.

---

### Post by JoAnn_Donaldson on 2016-05-23
I am having the same problem. Thanks for the suggestion. I will give it a try.

---

### Post by ra7411 on 2016-05-26
I'm the OP.
I was right to be skeptical about the solution being skipping the cd as the first in the BIOS bootup - the first wakeup after a night of suspend failed. However, I next tried changing the screen turn off selection in Brightness & Lock from 1 hr to never - so far that has worked and I've had several succesfull wakeups.

I should be more specific about the problem I have been having. If I don't require a pw on wakeup, suspend works ok. When I changed the BIOS bootup to omit CD as first, it worked ok with a pw required on 3 quick trials, but then after 7 hrs on suspend, I again couldn't enter a pw. Now, changing the screen turn off selection in Brightness & Lock from 1 hr to never, it has been working ok with the pw required, so far.

If there's a common element in this bug, I can't see it.

---

