---
title: "8.04.2 Hardy starts, desktop folders read-only, windows blank, illegal blocks inode"
date: 2009-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by charonred on 2009-05-31
Just fired up my PC this morning and although the dekstop loads, things are not working right;

1 - firefox won't start, has some security problems (can't remember messages to clearly)

2 - open desktop folders, but all items in it are displaying locked symbol and are read only - cant' change as I don't have permissions, can't open files, just get blank windows

3 - tried to open synaptic, but only got a blank 'password' dialogue box, guessed it was that, so entered password; but when trying to apply re-install of firefox, synaptic locked up, had to force quit.

4 - rebooted PC and system wants to do randomdisk check, but part way through it fails and then I get black screen telling me fsck should be performed in maintenance mode with the root file system in read-only mode . got that happening with fsck commnad in root mode - located inodes with illegal blocks, prompted to clear illegal blocks, then said too many and prompted to clear inodes.

then went into efsck; pass 1 ok, and pass2 found more - prompted to clear 'xpti.dat' in home/johnno/.mozilla/fireox/7n8wlxsy.default as it had deleted/unused inode 11321347.

sitting there just with cursor blinking at the moment
gone through pass 3 checking directory connectivity, now inpass 4 checking reference counts.

what does all this mean, what could have gone wrong? I'm relatively new to Linux as such, have only done some basic terminal scripts  since installing/using Ubuntu, but this level of root user has me stumped as to what's going on.

This is my work PC and my business depends on this working; I'm hoping I won't loose anything/everything. 



(I'm using Win 7 RC1 on my older Skt A/Athlon XP computer to access the web and this forum - I abandoned Windows as my OS last July and have been using Hardy 8.04.02 ever since, only resorting to Win XP in VirtualBox for 2 applications that won't work in Wine.)

---

### Post by charonred on 2009-05-31
after about 40 minutes, pass5 screen now displaying message listing 'Block bitmap differences' (several listed) cursor still blinking ... I continue waitng ...

---

### Post by charonred on 2009-06-01
went out for a few hours for ride through the hills; when I got back it had frozen, so I rebooted it, it then sorted some stuff out and rebooted again, normal desktop is back with everything working - so what happened to cause all this ?

is this a sign of a failing drive ?

---

### Post by foska on 2009-09-13
Happened to me today after I updated the kernel to KDE 4.3.1 and still having issues.

---

### Post by charonred on 2009-09-13
I still have no idea what went wrong, but system has been running fine since. 

I'm using he standard Gnome desktop; I have KDE installed, but only for the extra applications that come with it (easier than picking through packages to install).

Also using Linux Kernel 2.6.24-23 as the later 2.6.24-24 introduced a black screen with text into what should have been my u-splash screen when booting.

But as I said, everything seems to be running fine for the past couple of months; would still like to know what happened though.

---

