---
title: "Screen Resolution Stuck at 800x600"
date: 2009-06-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tews on 2009-06-20
After booting this morning I found that I am stuck in 800x600 resolution.  I am running 8.04.  I have tried using the recovery mode and fixing the xconfig file (last option) I have tried uninstalling the Nvidia driver and reinstalling it with no luck .. I have tried running dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but 800x600 is the best I can get.

Any suggestions will be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-06-20
Post contents of **/etc/X11/xorg.conf**

---

### Post by Tews on 2009-06-20
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Disable"
EndSection

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-06-20
Try a screen section that looks something like (replace 1440 and 900 with your preferred resolution):
```
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes      "1440x900"
		Virtual	1440 900
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Then, reboot, and try to use the Display tool to change screen res.

---

### Post by Tews on 2009-06-20
Worked like a charm!!!!  Thanks a lot!

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-06-21
> **Tews said:**
> Worked like a charm!!!!  Thanks a lot!

No prob, enjoy ;)

---

