---
title: "10.10 - Dual Monitor results in 'greyed' windows"
date: 2011-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sw0rn on 2011-04-01
Hello all,

Currently, I am having a problem with dual monitors on my Acer Aspire running 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat). 
**The problem**: When I enable another monitor, all of my 'windows' are greyed out (like they do when a process has timed out and is unresponsive). 
Here is a screenshot documenting this; if it is unclear enough what is happening, I will gladly upload another screenshot.

[IMG]https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/_E5e3bFIktiQ/TZXwPo60wyI/AAAAAAAAAFI/CJUYH7jHwaQ/s912/screen0.png[/IMG]
[CENTER]*My host monitor is on the left, the guest on the right. You can see the left monitor has my panel and a window 'greyed' out.*
[/CENTER]


I cannot be entirely sure, but this started happening after I installed a MacOSX theme (if you can tell me how to figure out the name of the package I installed for this theme, I would greatly appreciate it -- that way, I can roll it back and see if it fixes my problem).

It would be wildly fantastic if I could get this fixed; I've had to run back to Windows several times for the duration of this issue *shudder* :(

Cheers!

---

### Post by yancheelo on 2011-04-02
Hi,
I have exactly the same issue: grayed windows when enabling dual screen mode with extended display.
I am using Ubuntu 10.10 running on an old Dell D620.
BR,
Y.

---

### Post by sw0rn on 2011-04-04
bump?

---

### Post by yancheelo on 2011-04-04
another point is: when both monitors are configured with the same vertical resolution the issue does not happen. It happens only when the 2 monitors are configured with different vertical resolution.
Y.

---

### Post by sw0rn on 2011-04-04
> **yancheelo said:**
> another point is: when both monitors are configured with the same vertical resolution the issue does not happen. It happens only when the 2 monitors are configured with different vertical resolution.
Y.

I do not have this problem.

---

### Post by drikxh on 2011-04-04
bump. i also have the same problem =[.

---

### Post by techE on 2011-05-07
I have exactly the same problem.  Why do windows grey when you setup dual monitors in extend mode?  Why does mirror or clone mode, in which both screens display the same image, work perfectly fine?

---

### Post by paula_ke on 2011-05-08
I have exactly the same problem.  If the wiindows are set the same size and mirrored all is fine.  choose to not have them the same but the second monitor as an extension I get the grayed result.  Does anyone have any idea how to fix this?

btw,  I have a second system with nvidia and it is working fine.  Also, when I boot windows on the problem system, windows works fine with the extended screen.  This has got to be a configuration issue.

I just spend half a day upgrading to Natty and the problem is still there.

---

### Post by DJ_Cripple on 2011-05-08
I have a slightly different, but similar sounding problem:

single and duplicate monitors work fine, but on extended desktop, I get a start menu across the top of my second monitor, the mouse can go into it fine... but trying to drag any windows across to it makes them disappear. weird.

rebooting and logging in with  'classic mode' (ie, not Unity) fixes the problem.

---

### Post by Gianko92 on 2011-05-28
> **sw0rn said:**
> Hello all,

Currently, I am having a problem with dual monitors on my Acer Aspire running 10.10 (Maverick Meerkat). 
**The problem**: When I enable another monitor, all of my 'windows' are greyed out (like they do when a process has timed out and is unresponsive). 
Here is a screenshot documenting this; if it is unclear enough what is happening, I will gladly upload another screenshot.

[IMG]https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/_E5e3bFIktiQ/TZXwPo60wyI/AAAAAAAAAFI/CJUYH7jHwaQ/s912/screen0.png[/IMG]
[CENTER]*My host monitor is on the left, the guest on the right. You can see the left monitor has my panel and a window 'greyed' out.*
[/CENTER]


I cannot be entirely sure, but this started happening after I installed a MacOSX theme (if you can tell me how to figure out the name of the package I installed for this theme, I would greatly appreciate it -- that way, I can roll it back and see if it fixes my problem).

It would be wildly fantastic if I could get this fixed; I've had to run back to Windows several times for the duration of this issue *shudder* :(

Cheers!

Hi,
i'm using the same configuration on sony vaio VPCW11S1E.
I tested all possible combinations with my hardware (Samsung LCD 40''), and i found that:
1. dual monitor works if you set resolution on both screens on 1024x768 or lower. (no greyed windows)
2. Dual monitor works if you set resolution higher than 1024x768 on one screen (LCD or Laptop), while keeping resolution lower than 800x600 on the other one (640x480 or less).

Any idea?
thank you

---

