---
title: "9.04 running very slow on laptop"
date: 2010-07-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dharmaj on 2010-07-24
I am using Ubuntu 9.04 32 bit version

The problem is that the computer(laptop) is running generally slow. Sometimes, the typing response gets slowed down. Sometimes, the programs do not respond quickly. The problem seems to increase with the increase in *on-time*.


System:
IBM Thinkpad : R60
CPU Intel Core Duo T2300 1.66 Ghz
RAM 512 MB
Intel Graphics card

I occasionally use virtualbox OSE, could that be important ?

Also, the 'System Monitor' shows ~20% cpu usage which seems ok, but the memory usage is 242.5MB out of 488 (49.4%), when only one program (firefox with only one tab) is running from the user side.

The highest memory usage  breakup is as under (only firefox and system monitor running from my side):
Firefox: 70 MB
Xorg: 37 MB
Compiz.Real: 13 MB
Nautilus: 7 MB

{Is this RAM usage normal ?}

I did not have these problems from the start. My install is around one year old, and the system seems to be slowing through the months.

No problems with audio/video which are mentioned in some related threads.

Can anyone please suggest what could be wrong ? It would be preferable if the problem can be corrected without reinstallation.

Thanks.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-07-24
Turning compiz off might help. That's probably what taxes the CPU so much. The memory usage you posted is normal for Ubuntu, but I don't think the total of 512MB of RAM is enough for VirtualBox.

---

