---
title: ".bashrc problem"
date: 2008-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by weemstra on 2008-04-20
Hello,

I am quite new to ubuntu (I have the gutsy gibbon version), but have some problems,
with my .bashrc 
After installing Ubuntu, I sourced my .bashrc, but for some reason it doesnt work ans when 
I use my Konsole now, about 20 lines of my .bashrc file are simply printed in my konsole after executing the commans, so for example:


[I]
PS1=[033[01ls
Amy Winehouse  Bliss.bmp  Desktop  Documents  Examples  Music  Pictures  Public  Templates  Videos
cat: /etc/debian_chroot: No such file or directory
kees@kees-desktop:~$


# check the window size after each command and, if necessary,
# update the values of LINES and COLUMNS.
shopt -s checkwinsize

# make less more friendly for non-text input files, see lesspipe(1)
[ -x /usr/bin/lesspipe ] && eval "export LESSOPEN="| /usr/bin/lesspipe %s";
export LESSCLOSE="/usr/bin/lesspipe %s %s";"

# set variable identifying the chroot you work in (used in the prompt below)
if [ -z "" ] && [ -r /etc/debian_chroot ]; then
    debian_chroot=
fi

# set a fancy prompt (non-color, unless we know we "want" color)
case "xterm" in
xterm-color)
    PS1=[033[01                                            [/I]

Furhtermore, my prompt is PS1=[033]01, which makes no sense to me.....
Anybody an idea, what the problem might be?

thanks in advance,

Kees

---

### Post by pointone on 2008-04-20
Please post your actual bashrc file.

---

### Post by weemstra on 2008-04-20
The following text is my .bashrc 
Thank you in advance!



#~/.bashrc: executed by bash(1) for non-login shells.
# see /usr/share/doc/bash/examples/startup-files (in the package bash-doc)
# for examples

# If not running interactively, don't do anything
[ -z "$PS1" ] && return

# don't put duplicate lines in the history. See bash(1) for more options
export HISTCONTROL=ignoredups
# ... and ignore same sucessive entries.
export HISTCONTROL=ignoreboth
# show pwd in konsole title
export PS1=$PS1"\[\e]0;\H:\w\a\]"' 

# check the window size after each command and, if necessary,
# update the values of LINES and COLUMNS.
shopt -s checkwinsize

# make less more friendly for non-text input files, see lesspipe(1)
[ -x /usr/bin/lesspipe ] && eval "$(lesspipe)"

# set variable identifying the chroot you work in (used in the prompt below)
if [ -z "$debian_chroot" ] && [ -r /etc/debian_chroot ]; then
    debian_chroot=$(cat /etc/debian_chroot)
fi

# set a fancy prompt (non-color, unless we know we "want" color)
case "$TERM" in
xterm-color)
    PS1='${debian_chroot:+($debian_chroot)}\[\033[01;32m\]\u@\h\[\033[00m\]:\[\033[01;34m\]\w\[\033[00m\]\$ '
    ;;
*)
    PS1='${debian_chroot:+($debian_chroot)}\u@\h:\w\$ '
    ;;
esac

# Comment in the above and uncomment this below for a color prompt
#PS1='${debian_chroot:+($debian_chroot)}\[\033[01;32m\]\u@\h\[\033[00m\]:\[\033[01;34m\]\w\[\033[00m\]\$ '

# If this is an xterm set the title to user@host:dir
case "$TERM" in
xterm*|rxvt*)
    PROMPT_COMMAND='echo -ne "\033]0;${USER}@${HOSTNAME}: ${PWD/$HOME/~}\007"'
    ;;
*)
    ;;
esac

# Alias definitions.
# You may want to put all your additions into a separate file like
# ~/.bash_aliases, instead of adding them here directly.
# See /usr/share/doc/bash-doc/examples in the bash-doc package.

#if [ -f ~/.bash_aliases ]; then
#    . ~/.bash_aliases
#fi

# enable color support of ls and also add handy aliases
if [ "$TERM" != "dumb" ]; then
    eval "`dircolors -b`"
    alias ls='ls --color=auto'
    alias dir='ls --color=auto --format=vertical'
    alias vdir='ls --color=auto --format=long'
fi

# some more ls aliases
#alias ll='ls -l'
#alias la='ls -A'
#alias l='ls -CF'

# enable programmable completion features (you don't need to enable
# this, if it's already enabled in /etc/bash.bashrc and /etc/profile
# sources /etc/bash.bashrc).
if [ -f /etc/bash_completion ]; then
    . /etc/bash_completion
fi

---

### Post by pointone on 2008-04-21
This line:

```
export PS1=$PS1"\[\e]0;\H:\w\a\]"'
```

Is likely causing your problems. Try commenting it out and see if that solves the problem.

---

### Post by weemstra on 2008-04-22
Thank you very much!
This was indeed the problem!
It works properly now!

---

