---
title: "I lost my writting permission"
date: 2007-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rodrigo666 on 2007-05-05
Greetings,

Recently, I've got some weird problem, when I log onto the system, I have write permission over my mounted partitions on the /media directory.

But, after some minutes of use, when I try to do some operation or action involving it, I got the message that I don't have write access over that place.

The strange thing is that I can write on my home directory normally.

What could be causing this? Looks like a virus!

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-05
What filesystem that you are having a problem writing to in /media?  And by the way, you should always have permission writing to your own $HOME directory.  If not, you would have a serious problem there.

---

### Post by rodrigo666 on 2007-05-06
The Filesystem is a fat32.

I have a NTFS and two Fat32.

I've just noticed that the partitions that I can't write (after a few moments of log onto the system) is just one of my fat32.

I really don't know what might be causing that, maybe it's my qBittorrent program, because it can download and write files there, but that would be something really odd, don't you think?

I can write normally in my NTFS partition and my other HD, witch is the second Fat32 I mentioned.

I hope to clear with my English, I'm a bit tired and English is my second language, thanks for your help and sorry for the inconvenience.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-06
Can you post the output of these commands from a terminal, pointing to which partition is giving you trouble?

```
cat /etc/fstab
mount
df -h
```

---

### Post by rodrigo666 on 2007-05-06
Okay, here we go (my problematic partitions is mounted at /media/hda2/:

> rodrigo@ubuntu64:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda3
UUID=efce35ac-a82c-4b13-be2e-fa6c4aea2cf7 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hda1
# /dev/hda2
# /dev/hdb1
# /dev/hda4
UUID=3b24dae1-3834-4755-bfaf-83a942041fc5 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/hdd        /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/           /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hda2   /media/hda2   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hdb1   /media/hdb1   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions


> rodrigo@ubuntu64:~$ mount
/dev/hda3 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
procbususb on /proc/bus/usb type usbfs (rw)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.20-15-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
/dev/hda2 on /media/hda2 type vfat (rw,iocharset=utf8,umask=000)
/dev/hdb1 on /media/hdb1 type vfat (rw,iocharset=utf8,umask=000)
/dev/hda1 on /media/hda1 type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,noatime,allow_other,blksize=4096)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw)
/dev/hdc on /media/cdrom0 type iso9660 (ro,noexec,nosuid,nodev,user=rodrigo)

> rodrigo@ubuntu64:~$ df -h
Sist. Arq.            Tam   Usad Disp  Uso% Montado em
/dev/hda3              19G   14G  4,2G  77% /
varrun                252M  256K  252M   1% /var/run
varlock               252M     0  252M   0% /var/lock
procbususb            252M  108K  252M   1% /proc/bus/usb
udev                  252M  108K  252M   1% /dev
devshm                252M     0  252M   0% /dev/shm
lrm                   252M   33M  219M  14% /lib/modules/2.6.20-15-generic/volatile
/dev/hda2             110G  109G  1,3G  99% /media/hda2
/dev/hdb1              75G   71G  4,5G  94% /media/hdb1
/dev/hda1              20G   18G  2,4G  89% /media/hda1
/dev/hdc              665M  665M     0 100% /media/cdrom0

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-06
You are running out of space on /dev/hda2.

```
[COLOR="Red"]/dev/hda2 110G 109G 1,3G 99% /media/hda2[/COLOR]
```

---

### Post by rodrigo666 on 2007-05-07
That's still something really odd because of two reasons:

1- When I browse that partition with Nautilus, it displays around 1.7 gb of free space;

2- Even if I was running out of space, I would still be allowed to delete some files, but in the actual circumstances, I can't do that.

I'm beginning to think that this problem o'mine has something to do with qBittorrent, because it seems to show off when I execute that program.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-07
Why don't you try to delete something in /media/hda2 to free up more space to see if the problem's still there?

---

### Post by rodrigo666 on 2007-05-07
That's exactly what I want to do, but since I don't have write permission (even if I go there with a "sudo nautilus") I can't delete any single file.

See what kind of trap am I?

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-07
Don't you have Windows on that machine, dualbooting?  If you do, try to remove some files on /dev/hda2 from Windows.

---

### Post by rodrigo666 on 2007-05-07
Yeah, I figured that out, I mean, already did it.

But I will check if I get write permission again only when get home, in about two hours, since I'm at work now.

Thanks for your time, but please, don't give up on me, wait for my last reply soon.

---

### Post by rodrigo666 on 2007-05-07
Okay, it's official, somehow, qBittorrent, a excellent Bittorrent client, is causing me this bug.

I finally figured that out by using my Ubuntu about 30m and I never lost my writing permissions.

I must add that I did loaded Windows and deleted some files, getting around 4 gb of free space on that partition.

Then, when I loaded qBittorrent, about a 5 minutes latter, I've lost my writing permissions.

I must also add that this partition is where qBittorrent download my files.

There is something I can do to solve this and don't involve pick another bittorrent client?

---

