---
title: "12.04 desktop crashing"
date: 2012-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mr5o1 on 2012-05-12
Hi All, 

Since installing 12.04 my machine is crashing pretty regularly. 
[LIST]
[*]It doesn't crash when I do anything in particular - just at odd times
[*]I can move the mouse pointer, but the desktop is unresponsive to clicks, everything stops (browser loading icon's freeze, video freezes, etc) If I'm watching a video I can still hear the audio playing
[*]I can switch to another terminal and things seem to work fine.
[/LIST]

When I first noticed this happening after the upgrade, I did a clean install (kept old home partition) but the same thing is happening.

So my question is... what logs should I be looking at to narrow down the problem?

Thanks in advance,
Levi

---

### Post by Metaphyzikal on 2012-05-12
I have the same problem...and I tried installing the upgrade package suggested for 12.04, and it stalled and crashed some way through. IT's even worse since that happened. I was hoping to solve the crash  problem with the upgrades...but yeah, I can barely use the OS.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-05-12
What hardware do you have, particularly the graphic card?

---

### Post by Mr5o1 on 2012-05-12
graphics card is:
ATI Mobility Radeon™ X2300

full spec sheet here:
[http://www.sony.com.au/product/vgn-cr35g?tabName=specifications](http://www.sony.com.au/product/vgn-cr35g?tabName=specifications)

thanks for your help.

---

### Post by nipunshakya on 2012-05-12
> **Mr5o1 said:**
> 
So my question is... what logs should I be looking at to narrow down the problem?
  Similar problem was with me... i handled it by not using too many apps at the same time....
If i copy files from one partition to another, i was sure that screen would freeze and slow down the machine, resulting it to heat up... so while copying, i just let files to be copied, making sure i use less apps at that moment...

Similarly, u can find other glitches and fixes yourself as well.....

Happy Linuxing

---

### Post by Mr5o1 on 2012-05-12
Thanks for your help.

> **WinuxUser said:**
> 
i handled it by not using too many apps at the same time....

u can find other glitches and fixes yourself as well.....


I'm not certain that "not using too many apps" can really be called a 'fix' - I'd like to find something a little more concrete.

---

### Post by Mr5o1 on 2012-05-12
I just checked ~/.xsession-errors and the last two lines are:

```
[1886:1886:11201681395:ERROR:tab_strip_gtk.cc(1265)] Not implemented reached in virtual void TabStripGtk::StopAllHighlighting()

(exe:5145): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead
```

my google-fu turns up two seperate bugs for each of those lines.. looks like it's flash related. Both bugs have been around for a year or more, it appears the workaround is to not use chromium, although the problem sometimes pops up in firefox.

---

