---
title: "Power consumption."
date: 2013-12-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cookiemonster09 on 2013-12-21
Just a very general question.I own HP ProBook4530s laptop. I have been going through some of the specifications that the laptop and its components have and stumbled across something I thought was very odd. When examining power consumption off a laptop as a whole it said that it consumes 10.44W in "normal operation", while the procesor alone i5-2410M consumes 35W during maximum strain.
 How come the power usage of processor alone is so much higher than the power usage of a whole laptop? 
I am aware that one represents power consumption during max.strain and the other represents power consumption during average strain, but the difference just seems mind-blowing. What am I missing here?
Keep in mind that this is the version of laptop that has dedicated graphics card.
Here is where I got my data:
[http://ark.intel.com/products/52224](http://ark.intel.com/products/52224)   -power consumption for processor, it is listed under "Max TDP".
[http://h18004.www1.hp.com/products/quickspecs/13948_na/13948_na.pdf](http://h18004.www1.hp.com/products/quickspecs/13948_na/13948_na.pdf)  -power consumption for laptop, it's on _page 41._

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-12-21
You could be confusing two different things that are measured in Watts.

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermal_design_power](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thermal_design_power)

> The thermal design power (TDP), sometimes called thermal design point, refers to the maximum amount of heat generated by the CPU, which the cooling system in a computer is required to dissapate

Regards.

---

### Post by cookiemonster09 on 2013-12-21
I read the article but it pointed me to a following conclusion: if the processor provides the cooling system with enough heat that it has to dissapate that heat with 35W of power, than the CPU must be consuming even more power than 35W in order to do its thing, because heat is just  a side effect of processor doing calculations. 
If we could make an analogy between standard incandesent light bulb and processor: the point of light bulb is to glow but because it derives its light from the electric resistance aka heat, than only small part of power consumption is usefull-light and much more power is used to heat the filament. In the case of our processor, it seems to me that the TDP is the same as heat in light bulb and usefull calculations are the same as light in light bulb. Therefore, if TDP - heat makes up 35W of power, than usefull calculations must be an additional something of Watts. Total consumption > 35W.
Sooo confused right now...

---

### Post by PaulBx on 2013-12-22
No. The stuff you get out of a computer, calculations, is not like light from a light bulb. It has no inherent energy. All the power going into the computer eventually turns into heat. 35W is all there is. The processor gets that by running a fast clock (it is switching states that causes most power draw in solid state elements). When it is loafing the clock is running much slower and drawing much less power. Few computers run at full speed for very long these days. The power disparity between the two conditions is what it is; why worry about it?

BTW what you get out of a light bulb, heat or light - it's all electromagnetic radiation...

---

### Post by efflandt on 2013-12-22
I don't think page 41 of those HP docs are power consumption of the laptop, it is probably power loss and heat dissipation of the power supply, which would be less when the laptop is suspended or off, since it is likely a switching psu that does not have to dissipate power not being used. If you have discrete graphics why would you have a 90 watt psu if the computer itself only used 10.44 watts (and why would it vary by AC input voltage)? I have a new i7-4700 gaming laptop with 120 watt psu and it is obvious that uses much more power while gaming with nvidia graphics (laptop fan speeds up to get rid of much more heat) than when idling or web surfing with Intel graphics. Both the cpu and gpu slow to a lower speed using less energy when not doing much.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-12-22
I have a ProBook 4530s too, but without the dedicated graphics, and just did a few experiments. When trying to minimise power (but without spinning down the drive) it consumes 10.1W. Doing some number crunching increases this to 35W, setting the screen brightness to maximum adds another 3W. The fan consumes about 1W. These numbers are based on the voltage and current from the battery, as reported by /proc/acpi/battery/BAT0/state. Of course, they could be slightly off. The power supply is rated for 65W, allowing it to charge the battery whilst crunching numbers. Sometimes I have it crunch numbers for minutes or even hours on end, and then it appears that the cooling isn't really adequate.

BTW, what you get out of a light bulb, it's all particles. Mostly photons, but some phonons too, carrying away energy through vibrating atoms. The big difference with LEDs is that they get rid of most of their heat throught phonons, so despite their higher efficiency they are at a bigger risk of overheating than incandescent bulbs.

---

