---
title: "14.04 &amp; Thunderbird"
date: 2014-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jim31 on 2014-05-14
I have a laptop with 14.04 32bit installed as an upgrade & no problems in Thunderbird.  

On the other laptop, I have an SSD and installed 14.04 64bit from DVD.  Thunderbird receives and send email, but I can't delete any email.  The delete key does nothing, clicking on the Delete button does nothing and moving to Trash doesn't work.

Any suggestions?

jn

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-05-14
I have 2 Ubuntu 14.04 installations (1 32 bit and the other 64 bit) both running ThunderBird 24.5.0
I'm acessing my mail using imap and I've not had the situation you've described.

Perhaps completey purging TB from the 64 bit install (also .thunderbird which will remove all email and config files) and then reinstalling.

Please keep us posted and once resolved mark thread as solved

---

### Post by jim31 on 2014-05-15
I did a sudo apt-get purge thunderbird & sudo apt-get purge .thunderbird.

When I reinstall, and run thunderbird it comes up with the old configuration and still unable to delete messages.

I'm obviously missing something.  Any suggestions?

Thanks for the help.

jn

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-05-15
Please navigate to the hidden folder .thunderbird - as long as you have your email on the other computer you can delete this folder

---

### Post by jim31 on 2014-05-16
That did the trick.  Thanks for your help.

How do I mark the thread "Solved"?

jn

---

### Post by pfeiffep on 2014-05-17
I'm glad you've solved the problem ... [how to mark thread solved]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads")

---

