---
title: "ISP change blocks nameserver access"
date: 2011-01-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bowserdog on 2011-01-29
I just switched ISPs from a local vendor to Wild Blue.  All my Windows boxes adopted automatically.  My Ubuntu 10.10 workstation can find no sites, period.  My old resolv.conf said:

[COLOR=SeaGreen]# Generated by NetworkManager
domain sdc.org  (<- my old local ISP)
search sdc.org  (<- my old local ISP)
nameserver 192.168.0.1 (<- *correct* IP V4 address for my router's front end)[/COLOR]

This has not changed, and I guess my IP stack is searching for sdc.org domain addresses on WildBlue.net, which don't exist there.  After many hours trying to speak with WildBlue Tech Support people, I've decided that domain search questions are beyond their ability to comprehend or discuss.  If I could ascertain the domain(s) to search I'd just edit the silly file.

Has anyone else connected with Ubuntu 10.10 on WildBlue?

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2011-01-29
Change those two instances of "sdc.org" in your resolv.conf file to "WildBlue.net" and see whether that makes any difference.

Actually, since Network Manager will rewrite the file each time it starts, you need to change the corresponding entries in Network Manager's dialogs. Note that Ubuntu is case sensitive, so you may need to experiment with the capitalization or lack thereof...

---

### Post by Bowserdog on 2011-01-30
Catch-22 problem:  If I'm correct, I need to use gnome-network-admin to alter the Network Manager's dialogs in order to get my resolv.conf into usable shape.  The trouble here is the gnome-network-admin is not installed, but to obtain it I first need to get my Internet connectivity working.

Holy guano piles Batman: What do I do now?

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-30
> Holy guano piles Batman: What do I do now?

You could tell us a bit more about your connection: 
- Wired or wireless?
- Which interface? **eth0, wlan0** etc.

Meanwhile, if all else fails, resort to the command line:

Here, I am assuming an ethernet cable on **eth0**

Uninstall Network Mangler, it messes up too much.

```
gksudo /etc/network/interfaces
```

Make it look like this:

```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

auto eth0 
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```

Reboot. You should be connected. Take it from there.

**wicd** is IMHO a better "network manager" than ubuntu's choice, but the command line "just works".

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2011-01-30
Here's how I disable Network Manager without having to remove it:```
sudo touch /etc/default/NetworkManager
sudo touch /etc/default/NetworkManagerDispatcher
echo "exit" | sudo tee -a /etc/default/NetworkManager
echo "exit" | sudo tee -a /etc/default/NetworkManagerDispatcher

```Those last two lines have to pipe the echo to "tee" because of the way that sudo works. After making these changes, fix your /etc/network/interfaces file as suggested, and then reboot.

---

### Post by Bowserdog on 2011-01-30
Thanks so much.  This issue is now solved.  Now if only I could figure how to change the thread caption to "solved" from *within* this thread I'd love to do it!  I figure that since threads usually need to be posted BEFORE they are solved, there *must* be a way!

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2011-01-30
At the top of each page of the thread is a link "Thread Tools" in red. Click that and you'll see the "mark as solved" choice. Click it and you're done!

---

