---
title: "16.10 (Yakkety Yak) Known bugs and work-a-rounds"
date: 2016-10-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-10-15
For me, this dev cycle was pretty boring, except for occasional lockups, that were fixed with the release of the 4.8 kernel.

The big thing this time around, is the Unity 8 preview, it's pretty early in development, so it's still pretty buggy. I wasn't able to get a working desktop until the final release ISO, so I haven't really had much of a chance to squash any bugs, but there are enough to go around for everyone.

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-10-15
One bug for example is a logic bug or wish list bug with the Libertine container creation process. Although there is a spinning indicator while the container is being created , it sometimes can take a little while for the container to be created .. sometimes it can best several minutes (like 10mins+) so a user may think there is something wrong and abort, log-off or quit.

There are also some other instructional bugs where there are no hints, etc.. of how to actually get to the desktop apps icon and that you have to run your  apps that you have installed in a particular container.

Also .. if a user installs a terminal app like xterm in a container and then installs :
```

sudo apt-get install mesa-utils
sudo apt-get install inxi
sudo apt-get install htop

```
those programs will only work in that container!! They will not work across the board , ie; you need to install those utils in the terminal.click in the scopes session to run them and glxgears will not run in terminal.click app but will run from xterm  that has been installed in a container so there is a whole new logic and preceedure and learning curve here.

Regards..

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2016-10-15
16.10 has royally screwed up avahi / mDNS

Can't access an avahi announcement from another machine. Can't even ping by it like this:
```
ping hostname.local
```
Turns out a line in /etc/nsswitch.conf is backwards.

It reads like this:
> hosts:          files [COLOR=#006400]resolve [!UNAVAIL=return][/COLOR] [COLOR=#a52a2a]mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return][/COLOR] dns
Works way better when you reverse it:
> hosts:          files [COLOR=#a52a2a]mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return][/COLOR] [COLOR=#006400]resolve [!UNAVAIL=return][/COLOR]  dns

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2016-10-16
And another thing about mDNS / Avahi. Printing.

Back in the good old days of 16.04 the system automatically located and made usable network printers because of a package called cups-browsed:
> This package provides cups-browsed, a daemon which browses the Bonjour
broadcasts of shared remote CUPS printers and makes the printers
available locally, replacing the CUPS broadcasting/browsing which was
dropped in CUPS 1.6.x. This way the old behavior of having the remote
printers available automatically is now re-implemented with Bonjour.
Bonjour is Apple-speak for Avahi / mDNS. And avahi-daemon is running just fine thank you very much.

With nsswitch.conf in it's default state this is what I get when I launch "Printers":
[ATTACH=CONFIG]271653[/ATTACH]
With the change to nsswitch I posted previously this is what I get now:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]271654[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by zajcek on 2016-10-17
**DNS problems with vpnc and Network Manager**

If you are using **vpnc** to connect to VPN and using **Network Manager** to manage your network
```
sudo apt install vpnc
sudo vpnc-connect vpnserver
```

After succesful connection with **vpnc** nslookup works fine but ping not.

```
zajc@comp:~$ nslookup computer
Server:        127.0.1.1
Address:    127.0.1.1#53


Name:   computer
Address: 172.16.1.150
```
```
zajc@comp:~$ ping computer
ping: computer: Name or service not known
```

**The workaround** is to disable the local forwarding nameserver by commenting out the line "dns=dnsmasq" in /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf.
```
[main]plugins=ifupdown,keyfile,ofono
#dns=dnsmasq


[ifupdown]
managed=false

```

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-10-17
This not a support thread, if you've run into a problem, and found a way to fix it, post it here.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2016-10-25
The feature of creating a new document by right clicking is missing from Nautilus's context menu in Ubuntu 16.10 [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1632027](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1632027)

Workaround: create an empty txt file (say with geditl) and then place it in ~/Templates (create it if it doesn't exist), the option of creating a new document will show up in the context menu.

---

### Post by HereInOz on 2016-11-08
I have noticed a couple of drivers missing from 16.10, namely the AMD HD7500/7600M video chip (maximum resolution 1024 x 768) and the Huawei E153 3g USB modem (just doesn't work).  

Both worked in 16.04.  I can't find a workaround except to return to 16.04.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-11-19
> **HereInOz said:**
> I have noticed a couple of drivers missing from 16.10, namely the AMD HD7500/7600M video chip (maximum resolution 1024 x 768) and the Huawei E153 3g USB modem (just doesn't work).  

Both worked in 16.04.  I can't find a workaround except to return to 16.04.

Please see post #6, if you don't have a work-around, don't post in this thread.

---

### Post by mblythe on 2016-11-21
HI all,  I just updated my system from 15.10 to 16.10, and I've accumulated a list of the problems I hit and how I worked around them [here]("http://www.mjblythe.com/hacks/2016/11/issues-upgrading-from-ubuntu-15-10-to-16-10-via-16-04/").

The biggest issue I had, by far, was with DNS.  The move to systemd-resolved threw me for a loop.  I ended up dumping NetworkManager and switching to systemd-networkd to handle my connections, this way the DNS servers from DHCP would be passed along to systemd-resolved and put into /etc/resolv.conf. (Details about how to do this [here]("http://www.mjblythe.com/hacks/2016/11/issues-upgrading-from-ubuntu-15-10-to-16-10-via-16-04/#Solution").)

Furthermore, systemd-resolved seems to have a problem resolving "local" hostnames.  That is, unqualified names that are served by the DNS server in my wireless router that return IP addresses on the local subnet (I don't mean mdns!).  I think this is a bug in systemd-resolved, so I removed "resolve" from /etc/nsswitch.conf, so it will always fall back to "dns".  This probably leaves me open to the sorts of things that DNSSEC is supposed to protect me from, though.

---

