---
title: "11.10 Graphics problem"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gmng24 on 2012-04-27
I'm very new to Linux operating systems in general. I had Vista on my laptop before I completely destroyed it. I tried to re-install Vista but nothing would work. So I tried Ubuntu, but I kept getting glitchy screens so I tried Lubuntu. It was working fine for a couple days but since yesterday I've been getting the same problem I've had with Ubuntu. It tends to start at the address bar and task bar but then it "spreads" to the rest of the screen until all I get is what's in the screenshots. I have no idea what's wrong or how to fix it, I was hoping someone here would know whats wrong and how I can fix it.
My laptop is a Gateway LT31 netbook and it was running Vista Home basic 32bit. (Not sure about anything else.)
Thanks anyone in advance for your help!

Screenshots of the glitchy screens:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/QSVxd.png[/IMG]
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/DuGji.png[/IMG]
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/mSFCs.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by marinara on 2012-04-27
i think it's bad drivers, but that's only a guess

---

### Post by gmng24 on 2012-04-28
> **marinara said:**
> i think it's bad drivers, but that's only a guess
How would I fix it?

---

### Post by gmng24 on 2012-04-28
Can anyone help me?

---

### Post by gmng24 on 2012-04-28
I came here to get help, but as I see all the views this thread is getting it's depressing knowing no one can or wants to help. 

How would I fix this if the driver is the problem?
Do I have to take it to a store to get new hardware or is it something I can download?
This laptop hasn't been working right for a month, **I just want it to work!** So I'm asking anyone here to help me. ](*,)

---

### Post by MonkeyPaw on 2012-04-28
This seems like a GPU issue for me. It could be drivers, it could be a hardware issue. If you are having no luck installing any OS without problems, then I think your hardware is either overheating or failing. Having googled the specs of your notebook, it's running some older hardware. Have you ever tried to blow the dust out of it? Does it get really hot? If these problems happen a few minutes after a cold boot with consistency, then it just might be hardware problems.

---

### Post by Singularity42 on 2012-05-28
I have the exact same laptop. It's due to the the rs690 graphics not agreeing with sideport memory addressing if I remember correctly. You can disable kernel mode setting with a grub option, which you can find many posts in these forums on, this however ruins your 3d acceleration. However, there is a different bios that you can load which allows you to disable sideport addressing under north bridge options.

Attached is the bios file that I flashed with, I encourage you to have a google to see that I'm not sending you malware.

If you feel like doing me a favour back, if you upgrade to 12.04 pm me if your standby works, I'm having trouble with that myself.

---

