---
title: "8.10 - Webcam no longer works with Skype"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Raval on 2008-11-02
Just upgraded to Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex and my Logitech Quickcam Communicate STX
no longer works with Skype 2.0.0.72.

The webcam still works with aMSN and Cheese its shows up in all three apps as USB Camera (046d:08d7) (/dev/Video0). 

I believe it use to show up by name before.

---

### Post by eldragon on 2008-11-02
> **Raval said:**
> Just upgraded to Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex and my Logitech Quickcam Communicate STX
no longer works with Skype 2.0.0.72.

The webcam still works with aMSN and Cheese its shows up in all three apps as USB Camera (046d:08d7) (/dev/Video0). 

I believe it use to show up by name before.

check this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=945803](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=945803)

:D

---

### Post by Anbog on 2008-11-28
The LD_PRELOAD solution doesn't seem to be working for me.. Could video drivers have something to do with it? I'm on a X1300 powered notebook using the restricted drivers.

As for the initial poster, the problem seems only to affect Skype, as I can use my webcam (an old Logitech QuickCam Messenger) with camorama and cheese (didn't try aMSN). I don't get the "green image" problem - I get no image at all when testing from the Skype options. The cam is seen as /dev/Video0 in the options though. If I make a Skype call, I can still receive video from other people.

Another piece of information is I downloaded a .deb from skype.com, instead of using a repository, if that could have anything to do with it..

I'm still fairly new to linux, so excuse me if I'm just being dumb!

---

