---
title: "10.04 install frustration"
date: 2010-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ken poy on 2010-11-20
my name is ken and i have been a linux/ubuntu user for about 6 months.
fortunately i downloaded rel 9.10 and have been generally satisfied.  now rel 10.04 is a 
different story.  i downloaded both the alternate and normal iso.  i also ordered a cd from
on-disk.  i have the blank screen graphics problem.  i have a dell inspiron 1501 laptop.
i found a circumvention to edit grub so i can boot the iso.  i have tried several installs with the cd being successful and i was able to boot twice.  now i can no longer boot 10.04
so back to 9.10.  now i am not a linux guru and i am tired of doing installs.  now my question.  does anybody have help for me??  i so give me a good explanation.
otherwise to keep current i my need to investigate another distribution.  any suggestions
about that??

---

### Post by gandaran on 2010-11-20
> **ken poy said:**
> my name is ken and i have been a linux/ubuntu user for about 6 months.
fortunately i downloaded rel 9.10 and have been generally satisfied.  now rel 10.04 is a 
different story.  i downloaded both the alternate and normal iso.  i also ordered a cd from
on-disk.  i have the blank screen graphics problem.  i have a dell inspiron 1501 laptop.
i found a circumvention to edit grub so i can boot the iso.  i have tried several installs with the cd being successful and i was able to boot twice.  now i can no longer boot 10.04
so back to 9.10.  now i am not a linux guru and i am tired of doing installs.  now my question.  does anybody have help for me??  i so give me a good explanation.
otherwise to keep current i my need to investigate another distribution.  any suggestions
about that??
well, we need more information like computer hardware specs, what video card driver installed, dual boot windows or just ubuntu, any information on what you have done so far is very important only then we can help.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-11-20
As gandaran has already mentioned, we need more information please.

If you are experiencing blank screen issues, it is most likely a graphics card issue.

We need to know the specifications for RAM and graphics card.

Thanks.

---

### Post by ken poy on 2010-11-20
Hi  this the info that i have found.  my dell laptop inspiron 1501 specs.

Processor   AMD ATHLON 64 x 2  TK-55   (1.8 GHZ/512KB)

Memory  1GB  533MHZ  DDR2  2DIMM

Hard Drive  80GB  SATA 9.5MM

the above is from the dell manual

i searched and found the Video Card is ATI IGP Xpress 1150  (i think)

i am running just Ubuntu  no other operating system.

i have not installed any drivers.
     in system/admin/Hardware Drivers i only find 2 wireless drivers.
     not sure if i need to download to add to the list?? do not know where the list exists. 

i have installed   9.10  which seems to work  and  10.04  from a CD and from a USB
and they do not work.  10.04 hangs at boot with a blank screen maybe some vertical
colored lines.  i do hear the Ubuntu drums but screen never changes.  it seems there
is hard drive activity while it is hung.

hope this answers some of your questions.    thanks   ken

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-20
> 10.04 hangs at boot with a blank screen maybe some vertical
colored lines. i do hear the Ubuntu drums but screen never changes. it seems there
is hard drive activity while it is hung.

Press any key as soon as you get past the Bios screen and the PC starts booting the CD/USB and you'll see a menu. Press F6, select nomodeset (x will appear beside it), press Esc and hit Try Ubuntu. Can you get to the desktop now?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCDBootOptions)

If yes, install Ubuntu and you might need to do that once again when you boot for the first time from your hard disk.

You'll get the instructions for that later by any member when we know that it works for you :-)

Good Luck!

---

### Post by ken poy on 2010-11-20
hi  thanks for the update.  i have followed that suggestion and hit F6  when the 2 characters appear at the bottom of the screen. i then modify the GRUB line putting nomodeset in place of splash and something else (can't remember).  this is the only way the CD or USB ISO will boot.  i then install 10.04.
now when i boot from the hard drive i do not get the 2 characters at the bottom of the screen.  i do not see Grub loading.  i hit space bar also F6 also ESC and maybe other 
keys i've tried a lot on boots (Plural) and i never get the GRUB command so i can
modify it???
also there was a suggestion of once booted enable the video driver  but i am not sure how
if i ever get 10.04 booted
thanks  ken

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-20
Ok. Press and hold down Shift key from the Bios screen until you see Grub menu.

Hightlighting the first entry, press 'e' to edit it. Navigate to "quiet & splash", delete them and type nomodeset in their place. Press Ctrl + X to boot.

Hopefully you'll be able to boot to the desktop this time. Once there, go to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers and activate the Recommended/Current drivers. Reboot and the problem should go away forever.

Good Luck once again.

---

### Post by ken poy on 2010-11-20
hi again,  thanks for the update.  i will practice with the shift key on 9.10 which is now installed.  i will then install 10.04 and hope for the best.
i am still confused about the driver.  when i go to the install hardware drivers panel a driver for video is not listed only a wireless driver.  i guess i need to download the correct 
driver and do something with it so it shows on the list to install.  i would like to get this correct in my mind before the 10.04 install.
thanks   ken

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-20
Go to the Terminal (under Applications > Accessories) of you existing 9.10 install and post the output of

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

As you were not sure about that in you last post.

> i searched and found the Video Card is ATI IGP Xpress 1150 (**i think**)

---

### Post by ken poy on 2010-11-21
Hi   i was confused with the lspci command so in an effort to understand what i was doing.
lspci is apparently an add on cmd to show system info the | is a pipe to pass it's output to
the grep cmd which searches for characters pci.  i did not capitalize vga so nothing was 
found.  i used the grep -i parameter and got the following.  

ken@ken-laptop:~$ lspci | grep -i vga
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RS482 [Radeon Xpress 200M]
ken@ken-laptop:~$

i also found a CD with Dell hardware drivers. but so far have not found which directory
they are in.

hope this is helpful.    thanks  ken

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-21
> i was confused with the lspci command so in an effort to understand what i was doing.
lspci is apparently an add on cmd to show system info the | is a pipe to pass it's output to the grep cmd which searches for characters pci

You are extremely right about all that stuff :P

Regarding you graphics card, I don't think proprietary drivers for Radeon 200M are available in newer version of Ubuntu (??). You can use the open source drivers for that as mentioned here.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)

Just to clear up things a bit, you are running 9.04 at the moment, it is running fine and you want to install 10.04 and are unable to boot it even from a Live CD?

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-11-21
>  i used the grep -i parameter and got the following.  
Linux is case sensitive, so using the -i switch was exactly the right thing to do.

For more about grep:
[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/search.py?q=grep&op=&cx=003883529982892832976%3A5zl6o8w6f0s&cof=FORID%3A9&ie=UTF-8](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/cgi-bin/search.py?q=grep&op=&cx=003883529982892832976%3A5zl6o8w6f0s&cof=FORID%3A9&ie=UTF-8)

---

### Post by gandaran on 2010-11-22
ken poy
you could also look for a BIOS update from the Dell website for the laptop model, if there is one install it, BIOS updates can fix these issues booting new linux kernels.

---

### Post by ken poy on 2010-11-22
hello,  as in previous updates i am trying to install Ubuntu 10.04 and i need to install the
ATI RS482 Radeon xpress 200M driver.  i have searched and found lots of info.
i would like to do it via the System/Administration/Hardware Drivers.
one describes Ubuntu ATI Binary Driver howto
            and    Ubuntu ATI opensource Driver howto
i think the driver will support my video card??
not sure which to use  Binary/Opensource??
they speak of possibly having a driver installed??
i ran GLXINFO  and i have  SGI for Server & Client and
                                         DRI R300 Project for Open GL

not sure what this means but if you can give any reassurance i will proceed.

Thanks  ken

PS i missed the previous updates so will check them out.    thanks   ken

---

### Post by ken poy on 2010-11-22
hi,  i am still trying to make sense of the ATI drive issue.  i have searched and found sites that explain how to install the drive.  non really seem to match.  
from the Ubuntu software center i downloaded ATI driver-installer.  when i run it i get
could not open file. not sure of the whole message or if this is what i want.  i did find a 
forum site with an install description.

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu)  at this page i choose Lucid 10.04
which is what i am trying to install

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Lucid_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Lucid_Installation_Guide)

Here i choose Open Source Drivers with the following instuctions.

By default, Ubuntu will already try to use one of the open source drivers for your hardware. If the feature set and stability work for you, then you don't need to change anything.

The drivers that may be used are

    * vesa Lowest common denominator across all graphics vendor, not many features.
    * ati Actually a thin wrapper that will invoke the radeon driver (or another ati open-source driver for pre-Radeon cards).
    * radeon Driver support all radeon classes of hardware - with limited 3D for newer cards.
    * radeonhd An alternate driver support R520 hardware and later. This driver is now all but officially deprecated in favor of radeon. 

By default there is no configuration file (xorg.conf) for X anymore, so X will try to do the right thing.

If you run into stability problems with 3D applications using the radeon/radeonhd drivers, consider trying a more recent kernel. mainline-2.6.34-lucid did the trick on a few machines.
[edit] Installing Open Source Edge Drivers

These packages are built regularly from the X.Org git repository, so they may not be fully stable. On Lucid, using this graphics stack now uses the r300g Gallium3D driver for 3D acceleration on Radeon R300-R500 (Radeon 9500 - Radeon X1950) class chips. It's probably a good idea to use the linux kernel provided by this repo if you go this route.

To install:

$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:xorg-edgers/ppa
$ sudo apt-get update

Now you can update your packages using Synaptic or Update Manager. 

Maybe this is what i am looking for.  i hope because it seems straight forward

thanks for any comments and help       ken

i missed reply 11  i have looked at the site you listed and i seemed more complex than that listed above.
also i am running  i thought  rel 9.10  okay  and am trying to boot rel 10.04  which i have installed but had to return to 9.10 due to the blank screen boot error.     thanks   ken

---

### Post by ken poy on 2010-11-23
hello,  i have just re installed 10.04  i guess i am a gluten for punishment .  i booted the 10.04 system and it
booted successfully.   so i guess at this point i can boot the isos okay and was lucky to get 10.04 booted.
i will try the shift key procedure to boot if it fails.  this thread is so long and i am a bit confused so will open a 
new thread to resolve the VGA driver issue which still has me buffaloed.   thanks    ken

---

