---
title: "10.04 very slow downloads"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hydrokys on 2010-04-30
i am trying to download my video drivers and its been about 20 minutes and am only half way. also downloading from software center is VERY slow. Anyone know of a fix or is it just because its new?

---

### Post by itachisxeyes on 2010-04-30
> **Hydrokys said:**
> i am trying to download my video drivers and its been about 20 minutes and am only half way. also downloading from software center is VERY slow. Anyone know of a fix or is it just because its new?
this is because everyone in the world who is using Ubuntu is downloading mostly the same things.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-04-30
try a different mirror. in software center click edit, software sources, download from, other,  select best server.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-04-30
same here Hydrokys, 
it is painfully slow. 


> **Re: 10.04 very slow downloads** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		 	Quote:
 	 	 		 			 				 					Originally Posted by **Hydrokys** 					[[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/buttons/viewpost.gif[/IMG]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9201532#post9201532") 				
 				*i am trying to download my video  drivers and its been about 20 minutes and am only half way. also  downloading from software center is VERY slow.  Anyone know of a fix or is it just because its new?*
 			 		 	 	 
this is because everyone in the world who is using Ubuntu is  downloading mostly the same things.


 ahh, that makes sense i guess.  thanks. 

Ubuntu restricted extras has been downloading for appx. half an hour, and is only at 24% 

 VLC took a long time to, and never installed.. somehow. lol

---

