---
title: ".gvfs file - not able to access it"
date: 2009-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2009-05-03
I got the dreaded ".dmrc file being ignored" message at start-up. I think I found the answer to fix it but the ".gvfs" file is standing in my way. It is not accessable. I cannot change its permissions in terminal. And whats worse, although it does show up in nautilus when I open nautilus as a regular user, if I open nautilus as sudo, ".gvfs" does not show up (yes I did check "show hidden folders") and so I cannot change its permissions.

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-05-03
Please post the output of ```

ls -ld ~/.gvfs
```

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2009-05-03
$ ls -ld ~/.gvfs
dr-x------ 2 daryl daryl 0 2009-05-03 12:36 /home/daryl/.gvfs

My problem is that I cannot access it to change the permissions.

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2009-05-03
Here is a clear picture of my situation. /.gvfs exists but is inaccessible.

$ ls -a 
.                 .gksu.lock            Pictures
..                .gnome2               .profile
.adobe            .gnome2_private       Public
.bash_history     .gnupg                .pulse
.bash_logout      .gstreamer-0.10       .pulse-cookie
.bashrc           .gtk-bookmarks        .recently-used
.cache            .gvfs                 .recently-used.xbel
.compiz           .ICEauthority         .sudo_as_admin_successful
.config           .icedteaplugin        Templates
.dbus             .icons                .themes
Desktop           .local                .thumbnails
.dmrc             .macromedia           .update-manager-core
Documents         .mozilla              .update-notifier
.esd_auth         .mozilla-thunderbird  Videos
examples.desktop  Music                 .wine
.fontconfig       .nautilus             .Xauthority
.gconf            .netx                 .xsession-errors
.gconfd           .openoffice.org
daryl@working-system:~$ sudo chown daryl /home/Daryl/.gvfs
chown: cannot access `/home/Daryl/.gvfs': No such file or directory

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-05-03
```
$ ls -ld ~/.gvfs
**dr-x------** 2 **daryl** daryl 0 2009-05-03 12:36 /home/daryl/.gvfs

```
This shows that your .gvfs directory already has the correct ownership and permission attributes. They should not be changed.

Moreover, .gvfs is a special directory. You cannot change its ownership with the "chown" command. The owner is set at the time of creation by gvfs-fuse-daemon. Type "mount" and you will probably see

```
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/daryl/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,**user=daryl** )
```

Note the options at the end -- user=daryl. I think this implies you aren't going to be able to change ownership of ~/.gvfs using chown.

When I run "gksu nautilus", I also do not see ~/.gvfs. So I'm getting the same behavior as you. 

So far, everything you've described sounds like Ubuntu is working properly.

What is the broader problem you are trying to solve?

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2009-05-03
At login, after password, I get "User's $Home/.dmrc file is being ignored. This prevents the default session and language from being saved. File should be owned by user and have 644 permissions. User's $Home directory must be owned by user and not writable by other users".

I ran "sudo chown daryl /home/daryl/.dmrc" and then "chmod 644 /home/username/.dmrc" and I got...

chmod: cannot access `/home/username/.dmrc': No such file or directory.

As for why I need to access "/.gvfs", earlier when I ran these commands (or something along those lines that I don't remember) I got a "cannot access /.gvfs" error.

P.S.
I just found what I did earlier. I ran the following command and the resultant error follows...

sudo chown -R $USERNAME: $HOME
chown: cannot access `/home/daryl/.gvfs': Permission denied

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-05-03
Try this command:
```

chmod 600 /home/daryl/.dmrc

```

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2009-05-03
This made no differance. I still get the same error at login.
I have an identicle system set up on another drive which does not give the error at login. I wonder if I could copy my user directory from there to here?

---

### Post by unutbu on 2009-05-03
Try this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6208727](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6208727)

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2009-05-03
The link you recommended solved my problem. Thanks.

I didn't think it would work. In section 3, note 3 it states...
```

When this command is run you may get a message stating "unable to access /home/user/.gvfs.. This is not a problem and references the .gvfs is a virtual file system. The command should do what is necessary to fix the problem, but you can avoid this message by accomplishing these commands first.

```

Well, when I performed the steps I got the message that ".gvfs does not exist". Apparently this error is ALSO NOT A PROBLEM.

Reboot was successful. Thanks.

---

