---
title: "11.10 -&gt; 12.04 upgrade nightmare"
date: 2012-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cscj01 on 2012-05-08
I upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10 this weekend.  I have an x64 system, and things seemed to go well.  After booting into 12.04, I found a few things needed my attention.  For one, I had to change my MySQL config file because I use utf8 character sets, and MySQL had changed the variable names.  After correcting this, I had a few other issues that were quickly solved.  Then I got into real trouble after using Ubuntu Tweak to "Clean" my system.  I cleaned Apps cache, APT cache, Uneeded packages, and Package configs.  Suddenly, I could not launch applications.  The 12.04 problem reporting system kept coming up saying there was a problem. I could not get to Terminal, launch Thunderbird, Synaptic, and many other apps.  Out of desperation, I re-booted.  Bad move.

I could not re-boot, because the problem reporting app wanted to run.  I could not run from Recovery mode for the same reason.

Fortunately, I had used Clonezilla to clone my 11.04 system.  I restored that, and I am back in business.  I will not move to 12.04 until I can find some answers, of which I have none, as to why 12.04 went nuts.  The only clue I have at the moment concerns the "cleaning" I did in Ubuntu Tweak.

If anyone has any ideas, perhaps you can pass them on to me.  I would like to move to 12.04, but I can't bet my system on it without knowing what I did wrong or what went wrong that should not have.

Thanks in advance for any thoughts.

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2012-05-08
Upgrading an operating system hardly ever works perfectly (doesn't matter what operating system it is). A clean install is a much better option when possible. This is one reason why many distributions have the home folder on another partition by default so the operating system can change and not disrupt user data. As for your specific issues I'd weigh how long it will take to resolve them versus how long it would take to reinstall and reconfigure. At least for me its always always faster and easier to just do a clean install.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2012-05-08
> **cscj01 said:**
> I upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10 this weekend.  I have an x64 system, and things seemed to go well.  After booting into 12.04, I found a few things needed my attention.  For one, I had to change my MySQL config file because I use utf8 character sets, and MySQL had changed the variable names.  After correcting this, I had a few other issues that were quickly solved.  Then I got into real trouble after using Ubuntu Tweak to "Clean" my system.  I cleaned Apps cache, APT cache, Uneeded packages, and Package configs.  Suddenly, I could not launch applications.  The 12.04 problem reporting system kept coming up saying there was a problem. I could not get to Terminal, launch Thunderbird, Synaptic, and many other apps.  Out of desperation, I re-booted.  Bad move.

I could not re-boot, because the problem reporting app wanted to run.  I could not run from Recovery mode for the same reason.

Fortunately, I had used Clonezilla to clone my 11.04 system.  I restored that, and I am back in business.  I will not move to 12.04 until I can find some answers, of which I have none, as to why 12.04 went nuts.  The only clue I have at the moment concerns the "cleaning" I did in Ubuntu Tweak.

If anyone has any ideas, perhaps you can pass them on to me.  I would like to move to 12.04, but I can't bet my system on it without knowing what I did wrong or what went wrong that should not have.

Thanks in advance for any thoughts.


Clean installs are always the best method. One time I upgraded and things seems OK for a while and then 
It went crazy and I ended up doing a clean install any way. JMO

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-05-08
Sounds like ubuntu tweak is at fault.

I use apt-get autoclean

---

### Post by cscj01 on 2012-06-25
I have been on 12.04 (again) for about a month now.  So far there are no problems.  However, I have not used Ubuntu Tweak to clean anything.  Once burned, twice shy.

---

