---
title: ".cr2 viewer"
date: 2006-09-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jnev on 2006-09-04
about the only thing preventing me from deleting my windows partition now is the lack of any kind of .cr2 viewer for my rebel xt that I have been able to find. please tell me that I haven't been searching well enough... if not does anyone know any plans for someone to write a viewer?

thanks

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-04
You might tell us more about what is .cr2 and what is a rebel xt?

---

### Post by jnev on 2006-09-04
rebel xt is a dslr camera from canon and .cr2 is a raw image file.

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-04
Well I think xnview will read cr2 and I had it running under wine which they also have a linux version. But if I remember the linux version is not as capable as the windows version.

But I havn't tested win xnview extensivelly but it does install and run  under wine. You can go to thier web site and check the specs.

Sorry could be more help as I too would love an app like acdsee for linux.

---

### Post by jnev on 2006-09-04
both of the servers for the linux version were down so I installed the windows version with wine, and it works well. thanks for the help.

by any chance though, does anybody know a native linux app that can display cr2's?

thanks

---

### Post by orb9220 on 2006-09-05
Look into
Picasa
F-spot
Gwenview which has alot of plugins

---

### Post by jasplund on 2006-09-05
Picasa ([http://picasa.google.com/linux/](http://picasa.google.com/linux/)) should work

ufraw.sourceforge.net is a great program for working with raw-files.

Also you should try gnome-raw-thumbnailer if you want nautilus to show thumbnails

---

### Post by PriceChild on 2006-09-05
Have you tried the gimp?

Or is that too obvious you've tried and failed? :P

---

### Post by Shay Stephens on 2006-09-05
bibble has a linux version that lets you view edit and output raw cr2 files.  I would say it's the most capable editor out there right now for linux.
[http://www.bibblelabs.com/](http://www.bibblelabs.com/)

as a last resort, the canon software runs under wine.

---

### Post by Shay Stephens on 2006-09-05
> **PriceChild said:**
> Have you tried the gimp?

Or is that too obvious you've tried and failed? :P

Plain gimp can't open raw files.  If you load the ufraw plugin, you can work with cr2 raw files in gimp.  But ufraw is not very feature-ful as yet, and the processing options you have are limited.  In addition, gimp can't work with 16 bit files, so you throw out a lot of the reasons one shoots raw if one processes them with ufraw/gimp.

---

### Post by jnev on 2006-09-05
I just got bibble pro, and it's awesome. I just don't understand how it works... it says on the home page that it costs money, but then I can just DL it, and nowhere does it say that it's a trial. is it or isn't it?

thanks

---

### Post by hw-tph on 2006-09-06
I use a Rebel XT (actually, it's a 350D but it's the same camera) with Ubuntu and it works well. dcraw converts from Canon raw to tiff but it's cumbersome to use.

The gimp-dcraw packages provides raw capabilities to the Gimp but it is limited to 16 colors. Another solution, and the one that I use most of the time, is [LightZone](http://www.sonic.net/~rat/lightcrafts/). It provides a full 24bit color support and efficient workflow.


Håkan

---

### Post by andy_cowman on 2006-09-06
I have a canon 20D and use my machine as a digital darkroom. Everything works on Linux :D 

Digikam for importing the Raws and JPEGS

Picasa for managing, viewing printing etc as its produces some great prints (i use the latest web albums release with latest WINE as its much quicker at dealing with CR2 files)

Gimp and UFRaw for Raw editing and air brushing

You could also try VMPlayer with XP or 2000 installed and then have photoshop CS2 working in that that has a raw editor. I set that up for my father but he has started using the GIMP now so it doesnt get used often. Access the same mydocuments folder though a samba share and cups with samba allows printing from everywhere! 

Good luck

Andy

---

### Post by z_diver on 2007-08-23
> **hw-tph said:**
> I use a Rebel XT (actually, it's a 350D but it's the same camera) with Ubuntu and it works well. dcraw converts from Canon raw to tiff but it's cumbersome to use.

The gimp-dcraw packages provides raw capabilities to the Gimp but it is limited to 16 colors. Another solution, and the one that I use most of the time, is [LightZone]("http://www.sonic.net/%7Erat/lightcrafts/"). It provides a full 24bit color support and efficient workflow.

Håkan

This is an old thread but viewing and editing .CR2s on linux is something that will be around for a long time to come.  And LightZone link is a good one to hang on to.  I didn't realize they offer the Linux version for free.  It's a powerful tool and the zones manipulation works wonders, especially when used in addition with the blending modes.  Not open source but free is halfway there and from a functionality standpoint, I can highly recommend it.

---

