---
title: "host file"
date: 2012-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ELMIT on 2012-10-11
I have a server at one IP and want to test the same on another IP.
To do so I used host files on my desktop.

If my host file pointed to IP-2 I use server 2, if I remove this line I use IP-1 from the public DNS.

At one domain I try to do so, I get troubles and I think this domain is looking up something on it's own site by name. Since the name server point to IP-1. I tried to add for this domain as well the entry to the host file ON THE SERVER.

The host file looks like: 
> cat /etc/hosts
127.0.0.1	localhost.localdomain localhost
11.22.33.44	abc.com
::1		localhost6.localdomain6 localhost6
127.0.0.1	localhost
::1		localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0		ip6-localnet
ff00::0		ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1		ip6-allnodes
ff02::2		ip6-allrouters


Looks fine, right?

However:
> host abc.com
abc.com has address 55.66.77.88
abc.com has IPv6 address 2a00:2344:0:404:32d7::1
abc.com mail is handled by 100 mxlb.server.de.


Why is that?
resolv.conf might be the reason:
> cat /etc/resolv.conf 
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 109.239.49.251
nameserver 109.239.48.251
nameserver 109.239.48.250


How can I do it correct?
Again: I want to use a testing server which uses a different Server IP address.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-10-12
> **ELMIT said:**
> ..........

How can I do it correct?
Again: I want to use a testing server which uses a different Server IP address.

Check this:

[http://superuser.com/questions/92588/can-the-order-in-which-a-dns-entry-is-looked-up-be-changed](http://superuser.com/questions/92588/can-the-order-in-which-a-dns-entry-is-looked-up-be-changed)

---

