---
title: "8.04 shutdown question"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hatewindows on 2008-04-29
Hello all--I use the new 8.04 ubuntu and everytime i shut down the computer-I get a black screen (LOOKS LIKE AN OLD DOS SCREEN) that shows different checks being made-with the words OK next to it-After the checks--The pc shuts down normal..I never had that with any ver of Ubuntu..Thanks for any help--Other then that ubuntu 8.04 runs flawless--Not 1 problem anywhere.. Have a great day!! Mark

---

### Post by Rusty023 on 2008-04-29
bump I got the same prob.

---

### Post by hatewindows on 2008-04-29
I was wondering if there was a way to shut off this check?

---

### Post by daengbo on 2008-04-29
That is the normal kernel shutdown which needs to happen every time you shutdown the computer. There is no real problem.

The Ubuntu usplash screen which used to hide the text is apparently not working for you, but that can happen for any number of reasons, none of which are problematic at all.

---

### Post by frodon on 2008-04-29
Your usplash is more likely configured to use a resolution not supported by your screen.

To fix this :

Open you usplash.conf file and choose a resolution supported by your screen :
```
gksudo gedit /etc/usplash.conf
```
Then update you usplash configuration to use these new settings :
```
sudo update-usplash
```It should do it.

---

### Post by Rusty023 on 2008-04-29
The resolution was fine. If this helps, the text only displays when I shutdown after logging in, if I shut down from the login screen it displays fine.

---

### Post by free2useemail on 2008-04-29
This is completely normal. Remember, when running linux, command lines are one of the main things you will see! Although you don'y really have to mess with Command Lines, you will see them when installing .deb packages, shutting down like you saw, and alot of other stuff. 

PS: I would learn all you can about using command lines if you do not know already!

---

### Post by GCoffee on 2008-04-29
Yeah this is not a problem..

I don't know why it doesn't display the splash screen though... might be a bug of some sort!

This happened to me using fedora 8 at one point...

---

### Post by frodon on 2008-04-29
You can still fill a bug report in launchpad if you have time and want to inform ubuntu dev of this bug. Think to provide as much details as possible and eventually some error log if you have some (you can use log viewer) :
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+filebug)

---

