---
title: ".bin not working."
date: 2008-07-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leveliv on 2008-07-18
here's the error I get when I put in this code: 
```
chris@chris-desktop:~$ cd Desktop
chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop$ cd PenumbraBPLinux
chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop/PenumbraBPLinux$ ls
blackplague.bin  instrucoes - instructions.pdf  PBPL.sh
chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop/PenumbraBPLinux$ chmod +x blackplague.bin
chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop/PenumbraBPLinux$ ./blackplague.bin
./blackplague.bin: error while loading shared libraries: libCg.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory

```

am I missing something, what do I need to install?

---

### Post by Tim Sharitt on 2008-07-18
I looks like libCg is no installed. After a quick google search, it looks like this library is included in the nvidia-cq-toolkit. 
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-cg-toolkit
```

---

### Post by Taxman415a on 2008-07-18
The last line:
error while loading shared libraries: libCg.so: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
tells you that the file needs the library libCg.so and that it can't find it on your system. Most likely you need to go find it and download it.

To find it , first I googled for 'ubuntu how to find what package a file is in' that came up with several links with that answer including this one: [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/what-package-is-that-file-in.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/what-package-is-that-file-in.html)  that included the standard dpkg way and a new way that can find it whether you have it installed or not. Well I installed and ran apt-file but it was going to take a while to run the first update, so then I just googled for the file you need with 'libCg.so ubuntu'. It showed that it is in the nvidia-cg-toolkit package. So sudo aptitude install nvidia-cg-toolkit should get you the library you need. And if it doesn't, that google search gave some links to an nvidia developer page.

---

### Post by leveliv on 2008-07-19
after I installed the nvidia thing I got this error

> chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop/PenumbraBPLinux$ chmod +x blackplague.bin
chris@chris-desktop:~/Desktop/PenumbraBPLinux$ ./blackplague.bin
./blackplague.bin: error while loading shared libraries: libopenal.so.1: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory


---

### Post by llebegue on 2008-07-19
You should try to install the library

```

sudo apt-get install libopenal0a

```

---

### Post by leveliv on 2008-07-19
it said it was already the newest version.

---

### Post by Taxman415a on 2008-07-19
it looks like the problem is the libopenal0a package for Hardy has the old version of the library. If you do dpkg -L libopenal0a it lists /usr/lib/libopenal.so.0 as the library it installs instead of the version you need.

What you can do is install the package from the next version of Ubuntu manually. I'm not sure it will work, and it could even cause system instability, but here is a link to it. If you're running Hardy, download it to your desktop and doubleclick it to install it

[http://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/main/o/openal-soft/libopenal1_1.3.253-4ubuntu1_i386.deb](http://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/main/o/openal-soft/libopenal1_1.3.253-4ubuntu1_i386.deb)

---

### Post by leveliv on 2008-07-20
I dont think I want to risk it :P I just got it running the way I want and it isnt really worth it for just a game.

---

### Post by Taxman415a on 2008-07-20
On the scale of risky activities this one's not too high considering it is an Ubuntu package, but installing non-blessed packages does leave you out in the cold if you want support for problems later. I did test installing it and it didn't seem to cause any problems for me. I did already have all the dependencies satisfied, the gdebi package installer tells you that when you double click on one. You may want to set up a testing partition or Virtualbox and install Ubuntu inside that and try it there. That way any mistakes can be rolled back easily.

---

### Post by leveliv on 2008-07-21
Im sorry I read that wrong :P I somehow thought I had to recompile my kernel :| jeez..

---

