---
title: "6.10 -&gt; 7.04 = ATI direct rendering bye bye"
date: 2007-07-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by devolut on 2007-07-25
Hello,

I upgraded from Dapper 6.10 to Feisty 7.04 a few days ago and things are fine except I can no longer use Google Earth, because it seems I no longer have direct rendering support:
> 
$ glxinfo
name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: No

But.......

> $ cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log
{snip}
(**) RADEON(0): DRI Finishing init !
(II) RADEON(0): X context handle = 0x1
(II) RADEON(0): [drm] installed DRM signal handler
(II) RADEON(0): [DRI] installation complete
(**) RADEON(0): EngineRestore (32/32)
(II) RADEON(0): [drm] Added 32 65536 byte vertex/indirect buffers
(II) RADEON(0): [drm] Mapped 32 vertex/indirect buffers
(II) RADEON(0): [drm] dma control initialized, using IRQ 16
(II) RADEON(0): [drm] Initialized kernel GART heap manager, 5111808
(WW) RADEON(0): DRI init changed memory map, adjusting ...
(WW) RADEON(0):   MC_FB_LOCATION  was: 0xf3fff000 is: 0xf3fff000
(WW) RADEON(0):   MC_AGP_LOCATION was: 0xffffffc0 is: 0xf87ff800
(**) RADEON(0): GRPH_BUFFER_CNTL from 20097c7c to 200e5c5c
(II) RADEON(0): Direct rendering enabled
{snip}

There are no other errors related to the features of the card in the log.. I can post a full one if it would help.  Here's the pertinent info from xorg.conf:

> Section "Device"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV250 If [Radeon 9000 Pro]"
        Driver      "ati"
EndSection


I have also tried the 'radeon' driver with the same result.  I also found this bug report for the fglrx driver:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/85907]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.20/+bug/85907")

Nothing is mentioned there about the 'ati' or 'radeon' drivers but it is the exact same problem.  3D acceleration is not happening in Feisty.  I am reading other reports that this is beginning to get fixed for the 'fglrx' driver which is great except my card is too old and isn't supported by fglrx, and X doesn't like to work when I tell it to use that driver.

Help?

---

### Post by strabes on 2007-07-26
Which card do you have? Try following the instructions in the "ATI Drivers" link in my profile.

---

### Post by devolut on 2007-07-27
> "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon RV250 If [Radeon 9000 Pro]"

My card is not suppored by the fglrx driver.. I think my fix is going to be to throw away this old card.

---

