---
title: "11.04 froze on boot"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Green_Star on 2011-10-19
I installed 11.04 few days ago with AMD driver for my integrated ATI 4200HD video card. After installing upgrades today morning, I am not able to pass the boot process, it just hangs before the login prompt. I have tried 'recovery mode' from Grub, it still hangs after i selected 'resume booting' in the menu. I tried Ctrl+Alt+F(num), but it does nothing. I think todays updates broke my graphics driver, I think I need to reinstall, but I see no way how I can install it. 

Please help, thanks in advance.

---

### Post by bibble235 on 2011-10-19
When you say it hangs at the login prompt, do you mean

login:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver) is one suggestion. 

Says it show run "out of the box" for drivers RV620/radeon 

And maybe look at

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Natty_Installation_Guide)

---

### Post by Green_Star on 2011-10-20
Thanks bibble235, my machine hangs just before login prompt, as I can not go to any of the usable screens, such as command prompt etc I can not do any thing. 

Any way as explained at some forum(from google) I started computer with recovery option by adding 'i915.modeset=0' to grub, I was able to manage to go command prompt. From there I have installed proprietary drivers, that fixed everything. 

Anyway I strongly believe, Ubuntu needs to fix this so that non-tech people dont have to go too technically to fix the problem, in my previous releases when ever kernel updates(sometimes for some other updates), I loose my drivers and it just hangs before login prompt. I was able to start in recovery option and reinstall display drivers. This is first time Ubuntu hangs even with recovery option.

---

