---
title: "10.04 lucid firefox font fuzzy"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-04-30
i changed the gnome font settings to make the fonts sharper, but firefox doesn't listen to gnome settings apparently, and the fonts are fuzzy on my screen.  i found some methods to fixing it in 9.04, which i did and it worked, but i'm not finding any posts on how to fix this in 10.04.  has anyone figured this out yet?  thanks.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-01
> **timcredible said:**
> i changed the gnome font settings to make the fonts sharper, but firefox doesn't listen to gnome settings apparently, and the fonts are fuzzy on my screen.  i found some methods to fixing it in 9.04, which i did and it worked, but i'm not finding any posts on how to fix this in 10.04.  has anyone figured this out yet?  thanks.

And **exactly **what version do you have installed?

---

### Post by todds on 2010-05-01
I have found if you make a .fonts.conf file in your home directory and add the following lines you should be pleased with the results.

<?xml version="1.0"?>
<!DOCTYPE fontconfig SYSTEM "fonts.dtd">
<fontconfig>
 <match target="font" >
  <edit mode="assign" name="rgba" >
   <const>rgb</const>
  </edit>
 </match>
 <match target="font" >
  <edit mode="assign" name="hinting" >
   <bool>true</bool>
  </edit>
 </match>
 <match target="font" >
  <edit mode="assign" name="hintstyle" >
   <const>hintfull</const>
  </edit>
 </match>
 <match target="font" >
  <edit mode="assign" name="antialias" >
   <bool>true</bool>
  </edit>
 </match>
</fontconfig>

---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-05-01
thanks!  that didn't quite do it, but it gave me the idea that i see if this file matches what i set in gnome, it would be what i wanted.  so mine has hintmedium instead of hintfull.  seems to be ok, but not quite what i wanted.  i checked my gnome setting file, and it has these 2 settings:

<?xml version="1.0"?>
<gconf>
    <entry name="hinting" mtime="1272712416" type="string">
        <stringvalue>medium</stringvalue>
    </entry>
    <entry name="antialiasing" mtime="1272712416" type="string">
        <stringvalue>grayscale</stringvalue>
    </entry>
</gconf>

so i'm wondering if i also need to set antialiasing to grayscale in the .fonts.conf file?  i tried guessing at the command, did a search, but the fonts are still just slightly off.  any suggestions?  thanks.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-01
> **timcredible said:**
> 
........
 any suggestions?  thanks.

How about answering what version of FF you have?

---

### Post by strange_cathect on 2010-05-01
I have [another thread on this topic]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1467100"). I have uploaded pictures to show how my Georgia font is not rendering correctly on firefox. My version is 3.6.3.

---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-05-01
i'm using the default in 10.04, firefox v3.6.3. i'm going to check out epiphany and maybe use it instead since it's just firefox with gnome framework, right?

---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-05-10
so, epiphany works perfect.  i guess i just won't use firefox anymore.  what a shame that an open source project like firefox doesn't have an option to listen to gnome settings.  i wonder if it can listen to kde settings...

---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-05-10
but epiphany doesn't work too well on websites.  grrr.... maybe i'll just go back to 9.04 where at least there was a fix for firefox

---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-05-11
i had read where the 9.04 solution didn't work, but it does:
```

sudo rm /etc/fonts/conf.d/10*
sudo dpkg-reconfigure fontconfig

```

---

### Post by opendevlite on 2010-05-12
this also fix my problem

sudo rm /etc/fonts/conf.d/10*
sudo dpkg-reconfigure fontconfig

---

### Post by wa4geg on 2010-05-19
RE:

================================

sudo rm /etc/fonts/conf.d/10*
sudo dpkg-reconfigure fontconfig

================================


Thanks for this info! FireFox (3.6.3) now honors Gnome's system font settings (Ubuntu 10.04 LTS).

---

