---
title: "Is my home server at risk?"
date: 2012-03-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Brobotic on 2012-03-07
Hey all. Today I was setting up fail2ban on my headless Ubuntu 11.10 server, when I was looking through /var/log/auth.log and noticed a bunch of logs like this:

> Mar  7 00:50:16 localhost sshd[12148]: Failed password for root from ##.##.##.### port ##### ssh2
Mar  7 00:50:17 localhost sshd[12150]: reverse mapping checking getaddrinfo for ###-##-##-##.static.reverse.x.net [$
Mar  7 00:50:17 localhost sshd[12150]: pam_unix(sshd:auth): authentication failure; logname= uid=0 euid=0 tty=ssh ruse$


It was multiple IPs over the course of a day. I only installed the server yesterday morning. About 12 hours after setting the server up is when those logs started. A bunch of failure attempts, looks like there was never a success. The ports on each connection attempt varied. It was trying to connect maybe 2 or 3 times a minute for a few minutes at a time. Sometimes using account names such as 'root' or 'oracle' or 'test' or 'bin'. A simple IP tracer showed the IPs (supposedly) coming from China, Korea, and Dallas TX. I live in California. It hasn't happened in about 5 hours. I have a dynamic DNS set up with no-ip.org. 

Was this a brute force attack? How did they find out the address of my server within 12 hours of it being online? What can I do to prevent this, SSH keys?

Thank you for your time.

---

### Post by holycow131415 on 2012-03-07
Its the internet. There are probes running 24/7 to find the most common weaknesses etc. There are only a certain number of IP addresses available, so they just run through a list every day. The list probably included your IP even before you created the server. Just make sure to configure a firewall accordingly and have all passwords super strong.

---

### Post by Dangertux on 2012-03-07
> **Brobotic said:**
> Hey all. Today I was setting up fail2ban on my headless Ubuntu 11.10 server, when I was looking through /var/log/auth.log and noticed a bunch of logs like this:



It was multiple IPs over the course of a day. I only installed the server yesterday morning. About 12 hours after setting the server up is when those logs started. A bunch of failure attempts, looks like there was never a success. The ports on each connection attempt varied. It was trying to connect maybe 2 or 3 times a minute for a few minutes at a time. Sometimes using account names such as 'root' or 'oracle' or 'test' or 'bin'. A simple IP tracer showed the IPs (supposedly) coming from China, Korea, and Dallas TX. I live in California. It hasn't happened in about 5 hours. I have a dynamic DNS set up with no-ip.org. 

Was this a brute force attack? How did they find out the address of my server within 12 hours of it being online? What can I do to prevent this, SSH keys?

Thank you for your time.

Yes that is a brute force attack, well actually that's an error generated by a bad PTR record when SSH tried to perform a reverse lookup, you will see these often times in conjunction with a brute force as the request is actually being proxied from elsewhere.

That being said to mitigate this definitely use keys, disable password authentication and consider iptables rate limiting.

Another thing people like to recommend is denyhosts or fail2ban which are fine however are a little bit redundant if you do the prior two things. Truthfully keys would be sufficient.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2012-03-07
> **Dangertux said:**
> 
Another thing people like to recommend is denyhosts or fail2ban which are fine however are a little bit redundant if you do the prior two things. Truthfully keys would be sufficient.


They do serve to clean your logs up quite a bit.

---

### Post by lisati on 2012-03-07
I haven't done any major number crunching on it, but have the impression from my own experience that when someone tries to break in the overhead from blocking suspicious connections using firewall rules maintained by fail2ban is a lot smaller than the overhead created by the break-in attempts. At least, as someone else has noted, my logs are a lot cleaner than they would otherwise be.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-03-08
If you absolutely need SSH access to your home server from outside your network, disable password authentication and implement key authentication instead.

If you don't absolutely need SSH access to your home server from outside your network, then block that incoming port in your router.

---

### Post by Brobotic on 2012-03-08
Thanks all for your help. Looks I'll be setting up SSH keys. Wanted to get it set up quickly so I just chose password authentication, but I see now that it's worth it to go the extra mile for security.

---

### Post by Dangertux on 2012-03-08
> **lisati said:**
> I haven't done any major number crunching on it, but have the impression from my own experience that when someone tries to break in the overhead from blocking suspicious connections using firewall rules maintained by fail2ban is a lot smaller than the overhead created by the break-in attempts. At least, as someone else has noted, my logs are a lot cleaner than they would otherwise be.

I agree on the logs, though I always did enjoy looking through logs lol.

However I have to disagree on fail2ban overhead being less if you have a large blacklist without ipset it could be horrendous on a high load system.

---

