---
title: "10.04 LTS hangs on boot"
date: 2010-08-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by btowle on 2010-08-26
I upgraded from 8.04 to 10.04 LTS.  Now when booting it hangs and drops me to a initramfs shell.  This is a scsi machine with 3 drives.  The error I get before dropping to the shell is that the drive with the uuid in menu.lst does not exist.

If I type "exit" at initramfs, it finishes booting in a couple of seconds.  The uuid is correct and maybe this is a timeout error of some kind.  This is a machine that I would want to reboot without having to walk over and type "exit" at the initramfs prompt.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-08-28
This is probably caused by the delay before the drive mounts.  They tried really hard to speed up the boot process in Lucid, so now boot breaks if the drives aren't fast enough :(.

The fix, if this is the problem, is simple.  In /etc/default/grub, uncomment (remove the # if any) the following line, or create it if it's not there, and add the bit in bold:```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash **rootdelay=100**"
```That tells the system to wait 100 seconds for that drive.  If it finds it sooner, it'll continue booting, so it won't slow things down more than necessary.  (You may or may not want "quiet" and "splash", they're just what I have on my system.)

---

### Post by btowle on 2010-08-30
Thanks, this sort of solved the problem.  I guess I am not currently using Grub2.  I originally installed 8.04LTS on this machine and just updated to 10.04LTS.

I added a file "grub" to the /etc/default directory with ownership and permissions the same as other files in the directory, but still got the initramfs shell.  Then I added the "rootdelay=100" to my menu.lst file in /boot/grub/ and all is well.

:D

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-08-30
Glad you got it figured out!  Yes, if you're using old grub, /boot/grub/menu.lst is exactly where you want to put that option.

---

