---
title: "Double grub (chainloader)"
date: 2011-01-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kinmye on 2011-01-07
Hi.
I am looking to the computer of my nephew; the system had a dual boot system; then, updating windows, we lost linux; then we reinstalled linux. Now we have a grub2 boot system with linux and windows entries. Linux entries work properly. But when we select the window ones we go to other boot menu (with linux and windows entries) and we need to select windows again to finally boot windows. I would like to boot windows directly from the first menu.

The system has a unique disk with the following partitions:
```

Partition 0: recovery
Partition 1: vista
Partition 2: /
Partition 3: /home
Partition 4: swap

```

The grub.conf file of the first boot menu, for windows entries is:

```

menuentry "Windows Vista (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 7a74df0274dec055
    chainloader +1
}

```

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-07
Before we go further, please list your partitions properly.
You cannot have five partitions without an extended partition.
Please post the output of **sudo fdisk -l**

Secondly **grub.conf** is a grub-legacy file. So you do not appear to be running a current version of ubuntu. What version do you have installed?

---

### Post by kinmye on 2011-01-07
Hi.
I answer to myself: 
the second boot menu come from windows vista and the windows program bcdedit can be used to configure the menu. 


Thanks for your time.[B]


[/B]

---

### Post by kinmye on 2011-01-07
Tredegar,
Thanks for your help.
As you can see, I have already solved my problem.
To be honest, this PC is using Mint 10. I personally use ubuntu and I am registered on ubuntuforums. I thought that both use the same boot system. 

By the way, I have other question. Maybe this is a Mint related question and shouldn't be placed here, but let me use this thread:

[I][B]Changing Order of GRUB2 OPTIONS
[/B][/I]
I have tried to change the order of the different boot options. What I have successfully done is to modify grub.conf. But it seems that this is a script-generated file and it will be overwritten with next kernel update. Do you know a better way to change the menu list?

First: if I want that windows options are the first ones, should I rename /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober to 09_os-prober ?

Second: grub.conf gets two "windows" options: one for system recovery and one for windows vista. But, I don't know why, the names are interchanged; the first name (windows vista) is in fact the recovery partition; and the second name (recovery) is the windows vista partition. How should I fix this?

Thank you,

---

### Post by kinmye on 2011-01-08
I have solved the grub2 customization. (As I said, the options for windows were not correct and were not in the proper place). 

As you know, changing grub it is critical, not for novices, back up your data, etc.


[LIST=1]
[*]sudo su
[*]cd /boot/grub
[*]cp grub.cfg grub.cfg_backupJan2010
[*]cd /etc/grub.d
[*]I will adapt the custom script for generating the windows entries; I chose 08 as I want the windows entry before linux ones generated by the 10_linux script; the 40_custom is a very small script, that needs to be  finished to create valid entries.
[*]cp 40_custom 08_windows
[*]The windows boot options were (incorretly) generated by the script 30_os-prober; But I can get I good starting point from this result: (you can execute ./30_os-prober  to see the output in the screen)
[*]./30_os-prober >> 08_windows
[*]In my case, 30_os-prober generates two entries, one for windows vista, one for windows recovery; I edit the script 08_windows, delete the windows recovery entry, put I nicer (shorter) name for windows vista, etc.
[*]gedit 08_windows
[*]Now, I want to place the windows recovery entry after the linux option, so this is what I did:
[*]cp 40_custom 29_windows_recovery
[*]./30_os-prober >> 29_windows_recovery
[*]gedit 29_windows_recovery
[*]Now, I delete the entry of windows vista and rename the recovery label.
[*]Now, the problem is that entries from windows will be generated twice, from the 30_os_prober and from the new scripts I have generated. One option could be to delete the 30_os_prober; but there is a better one:
[*]gedit /etc/default/grub
[*]At the end of this configuration file add one line: GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER='true'
[*](In a forum someone said DISABLE_OS_PROBER='true', but in my file all the options start with GRUB_, so I put GRUB_DISABLE.... and it worked correctly).
[*]Finally, we have to regenerate grub.conf:
[*]cd /boot/grub
[*]update-grub
[*]ls  -lh grub.*
[/LIST]
A new file grub.cfg should have been generated. Open it and take a look at the file. The file shows the start and end of all the previous scripts (08_windows .. 10_linux .... 30_os_prober ...) If you don't like the result, restore the previous one (cp  grub.cfg_backupJan2010 grub.cfg). If you like it ... cross your fingers and "reboot now". 

If it does not work, reboot using a live cd, mount the disk, go to /boot/grub, cp grub.cfg_backupJan2010 grub.cfg ).

Hope this helps (and does not harms).
Kin

---

