---
title: "11.04 - Unity and GNOME"
date: 2010-12-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by samstreet101 on 2010-12-21
I haven't tried out the latest alpha release of Natty Narwhal yet but before I do I was just wondering if anybody could enlighten me. I've heard rumours that you won't have the option to use GNOME at all or at least the GNOME shell and that Unity is your only option. Is this true or can you change between the do by logging into different sessions?

---

### Post by waynefoutz on 2010-12-21
I was told that if your computer isn't capable of running desktop effects, it can't run Unity, so it would give you the Gnome 2.x shell instead. So it looks like the old Gnome is going to be an option for a while longer. I don't think Ubuntu is going to ever use the Gnome 3.0, or gnome-shell interface.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-12-21
> **samstreet101 said:**
> I haven't tried out the latest alpha release of Natty Narwhal yet but before I do I was just wondering if anybody could enlighten me. I've heard rumours that you won't have the option to use GNOME at all or at least the GNOME shell and that Unity is your only option. Is this true or can you change between the do by logging into different sessions? It is in the stage that changes are day to day and
some work some do not. Compiz runs the unity interface 
and gnome the classic desktop and if you have to be prepared for breakage on a daily basis.
#Since 10.04 if you load netbook you get both desktop and netbook interfaces at login screen.
In 11.04 the desktop is Unity and the gnome is called classic. 10.04 is ubuntu-netbook, 10.10 is unity.
Now 11.04 progressing into unity as main interface.

---

### Post by samstreet101 on 2010-12-21
Just done a little more searching and it looks like you can simply log into a standard GNOME session as well as Unity. I have every intention of trying out Unity I just want to make sure there's the option to switch to classic GNOME. Cheers for the replies though everyone

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-12-21
There are actually 3 choices, the 3rd being GNOME (Failsafe).

Note that the proper forum for currently lurking or posting about natty is [http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394](http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=394)

---

