---
title: "Samba&amp;Mplayer"
date: 2004-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Franz on 2004-11-04
Hi guys! I am a brand new Linux User. I'm connected to a Windows net, and I wuold like to listen to some music shared by other Windows member, Samba is active (I can "see" their computer and files), but if I try to play their MP3's directly from the net with Mplayer, it displays the error message "Mplayer was not compiled with SMB reading support", how can I solve the problem?
Thank you very much the help!
Franz

---

### Post by Magneto on 2004-11-04
The version of mplayer you have running was compiled on a machine without smb support.  If it is from a package, find a different package or download the mplayer source code and run ```
./configure
``` within the source code directory, part of your response from running the configure script should be
[Color=Green]]Config files successfully generated by ./configure !

  Install prefix: /usr/local
  Data directory: /usr/local/share/mplayer
  Config direct.: /usr/local/etc/mplayer

  Byte order: Little Endian
  Optimizing for: athlon-4 mmx mmx2 3dnow 3dnowex sse mtrr

  Languages:
    Messages/GUI: en
    Manual pages: en (no localization selected, use --language=all)

  Enabled optional drivers:
    Input: ftp network tv-v4l2 tv-v4l edl tv matroska(internal) cdda mpdvdkit2 vcd **smb**
    Codecs: qtx divx5linux xvid libavcodec real xanim dshow/dmo win32 faad2(internal) libmpeg2 liba52 mp3lib libvorbis gif 
    Audio output: alsa esd arts oss sdl mpegpes(file) 
    Video output: xvidix cvidix sdl vesa gif89a jpeg png mpegpes(file) fbdev opengl dga xv x11 xover tga 
  Disabled optional drivers:
    Input: tv-bsdbt848 live.com dvdread dvb 
    Codecs: divx4linux libdv libtheora libmad liblzo 
    Audio output: sgi sun jack dxr2 nas win32 macosx 
    Video output: winvidix bl zr zr2 dxr3 dxr2 directx svga caca aa ggi xmga mga xvmc directfb tdfx_vid tdfxfb 3dfx quartz 
[/Color]]
if you see that

run ```
make
```  then ```
sudo make install
```

---

### Post by Denizen on 2004-11-04
I had the same problem when I first compiled MPlayer.

If you add the development files for SMB in Synaptic, and then go through the motions to compile MPlayer, it should work and have SMB support.

You still need to go to the files and then open with MPlayer as you can't seem to browse SMB shares with the prog as it isn't gnome-vfs compliant.

- Jon

---

### Post by moon2js on 2004-11-25
[QUOTE=Denizen]If you add the development files for SMB in Synaptic, and then go through the motions to compile MPlayer, it should work and have SMB support.[/QUOTE]

Which files in particular do we need to add in synaptic? I looked through all the files that mention SMB in their description, and the only one with development files was libsmbclient-dev, and I tried to install it, but Synaptic won't install it:

> Could not mark all packages for installtion or upgrade. The following packages have unresolvable dependencies. Make sure that all required repositories are added and enables in the preferences. "libsmbclient-dev: Depends: libsmbclient but 3.0.7-1ubuntu6.2 is to be installed"

---

