---
title: "Wireless connected but not internet"
date: 2010-08-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shinokada on 2010-08-14
I am running Ubuntu 10.04 along with windows7.

In Ubuntu, wired network works.

When I connect to a wireless network, it connects but I am not able to connect to internet.

It says, 'Wireless network connection 'blabla' active'.

Could anyone help me out please?

wireless works in Windows 7 and I am using Dell Latitude D630.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by marshag63 on 2010-08-14
Try right clicking on your network icon and look at "Connection Information."  Does it show you are getting an IP address or anything?

Also make sure "Enable Networking" and "Enable Wireless" have checkmarks next to them.

Third thing to check, in browser, is make sure "work offline" does not have a checkmark (under File menu entry).

MarshaG.

---

### Post by shinokada on 2010-08-14
Thanks for your reply, marshag63.

Yes, I have IP address in connection information.

And Yes "Enable Networking" and "Enable Wireless" have checkmarks next to them.

And I don't have a check-mark on "work offline". 

All are clear and under Network connections, the wireless connection's Last Used is 'now'.

But no internet connection.

---

### Post by David52 on 2010-08-14
Download the manual and see if it works out for ya.
[http://ubuntu-manual.org/](http://ubuntu-manual.org/)

---

### Post by shinokada on 2010-08-14
David52: no info relating to my problem.
Thanks anyway.

---

### Post by shinokada on 2010-08-14
When I connect to a cable, internet works.

Then I type, cat /etc/resolv.conf , it outputs the followings.

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.1.1

But when I disconnect cable and wireless is connected, the same command show no nameserver.

So I followed this instruction, [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StaticDnsWithDhcp](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StaticDnsWithDhcp).

+++++++++++
If you do not use ifupdown, you need to edit /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf 
Find the lines 
#prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
        domain-name, domain-name-servers, host-name,
        netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope;And change them to 
prepend domain-name-servers 1.2.3.4, 1.2.3.5;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
        domain-name, host-name,
        netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope;Replace 1.2.3.4 and 1.2.3.5 with the addresses of your DNS servers. 
Run 
sudo invoke-rc.d networking restartTo make the changes effective: 

+++++++++

I changed to 
prepend domain-name-servers 192.168.1.1;

But it still does not work.

When I see the connection information of wireless, it says IP address 10.42.43.1. 

So I tried it as well and invoke-re.c networking restart, but it did not work either.

Any help will be apprecitaed.

Thanks again.

---

