---
title: "Logitech mouse turns one click into double-click"
date: 2009-02-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dazzlindonna on 2009-02-11
Every now and then, my optical mouse (corded) goes crazy. Clicking just once will often result in two clicks (within any app), which can be hazardous.  Example: I highlight an email in Evolution and click the Delete button.  What occasionally happens?  That email is deleted, the next email is highlighted and deleted as well - as though I hit the delete button twice.

It's happened enough times, with me paying close attention, to know that I'm not accidentally clicking twice.  I'm really clicking just once, and yet the resulting action is as if I'd clicked twice.

I've played with the various Mouse preferences but nothing seems to make a difference.

I'm not sure if I just have a crazy mouse, or if this is indicative of some more general problem that others might have encountered. 

Thoughts?

---

### Post by cdtech on 2009-02-11
I had that happen with my Logitech cordless. I took a Qtip and cleaned the optic lens under the mouse, now it works great. I would try to move a window and it would maximize rather than move.

Hope this helps ya...

---

### Post by dazzlindonna on 2009-02-12
I'll give that a try, thanks.

---

### Post by cdtech on 2009-02-12
Hey, I was born in Louisiana........:P

---

### Post by dazzlindonna on 2009-02-12
Ha!  Well, that either makes you crazy or cool!  :D

---

### Post by cdtech on 2009-02-12
That depends on whom I hang out with.:lolflag:

---

### Post by dazzlindonna on 2009-02-17
FYI: I'm still having the problem. /sigh

---

### Post by battlesound on 2009-02-18
if you could compare your xorg.conf file...

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

You might want to verify that you see **"CorePointer"** in there under the mouse section.  I use the trackball marble mouse and I modified mine a bit, but had a double-click thing going on until I finally added CorePointer in it.

My xorg.conf file looks like this for the mouse:

```
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"MarbleMouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Protocol" "auto"
	Option		"Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Buttons" "5"
	Option		"ButtonMapping" "1 8 3 6 7"
	Option		"EmulateWheel"  "true"
	Option		"EmulateWheelTimeout" "300"  # msec
	Option		"EmulateWheelButton"  "6"
	Option		"YAxisMapping"        "4 5"
EndSection
```

```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	**Inputdevice	"MarbleMouse"		"CorePointer"**
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Screen 		"Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
```

Hope this helps you figure it out.  The "CorePointer" may be in the 1st section under the input device:

```
     Option     "CorePointer"
```

Be careful if you start modifying xorg.conf.  Know ahead of time how to back it up and or to use nano to open up the file and modify it to correct it in case of xorg failure.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-02-18
I don't have a fix, but it might comfort you to know that my Logitech usb, optical mouse occasionally does the same thing. It started years ago on Windows XP. It seemed to always start misbehaving when I was playing video games, and would come and go at random (but always triggered by game play). I didn't have the problem in Linux until I started playing games using wine. Then, the exact same weird behavior as in XP (I'm dual booting on the only computer I've owned for seven years). I've searched fix-it forums for years now and still found no solution. One thread I found a long time ago said this was a known bug in Logitech mice, but I never found another thread relating to the matter. I have cleaned the mouse, plugged it into different usb ports, rebooted, turned off the computer overnight, etc., etc., but still no mouse luv. Someday I'll buy a new mouse, I can't believe this rat has survived so many years.

---

### Post by dazzlindonna on 2009-02-18
Here's my current xorg.conf (haven't changed it yet).  Looks like the entire mouse section is commented out.  What is HAL?

(Maybe I should make the long drive into the nearest "big city" and just buy a new mouse).

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by cdtech on 2009-02-18
> **Hardware Abstraction Layer:**

HAL provides an abstract view on hardware.

This abstraction layer is simply an interface that makes it possible to add support for new devices and new ways of connecting devices to the computer, without modifying every application that uses the device. It maintains a list of devices that currently exist, and can provide information about those upon request. ([http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty/hal](http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty/hal))
The xorg.conf file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) still has the InputDevice for the mouse and keyboard, which are commented due to "input-hotplug" being used.
> The main idea behind keeping the discovery mechanism out of the server was that different systems can use different mechanisms. On GNOME or KDE desktops it would make good sense to use HAL for detection (which is a cross-platform device detection and enumeration system), but an embedded system may well want to use something more lean. ([http://www.x.org/wiki/XInputHotplug](http://www.x.org/wiki/XInputHotplug))
If you use these commented sections within the xorg.conf file (uncomment them) you would have duplicate devices. To use these you actually need to disable hal. You could test this idea by disabling hal and configure your mouse using the xorg.conf file, seeing if it has any effect over your mouse's sporadic issues.

If this does have an effect over your mouse issues you could create an .fdi file within the /etc/hal/fdi/policy/ directory with any configuration needed for your particular mouse. Just remember to restart hal when you have it configured. Here is a Ubuntu wiki page that explains the .fdi files: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Input)

Theres a lot of information about evdev, input-hotplug and hal but I thought I would give you some direction to start. In 8.04 and later a newer version of Xorg was implemented which now supports input-hotplug and now uses different keyboard and mouse configuration files.

Just more reading. Hope this helps...........

---

### Post by dazzlindonna on 2009-02-20
Thanks.  I eventually gave up and bought a new mouse.  It works fine, so I have to assume it was just a hardware issue of a mouse gone bad.  :)

---

### Post by rajan on 2009-11-23
a google search will tell you this is a common problem in logitech mice. i have this problem with my cordless mouse that's only 1.5 yrs old. looks like its time to avoid logitech. 

[http://www.google.com/search?q=logitech+mouse+double+clicking+on+single+click&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&aq=t&rls=com.ubuntu:en-US:unofficial&client=firefox-a](http://www.google.com/search?q=logitech+mouse+double+clicking+on+single+click&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8&aq=t&rls=com.ubuntu:en-US:unofficial&client=firefox-a)

the link above is a google search which shows windows is also vulnerable to this flaw.

---

