---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 Toshiba Satellite U305-S5077 HELP!"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Lord_Sesshomaru on 2009-11-03
UPDATE: I managed to fix all the problems below by updating my Grub Loader.  it seems that of the problems below fixed themseleves (the volume wheel is the only one left) when the correct Kernel version was selected in GRUB when that is manually updated through the Synapitic Software Manager.  In this thread at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298644&highlight=Toshiba+Satellite](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298644&highlight=Toshiba+Satellite) by user JTCA shows how you update GRUB to the latest, in which it will auto detect your old and new kernels.  So I hope this helps out anyone having the same issues I was having.




This past Sunday I upgraded my copy of Ubuntu 9.04 to 9.10 on my Toshiba Satellite U305-S5077.  Following the update I am hoarded with a bunch of problems in which I was hoping the fellow forum users here could help me on.  I'm new to the entire Ubuntu scene, so any explinations could they be broken down as simple as possible, thanks.

1.  Whenever I login to my profile, EVERYTHING graphically will lag on me (Even with the system settings for Apperance set to none)  Whenever I go to open Firefox, to scrolling over the menu, there is alot of noticable lag in between the program loading and going to the actual program.   I lurked on some threads about it being a display driver problem with X11 I believe, but I do not know for sure how to go about checking into that.

2. My laptop has a built-on control for volume lowering, what I noticed is now I no longer can turn down my audio with the wheel on the side, nor can I use any of the multimedia function keys to quick open things such as Firefox (which was set before in 9.04)  I also noticed that I lost audio support alltogether in the upgrade so even though it shows a speaker icon for me and the ability to turn down the volume by manually going to it. I hear nothing sound wise when playing video or audio, which I am assuming there is an audio fix for for this?

3.  The problem (which I am probably going to pin down specifically on the laptop, but could be something else) is that of the weak wireless reporting I get.  At my Cal State University, most of the people in my classes are running machines that are on spec, or similar to mines in terms of processing power, wireless cards, or even different machines like MacBooks.  My main question is wanting to know if there is anyway I can boost through ubuntu the ability to recieve a stronger wireless signal?  It sounds a bit weird, but since I am dual booting on this machine with Windows 7, I can pick up more signals with Ubuntu than I could when I am running Windows 7.

4. Last but not least is my touchpad support, and wanting to know if there is any way in order to make it work again?  In 9.04 I had a fully working mouse with no need to use a USB one unless I was wanting not be lazy, but now with this upgrade, it's as if the touchpad completely will not work.  I looked under mouse settings to see if anything was disabled, but settings that were active on 9.04 are active on 9.10.  So are there any fixes for this?


EDIT:  I forgot to throw in,  since I am dual booting using the GRUB loader, I noticed that my Ubuntu Partitions are showing as 9.04 instead of 9.10.  What I wanted to know is there anyway I could go about editing them in a safe and easy manner without possibly having an Ubuntu partition I can no longer login to.  I know there is gkedit which would let me edit the grub,  but I wanted to know how could I go about editing it in a safe manner to show the change in kernel versions, since there are some elements here that I fully dont have a hand at grasping just yet.

---

