---
title: "strange error smb4k"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by weightgain4000 on 2010-05-01
Hello

Thanks for taking the time to read my post

having a small issue with Smb4k when accessing any share

get the following error

knotify(2926) KNotify::event: 1  ref= 0
kdeinit4: preparing to launch /usr/lib/libkdeinit4_kconf_update.so
smb4k(2881)/kdeui (Wallet): The kwalletd service has been disabled 
smb4k(2881)/kdeui (Wallet): The kwalletd service has been disabled 
knotify(2926) KNotify::event: 2  ref= 0

and a pop up window displaying

Invalid command: net rap share list

Running on Ubuntu 10.04
IBM T400 fresh upgrade install from 9.04
P.S couldnt browse in 9.04 either :p

have tried re-installed samba but hasnt worked

any help appreciated

cheers

John

---

### Post by Hickory420 on 2010-11-04
*bump*

I am getting the same message. I have a fresh install of 10.04.1

smb4k was the first thing i installed and it didn't work.

I am in a domain environment with active directory. I can view shares in other workgroups out side the domain, but can not view shares inside the domain. Scan Computer doesn't work, and I get the "The kwalletd service has been disabled" 

How do I fix this? Thank you!!!

---

### Post by piedro on 2011-02-04
hi guys! 

Just don't use smb4k. It's completely messed up and noone is willing to help, I checked about all forums I could find: 

Messes up: 
1. sudoers file in /etc 
- a serious problem changing rights of a core system file! 
2. can't mount as you'd expect it due to some security concerns withtin the cifs implemention ... 
- just annoying! 
3. messes with your kwallet-configuration ... 
- again something that's really concerning 

This has been a good program but it's useless now. Just don't use it. In my opinion it should be taken out of all repositories until it's either working or replaced with a different software. 


thx for reading, 
piedro

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2011-02-05
> **piedro said:**
> hi guys! 

Just don't use smb4k. It's completely messed up and noone is willing to help, I checked about all forums I could find: 

Messes up: 
1. sudoers file in /etc 
- a serious problem changing rights of a core system file! 
2. can't mount as you'd expect it due to some security concerns withtin the cifs implemention ... 
- just annoying! 
3. messes with your kwallet-configuration ... 
- again something that's really concerning 

This has been a good program but it's useless now. Just don't use it. In my opinion it should be taken out of all repositories until it's either working or replaced with a different software. 


thx for reading, 
piedro


Agreed, 

Here is my fix for the sudoers and to restore use of sudo
My sudoers has some bogus lines which I commented out
See my sudoers file below

> well for now I restored the sudoers to operate normally by selecting recovery mode when the system is booting up

Then run the command:
[QUOTE]visudo


And comment out the lines which Smb4k has added for some reason
> 
# /etc/sudoers
#
# This file MUST be edited with the 'visudo' command as root.
#
# See the man page for details on how to write a sudoers file.
#

Defaults        env_reset

# Host alias specification

# User alias specification

# Cmnd alias specification

# User privilege specification
root    ALL=(ALL) ALL

# Allow members of group sudo to execute any command
# (Note that later entries override this, so you might need to move
# it further down)
#%sudo ALL=(ALL) ALL

#includedir /etc/sudoers.d

# Members of the admin group may gain root privileges
%admin ALL=(ALL) ALL

# Entries for Smb4K users.
# Generated by Smb4K. Please do not modify!
#User_Alias     SMB4KUSERS = agent86
#Defaults:SMB4KUSERS    env_keep += "PASSWD USER"
#SMB4KUSERS     agent86-S2865 = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/smb4k_kill
#SMB4KUSERS     agent86-S2865 = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/smb4k_umount
#SMB4KUSERS     agent86-S2865 = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/smb4k_mount
# End of Smb4K user entries.

All entries are commented out and the only thing that should not commented are these which are not commented out above if you look close:

Defaults        env_reset
root    ALL=(ALL) ALL
%admin ALL=(ALL) ALL

Note that smb4k also had changed this line to read:
#
%sudo ALL=(ALL) ALL
instead of this as it should be:
#%sudo ALL=(ALL) AL


I'm not 100% sure if it should be commented or not so I commented this out and works fine for now.

Once you fix the file and while in the visudo editor:
Save files ctrl+x, then y for yes
Then ctrl+c to exit and your done

Anyhow this won't solve your smb4k troubles but at least will restore you ability to use sudo
I hope this helps[/QUOTE]

---

