---
title: "ATI Dual Screen Help"
date: 2009-01-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-01-12
Hi, I'm trying to get Dual Screen to work on my Ubuntu 8.10, however it won't work, could anyone here please help me out:

I'm trying to work off this: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)

My card is a: Radeon 9600, which is supported.

I did all the steps, however I'm not sure how to config the xorg file. Do I do it manually? If so, where do I get the specific infomation on what my monitors are and stuff. Here is my current xorg file:


```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"fglrx"
EndSection

```

Any help would be greatly appreciated! Thanks!

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-01-12
Can anyone help?

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-01-12
Rebooted Ubuntu now and now it says that I have to run in low graphics mode, I get the following errors as well:

Failed to load module "fglrx" (does not exist)

Can anyone please help?

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-01-13
anyone?

---

### Post by den160593 on 2009-01-15
Please?

---

### Post by johnjohn2 on 2009-01-16
It said you following a post about the radeon driver?

Xorg.conf shows that it is trying to load fglrx which is ATI 3d driver.

Go into hardware drivers and select fglrx if shown!

John

:popcorn:

---

### Post by johnjohn2 on 2009-01-16
Dont give up man i have a 4870 working fine

---

### Post by fsando on 2009-01-24
Hi, I just got my dual monitors to work

My system:
Lenovo t500, 15.4", 1680x1050WSXGA+ TFT, ATI Mobility Radeon 3650
second screen: HP LP2475w 1920x1200

two different resolutions (1680x1024 and 1920x1200), they are detected correctly by my system and set up correctly. I can move 'stuff' from one screen to the other etc. 
 I went through all kind of hoops yesterday to no avail so here's how I see it.
 I started out using the 'envy method' which essentially borg'ed my system leading to a complete reinstall (that's at least my impression but I'm not so sure anymore)

After I tried envy I couldn't get any driver to work correctly and the "hardware drivers" menu wouldn't activate the fglrx driver, when I installed the fgrlx through synaptics it didn't have direct rendering anymore (ie. extremely slow redrawing af screen). After 8-10 hours of reinstalling the same drivers I realized that a full reinstall would be about an hour and a half (I keep my /home on a separate partition so I just left it as is). After that I tried suggestions from this thread about [BigDesktop (2006)]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=301941&page=2"). I read through various xorg.conf examples tried them out and made other changes I thought might have an effect. After some time I applied the following:

1) reboot into recovery mode
2) choose the option "xfix"
3) boot into root
4) ran dpkg-reconfigure and chose not to enable framebuffer (don't know what it is but there is an option) ```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
5) connect second monitor
6) reboot ie. ```
shutdown -r now
```
7) when logged in again 'System > Preferences > Screen Resolution' and see what options are available there.
  For me both screens were recognized with each their own set of possible resolutions (including native resolutions for both screens)
8 ) after choosing appropriate options I had to logout/login

Notes:
1) Catalysts doesn't work anymore. Similarly fglrxinfo and glxinfo returns the following errors:
```
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  143 (GLX)
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19 (X_GLXQueryServerString)
  Serial number of failed request:  10
  Current serial number in output stream:  10

```
I don't know what they mean but my guess is that I'm using the opensource driver.

2) compiz doesn't work either (not a problem for me as I only ever use it to impress others, that little joy is gone now ;) - I guess there is no such thing as a free lunch)

Checked the 'Hardware driver' menu and sure enough the restricted driver is not activated. I'm not even going to try to activate it.

I'll just accept the following for now:

Dual screens with correct resolutions
-> Supported by the opensource driver
-> Not supported by fglrx
3D rendering (or what it's called ie. compiz)
-> Not supported by opensource driver
-> Supported by fglrx

Haven't rebooted yet so 'knock on wood' hopefully it will work next time.

EDIT: btw here's my xorg.conf if it's of any help
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	3600 1200
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by w4uoa on 2009-01-24
Good evening.  I too have dual monitors with an ATI card.  I've been working on this problem on and off since list April.  Both monitors show the same thing great.  Would appreciate notes from anyone who has solved this with an ATI card.

---

### Post by fsando on 2009-01-25
Good morning
I've solved it 'sort of' I've just switched to the fglrx driver in the 'hardware drivers' menu so now running dual screen on the fglrx. I don't know why this is suddenly working. So now I can supposedly switch between the open-source and the closed-source driver at will. 

As I explained above I don't know how exactly I fixed it but there may be something with the Envy-method that breaks things. There are a lot of instructions floating around but AFAIK intrepid does things very differently from earlier versions so following them exactly may not be such a good idea.

It is not perfect though. When I use the open-source driver it uses the analog connection, with fglrx it's the displayport (my screen has many different ports, my laptop has two and I connected both to be safe). 

Size:
With the open-source driver it creates a desktop that is size of one screen plus the size of the other, that is, it will add sizes together in the direction I have chosen (if I choose to have them above each other it will add the heights of the screens while the width will be equal to largest screen).
With fglrx it will create a desktop that is two times the largest screen. When I first tried this out it created a desktop two times the smallest screen (this is of course better). When I maximize a window on the smaller screen it recognizes the screen size correctly. I'm worried though that something will happen outside of view that needs action (like a modal 'ok/cancel' box).

3d rendering (I think that's what it is)
With the open-source driver (which I think has a better approach) googleearth, wine, compiz don't work, they all work with fglrx. A last thing is that I can have individual color settings for the two screens, though the possibilities are quite limited.

So in all I find the approach of the open-source driver better it just isn't as mature or stable as fglrx.

EDIT: just switched back to the open-source driver, the text rendering of the fglrx driver is horrible, the open-source is superior in this field. So now I have to choose either a good looking screen and better understanding of my screens' geometry but several programs not working and no individual color control or I have to live with horrible text.

btw. When switching logout/login is not always enough sometimes both screens are black even though everything appears to work normally (I can log in because I know the sequence and hear the login sound etc.)

---

