---
title: "16.04: Installed NVIDIA drivers and CUDA; no launcher icons and cannot open shell"
date: 2016-09-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pchoy95 on 2016-09-07
Hi all,

I'm in a bit of a dire situation. I switched to NVIDIA proprietary drivers using the GUI, and installed CUDA 7.5. Every time I do this to install CUDA,  the launcher icons disappear, but I am always able to solve the problem by opening a terminal with Ctrl-Alt-f1 and  changing the driver version.

Unfortunately this time (presumably somehow due to the 16.04 upgrade), Ctrl-Alt-f1 does not open a terminal.

I have tried booting to recovery mode, but the terminal accessible from there gives me a read-only filesystem. (not really sure how to use recovery mode).

Has anyone had this problem yet? What can I do to open a terminal?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by Jimysbil on 2016-09-07
I had exactly the same problem with my old Desktop-PC (Motherboard 775dual-vsta - GPU NVIDIA GeForce GT 220) with 340.96 drivers installed.When I was trying to boot the normal way I couldn't press CTL+ALT+F1 to reach terminal and the only thing I was able to see was a blinking dash.When I was trying to boot in recovery mode I had the error access denied too.

You should be able to pass this error by remounting the root (/) of my system as rw.
```
mount -o remount,rw /
```
After that use the command:
```
apt-get purge nvidia-*
```
It should remove everything about NVIDIA drivers.

But I think it won't help you out because when I tried to remove the driver with apt-get the shell got crushed.

If that doesn't help you out when you are on grub boot menu (normal boot entry) press 'e' button and add the 'nomodeset' parameter to the end of your 'linux' line.Then you try CTL+ALT+F1 combination again.
I did it this way in order to remove my drivers and after multiple tries it worked.
If you have other kernels I think you should try to boot with them too.

---

