---
title: "Viewing pdf files in chromium-browser"
date: 2011-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by r.stiltskin on 2011-01-14
In Ubuntu 10.04, installed Chrome from the Ubuntu repos: chromium-browser 8.0.552.224-r6859

According to about:plugins mozplugger is supposed to be handling pdf, ps, ppt mime types, but for all of these I get a black browser window saying "Missing Plug-in".

I'd like to view these filetypes inside the browser using either adobe reader (8.1.6) or evince (or even just gv).

Here is an excerpt from /etc/mozpluggerrc:
```


application/pdf:pdf:PDF file
application/x-pdf:pdf:PDF file
text/pdf:pdf:PDF file
text/x-pdf:pdf:PDF file
	ACROREAD()
	repeat noisy swallow(kpdf) fill: kpdf "$file"
	repeat noisy swallow(Xpdf) fill: xpdf -g +9000+9000 "$file"
	repeat noisy swallow(okular) fill: okular "$file"
	GV()
	repeat noisy fill exits: evince "$file"

application/x-dvi:dvi:DVI file
        repeat swallow(kdvi) fill: kdvi "$file"
	repeat swallow(xdvi) fill: xdvi -safer -hush -geometry +9000+9000 "$file"

application/x-postscript:ps:PostScript file
application/postscript:ps:PostScript file
	GV()
	repeat noisy fill exits: evince "$file"


```

Is something missing/wrong in this configuration, or is this version of the browser simply incapable of using these applications to display these filetypes?

I have no problem viewing these files in Firefox.

I do NOT want to install the Chrome pdf-viewer plugin.

---

### Post by COKEDUDE on 2011-01-14
Evince document viewer works fine. Is there something wrong with that?

---

### Post by r.stiltskin on 2011-01-14
Are you using Ubuntu 10.04?  chromium-browser 8.0.552.224-r6859?

Are you saying that you can open pdfs with Evince *inside a chromium-browser window*?  (I can't.)

If your answers to all of the above are yes, would you mind posting your /etc/mozpluggerrc file?

---

### Post by r.stiltskin on 2011-01-14
Solved.  chromium-browser can now open .pdf and .ps files in either acroread, evince or gv.  All that was needed was a minor change in the commands to start these programs in etc/mozpluggerrc.  (The primary change was to add "needs_xembed" to the macros.)

Near the top of /etc/mozpluggerrc there is a section headed by
###################
### m4 macros   ###
###################

Near the end of that section I found definitions for ACROREAD and GV, but both were incorrect, and there was none for Evince.  I edited it so now I have the following definitions:
```

### Acrobat Reader
define(ACROREAD, [repeat swallow(acroread) fill needs_xembed : acroread -openInNewWindow /a "$fragment" "$file"])

### GV
define(GV_OPTS,[--safer --quiet --antialias -geometry +9000+9000])
define(GV_FLAGS,[repeat swallow(gv) fill needs_xembed])
define(GV,[GV_FLAGS(): gv GV_OPTS() "$file"])

### Evince
define(EVINCE, [repeat swallow(evince) fill needs_xembed: evince "$file"])

```

Next, further down in the file there are lines containing the following:
application/pdf:pdf:PDF file
application/x-pdf:pdf:PDF file
text/pdf:pdf:PDF file
text/x-pdf:pdf:PDF file

and:
application/x-postscript:ps:PostScript file
application/postscript:ps:PostScript file

Following each line or group of lines, just paste in the macro for the application that you want to use for those filetypes.  e.g., to use acroread for .pdf files and evince for .ps files:
```

application/pdf:pdf:PDF file
application/x-pdf:pdf:PDF file
text/pdf:pdf:PDF file
text/x-pdf:pdf:PDF file
	ACROREAD()

application/x-postscript:ps:PostScript file
application/postscript:ps:PostScript file
	EVINCE()

```

Note: I found the essential clue for this solution in the following bugzilla entry:
[https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=585475]("https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=585475")

---

### Post by raghuramos1987 on 2011-05-15
@r.stiltskin Thanks! you saved my day!

---

### Post by shoffm on 2011-08-29
This totally just saved me from a professor who seems determined to screw anyone not using Windows. Thanks for the fix!

---

### Post by Drew Woodard on 2011-10-28
thanks, this helped.

---

### Post by apolo8 on 2011-12-24
Really helpfull.

Thanks for your effort

---

### Post by zgrge on 2012-01-09
Can someone confirm if that is working in 11.10 with Unity?

Can't get it embed, pdfs open in it's own evince window :(

(and yes I have needs_xembed in options, same mozpluggerrc worked fine in gentoo)

---

### Post by zgrge on 2012-01-15
bump

---

### Post by zgrge on 2012-01-29
Please someone confirm if it is still working in 11.10 with evince 3 and chromium 16

---

### Post by HadiA on 2012-05-06
Thanks, it works :)

---

### Post by ggordon on 2013-02-10
This solution worked for me too.  However, I noticed a warning at the top of the mozpluggerrc file to not modify the file because it is automatically generated by update-mozpluggerrc using templates in /etc/mozpluggerrc.d.  It warned that changes to the file would be lost during upgrades.

So I made the changes to the files 40-global_defs.conf and 62-documents.conf.  Then I ran update-mozpluggerrc to generate a new version of mozpluggerrc.

This worked, but I am wondering whether the template files might also be changed during upgrades and these modifications lost.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2013-02-10
If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.

---

