---
title: ".exe files..."
date: 2008-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chugeniv on 2008-05-08
Hi,

Is it possible to install .exe files if the product does not come in a Linux version?:confused:

Thanks,
Bob

---

### Post by mardawi on 2008-05-08
sometimes, and it will rarely work without problems.

You need to install wine to run native win32 exes, write in the terminal:

```

sudo apt-get install wine

```

and mono to run .net exes
```

sudo apt-get install mono

```

then double-click the exes and cross fingers that they would work

---

### Post by skymera on 2008-05-08
Ok search these forums, plenty of support will be availible.

By default, Linux doesn't run .exe files.

However, WINE can run them. Not all of them run well, Utorrent, steam games run very well. Comparable to WinXP.

Others wont run so well, or run at all, best just to try them.

```
 sudo apt-get install wine 
```

[www.winehq.org](www.winehq.org) for more information and their extensive Wine AppDB.

Skymera ^_^

---

### Post by Choad on 2008-05-08
> **skymera said:**
> These threads just keep coming and coming

Will a .exe run? no.
**Will a .exe ever run natively? no.**
Does WINE run .exe? Yes.
Does WINE run .exe well? Not Really.

Follow the above post. Sigh.
well sorry to piss on your party but i run full tilt poker natively every day

just because it doesn't use microsoft's libraries doesn't mean it's not running natively ;)

also the guy was just asking a question. no need to get all pissy. if it is *such* a hassle that these threads are made, why do you feel the need to post irrelevant rants in them?

to the OP: install the program "wine" and you may have some success. it's hit and miss but a lot of stuff does work.

---

### Post by didooofidooo on 2008-05-08
i think that the best way to do this is through a virtual machiene.
you can use "Virtual Box" and install windows on it then you can run any windows stuff on the new virtual machine.
but i recommend not using "virtual box" if your RAM is less than 512 Mb

---

### Post by skymera on 2008-05-08
> **Choad said:**
> well sorry to piss on your party but i run full tilt poker natively every day

just because it doesn't use microsoft's libraries doesn't mean it's not running natively ;)

also the guy was just asking a question. no need to get all pissy. if it is *such* a hassle that these threads are made, why do you feel the need to post irrelevant rants in them?

to the OP: install the program "wine" and you may have some success. it's hit and miss but a lot of stuff does work.

There are countless numbers of these threads.
A basic search will reveal many answers and lots of support.

EO.

@ Didnt mean to rant - Bad day, sorry shoulda checked what i was writing.
*Edits original*

---

### Post by chugeniv on 2008-05-08
Thanks all!

Bob

---

### Post by Kapitan on 2008-06-14
> **mardawi said:**
> 
[CUT]

and mono to run .net exes
```

sudo apt-get install mono

```

then double-click the exes and cross fingers that they would work

i'm interested in this.

How can ubuntu manage .net exes?

I mean, i think it extract some info from them,
but then is there a configuration file to
start running the .net runtime?

---

