---
title: "11.04 VPN slowness"
date: 2011-04-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by StormeRider on 2011-04-07
I have a VPN configured in Ubuntu in what's typically referred to as "Split VPN" configuration. Meaning that only traffic designated for certain routes actually passes out the VPN, the rest of the traffic goes out the normal default gateway to the internet.

Since upgrading to 11.04, I've noticed a significant performance drop when accessing sites (via HTTP/S and SSH) not on the VPN. Even SSHing to a machine on my local LAN takes a considerable amount of time. Once the connections are established, they seem fine, but there's an up-front lag to making a new connection.

At first I thought that maybe something had broken in the routing and it was sending all traffic through the VPN. I confirmed with traceroutes that this is not the case (and if it were, local resources would not be accessible). I then thought that since I was using the DNS servers from the VPN, that it was poor DNS performance causing issues. I even went so far as to install nscd to help, something I never thought to touch again after many years of battling it back in the SunOS days. It helped a little, but not significantly.

Any ideas what else could be causing the slowness? I've checked with Firefox just to make sure it's not browser specific (I use Chrome). It makes browsing Facebook and Livejournal quite painful (although LJ being under a DDoS makes it hard for me to tell if it's my problem or theirs).

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-07
It would be great if you could report this in Launchpad:
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/)

---

### Post by StormeRider on 2011-04-07
I wouldn't begin to know what to report it under. NetworkManager? I ran ubuntu-bug and selected other and it said I needed to specify a package or PID...

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-04-08
I guess so, but I am not sure. 
You can report it there, and then people can later move it to another package, if it was wrong.

---

