---
title: "10.04 to 10.10"
date: 2010-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Virtueofselfishness on 2010-10-21
i did the upgrade thru the update manager but when i rebooted my comp, my computer didnt go pass the black screen with the bar blinking i hope you guys know what black screen im talking about

---

### Post by Virtueofselfishness on 2010-10-21
bump plz

---

### Post by James78 on 2010-10-21
How did you upgrade, did you edit anything, any specific behavior, any messages, images?

If you can give anything more, we need it.

Although on a note, Grub might simply be damaged. You could try re-installing it.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling GRUB 2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling GRUB 2)

---

### Post by Virtueofselfishness on 2010-10-21
nope i just followed the installation :/ maybe ill just do a fresh install

---

### Post by eze1969 on 2010-10-21
I upgraded. It was a bit bumpy but I can't say I experienced the "black screen" you did. I did do a clean reinstall just because I seem to have a fascination with partitioning and I seem to learn more by making mistakes and fixing them hehe. But I'm pretty much an Ubuntu noob, so I doubt my advice would be of much use. One of the MANY things I love about Ubuntu is the limited time a clean reinstall takes. 30 minutes versus 3 hours for a Win 7 install...gotta love that :P

---

### Post by James78 on 2010-10-21
> **eze1969 said:**
> I upgraded. It was a bit bumpy but I can't say I experienced the "black screen" you did. I did do a clean reinstall just because I seem to have a fascination with partitioning and I seem to learn more by making mistakes and fixing them hehe. But I'm pretty much an Ubuntu noob, so I doubt my advice would be of much use. One of the MANY things I love about Ubuntu is the limited time a clean reinstall takes. 30 minutes versus 3 hours for a Win 7 install...gotta love that :P
Yup! Ubuntu doesn't take any longer than it needs to to install. Win 7 has all those splash screens, setup user stuff. Ubuntu just incorporates it into one, and gets right down to business.

---

### Post by soldier1st on 2010-10-22
i had the issue as well. first grub was damaged then when i fixed it a black screen appeared and then i fixed grub again but not from the live DVD session but from the rescue system when you boot the DVD/CD.

---

