---
title: "11.10 problems"
date: 2011-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by choochoousmc on 2011-11-03
# 1 developers  give us an option what desktop we want during install
       personal opinion unity is crap. It is NOT intuitive. Too many mouse clicks to
       find and open what we need. Classic drop down menus was much easier and   
      cleaner.
#2  Better help in being able to use Gpartd during fresh install.
       I had a 160 gig drive, divided in 35 gig for Ubuntu and 140(?) gig for data etc.
        Ubuntu insisted using whole drive for a full install. The other options were not 
        viable for me. As I had a problem with system before doing the upgrade. Hoped 
       the up grade, actually complete fresh install, would correct but did not.

NOW THE PROBLEM
for two years my usb port would read and write to flash drives various sizes and a seagate  350 gig usb external hard drive powered via the USB port.
Last week While connecting both the drive and flash drive something went wrong
Now the flash drives are ok. But the system will NOT recognize and mount the external hard drive.  Can't believe it is a system hardware problem. If so why would it mount a flash  drive / memory stick but not a hard drive?

I hoped a complete fresh install of Ubuntu 11.10 would correct but no.

ANYBODY got an idea of what to do to get an external hard drive recognized.
one is a full hard drive 350 gig, the other is divided in 1/2 only one half has data on it.
Both are in NTFS as they also need to be windows compatible.

---

### Post by galvatron408 on 2011-11-04
So, what happens when you look at /proc/scsi/scsi ? On my ubuntu 11.10, I can clearly see my Corsair SSD, both CD-Roms and my Hitachi 2TB external drive. 

ThinkPad-T61:~$ cat /proc/scsi/scsi 
Attached devices:
Host: scsi0 Channel: 00 Id: 00 Lun: 00
  Vendor: ATA      Model: Corsair CSSD-F40 Rev: 2.0 
  Type:   Direct-Access                    ANSI  SCSI revision: 05
Host: scsi1 Channel: 00 Id: 00 Lun: 00
  Vendor: HL-DT-ST Model: DVDRAM GSA-U10N  Rev: 1.05
  Type:   CD-ROM                           ANSI  SCSI revision: 05
Host: scsi2 Channel: 00 Id: 00 Lun: 00
  Vendor: ASUS     Model: SDRW-08D2S-U     Rev: A303
  Type:   CD-ROM                           ANSI  SCSI revision: 00
Host: scsi3 Channel: 00 Id: 00 Lun: 00
  Vendor: Hitachi  Model: HDS723020BLA642  Rev:     
  Type:   Direct-Access                    ANSI  SCSI revision: 02

---

