---
title: ".ecryptfs folder as big as my user home folder? How do I change this?"
date: 2011-09-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ederico on 2011-09-19
Hello everyone,

My thread title might not give the idea. Basically, I noticed that I was lacking space on my hdd. Using the disk analyzer I found out that the .ecryptfs folder was as big as my user's (myself) home folder.

Now, how do I change this? I had selected encryption for said folder, but frankly I don't think I need it at all (or at least, not for the entire home folder). How do I change this? I don't think deleting the contents of .ecryptfs is ideal, or at least I don't want to try it as I don't know the repurcussions!

Thanks beforehand.

---

### Post by foureyesboy on 2011-09-19
Did you select to encrypt your entire $HOME?  In such case, /home/.ecryptfs stores the actual encrypted data of your $HOME.  And that's why it is as large as your $HOME.

---

### Post by Ederico on 2011-09-19
Yes I did.

---

### Post by Ederico on 2011-09-25
This problem hasn't been resolved yet, I appreciate any assistance that could be given. The problem in question is that the .ecryptfs folder is too big for my needs as I definitely do not feel the need for encryption (and if I would, it would definitely not be the entire home folder).

---

### Post by foureyesboy on 2011-09-28
> **Ederico said:**
> This problem hasn't been resolved yet, I appreciate any assistance that could be given. The problem in question is that the .ecryptfs folder is too big for my needs as I definitely do not feel the need for encryption (and if I would, it would definitely not be the entire home folder).

I don't understand exactly what you mean by "the .ecryptfs folder is too big for your needs".  It IS your encrypted data since you've chosen to encrypt your entire home, and therefore it MUST be as large as your home.  It does NOT take you up additional disk space, because only the encrypted data is stored.  The disk analysis reports the space use repeatedly as in /home/.ecryptfs/$USER and /home/$USER.  Think of /home/$USER as just a phantom, which disappears when you log yourself off and therefore doesn't take up physical disk space.  If you run out of disk space, all you can do is to remove something from your $HOME, not from .ecryptfs cuz filenames under .ecryptfs are encrypted and you don't know which one is which.

But for whatever reason you no longer want your $HOME to be encrypted, you may do the following.  Mind you that it is risky and may cause data loss if done wrong.
1) Do a full back up of your decrypted $HOME directory to a safe place or external storage.
2) Login as another user with proper sudo (or admin) rights.
3) rm /home/<USER>/.ecryptfs and /home/<USER>/.Private
4) rm -r /home/.ecryptfs/<USER>
5) chmod u+w /home/<USER>
6) Login back to <USER> 
7) restore the backed up data to /home/<USER>

---

### Post by t0p on 2011-09-28
**@Ederico:** Do you want your /home/username directory to be encrypted?  If yes, that's what's happened.  Your entire /home/username directory is encrypted, therefore ecryptfs is the same size as the /home/username directory.  What else did you expect?

If you i]don't[/i] want your entire /home/username directory to be encrypted, you should not have opted for encryption of that directory.  I've never ended up in that particular pickle (ie I have never encrypted stuff that I didn't want encrypted).  But anyway, foureyesboy's solution may help you out (I can't testify as to its efficacy as I haven't tried).

In future, if you want *some* but not all the contents of /home/username encrypted, use a tool like **truecrypt** to encrypt the stuff you want encrypted.  That way, disk space will not be used up encrypting anything that  doesn't need encrypting.

Incidentally, why does the size of ecryptfs pose a problem?  Do you have very limited disk space?  If the answer is "no", why not leave things as they are?  Encryption is cool, and you may not know you need it until the day you think "Darn, I wish I'd encrypted that."  Stick with encryption unless you have a *good* reason to abandon it.

---

### Post by graphius on 2011-10-21
My son is having this exact problem. He has a 130 GB partition for Ubuntu. His home folder is about 64 GB and the .ecrpytfs is 64 GB leaving him with only 2 GB free. If the ~/home directory is only a link (in essence) why does he have not have enough free space?

PS As a workaround I have suggested he move all his video and music files into /var and just have a link in /home... Would this work to keep the encrypted file smaller?

---

### Post by messie on 2011-11-12
This does not make sense. I have two home folders shown in my /home/ directory, one encrypted and one that i can see, both under my username. What is the point of having twice the same data?

My disk space is depleting, so the unencrypted home folder that i can see is not fantom at all, i just have twice the same data in my home folder. What is the point of this? Is there a workaround or do i have to use twice the size of my home folder in case i want it to be encrypted?

---

### Post by Ederico on 2011-11-13
> **foureyesboy said:**
> I don't understand exactly what you mean by "the .ecryptfs folder is too big for your needs".  It IS your encrypted data since you've chosen to encrypt your entire home, and therefore it MUST be as large as your home.  It does NOT take you up additional disk space, because only the encrypted data is stored.  The disk analysis reports the space use repeatedly as in /home/.ecryptfs/$USER and /home/$USER.  Think of /home/$USER as just a phantom, which disappears when you log yourself off and therefore doesn't take up physical disk space.  If you run out of disk space, all you can do is to remove something from your $HOME, not from .ecryptfs cuz filenames under .ecryptfs are encrypted and you don't know which one is which.

1. So, if I am getting this right there's no actual physical space being used?

2. However, that ecypts folder is shown as being of the same size as the home folder, meaning that I can't use that space anyways? Is that space available or not? That's the question.

My space constraints aren't urgent, so I won't use your proposed solution anytime soon (and I'd do a backup for sure), but I'd like to understand this encryption thing well.

---

### Post by markling on 2012-08-26
I have the same problem as Ederico.

How do I resolve this without accidentally corrupting my backup?

I had used the standard Ubuntu option to encrypt my data when I installed. The home folder was 40Gb. I copied it to a backup drive. Now, organising my backups, I tried to copy the backed-up folder to another location with 50Gb free space. But the file operation said I didn't have enough space. The properties of the backed-up home folder say its size is 40Gb. But when I tell the Nautilus file browser to view hidden files, I see that there is a folder called .ecryptfs. This doubles the size of the home folder, when I try and copy it, to 80Gb.

This raises a host of questions about the robustness of the encryption that, while important, are less helpful to the immediate task in hand of securing the backup data; but are nevertheless worth mentioning: is my backup folder 40Gb or 80Gb? If it's 80Gb, how can that be when there's only 40Gb of data there? If its only taking up 40Gb, why will it not let me copy it to another location with only that much space? I copied the files without including the .ecryptfs folder and the file operation completed fine, and copied 40Gb of files. I can view them without entering a password. I can also view them on the original backed up drive without entering a password. What's the point of encrypting the data if the encryption isn't persistent? It's like waterproofing a barn but leaving the door open. Why has this seemed to create such a mess? What do I have to do to secure my backup of my encrypted data? Do I have to encrypt it again? Will it then be three times the size of the original data or four times the size? If I then copy the encrypted encrypted backup to another drive will it be wide open again? And will I then need to encrypt it again to protect it? Will it then be four times the size of the original or eight times? Or will it only actually be 40Gb still? Do you have to join the magic circle before anyone will reveal the true answers to these questions and not merely reply by snootily implying I'm some sort of idiot for not knowing that when I allowed Ubuntu to encrypt my data it would make such a hash (ahem) of it?

But the crucial question is:

If I delete the .ecrypfs folder on the backup to save space, will I corrupt the files and ruin my backup?

I can probably work this out for myself, but I shouldn't have to. The software should tell me what is and what isn't happening, especially if it's only half-finished. Imagine if a civil engineer designed the Spaghetti Junction flyover but left one of the roads unfinished so it went off into the abyss - and then didn't bother to put up sign-posts - and then it just so happened that if you were a civil engineer driving round the junction, the shoddy bit of road was designed in such a way that you could see where it was going and though you might end up with your car hanging over the precipice, it was okay because you took pride in your ability to be able to manoeuvre out of such situations, and even got an elitist's kick out of seeing less experienced drivers careen over the edge. Imagine then if you went round telling people this particular junction was designed with less experienced drivers in mind.

---

### Post by markling on 2012-08-26
Some helpful reflection on this problem for other numpty users:

When you ask in the forums about backing up and restoring data, the techies say, 'What, molova, you didn't even know that all you have to do is copy your home folder? Ha ha.' Or words to that effect.

So when it comes to backing up your Ubuntu-encrypted data, you just copy your home folder, and rather sheepishly. But this copies both the encrypted folder and the unencrypted folder.

(Presumably, it unencrypts locally on the fly? So that it looks like there's two folders in your local drive, one encrypted and one not, when really there's only the one encrypted folder and the non-encrypted view is unveiled to you as you open it?).

(If you copy data from your encrypted hard drive, I guess you really don't, as I suggested before, want the encryption to be persistent, unless you really are backing the whole thing up.)

So you can back up an ecryptfs encrypted drive by copying the user folder, not the home folder.

Is that right? The folder in your home folder with your username on it. You'll have to chance your luck to the wind that this will allow you to backup and restore just as you would if you had done it 'just by copying your home folder, molova'. It's only your data backup at stake - don't worry about it!

I mean, that's all clear and certain now isn't it? Its not at all like one of those insurance policies you take out and only realise there might be a problem when you have to make a claim on it and you are asked to turn to those reams and reams of small print, is it? What, you didn't read the small print, molova?

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-08-26
The /home/.ecryptfs directory holds your encrypted files.

For example if your username is markling you will find:
/home/.ecryptfs/markling/.ecryptfs  (this contains the encrypted passphrase)
and
/home/.ecryptfs/markling/.Private  (this contains your encrypted files)

When you login, the system uses ecryptfs to virtually mount your home directory to /home/markling. I say virtual as it is really just a looking glass that allows you to view the otherwise indecipherable contents of /home/.ecryptfs/markling/.Private. There is physically nothing in /home/markling - what you see there is actually the contents of /home/.ecryptfs/markling/.Private decrypted on the fly as required by ecryptfs.

If you were to create another user account on your system and login using that and take a look at /home/markling you would see just a couple of small text files explaining how to go about mounting the encrypted files.

The transparency of this ecryptfs setup confuses other elements of the operating system. For example, say you have 40GB of files in your home directory, the likes of Disk Usage Analyser will "see" 40GB used at both  /home/.ecryptfs/markling/.Private and /home/markling totalling 80GB - but actually only 40GB is physically used on the disk.

Have a read of this for more in-depth on how ecryptfs works: [http://landley.net/kdocs/ols/2005/ols2005v1-pages-209-226.pdf](http://landley.net/kdocs/ols/2005/ols2005v1-pages-209-226.pdf)

So, onto your more specific question about backups.

If you back up the entirety of /home whilst logged in you will indeed end up with a copy of your files in both encrypted form (/home/.ecryptfs) and unencrypted form (/home/markling).

Either
A. backup /home/.ecryptfs **whilst logged out** and make yourself familiar with how to restore an encrypted home directory in its entirety.

B. backup /home/markling **whilst logged in** using some backup routine or application that encrypts what it backs up. For example DejaDup (the default Backup app in Ubuntu) offers to encrypt its backups - you just need to provide it a password to use (if you forget it you will not be able to restore your files). There are many other backup applications that do similar.


My personal strategy is that I have an external USB hard drive encrypted with LUKS that I simply copy /home/myuser too. Once the drive is unplugged all its contents are encrypted and inaccessible without knowing the passphrase.

The ecryptfs home directory setup is confusing when you first encounter it, but once you understand how it is working then it becomes incredibly simple. Like anything I guess :)

---

### Post by fermilesi on 2012-12-10
So let me see if I get it right:

[when logged in]
. if I want  to copy data to any folder in my computer (say, using Nautilus, from a  USB pendrive to the Documents folder), I copy to ~/Documents as usual  [this is, to /home/USER/Documents]. However, it will "not really" stay  there unencrypted but moved automagically to  /home/.ecryptfs/USER/.Private in encrypted form.

. if I want to get data out in unencrypted form (say, using Nautilus to a USB pendrive) you just do as usual (this is, from ~/Documents to the mounted USB drive)

. if you want to backup your unencrypted home folder, then you backup ~ (or /home/USER/)

. if you want to backup your encrypted data, you backup /home/.ecryptfs/USER [unless you opt for a different encryption program/system]. Though if something collapses I still don't know how to get this back in, though hope is never lost...

OK??? :confused:

---

