---
title: "11.10 running slow, can't find a reason why"
date: 2012-02-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by prattmt on 2012-02-19
I'm running ubuntu 11.10 on an HP Mini 210. It's been running really slow with a lot of lagging, and for some reason every time I try to open the dash it gives me TONS of lag, and the software center won't load at all and almost crashes my entire system.

Can anyone help me to figure out what's lagging me so hard?

Thanks!
Mary

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-02-19
It's probably not a good idea to run regular ubuntu on a netbook. I tried on mine, and it was too slow. But I installed Lubuntu and now it's much faster.

---

### Post by prattmt on 2012-02-19
I never had a problem with any of the 10. editions, and haven't had a problem with 11.10 until within the last week or two.

---

### Post by shubham1 on 2012-02-20
what you can do is to check if many applications are running in background
you can do this by opening system monitor and check which are taking highest processor or memory
do not kill applications until you are sure that they are unusefull.
like compiz will run you can use different pc tuner softwares

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2012-02-20
Check System Monitor to see how much memory you are using. I'm assuming you only have 1gb ram.

---

### Post by BJCV86 on 2012-02-20
So I think Ubuntu has to have 2GB RAM and 512MB Video card and 40GB ATA100+ 7200RPM or those new SATA Solid State drives work best for the latest editions of Ubuntu. To be honest. Unless you upgrade as cheap as you can to current desktop performance. Ubuntu like any operating now days, will like a lot of extra room to put all the stuff. Net books I suppose are limited in bandwidth possibilities.

---

### Post by mardybear on 2012-02-20
> **prattmt said:**
> I never had a problem with any of the 10. editions, and haven't had a problem with 11.10 until within the last week or two.
Hi prattmt...

If everything was running well and then slowdown it could be related to a recent software or kernel upgrade. Run update-manager again and ensure you have the latest software in case there were some bug fixes. Reboot and see if anything changed.

Disregard the netbook = low computer power argument...it's got plenty of horsepower. I'm running Ubuntu on an 800MHz system with 256MB ram.

If updating your system didn't help, you should also try/select an older kernel in the grub boot menu and see if it makes a difference. I still use 10.04 (lucid) long term support and noticed some problems after the latest kernel update (2.6.32.25-386). So for now i boot into an older kernel (2.6.32.21-386) and patiently wait for the next version, hoping it works better.

Maybe this will help. Certainly worth a try.

mardybear

---

