---
title: "11.04 Server- problem from disabling password"
date: 2011-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nab16 on 2011-10-23
Hi everyone,

So I was setting up a Ubuntu 11.04 Server, along with the Ubunut GUI for easier support.  I went into the user settings and I disabled the login password requirement, because I wanted the server to automatically boot up into the GUI without logging in.

After disabling it, i am now getting the "Cannot update .ICEauthority"

I tried these already:
chown user:user /home/user/.ICEauthority
chmod 644 /home/user/.ICEauthority
exit.

( I get the response of "no directory or file exists" or something like that)

I also did that above with the $HOME instead of username'

 I believe this is could be because I had the home encryption turned on.  I made another user account through the root command prompt, and went to users, and reactivated the password logon on the main account, but it still doesnt fix it. 

This is very critical for this company I am building this for, so all help is appreciated.

I also have another quick question, I was trying to auto logon to the GUI because I have a virtualmachine of WIndows 7 that is hosting a server application, so if I get the errors fixed, is there any way I can make it that when I turn on the server, it automatically logs onto the GUI?

Thanks

---

### Post by nab16 on 2011-10-23
I figured it out.  

To fix this you have to create a new user account, and then go into your User & Accounts, and re-enable "require password"

Then in a terminal I had to type "encryptfs-rewrap-passcode", to change the encrypted passcode to the one set in the user account settings.

---

