---
title: "Big hassles with nVidia 9300/730i"
date: 2009-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by _ragman_ on 2009-07-04
Hi y'all,

I haven't played with Linux since the mid '90s but having just build a new box wanted to get back into it in semi-serious way.  I'm having problems strait up though with nVidia 9300/730i setup on the Zotac GeForce 9300 mobo.  I'm using the 180.44 driver but can only get it to recognise the VGA and not DVI. Display Preferences can't recognise the monitor but the driver can.  Neither can I enable Visual Effects. :(

I've downloaded and tried to build  NVIDIA-Linux-x86-185.18.14-pkg1.run but it wants me to shutdown X and in my ignorance I don't know how to do that. I've tried a recovery boot into root and the script said it wanted run level 3 not 1. 'telinit 3' just threw me back into X which I thought was level 5? (please excuse any ignorant terminology I might use here.)

Any help would be much appreciated. It's a bit disheartening to come back to linux after a decade and still have to wrestle its guts into alignment.

Cheers
ragman

---

### Post by psycosmyth on 2009-07-04
ctl alt backspace, simply logs out to the GDM welcome screen, but this also resets xorg. If nothing changed then the module did not take. I am not the one for that answer since I almost went nuts over my Nvidia card.

---

### Post by _ragman_ on 2009-07-04
Well I've gone through every auto and manual install post I could find and still haven't got anywhere.
I get "Ubuntu is running in low graphics mode..." then "There is already an Xserver running on display :0.", then prompts to start on a different display. I've had "failed to initialise the NVIDIA kernal module." messages.  The NVIDIA...run script doesn't find a precompiled interface and so complies one with apparent success, but still no cheese.  This is all on a clean install. 

It's doing my head in, theres so much I wanted to do with this machine.

---

### Post by mishaokami on 2009-08-04
Hey... just bought one of these myself and have it mostly working just fine.  The graphics are an issue.  Though if you are using it as a single seat system you should notice none of this.

the xserver running issue is a result of you restarting X and having a lock file sitting around somewhere.  dunno where it is, but it gets cleaned up after a reboot.

i installed jaunty and then the stock v180 from the ubuntu repos and it worked fine for me.  start Preferences->Display and it will bring up the nvidia settings manager.  i would suggest activating both monitors using nvidias twinview (it's an option in the gui) 

hope it helps,
m

---

### Post by mishaokami on 2009-08-04
also, ctrl alt backspace will not work anymore.
in jaunty they left the DontZap option out of xorg.conf so new users dont accidentally hit it and screw their gui session.

If you care, you can easily add it back in.
m

---

### Post by _ragman_ on 2009-08-04
Hmm lucky you. I can't see anything youve done that I didn't. Oh well.
 I'm dual booting Fedora and Windows 7 RC now but the windows install wiped grub and though I've managed to get it back, Fedora spits when I try to configure it.

Ultimately I wanted a bare-metal hypervisor so I could just flick between OS's without the reboot but I had to get the only Core 2 Quad that doesn't have VT (Q8200s) painful lesson that one.

I rekon I'm just going to wait until Windows 7 is released and virtualise off that. I'm currently running VirtualBox  but it doesn't look to handle physical partitions very well so I'm still stuck with a reboot between the two OS's for the moment.

Thanks for your help though.
ragman

---

### Post by mishaokami on 2009-08-05
dunno how compatible this would be with fedora but my xorg.conf follows:
3 notes: 
first the nvidia driver 180 has a bunch of new code in it apparently. it is not baked yet. i've tried turning on compositing(3d effects) in both metacity and compiz. both make the server crash. just turn off all effects in the appearance config under system-> prefs and wait for the next driver revision.
im pretty stable now and can even run other 3d stuff without hassle.

second: for your stuff you might want to enable xinerama to extend your desktop in a more sensible way for a single user.

3rd: Use your existing InputDevices and Monitor sections

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" LeftOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
#    Option      "Xinerama" "1"
    Option	"DontZap"	"False"
    Option      "AutoAddDevices" "False"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    #Driver         "mouse"

    Driver         "evdev"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/by-id/usb-wireless_inc_tw_wireless_usb_device-event-joystick"

    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    #Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    #Driver         "kbd"
    Driver         "evdev"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/by-id/usb-1241_1203-event-kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "FUS L24W-4"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer B203W"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9300 / nForce 730i"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9300 / nForce 730i"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

