---
title: "Screen resoultion changed from 1024x768 to 640x480"
date: 2006-07-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kelean on 2006-07-11
Im not sure how it happened but when I booted up Ubuntu 6.06 I got a BIG suprise.  With a 17 inch monitor 640x480 is WAY to big.  The login screen is normal and every thing else is huge.

I looked at my /etc/X11.xorg.config file and it looks the same as it did when i installed ubuntu a few weeks ago.  I have not had any problems other than the resilution problem.

Why would this possibly happen.  How do i go about fixing the problem.

Im stumped and found nothing on google or from the forum.

Thanks kelean.

---

### Post by raldz on 2006-07-11
try to install the legacy drivers for your video card, if you are using nvidia, this might help:

[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Dapper](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Latest_Nvidia_Dapper)

---

### Post by caserio on 2006-07-11
Hi,

Post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

---

### Post by kelean on 2006-07-11
OK here here is my xorg.comfig file.

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:1:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"771FS-s"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82810E DC-133 CGC [Chipset Graphics Controller]"
	Monitor		"771FS-s"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


---

### Post by digby on 2006-07-11
Try pressing ctrl + alt + - (that's the minus on your numeric keypad) to see if you can change your resolution back.

---

### Post by kelean on 2006-07-11
Hi digby ctrl + alt + - does nothing.

All i know is 640x480 not good at all.  I just tried to change the resolution again and all of the resolutions in my xorg config file are there.  When I tried before all that was listed was 640x480 and 60 Hz refresh rate.:confused: :confused: ](*,) 

All is well again this is weried!!!

Thanks for all the help.

Kelean

---

### Post by caserio on 2006-07-12
Hi,

If your run into trouble again: delete the resolutions you don't want or comment them out like this:

Modes "1024x768" ##"800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
or
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" ##"720x400" "640x480"...

---

### Post by Test33 on 2006-07-12
This just happened to me also. I just updated Unbuntu with the automactic updater thing. I rebooted and I now are at the 640x480. I tried to reinstall my video drivers didn't work. Any ideas?

Nevermind I just had to reboot after reinstalling drivers. Thanks.

---

