---
title: "Is 11.04 still glitchy with ATi graphics?"
date: 2011-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-05-13
Hey, I am thinking of re-upgrading back to 11.04 someday soon. Are the ATi graphics drivers still screwed up for 11.04? Before when I had 11.04 the system was very slow and glitchy because of this.

If these problems are fixed, then I might re-upgrade.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2011-05-13
> Are the ATi graphics drivers still screwed up for 11.04? 
Still same drive in repos.
> Before when I had 11.04 the system was very slow and glitchy because of this.
No such issue on my ATI Radeon HD4670 card.
> If these problems are fixed, then I might re-upgrade. 
Don't know - Catalyst 11.5 is out, but I'm on Cat 11.4 still, 11.5 is not in ubuntu-x-swat ppa yet.


Sharky

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-13
duplicate

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-13
There have been updates on ati and open source drivers recently. You can google gallium or ati fglrx for example.
There are a few reviews, comparison, benchmarks and changelogs etc.
Also there has been updates to kernel re/ video/3d.
Also general updates over last month or so (update manager)

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2011-05-13
ATI Radeon HD 4200

Ubuntu 11.04 64-bit

FGLRX installed
aticonfig --initial -f ran

Is it working? Yeah no glitches here, only issue I have is ALT+TAB is slow, which is a bug apparently.

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-13
I find the middle scroll on my mouse is jumpy and affects playback of mp3s etc in chrome browser, I think it is graphics driver related. I get jerky video playback sometimes (especially if on net to) Not quite as good in general as it is windows (ati radeon 3650) (ati-fglrx-11.04)

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-14
After instalation of ati-drivers
typing:

fgl_glxgears

in terminal 
will bring up spinning 3d gears, so you know it's locked into 3d ok.

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-05-14
Okay. It looks like there are still some glitches to be fixed out. How long do you think I should wait before upgrading?

My video card is the Radeon HD 4250, I believe

---

### Post by Naike on 2011-05-14
I still have problems with my 5870, but I think I found out what the problem is.
I tried the rc of linux mint 11, and I had the exact same problems, laggy window dragging, laggy animations.
But when I changed the window manager from compiz to metacity, everything is perfectly smooth, and runs without any problems!

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-14
I just installed catalyst 11.5.
As far as I know anyway, 
downloaded 71mb file from amd.
ati-driver-installer-11-5-x86.x86_64.run
from amd:
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/linux/Pages/radeon_linux.aspx)

followed these instructions:
[I]Follow the procedure below to install software packaged in a .run file:

Find the .run file in the File Browser
Right-click the file and select Properties
Under the Permissions tab, make sure that Allow executing file as program is ticked and press Close
Double-click the .run file to open it. A dialog box should appear
Press Run in Terminal to run the installer
A Terminal window will open. Follow any instructions on-screen to install the program[/I]

went to terminal and started executing script.

Afterwards it rebooted and all seems ok.
[IMG]http://files.myopera.com/DuncanWilliams/usercss/ati-11-5.png[/IMG]
But the drivers as shown above are not 8.85 as they are stated in the release? - So I am not sure which version I have now. anyone that could tell me, it would be appreciated.
Anyway it's all running good but still jerky video if I am online and using chrome.
Any opinions about the jerky videos would be appreciated.
Also lots of ati graphics drivers info here (on latest releases)
[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=category&item=Display%20Drivers](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=category&item=Display%20Drivers)

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-05-14
Well the problem I was having before with 11.04 was that it caused computer responses to be delayed. A lot of people had this problem, and were also blaming it on the graphics driver.
Also, visual effects were very laggy and slow, looking similar to what a moving object would look like with a strobe light: going then stopping, repeatedly.

I am just wondering, are these graphics driver problems fixed now? If so, I will re-upgrade back to 11.04

---

### Post by Naike on 2011-05-14
Problems I have:
GNOME /w compiz, lag, moving a window is just horrible, all animations are a little laggy, firefox scrolling is not smooth either. But the general desktop environment, like windows are the worst.

KDE, no lag when moving windows, but the animations and firefox scrolling is still a bit laggy, unfortunately.

11.04 kernel bug: hangs on boot for 2-5 minutes because ACPI doesn't seem to work on 790 and 890 series motherboards.
(Or well it does work, but it causes that hang when booting)

I'm not going to use 11.04 at all since it has so many problems, GNOME works fine with another window manager by the way, but there's still that "micro-lag" when scrolling in firefox, and all animations are slightly choppy as well.

I have an ati 5870 gpu, phenom 2 965be cpu with m4a89gtd pro/usb3 (890GX chipset) motherboard.
Trying linux 10 now.

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-14
seems a lot better after giving it a hammering after installing 11.5 (fglrx).
It is a lot more stable, no lags or problems, very crisp 1920 by 1080 display (24" monitor). 
It doesn't seem to mind me multitasking while playing mp3s/mp4s.
Videos and movies are fine except when online and using chrome.
It has consistently improved the last few weeks.
(I don't use firefox but opera is fine)

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-05-14
Naike, I would just install 10.10 instead. That is what I did. I will wait a few months for the bugs to clear up, then re-install 11.04

---

### Post by Duncan Williams on 2011-05-17
Tried `unity 2d' and that gets rid of all minor issues with my agp card.
Smooth as silk.
I miss some of the animated effects.
but the speed and smoothness and the fact that I don't get any jerky video or other side-issues makes up for it.
(install from `software center' > adds extra option at login.

1. Ubuntu unity
2. Ubuntu 2D unity 
3. Ubuntu classic

---

### Post by bdoe on 2011-05-18
> **Naike said:**
> I still have problems with my 5870, but I think I found out what the problem is.
I tried the rc of linux mint 11, and I had the exact same problems, laggy window dragging, laggy animations.
But when I changed the window manager from compiz to metacity, everything is perfectly smooth, and runs without any problems!
I had the same problem. My solution was to go into Compiz settings, to OpenGL settings, and uncheck the "Sync to vBlank" option. I strongly recommend enabling Sync to vBlank in the Catalyst Control Center instead, as this will also allow you to enable tear-free graphics.

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-05-28
Does 11.04 still have these problems?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-05-28
There is a Compiz work around/fix for ATI at the link , it is supposed to help with that issue in Unity. [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/things-to-tweak-fix-after-installing.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/things-to-tweak-fix-after-installing.html)

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-06-07
Is 11.04 *STILL* glitchy with ATI Radeon HD graphics?

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-07
> **linuxuser12345 said:**
> Is 11.04 *STILL* glitchy with ATI Radeon HD graphics?

I only use Nvidia cards in my Ubuntu systems.  It's the only way to fly. :popcorn:

---

