---
title: "Chrome - pepperflash plugin not showing up"
date: 2012-12-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by deadtom on 2012-12-07
I've had to give up on adobe flash and gnash for my son's PC. Most websites using flash complain that the version of flash installed is too old and won't run.

So I am trying to use chrome's built in flash but when I go to chrome://plugins, it's not there. Looking in /opt/google/chrome, there is a PepperFlash directory containing libpepflashplayer.so.

What do I need to do to get pepperflash to show up in plugins so that he can use it?

Thanks!

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2012-12-07
Hrm, if you have the latest version of Google Chrome downloaded and installed then the PepperFlash v11.5 should already be installed and working ok...  Are you unning Chromium by any chance ?

---

### Post by deadtom on 2012-12-07
Nope, definitely chrome. Also, I upgraded him to precise about an hour ago. Before the upgrade I did an apt-get remove google-chrome-stable --purge to make sure chrome was completely gone, then reinstalled it after the upgrade was finished.

Like I said, the .so is there, it just doesn't show up in the plugins page.

---

### Post by deadtom on 2012-12-07
I also removed .config/google-chrome from his home directory to make sure that there was nothing in there that could be fouling things up.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-12-07
> **deadtom said:**
> ... when I go to chrome://plugins, it's not there. Looking in /opt/google/chrome, there is a PepperFlash directory containing libpepflashplayer.so.
...

Could you put up a screenshot of the relevant part of chrome://plugins? Also, have you clicked on the + next to **details** near the top RHS to expand the view?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-12-07
> **deadtom said:**
> I've had to give up on adobe flash and gnash for my son's PC. Most websites using flash complain that the version of flash installed is too old and won't run.

So I am trying to use chrome's built in flash but when I go to chrome://plugins, it's not there. Looking in /opt/google/chrome, there is a PepperFlash directory containing libpepflashplayer.so.

What do I need to do to get pepperflash to show up in plugins so that he can use it?

Thanks!
Stupid question but is Flash not working by default? How old is your PC? Specs? There was something that happened around the time of Chrome 19 or 20 after which a lot of oldish hardware didn't work with Pepper Flash.

---

### Post by deadtom on 2012-12-07
Yes, I expanded the details. Pepper flash is not listed.

It is an older PC, maybe 7 or 8 years old.

AMD Athlon XP 2800+

Linux 3.2.0-34-generic on i686

Google Chrome 23.0.1271.95

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2012-12-07
It's just possible that the pepper flash has been disabled on your computer and that there maybe nothing you can do about it. See 
comment #17 
> Based on the details so far, it's looking like an issue with older CPUs, possibly ones that don't support sse2 instructions. The Pepper Flash plugin probably won't support such systems, and we may just have to disable it if the necessary CPU capabilities aren't detected.
and 
comment #57:
> Merge 145632 to M20 - Disable bundled PPAPI Flash on Linux ia32 when SSE2 is not available.

Then there's comment #77
> Some of the affected cpus are:
It seems that most of these issues are being generated by SSE2 unsupported cpus.
Intel Pentium III Coppermine
Intel Pentium III Tualatin
Intel Celeron Mendocino
Intel Celeron Coppermine-128
Intel Celeron Tualatin-256
Intel Pentium M
AMD Athlon XP

I don't know of a way to verify what your cpu is but this lengthy bug is where I saw the quoted stuff: [http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=134940](http://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=134940)

---

### Post by deadtom on 2012-12-10
Well I guess it's finally time to upgrade him then. I think I've stretched that hardware about as far as it's going to go.

Thanks for all the responses guys!

---

