---
title: "Resolution Video Problem"
date: 2008-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheMixtureMedia on 2008-05-14
Hi there I just installed 8.04 on a system and the video card is a nvidia 6200 and the system will not go beyond 640X480 resolution can someone help me fix this problem please.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-05-14
> **TheMixtureMedia said:**
> Hi there I just installed 8.04 on a system and the video card is a nvidia 6200 and the system will not go beyond 640X480 resolution can someone help me fix this problem please.

HI and have you installed the drivers for the graphics card under system, administration. You can try and reconfigure your xorg with this command 
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by TheMixtureMedia on 2008-05-14
it did not work can someone help me could it be the monitor setting

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-05-14
> **TheMixtureMedia said:**
> it did not work can someone help me could it be the monitor setting

Ok I am assuming the configuring did not work but did you check the drivers?

---

### Post by AnomalyDetected on 2008-05-14
Please post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file so we can see what's going on in there.

Most of the problems I've seen relating to resolution problems are from your MONITOR being set wrong. Pretty much any video card with even just running VESA can do better than 640x480. X just doesn't think your monitor can handle it.

As a first step, I'd go to the "Screen and Graphics" module in Applications/Other (you may have to go to Add/Remove and choose it if it's not already there).

From there, click the monitor button and see if your monitor is listed as a choice. If not, choose the closest matching one under Generic. This will add support for different modes in your xorg.conf file. Reboot and you SHOULD now have higher resolution options.

---

### Post by TheMixtureMedia on 2008-05-19
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 6 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection


Sorry for not getting back to you guys sooner here is the information in that file could someone get back to me asap to let me know what to do next.

---

### Post by AnomalyDetected on 2008-05-19
Did you try going to "Screens and Graphics" like I suggested? 

According to your xorg.conf, it's still using a Plug N' Play monitor setting, which is seems to think is only capable of low res.

Instead, try choosing one in the "Generic" category that matches the resolution you are trying to do. For example, "LCD Panel 1280x1024"

Also... are you using only 1 screen or 2? It looks like you have a (partial) setup for 2nd display there at the end. Your card probably support two monitors, but I'm wondering how many you actually have hooked up right now.

---

### Post by pietjanjaap on 2008-05-19
boot in safe mode,
choose last option,
here ubuntu looks for videocard and monitor hardware,
reboot,
install videcard software(now the software knows your hardware)

---

### Post by TheMixtureMedia on 2008-05-19
Screens and Graphics I can not find that in add remove programs were would it be

---

### Post by AnomalyDetected on 2008-05-19
Oh that's right, it's not on Hardy by default anymore.
Do a "sudo apt-get install displayconfig-gtk" from a terminal prompt, or just look for "displayconfig-gtk" in Synaptic Package Manager.

Once installed, you'll then see it under Applications/Other/Screens and Graphics.

From there, change the monitor setting to "Generic" (and select an appropriate sounding type) instead of "Plug N Play".

I bet that gets you to a more reasonable resolution.

---

### Post by TheMixtureMedia on 2008-05-20
> **pietjanjaap said:**
> boot in safe mode,
choose last option,
here ubuntu looks for videocard and monitor hardware,
reboot,
install videcard software(now the software knows your hardware)


I did that and it fixed the problem thanks guys for the help.

---

