---
title: "10.10 GUI not loading getting command line..."
date: 2011-03-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GratefulDean on 2011-03-31
Yesterday I was trying to set up an external monitor which required some fiddling with my Nvdia graphics driver. Today I went to boot up and after user ame and password am only getting the command line. I assume tge probblem has to do with the driver. I am clueless as to figure this out. 

Please help.

Thanks,
Dean

---

### Post by strafe_sawdoffe on 2011-03-31
That happened to me once at random on 10.4 (no prior driver fiddling), but a simple reboot fixed it.

If you type "startx" from the command line, what is the result?

---

### Post by GratefulDean on 2011-03-31
> **strafe_sawdoffe said:**
> That happened to me once at random on 10.4 (no prior driver fiddling), but a simple reboot fixed it.

If you type "startx" from the command line, what is the result?

Thanks for the response.  It is telling me quite a bit. The thing that stands out is "Fatal serve error: no screens found". It also recommends I check the log file at "/var/log/xorg.0.log".  I'm not sure how to do that.  

Can I reset my driver through the command line?  

Also I finally was able to, how I don't know, set things up so I get the cool wobbly windows and sliding desktops. I hope I dont loose that.

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-03-31
Can you provide some info about your setup?  How did you install the Nvidia driver?  Where you able to get a gui with a graphics safe mode?

I had a similar thing happen to me and I may be able to help if you provide some more info.

---

### Post by GratefulDean on 2011-03-31
> **Foxcow said:**
> Can you provide some info about your setup?  How did you install the Nvidia driver?  Where you able to get a gui with a graphics safe mode?

I had a similar thing happen to me and I may be able to help if you provide some more info.

I think I installed it from the Ubuntu Software store. I'm still unfamiliar with the command line.
 I tried booting in recovery mode with no luck. 

Regarding my setup: I have an Nvidia card but I'm not sure how to find out which one it is on the Windows partition. What else might you need to know?

---

### Post by strafe_sawdoffe on 2011-03-31
If you want to check that xorg file, you can do this from the command line:

```
nano /var/log/Xorg.0.conf
```Note that Xorg is capitalized; that will make a difference. This will let you browse the file, although I will admit I'm not quite sure what in that file you should look for.

Also, you can change directory to /var/log and run a list command (just type 'ls'). There should be older copies of Xorg... maybe if you rename a recent Xorg.[#] to Xorg.0 and reboot you can get a stable GUI back... but let me disclaim I haven't actually tested that.

Going off of what foxcow said, is your initial login screen graphical, or text? If it's graphical you should be able to go into failsafe mode.

Don't worry so much about Compiz (your wobbly windows, etc). Once you get the GUI back, messing with those settings will probably be a 10 minute fix, tops.

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-03-31
> **GratefulDean said:**
> I think I installed it from the Ubuntu Software store. I'm still unfamiliar with the command line.
 I tried booting in recovery mode with no luck. 

Regarding my setup: I have an Nvidia card but I'm not sure how to find out which one it is on the Windows partition. What else might you need to know?

If you can't boot into recovery mode via grub, you will have to remove the driver you installed.


If you went with the Xorg Nvidia binary in the software center, you can remove it via command line by typing:

```

sudo apt-get remove nvidia-glx-185

```

This simply tells the package manager to remove the driver.

then:
```

sudo apt-get autoremove

```

This will remove all dependencies.  Its not really a necessary step but I like to do it.

Reboot:
```

sudo reboot

```

Reboots your machine





For future reference, you can get system info this way:

"**l**i**s**t **h**ard**w**are"
```

sudo lshw

```

or for truncated output:
```

sudo lshw short

```

If you ever have a question about a command, you can use 'man' pages.  Example using apt-get:
```

man apt-get

```

However, not all commands have man pages.

you can also use --help.  Again, apt-get as an example:
```

apt-get --help

```

---

### Post by uveryames on 2011-03-31
i had this same exact problem with my nvidia card as well.  i went to the nvidia site and downloaded the driver manually and installed.  after reboot there was no more gui, just cli.  

i solved this problem using grub.  i started in ubuntu recovery mode.  then booted under the option failsafe graphics mode. installed the nvidia driver that comes with 10.10 system via system>administration>additional drivers

i would like to install the driver from the nvidia site to get better graphics...does anyone know the proper way of doing this without it booting into CLI?

---

### Post by GratefulDean on 2011-04-01
@uveryames- I think I hit the report abuse link on your post. Sorry I meant to hit new post, I'm on my iPhone.

---

### Post by GratefulDean on 2011-04-01
I figured out how to go into graphics safe mode, I uninstalled glx-185 via terminal as @foxcow instructed to no avail.  Then reinstalled it via UbSoft Cent.  No dice.  

Then when I went into the Nvidia x-server settings in System>Admin and got the message 
> You do not appear to be using the nvidea x driver. Please edit your xconfiguration file (just run 'nvidia-xconfig' as root), and restart the driver.

So after some Google-Foo I did the following:

```
sudo-i
``` to get to root then:
```
sudo nvidia x-config
``` then, after setting up the restart xserver hotkeys, hit

ctrl-alt-bspace

Nothing, still no GUI.  

I realize that I'm not using the nvidia drivers because I am in graphics safe mode but I figured it wouldn't hurt.

I could find no "additional drivers" under System>Administration...

I expected this sort of thing to happen, it's one of the reasons I dove into Linux via Ubuntu so I haven't lost my sh*t yet.  But this instance is having my reconsider dumping my Windows partition until I have a good deal more knowledge.

Thanks again for all the help and keep it coming!

-Dean

---

### Post by GratefulDean on 2011-04-04
I spent a couple of hours on the problem over the weekend. I'm still stuck with CLI on boot.  Any further advice anyone can offer will be greatly appreciated. 

I am able to boot to the GUI in graphics safe mode so I have access to not only the terminal bit also the Ubuntu Software Center. Is there a way, in either of this I can set the Ubuntu partition back to it's original state or at least the praphics driver?  What does 10.10 ship with in term of the graphic driver?

Thanks, 
Dean

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-04-04
> **GratefulDean said:**
> I spent a couple of hours on the problem over the weekend. I'm still stuck with CLI on boot.  Any further advice anyone can offer will be greatly appreciated. 

I am able to boot to the GUI in graphics safe mode so I have access to not only the terminal bit also the Ubuntu Software Center. Is there a way, in either of this I can set the Ubuntu partition back to it's original state or at least the praphics driver?  What does 10.10 ship with in term of the graphic driver?

Thanks, 
Dean

were you able to remove the drives you installed from the software center?

---

