---
title: "16.04 won't boot after memory upgrade"
date: 2016-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dwsdad on 2016-06-01
I have a Dell e6410 that has 4Gb RAM installed.  I have loaded 16.04 and it runs great, but when I install 2 new 4Gb sticks, the laptop sees it and reports it correctly but when Ubuntu tries to boot I get an option screen for Ubuntu or Ubuntu memory test.  I've tried the the memory test and it seems to die before it finishes.  If I just try to boot into Ubuntu, the laptop will just shut down.  I've tried each stick by itself and it behaves the same way.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by cbraxton on 2016-06-01
Your new memory may be defective. I upgraded mine from 16GB to 32GB after installing Ubuntu Mate 16.04 and had all kinds of squirrelly problems. Testing revealed that 3 of the 4 new memory modules were defective. Exchanging for new memory fixed it.

---

### Post by dwsdad on 2016-06-02
I thought about that too.  I just got 2 new 4Gb sticks and tried them - 1 at a time - still no go.  The ones I'm trying are Ripjaws F3-1600C9D-8RSL.  The existing (working sticks) are Kingston.  I got the Ripjaws from Newegg, so I can call them and exchange them if I have to, but I'd really would like to find the secret to getting them to work.  Heck, I can't even get the 16.04 install CD to boot up.

---

### Post by cbraxton on 2016-06-02
Does the motherboard POST with the new memory installed? What you really need to do if possible is to let memtest86+ or the like wail away on each new memory module to see if it passes muster. It seems pretty clear though from the substitution testing you've done that your new memory is either defective or incompatible with your motherboard. I would upgrade using the same brand and timing specs as your existing memory since that is known to work.

---

### Post by dwsdad on 2016-06-02
The motherboard is fine with the new memory.  The BIOS shows 2 4096 Gb RAM installed, so I think it's ok with the system.  I've tried to let memtest86+ run and it crashes every time. I think what I'm going to try next before returning the RAM is putting in Ubuntu 15 and some other Linux install CDs to see if there's something wonky in 16.04 or just some issue with this RAM and 16.04.  I'll post up the results of the attempted CDs when I can get them done.

---

### Post by him610 on 2016-06-02
>  I've tried to let memtest86+ run and it crashes every time.

Your memory fails the generic *memtest86+* test! What more are you looking for? It is time to contact Newegg to exchange the memory

---

### Post by dwsdad on 2016-06-02
With all due respect him610, I want to make sure it really is the memory.

So.....I grabbed a copy of CentOS 7 64 bit.  Swapped out the memory to make it 8Gb (the new stuff), slapped the CD in and booted up.  The Install/repair/Troubleshoot menu came up.  I then powered down and swapped out the hard drive so i could do an install and not have to worry about damaging my good install.  Rebooted the CD and told it to install....oh, it looked promising...then the laptop powered down and powered back up.  Tried it again.  Same thing.  Ok, let's do the Troubleshooting option.  I then selected the memory test.  It seemed to hang on Test 0 at 4%, but it did show both sticks.  Ok, time for another test.  I pulled a 32 bit copy of Ubuntu 15.04 and tried to boot into that.  SUCCESS!  I didn't do an install, but I did do the Try Ubuntu option and it loaded fine.  Brought up the main screen and the Unity menu like it's supposed to.  So apparently, 64 bit Linux does not like this new RAM.  Why?  At this point I think I'm going to call Newegg and talk to them about it and most likely try to swap it out.

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-06-02
A few comments about your issue...

The first and of the utmost importance: STOP right NOW before you damage something. 

- The [COLOR=#000000]Ripjaws F3-1600C9D-8RSL are LOW VOLTAGE (1.35V) therefore NOT COMPATIBLE with Dell Latitude E6410.
- Dell Latitude E6410 supports up to 8GB RAM.
- Dell Latitude E6410 supports ONLY one specific type of RAM - [/COLOR]https://www.memoryc.com/dell-laptop-latitude-e6410-memory-upgrade.html (no endorsement, for your reference only) - 
- Memorytest doesn't crash due to bad memory; it always successfully does its thing - testing RAM - even with all memory bad and reports it at the end thus ending successfully its job. When it crashes it suggests more serious problems other than the RAM itself. In this case a total mismatch.
- And more bad news: There's a good chance those Ripjaws are trashed/burned by now.

---

### Post by dwsdad on 2016-06-02
Very good info to know to be sure, X-RED_Tech.  I hope I didn't fry them, but since the BIOS sees them can I assume they are ok?

I'll check out that link.  Thanks for the very informative reply.

---

### Post by him610 on 2016-06-02
Here's another source...
[http://www.crucial.com/usa/en/compatible-upgrade-for/Dell/latitude-e6410]("http://www.crucial.com/usa/en/compatible-upgrade-for/Dell/latitude-e6410")

---

