---
title: "Terminal wildcards"
date: 2010-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ownaginatious on 2010-09-01
So I've been wondering how I'd execute something like this:
```
sudo mv {1}.mp3 {1}.wav
```

Of course this syntax isn't real, but I think you can see what I mean. {1} represents whatever is before .mp3, trying to show that each file beginning with something .mp3 should be renamed to something .wav.

Any ideas?

Thanks :)

---

### Post by juil on 2010-09-01
you can't change format of the audio file just by renaming it. .wav files
are bigger than .mp3 files so that's your first clue. You need a media 
converter or something. Check synaptics or software centre.

---

### Post by ownaginatious on 2010-09-01
Oh, I know that. That is just an example.

I could've said something like:
```
sudo mv {1}.txt {1}.html
```

The thing about wildcards is what I'm looking for here.

---

### Post by juil on 2010-09-01
Call me stupid, but what does wildcards have anything to do with renaming
a file?

---

### Post by ownaginatious on 2010-09-01
Okay, what I'm trying to say is, imagine I had a directory full of files with the extension .txt.

What if I want to change all their extensions simultaneously to .html?

In the made up code I have, {1} represents a wildcard in a pattern to match each file against.

```
sudo mv {1}.mp3 {1}.wav
```

I guess this could mean the same thing kind of:

```
sudo mv *.mp3 *.wav
```

---

### Post by juil on 2010-09-01
you can't do it in one step i don't think.
If your goal is to rename multiple files quickly, then use Nano in the 
terminal with the qmv command. The qmv is a tiny program that allows files to be renamed by editing  their  names  in any text editor.

1) Open terminal. Go to the directory all your files are in.
2) You will need to type: 'sudo apt-get install renameutils' in order to
use the qmv command.
3) Then type: 'qmv -a' and your terminal will change to Nano editor it will display all your files like this:



file1___________________________________file1
file2___________________________________file2
file3___________________________________file3




Teke your cursor to the second column and change the name to whatever:



file1___________________________________page1.html
file2___________________________________page2.html
file3___________________________________page3.html



After your done, press Ctrl-X to exit. It will ask you if you want to save. Just press y. Then it will ask you something like this:

File Name to Write: /tmp/qmv7jCagq 

Just press enter. Your done. Note: You can't use the mouse to move cursor. Just use your keyboard. It's faster. I've attached a SC of what it looks like.

---

### Post by sarin_cv on 2010-09-01
This is a simple script written by me to rename some .txt file to .scr

```
# Generates the list of files to be renamed
ls *.txt *.TXT > files.LST

# Open file
var=`cat files.LST`
ext=".scr"

# Rename files
for filename in $var; do
        basename=`echo $filename | cut -d "." -f1`
        mv $filename $basename$ext
done
```


This will rename all .txt/.TXT files in this path to .scr. You can create a shell script with this and execute after making changes as your reqmnt.

---

### Post by niteshifter on 2010-09-01
Hi,

In one step: No. In one line: Yes

Quickie one-liner bash script:
```
for f in *.txt ; do  mv $f `basename $f .txt`.htm ; done
```

What are we doing in the above?

```
for f in *.txt ; 
```
Start a loop (for) with a variable (f) that will be assigned a value from the list of files whose names end with the sequence .txt
The list is generated by shell expansion. The ; at the end makes this a logical line (to the shell).

```
do  mv $f `basename $f .txt`.htm ;
```
The body of the loop, where we "do" something: move a file. The file's name is in the variable f. Now look closely at the quotes - they are not quotes, they are backticks - this tells the shell to execute the enclosed system command and use the output of that command here. The command "basename $f .txt" - let's say f has a value of "todaysnotes.txt" - will return just the "todaysnotes" portion. Which we stick .htm on the end of. And another logical line end.

```
done
```
Close (aka end) the loop.

Let's test it:
```
dlk@dlk-lt-1420:~/test2$ touch file01.txt
dlk@dlk-lt-1420:~/test2$ touch file02.txt
dlk@dlk-lt-1420:~/test2$ touch file03.txt
dlk@dlk-lt-1420:~/test2$ ls
file01.txt  file02.txt  file03.txt
dlk@dlk-lt-1420:~/test2$ for f in *.txt ;do  mv $f `basename $f .txt`.htm ; done
dlk@dlk-lt-1420:~/test2$ ls
file01.htm  file02.htm  file03.htm

```



Further reading:
```
man basename
```
```
man touch
```
```
man bash
```
That last one can be a bit overwhelming for newcomers (yeah, I've a gift for understatement :) ) You might want to try [this]("http://tldp.org/guides.html") (tldp.org) and grab the bash guides.

---

### Post by juil on 2010-09-01
At least my posts were able to bump the topic so niteshifter and sarin could post a way better solution, lol.

---

### Post by surfer on 2010-09-01
```
for fle in *.txt; do mv ${fle} ${fle/.txt/.html}; done
```

---

### Post by surfer on 2010-09-01
or:
```
$ rename -n 's/\.txt$/\.html/' *.txt

```
to just display what would be changed and
```
rename -v 's/\.txt$/\.html/' *.txt

```
to really do it.

---

### Post by DaithiF on 2010-09-01
and yet another way:
```
rename 's/.txt$/.html/' *.txt
```nice thing about rename is the -n parameter which allows you to preview what your command will do, without actually doing it.

EDIT:  oops bit late -- strange forums lag

---

### Post by sarin_cv on 2010-09-01
getting better... :)  unfortunately rename is not available for my AIX UNIX machine in office....

---

### Post by DaithiF on 2010-09-01
> **sarin_cv said:**
> getting better... :)  unfortunately rename is not available for my AIX UNIX machine in office....
its just a short perl script, 30 lines or so, you could copy it across if you wish (and if you have perl of course)

---

