---
title: "9.10 broke Spotify :("
date: 2009-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by goldfire on 2009-10-30
Hi I just installed 9.10 and it seems that now Spotify (under Wine) is broken.. When I try to listen to the music, there are almost constant distortions. Before, it worked almost flawlessly. Please tell me there is a fix for this. I can't live without my Spotify.

---

### Post by rockstarrem on 2009-10-30
What about in other applications? Try going to YouTube and playing a video, is the audio distorted? What about an audio file in Rhythmbox? If they are its a sound system issue and not Spotify or Wine's.

---

### Post by MattM11 on 2009-10-30
I'm running Spotify (through Wine) on Xubuntu 9.10 and have had a couple of problems. 

It apparently worked fine last night (though I wasn't on it long). Then this morning it refused to play songs at all - a message flashed up (in Spotify - not Xubuntu) saying that it had problems with the sound card. But I tried restarting Xubuntu and that seemed to get it working again. Youtube and BBC iPlayer both seem fine. 

The sound *might* still be slightly distorted - but I think it could just be a combination of my crappy speakers and paranoia.

---

### Post by goldfire on 2009-10-30
No it's only in Spotify and possibly other Wine apps (Spotify is the only one I have that has sound). Rythmbox, VLC and Youtube work just fine.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-30
run

```
winecfg
```

and experiment with the sound settings. The upgrade may have rest them to default.

---

### Post by goldfire on 2009-10-30
Disabling ALSA in winecfg and instead using OSS seems to have done the trick! :D If I nitpick there migh still be slight distortions but that might just be because I'm trying to hear them. Anyway, this will do for now .

Edit: No there are definite sparks in the sound, you can hear it clearly in the speech during the ads. But it's barely audible during the music so this will be fine for now anyway. Would be nice to have it back to crystal clear, like in 9.04 though.

Edit again: This is unrelated but I would like to have the theme back from 9.04 also. I did change it from that ugly brown to "human" but it still seems different. Anywhere I can download it?

---

### Post by Alex Flint on 2009-11-03
I had the same problem and I upgraded to wine1.2 with

```
sudo aptitude remove wine
sudo aptitude install wine1.2
```

spotify will still work without being re-installed.

---

### Post by Spinor_08 on 2009-11-06
Playing with the winecfg settings helped for me, upgrading wine didn't help much. Specifically what helped for me is in my post in this thread:


[http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8232598](http://www.uluga.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8232598)

---

