---
title: "16.04 update bricked computer?"
date: 2016-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shawj2010 on 2016-11-30
Had a notification that update was available.  Ran update (from 14.04 to 16.04).  Restarted after update.  Get login screen.  Enter password.  Screen goes blank and then reopens to login screen.  Repeats and repeats, etc.  Login to blank to login.  Cannot get past this, to do anything.  Solution?  thx

---

### Post by klm3030 on 2016-11-30
If you have Nvidia graphics then welcome to the club, happening to dozens if not thousands and as far as I can tell nothing is being done to correct this huge mistake.

---

### Post by shawj2010 on 2016-11-30
Any known recovery?  Or do I have a worthless doorstop? thx

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-11-30
Hello!

Didi you have any proprietary drivers installed (such as a video driver) at the time of the upgrade?  Did you un-install it prior to the upgrade?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-11-30
Maybe this bug?
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-367/+bug/1640257](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-367/+bug/1640257)

Try going to a command line from the login screen with Ctrl+Alt+F1 and from there login as user and run command ```
sudo apt-get purge nvidia*
```
I have never used an nvidia card so have no experience of this problem but it may get yo to a GUI which you can then use to search further.

---

### Post by shawj2010 on 2016-11-30
No proprietary drivers installed.  Just stock Ubuntu 14.04 (which was working just fine.)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-11-30
OK, so this time try going to a command line from the login screen with Ctrl+Alt+F1 and from there login as user and run commands
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```one at a time and report back here what output you get.
To make this easier it may be easier to pipe the output of those commands to files with
```
sudo apt-get update >update.txt
sudo apt-get upgrade >upgrade.txt
``` then using a live ubuntu OS, attach those two .txt files from your installed OS's home back here using the paperclip icon in the reply box toolbar.

---

### Post by shawj2010 on 2016-12-01
The "get update" and "get upgrade" tip caused lots of lines to fly by, but still left me with the issue.  (I would have attached the .txt files, but I did not have a working Ubuntu system.  BUT, thanks to the tip from ajgreeny, I did the purge nv idia* entry and may now have a working unit!  I'll check some more and see.  thx all

---

