---
title: "17.10 Copy Progress Bar large files"
date: 2018-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 7-webmaster on 2018-03-02
I am copying multi-gigabyte files, for example VirtualBox VDIs and distribution ISOs from my old laptop to its replacement.  So I do a copy and paste from the source directory to a thumb drive.  However there is no indication of the progress of the copy, which naturally takes considerable time for a typical 4GB file.  Searching for help says that there is supposed to be a circle in the top bar which I can click on to see the progress, but I do not see a circle.  On the target system, which is from System 76 and comes with its customized version of Ubuntu 17.10 called Pop 17.10, the circle (or rather a pie graph symbol) does appear, so the problem seems to be the Ubuntu customization of Nautilus for 17.10 that is at fault here.

[IMG]https://www.jamescobban.net/Images/Screenshot from 2018-03-02 16-43-22.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-03-02
Hello!

What release are you running on the souce machine?

---

### Post by braghum on 2018-03-02
It's a known and to my knowledge unsolved bug and connected to Nautilus, correct.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-03-03
Large files are best copied from the command line, using rsync.  That is the best way to ensure that the files are copied error free.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2018-03-03
With rsync, the --progress flag tells it to show progress. And I agree with HermanAB - for large copy jobs rsync seems both fastest and most reliable to me.

---

### Post by ubname on 2018-03-03
apart from the missing progress bar, i would suggest you to copy using a sftp connection from nautilus to the new pc, copying to usb flash drives is very slow, even slower if they are fat32 formatted.

---

