---
title: "18.10 sometimes when I click Power Off, it restarts."
date: 2018-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-12-16
18.10 sometimes when I click Power Off, it restarts.
This last time the power button light went off for a sec or 2 before it popped back on.
(top bar / right click / power button / power off )

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-12-17
just happened again. I had removed quiet and splash so I was able to see the last command and it, as usual, just said "power off", and then it shut off. A second later as if by magic, it started up again, the usual 7-10 sec pause and then the usual grub menu. How would I figure out why this is happening?  like a phantom key press.

---

### Post by habana on 2018-12-17
I had this problem with 17.10. First thing I did was to make sure that Power On by Mouse/Keyboard was disabled in BIOS. It was. I then did the following, one at a time:

Disabled anything in BIOS related to power on, wake up.
Measured the CMOS battery &#8211; 3.09V.
Cleared CMOS &#8211; reloaded defaults and made minor changes, AHCI etc.
Removed LAN and USB cables immediately after power off.
Updated the BIOS

None of these fixed the problem.

Finally I disabled HPET Mode in BIOS and that did the trick. HPET stands for High Precision Event Timer but how it can initiate a restart I have no idea.

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-12-17
> **habana said:**
> I had this problem with 17.10. First thing I did was to make sure that Power On by Mouse/Keyboard was disabled in BIOS. It was. I then did the following, one at a time:

Disabled anything in BIOS related to power on, wake up.
Measured the CMOS battery – 3.09V.
Cleared CMOS – reloaded defaults and made minor changes, AHCI etc.
Removed LAN and USB cables immediately after power off.
Updated the BIOS

None of these fixed the problem.

Finally I disabled HPET Mode in BIOS and that did the trick. HPET stands for High Precision Event Timer but how it can initiate a restart I have no idea.

I hope this helps.

Thanks for all that!!!  I immediately thought it might be the battery, but it tested at 3.176 (still plugged to laptop - laptop not plugged in, laptop battery removed, power button pressed a few times), where my spare only showed 3.107

I could not find HPET anywhere in the BIOS - Phoenix SecureCore (UEFI)(not running UEFI) latest Bios 2.73 2018-06-11, Lenovo T530. 
HPET did show in win7 device mgr system, though it had no drivers and didn't indicate anything.
In win7, cmd / bcdedit did not show useplatformclock.

Saw nothing in BIOS other than wake on lan which was already disabled.
so short of clear CMOS (which I can't do in BIOS), and setting defaults, I still have no idea.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-12-17
I did find there was a 2.74, so flashed that, and went into BIOS and set defaults, and then went through and set what I need to.
We'll see...

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-12-23
Well no problems for a bit but then it restarted yesterday. So I removed quiet and splash, and it happened again just now and about the last thing I saw was "start power off", screen blank, power button light off, wait 1 sec, power button light came on and it started up, just like I had pressed the power button.


EDIT 1-5-19 I added acpi=force to grub command a couple days ago. Waiting to see if this cures it. will mark solved in a couple more days.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-01-07
I'm going to mark these 2 threads as SOLVED for now because acpi=force in grub command seems to have fixed them.
.occasional cups delat 1m30s
.occasional restart 1 sec after poweroff


EDIT - nope, didn't solve it. :(

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-01-15
AHA - I'm going to close this because I discovered reason and started new thread:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2410450&p=13831122#post13831122](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2410450&p=13831122#post13831122)

marked solved even though it isn't solved.

---

