---
title: "KDE displays on wrong video card.  Why?"
date: 2006-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RobTN on 2006-05-02
I successfully installed Kubuntu the other day, but I have an ongoing frustration.  I have two video cards.  One is an AGP Radeon 9800Pro 128MB.  The other is a PCI Radeon 7500 64MB.  For some reason Kubuntu will load modules and display the progress on my AGP card as seen here:

[IMG]http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger/839/453/400/bootup.0.jpg[/IMG]

But KDE only displays through my PCI card as shown here (you can see a tiny cursor in the upper-left corner of my main LCD connected to my AGP card):

[IMG]http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger/839/453/400/login.jpg[/IMG]

[IMG]http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger/839/453/400/desktop.jpg[/IMG]

However, when Kubuntu is shutting down, it will display its shutdown progress on my AGP card as shown here:

[IMG]http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger/839/453/400/shutdown.jpg[/IMG]

I looked over my xorg.conf file to see if there was something I could change to make KDE display on my AGP...but I don't see anything that ever says anything about AGP or Radeon 9800Pro.  I tried to look around in System Settings...but I couldn't find anything on choosing which display adapter to use.  I can't even find ANY mention of my AGP Radeon 9800Pro anywhere in any file.  I am 100% newbie to Linux so be gentle.  :)  I did find something that I thought would have been useful in [this particular thread post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=622451&postcount=3").  I tried to find "UseInternalAGPGART" and set it to "no", but I couldn't find that string anywhere.  Of course, what I am trying to do is make KDE display on my AGP card.

I am including my xorg.conf file for you all to see.

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 7500 (RV200 QW)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:9:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"LCD-MONITOR"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 7500 (RV200 QW)"
	Monitor		"LCD-MONITOR"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480" "1x1"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by ltmon on 2006-05-02
It seems that the hardware detection hasn't worked completely and xorg is unaware of your second video card and monitor.

Try forcing another hardware detection and configuration by typing the following into a terminal:

```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

It will ask a series of questions about your hardware, so it allows for you to fix any mistakes the auto detection makes.  If you don't understand the question then the default answer is usually best I have found :)

L.

---

### Post by RobTN on 2006-05-02
Thanks for the reply.  I executed that command you gave me, but I've been sitting here for 5 minutes and nothing has happened.  I've not been offered a dialog box of any kind about anything.  :P  Uh oh.....man, I hate being a newb.

---

### Post by RobTN on 2006-05-02
Oops, I just found out I have to run the command in Konsole....not from the "Run Command" menu option.  I'm learning....slowly.

---

### Post by RobTN on 2006-05-02
Ok, I did it right this time but it still didn't find my AGP card.  This sucks.

---

### Post by ltmon on 2006-05-03
Indeed it does suck :(

Try the following:
```

cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf ~/xorg.conf.backup

```

then reboot, and disable your onboard graphics in the bios.

When you boot up after this, you probably will not get an X session started (i.e. no KDE).  But you will still have access to a console in this case.  Then do another:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```

and see how it works.  

This obviously won't get what you want, but may at least will get you on to your good video card.

You should be able to reverse this procedure pretty easily in case anything goes wrong.  First reenable your onboard card and then:
```

sudo cp ~/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/

```

For more help on getting both cards to work at once you might want to search [http://wiki.kubuntu.org](http://wiki.kubuntu.org) and the forums for keywords "twinview" and "xinerama".

Hope that helps.

L.

---

### Post by RobTN on 2006-05-03
Well, you see, it isn't an onboard video.  My Radeon 9800Pro is a real AGP card...same with my Radeon 7500, it's a real PCI card.  Neither are onboard.  I suppose I could remove my Radeon 7500 and give 'er a try.

Thanks for your help!

---

