---
title: "18.04 corrupted login display, HP Compaq nc8430"
date: 2018-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by phantomstray2k on 2018-05-07
I'm currently having an issue where the login screen of Ubuntu 18.04 is corrupted on my HP Compaq nc8430. Keep in mind, I had no issues when I was on Ubuntu 16.04.

---

### Post by shades_aus on 2018-05-09
> **phantomstray2k said:**
> Im having the same problem with my HP Compaq nc8430

As this is the Mac section, and you have a Compaq, you may have much better luck in the main forum section.
I'm not trying to fob you off however, I don't think a lot of Ubuntu Developers look in this section.

You are more than welcom to use my pictures if you like, it's extremly frustrating however, I have no solution or even where to start being in this forum section and I was moved because I have a Macbook.

I only ask, if you get somewhere, can you please share it with me and I will try similar things for my Macbook that they suggest in the main forums?

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-05-09
Moved to its own thread from [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2390536](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2390536)

---

### Post by phantomstray2k on 2018-05-09
I did manage to get the login screen working however, I was using lightdm instead of gdm3.

---

### Post by shades_aus on 2018-05-15
> **phantomstray2k said:**
> I did manage to get the login screen working however, I was using lightdm instead of gdm3.

Hmm. Would you mind posting some information on how you did this? 
You may be on to something here. The Splash screen works on shutdown and loading, just prior to the log-on so, the graphics driver must be loaded right?
Maybe it's a Gnome thing then. I understood that 18.04 uses X and not Wayland so, unless there is a low-res setting in some config I can change?

---

### Post by shades_aus on 2018-05-20
Ok. I fixed it. with the help of another, more experienced user "djlegge"

What I found is that gdm3 (Gnome manager) is broken somehow with AMD GPU graphics.
To get around it, remove it completely.

I also re-installed lightdm login manager.
Then, I found that the default desktop was also broken and kept kicking me back out to the login screen when I tried to log in so, I chose 'Ubuntu Unity' instead when I type in my username and password section in the now FIXED login manager. Everything now works.

To achieve this, here's what I did.

# sudo apt purge lightdm -y
# sudo apt install lightdm -y <-A screen will pop-up and ask you to choose lightdm or some other login manager. Choose lightdm.
# sudo apt purge gdm3 -y   <- Get rid of gdm3. It's broken.
# sudo reboot

On re-boot, your login screen should now work. I still couldn't log in. When I tried, I got kicked back to the login screen again after around 8 seconds.
So, From there, the login screen, click on the little wheel-like ubuntu circle next to your name and choose Ubuntu Unity as the desktop, not Ubuntu or Wayland.
From there, everything should just work.

Obviously, there are some really bad incompatibilities with gdm3 and Gnome in general with AMD GPUs

This issue is fixed for me now.

---

### Post by phantomstray2k on 2018-06-01
Sorry I wasn&#8217;t able to respond. I have had a busy few weeks because of high school. Anyways, Im glad tha you were able to fix your problem

---

