---
title: "10.4 hangs at ugly splash screen: videocard problem?"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by yozgoesdigital on 2010-05-01
Hi all,
I tried to upgrade from 9.10 to 10.4. Installation went fine except for one message. Do not know the message, but wrote down the path of the file: 
/etc/kernel/header-postinst.d/dkms
After installing had to restart and now the computer hangs on at an ugly kubuntu splash screen (looks like purple 16 colors)
Starting the failsafe start there is a error message 'no screen found'

I got the feeling it has to do something with my nvidia card, but not sure. So I tried looking for an answer, but finding something meanwhile you do not know what your looking for is difficult. Somebody has some suggestions? If additional information is needed just le me know.

running 64 bit
AMD 3500+
gigabyte m57 sli s4
nvidia 7200
xp is still working from other hard disk

*edit* added some details

---

### Post by yozgoesdigital on 2010-05-03
Sorry for replying on my own thread:
The ugly splash screen seems to be reported by others too and is probably related to a bug.

Then it still does not always boot right
I got it to boot normal sometimes (50%) and sometimes get stuck during boot procedure (50%) without seeing any relation. 
Could I find more info about this in a log file somewhere?

---

### Post by Urlich on 2010-08-30
Hi,

This seems to be described as KDM error. 
Try adding line  "sleep 1" in /etc/init/kdm.conf right before "exec kdm" line.

BR

---

