---
title: "10.04, Gnome, Battery Icon missing from Notification Area"
date: 2010-09-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RonB123123 on 2010-09-12
My terminal says:

$ dmesg | grep batt
[    0.514767] ACPI: Battery Slot [BAT0] (battery present)

I have the Power Management set the icon to Always Show and the icon isn't present. However, my network icon and sound icon are present. Rhythmbox is also open and does not show the icon.

If I add the Indicator Applet 0.3.7, it will show my Rhythmbox, Battery icon, sound icon, and an annoying Letter icon but will not show the network icon. Everything was working fine until I did some "partial upgrade" a couple days ago.

[img]http://i53.tinypic.com/vsl7rn.png[/img]

How do I fix this... I'm tired of everything working and then updating and then something breaking. 

Thanks,
Ron

---

### Post by hrickh on 2010-09-12
> **RonB123123 said:**
> My terminal says:

$ dmesg | grep batt
[    0.514767] ACPI: Battery Slot [BAT0] (battery present)

I have the Power Management set the icon to Always Show and the icon isn't present. However, my network icon and sound icon are present. Rhythmbox is also open and does not show the icon.

If I add the Indicator Applet 0.3.7, it will show my Rhythmbox, Battery icon, sound icon, and an annoying Letter icon but will not show the network icon. Everything was working fine until I did some "partial upgrade" a couple days ago.

[IMG]http://i53.tinypic.com/vsl7rn.png[/IMG]

How do I fix this... I'm tired of everything working and then updating and then something breaking. 

Thanks,
Ron
In 10.04, the network icon isn't part of the indicator applet.  It has a separate applet, called NetworkManager Applet. You should be able to add it separately.

Sound and battery are part of the indicator applet.

R.
==

---

### Post by RonB123123 on 2010-09-13
So I should remove the Notification Area and add the Network Manager applet in conjunction with the Indicator applet to see one of each: sound icon, network icon, rhythmbox, battery?

One thing I do not like about the indicator applet is the little email. It won't allow me to remove it.

The way it used to be, all of the icons I wanted were in one simple applet. I'm pretty sure they changed it recently because it was working fine a week ago... Is there a way to get all of those on the same applet?

I'm asking because when Rhythmbox opens, it pushes all the existing icons to the left and if I kill Rhythmbox, it won't move it back to the right and it leaves this empty space in between my Indicator applet and my Notification area. 

And when I go to add panels, Network Manager applet isn't on the list. Is it something I need to install, if so, how do I go about doing that?

Thanks again,
Ron

---

### Post by migs73 on 2010-09-13
To remove the Mail Icon, go to synaptic and search for 'indicator-messages' and remove it. The icon should now be gone (if not try log-out/in).

---

### Post by Noz3001 on 2010-09-13
Try installing indicator-applet-complete package, log out, log in and add it to the panel.

---

### Post by RonB123123 on 2010-09-23
Thanks, that worked in a way. That applet has my Rhythmbox icon, battery icon, sound icon, that annoying mail icon, and surprisingly the User button and the Shutdown button attached but no Time applet in between the User button and the annoying mail icon. 

It would be cool if someone was to make an applet to include all the original icons when you do a clean install, before updates, and you can edit what icons you see. It doesn't even seem possible to remove any components from it unless I was to program my own applet.

Thanks though, I suppose it's solved. :)

---

### Post by foxvan on 2010-10-24
I am not satisfied with the ending of this thread. I have been looking several posts related with issues with gnome panel and notification area. This is my case I am using Lucid, I love the notification area, there i used to have everything, my utorrent icon, skype, pidgin, sound and network manager.

Recently i begin using my laptop without battery, then i noticed that my battery icon had disappeared. Now i have to use the two of them for having all the indicators i need. I would like to know what can i do, is this a normal behavior, and what is the difference between notification area and indicator applet ?

Thank you for your help.

Edit:

Adiitional information, a couple of upgrades ago my weather applet did not worked, now it does !!

---

### Post by slixz85 on 2010-11-29
yeah i've done above steps and my battery icon is gone too and need it back wtf

---

### Post by vi3k6i5 on 2010-12-27
i had the same problem 
what i did was i opened
system -> administration ->  power management
then selected the "general" tab
then select always display an icon...
it worked for me.... try it :)

---

### Post by ankanaan on 2011-08-19
"How do I fix this... I'm tired of everything working and then updating and then something breaking.
"

easy: once all is working block updates :-)

I have the same problem as most people here.  I followed suggestions here and got back sound + battery by adding the indicator and fiddling on the general tab of power control.  

Now, nm-applet won't come up unless I fire nm-applet from a terminal.  Not really horrible, but come on, it could be better than that.  

When I add notification applet I get the three little horizontal bars on the panel as many have said here.  Nothing will make that thing open up and display what is inside it.  I do have plenty of room and contrast in my panel to see stuff there, if there were stuff to be seen.

One of these days an upgrade it will fix itself, then I should stop upgrading :-)

Antonio

---

### Post by vbm on 2011-09-15
same problem here. I tried to upgrade to Gnome3, just to be punted back to the 2.32.1 fallback (mental note: must upgrade laptop?) and now my battery indicator is gone.

Not sure if it should go into the indicator applet complete or the notification area.

If anyone has any idea on how to bring it back to life it would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by PiSquareDelta on 2011-09-21
> **vi3k6i5 said:**
> i had the same problem 
what i did was i opened
system -> administration ->  power management
then selected the "general" tab
then select always display an icon...
it worked for me.... try it :)

Hi! 
I had this problem of battery level indicator disappearing, too. This fix that you mention worked. Thanks.
I'd just like to add that power management is listed under preferences in the system menu. (GNOME 2)

Cheers! :)

---

### Post by PiSquareDelta on 2011-09-21
For the battery level indicator icon: Open power management settings and in the general settings tab change the requisite option to always display an icon. See if it works.

---

### Post by vbm on 2011-09-22
I ended up purging Gnome3 and going back to 2. 3 Does funny things to your preferences and system settings.

---

### Post by jeannieburt on 2012-04-01
Thank you [vi3k6i5]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1196679").  It worked like a charm.

---

