---
title: "8.04 mouse pad issue"
date: 2008-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by capnkyle on 2008-05-04
I just got a Dell XPS 1530 laptop with Vista preloaded, and wanted to try Ubuntu on it.  I downloaded and burned 8.04 today on my desktop, and booted to the tryout load of Ubuntu.  As far as I can tell right now, everything works fine with the exception of the mouse pad.

It booted just fine, no errors or anything that I saw, but when I go to use the mouse pad, the mouse jumps around and clicks randomly, though it seems to like to open the recycle bin.  The mouse buttons also act kinda weird and not clicking or jumping and doing the opposite click (right causes a left...)  The keyboard works just fine.  In Vista, the mouse pad works perfectly.

I was able to plug the USB wireless mouse/keyboard set into this computer, and it works just fine, wireless mouse as well.  However, the mouse pad still jumps and clicks randomly.


Are there any drivers I should try updating or settings I should change?

Specs:
1.83 Ghz dual core
2 Gb ram
Ubuntu 8.04
Dell XPS M1530
nVidia GeForce 8400M Video Card

Any suggestions on what I should do?
I was looking to install 8.04 and dual boot, but if the mouse pad is going to go all wonky on me, Im afraid it will probably be a deal breaker :( so I would like any help I can get.

---

### Post by capnkyle on 2008-05-04
I just found [_this_](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=762924) thread which has a fix that I tried (post 6), but it didn't seem to have any effect.

Any other suggestions?

edit:
Okay, I just looked in the packages, and found the touchpad config program.  that installs just fine, but when I try to run it, it tells me:
> GSynaptics couldn't initialize.
You have to set 'SHMConfig' 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config
to use GSynaptics

As I am just running Ubuntu off the live cd for now, can I still make changes to my xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by capnkyle on 2008-05-04
here is my xorg.conf.

[quote=xorg.conf]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection[/quote]

---

### Post by slyhne on 2008-05-04
Hi

I had the same problem, but fixed it by adding this to my /boot/menu.lst

i8042.nomux=1

My boot section looks like this for my  Dell XPS M1530:

> title		Ubuntu 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic
root		(hd0,5)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=8971ac7c-256e-471b-b415-0e33249223ad ro quiet splash noapic i8042.nomux=1
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
quiet

Regards

Slyhne

PS: the noapic helps the wireless to work better!

---

### Post by capnkyle on 2008-05-04
Thanks slyhne,

so it sounds like I will not be able to fix this until I actually install Ubuntu?

Guess Ill go ahead and install it and see what happens

---

### Post by capnkyle on 2008-05-04
awesome, that worked.  thanks :)

---

