---
title: "12.04 - disable &quot;try / install&quot; option during boot?"
date: 2012-07-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Steve_Karl on 2012-07-08
I'm running 12.04 from a USB stick and will never want to install it to a hard disk.

Is there a way to disable the "try / install" option during boot up and make it boot like Lucid boots from a USB stick, i.e. directly to the desktop with no choices needing to be made?

Thank you!

Steve

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-07-10
> **Steve_Karl said:**
> I'm running 12.04 from a USB stick and will never want to install it to a hard disk.

Is there a way to disable the "try / install" option during boot up and make it boot like Lucid boots from a USB stick, i.e. directly to the desktop with no choices needing to be made?


You can manually edit the menus on the USB install, look in the .cfg files inside the **syslinux** folder for the appropriate area you want to change.

Always back up the original file in case you make a mistake.

---

### Post by Steve_Karl on 2012-07-10
Thanks David,

I'm not finding the option in any of the .cfg files inside the syslinux folder, 
other than in gfxboot.cfg line 11, changing 
append oem=oem-config/enable=true
to
append oem=oem-config/enable=false
but
no luck with that.

however in boot > grub there is loopback.cfg
that appears to be the correct thing to edit:

==============
menuentry "Try Ubuntu without installing" {
	linux	/casper/vmlinuz  file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper iso-scan/filename=${iso_path} quiet splash --
	initrd	/casper/initrd.lz
}
menuentry "Install Ubuntu" {
	linux	/casper/vmlinuz  file=/cdrom/preseed/ubuntu.seed boot=casper only-ubiquity iso-scan/filename=${iso_path} quiet splash --
	initrd	/casper/initrd.lz
}
menuentry "Check disc for defects" {
	linux	/casper/vmlinuz  boot=casper integrity-check iso-scan/filename=${iso_path} quiet splash --
	initrd	/casper/initrd.lz
}
menuentry "Test memory" {
	linux16	/install/mt86plus
}
==============
HOWEVER, I've tried delete the file loopback.cfg and also just removing the content above, leaving an empty file
and no lusk. The "try / install" menu is still there.

-------------
Can you be more specific about what to look for in the .cfg files inside of the syslinux folder?

My test editor can search all .cfg files in the folder for specific terms if you have any suggestions.

Thank you,

Steve

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-07-10
Hello
You should also create a bug report for Ubiquity (the Ubuntu installer) here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity)

---

### Post by Steve_Karl on 2012-07-10
> **YannBuntu said:**
> Hello
You should also create a bug report for Ubiquity (the Ubuntu installer) here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubiquity)

I don't think it qualifies as a bug since it's currently working as I suspect it was designed.
I just want to modify the existing bootup behavior to make it easier for me to use the USB stick the same way I more easily
boot with 10.04 Lucid, i.e. no need to answer any questions.

---

### Post by Steve_Karl on 2012-07-20
bump!

Lucid is fine but I'd like to get 12.04 working smoothly as a flash disk also.

Does anyone know how to by pass this?

Thanks!

---

### Post by tf101wizard on 2012-08-30
> **Steve_Karl said:**
> bump!

Lucid is fine but I'd like to get 12.04 working smoothly as a flash disk also.

Does anyone know how to by pass this?

Thanks!

well i think your problem is not your rootfs but mabe the kernel it may require recompiling the kernel i dont know exactly how it works but it may require alot of code or a very small and simple code but for the mean time try booting the lucid kernel on the ubuntu rootfs it wont boot but it will give you some errors to start from

---

