---
title: "9.04 Intel 945GM large Virtual screen and DRI ( &gt; 2048px)"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mdeneen on 2009-04-27
I have a Dell Latitude laptop with Intel 945GM video, running 9.04. Let me start off by saying that 9.04 is great, and I can tell that an immense amount of hard work has gone into this release.

I believe that, because of Compiz, I am limited to a 2048x2048 virtual desktop with this chipset. I have the laptop display as well as another monitor I'd like to run at 1600x1200. Attempting to use them in a left + right configuration disables DRI (slow) because I exceed the 2048 pixel wide limit. If I configure it to use my laptop display as the "bottom" screen and the monitor as the "top" screen, I fit within the 2048x2048 limit and everything is snappy.

Is there any way I can keep the left + right monitor setup while leaving DRI enabled? I have enough video memory.. it's just not in the right spot. :smile:  Would disabling Compiz help?

Mark

(I also posted this under laptops, but after some consideration this might have been a better place to post, as the 945GM is in more places than laptops)

---

### Post by Thelasko on 2009-04-27
> **mdeneen said:**
> Is there any way I can keep the left + right monitor setup while leaving DRI enabled? I have enough video memory.. it's just not in the right spot. :smile:  Would disabling Compiz help?

Nope, unless you want to rewrite the drivers, and that might not even do it.  [Here's some details about the problem.]("http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#the_Virtual_screen")

I'm quite impressed with your grasp of this issue.  I've never understood why it matters what the "virtual" dimensions are if the area is the same.  However, I do know that it matters.

---

### Post by mdeneen on 2009-04-27
> **Thelasko said:**
> Nope, unless you want to rewrite the drivers, and that might not even do it.  [Here's some details about the problem.]("http://www.thinkwiki.org/wiki/Xorg_RandR_1.2#the_Virtual_screen")

I'm quite impressed with your grasp of this issue.  I've never understood why it matters what the "virtual" dimensions are if the area is the same.  However, I do know that it matters.

I figured as much.  The driver would have to have a memory address translator, such that it maps a particular .. coordinate? to a different address.  This would slightly slow down the rest of the video performance though.  I might dig through the driver source and see how bad it is.  I'll probably get scared off though.  :-D

Interestingly enough, XP gets this almost right on the same laptop.  Unfortunately, XP always puts my CRT to the "left", even though it is physically on the "right".

In short, I'll get a laptop with an nvidia chipset next time.

---

