---
title: "Problems doing full backup with rsync"
date: 2007-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by atomic_turtle on 2007-08-11
Hi,

I'm trying to do a full (and lateron incremental) backup of my Desktop running Kubuntu Edgy, "full" meaning that I want to backup from four different places: The root-partition, the home-partition, a common win-linux-data-partition and a USB Stick.
I already have the commands in place and put together in a script, but there are still some issues:
1) On the USB-stick, Ubuntu has installed a hidden folder named "Trash-1000" which is kind of annoying anyway because it takes up space and, well, there's a reason I am going to the trouble of keeping backups. Is there a way to get rid of that altogether or at least have it emptied regularly? For some reason, rsync insists on backing up this trash folder and all of its subfolders
2) When I do a backup of /, then by default this will also encompass /home and /media with all its subfolders which is not what I want.
I guess the solution to these two issues would be the same - exclude certain directories from the backup. Can somebody help me with the syntax here? I post the command I already have ( I have it four times for the four different partitions I want to back up):

rsync --delete -avzb /media/"UDISK 2.0" /media/linuc/usbbk --backup-dir=/media/linuc/oldfromusb

Thanks a lot!
Regards,

atomic_turtle

---

### Post by raja on 2007-08-11
Setting up a list of files/folders to exclude should be the best way to do it.
You can make a list in a file (say ~/.rsync/excludes) with each file/folder/wildcard pattern in one line. Then add the argument --exclude-from=~/.rsync/excludes to the rsync command. Always test out with a dry run (-n) before you finalise the script.

---

### Post by keithweddell on 2007-08-11
I think a .Trash folder is created for each separate file system.  You can easily delete it (maybe as part of your script) but, depending on file permissions, you may need root privilidges to do so.  But it will get recreated next time you delete something.

You probably don't want to back up the whole of the / partition - backing up some directories like /proc and /sys will give some odd results as they are constantly moving targets.

Do you need to do 4 separate rsync commands?  You can probably just do 1 on / which will backup /home, /media etc in one pass.  Of course, you may have a reason for keeping the 4 partitions separate so ignore me as appropriate.

The --exclude-file= option is the best way to control what rsync backs up, as suggested above.  It took me a while to figure out the format of the file but I found some examples by googling.


Keith

---

### Post by atomic_turtle on 2007-08-11
Hi,

thanks for the answers!
Well, I have been trying for a while now to delete the .Trash folder or at least its contents from my USB stick, but I keep getting the message that it's a read-only filesystem, even when I try it as root.
You're probably right, backing up all the root-partition is not necessary and if there are some risks involved, why bother. Which directories would you think it would be sensible to back up? I am actually aiming at the configuration files and everything I have changed myself so I don't lose those settings if disaster strikes.
I think keeping four separate backup files makes it  a bit easier to keep the overview and as I can put all the commands in a script, it isn't really more difficult or anything.
I will have a look on google for some examples and put a list of folders to exclude together.
One more general question: Is this Trash-folder generated by KDE or by the underlying Ubuntu system, in other words: Will it be the same issue on a Xubuntu system? I want to help a friend install one next weekend and I'd like to help him with a way to do regular backups too, so if the issue is the same, I'll just do the same on his Notebook as on my Desktop.
Best regards,

atomic_turtle

---

### Post by keithweddell on 2007-08-11
Ah yes the USB stick probably has a FAT filesystem.  Don't think I can help with that.  But I think the Trash folder is generated by the underlying system so I don't think using Xubuntu will make a difference.

I backup /home, /boot, /etc, /opt, /root and parts of /var (backups, cache, log and www).  I reckon that covers everything that I can't reinstall from installation disk or repositories.  But I backup databases and package lists to /var/backups first.

For what it's worth, if it helps my include/exclude file looks like this: 
```

# Files patterns to be included in main backup
+ /boot
+ /etc
+ /home
- /home/user/store
+ /opt
+ /root
+ /var
+ /var/backups
+ /var/cache
+ /var/log
+ /var/www
- /var/*
- /*

```

Keith

---

### Post by atomic_turtle on 2007-08-12
Hi keithweddell,

thank you very much! You're saving me a lot of time with that include/exclude list! That certainly helps.
I think I know how to backup a list of all the packages installed on my sistem.
The only thing that's unclear: What exactly do you mean by "databases" when you say you back up the databases and package lists to /var/backup first?
I will look for a solution to my Trash-issue in another forum. For the moment, just excluding it from the backup will do and it's not too much of a problem on the USB-stick bc it's relatively small - but, well, yesterday I realized that this folder had reached a size of about 30GB on my external drive which is definitely too much  ;-)
Best regards,

atomic_turtle

---

### Post by keithweddell on 2007-08-12
I run mysqldump, ldapsearch and dpkg -l, redirecting the outputs to files in /var/backups.  This makes dumps of my mysql databases, ldap data and installed package list so that I can back them up with rsync.  If you tried to backup, for example, a mysql database with rsync you could run into trouble because it's a moving target and could corrupt your backup.

It might be worth starting a new thread here with the Trash problem in the title to attract attention to it.  At present, only people interested in rsync will look at this thread.


Keith

---

### Post by atomic_turtle on 2007-08-12
Okay, thanks! Then that with the databases will not be relevant to me as I have no ldap and no mysql database. I'll only do a list of installed packages.
Say, as you seem to know your way around rsync quite well - do you know if it would be possible to do incremental backups on CDRWs? A friend of mine is a first-time user and he doesn't have an external HDD. Of course, one could do backups on another partition on the internal one, but if the system crashes, they're hard to get at...
I suppose the lines with a + in that list get included, the ones with a - don't?
You're certainly right about the thread. I'll do that.
Thanks again and best regards,

atomic_turtle

P.S.: Ah, now I realize - if I want to have four separate backup files, then I can't use a single file to keep the list of folders to be included or excluded, but I'd need several.
I suppose that in order for this list to work, the backup command must look somewhat like this:
rsync --delete -avzb [include-option goes here]  / /media/linuc/rootbk

---

### Post by keithweddell on 2007-08-13
I've not tried to do incremental backups directly onto a CDRW.  I think you would need to look into packet writing and udf file systems.  I played with them very briefly but didn't get it to work.   But you're right, it's best to keep a backup outside of the source machine if possible so you might need to think up other options - USB stick? non-incremental backups?

You are also right about the + and - in the include file and the way I have the rsync commands set up.  Have a good read of the man page and run some trials on a spare partition if possible to make sure that you get what you thought you would in the backup.

Good luck.


Keith

---

### Post by atomic_turtle on 2007-09-07
Hi,

this thread has been lying for a while, so I don't know if anyone is going to look in here - I have problems with my backup routine using rsync. I am using basically the same command for backing up each of my Home directory, the root directory, my data partition (I had that for use on Linux and Windows, now I don't use Win anymore) and my USB stick.
For example, for my Home-directory, it looks like this:

sync --exclude=.local/share/Trash --delete -avzb /home /media/linuc/homebk --backup-dir=/media/linuc/oldfromhome; 

So, the file .local/share/Trash is excluded. That works fine if it's only one directory I want to exclude bc I can write it directly into the command. But if there's more than one - as is certainly the case with the root directory - I cannot do it that way, at least it's not practical. There is the possibility of creating a text file with a list of the directories to be excluded. Only, I can't seem to get the syntax right so the command actually reads out the directories listed there and excludes them from the backup.
Either I have got the format of the file wrong (which I think is rather improbable bc I've done it to mimic the example Keithweddell gave me earlier in this thread, only without the + lines) or the syntax of the command is wrong - I've tried out inserting the option ("exclude-from=[path] in various places in the command, but up to now I haven't got a hit. Can anybody help me with this one?
Thanks a lot!
Regards,

atomic_turtle

---

### Post by keithweddell on 2007-09-12
HI,

Just found the alert for this thread.  My current command is:

 rsync -aW --del --files-from=/path/to/file --exclude=/path/to/file1 --exclude=/path/to/file2 / /path/to/targetdirectory

If this doesn't put you on the right track, post the error messages you get and I'll see if I can figure anything out.


Keith

---

