---
title: "8.04/.10 issues, reverting back to 7.10"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Deten on 2008-12-22
I have been using 8.04 since release as well as 8.10 but I have run into a few problems.

1.  My internet will cut out randomly when downloading requiring me to restart.

2. Sound volume is zero at around 55-60% volume.

3. Only 1 audio source at a time

I love ubuntu, but these new releases are giving me so much trouble.

Anyone else having similar issues?

---

### Post by Deten on 2008-12-22
[http://forums.linksys.com/linksys/board/message?board.id=Wireless_Routers&thread.id=110488&view=by_date_ascending&page=2](http://forums.linksys.com/linksys/board/message?board.id=Wireless_Routers&thread.id=110488&view=by_date_ascending&page=2)

aparrantly the wireless dropping is a router issue


*edit* cancel that.  It maybe for other people, but for me I ONLY drop in ubuntu, my xp boot doesnt have the issue.  And it happens every 5 minutes on ubuntu.

---

### Post by sdennie on 2008-12-22
Your sound problems may be caused by Pulse Audio.  Try going to System->Preferences->Sound and changing everything to ALSA.  Alternatively you can attempt to fix Pulse with this guide: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=789578)

---

### Post by Deten on 2008-12-22
I followed that sound setup and it still gives me issue:

At about 50-60% sound volume, my speakers output nothing.

Its almoast as if my range was condensed into 50% rather than 100%

---

### Post by Deten on 2008-12-22
I installed 7.10 and it seemed to detect both my internet and audio nicely.

I dont remember what driver is used in 8.10, but this one uses "ipw3945" for wireless.

What changed between 7.10 and 8.10 that caused my sound and internet to break?

(fyi I had the same problem in 8.04, but pushed through hoping 8.10 would fix it)

I miss all the new additions, but its just to important to have reliable sound and internet.

---

### Post by Vantrax on 2008-12-22
Id suggest you give it another try and hit up irc on freenode to the #ubuntu channel. 

7.10 will not be supported for much longer and there are alot of updates your missing.

---

### Post by Deten on 2008-12-22
ill try irc, but id rather miss out on updates and have consistency than update and loose my internet abilities...

I'll give irc a shot here.

---

### Post by Deten on 2008-12-24
okay I gave it another shot and got my internet working... which is the most important

I am just not updated any of the internet stuff right now.  Maybe we can find a more savvy way to fix that.

Sound is still giving me an issue.

---

### Post by Deten on 2009-01-10
technically i didnt get my internet working... while it logs on fine... it seems to drop my connection when using any torrent program.  I then have to restart to get my connection working agian.

---

### Post by sdennie on 2009-01-10
> **Deten said:**
> technically i didnt get my internet working... while it logs on fine... it seems to drop my connection when using any torrent program.  I then have to restart to get my connection working agian.

It's possible that your ISP is kicking torrent users.  This sometimes happens if you are in the U.S.  Your "unlimited" connection is actually very limited.

---

### Post by Deten on 2009-01-27
Heres the facts:

*Happens ONLY with wireless:  if I plug in it doesnt do it
*Happens ONLY in ubuntu: when I reboot into windows I get no problem wireless or plugged in

---

### Post by Deten on 2009-03-22
Still getting dropped from internet every 5-10 minutes.

Any help would be appreciated!

---

