---
title: "9.10 wireless connection freezes system (LiveUSB)"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gaelfx on 2009-10-30
I would like to note from the beginning that I have not attempted using a wired connection and I have not installed the system yet, so perhaps this issue is moot post-installation, but I can't be sure and I don't want to install until I am sure.

I downloaded the UNR .iso and put it on a 2GB USB flash drive using unetbootin and everything boots fine, I get to the desktop and the mouse and keyboard seem responsive enough and I don't have trouble opening apps, but when I try to connect to my wireless network, the connection message pops up and the mouse and keyboard stop working. If I wait a while, the connection message whites out (but leaves an artifact on the screen). The strange thing is that I can press the power button and the Shutdown dialog appears; if I close it, it also whites out in the same way the connection message did and the keyboard/mouse remain unresponsive.

Question 1: Is this a known issue?
Question 2: Can this problem be resolved by simply installing to disk?

My computer is an MSI Wind U120, everything is as-is from the manufacturer, the wireless card is using Atheros AR928X chipset. Any information, whether confirmation or conjecture, is much appreciated.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-30
A quick google on your network card and karmic reveals this bug:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/426130](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/426130)

Reportedly using wicd instead of networkmanager is a working.. work around.

Perhaps subscribe to the bug so you can be informed of fixes or other work arounds.

---

### Post by saleminkb on 2009-10-30
I had the same issue when installing karmic on my u120.  This problem was resolved when I actually installed it to disk.  However,  my usb ports do not seem to work with karmic, I would suggest sticking with jaunty, at least for the time being.

---

