---
title: "setting up new hard drive"
date: 2007-10-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by themoebius on 2007-10-04
I just got a new hard drive and I've created an ext3 partition on it with gparted, but it isn't showing up on my desktop. I rebooted and its in the My Computer window, but when I double click on it, it says its restricted and asks for my root password to mount it. I looked in the fstab and it's not listed there.

Ubuntu handles all my other hard drives fine, internal and external. Why isn't it doing anything to this one? I know I could add a line to my fstab, but that seems messy to me. For example if I add another hard drive, the /dev point could change. How can I get all these things to be managed automatically?

---

### Post by finer recliner on 2007-10-04
fstab is not usually not edited automatically. you need to edit that yourself. and just because a partition is mounted presently, does not mean that it will show up in fstab.

fstab is the file you create so your hard drives are all mounted for you automatically. but you have to edit fstab yourself.
mtab (/etc/mtab) is the file that tells you what is currently mounted. do not edit this file; it is generated automatically.

try reading this guide (its for NTFS, but you should be able to get the idea for your ext3 partition):
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

---

### Post by themoebius on 2007-10-04
Yeah, like I was saying in my first message:
> 
I know I could add a line to my fstab, but that seems messy to me. For example if I add another hard drive, the /dev point could change. How can I get all these things to be managed automatically?


The other drives that ARE handled automatically use the UUID, which I think is related to udev. How can I do the same for my new drive?

I suspect the answer to my question is, ubuntu DOESN'T handle hard drives automatically, you have to manage them manually by editing fstab. Can anyone confirm this? If that is the case, I will submit a bug report because its a major usability flaw. If ubuntu is trying to sell itself as a new-user friendly operating system, people should be able to do something as simple as added a new hard drive without learning how to edit their fstab or even having to understand the concept of mount points.

---

