---
title: "./configure doesn't work"
date: 2009-02-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Valok on 2009-02-05
I'm trying to install a newer version of firefox (3.1 beta) and the only way to do that at the moment is through a tar.bz2.

I've got the file downloaded, and unzipped on my desktop.  But when I move to Desktop/firefox in my terminal and type ./configure it returns "directory does not exist"

I do have build-essential downloaded and installed, but I haven't been able to find the solution to this other places on the internet.  I'd love any help you can offer :)

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-02-05
sounds like there is no configure file there... Are you sure installation requires it? Did you look at the INSTALL or README file that comes packaged with the source?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-02-05
With firefox, you just run it from it current directory after you've unpacked it.

```
cd ~/Desktop/firefox
./firefox
```

---

### Post by ibutho on 2009-02-05
The file you downloaded does not need to be built because it already contains a prebuilt binary. You simply need to extract the contents, change into the extracted firefox directory and then click on the icon labelled firefox and Firefox should run. You can also do this from the cli e.g.
```
cd downloads
tar xjvf firefox-VERSION.tar.bz2
cd firefox
./firefox

```
The example above assumes that you have downloaded the firefox tarball into a directory called "downloads" in your home directory.

---

### Post by Valok on 2009-02-05
Awesome, thanks guys!  Now I just have to figure out where I should put the file for permanent use, and how to make a shortcut to it.

And just to be clear, if I need to do this in the future, then the folder containing all the files will have a file called 'configure' in it if I need to run that command, right?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-02-05
Are you the only user on the system?  You can create a new ~/bin and unpack the new firefox in there.  Then, click the right button of your mouse while the cursor is on the top panel and pick Add to Panel -> Custom Application Launcher -> Add and type in the path to where you have unpacked the new firefox (i.e. /home/your_username/Desktop/firefox/firefox _or_ /home/your_username/bin/firefox/firefox).

---

### Post by Valok on 2009-02-05
I am the only user on my computer at the moment, so that will work great.  Thanks!

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-02-05
You can get FF source code as well. I am currently using FF that was compiled from source....

---

