---
title: "10.04  Great Productivity hit"
date: 2010-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Carignan on 2010-06-01
3 weeks ago i decided to give Ubuntu 10.04 a try.  Put at great cost, my productivity!  don't get me wrong i like Ubuntu.  but there isso much things that "do not just work"

I have a Toshiba Satellite A200-AH9.

WIFI
The Wifi drop from time to time.  never had this problem before under window.  it can work for many hours in a row, or can broke every 10 minutes.

when it drop, it take a Looooong time to reconnect.  sometime it reconnect itself, sometime it don't.

A faster way to reconnect after a drop:  Right click on the Network manager icon,  i do Deactivate the network  then  i reactivate it.  that way the reconnect is fast.


VPN under Wifi
In order to the VPN to work with WIFI i had to deactivate my wired LAN card.

Remote Desktop
Remote Desktop works fine, except when the VPN drop due to a WIFI drop.  after that the CTRL-ALT-ENTER  do not return me to the ubuntu desktop.  and there is NO key press sequence that can return me to the desktop.  the only thing i can do is to press the power button of my laptop in order to do a hard reboot.  i have to do this 2 to 3 times per hours....  great great Productivity lost. and very frustrating.


Dashboard
The icons in  the dashboard get shuffled from time to time... sometime i get doubles icons. sometime i loose some icons.

Gnome
Sometime i can no longer close a window. if the application is having a problem.  the window will not close even is i click on the X  one hundred times.  i have to go to the system monitor and KILL the process.  it append with remote desktop, pitivy, wine apps and some others that I do not remember


well after writing this rant  i realized that all my frustrations and productivity lost come from the fact that the wifi is not stable at all.  and considering the thousands and thousands posts related  to this problem under Ubuntu divers forum/help i must conclude that this a major major weak spots under Ubuntu that need to be address urgently.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-01
you need to check into synaptic if the "tosh" packages are installed: toshset, toshutils, fnfxd

---

### Post by Carignan on 2010-06-01
> **dino99 said:**
> you need to check into synaptic if the "tosh" packages are installed: toshset, toshutils, fnfxd

Yes, Nice set of tools :)  tks a lot.  i was not award of that.

but this has nothing to do with the frequent wifi connection drop.

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-06-01
Check System->Administration->Hardware Drivers for a wireless driver.  If there isn't one available, [this thread]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-laptop-and-netbook-25/toshiba-satellite-a200-ubuntu-wifi-not-working-591783/") suggests using ndiswrapper to install a Windows driver for the wireless.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-06-01
Cant' help with the wi-fi but to stop the shuffling of icons on the panel first arrange them as you wish then go...

System=>Preferences=>Startup Applications and select the Options tab.

select/tick  the box for "Automatically remember running applications when logging out" and close.

Now whenever you shutdown just close all open windows.

From now on when you reboot your icon layout will be as you set it.

---

### Post by Carignan on 2010-06-01
FYI: The wifi card is: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG

---

