---
title: "Monitor Resolution &amp; Refresh Rate Problem"
date: 2009-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PurpleDog on 2009-01-28
Sorry for posting this on two places but I would REALLY like to get this working.

I am new to Linux and cannot get my display right. I have installed Ubuntu 8.10 and after install my resolution was 800x600@50Hz. Then there was a prompt that told me to update my NVIDIA graphics driver and I proceeded to do the automatic update and install process and then it said that it was successful. Now I only have 640x480@50Hz.

I normally run my PC 1024x768@100Hz. My graphics card is NVIDIA GeForce 7600 GS. My monitor is a Philips Brilliance 202P4.

**Help ! What do I do now ?????**

**Following is the stats of my monitor:**

Size and Deflection - 21-inch/51 cm, 90 degrees deflection angle
Dot Pitch / Grille Pitch - 0.25 mm
Tube Type - Aperture grille, flat, high-contrast, anti-glare, anti-static, anti-reflection, light transmission 41%
Phosphor - P22
Recommended Display Area - 15.4" x 11.6" / 392 X 294 mm
Maximum Display Area - 16.0" x 12.0" / 406 x 305 mm
Scanning - Horizontal Scanning: 30-130 kHz, Vertical Scanning: 50-160 Hz
Video Dot Rate - 320MHz
Input Impedance - Video: 75 ohm, Sync: 2.2 k-ohms
Input Signal Levels - 0.7 Vpp, Separate Sync
Sync Input Signal - Composite Sync
Sync Polarities - Positive and Negative
White Color Temperature:
9300 K degrees: x = 0.283 / y = 0.297 
6500 K degrees: x = 0.313 / y = 0.329 
5500 K degrees: x = 0.332 / y = 0.347

**This is what my xorg.conf document looks like:**

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
DefaultDepth 24
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-01-28
I'm assuming you don't have any other option in System->Preferences->Screen Resolution?  And you've tried the Detect Displays button?

If you've tried all of that, then [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973") might be of help.

---

### Post by Gramps on 2009-01-28
Had the same problem on my wife's laptop, this is what I did and was able to change the resolution to 1024x768, the refresh rate was 60 so I left it alone don't know if it will go higher.

```

Installed Ubuntu 8.10 and the screen resolution defaults to 800x600 which isn't pretty on this screen. Follow the steps below and then restart and you should now be able to change the resolution to 1024x768

Type “sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf”

Add the Sync / Refresh lines into the Monitor section so it looks like this: Add lines in Bold

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Generic Monitor"
Option "DPMS"
HorizSync 28-70
VertRefresh 43-60
EndSection

```

---

### Post by davosba on 2009-01-29
Have you installed nvidia-settings?
Install it from synaptic and see if you can change the settings with that.
First back up your xorg: sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
Run it from system->administration
or type : sudo nvidia-settings in the terminal
Change the resolution and refresh rates and let it update your xorg (I prefer not to merge it with the old one).
Restart X: crt+alt+backspace
Hopefully it will work.

---

