---
title: "Help booting Ubuntu"
date: 2010-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Newuser86 on 2010-05-21
Hey guys, I have just tried to install Ubuntu on my new Acer laptop and I obviously have done something wrong. I installed it through a USB drive (4 GB) using Unetbootin to make it bootable (laptop does not have an optical drive). I booted to the USB drive and double clicked on the install Ubuntu 10.04 LTS icon that was on the desktop. I told it to format my HDD and install Ubuntu over Windows 7. It was connected to the network, so it was able to get all it needed.

After it installed, I rebooted the machine and removed the USB drive and let it try to boot. A blank screen showed up with a white blinking typing cursor in the upper left hand corner of the screen. It just sits there doing nothing.

Now, I can get the system to boot if I tell it to try to boot to the USB drive through the BIOS and put the drive back in and it will boot up fine. I can remove the drive and everything will work until I try to reboot without the drive in the system.

I'm kind of new to Linux, only used it a few times before and its been awhile. I'm at a loss of what to do to fix this. I just got my laptop today and I can't use it now. Can anyone tell me how to fix this?

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-21
Run the [bootinfoscript]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/") and post the results. That'll get the ball rolling.

---

### Post by Newuser86 on 2010-05-21
Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for /boot/grub.
 => No boot loader is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       vfat
    Boot sector type:  Fat32
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

sdb1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sdb2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  Unknown
    Boot sector info:  

sdb5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 4110 MB, 4110228480 bytes
16 heads, 63 sectors/track, 7964 cylinders, total 8027790 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63     8,027,789     8,027,727   b W95 FAT32


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sdb1               2,048   953,563,135   953,561,088  83 Linux
/dev/sdb2         953,565,182   976,773,119    23,207,938   5 Extended
/dev/sdb5         953,565,184   976,773,119    23,207,936  82 Linux swap / Solaris


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        36B3-798F                              vfat                                     
/dev/sda: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sdb1        80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2   ext4                                     
/dev/sdb2: PTTYPE="dos" 
/dev/sdb5        8cab1adc-6e0b-46d7-b1d9-22acd854ed14   swap                                     
/dev/sdb: PTTYPE="dos" 

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sdb1        /                        ext4       (rw,errors=remount-ro)
/dev/sda1        /media/36B3-798F         vfat       (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=udisks,uid=1000,gid=1000,shortname=mixed,dmask=0077,utf8=1,flush)


=========================== sdb1/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd1,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd1,1)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-22-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-22-generic root=UUID=80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-22-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-22-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.32-22-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-22-generic root=UUID=80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2 ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-22-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-21-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic root=UUID=80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-21-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.32-21-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic root=UUID=80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2 ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd1,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 80a3b255-bcd3-4ce6-9252-cc9876143fd2
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sdb1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
/dev/sdb1       /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sdb5 during installation
UUID=8cab1adc-6e0b-46d7-b1d9-22acd854ed14 none            swap    sw              0       0

=================== sdb1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


   4.4GB: boot/grub/core.img
  17.4GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
   4.4GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
   4.4GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-22-generic
   4.4GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic
    .3GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-22-generic
   4.4GB: initrd.img
   4.4GB: initrd.img.old
    .3GB: vmlinuz
   4.4GB: vmlinuz.old
=========================== Unknown MBRs/Boot Sectors/etc =======================

Unknown BootLoader  on sdb2

00000000  ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff  ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff  |................|
*
000001b0  ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff  ff ff ff ff ff ff 00 fe  |................|
000001c0  ff ff 82 fe ff ff 02 00  00 00 00 20 62 01 00 00  |........... b...|
000001d0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  |................|
*
000001f0  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 55 aa  |..............U.|
00000200

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-21
It looks like, when you boot from a usb, your computer set's it to be the first hard drive. so /dev/sda is your usb, and /dev/sdb is your hard drive. 

So let's just try installing grub to your hard drive first. Boot using the usb, and then install the grub bootloader.
```
sudo grub-install /dev/sdb
```

This may still not work, because the grub menu (/boot/grub/grub.cfg is expecting that it's on /sdb; more precisely there's a line saying set root=(hd1,1).

So, you can either change the device map to tell it that /dev/sdb is hd0 and then run update-grub, or you can manually edit the grub.cfg one time and then reboot and run update-grub afterwards.

Sound confusing? I had this same problem on one of my computers. Just can't remember everything I did off hand. 

Try:
```
sudo grub-mkdevicemap
gksudo gedit /boot/grub/device.map
```

The first creates the device.map file, the second opens it for edit. Change it to be:
```
(hd1)	/dev/sda
(hd0)	/dev/sdb

```
Then run ```
sudo update-grub
```

Check the /boot/grub/grub.cfg file and make sure that the line says "set root='(hd0,1)'"

Then remove usb and reboot.

If you end up at a grub rescue prompt, enter the following (write down now):```
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,1)'
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda1 ro quiet splash
initrd /initrd.img
boot
```

And run sudo update-grub when you reboot.

Any questions?

---

### Post by Newuser86 on 2010-05-21
Thank you very much. I ran the first command you showed me "sudo grub-install /dev/sdb" and its booting without the help of the USB drive.

Another question though, sound I go ahead and go through the rest of the steps? I mean, if I did the rest of that would it change my HDD to sda instead of sdb? Does that even matter?

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-05-21
> **Newuser86 said:**
> Thank you very much. I ran the first command you showed me "sudo grub-install /dev/sdb" and its booting without the help of the USB drive.

Another question though, sound I go ahead and go through the rest of the steps? I mean, if I did the rest of that would it change my HDD to sda instead of sdb? Does that even matter?

No, if it's working you are good to go. It never hurts to run "sudo update-grub", but don't do any of the other stuff. 
I guess I just expected the worst ;)

---

