---
title: "10.04 eyetoy and skype?"
date: 2010-07-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-07-20
hello,

can anyone please show me how to get the playstation 2 eyetoy working with skype? i just want to talk to one of my best friends really badly, and i don.t have the money right now to buy a camera..

any help is greatly appreciated
thanks

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-07-20
*bump*

---

### Post by gagne on 2010-07-20
Not sure if this is going to help you but at least you have a starting point:
[http://forum.skype.com/index.php?showtopic=113717](http://forum.skype.com/index.php?showtopic=113717)

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-07-20
sorry that only applied to the ps3......

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-07-20
bump...............

---

### Post by LowSky on 2010-07-20
Please don't bump more than once every 24 hours. The Moderators don't like it when people do that here.

Lastly I found this by searching the forums
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1586690&postcount=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1586690&postcount=1)

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-07-20
sorry for bumping.... and that is just for the eyetoy itself.... there are no instructions for skype

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-07-20
okay guys so i actually have everything figured out... i.ll mark this as solved and start a new thread for another question involving this

---

### Post by Alonso_91 on 2010-10-28
Hey could you please post how you solved this? Or if you put the solution in another thread could you post a link. I am still trying to figure out why my eyetoy shows the image with negative colours and i cant use its mic in skype! 
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by owners4life5 on 2010-11-09
> **Alonso_91 said:**
> Hey could you please post how you solved this? Or if you put the solution in another thread could you post a link. I am still trying to figure out why my eyetoy shows the image with negative colours and i cant use its mic in skype! 
Thanks in advance

i.m sorry but it was such a 'technical fix' that i can.t exactly remember how i fixed it, except that i had to get a driver off of [this]("http://www.rastageeks.org/") website....

so sorry for not remembering, and posting a bit late...i wasn.t notified for some reason.

------

[HERE]("http://www.rastageeks.org/ov51x-jpeg/index.php/Main_Page") is a better link.

---

### Post by kiddykoff on 2011-02-27
i don't think this should be marked solved. I came here with the same problem, expecting a solution. meh.

---

### Post by towheedm on 2011-02-27
I have no idea why people still have this problem and some keep saying things bout drivers and stuff.

This will work for Karmic, Lucid and Maverick.  I have used it in all three.  Do the following:

1.  Open a terminal window.  Click on Applications > Accessories > Terminal.

2.  First, we need to rename the Skype binary.  Enter the following in the terminal and enter your password when prompted:
     ```
sudo mv /usr/bin/skype /usr/bin/skype.real
```3.  Now we must create a small script file.  Open gedit as root.  Enter the following command in the terminal and enter your password when prompted:
     ```
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/skype
```4.  Now paste these lines into gedit:
```
#!/bin/bash
LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libv4l/v4l1compat.so XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1 skype.real
```5.  Make the script executable.  Enter the following in the terminal:
     ```
sudo chmod 755 /usr/bin/skype

```6.  Save and close gedit.

Now when you open Skype, you can test it in the Options > Video Devices section.

This has ALWAYS worked for me.

---

### Post by kiddykoff on 2011-03-19
that didn't seem to work for me. Sorry for the delayed response. Since i'm on the go all the time, i don't always have the camera with me.

---

### Post by towheedm on 2011-03-21
> **kiddykoff said:**
> that didn't seem to work for me. Sorry for the delayed response. Since i'm on the go all the time, i don't always have the camera with me.

Could you say exactly what you did?
Does the Eyetoy work with cheese?  Does it work on the Playstation2?

---

### Post by Iguana1702 on 2011-04-07
it works for me too, but i can not use the microfone from the eyetoycam. Any ideas?

---

### Post by Iguana1702 on 2011-04-07
> **Iguana1702 said:**
> it works for me too, but i can not use the microfone from the eyetoycam. Any ideas?

The problem was that the wrong mic was choosen in the PULSE AUDIO server. I had to change it and after that its working just fine.

---

