---
title: "Alt Gr doesn't work"
date: 2009-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Moustaffa on 2009-11-29
Hello,

I have Ubuntu 9.10 installed (Dutch; Keyboard: Belgian Point). Sometimes it occurs that my Alt Gr key doesn't work. I have an AZERTY keyboard so if I want to type '@', I have to press Alt GR + 2. Sometimes Alt Gr doesn't work, so instead of getting '@', I would get 'é', as if the Alt Gr button wasn't pressed.
This applies to all the other characters requiring Alt Gr.

I also used to have this problem when I had Ubuntu 8.04. I can't figure out why this keeps happening, and when this happens.

Hope you guys can help

Greets

---

### Post by Moustaffa on 2009-12-13
anyone?

---

### Post by falconindy on 2009-12-13
You can use xev to find out what keycode is being generated by your Alt_Gr key, and if necessary, use xmodmap to remap it.

---

### Post by Moustaffa on 2009-12-27
> **falconindy said:**
> You can use xev to find out what keycode is being generated by your Alt_Gr key, and if necessary, use xmodmap to remap it.


Thank you for your reply, but I'm afraid I don't fully understand what I'm supposed to do (Ubuntu newbie)

Can you be more specific on how to use xev and xmodmap in case I need to?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by shimoda on 2010-02-06
I've the same problem!!

The strange thing is that only happens sometimes... :???:

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2010-02-06
hi
open a terminal and start xev, xev is a program wich open a small window on your desktop. activate this little window - klick.
then type any single "taste ?" stroke on your keyboard. in the window where you start xev you will see wich key code is coming from your stroke. nitice the code you are interesting in.
then run the command: xmodmap -pke > mymodmap.txt. the file mymodmap.txt is plain ascii. you can edit this file to your behavior. then you have to run: 
xmodmap mymodmap.txt
the new values are valid for the all session on all windows. 
i got a similar problem with my keyboard in solaris 10. i put the command in a shellscript wich i run in .bashrc.
ciao

---

### Post by rdieden on 2010-05-27
Hello,

Same problem here : I can't get the alt-gr triggered keys to work.  Using xev, as suggested, showed that _pushing the alt-gr key doesn't trigger anything_ ! 
Any idea ?

---

### Post by Baldorcete on 2010-06-16
Same here. xev returns this when presing ALT_GR:

first time after runing xev:

```
KeymapNotify event, serial 35, synthetic NO, window 0x0,
    keys:  4294967267 0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   
           0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   

```

subsecuent times.
```

KeymapNotify event, serial 35, synthetic NO, window 0x0,
    keys:  2   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   
           0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0 
```

As you can see, no keycode event, only keymapNotify.

while presing control:


```
KeyPress event, serial 35, synthetic NO, window 0x4c00001,
    root 0x105, subw 0x0, time 435961743, (-368,301), root:(306,357),
    state 0x10, keycode 37 (keysym 0xffe3, Control_L), same_screen YES,
    XLookupString gives 0 bytes: 
    XmbLookupString gives 0 bytes: 
    XFilterEvent returns: False

```

Also, this is what xmodmap shows:

```

shift       Shift_L (0x32),  Shift_R (0x3e)
lock        Caps_Lock (0x42)
control     Control_L (0x25),  Control_R (0x69)
mod1        Alt_L (0x40),  Meta_L (0xcd)
mod2        Num_Lock (0x4d)
mod3      
mod4        Super_L (0x85),  Super_R (0x86),  Super_L (0xce),  Hyper_L (0xcf)
mod5        ISO_Level3_Shift (0x5c),  Mode_switch (0xcb)


```

I will try to assign ALT_GR to the menu key or righ control, but is not the desired solution.

Any idea of what is happening? Thanks.

---

