---
title: "Messed up with desktop effects"
date: 2008-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pratikiitd on 2008-12-02
Hi
I am very new to ubuntu 8.10.
I installed the nvidia drivers and desktop effects were working fine. Then I was trying to install MAC OSX theme after which I was not able to get to the login screen on restarting...
I then run the recovery mode and run package checker and verified file system.
Then on going to appearance-> visual effects...when i am clicking on extra or normal effects its saying...desktop effects could not be enabled...
Donno why....searched forum but found nothing on it...
Plz help...
Thanx in advance

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-12-02
Not that easy to help if you don't provide any info :)

Run a couple of commands and post their outputs please, this will make it a lot easier.

First, let's look into your Xorg.log and search for Errors/Warnings. To do so, run:
```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep EE
```  for Errors and
```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep WW
```  to display Warnings.

Please post this output along with your xorg.conf, which you can read with:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and, to get your driver, run:
```
nvidia-settings -q all | grep -i driver
```

I'm sure you'll get apropriate help then.

---

### Post by pratikiitd on 2008-12-02
When I run cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep EE command I got this output:-
(WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(II) Loading extension MIT-SCREEN-SAVER
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)

When I run this command: cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep WW
I got the output:- (WW) warning, (EE) error, (NI) not implemented, (??) unknown.
(WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" does not exist.
(WW) NV(0): BAR1 is > 256 MB, which is probably wrong.  Clamping to 256 MB.

When I run:- cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Output was:- 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

And when i run the command:- nvidia-settings -q all | grep -i driver
Nothing was done...So, I think Nvidia driver is not found which was the error I got when i ran 1st command...although on Add/Remove Software the NVidia binary X.Org driver ('version 177' driver) is checked i.e. its installed...

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-12-02
What does it say in *System &#8594; Administration &#8594; Hardware Drivers*

---

### Post by pratikiitd on 2008-12-02
Well thanks alot...It worked for me...As when i run the recovery mode...it installed some different driver....thts what i can think of...
Anyways you guys rock...Thanx a lot...

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-12-02
YW.

Just, you say recovery-mode...

Possible that you ran that "magical"(as everyone hypes it) dpkg-reconfigure command? Cause, what you actually did then wasn't **RE**configuring but actually **DE**configuring your xorg.conf.

So, just fyi, not a good idea to run it, basically ships you back to where you began. So, mind it in the future :)

---

