---
title: "10.04 to 10.10"
date: 2013-09-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by whvw on 2013-09-21
I keep getting a "failed to fetch" message when I try to upgrade. How can I fix this?

---

### Post by santosh83 on 2013-09-21
> **whvw said:**
> I keep getting a "failed to fetch" message when I try to upgrade. How can I fix this?

If I'm not wrong, the repositories for 10.10 have been removed and a few of them (main, universe, multiverse & restricted of Canonical's alone) moved to another sub-domain (old-releases....) of the repositories servers. I think also that you can directly upgrade from one LTS (10.04) to the next one (12.04, Precise), but personally I prefer clean reinstalls.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-09-21
+1

It is possible to upgrade from one LTS release to the next one. And I have done it, from 8.04 to 10.04 to 12.04.

But there might be another issue. If the hardware is old, you might need a lighter desktop environment than standard Ubuntu, for example the flavours Lubuntu or Xubuntu.

In the end it might be easier to backup your personal files and re-install a new version and flavour of Ubuntu, as suggested by santosh83.

If you want more detailed advice, please specify your computer: Brand name and model, cpu, ram (size) and graphics card.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-09-21
If there is some reason you can't do a clean installation see the link . Backup your files either way. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades)

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-09-21
Don't upgrade to 10.10, which is unsupported. Jump straight to 12.04. Somewhere in software sources (update manager &#8594; settings &#8594; updates &#8594; notify of a new version of Ubuntu or something like that) you can select "never", "LTS version only" or "any version". Set to LTS version only and it should allow you to upgrade to 12.04.

Some people like upgrades, others prefer clean installs. I didn't have much problems upgrading one computer 6.06 &#8594; 8.04 &#8594; 10.04 &#8594; 12.04, but you may, especially if you haven't kept your 10.04 up=to-date or have installed a lot of less-standard software. We aware that the user interface changed drastically and befame a lot heavier on recources. You may prefer a lighter flavour.

---

