---
title: "Processor - wrong Mhz output..."
date: 2010-07-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pingu1 on 2010-07-13
Hi
I have just bought a compaq Presario CQ61-419 EO,
and this is supposed to have 2,1 Ghz processor.
I checked in BIOS, and this says 2,1 Ghz, but when I do lscpu I get 800 Mhz.

Sometimes when I do lscpu I get 800 Mhz, and other times it shows 2,1 Ghz.
This happened, I think, after I tried the CPU Frequency scaling monitor on my panel...
I can actually see that the CPU is not running at 2,1 Ghz because it's sometimes very slow...

Help please

---

### Post by cj.surrusco on 2010-07-13
The reason you are seeing a fluctuating speed is because Ubuntu will slow down and speed up the CPU governor. If you do not have frequency scaling on the panel enabled, then it is not actually changing, I believe. I'm not a 100% sure about that, but your Bios is definitely correct on the speed of your CPU.

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-07-13
Frequency scaling (sometimes called "dynamic frequency scaling" or  "cpu  throttling") is a technology that can allow your cpu frequency to be  adjusted to conserve power consumption or reduce the amount of heat  generated by your CPU (actually, the two are related).  Your CPU and BIOS have to be able to use frequency scaling and it has to be enabled in your BIOS.

It is particularly handy in laptops and mobile devices where battery  life is a concern.

If you have frequency scaling enabled, seeing your CPU frequency drop to  (in your case) 800 means that at that point in time the load on your  CPU cores is such that there is no need for the cores to be cranking  hard.

When the demand (thus, the "On Demand" setting) increases, the CPU  frequency will be increased incrementally to handle the load.

The fluctuation you see is exactly what you want to see.  Slow when there is little demand, high when there is demand.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-07-13
And besides automatically scaling your cpu speed based on load, if everything is working properly, cooling fans may automatically come on or speed up based on load (and heat generated by) automatic higher cpu speed (you don't need an applet for that unless you want to manually control it).

That also changes energy consumption.  I just got a new Dell Studio XPS 8100 with 3.2 GHz i5 cpu and nVidia GT220 graphics, and with it connected through a Kill A Watt meter, it may use only 50 watts when web browsing and its 4 cpu's are idling at 1200 MHz, but rarely it may bump up to 100 watts when it is busier.  It actually has 2 cpu's with hyperthreading, but that shows as 4 cpu's in Win7 or Linux.

My older Athlon64 3200+ desktop with single core 2 GHz processor idles at 800 MHz.

---

### Post by pingu1 on 2010-07-15
Ok. That's nice. Sorry about the late answer, as I don't have internet at home...
Thanks guys. Happy that it's nothing wrong... my lscpu now sometimes gives 800 and other times 2100 (like you guys said it would)....

Thanks again...

---

