---
title: "Xubuntu 8.04 Resolution Problems"
date: 2008-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Celt23 on 2008-08-19
Hello,

I've had Xubuntu 8.04 Hardy installed on this computer for a few weeks and I've been having some resolution problems that I just can't seem to find a fix for.

The "default" resolution seems to be a very high resolution (as in, the objects are smaller), but there's about an inch of black area on the right edge of the screen. When I change the resolution to the monitor's most compatible one (1024x768@60), it's never predictable what will happen. It will either change correctly, or it will change to a 1024x768 with a very small, barely legible font, or the entire screen will go black and I'll have to reboot. On rare occasions, the screen will start sliding extremely fast like a roll of film. When I DO get it to change resolutions correctly, it doesn't stay the same when I reboot. It will either do one of the things I described previously, or go to the Default resolution or change to 800x600. Also, the boot splash screen does not work at all so I took "quiet splash" from the /boot/grub/menu.lst file.

I'm guessing the solution lies in making changes to my xorg.conf file. I'm not sure exactly what to do with it and I'm afraid I'll cause even more problems by editing it. Here's my xorg.conf:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

```

Here's some of the hardware:

Computer model: Gateway E-2000
Monitor: KDS X-Flat (model XF-7b) 17"
Graphics card: Intel 82845g Graphics Controller (64mb onboard)
Processor: Intel Celeron (2.0 GHz)

It would be great if someone could tell me what to do so that the resolution is 1024x768@60 every time I log on, it would be great to have a predictable resolution.

Thanks for your time. ^_^

---

### Post by fbkarsdorp on 2008-08-19
Hi, 

I think the main problem is that your xorg.conf isn't adjusted to your system at all, but simply showing a default configuration (at least for your screen settings). You can either try to make a new xorg.conf by entering the following line in the console:

[FONT="Courier New"]sudo Xorg -configure[/FONT]

Then run the new file and check ik there are any errors. 

Perhaps a better solution is to set your screen settings via running [FONT="Courier New"]displayconfig-gtk[/FONT], where you can find the appropriate screen and videodriver.

Hope this will help.

btw, I read your post ones more and it seems that your having the same problem I had some time ago. I tried several videodrivers, but only the generic vesa was working properly. Also, if launching the displayconfig doesn't work, write some random (I know, its a bit of a dirty way) lines under the section screen in your xorg.conf. After you logout you will be prompted with the displayconfig programme.

---

### Post by Celt23 on 2008-08-20
Thanks for the detailed post! I tried displayconfig-gtk and it works much better than the XFCE display manager. If I run into any more problems I'll try the other things you posted.

---

