---
title: "(16.04) My bootup process is extremely messed up"
date: 2017-08-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mistcloud-misty on 2017-08-27
Now first of all: it does, eventually, boot. It gets to login. It logins. Then I enjoy the 10 minute wait to get a single program open. But on to the booting process.

I used to get that nice purple screen in which it shows the loading dots lighting up so I at least knew something was happening and it wasn't frozen. Once I hit enter to boot from Ubuntu instead of, say, the windows half, I get a purple screen with nothing happening for several minutes. Eventually it flickers back, then back to purple, for another few minutes. Then it gets darker, most likely when the brightness settings kick in. It goes to black after and then, maybe 5 minutes later, my cursor appears, and sometime after, the login screen appears which lets me login after another minute of waiting. Desktop takes several minutes to load and opening programs for the first time takes 10 minutes despite having plenty of memory and the processor hardly being used. 

I am using kernel 4.4.0-92 but this has been occurring across many kernels. Not sure what's going on. According to system-d I have some things taking 10-20 seconds to initialize, like network manager and apt-daily.service but nothing going into the minutes. Is my system hanging during the boot process and then recovering?

---

### Post by VMC on 2017-08-27
When did this first start happening?
Does your fstab swap uuid line up with actual uuid?

---

### Post by mistcloud-misty on 2017-08-27
This has been occurring for at least a couple months but it's been continuing to get slower. Hard drive looks okay from the smart test, no failures. I'm not really sure how to find if they line up. I see the swap partition on the harddrive is listed as okay.

I am using a proprietary driver for an Nvidia graphics card - there was an update to awhile ago that caused some graphical problems and if I think about it, might have been around the same time I noticed the long boot times.

---

