---
title: "10.04"
date: 2012-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Wellis on 2012-05-09
Upgraded Advent computer from 9.10 to 10.04 LTS, and now cannot access the web.Please help as I am lost.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-05-09
Please give a lot more description in your thread title of what your problem is. You will get more help consequently. ;)

Please open a terminal (Accessories>Terminal) and paste the following into it and post the result:

```
sudo lshw -C network
```Are you using wireless or ethernet cable? If wireless also post the result of:

```
iwconfig
```You cannot access the network (the router/access point and other machine on the network) or you can not access the web (web browse in Firefox)? Try to include as much info as you can think of to describe you problem when posting a new thread. It will help us help you. Many will move on when they see '10.04' as a thread title. Cheers ...

---

### Post by Wellis on 2012-05-10
Have tried your suggestion of using Terminal but cannot remember password to enter sudo. The computer icon for the wireless connection shows it to be excellent. However when trying to access a web address such  as Firefox the message is "this web page is not available"  This happens most of the time but very occasionally  it works. The computer was fine on 9.10 but wanted to keep up to date and as updating to 10.04 on another computer worked with no problems I went ahead and now wish I hadn`t

---

### Post by lisati on 2012-05-10
> **Wellis said:**
> Have tried your suggestion of using Terminal but cannot remember password to enter sudo. 

The password for "sudo" is the same as that for the admin account on your computer.

---

### Post by Wellis on 2012-05-10
Have tried all I used when installing Ubuntu but no go!

---

### Post by r-mo on 2012-05-10
Are you the only user on the system? Or was yours the first account created? If so, you are the admin account, it is your password, the same one you use to log in that is required for sudo.

---

### Post by Wellis on 2012-05-10
Excuse an 85 year old but eventually mastered the Terminal. After a problem installing a printer I now have a print out of the info which is a lot so what particular bits do you need? To answer your previous questions The computer connects to the router but when connecting to Firefox for example I receive the message "This web page is not available" Thanks.

---

### Post by Wellis on 2012-05-10
Thanks, am learning all the time.

---

