---
title: "12.04 sees wireless network, but cant connect to the net"
date: 2012-09-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mejbr2003 on 2012-09-20
Netgear remotely reset my netgear wireless router after my failed attempt to set up a static ip. They got it going again and a mac laptop was able to connect to the network and the internet.
But my wireless desktop, running 12.04 can not connect to the internet. it sees the wireless network, but no internet.

I've tried editing the wireless connection to match the router status...but no luck.
I really don't know what I'm doing.
please help.
I've run out of things I know how to do, which haven't worked anyway.

---

### Post by Tobeus on 2012-09-20
First, you are a brave soul for taking this on with such little knowledge, so I wish you the best of luck with this and all the other puzzles sure to come.

Second, we need way more information in order to help out.  You mentioned netgear resetting your router when you had failed to configure a static ip.  We need to know what you meant here.  Did your internet provider give you a static ip?  Or were you trying to set up a computer with a static ip on the network?

Who is your internet provider?  If your ISP (internet service provider) is giving a static IP, is your router configured to forward the ip to a machine (such as the mac book), or is it actually routing? 

Basically, in order for everything to work, you usually have to get two sides of the router to function, the ISP side (usually called the WAN side) and the local network side (usually called the LAN side).  Your ISP will normally tell you whether you have a static ip address or dhcp (which is auto-addressing).  Your settings in your wireless router should have a page for configuring the WAN or ISP settings.  Most home internet connections are through dhcp, and most wireless routers are set up to use that out of the box.

On the local side of the network, there are some things you need to know as well.  Is the router giving out IP addresses or do you have to set one up manually?  If your router is giving out addresses, then you just have to get the wireless to connect and that should be it.  If it is a static assignment, you will need to check the mac or look at the router's configuration in order to tell what to punch into the Ubuntu connection.

If it works on the mac, but not your Ubuntu box, you may have messed something up in the network profile configuration as well.  When netgear reset your router remotely and reconfigured it to work with the mac, did they give you a password to use?  If so, you might just need to remove the faulty configuration and re-connect with your Ubuntu wireless.

To do that:  click on your network connection in the upper right of your screen (one of those small icons) and a pull-down menu should appear.  If you are not sure which icon it is, look for the pulldown menu that has "edit connections" in it.  Select "edit connections" and choose the wireless tab.  Look for your wireless connection in this list.  Select it, and click on Delete to remove the profile.  Now close the Network connections window.

Now click on your network connection icon again in the upper right and then click on the item that has a checkmark next to it called Enable Networking.  This will disable your network.  Give it a moment to disable, then click up there again and re-enable it by clicking the same option.  Once your networking comes back up, click one more time on that icon and make sure wireless is enabled (check should also be next to "Enable Wireless").  If both are enabled, within about 30 seconds to a minute you should see your wireless network appear in the list of networks.  Click on it and it will try to connect.  It should prompt you for a password.  Enter the one netgear gave you.

If netgear did not give you a password (do you remember typing one in for the mac?) then your network may be open access, which should then just connect.

If you are still unable to connect, you may have a driver problem.  If you can haul your desktop over to a friend's house and see if you can connect to their wifi it should help you determine if you have a driver problem or a configuration problem with your network.  Don't forget to check the simple things first though.  For example, make sure you have your antenna(s) screwed in tightly if it is a wifi card.  Also, if it is a card, try re-seating the card in its slot if you are comfortable doing that.  If the desktop doesn't use an antenna, or isn't using a card, then obviously you can't do those, but they are easily overlooked by even the most experienced techs.

If you can connect to the wireless now, but still have no internet, then open a terminal window (press Ctrl+Alt+T) and type ifconfig.  After pressing enter it should give you two or three connections.  Usually they are called wlan0, eth0 and lo.  The one we want to look at is wlan0 (or something similar).  There should be a value after it called inet addr and will have an address there like 192.168.1.101 or something similar.  If you can connect to the wireless but have no internet, let us know what that address is.  It can tell us whether you are getting an IP from the router or not.

Lastly, Google is your friend.  There is a lot to learn in order to configure a network, but don't let it scare you.  If you are running ubuntu, I'm hoping you are ready to learn, because there is a LOT to learn. Just keep on googling questions and little by little you can piece together the answers.

Hope to hear back soon!

-Tobeus.

---

