---
title: "10.10 slow"
date: 2010-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by robertlankford on 2010-10-14
I've been using Ubuntu since 2007. I've had the same hardware for a couple of years.  It's quad-core with 4GB of ram and a nice video card.  A nice little shuttle setup.

Anyway, I was persuaded to jump from 10.04 to 10.10 by all the positive remarks that folks were making.  I actually decided to wipe my home partition this time too so that I could go from ext3 to ext4 on it.

Installation took at least a couple of hours (installs, normally, go much quicker than this). Performance after installation is dismal.  It works fine as long as nothing is touching the hard disk.  For instance, I can watch a video hosted on a NAS, or move windows around with compiz without issue.  But anytime some process has to write to disk, the system comes to its knees.

For instance, things that should take seconds can take minutes.  Open a command prompt and prepare to wait awhile after the window shows itself before the blinking cursor appears ready for input.  Going to add/remove software causes much longer than normal waits for the installation of various packages.  Both the download and the installation are seemingly retarded.

I've downloaded large files (1+ GB).  Watching the network graph on the system monitor shows frequent dead spots where the network traffic just drops to zero for a minute or more.  Other machines on the same router aren't affected.  All the while, various running apps drop in and out of gray-scale mode frequently.

One thing that I've noticed is that whenever the system slows down, the hard drive usage indicator flickers at a steady rate.  I've never noticed it behaving this way before.  It usually remains solidly on longer during normal operation.  I've booted of a stick and run hard disk tests (both quick and long) to only find out that my hard drive is as healthy and problem-free as can be.

The list kind of goes on and on.  I really like the cosmetic changes they've made in 10.10, but I can't use this system.  I was hopeful when I saw there were some updates available.  I figured that my problem couldn't pertain only to me and that appropriate eyeballs had already spotted it.  But running the update (took an hour ... usually a minute) didn't help.  I found another thread on here where someone suggested upgrading to the latest non-stable kernel.  I followed the instructions there but was taken, presumably to tty1 instead of the gui upon reboot.  I now use grub to choose the older kernel so that I can get to the gnome shell.

I'm at my wits end and can't afford to wait much longer.  I'm afraid that I'll have to revert back to 10.04 this afternoon when I get home.  This is, literally, the first major trouble I've had since ditching windows in 2007.

Anyone else out there know about this?  Anyone have any ideas on a fix (what it is or when it might be available)??

---

### Post by robertlankford on 2010-10-14
Well, I installed 10.04 64-bit back again.  Everything is fast and wonderful again.  Oh well.  Whatever the issue, I sure hope that it's fixed by the time 12.04 comes out!

---

### Post by WorLord on 2010-10-14
> **robertlankford said:**
> Well, I installed 10.04 64-bit back again.  Everything is fast and wonderful again.  Oh well.  Whatever the issue, I sure hope that it's fixed by the time 12.04 comes out!

It is ext4, or, rather, Ubuntu's default handling of it.  

Edit your /etc/fstab and turn off the write barrier (add barrier=0 to the list of mount options), as the developer of this features readily admits that it isn't yet performant.

Once you do that, speed will be right back to where it was before, perhaps better.  I have to do this every time.

**Edit**

Though I'm sure its not the only one, this thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1313834](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1313834)) has more information.  Using databases is also how I discovered the HUGE speed disparity with ext4 from ext3, and I can promise your system will be back to its old peppy tricks if you add this tweak.  

On my system, my /etc/fstab entry looked like this:

```
UUID=48998d56-4dee-45ed-a935-9c2964c4ffbf /               ext4    errors=remount-ro	0       1
```

and I changed it to look like this:

```
UUID=48998d56-4dee-45ed-a935-9c2964c4ffbf /               ext4    errors=remount-ro,barrier=0	0       1
```

...and rebooted.  All fixed!

---

### Post by robertlankford on 2010-10-15
Thanks so much for the post.  I actually tried this.  By that, I mean that I reinstalled 10.10 (both 64 and 32 bit) and tried your suggestions about etc/fstab.  Unfortunately, that didn't help.  I then reinstalled 10.10 and used ext3 for both the root and home partitions.  No luck there either!  Whatever is wrong, it's something else, I'm afraid.

At the end of the day, I've installed 10.04 again and am just going to stay here for awhile.

Thanks again for your help.  I really do appreciate it.

---

### Post by Selaro on 2010-10-18
I was having the same problem, especially when I was running evolution mail. I downloaded Ailurus, selected system settings, memory and changed the swap memory to 0. this seemed to help my system.

---

