---
title: "updated to 10.04 - mounting problems ext drive and usb"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by omegar79 on 2010-04-30
Please help, I just updated to 10.04 from the previous version and I'm encountering two main problems:

First, on boot, after grub, I get the following message:

> "Disk drive for /hdba/sda6 is not ready yet or not present"
"Continue to wait, or press S to skip mounting or M for manual recovery"It won't go past that (I've waited 30 min) If I press S then I get tis other message but it skips after a few seconds:

> "Disk drive for /hdba/sda7 is not ready yet or not present"
"Continue to wait, or press S to skip mounting or M for manual recovery"If I press S then I have an ALMOST working system. You see: I have an external USB hard drive, shared between XP and Ubuntu with all my files in it, and it won't mount. It's a simpletech and it was working just before the update and it loads, mounts and unmounts perfectly on windows and on another laptop I've got running crunchbang!. I can see the disk in "Media" but says I have not enough permissions to see its contents.

My fstab file is as follows:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc                                       /proc           proc         defaults                                       0  0
# /dev/hdb6
UUID=c1b3295a-a5c1-4990-acda-2adf5625c62e  /               ext3         defaults,errors=remount-ro,relatime                     0  1
# /dev/hdb7
UUID=c708b529-ea5d-4d76-9dc7-6c204939f184  none            swap         sw                                             0  0
/dev/cdrom                                   /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660  user,noauto                                    0  0
/dev/                                      /media/floppy0  auto         rw,user,noauto                                 0  0
/dev/hdb6                                  /media/hdb6     ext3         defaults,relatime                                       0  0
/dev/hdb7                                  /media/hdb7     swap         defaults                                       0  0
# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda5   /media/sda5   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions
```Yes, those are Automatix lines of code; yes, I've been running the same box this long.

My lsusb is as follows:
```
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 046d:c040 Logitech, Inc. Corded Tilt-Wheel Mouse
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 4971:ce04 SimpleTech 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
```I'm really stumped. Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by scradock on 2010-04-30
> **omegar79 said:**
> Please help, I just updated to 10.04 from the previous version and I'm encountering two main problems:

First, on boot, after grub, I get the following message:

It won't go past that (I've waited 30 min) If I press S then I get tis other message but it skips after a few seconds:

If I press S then I have an ALMOST working system. You see: I have an external USB hard drive, shared between XP and Ubuntu with all my files in it, and it won't mount. It's a simpletech and it was working just before the update and it loads, mounts and unmounts perfectly on windows and on another laptop I've got running crunchbang!. I can see the disk in "Media" but says I have not enough permissions to see its contents.

My fstab file is as follows:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc                                       /proc           proc         defaults                                       0  0
# /dev/hdb6
UUID=c1b3295a-a5c1-4990-acda-2adf5625c62e  /               ext3         defaults,errors=remount-ro,relatime                     0  1
# /dev/hdb7
UUID=c708b529-ea5d-4d76-9dc7-6c204939f184  none            swap         sw                                             0  0
/dev/cdrom                                   /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660  user,noauto                                    0  0
/dev/                                      /media/floppy0  auto         rw,user,noauto                                 0  0
/dev/hdb6                                  /media/hdb6     ext3         defaults,relatime                                       0  0
/dev/hdb7                                  /media/hdb7     swap         defaults                                       0  0
# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda5   /media/sda5   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions
```Yes, those are Automatix lines of code; yes, I've been running the same box this long.

My lsusb is as follows:
```
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 046d:c040 Logitech, Inc. Corded Tilt-Wheel Mouse
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 003: ID 4971:ce04 SimpleTech 
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
```I'm really stumped. Any help would be greatly appreciated.
Could I suggest unplugging the USB drive and making sure you can boot the new system? Then you could plug it in and investigate how you need to modify fstab (if at all) to get it to respond to "sudo mount -a" correctly.

Once you have that sorted out try re-booting with it plugged in.....

---

### Post by omegar79 on 2010-04-30
Been there, done that. These are two separate problems. sda6 is my ext file disc; my usb disk is not a system disc. Both problems persist through plugging and unplugging.

---

### Post by ram130 on 2010-05-01
I'm stumped too. I only have this desktop that my mom uses. It's gonna suck when she see this in the morning and have to press S. I only have one hard drive in this system and did an upgrade from karmic few hours ago. Here's my fstab:
> 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'vol_id --uuid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=8e7cae7b-970b-4f7e-8d8c-410f3613877d /               ext4    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
   sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

---

### Post by scradock on 2010-05-01
> **omegar79 said:**
> Been there, done that. These are two separate problems. sda6 is my ext file disc; my usb disk is not a system disc. Both problems persist through plugging and unplugging.
Well, looking at the fstab, you seem to be trying to mount /dev/hdb6 twice - that might be causing problems. Try commenting out the line "/dev/hdb6 /media/hdb6 ....", and see if the line with the UUID is mounted correctly.

Another possibility is that the Ubuntu partition got re-formatted or otherwise had its UUID changed during the upgrade. If you start up from a LiveCD you could run "sudo blkid" to check you have the correct UUID for each partition.

---

### Post by omegar79 on 2010-05-01
I made a mistake transcribing the problem.

It's:

> "Disk drive for **/media/hda6** is not ready yet or not present"
"Continue to wait, or press S to skip mounting or M for manual recovery" 			 		

Don't think the drives got repartitioned during upgrade, else I wouldn't have the exact same settings as before the upgrade. Everything is exactly the same, except for this two very annoying errors.

---

### Post by FishRCynic on 2010-05-01
in fstab

try adding 

,nobootwait 

to the affected drives in fstab

eg (this is an ntfs but the idea is the same)

LABEL=S3A1814D001 /media/S3A1814D001  ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8,nobootwait          0  0


also uninstall the usbmount package if installed previously - it interferes with lucids usb automounting

---

### Post by omegar79 on 2010-05-01
Ok, so here's the deal: Iv've managed to get rid of the S or M phase in the booting prcess eliminating the second booting order using scradocks suggestion, BUT it still haven't found a way to make my USB external disk mount automatically.

I can get it to mount but only through system-admin-disk utility, but still it wont mount automatically (which it used to do) and there's still the duplicate entry on Media that has its properties listed as "ilegible".

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Burfee on 2010-05-03
had the same problem with the USB mounting and FishRCynic's advice helped.
> /dev/usbfs /media/usb usbfs devgid=1001,devmode=664,nobootwait 0 0

---

### Post by Tshann on 2010-05-16
> **FishRCynic said:**
> in fstab

try adding 

,nobootwait 

to the affected drives in fstab

eg (this is an ntfs but the idea is the same)

LABEL=S3A1814D001 /media/S3A1814D001  ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8,nobootwait          0  0


also uninstall the usbmount package if installed previously - it interferes with lucids usb automounting
Hi,
  Yep, nobootwait worked for lubuntu 10.04. Thanks!

---

### Post by NormInNorman on 2010-05-28
This kind of stuff is really frustrating.  I keep my USB drive plugged in at work most of the time.  Last week (when my machine was running jaunty) I could boot up fine with the drive plugged in and never made any changes to fstab concerning that drive.  This week, after a clean install of Lucid, I cannot.  Then there was the problem I found a few days ago with tooltips not showing up correctly in firefox and/or eclipse.  Then there was a problem with pulseaudio screwing up Amarok when the system tried to play a sound while it was playing.  I mention things like this to my friends and they say "That's why I haven't switched from Windows yet".  No matter how much I say "But you can customize it and make it work exactly like you want so you can be more productive" it ends up sounding silly when basic stuff like sound and booting with a USB drive doesn't work correctly without fixing something.

OK, I'm done venting.  I really do love Ubuntu and realize an operating system has a ton of parts that have to work together and it isn't easy and I still wouldn't switch back to OSX or (God forbid) Windows.  It must be worth it.

---

### Post by NormInNorman on 2010-06-16
After a couple of weeks of not rebooting, I finally had to reboot and still get "The disk drive for /home is not ready yet" with my usb hard drive connected.  I would appreciate any help.  Here is some background:

[LIST]
[*]Dell precision t7400 computer
[*]500gb "FreeAgent" drive, 1 partition, ntfs, label is (now) "freeagent", located at /dev/sdb1
[*]The drive is mainly a backup drive for home but I bring it to work so I can listen to my mp3s. There is no guarantee that it will be hooked up to my work machine (the one with problems)
[*]Previously I ran Jaunty and never had to unplug the drive in order to boot. I never put anything about the drive in fstab, it was just always mounted when I logged in
[*]Decided to do a clean install of Lucid a couple of weeks ago (made backups and formatted the partitions and everything). Now if the drive is connected on boot I get the above error.
[*]I tried adding the drive to fstab so I could put the "nobootwait" option but got a mount error. Then when I pressed "S" to skip I got the same error as above.
[*]I renamed the label of the drive from "FreeAgent Drive" to "freeagent" just in case the space was a problem. It did the same thing.
[*]I tried putting "nobootwait" on /home. That was a bad idea and I don't recommend it.
[/LIST]

Here is my current fstab (with some stuff changed to protect the innocent):
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system>                            <mount point>              <type>   <options>               <dump>  <pass>
proc                                       /proc                      proc     nodev,noexec,nosuid     0      0  
/dev/sda5                                  /                          ext4     errors=remount-ro       0      1  
#/dev/sdb1                                  /media/freeagent           ntfs-3g  defaults,nobootwait     0      0
/dev/sda7                                  /home                      ext4     defaults                0      2  
# swap was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=7adb5e6f-a097-4090-858e-8385bbacc710  none                       swap     sw                      0      0  
//testserver/WWW                      /mnt/q                     smbfs    iocharset=utf8,credentials=/home/norm/.smbcredentials,uid=1000,nobootwait  0  0  
//prodserver/WWW                   /mnt/z                     smbfs    iocharset=utf8,credentials=/home/norm/.smbcredentials,uid=1000,nobootwait  0  0  

```
I commented out the line I added for the usb drive since it didn't fix the problem.

Anyone have any ideas? I've spent 3 or 4 hours on this so far and I'm getting a bit frustrated.

---

### Post by NormInNorman on 2010-07-01
OK, I finally fixed it thanks to [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466555").  Basically I changed everything from /dev/xxx to UUID=yyy and things work correctly now.

---

### Post by rykel on 2010-07-03
I am also severely affected by Lucid not automounting external drives and partitions without the help of PySDM (Storage Device Manager).

I remember that once upon a time, I just needed to plug my USB drive or double-click that Windows partition icon on the desktop and Ubuntu (NOT Lucid) would magically mount them all.

GONE are the days when Ubuntu works as common sense tells it to, it seems. This thread should not even exist in 2010!

Anybody please advise?

UPDATE

I solved my own problem!

Simply purge 3rd party drive managers (eg. Storage Device Manager), comment out all the NTFS lines in /etc/fstab, do a "sudo blkid", reboot, plug in the devices and let Ubuntu auto-detect/auto-setup the UUID of the devices. I hope this solves your problems too!

---

