---
title: "10.04 won't shutdown"
date: 2010-06-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MDCCCX on 2010-06-20
I cant shutdown without running sudo shutdown. When I try to use the default gnome shut down it takes me back to the logon screen. Fresh install today and I've had the same problem on other installs. Any clues?

---

### Post by archeryrob on 2010-06-20
having the same problem. It just idles on the Ubuntu screen and never stops. I ran the computer for 5 hours before I saw it. I am restarting right now and pulling power when I see the bios screen.

No solution yet. Running the 64 bit version here if it's any difference.

---

### Post by PartsMan on 2010-06-20
Mine does that if I over clock to much.
Every ap runs just fine but I can't shut down.
It goes to the log in screen instead.

---

### Post by MDCCCX on 2010-06-20
I realise I should have provided more details:
> 
username@username-desktop:~$ cat /etc/lsb-release
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=10.04
DISTRIB_CODENAME=lucid
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 10.04 LTS"
username@username-desktop:~$ uname -a
Linux username-desktop 2.6.32-22-generic #36-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jun 3 19:31:57 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux
I've had problems:

[LIST]
[*]Shutting down (only sudo shutdown -h 0 will work intermittent)
[*]Playing audio (only sudo aplay will work again intermittent)
[*]Mounting audio (only sudo will mount, or if I change my drive to master instead of slave, that seems to work again intermittent)
[/LIST]
It seems all to be rights based, however I'm running a stock install at the moment. My group file looks as follows:
> 
  GNU nano 2.2.2                         File: /etc/group                                                         

root:x:0:
daemon:x:1:
bin:x:2:
sys:x:3:
adm:x:4:username
tty:x:5:
disk:x:6:
lp:x:7:
mail:x:8:
news:x:9:
uucp:x:10:
man:x:12:
proxy:x:13:
kmem:x:15:
dialout:x:20:username
fax:x:21:
voice:x:22:
cdrom:x:24:username
floppy:x:25:
tape:x:26:
sudo:x:27:
audio:x:29:pulse
dip:x:30:
www-data:x:33:
backup:x:34:
operator:x:37:
list:x:38:
irc:x:39:
src:x:40:
gnats:x:41:
shadow:x:42:
utmp:x:43:
video:x:44:
sasl:x:45:
plugdev:x:46:username
staff:x:50:
games:x:60:
users:x:100:
I have had limited success by changing audio:x:29:pulse to audio:x:29:pulse,username

---

### Post by MDCCCX on 2010-06-21
Bump.

---

### Post by Batmannn on 2010-06-23
ubuntu stop shutting down and restarting correctly after I applied the desktop effects.  After I unapplied the effects, it would shutdown and restart like normal.  I'm new to linux, so I'm not sure if the effects had anything to do with it.

---

### Post by Calash on 2010-06-23
I am not seeing an entry for messagebus in there.  Can you give the output to the following

```

grep messagebus /etc/passwd

```

```

grep messagebus /etc/group

```

---

### Post by Robotnic on 2010-06-23
I posted a similar problem a few hours ago. Didn't notice the mounting issue or the audio until I read this but these are also broken for me. 

Wondering if some of the things I've noticed are the same for others-

Cannot utilise cpu frequency scaling applet (i.e cannot reduce the frequency). 

One "solution" I have found is to hard reset my PC. On the restart everything works fine, shuts down as normal...until I reboot again from a proper shut down. Obviously this is a stupid long-term solution but whatever the system does or doesn't do when Ubuntu is allowed to shut down properly seems to cause the bug.

Some other posts I have seen mention disabling open office quickstarter  as a possible solution. Not in my case but may work for some people  here.

---

### Post by javit on 2010-07-11
I'm completely new to linux and ubuntu. I also have exactly the same issues. Any ideas?

---

### Post by mike555 on 2010-07-11
In another post they got theirs working by reinstalling " initscripts ".

---

### Post by Robotnic on 2010-07-12
> **mike555 said:**
> In another post they got theirs working by reinstalling " initscripts ".


Hi mike555. You wouldn't be able to post a link to this thread would you? Cannot find it from a search. 

Thanks

---

### Post by mike555 on 2010-07-12
just start package manager and search for it , and check it for reinstall, it worked for me .........

---

### Post by alan_uk on 2010-07-12
On occasion (about 1 in 5) when opening up Ubuntu I am unable to activate sound and mount my second disc (Ext4). When I try to reboot or close down I am taken to a log on screen (I have automatic login). There is an option to shut down or restart in the bottom right hand corner but it doesn't work. I switch the PC off at the mains and usually everything works well (till the next time) Can't figure out where to start to resolve this but will try  reinstalling initscripts. What I found to be difficult to remedy is the intermittent nature of this problem.

Thanks

Alan

---

### Post by swalker23 on 2010-07-14
> **mike555 said:**
> In another post they got theirs working by reinstalling " initscripts ".

Didn't work for me.

I had this problem at Lucid launch and then after a few weeks of updates it would shutdown/restart properly.  After an update a few weeks ago it went back to doing it.

---

### Post by archeryrob on 2010-07-15
Anyone figured ts out? I is it possible to get an ISO disk for 9.04 and revert?

---

### Post by Bas232 on 2010-08-19
Same problem here, also happens with the LiveCD. However a few months ago it did work after a particular update.
But then after another update it was broken again.
I have a DKA790GX Platinum board and I think it has something to do with the BIOS or kernel as init 0 does show all signs to shutdown but doesn't power-off.

---

### Post by BenjaminKohl on 2010-10-13
I get this problem all the time.  I can always tell when I am going to have trouble shutting down because my system will have no sound and it won't allow me to mount other hard-drives.  These issues always happen together.  I've been trying to upgrade to 10.10 hoping that will fix it, but my wireless adapter (which works fine in Windows) always cuts out so I never finish the download.  This has also been an ongoing problem for me in Ubuntu 10.04 x64.  Very frustrating.  After many years, I am considering changing linux distros.

---

### Post by gugul on 2010-10-28
I had that problem too, couldn't shutdown.

I think it is related to OpenOffice quickstart (tray icon).

I disabled the quickstart option couple days ago and so far, I have been able to shutdown from the menu without problems.

---

### Post by archeryrob on 2010-10-28
Mine shutsdown now, must have been fixed by an update.

Now, sometimes, it will not load the GUI and goes to a terminal login and stays in terminal. It takes three times pulling the plug the rebooting to load the GUI. No idea why this is happening and it's really annoying when it happens!

---

