---
title: "10.10 laptop not hibernating"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lamb123 on 2010-10-11
Hey,

Ubuntu 10.10, clean install on my thinkpad T61 laptop. When I press hibernate, a login window shows up for a couple of seconds and then screen turns blank and i see a single ' _ ' blinking. At the same time computer still continues to work and i have to shut down using button.

Thanks.

---

### Post by vek on 2010-10-11
I am affected by this too, on a non-laptop.  SSD based hard-drive, if that helps.  I have plenty more swap in my swap drive than I have RAM installed.  The suspend and resume logs show nothing out of the ordinary that I can see :(

---

### Post by vek on 2010-10-12
Have you tried just waiting?  It turns out that it does work for me it just takes THREE MINUTES.

---

### Post by lamb123 on 2010-10-12
after 15 minutes i still had to manually shut down computer but when I turned comp on it did resume so I dunno whats the problem.

---

### Post by madmaze on 2010-10-14
have the same problem on a T61p and a w500..
Ive let my T61p go for 30min + and nothing happens just a the stupid blinking curser =/

---

### Post by zabsv on 2010-10-15
I'm experiencing the same problem on 2 systems, one upgraded from 10.04 and one with a fresh install of 10.10.
After some research I found that it seems to be a problem with kernels after 2.6.33 so on the upgraded system I've solved the problem simply by selecting kernel 2.6.32 from the boot menu.

On the newly installed 10.10 I hoped it would be as simple as downloading the .32 kernel package and installing it. Unfortunately this makes my computer stop at the ubuntu boot screen and X never starts. 
I'm guessing I have to install some other packages from 10.04, or compile a kernel image from source, in order to make it work but I haven't had the time to research it further.

If anyone have ideas on how to proceed all help is welcome.

---

### Post by zabsv on 2010-10-16
I've now downloaded the kernel source for 2.6.33 from [www.kernel.org]("http://www.kernel.org") and built it by "The old-fashioned debian way" described at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Kernel/Compile](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Kernel/Compile)
Hibernation works fine now.

---

### Post by metiosarius on 2010-10-20
Same issue here on an HP6823 with 3GB's RAM and almost 9GB of swap.

---

### Post by marl30 on 2010-10-21
I'm having this same issue as well. I doubt it's the new kernel, as I have Linux Mint 10 RC running in virtualBox and it uses the same kernel version as 10.10, yet it is hibernating without any issue.

---

### Post by zabsv on 2010-10-24
Ubuntu 10.10 also hibernates fine in a VirtualBox.
Since hibernation works on some systems and not on others I think we can  conclude that the problem is hardware related, and that the VirtualBox  "hardware" isn't affected.

---

### Post by DaveRNZ on 2010-12-02
Same prob on T61

---

### Post by madmaze on 2010-12-02
here is the bug, please confirm it.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/661711](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/661711)

---

