---
title: "9.04 - Can you copy &amp; paste a file onto your desktop?"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TedHead on 2009-04-27
I'm using v9.04 right now and I just realized I can't paste files onto my desktop.

Is anyone else having this problem?

Copy any file (Ctrl+C) Then try to paste it onto the desktop (Ctrl+V) = Nothing happens.

Copy any file (Ctrl+C) Then right click the desktop (The 'Paste' option is grayed out).

I know I have write access on the desktop because I can delete files, move files, create new files, save files, modify files all on the desktop. I JUST CAN'T PASTE ANYTHING ONTO IT???

Strange...

Although I can browse to my home folder/desktop/ and paste anything I want in there and it shows up on my desktop. But i can't paste anything onto the actual desktop.

Please help!

---

### Post by izizzle on 2009-04-27
If you're running Kubuntu then you have to paste inside the transparent field on your desktop labeled "Desktop Folder"

---

### Post by diilbert on 2009-04-27
> **izizzle said:**
> If you're running Kubuntu then you have to paste inside the transparent field on your desktop labeled "Desktop Folder"

The thread prefix says: [xubuntu]

If I am not mistaken it has to do with the thunar the desktop manager, since it does not display the desktop folder contents by default.

---

### Post by TedHead on 2009-04-27
Thanks for the reply izizzle. Although, I am using xubuntu.

My thread title has the [xubuntu] prefix but I suppose it would have been good for me to mention it also in the post :D

Well now it is absolutely clear. I'm using xubuntu v9.04. Can anybody help me? Or at least confirm whether the issue exists or not? It's important to know if it is just me or if everyone has this problem.

If you're using xubuntu v9.04, please try to paste a file directly onto your desktop and let me know if it works for you.

---

### Post by TedHead on 2009-04-27
> **diilbert said:**
> The thread prefix says: [xubuntu]

If I am not mistaken it has to do with the thunar the desktop manager, since it does not display the desktop folder contents by default.

I don't quite understand. Does this mean it is a known issue? Any way to fix it?

Everything in my desktop folder shows up on the desktop. I can create new files, modify files, and download files directly onto my desktop. Basically, everything is working 100% as it should except I can't paste files directly onto the desktop. I'm able to drag and drop files directly onto the desktop, but not paste files.

The only time I can paste files is if I open up my "desktop" folder in my home folder. Over there the paste command works.

---

### Post by diilbert on 2009-04-27
> **TedHead said:**
> I don't quite understand. Does this mean it is a known issue? Any way to fix it?

Everything in my desktop folder shows up on the desktop. I can create new files, modify files, and download files directly onto my desktop. Basically, everything is working 100% as it should except I can't paste files directly onto the desktop. I'm able to drag and drop files directly onto the desktop, but not paste files.

The only time I can paste files is if I open up my "desktop" folder in my home folder. Over there the paste command works.

I am not sure.. I was speaking of a similar issue I had with XFCE4 running on Debian, not Xubuntu in particular.

---

### Post by TedHead on 2009-04-28
Is anyone here using the latest version of xubuntu?

Please try pasting a file onto your desktop and let me know how it goes.

It's driving me crazy ;)

---

### Post by TedHead on 2009-04-30
Surely there must be somebody out there who uses the new version of xubuntu, eh?

Please help me out guys. Just try to paste a file on your desktop and let me know what happens. Thanks.

---

### Post by BlahMan_of.Doom on 2009-04-30
Doesn't work for me!

---

### Post by perrti-y02 on 2009-04-30
I can verify that this is the case. No idea why. You can drag things onto the desktop. So you obviously have the ability to create files there. It appears to be the pasteness of it.

I will have a fiddle and see if I can find anything.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2009-04-30
I'm on Ubuntu 9.04 (not Xubuntu), and I cannot drag anything onto my Desktop, nor see things that are there... unless I'm viewing them through nautilus or thunar. As a matter of fact, I have no mouse functionality at all on the Desktop. The cursor moves over it, but I can't right-click to get the mouse actions menu.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2009-04-30
I'm using Ubuntu 9.04 and I have no problems with my Desktop.

---

### Post by ricardisimo on 2009-04-30
Has anyone filed a bug report yet?

---

### Post by kanikilu on 2009-04-30
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1039167](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1039167)

I upgraded to XFCE 4.6.1 with the PPA and the behavior is the same, although apparently pasting to the desktop (directly, via Thunar it works fine) is an "unimplemented feature", not a bug.

[http://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3804](http://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=3804)

---

### Post by pieguy on 2009-05-01
I feel they have sacrificed stablity for a little speed with 9.04, there are a lot of things broken.  9.04 is appears to be a regression not an upgrade.

---

### Post by TedHead on 2009-05-01
Thanks to all who replied!! :)

So apparently I'm not the only one who can't paste files onto the desktop.

Another thing I noticed is that thumbnails for video and image files do not show up on the desktop. I only get the default icon. However, when browsing in thunar I can see the thumbnails.

So on the desktop, there is no pasting files, and no thumbnail previews for images and video files :(

So the question now is... Any way to correct these issues?

---

