---
title: "9.04 boots to blank screen sometimes, fine other times"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by a_sad_snowman on 2009-05-05
I am hoping somebody can give me a hand with this, I thought I read about something similar to this before, but now I can't find it, so any help is very much appreciated.

I did a fresh install of 9.04 just a couple of weeks ago. It installed fine, I was using the new ext4, and life was good. I was able to boot in, connect to the internet, install updates, a few programs, and even reboot. At the end of the day I shut it down, went to bed.

The very next day I tried turning on my computer. grub loads, starts booting ubuntu, the splash screen even comes up and the bar loads all the way, then goes black, and stays that way. I shut it down manually and started it up again. Same thing. So I reloaded, this time with ext3. Same as before. Seems to work, but the next day I got the same black screen.

So again I reloaded, this time back to ext4, and forgot about it for a week or so. I went to look at it again today, and it booted up fine. So I did a little bit of testing. I shut it down, and booted it up again. Black screen. Turned it off manually, started it again. Booted fine. Hmm. I did try switching to another terminal with ctrl-alt-Fkeys, but nothing still came up. I'm using an HP Pavilion a305w, with integrated graphics. Any help?

---

### Post by tgblizz on 2009-05-11
I have the exact same issue (Ubuntu 9.04 - screen goes black, sometimes).  Once this happens it takes about 2 more reboots to get it up.  Everything is perfectly fine once it is up.
 
Note that I am on a dual-boot system (XP was installed first).
 
I also occassionally get a Grub error 15 or error 21 when the computer first turns on.
 
I've reinstalled Ubuntu but this hasn't fixed either problem.
 
I have a 5 year old E-machine PC with a ATI Radeon card.  Note my processor is AMD on the PC.
 
Other than these issues, I like Ubuntu quite a bit - my wife is even getting into it once she discovered the speed improvement.  I'd hate to get rid of it because it is "unstable".

---

### Post by dotaloc on 2009-05-23
i just had this same, or a similar, problem and this page helped me fix my problem:

[http://k3mist.com/linux/ubuntu-jaunty-ati-restricted-proprietary-fglrx-driver-direct-rendering-mobility-radeon-hd-series/](http://k3mist.com/linux/ubuntu-jaunty-ati-restricted-proprietary-fglrx-driver-direct-rendering-mobility-radeon-hd-series/)

i had upgraded from 8.10 to 9.04 and couldn't get X to load (pardon my terminology, i may be incorrect).

in summary, i had to boot to recovery mode, remove my old ATI drivers, then reboot.  i didn't follow the rest of the instructions from that link.

good luck!

---

### Post by sreenathum on 2009-10-08
same issue iam also facing 
please if any one can send what can be done that will be great 
my versions are Ubuntu 9.04 jaunty

Thanks

---

