---
title: "12.10 Context menu icons"
date: 2013-02-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jspeterson on 2013-02-19
Hello, I am completely new to Ubuntu. The first hurdle I've run into is that I cannot find out how to turn on icons in my context menu. This makes some of my Firefox addons difficult to use. I found [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1246454](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1246454) while searching and it mentions that there is an option to turn them back on in the System settings but the information in that post seems to be out of date for 12.10.  Unless I'm misunderstanding something System > Preferences > Appearance does not exist and System > Appearance doesn't have what I'm looking for.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-02-19
yes dont follow outdated post/howto/...
every new release is built differently; so why not using the default config ?

some changes can be made using gnome-tweak-tool

---

### Post by mcduck on 2013-02-19
The option is hidden in current Gnome versions, but can still be changed through gsettings/dconf-editor.

You can run this command to enable menu icons:
```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface menus-have-icons true
```
...and this to hide them again:
```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface menus-have-icons false
```
Alternatively you can install [dconf-tools]("apt:dconf-tools"), and then use *dconf-editor* to toggle this (and many other) settings.

edit: You'll have to restart Firefox after changing the setting before you see any changes, but most other programs should respect the change immediately.

---

### Post by jspeterson on 2013-02-19
> **dino99 said:**
> every new release is built differently; so why not using the default config ?

Some of my Firefox addons use the icons as a part of their interface and are hard to use without them.

mcduck's fix worked, thanks!

And sorry for not putting this in the Absolute Beginners Section, somehow I overlooked it even though it's the first forum listed...

---

