---
title: "8.10 , problem with nxclient and qtnx"
date: 2008-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sles on 2008-11-05
Hello!

I have CentOS server with FreeNX on it.
All was OK before uprgade to 8.10 from 8.04 on desktop ;-)
Now I can't use arrows in NX session- in nxclient or qt nx- no differnce-
down arrow doesn't work, down arrow calls screenshot in NX server session.
Just because all was OK in 8.04 I guess something is wrong in 8.10.
How can I solve this problem?

---

### Post by eric.quinton on 2008-11-15
I've the same problem. I downgraded my pc to Ubuntu 8.04 (nxserver is my unique professional workspace) :-(

Other problem with the last 8.04 : if I run nxclient one time, it's ok. If I must restart nxclient, It stops during the X session initialization. I must reboot my computer. This problem don't exist with an older version upgraded to 8.04.

---

### Post by Lyca0n on 2009-12-01
Hi [sles]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=133822") and [eric.quinton]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=707907"),

I found the solution of the problem by changing the keycode from DECIMAL to HEXADECIMAL (?!?!?).

Exemple, I am using NX Client (nomachine) to connect from a Ubuntu linux to a SUSE linux, and on the SUSE linux the keycode for the "up", "down", "left" and "right" key are the following :

keycode 0x6F =  Up
keycode 0x74 =  Down
keycode 0x71 =  Left
keycode 0x72 =  Right

While if someone use "xmodmap -pke" under Ubuntu, he will get the following :

keycode 111 =  Up
keycode 116 =  Down
keycode 113 =  Left
keycode 114 =  Right

This is the reason why it is reported that the "Up" key produce a print of the screen when going from a Linux to some Linux via a NX client. (Then 111 seems to be the keycode of the "Print" key.)

I hope this *might* be usefull if one day someone report this problem OR found this web page via google (like me when I wanted to find a solution for this problem).

regards,

Steve

---

### Post by sles on 2009-12-29
Hello!

Sorry, I don't understand- where and how you changed codes? 
Thank you!

---

