---
title: "new  12.04 LTS install: No working virtual consoles"
date: 2013-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jtwdyp on 2013-01-28
My daughter has had so much trouble with Win7 on the Toshiba Satellite laptop her mother gave her that she, said I could put Linux on it...  I've only got a couple of days to set it all up for her. (She is only semi-computer literate) She wanted a simple point N' click user environment. I decided that Xubuntu was as good a fit as any, so I downloaded the LTS x386  alternate install iso... Shrunk her windows partition to only a couple gig over the contents, and installed Xubuntu in the resulting free space. 

The install itself went smoothly enough {once I used the nomodeset kernel option...}
Xubuntu itself is working. well enough. But since I'm going to have to do her admin tasks I wanted to be able to log into a virtual console with:
 <ctrl>+<alt>+<Fkey>... 
I've tried <ctrl>+<alt>+<F1>, <ctrl>+<alt>+<F2>, <ctrl>+<alt>+<F3>, <ctrl>+<alt>+<F4>, <ctrl>+<alt>+<F5>, & <ctrl>+<alt>+<F6> But all of them only lead to a blank screen.
<alt>+<F7> does at least return me to the gui desktop.

Does anybody know what I need to do to get tty1 through tty6 working as functional virtual consoles???

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-01-29
It works fine on my machine: a black screen with a login prompt at the top. Unless of course there's a problem with the graphics causing the prompt to be off screen. Not very likely as the consoles bypass the entire graphics system.

But for admin tasks you probably won't need the virtual consoles. Running a terminal in the GUI is typically more convenient.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-01-29
Maybe take a look at your console-setup.  Other than that I really don't know, tty problems are infrequent and not finding much.

[http://www.kubuntuforums.net/showthread.php?47484-How-are-VT-s-%28TTY-s%29-spawned-%28and-what-package-provides-them%29&](http://www.kubuntuforums.net/showthread.php?47484-How-are-VT-s-%28TTY-s%29-spawned-%28and-what-package-provides-them%29&)

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-01-29
I had this happen on an nvidia based machine and I thought I "fixed" it by removing (commenting out) the nvidia framebuffer device from /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffers

However I've since reverted that change - and my VTs are currently working so I don't know if that was a "real" fix or not

It *might* also be worth checking whether your grub GFX_MODE is a supported resolution (using vbeinfo from the grub> prompt)

---

### Post by jtwdyp on 2013-01-29
[COLOR="Blue"]It would appear that on Jan 29, Impavidus did say:[/COLOR]

[COLOR="Blue"]> It works fine on my machine: a black screen with a login prompt at the top. Unless
> of course there's a problem with the graphics causing the prompt to be off screen.[/COLOR]

Well there does seem to be some kind of "problem with the graphics" But it's not that the
prompt itself is merely "off screen" Else hitting enter 50 times would eventually have
moved the current login prompt down into the visible screen area...
And the screen is more dark gray than black. It looks like a console that went blank
due to inactivity except it doesn't wake up when I type something.

[COLOR="Blue"]> Not very likely as the consoles bypass the entire graphics system.[/COLOR]

I too thought it unlikely. I've been using Linux for years. I currently multi-boot
multiple distros on 4 computers, And that doesn't count the now defunct PC's that I used
to use... And NONE of them ever failed to give me a console screen. Though I do remember that
sometimes the consoles were unstable with KMS, But even then I could at least log in to a
console blindly, and type a command such as "sudo poweroff"... (If I was real careful to type it all correctly that is... ;) )
In this case however nothing works until I use <alt>+<F7> or <ctrl>+<alt>+<F7> to return to the
xfce session...  Or more accurately, almost nothing. Empirical testing says That <ctrl>+<alt>+<del> from one of these non-functional consoles does trigger a reboot...


[COLOR="Blue"]> But for admin tasks you probably won't need the virtual consoles. Running a terminal
> in the GUI is typically more convenient.[/COLOR]

If I must I can work with it. But I've used Linux long enough with enough distros that I've
occasionally seen an system upgrade break something X depended on... So I'm very uncomfortable
doing an "apt-get upgrade" anyplace except from a {non-gui} virtual console.

I don't know why I had to use the nomodeset option to install Xubuntu. But I'm wondering if
there might be a connection to needing to boot with nomodeset which prevents the high
resolution stuff from kicking in until x starts, and having messed up virtual consoles.
Perhaps I need additional kernel options to define the virtual consoles to be a lower
resolution or something??? Except that It's been a long time since I've seen any tty resolution
and font settings set by any grub kernel arguments remain in effect through the entire
boot process, So I'm thinking there must be some internal configuration somewhere???
[COLOR="Plum"]
-- 
JtWdyP[/COLOR]

---

### Post by jtwdyp on 2013-01-29
> **ibjsb4 said:**
> Maybe take a look at your console-setup.  Other than that I really don't know, tty problems are infrequent and not finding much.]

Can't find any problem there. And unlike the guy in the linked thread, issuing the command service tty(n) start just says it's already running...

---

### Post by jtwdyp on 2013-01-29
> **steeldriver said:**
> I had this happen on an nvidia based machine and I thought I "fixed" it by removing (commenting out) the nvidia framebuffer device from /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-framebuffers

However I've since reverted that change - and my VTs are currently working so I don't know if that was a "real" fix or not

It *might* also be worth checking whether your grub GFX_MODE is a supported resolution (using vbeinfo from the grub> prompt)

I don't know what video card is built in to the laptop my exwife bought... Never saw any documentation. The bios screen don't list it. And I forget how to extract that info from linux... All I can say is the laptop is a toshiba with an amd E-240 processor, and a windows 7 sticker on it.

The vbeinfo command lists more modes than fits on the screen... but the preferred mode is listed as 1366x768, which listing must have scrolled out of sight, so I don't know what 0x### value would be implied... But I tried setting that mode via: "GRUB_GFXMODE=1366x768" in /etc/default/grub
And ran update-grub. But it had no affect on the tty(s) Only on the size of the text in the grub menu...


????

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-01-29
Hmm... well I must admit I am confused by all the GRUB_GFX stuff and 1.99 versus 2.00 etc. so I may be leading you astray here - however you might try adding 'GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD=keep' after the GRUB_GFXMODE line e.g. mine is

```
# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE=1440x900
GRUB_GFXMODE=1680x1050
**GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD=keep**
```(it's a 16x10 laptop screen) - I *think* that tells the kernel to use the same mode for VTs as for the grub screen - but as a I said, I find it all confusing

---

### Post by jtwdyp on 2013-01-29
> **steeldriver said:**
> Hmm... well I must admit I am confused by all the GRUB_GFX stuff and 1.99 versus 2.00 etc. so I may be leading you astray here - however you might try adding 'GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD=keep' after the GRUB_GFXMODE line e.g. mine is

```
# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE=1440x900
GRUB_GFXMODE=1680x1050
**GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD=keep**
```(it's a 16x10 laptop screen) - I *think* that tells the kernel to use the same mode for VTs as for the grub screen - but as a I said, I find it all confusing

Yeah, I just did a quick web search and that seems to be what it's supposed to do alright. But it didn't seam to solve the problem...

I stand corrected on one thing though, the first time I tested logging in blind I musta goofed. Because I set a root passwd, then used one of the tty's to blindly login as root then typed poweroff and hit enter. It powered off... So input works on the ttys, it just screen output that's screwed...

Gawd how I miss being able to just use "vga=NORMAL"

I wonder if it could be a framebuffer problem... Do you happen to know how to disable framebuffer on the consoles?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-01-29
jtwdyp;

framebuufer:

XXXX
Note: Some video chipsets have buggy VGA BIOS implementations; they may render text consoles incorrectly, especially when connected to flat-screen displays (including laptop LCDs). Depending on your localization, you may be able to work around this at the LiveCD boot prompt by typing "live debian-installer/framebuffer=false". 
--------------------
Maybe no longer true ?(as noted abaove)
If framebuffer causes a problem on your system you can disable the feature using the parameter vga=normal fb=false.
------------
The parameter vga=788 will activate the VESA framebuffer with a resolution of 800x600. This will probably work, but may not be the optimal resolution for your system. A list of supported resolutions can be obtained by using vga=ask, but you should be aware that list may not be complete. 
---------------

[INDENT][INDENT]just some more things to think on
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by jtwdyp on 2013-01-29
> **Bashing-om said:**
> jtwdyp;

framebuufer:

XXXX
Note: Some video chipsets have buggy VGA BIOS implementations; they may render text consoles incorrectly, especially when connected to flat-screen displays (including laptop LCDs).

_**Now that**_ sounds like my problem...

>  Depending on your localization, you may be able to work around this at the LiveCD boot prompt by typing "live debian-installer/framebuffer=false". I'm trying to debug a full install from the alternate install cd... 
> --------------------
If framebuffer causes a problem on your system you can disable the feature using the parameter vga=normal fb=false. 

Since I zapped the quiet and splash parameters, I can see that that works right up untill the screen goes gray just before the display monitor gives me a login prompt... At that point all the tty(s) are also grayed out. And no text is displayed on them anymore...  I also tried the  vga=788 parameter with the same result. Sigh! I'm thinking that framebuffer Or something like it is messing with the tty(s) from the moment the gui starts on. I think it has something to do with KMS because the nomodeset stops the kernel from setting graphics modes right up until then, and that is when I lose my tty(s)

What I don't know is how to tell console-setup to use the equivalent of 
the kernel parems of "vga=normal fb=false" for the tty(s) **_after_** X starts... 

In the mean time I recalled that with my desktop I'd had some issues until I created an actual xorg.conf... & I found a howto for that at:
 [http://grenage.com/xorg.html](http://grenage.com/xorg.html) 
Which included how to extract info on my graphics card which ```
lspci | grep VGA
```
reports as:
```
00:01.0 VGA compatable controler: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Device 9803
```

The resulting xorg.conf didn't help however... Any other ideas???

---

