---
title: "19.10: Messed up a config file, how to recreate it?"
date: 2020-02-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-02-26
I played around with /usr/share/sddm/themes/ubuntu-theme/main.qml and messed it up completely, it's FUBAR.

How can I reinstall this file? I've searched for it everywhere, but to no avail. Or is there a different solution?

Thank You.

(Sorry, but as a Ubuntu user since 8 months, I know just enough to be dangerous:( )

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-02-26
> **ml9104 said:**
> I played around with /usr/share/sddm/themes/ubuntu-theme/main.qml and messed it up completely, it's FUBAR.

How can I reinstall this file? I've searched for it everywhere, but to no avail. Or is there a different solution?
[LIST=1]
[*]Backup all critical data
[*]Then try:```
sudo apt install --reinstall sddm
```
[/LIST]
> (Sorry, but as a Ubuntu user since 8 months, I know just enough to be dangerous:( )
We've all been where you are. Linux is a powerful OS that gives you the freedom to do anything, including messing up your install.

Suggestions:

[LIST]
[*]Research and make use of a VM like KVM (already part of default install and native to Lubuntu) or install one like VirtualBox, VMWare, etc. Then do all of your experimenting on the VM. Break them all you want, then roll back to a known good snapshot.
[*]Always keep your bare-metal OS as close to default as possible. Resist the temptation to add PPAs, customize configs, add extensions, etc. You will thank yourself many times over with trouble-free upgrades, minimal breakdowns/bugs and easy access to help on these forums.
[*]Go through the links in my sig. There are many suggestions for cultivating good Linux habits contained therein.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-02-26
DuckHook, your solution worked wonderfully:
> [COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]sudo apt install --reinstall sddm[/FONT][/COLOR]
did the job. The only thing I lost was my login icon, easily recreated.

Thanks for your encouraging words to a greenhorn.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-02-26
Glad it worked out for you. If only all problems had such simple solutions.

Good Luck and Happy Lubuntu-ing!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-02-26
Another solution is to have a recent backup.  Then you could have restored that single file easily.

However, I will admit that I don't backup anything in /usr/share/.  I don't screw with themes, so nothing down there is not the package install default.  Anywhere you modify files needs to be in your backup directory list.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2020-02-26
And a hint for the next time: dpkg-query allows you to search for the package a file comes from. In this case the command would have been 'dpkg-query -S /usr/share/sddm/themes/ubuntu-theme/main.qml'. Of course this won't work for files that aren't in a package but are generated during installation or at some later time from other files.

Holger

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-02-26
> **TheFu said:**
> Another solution is to have a recent backup.  Then you could have restored that single file easily.

However, I will admit that I don't backup anything in /usr/share/.  I don't screw with themes, so nothing down there is not the package install default.  Anywhere you modify files needs to be in your backup directory list.

It doesn't even need to be as elaborate as being part of your backup regime. Copy the file to configfile.blah.backup before you edit it. If everything goes pear-shaped, copy it back. You can even do that from a live USB if it's all gone *really* pear-shaped.

---

