---
title: "Screen Resolution"
date: 2010-03-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Josh61980 on 2010-03-05
Hey all,
My main computer died a-few weeks ago as a result I've been using my net book as my primary machine.  By and large this has been alright.  However I recently plugged my 17" monitor into it, it works fine but I can't get the resolution larger than 800x60. Which is non ideal for the larger display I'm currently using.  Does anyone have any suggestions for getting the screen resolution higher.  I'm running an Aspire One with ubuntu net-book remix.  Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-03-05
This will probably have something to do with your hardware drivers which will involve, unsuprisingly, your hardware. I'd suggest posting some more information.  The easiest way of getting it is to install sysinfo.  In a terminal enter "sudo apt-get install sysinfo" .  Once it is in you can use it either from the terminal with the command "sysinfo" or from the GUI Applications>System tools>Sysinfo.  If you post the contents of the file generated by it ( file>save ) it will make it easier for people to advise you.  You may even find that searching by name for the specific driver used will bring up a post which has the nessesary information already posted.

---

### Post by marcofromperu on 2010-03-06
Hello - 

I am having sort of the same prob ... but for me I am able to bring the settings for my monitor up, however, the image on the monitor looks bloated or stretched out ... i attached my info ...help please

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2010-03-06
It could be my browser, I've been messing around with it, but I don't see any info' attached.  From the description it could be that you need to install/reinstall the hardware drivers which is System>Administration>Hardware Drivers.  Or it could be that you need to alter the settings, perhaps in a utility specific to your driver.  It may also, on earlier versions of Ubuntu, be worth taking a look at the xorg.conf file.  The last is a bit of a fiddle but if you search the forums there is plenty advice on that one.

---

### Post by Josh61980 on 2010-03-06
Hi All,
Thanks for the help thus far.  I attached the sysinfo output to this post.  The relevant bits seem to be:


GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		Intel Corporation Mobile 945GME Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
		Subsystem: Acer Incorporated [ALI] Device 015b

I know I'm using a netbook with a low powered graphic card.  I was hoping there was some way around this.  Thank y'all for your help.

---

