---
title: "19.10 - weird SDDM issue with flash/strobo login screen and boot"
date: 2020-03-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-03-29
Sorry if this is a bit long, bear with me please :)

Since almosta year, I have an HP/Compaq 6910p running Lubuntu (English). It works wonderfully, and I'm totally satisfied.

Recently, I bought a second 6910p (German). Did a basic install (including formating and partitioning) with the same DVD that I used on my first machine, upgraded the installation with sudo update, sudo full-upgrade etc.

The difference between the two is just the OS language.

The "new" machine acts up during boot and login:

1: white flash!
2: Lubuntu logo with .....
3: white flash!
4: black screen with mouse pointer.
5: white flash!
6: SDDM login screen.

Then, when moving the mouse cursor over the active elements on the SDDM login screen, I'm in a disco with strobo-lights.

I've searched the web, and found other references on this issue, but the proposed solutions are not really applicable (eg, /etc/X11/xorg.conf.d files)

By studying the BIOS of the machines, the English 6910p has v. F.16, the German F.14.

Also, the EN machine reports (lshw) Intel GM865 as graphics, the DE reports Intel GM965 plus ATI Radeon X2300 on PCI.

Upgrading the DE F.14 BIOS is not an option, there is zero support from HP on this.

Suggestions for a solution are _very_ welcome, Thank You.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-03-30
So, this +4 years old problem has no solution?
Extraordinary...

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-03-31
The hardware, especially graphics, is very different. On the other hand, languages have nothing to do with it.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-03-31
That's what I feared. It seems I have to muck around with ATI Radeon drivers. I hate that stuff (drivers, not ATI).

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-04-01
So, did an experiment and swapped the hard drives between the two laptops. My original English SSD ran perfectly on the new laptop immediately, even taking over the higher display resolution without issues. But the screen flashing persists.

It's definitely a conflict between the Radeon X2300 and the boot/SDDM process. I still haven't found a solution or a pointer to one :(

The motherboards are definitely different around the graphics section, thanks for the hint CelticWarrior.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-01
You may try, via UEFI ("BIOS") settings to select the iGPU Intel instead, if such option is available *and* you don't need the the extra power from the dGPU.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2020-04-02
> **ml9104 said:**
> Upgrading the DE F.14 BIOS is not an option, there is zero support from HP on this.



I would say that it is an option. My guess is that it can be done using a live boot of Freedos, officially supported or not.

---

