---
title: "11.10 Oneiric &gt;&gt; HP LaserJet 1200 stopped working"
date: 2012-01-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AdamDSmith on 2012-01-19
After  installing 11.10 Oneiric, HP LaserJet 1200  will no longer work   properly. It worked (most of the time) with my  previous Ubuntu   installations. I have seen other threads about 11.10 not  recognising printers. My printer gets recognised when I plug it into the  USB port, and sometimes will even print a page. But it is still  fundamentally broken, and this seems to be a separate issue. Not sure where best to   post my issue. Here is a  brief description:

The printer is  recognised just fine. System Settings > Printing;   HP-LaserJet-1200  icon is visible; clicking brings up properties dialog.   If I click "Print  Test Page", Printer State changes from "Idle" >   "Processing" >  "Idle". Notification appears to say "Printing   completed", but the  printer does nothing, except flash its green   light.

Attempting  to print LibreOffice writer document: Prints only first   page. Status  says "idle", but the green light is winking. No more pages   appear. Item  is no longer shown in the Document Print Status dialog.   Notification  says "Printing completed".

Try to print from Evince Document Viewer. Prints only 
[start]
PCL XL error
Subsystem: KERNEL
Error: IllegalTag
Operator: 0x3d
Position: 3119
[end]
Notification says "Printing completed"

Try  again. Printer State changes very briefly to "Processing", then   back to  "Idle". Nothing printed. Notification says "Printing   completed."

Try to print from plain text file using gedit. Nothing printed. Notification says "Printing completed."

If someone could let me know where to pursue this, I would be very grateful.

---

### Post by BC59 on 2012-01-19
Did you install the HPLIP application from the Ubuntu Software Center?

---

### Post by AdamDSmith on 2012-01-19
Thanks for the quick reply. 

The package that appears as "hplip" (version 3.11.7) in Synaptic was installed, yes. 

I have now just tried to install the more recent version from here
[http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/install_wizard/index.html](http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/install_wizard/index.html)

I followed the installation instructions that were on that site as closely as possible. No errors. Initially I was back in the same mess as before. The problem seems to be that the when the printer gets plugged into the USB, it is recognized automatically, but somehow the connection is incorrectly configured. However, by repeatedly playing around with deleting the printer connection (System Settings > Printing), adding a new printer connection (System Settings > Printing), and plugging in and out the printer from the USB, and switching it on and off to clear the flashing green light, I managed to get it to work.

Now prints just fine from LibreOffice Writer and Evince pdf viewer.

Unfortunately, I'm not sure whether it was the newer hplip version, or the delete/add new printer connection that fixed it. Once I have my work backlog out of the way, in a day or two, I'll see if I can reproduce the problem, and work out what the real solution actually was.

Either way, this is not a good experience to have when upgrading to 11.10.

---

### Post by Gagarin24 on 2012-03-13
I had the same problem with my HP 1200, it just stopped working in Ocelot. It showed a dialogue that it is printing and then that it is completed, but printer just started blinking like when it receives data but nothing happened, queue seemed empty.  I tried to add and remove printer and even to select different drivers but it didn't work.
 
Finally I installed the latest driver from HP (3.12.2) - it took some time because the driver had to be compiled, the installer script from HP was working without problems. Then I selected newly installed printer as default and deleted the old one. Now everything seems to work fine O:). G.

---

### Post by msewing on 2012-03-18
I had my HP LJ 1200 working fine after my update to Oneiric, but when I started fiddling (deleted, then reinstalled the 1200) it quit with the symptoms above.   Installing the latest HPLIP version did seem to cure the problem.

---

### Post by DottorBartolo on 2012-04-24
mmm... I have installed HPLIP 3.12.4 from the HP website but I still get the error
PCL XL Error
Subsystem: KERNEL
Error: IllegalAttribute
File Name: kerlib.c
Line number: 1183

I'm trying to print on a HP Color LaserJet 3600 via SAMBA.
Any idea?

---

### Post by DottorBartolo on 2012-05-02
Ah, I realized in the meantime that the technician had changed the printer, so I was using the wrong driver! Sometimes it's a hardware problem (my brain)... ;)

---

