---
title: "Got a temp Video card... how do I fix resolution?"
date: 2008-10-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-10-03
Alright I was able to get my hands on a temp video card until my main one gets here.

needless to say the video card I got was not a beast like my other one and it seems graphics and resolution have been severly limited.

I'm alright with the graphics being temporarily disabled, but it really affected my resolution and now everything is huge and I cant even see the entire desktop and all of my icons.

i tried right clicking and doing it that way... but it didnt seem to bring me to a menu I needed.

So where exactly do I change my resolution?

thanks.

---

### Post by ahsile on 2008-10-03
I believe it's System->Preferences->Screen Resolution

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-10-03
for some reason, it only has 800x600 and like 640x500 or something.

Why doesnt it have a smaller resolution?

I cant see half my desktop/screen?

---

### Post by mindoms on 2008-10-04
What graphics-card and monitor do you have?

please run the following in a terminal and post the output:
```

lspci | grep -i vga

```

and Quote the content of
/etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-10-04
> **mindoms said:**
> What graphics-card and monitor do you have?

please run the following in a terminal and post the output:
```

lspci | grep -i vga

```

and Quote the content of
/etc/X11/xorg.conf

This is what I get when I run that code...

psychedelicwonders@JohnnyScience:~$ lspci | grep -i vga
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV380 [Radeon X600 (PCIE)]
psychedelicwonders@JohnnyScience:~$ 


Not sure what you mean quote the content of /etc/x11/xorg.conf

Where do I find that info at?

This is only going to be a temporary situation for perhaps 2 weeks... so if I cant do anything, then no biggie, but I would like to at least be able to view the entire desktop much smaller.

I dont need the special effects right now.

---

### Post by mindoms on 2008-10-04
> **PsychedelicWonders said:**
> 
Not sure what you mean quote the content of /etc/x11/xorg.conf

Where do I find that info at?

/etc/X11/xorg.conf
this is the path to an file on your harddisk. Please paste its content

press alt+f2 and type in the box that should come up
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

copy the text and paste it here (great would be code tags)

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-10-04
because I am running a microsoft wirelsss keyboard, I havent found anyone to help me set all of the buttons up properly, the function buttons is one of the things that currently dont work.

What other way can I find it?

When I pull up the home folder, I dont see a file labeled etc?

I tried "show all files" and I still didnt see a file labeled that?

---

### Post by mindoms on 2008-10-05
> **PsychedelicWonders said:**
> because I am running a microsoft wirelsss keyboard, I havent found anyone to help me set all of the buttons up properly, the function buttons is one of the things that currently dont work.

You can open a thread on this and PM me the link. Maybe we get this done

> 
What other way can I find it?

Open a terminal and type:
```

gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
> 
When I pull up the home folder, I dont see a file labeled etc?

that?

In linux world, / is the root.
your home folder would be
/home/YourUserName

so if you pull up your home folder, you need to go up 2 folders, then enter etc then X11 and open xorg.conf

[quote
I tried "show all files" and I still didnt see a file labeled 
[/quote]

only files/folders that start with a period are hidden files. JFYI

---

### Post by PsychedelicWonders on 2008-10-05
running that code in the terminal...

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by mindoms on 2008-10-05
Your system tries to run an ATI Card using NVIDIA drivers,
dunno why thios works at all :)

====================
If something goes wrong in the following procedure and you have no graphical user interface at all you can revert by:

* press control+alt+F1
* login
* run the following
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.con_081005_pre-radeon /etc/X11/xorg.conf
sudo reboot

```
* Your system will reboot 
=====================

okay, here is what to do:
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_081005_pre-radeon
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```
find the line
```

Driver "nvidia"

```
and change it to
```

Driver "radeon"

```

save, and close gedit
now reboot and you should at least have a better resolution, and maybe 3d acceleration (for compiz/desktop effects)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-05
There are a couple of things you probably haven't tried yet. Go to System-->Administration-->Hardware Drivers to see if there is a restricted driver available for you video card.

I see from your xorg.conf that you are using the nvidia driver with an ati card so installing the proper drivers would make a whole lot of difference.

Jim

---

