---
title: "14.04 Firefox tries to open downloaded PDFs with software centre"
date: 2014-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by David_Stolz on 2014-11-27
Dear all,

I have a strange problem (which is not really bad, but really just strange):

When I download PDF files, Firefox asks me whether to open them or save them. Usually, the preselected software to open a file is the document viewer (which is fine) but sometimes Firefox preselects the Ubuntu Software Centre for opening, which obviously fails when I accidentally try to do this.

So there are two questions:

1.: Can anyone who had this problem explain to me how to fix it (i.e. make firefox **always** select a document reader when I download PDFs)? That would be great!

2.: More generally, on the interface which lets me chose between saving and opening the file, how can I select another program than the one chosen? When I click on the "other programs" button (or what it's called in English) in order to select another program, I get an interface showing my home directory. Since I have never seen anything like ".exe" (please excuse this windows comparison;)) or other application files in Ubuntu, I would not know what to select. Hope this is understandable. If not, please tell me so I can try to explain better...

Thanks in advance,
D

---

### Post by flaymond on 2014-11-27
I believe that Firefox prompt you to choose you wanna save or open the file. Also, there is checkbox for ' keep doing this '. Do you tick it?

---

### Post by David_Stolz on 2014-11-27
Well, yes it does prompt me exactly that..... I do not tick that box,no, because sometimes I do not want to open files directly.

---

### Post by flaymond on 2014-11-27
Ok, let's try open any PDF file you got -



***Open with.. ***> choose your document view software > click "make it default for this file type" 


or


  Right-click the pdf file, go to properties, and change the the default to your document viewer. Hope that help.

---

### Post by EnglishElectricAndy on 2014-11-27
> 1.: Can anyone who had this problem explain to me how to fix it (i.e. make firefox **always** select a document reader when I download PDFs)? That would be great!
 This can be caused by the incorrect MIME being applied to the filename by the originator of the file. For instance, if I change SomePhoto.jpg to SomePhoto.rar Firefox will (or should) offer to open the file with my default photo viewer rather than my archive manager. I'm not sure what MIME would cause the Software Centre to open though, perhaps a .deb or .tar.gz? In your case it would seem that, although the file is described as a .pdf, it was compiled in a different format.

---

### Post by David_Stolz on 2014-11-27
Thanks for your help! 

@InterProg, I do know how to choose standard programs and this works fine whenever I open files of any type (including pdf) from my harddrive. The problem really is the random behaviour of firefox.

@EnglishElectricAndy: I will check the properties of the next pdf file for which the software centre opens and see whether I find something interesting!

---

