---
title: "11.04 64bit - Unable To Install Truecrypt"
date: 2011-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by switchrodeo720 on 2011-05-16
I'm running Natty 64 bit and cannot install Truecrypt 7.0. I downloaded the tar.gz from [http://www.truecrypt.org/downloads](http://www.truecrypt.org/downloads) and have tried to install it several times, all without success.

I've tried to install it via terminal by running
```
./truecrypt-7.0a-setup-x64
```
and
```
sudo bash truecrypt-7.0a-setup-x64
```
and
```
sudo -i
./truecrypt-7.0a-setup-x64
```
all unsuccessfully. 

Each time it goes through the normal steps of having me accept the user agreement and the popup which tells you to run the "truecrypt.uninstall.sh" script to uninstall. 

The problem is that each time when I click 'ok' at the last step, my desktop environment freezes. 

I'm running unity 3d. The terminal I started the install process in doesn't produce any output.

Sometimes when the freeze occurs I can still move my mouse, but none of the menus or windows will respond. Other times the mouse will be frozen as well or it will just log me off.

I haven't found anyone else talking about this issue and I honestly don't know where to start looking for a way to fix it.

If anyone has had this experience or has suggestions on what/where to look for clues, please let me know.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-05-16
Note really a security question, so moved to General Help.

Does it does the same thing if you select "Gnome classic" at the login screen instead of unity?

---

### Post by switchrodeo720 on 2011-05-17
Yeah, I wasn't sure but I though the security guys would have been most likely to run into this bug.

Anyway, when I select Gnome classic at login I actually get the Unity panel and launcher as well as a new classic gnome panel at the bottom. I'm pretty sure this means something is fubar'd. When I run the TrueCrypt installer from my gnome classic session it also freezes. 

I was able to install the console version fine. 

I'm not really sure where to look next. Perhaps there's another GUI front end to the console version...

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-05-17
Hrm I wonder if you are able to boot a livecd and then try to install truecrypt, if only just to see what happens.

---

### Post by switchrodeo720 on 2011-05-18
Is there a way to boot a live cd/usb and install an application on a mounted partition?

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-05-18
I think you can use chroot, but I'm not quite sure how it works as I've only done it a couple times.

---

### Post by switchrodeo720 on 2011-05-22
I guess I've heard of that, but never understood how to use/do it. I still haven't figured it out, but I'm satisfied using the command line. 

I wouldn't be surprised if it's a Unity related bug. I've had issues with it freezing aside from TrueCrypt. I'm not complaining, as I actually like Unity a lot. I think it's just a young project.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-22
Try using 32-bit.  I'm seeing many complaint with 64-bit ubuntu and truecrypt.

---

