---
title: "Hp F2105"
date: 2006-08-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jyer on 2006-08-01
Hi,
I've just bought myself a HP F2105 screen and want to run it with my laptop using kde. When the screen is plugged in on boot, all the boot process (you know, with the ubuntu splash screen) is diplayed fine on the F2105 (nothing is displayed on my laptop's screen). 
At the login prompt the screen turns black and a text informs me that there's no input signal (the laptop monitor is still black). I'm then in front of a black F2105 screen, but I can access all the other ttys on the screen except for the seventh (the one that kde runs). It seems like the XServer doesn't support my screen, what could I do about that? 
The odd thing is that when I plug the screen in while KDE is running, a very fizzy and not complete (about a third is missing) desktop displays on the F2105 (parallel to the one on my laptop). Though it is far from perfect (it's actually so fizzy that I can't read a thing), it seems pretty encouraging, no?
Last question, if we manage to solve the fist one, is it possible to use the F2105 as a second monitor, independant from the laptop's one? I mean, have a destop on each screen that I can access indepandently (have a movie play on one screen and browse the web on the other)?
Thanks a lot,
jr


_Technicalities_:
Laptop:Littlebit Razor Z81
Graphic: ATI Mobility Radeon 9700, 128 MB
Nb: I tried it with Win XP, it worked fine.

---

### Post by jyer on 2006-08-04
Ok. I've worked my way round the display problem with the f2105 by modifying the xorg.conf file.
Though the display on my external monitor is now fine, I can't use both screens simultaneously. Do I need a specific driver for my laptop's Radeon Mobility graphic card?
Cheers,
jr

---

