---
title: "10.4 synaptic package manager error"
date: 2010-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Zafos on 2010-11-20
See 10.4 hibernate issue leads to no boot: No ubuntu partition! What hapened there may be linked to this problem. Btw, disk utility still is showing me only linux-swap logical partition in extended, but since I am posting this from ubuntu, I guess there is no problem.

Anyway, now my ubuntu boots very slowly, but it boots. The system is veeery lagy sometimes. I tried to install some updates, but an error occured, prompting me to run synapric package manager, or apt-get.
It sais the error message was E: Read error - read (5: Input/output error), E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened. This usually means that your installed packages have unmet depnencies.

So, I ran sudo apt-get updates, which was stuck while reading package lists. Then it gave me the same errors:
E: Read error - read (5: Input/output error)
E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.

Synaptic package manager gives me the same errors and a new 1 a while after I open it(until then I can press no button of it):

E: Read error - read (5: Input/output error)
E: The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.
E: _cache->open() failed, please report

I think it was trying to read package lists aswell.

I was installing updates just fine and my system wasn't laggy before my previous problem I describe in the other thread. I think that these 2 are connected somehow.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-11-20
You may have a problem with the file system or a disk failing. Try using the disk utility while running from the live cd, and check the Ubuntu partition.

---

### Post by Zafos on 2010-11-20
> **mikewhatever said:**
> You may have a problem with the file system or a disk failing. Try using the disk utility while running from the live cd, and check the Ubuntu partition.
That's what prolly fixed my previous problem. I had ran a gparted check that took about 22 minutes for my 250 giga drive.
I ran it again though and this time it took 2 minutes with gparted and as soon as I click check button with disk utility.

I know it's really big, but plz read my previous thread thoroughly. I think that this is just a symptom of whatever caused all that previous crap too. At any rate, thx for ur help, really.

---

### Post by Zafos on 2010-11-21
I have an important update.
I was trying out suspend and it worked fine. But the last time I suspended, when I tried to wake it up, I had black screen with my mouse only. So I shutdown via button. As the pc was about to close, the password input screen flashed, with some letters typed in, presumably the 1s I pressed in my effort to wake it up. Then it shutdown.
When I opened it, **grub loads me this command line: "grub>" . I pressed boot and it said no kernel.**
Via live cd, I verified that both my hard drives are ok(I checked them). The cd was loading for a long time though... Well, they weren't exactly ok, my ext4 partition was dirty, at least that's what I was told by disc utility. After check with gparted, its problems were fixed.EDIT: I also formatted linux-swap again.
**So, suspend seems to have uninstalled part of my grub or sth? How do I fix that?**

Should I change the thread title to match better this whole situation? How should I organise information from my previous thread and this 1? I am a forum newbie, any help?

---

### Post by Zafos on 2010-11-23
Now everything has gone to hell...
I opened the laptop to find grub restored! Hurray...or not. Ubuntu wasn't loading again.
Then I got command line again, so I booted a live cd session. Disc utility saw my whole disk as unallocated space...NOOO! Gparted wasn't loading though and the cd was loading very slowly, so I'll be using a different programm to burn a new cd, just to make sure...but I have a hunch, that I'm Fed.
Now I don't even have access to my windows, how nice. I guess that was the shtcherry on my pis flavored diarrhea cake of inexplicable errors, now with vomet filling. Sry, I just had to vent.
Those who want to help, read my previous thread as well. I want to keep as much of my data as possible and figuring out exactly what went wrong through this shtstorm of errors seems to be the only way, cause ,as far as I know, data recovery in greece...it's not gonna happen.

---

