---
title: "7.04: network and sound problems"
date: 2007-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by defcon4 on 2007-05-17
Hi all,

After I installed the latest Kubuntu 7.04 I got some strange problems. My NIC doesn't work properly, depending on the transfer volume I get this error messages in /var/log/messages:

eth1: NETDEV watchdog: transmission timeout

This only happens when a certain amount of data has been received (or send??), e.g. if I send a ping and get the answer, my NIC will work for a while. When I try to load a website with lots of graphics, the internet connection breaks immediately and I get the error message above. I also tested it with the onboard NIC, based on an Intel chip.

Then I've quirky sound problems: mp3 playback is much to slow. I'm not sure about other formats, so far I tested it with mp3 only.

My NIC is based on a Realtek RTL 8029, my soundcard is an  M-Audio Delta Audiophile 2496.

With Kunbuntu 6.10 everything is okay, so I assume that there's something buggy with 7.04. I tried a completely fresh installation as well as an online update from 6.10 to 7.04.

Any hints what's going wrong here?

---

### Post by defcon4 on 2007-05-18
No ideas? When I use the Live CD I get the same problems.

---

### Post by trippinnik on 2007-05-18
I don't really know about your sound problems (you didn't say much about it) but for the Realtek RTL 8029 it sounds like it's a driver issue.  Is it a wireless device?  I couldn't find much information about it, but it seems pretty old.  
can you try posting the output of 
dmesg
lspci
modprobe -l ne2000

maybe it's using the wrong driver, or the driver in the kernel has changed...

---

### Post by Matty360 on 2007-05-25
I get the same problem with my M-Audio Delta 1010,  All audio playback is at a reduced speed/pitch, including system sounds.

---

### Post by defcon4 on 2007-06-01
Really strange. For now I switched back to 6.10, but if I don't find a solution I'll try the latest SUSE.

---

