---
title: "10.04 acer compatibility"
date: 2010-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Acibeb on 2010-04-20
hi all,

anyone knows if the final version of 10.04 will be compatible with acer aspire one 751? i read that at the moment a lot of work needs to be done to sort out the resolution, wifi led etc. will mic finally work? it doesn't on my old acer...

thanks

---

### Post by v1ad on 2010-04-20
currently on a acer aspire 4810. everything works perfect. from the first beta. 2nd 1 also works.

---

### Post by ExiledV2 on 2010-04-21
Running 10.04 on an Acer Aspire 1410 netbook. No problems here. Wired/wireless work out of the bag, no hardware problems so far.

---

### Post by borg310 on 2010-04-30
> **v1ad said:**
> currently on a acer aspire 4810. everything works perfect. from the first beta. 2nd 1 also works.

how about the problems with karmic and aspire 4810, such as 

[LIST]
[*]cd-eject-button not working
[*]touchpad-button not functioning correctly
[*]internal mic not working from the start
[/LIST]
do you still need the work-arounds or does it work correctly in 10.04??

thanks!

---

### Post by MrVas on 2010-05-09
> **borg310 said:**
> how about the problems with karmic and aspire 4810, such as 

[LIST]
[*]cd-eject-button not working
[*]touchpad-button not functioning correctly
[*]internal mic not working from the start
[/LIST]
do you still need the work-arounds or does it work correctly in 10.04??

thanks!All of the above work just fine on my Acer Extensa 5620, with CD eject has been tested with the "eject" command.  Initially I did have an issue with the internal microphone, but that was resolved by:

[LIST=1]
[*]Installing generic backports modules.
```
sudo apt-get install linux-backports-modules-alsa-lucid-generic
```
[*]Adding the following line to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf:
```
options snd-hda-intel model=auto
```
[*]And increasing volume for microphone in alsamixer (screenshot attached).

[/LIST]

I am running the Lucid (10.04):

```
~$ uname -r
2.6.32-22-generic
```

With the following audio device:

```
cat /proc/asound/card*/codec\#*|grep -i codec
Codec: Realtek ALC268
Codec: Conexant ID 2c06

```

Hope this helps.

Vas

---

