---
title: "display device has restarted six times..."
date: 2009-12-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ggezpz on 2009-12-13
Hi,

First off, I'm pretty much completely new to Ubuntu (switched from XP to 8.04 a few months ago). Today, I just ran into a problem booting up into linux (I dual boot XP still).

Basically, when I try to boot into Ubuntu, everything proceeds normally, until I get to the login screen. It flashes really briefly and then jumps back into some sort of text mode. This happens a few times and then I get a warning screen "Display device has restarted six times in 90 seconds. Something bad is happening....Will try again in 2 minutes".

I've tried booting into the recovery mode and running the "xfix" thing (sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg). That didn't help. From what I've been able to understand from other posts, this should really resolve all video issues and send you back into a basic default state. Any ideas or suggestions? Thanks in advance!

Also, I can access all of the files on the linux partition from XP, and I looked at the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file - it's the default one generated by that recofigure util.

Hardware specs: Dell Vostro 1400, Intel C2D, nvidia GeForce 8400M GS

---

### Post by ggezpz on 2009-12-13
Some more information:

I booted into recovery mode, then selected the option "run as root shell" or something along those lines. Then, I tried the following from the command-line prompt:

> startx
- This loaded some kind of grey screen with an "X" for a cursor, which then crashed with some complaint about not finding Nvidia drivers.

> gdm
- This started the original login screen, but still with the flashing behavior as before (and the "display device has restarted six times...." error).

After this, I felt that maybe GDM was the problem, so I did a clean reinstall of the following packages:
gdm
ubuntu-desktop

I tried running GDM again, but still the same flashing behavior, even after the reinstall.

---

### Post by ggezpz on 2009-12-17
never mind. i reinstalled the latest version of Ubuntu, and everything is running now. still not sure what the problem was.

---

### Post by xifer on 2009-12-17
> **ggezpz said:**
> Hi,

Also, I can access all of the files on the linux partition from XP, and I looked at the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file - it's the default one generated by that recofigure util.



Hmm, it might not be a good idea to access/EDIT unix files from a windows system - quite likely to corrupt something.

---

