---
title: "Odd USB device mounting problem"
date: 2009-06-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by strawdonkey on 2009-06-24
Hello,

Been using Ubuntu on a headless box for a few months now, and recently I've had a funny problem with my USB devices and where they mount to.

I have a Sony Ericsson W910i which I use as an MP3 player. I use Liferea to automatically download my podcasts, and then log in via SSH and run a shell script that copies everything from the folder where the podcasts are saved onto my W910i, which should mount in /media/CARD.

I'm getting the odd bit of funny behaviour though:

- I always unmount the USB drives before disconnecting them (the phone has some internal memory too). However, sometimes when I plug the phone back in, Ubuntu thinks the phone is still mounted from the first time round, and mounts the memory card to /media/CARD_.
- Occasionally the phone will reset while plugged in, and in mass storage mode. The onboard memory, /dev/sdb1, remains connected as /dev/sdb1, but the memory card, /dev/sdc1, will often become /dev/sdd1 or something else along those lines.

I just want Ubuntu to unmount when I tell it to, and remount when I plug the card in, or at least run 'mount /dev/sdc1'. Below is a copy of my /etc/fstab file.

Am I missing something obvious or is Ubuntu just having a strop?

Cheers

Donk

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=cf1d9e3c-2d6f-4a42-8c10-3b70676faad4 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7afcdfa5-73c3-411b-b415-aefdc51fc38b none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Data ntfs rw,auto,user,exec 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/CARD vfat rw,noauto,user,exec 0 0
```

---

### Post by sedawk on 2009-06-24
Hello!

I think both problems are connected, if your computer
thinks /media/CARD is still in use it also thinks that
/dev/sdc(1) is still in use and therefore will use CARD_ and /dev/sdd(1).

I had similar problems in the past but now they are gone.
Either I changed my way of working, the PC, or upgrades
Ubuntu.

Are you (still) running Ubuntu 7.x ?

---

### Post by strawdonkey on 2009-06-24
I'm running Ubuntu 9.04. I don't recall having any issues with 8.10 but that might just be a coincidence.

---

