---
title: "Ubuntu system painfully slow"
date: 2012-06-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joblafors on 2012-06-19
Hello. I recently installed Ubuntu on my Home-PC and everythng is a lot slower then when i had XP system, big web pages lag like crazy, I can forget about flash videos - all i have is slide-shows. I have no such problem on my laptop, it has ubuntu and runs faster then with windows system. I have all restricted drivers (for nvidia), I have no idea how to fix this.


Please post if I need to give some additional info, thank you for any help.

Here is my full system info:
> 
System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 6/19/2012 3:38:04 PM
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 12.04 (precise) release.
	GNOME: unknown (unknown)
	Kernel version: 3.2.0-25-generic (#40-Ubuntu SMP Wed May 23 20:33:05 UTC 2012)
	GCC: 4.6 (i686-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: 1.11.3 (07 May 2012  11:39:37PM) (07 May 2012  11:39:37PM)
	Hostname: home-desktop
	Uptime: 0 days 2 h 57 min

CPU INFORMATION
	AuthenticAMD, AMD Athlon(tm) 64 Processor 3200+
	Number of CPUs: 1
	CPU clock currently at 2000.000 MHz with 512 KB cache
	Numbering: family(15) model(95) stepping(2)
	Bogomips: 4020.52
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow up extd_apicid pni cx16 lahf_lm svm extapic cr8_legacy

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 2013 MB
	Total swap: 2046 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  ExcelStor Techno 
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  LITE-ON  
		Model:  COMBO SOHC-5236K 
	SCSI device -  scsi2
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  ST3320620AS      

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
	PCI bridge(s)
		NVIDIA Corporation MCP55 PCI bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 01 [Subtractive decode])
		NVIDIA Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		NVIDIA Corporation MCP55 PCI bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 01 [Subtractive decode])
		NVIDIA Corporation MCP55 PCI Express bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
	ISA bridge
		NVIDIA Corporation MCP55 LPC Bridge (rev a2)
		Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device 0c11
	IDE interface
		NVIDIA Corporation MCP55 SATA Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
		Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device b002

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		NVIDIA Corporation G71 [GeForce 7950 GT] (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
		Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device 3433

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		NVIDIA Corporation MCP55 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
		Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device a002

NETWORK

NVIDIA GRAPHIC CARD INFORMATION
	Model name: unknown
	Card Type: unknown 16x
	Video RAM: 512 MB
	GPU Frequency: 550 MHz
	Driver version: NVIDIA UNIX x86 Kernel Module  295.40  Thu Apr  5 21:28:09 PDT 2012

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2012-06-19
On a system with the specs of yours Ubuntu should run fast enough.
Seems like some application claims too many resources. To find out which, you might run top in a terminal:

Open a terminal and type:

top

You'll get a screen with a number of columns. One of them is called %CPU, and you can see in this column the percentage of CPU that is used by each of the running programs.

Same for Memory and other.

You can also see whether swap is used and how much, swapping (placing (part of) the contents of memory on the hard disk, and when needed reloading this again into memory) makes the computer very, very slow.

Topsiho

---

### Post by flemur13013 on 2012-06-19
Though you say "everythng is a lot slower", is everything slower when your browser isn't running?  

I've found that 12.04 + FF + flash can make my entire system hang for seconds at a time, not just the browser: disabling the flash plugin unless it's needed (which isn't often) fixes it (using gnash, clearing directories, changing flash versions, screwing with video drivers, etc, etc, didn't have any effect).  It occurs on pages that seemingly don't have flash content ([http://reason.com/blog](http://reason.com/blog) for example - it often or usually hangs with flash, but works fine without flash). 

So anyway, if your problem is mainly when the browser's running, you might try disabling the flash plugin and see what happens.

---

### Post by joblafors on 2012-06-19
At the moment I have Java (Intellij IDEA IDE) using big part of my RAM. But even with this I shouldnt get such lags (i have never had them on XP). 

Even if I open Clean Gnome session without Compiz and Cairo and  just one Chrome tab - it wont be smooth, and flash video will have slideshow effect on it.

[IMG]http://img.lejup.lv/images/lejupvyvinoc1340113997.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by joblafors on 2012-06-19
> **flemur13013 said:**
> Though you say "everythng is a lot slower", is everything slower when your browser isn't running?  

I've found that 12.04 + FF + flash can make my entire system hang for seconds at a time, not just the browser: disabling the flash plugin unless it's needed (which isn't often) fixes it (using gnash, clearing directories, changing flash versions, screwing with video drivers, etc, etc, didn't have any effect).  It occurs on pages that seemingly don't have flash content ([http://reason.com/blog](http://reason.com/blog) for example - it often or usually hangs with flash, but works fine without flash). 

So anyway, if your problem is mainly when the browser's running, you might try disabling the flash plugin and see what happens.

Thank you - yes this is good advice, but I have already done it - I have plugin for Chrome that disables flash by default, if i need it on page i have to enable it.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2012-06-19
Thanks for on my advice running top.

What I see is that your system is using swap quite extensively. You need to determine now why.


Topsiho

---

### Post by irv on 2012-06-19
I have been a Firefox user since the first day it was released,but here of late it has been giving me some problems. I switched to Google Chrome and I couldn't believe how much faster my browsing the Internet improved. Now after using Chrome for awhile, I am going to stay with it. I found there are so many thing I like about it compared to Firefox. In fact I was so impressed with it I order my wife a Chromebook and according to the tracking I should have it today.
Getting back to your problem, Try Chrome and see if this helps with your browsing slowness problem.
[https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser/]("https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser/")

---

### Post by joblafors on 2012-06-19
> **Topsiho said:**
> Thanks for on my advice running top.
What I see is that your system is using swap quite extensively. You need to determine now why.
Topsiho

Thank you for your help.
So 14996k used out of 2096124k is too much? Or is there some other thing you look at when referring to swap ?


> **irv said:**
> I have been a Firefox user since the first day it was released,but here of late it has been giving me some problems. I switched to Google Chrome and I couldn't believe how much faster my browsing the Internet improved. Now after using Chrome for awhile, I am going to stay with it. I found there are so many thing I like about it compared to Firefox. In fact I was so impressed with it I order my wife a Chromebook and according to the tracking I should have it today.
Getting back to your problem, Try Chrome and see if this helps with your browsing slowness problem.
[https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser/]("https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/browser/")

I have been using Chrome from day one :) And have removed Firefox completely when they improved there developer tools to be at same level (and now more) then firebug.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2012-06-19
As far as I can see joblafors is using chrome, not Firefox :) 

In the top screen I see that chrome ( + java) uses a very large percentage of CPU-time. And that the processor is idle for only 55%.

But what worries me most is that swap has nearly 12000k data in it. On my machines with lesser specs I almost never see that swap is used at all.

Topsiho

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2012-06-19
You say swap now contains 14996 k of data? And in the top screen you posted it was "only" 11992 k. That means that your swap is still active.

A reason might be (I am only thinking) that part of your RAM (memory) is not OK. So you might try checking the memory, at least a number of passes. The reason I think that is that swapping typically takes place when there is not enough memory. 2 GiB usually is quite enough, but not if it is defective :)

Topsiho

---

### Post by sudodus on 2012-06-19
The new Ubuntu with Unity or Gnome 3 needs much more horsepower and memory than the previous versions based on Gnome 2.

I suggest that you download and try Lubuntu and Xubuntu. I am not sure, but maybe the 32-bit versions will be faster.

- Lubuntu has the ultra-light desktop environment LXDE and

- Xubuntu has the light desktop environment XFCE and is a good alternative for an aging computer.

I think that you will see a big difference in speed and responsiveness with these two flavours of Ubuntu.

Of course, try them live, booted from a CD or USB drive before installing anything. This is the best alternative. You may need to 'install' a proprietary driver into the live system to experience the full speed. It will *not* affect the hard drive).

An alternative is to install only the desktop environments into your present system.

```
sudo apt-get install lubuntu-desktop
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop
```
or only the DEs
```
sudo apt-get install lxde
sudo apt-get install xfce
```

*Edit: You select the desktop environment at the log in screen clicking the circular Ubuntu logo near the user names*

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2012-06-19
On a machine with this "horsepower" you don't need to use the lightweight versions Lubuntu or Xubuntu. Lubuntu is quite nice though, Xubuntu I don't know :)

I have a machine with far lower specs (same CPU, 1 GiB memory) that runs Ubuntu 12.04 quite well. Only 2d Unity, though, as the graphics card is an old AGP one (Geforce FX 5500).

Topsiho

---

### Post by irv on 2012-06-19
I took note of this in the OP.
> MEMORY INFORMATION
Total memory: 2013 MB
Total swap: 2046 MB

---

### Post by irv on 2012-06-19
I thought I would post my top so you can compare the swap part at the top of the screen.
[ATTACH]219934[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by sudodus on 2012-06-19
My system has a faster CPU. The graphics is of the same age, but my  graphics is much slower.

```
CPU
OP's: AMD Athlon(tm) 64 Processor 3200+               slower
mine: AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 4400+  faster

same RAM size

Graphics
OP's: GeForce 7950 GT faster
mine: GeForce 7050 PV slower
```

My experience is that Ubuntu 10.04 LTS is running very well, but the current version 12.04 LTS is really lagging. I have not done any tweaking, only tried Unity, Gnome shell and Unity 2d. Instead I am looking for alternatives, and I might run Lubuntu with the addition of xubuntu-desktop on this computer before the end of life of 10.04.

It is possible that OP's faster graphics will make it work quite well with Ubuntu 12.04 after some tweaking. Anyway, now you know why I suggest lighter desktop environments.

---

### Post by Gyokuro on 2012-06-19
Yes 10.04 runs very well now - optimized and fine tuned over some time now and with a different DE as the current one but nobody should forget that 12.04 is young and Unity I think have to be checked whether some optimizations are possible and some other bits too. It's always good to install all updates and maybe you can try a x64 Precise release to use all features of your CPU which is capable to handle them.

Java IDE's are memory hungry and 2GB is at the moment low end for Java dev stuff so maybe you should think about to stick in another 2GB RAM in your box. Disabling unused features could bring back some amount of RAM (IPv6 in case you do not need it).  As you are using IntelliJ you can optimize it's memory usage too:

[http://blogs.jetbrains.com/idea/2006/04/configuring-intellij-idea-vm-options/](http://blogs.jetbrains.com/idea/2006/04/configuring-intellij-idea-vm-options/)

however i like more Eclipse which is more speedy (thanks for swt) as plain Java IDE's like Intellij or Netbeans.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2012-06-20
I am now using Ubuntu 12.04 on the machine with the same processor as the OP, and only 1 GiB of memory. Ubuntu 12.04 runs quite fine on this machine (the OP (his machine) has 2 GiB of memeory).

I have top running too, and watched it for a while. It is very dynamic, sometimes the processoris almost 100% idle, and sometimes it is busy for near 100%.

Different from what i've said in earlier posts, swap IS used, for some 44k now, and climbing. Seems that what is in it is not wiped, so the contents are increasing. Not how much is in it matters, but how fast it is written to. But: from only a snapshot of top one cannot gather the necessary information.

I have Firefox running. Sometimes it does nothing, and sometimes it uses the full 100% of the processor time, for a short while.

There are also a lot of background processes going on, of which sometimes one gets a lot of processor time. Xorg, gnome-terminal, meatacity, and so on.

My computer runs very well, for most of the time, on Ubuntu 12.04, with lesser specs than the OP's computer.

I think of a hardware problem. Memory should be checked, and possibly the hard disk. Things that are easily checked.

Topsiho

---

### Post by joblafors on 2012-06-27
Thank you all for your help with this.
I installed Lubuntu desktop and now performance is way better, thank you.

I still have few questions thou:

*)Still my swap gets used all the time, dont know what could be the problem (I did memtest86+ and no errors).

*)Is there lighter better player then Banshee that you would recommend?

*) ~65% of my Mem is used, but there are just few tasks that use more then 1% of my Mem ?

[IMG]http://img.lejup.lv/images/lejupscuresx1340829231.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by sudodus on 2012-06-28
> *)Still my swap gets used all the time, dont know what could be the problem (I did memtest86+ and no errors).

I would not worry that such a small amount of data is swapped.
> 
 *)Is there lighter better player then Banshee that you would recommend?

Try some of the available players, and select the one you like the best. Some of them are combined audio and video players like VLC and mplayer. Some are 'only' audio players. It is pretty much a matter of taste and habits, what features you appreciate.
> 
 *) ~65% of my Mem is used, but there are just few tasks that use more then 1% of my Mem ?

There are different ways to present the memory usage. The classic ***top*** shows a high value used at the top of its display. The following columns are showing various parts of the memory usage.

VIRT RES SHR MEM%

The ***system monitor*** (GUI application) and ***htop***
```
sudo apt-get install htop
``` show the same value for used memory (and lower than top). I check how much memory is available for new processes with htop.

---

