---
title: "Too much space used up by sess files"
date: 2016-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ELMIT on 2016-09-15
I was wondering where my space got lost. I installed ncdu and run it with sudo.

It revealed that in /var/lib/php5  are 1.9 million sess_ files with a size of 29 GB.

How can I win  back this space. Can I just do:

sudo rm /var/lib/php5/sess_*  ???

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-09-15
Yes you can, but you should first take a look at the application generating those files.  (I'd also leave any files from the past 24 hours or so.)  Those files contain session data, so you must be running a PHP application that uses sessions.  The question is why are the sessions not expiring more quickly? In php.ini, what value do you have for session.gc_maxlifetime?  It should be something reasonable like 1440 seconds (the default) or perhaps 3600 seconds.

---

### Post by ELMIT on 2016-09-15
grep session.gz_maxlifetime /etc/php5/apache2/php.ini 
grep session.gz_maxlifetime /etc/php5/cli/php.ini 

gives me nothing.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-09-15
It's "session.g**c**_maxlifetime" not "session.g**z**_maxlifetime".

Also do you know which web applications you're hosting that use sessions?  That would help, too.

---

### Post by ELMIT on 2016-09-15
yes, it is set:
session.gc_maxlifetime = 1440 

There are only wordpress sites.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-09-16
WordPress apparently [doesn't use sessions]("https://wordpress.org/support/topic/how-does-wordpress-handle-sessions-and-session-variables/") at all.  I noticed that no files were created when I visited my blog so I did a little searching.

Apparently it is possible to get WP to use sessions, but you need to install a [plugin]("https://wordpress.org/plugins/wp-native-php-sessions/").  Can your bloggers customize their sites?  Maybe someone is running this or another plugin, or wrote some code to use sessions manually, and it's not cleaning up after itself.  Usually PHP handles all of this via its "garbage collection" routines, but if your users can write their own scripts, then who knows what is going on?

Are the files you have recent?  If they are being generated by a currently-running PHP application, and the site is reasonably active, you should see files with very recent timestamps.

---

