---
title: "11.10 won't boot on VIA EPIA-MS system"
date: 2012-08-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jolladay on 2012-08-20
Hello,

I have ubuntu 11.10 loaded on an external hdd and it boots fine on my Intel Atom system. When I try to get it to load on my old VIA EPIA-MS system with Eden ESP10k processor, it will get to GRUB just fine but when I select which OS to boot into (Ubuntu 11.10), it goes to a black screen and stays there until the system simply restarts after a few minutes and goes back into GRUB.

EDIT: On the VIA system, it does go to GRUB ok with the exception that the GRUB menu flows of the right and bottom of the screen and is cut off. So obviously there is some resolution issue there as well but I have no idea if this is affecting the booting.

Any help is greatly appreciated!

Thanks,

-Jolladay

---

### Post by Jolladay on 2012-08-20
Bump, does anyone know how I can determine why Ubuntu won't boot? 

Thanks!

-Jolladay

---

### Post by Jolladay on 2012-08-22
Anyone? Bueller?

-Jolladay

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-08-23
Hello
I'm not sure, but I think that when you install Ubuntu on PC n°1, its drivers get "specialized" for this particular PC n°1. Sometimes PC n°2 will be fine with the same drivers, sometimes not.
That's why I would recommend to use a standard liveUSB (with data partition if needed) so that it has more chances to work on several types of hardware.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-08-23
> **YannBuntu said:**
> I'm not sure, but I think that when you install Ubuntu on PC n°1, its drivers get "specialized" for this particular PC n°1. Sometimes PC n°2 will be fine with the same drivers, sometimes not.
This isn't true. The Linux kernel probes for hardware and loads the correct drivers every time you boot, not just on installation.

It could be just that the CPU on that system just doesn't have all of the necessary features that the Ubuntu kernel requires. I'll try and have a look at the processor specs to see if I can find out.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-08-23
It depends on which version of the processor that board has.

> Nearly all x86-based (IA-32) processors still in use in personal computers are supported, including all varieties of Intel's "Pentium" series. This also includes 32-bit AMD and VIA (former Cyrix) processors, and processors like the Athlon XP and Intel P4 Xeon.

However, Ubuntu precise will not run on i586 or earlier processors. Despite the architecture name "i386", support for actual 80386 processors (and their clones) was dropped with the Sarge (r3.1) release of Debian. (No version of Linux has ever supported the 286 or earlier chips in the series.) Support for i586 and lower processors, as well as for i686 processors without the cmov instruction, was dropped in Ubuntu 10.10. Most i686 and later processors are still supported.

Only some versions of the ESP10K support the cmov instruction.
You will have to find out the exact processor model and research it's specs to find out if you can run the later versions of Ubuntu.
10.04 should work either way.

---

### Post by YannBuntu on 2012-08-23
> **Cheesemill said:**
> The Linux kernel probes for hardware and loads the correct drivers every time you boot, not just on installation.

Thanks. For information, is this also true when the user has installed non-free drivers?

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-08-23
> **YannBuntu said:**
> Thanks. For information, is this also true when the user has installed non-free drivers?
You will get problems if you switch from an ATI machine to an Nvidia machine (or vice versa) **and** you are using the restricted drivers. You need to uninstall any restricted graphics drivers before you make the switch.
Exccept for this there are no problems, I have a full install on a USB stick that has worked on every machine I've tried it on (at least 50 machines).

---

