---
title: "22.10 cannot execute binaries with the x32-ABI"
date: 2022-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hartrumpf on 2022-10-24
22.10 cannot execute any x32 binaries (x32: x32-ABI, see [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X32_ABI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X32_ABI)). This is critical for us because x32 has been saving us 1 out of 5 servers (and server costs) for many years. Example program helloworld.c:

```
#include <stdio.h>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
int main(argv) { printf("Hello World.\n"); }
```
```
# gcc-12 -mx32 -o $@ helloworld.c
# helloworld
-bash: ./helloworld: cannot execute binary file: Exec format error
```
If I try the binary on 22.04 or any older Ubuntu, it works as expected. Also, x32 binaries compiled on older Ubuntu versions, stop working on 22.10.

What am I missing? Should I file a bug (launchpad), but against which package?

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-10-24
IMO, you should stop upgrading needlessly and stick with the LTS version. Especially as you're running a (small) server farm.
But that's just my personal way of thinking.

---

### Post by hartrumpf on 2022-10-24
> **ne29914 said:**
> IMO, you should stop upgrading needlessly and stick with the LTS version.
Yes, I agree. But we also experiment with non-LTS versions, just to be not surprised by the next LTS :-) (If no one happens to test a a specific feature in non-LTS, a bug / removal of a feature might end up in LTS.)

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-10-24
> **hartrumpf said:**
> Yes, I agree. But we also experiment with non-LTS versions, just to be not surprised by the next LTS :-) (If no one happens to test a a specific feature in non-LTS, a bug / removal of a feature might end up in LTS.)
I get that idea. But then it's not "critical", I think.

---

### Post by hartrumpf on 2022-10-25
The Ubuntu kernels beginning with version 5.17 up to the current 6.0 have removed the kernel configuration option CONFIG_X86_X32. Hence, the last Ubuntu kernel that can run x32 binaries is 5.16. Really disappointing given the advantages of x32 for some niche applications.

---

### Post by hartrumpf on 2022-10-26
For reference: I filed this bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1994516](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1994516)

---

