---
title: "14.04 Fails to boot - poss graphics problem?"
date: 2015-03-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Al Grant on 2015-03-16
Good Morning,

I have been running Ubuntu 14.04 for sometime on my desktop machine. 

Some of the software I run seems to need Nvidia propriety drivers so I installed them and things have been ok for sometime. I installed 340 from memory.

Now when I go to boot the computer eventually stalls on a flashing cursor. 

A boot goes through the following:

1. POST OK
2. I get a Purple Ubuntu screen with a few dots then;
3. A Message about /mnt/data missing (which is ok cause it is) so I hit "S" and skip
4. Then the flashing cursor

I have tried, and can get to the grub menu. From there I try recovery mode which gives me another menu with various options. I have tried:

FailsafeX
fsck

Both of those only advance about one line, which I dont have infront of me but says something like:

fsck /dev/sda1 clean, <message about number of files>

I think I can get to a command line and remove the Nvidia driver, but I am not sure thats actually the source of the problem, given it was running ok.

Double ESC when loading doesnt reveal much as I end up the at "Recovery Menu" successfully.

The graphics card by the way is a EVGA GTX470.

Any help appreciated.

Regards,

-Al

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2015-03-21
Please tell me what hardware you have (make, model)?

On boot, after the BIOS pOST messages, press the <left-shift> to display the grub menu. Press <E> to get into the edit menu on the first menu choice. <Arrow-Down> until you get the the line that starts with "linux". <Arrow-Right> to the end of that line. Delete the text "quiet splash". Append that line with "debug -verbose nosplash nomodeset". Press <cntrl><X> to boot.

If that does not boot to graphics, go through the same, but instead append the text "debug -verbose text"... and boot it. That should get you to a CLI command prompt. Then post the results of 
```

sudo lshw -n -c video

```

Next would be to try to boot a LiveCD or LiveUSB to use for diagnostics. If one of those boots to graphics... then I'll tell you which log files I need to see.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2015-03-25
bump. Is this resolved? PM me when if you get back to this. If it is resolved, please mark this thread as solved.

---

