---
title: "13.04 untrusted package: is it a bug?"
date: 2013-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PouncingAnt on 2013-05-24
I've noticed that when I try to install Japanese language support that I need to use apt-get to install anthy as it is untrusted. Because of this, it isn't impossible to install the Japanese language pack in a fresh install of 13.04. This is a bug, right?

But I've no idea whether it is a bug for ubuntu or ibus, or some other facet of the OS that I've not any experience in. I'm sure the "Reporting bugs" pages of the wiki are helpful, but I need to get on with work, so I'm posting here in the off-chance that, in the meantime, someone can inform me of: 1) whether anthy (and other language-related packages) being untrusted on a fresh install is actually a bug 2) if 1 ==true, where in launchpad should that bug be noted?

Apologies for taking up people's time. I'll try to get round to finding this out myself, but my magic 8-ball is not optimistic ;)

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-05-24
No, it is not a bug. It is the installer asking you to take responsibility for downloading and installing that package. Canonical will take responsibility for certain software and we do not get that message. Canonical will also make it possible to install software from community developers but we take responsibility for installing it. This is the sense of the software being from an untrusted source.

There is nothing to prevent us installing software using the terminal. But where did we get it? So, we are given a warning. That is all this is. I see that anthy is in the Ubuntu software Centre and Canonical have agreed to support this software until February 2014, at least. So, why install it from the terminal? Unless you want a later version that is not supported by Canonical. And that is where you came in.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1941006](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1941006)

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/117015/update-error-require-installation-of-untrusted-packages](http://askubuntu.com/questions/117015/update-error-require-installation-of-untrusted-packages)

This special issue of Ubuntu Full Circle magazine has a section on fixing this Untrusted Packages problem. It is page 17.

[http://fullcirclemagazine.org/ubuntu-11-10-and-unity-special-edition/](http://fullcirclemagazine.org/ubuntu-11-10-and-unity-special-edition/)

Regards

---

### Post by PouncingAnt on 2013-05-24
I installed it from the terminal because the "Language support" program would not install it automatically; indeed Language support would just give up because the package was untrusted, despite having already given it my password. To reiterate: there was no option to continue the language installation regardless* of untrusted packages...

If, as you say, this is not a bug, does this mean that the behaviour (that trying to install the Japanese language is impossible** via the GUI) on a fresh 13.04 is *intended*? Or maybe you misunderstood me?

In any case, I appreciate your reply; it was quite helpful, though I still find the issue peculiar.



*except when using the terminal

**Perhaps not impossible, but all the workarounds for this issue that I've come across seem to involve the terminal. While my opinion may be irrelevant (which rarely stops me talking...), but it seems undesirable to have to whip out a terminal 1) because it breaks the workflow of installing the language and 2) novices despise terminals

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-05-24
*Thread moved to **General Help**.*

---

