---
title: "Jaunty Issue with Nvidia Settings, want to change to second graphics card"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by berlinbrown on 2009-04-27
Before asking my question, here are some prelims:

I did an upgrade, through the Jaunty torrent and then did an update to get up to date.

I have a 4 year old custom machine (Asus, 3.5 gigs ram, 32 bit not 64 bit). 

I have always gone the upgrade route for the last 4 years.

Things have been working fine and I am OK now but there are a couple of issues I have with my graphics card and graphics configuration.

Before Jaunty.  I had/have a dual monitor configuration, both with nvidia graphics, essentially the same card.  Before jaunty, this configuration worked.  I was able to use both monitors (twinview I believe).  Normally I did most of the configuration through the Nvidia-settings GUI application.  I would only check the xorg.conf file everyonce in a while.

To present day (as of 2 days ago):

I now I have one graphics card working (GPU-0).  I haven't figured out a way to get the second card configured.  That is fine, I want to use one graphics card for the time being.

Here is my question:

My question is, I can't figure out how to use the second graphics card.  It is slightly better card and I want to use that one (short of taking the other one out).  I can't figure out a way to switch to GPU-1 (this is what the nvidia GUI application calls the second card).   It looks like the nvidia settings detect it, but there is no option to  switch to it.

My xorg.conf is very generic and I don't see anything about GPU-1.  I tried switching using xorg.conf using my old settings but X doesn't come up at all.

Here is my xorg.conf and I don't really know what Configured Video Card is or what that is defined:

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Videocard0"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Option  "NoLogo"        "True"
        Driver  "nvidia"
EndSection
----

And the lspci output:

02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV37GL [Quadro FX 330/GeForce PCX 5300] (rev a2)
05:09.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200] (rev a1)

Basically, I just want to switch to graphics card 2.

And just another small issue, I am having trouble saving the configuration file to X (through the nvidia GUI).  Sometimes it wont' give an error message but the settings never keep.  Sometimes it will say, "Failed to save xorg.conf".

---

### Post by heratech on 2009-04-27
In regards to the saving xorg from nvidia settings program problem: are you doing sudo nvidia-settings?

---

### Post by heratech on 2009-04-27
Also here is my xorg.conf. I have 2 video cards (only using 1) and 2 monitors. Maybe it will help you:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Mar 24 06:15:32 PST 2009
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer V173"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:7:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-04-27
Well, with SLI set up you need to designate the primary video card by inserting the bus ID in the device section of the xorg.conf file. So if this holds true I'd try BusID    "02:00:00" in the device section below the driver line. This would designate the Quadro card, use the other BusID if you want the other card.
I have no clue how to use 2 cards & 2 monitors, since they are changing everything in the way X is configured. the deal with the busID just started w/ intrepid.

---

### Post by berlinbrown on 2009-04-27
I am assuming the other posters configuration works.  Mine is in the original post and I can't change the graphics card.  I tried this configuration (some parts may be missing) but the card doesn't recognize this and pushes me to low graphics mode.  I am in low graphics mode now.

Section "Screen"
        Identifier          "Default Screen"
        Monitor             "Configured Monitor"
        Device              "Videocard1"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection


Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce PCX 5300"
    BusID          "PCI:2:0:0"
EndSection

---

### Post by dagrump on 2009-04-27
I had to double check mine is as I listed.
BusID      "02:00:00"
But, mine is a SLI set up, I'm not sure if the PCI in there will help or hinder.

---

