---
title: "20.04 issues"
date: 2020-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Phil Binner on 2020-11-13
I think I'm about to revert to 18.04 on my main machine.  I already had to do it on my Media machine.  The main problem is with connecting to my NAS, but there are other problems, and although there is lots of help available from this forum the amount of time required to chase down solutions makes using Ubuntu difficult.

The main issue is with support for Samba.  I upgraded to 20.04, and suddenly I couldn't connect to my NAS.  I went through solutions on this forum and discovered that support for Samba has been withdrawn.  I got help, and after re-installing several packages, editing fstab and smb.conf (after I'd re-created it) and a few other things, I finally got a grudging connection to the NAS. It was only grudging though. It takes  about a minute after each restart and goes through a series of errors before eventually getting there.  When I got connection on my main machine I thought I'd sorted it and, unfortunately, updated my media machine before I'd discovered the restart problems.  As with the main machine, I could connect but never very well.  I never did manage to connect Kodi.  My media machine is responsible for my Amazon Prime and Netflix accounts, and also for my personal video and music collections, so access to the NAS is essential.  I had to abandon 20.04 and go back to 18.04.

There are other problems too; nothing extreme and nothing I couldn't work through with help, but overall I think I'm going back. This is a shame.  What do you guys think about it.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-11-13
Your original post was moved to a chat forum because it did not deal with a specific technical issue. That post is [located here]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2453614") and has already generated responses. Please do no duplicate post as this causes confusion for those trying to help and dilutes community effort.

*Thread closed*.

---

