---
title: "3.8.0-31-generic stops responding"
date: 2013-10-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Macamba on 2013-10-04
I had to install Linux again. I used the Linux Live CD 12.0.2 desktop amd 64 iso, but there was a newer version (12.04.3 LTS ) downloaded. Later I had problems with my sound, so someone suggested I download the latest kernel.
```

sudo apt-get install linux-generic-lts-raring xserver-xorg-lts-raring
```

Now I observe regular crashes of my graphics environment (once a day), and quite often (also once a day?) that my system freezes. I can not go to another window (Alt-Tab), or close the running program. The only thing I see happening is occasional HD activity. The last program that stopped responding was the Document Viewer in which I read a pdf document I opened from a mail received by Thunderbird. If memory serves I also had a problem while looking to a playing CD (mp3) in Amarok. 

Anyone know what to do to the system freezes?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-10-04
I am running Xubuntu 12.04.2, but fully updated now to 12.04.3, though unless I do so manually, I do not have the 3.8.0 kernel; I'm still on 3.5.0-41.

I tried the 3.8.0 kernel but it gave me a few graphic glitches in plymouth at boot time, so I removed it just in case it had any other problems that I could do without, and I stuck with 3.5.0, which performs faultlessly.  You might like to try the 3.5.0 yourself and choose that at the grub menu, and see if it is any better for your system; if so you can probably remove the 3.8.0 versions and stay at 3.5.0 as I have.

If that is a possibility for you I think you will need to remove all the 3.8.0 kernels or the system will keep trying to update to the newest 3.8.0 version, and the machine will then boot to that by default.

---

### Post by Macamba on 2013-10-07
I had 3.5.0-40-generic installed, but had [intermittent sound problems]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2176609"). I was advised to install "the latest kernel that comes with Precise". 

So do I need to choose between a crashing kernel (3.8.0-31) and intermittent sound problems (3.5.0-41 minus 1)?

Edit: when I want to revert, how should I accomplish that. Searched but did not found an answer.

---

### Post by Macamba on 2013-10-11
I found it. For future reference:
```

sudo apt-get install linux-image-3.5.0-41-generic -sV
apt-get autoremove

```

And of course you can look in your boot menu whether old kernels are available. You can then use tools like 'Grub Customizer' to change the order of booting.

---

