---
title: "10.10 Wireless keeps dying"
date: 2010-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wakeupthesun on 2010-11-29
alright so this didn't happen right away but I've been using 10.10 about since it came out. Just today my wireless has been crashing. I was torrenting an .iso ubuntu livecd and my internet just randomly went down. It still worked on my Iphone's wifi and Ubuntu said I still had 100% connection. I rebooted and it worked, and soon crashed again. I went into windows 7 (bleh) and Torrented the whole .iso without a hitch. Therefore I assume that it's a software problem and not a hardware problem. 

I'm sure there are some printouts you guys would like but I don't remember the commands for them. Let me know what other info I can get you and hopefully we can get this fixed. I don't want to have to go back to windows :\

---

### Post by wakeupthesun on 2010-11-30
Bump still happening.

Using ralink rt2800 chipset. I tried using Ndiswrapper and that didn't work. The XP 64 bit version of the driver would find networks but was unable to connect. The Vista and 7 drivers didn't even find networks. I just reverted to the default by running:

```
sudo modprobe rt2860sta
```

Anyways my wireless still drops even though it says it is still connected. Anyone know what to do?

---

### Post by wakeupthesun on 2010-12-01
Bump..Nobody has any idea?

---

### Post by Spyderkid on 2010-12-01
I know this isn't of the greatest help but I've been your not getting many replies so....

If you've made the driver for the wireless try re-compiling it

Also run *lsusb* look for the ID and search into google my [ID] has stopped working, you might find some usefull stuff.

---

### Post by wakeupthesun on 2010-12-01
Trust me I've looked. I wasn't aware you had to compile a driver for ndiswrapper. Also I wouldn't know how to go about updating the one that comes stock with 10.10.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-12-01
you have to use the xp driver with ndiswrapper, other windows drivers will not work

try
```

rfkill unblock all

```you might have blocks (for some reason or another) on your wireless.

Also there might be driver conflicts (quite prevalent with ralink) do
```

lsmod | grep -i rt

```if there are other drivers than rt860sta you will need to blacklist them
[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/maverick/man5/shorewall-blacklist.5.html]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/hardy/man5/shorewall-blacklist.5.html")

---

### Post by NCLI on 2010-12-01
If the guys here don't solve your problem, I'd suggest posting in the Networking subforum instead. Those guys are more specialized at solving networking issues.

---

### Post by wakeupthesun on 2010-12-01
Alright so I managed to make and install the driver off the ralink website. I'm not sure if it's even a newer driver but Its worth a shot. I also updated the firmware .bin too, but that's also a toss up. 

I think I did it correctly because my wireless still works, but only god knows if it will keep working.

@Hippytaff I already did the blacklist thing and that didn't help. I left them in though because they didn't hurt anything. I'll try your other advice too if this "new" driver doesn't help.

@NCLI I'll keep that in mind. Thanks for the suggestion ;)

Edit: I ran that command and here is what it posted:
```
wakeupthesun@razer1158:~$ lsmod | grep -i rt
parport_pc             30086  0 
rt2860sta             559618  1 
crc_ccitt               1699  1 rt2860sta
parport                37032  3 parport_pc,ppdev,lp

```

PS: Wireless still works...atm

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-12-02
Glad it's working for the time being...keep us posted :-)

---

