---
title: "chmod not working"
date: 2011-09-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Geffers on 2011-09-11
Trying to practice with grub2 I have followed instructions at [http://tinyurl.com/688z5n7](http://tinyurl.com/688z5n7) to create a bootable grub2 USB stick.

For some reason I cannot chmod the permissions on the grub.cfg file as suggested in the instructions.

I have tried that specific command (changing the filepath of course), tried the specific file rather than directory.

I've tried aug+ rather than the numbers, done sudo and sudo into su mode as well as Nautilus from root but the damned file always remains USER RW

No error messages are given for any entered command.

Any suggestions appreciated.

Geffers

---

### Post by Absol on 2011-09-11
could it be that the filesystem is ntfs? i didnt read the link but once i had that problem of chmod not working then i realized i was trying to change a file in an ntfs partition. The same goes for FAT-32

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-11
if ```
sudo chmod +x filename
```

not giving means i know one possibility as our friend Absol said.
to run any script from the ntfs or fat , after moving to that directory 

```
sh ./script.sh
```

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2011-09-11
Why do you want to change the permissions? I wouldn't recommend you to do it.

You can edit the files as root (with sudo), if yo really need to, but grub.cfg is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub. You shouldn't edit it manually.

What exactly are you trying to accomplish?

You may want to check out the community documentation: [uhelp]community/Grub2[/uhelp]

[drs305]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=223945") also has some good grub2 guides. Check out his signature. ;)

---

### Post by Geffers on 2011-09-12
> **Absol said:**
> could it be that the filesystem is ntfs? i didnt read the link but once i had that problem of chmod not working then i realized i was trying to change a file in an ntfs partition. The same goes for FAT-32

It is a FAT32 formatted disk so that may well be the case, thanks for tip.

Geffers

---

### Post by Geffers on 2011-09-12
> **sisco311 said:**
> Why do you want to change the permissions? I wouldn't recommend you to do it.



The link I gave in my original post explains various installations of grub, one was a grub installation on a bootable USB disk mainly for playing with grub and getting used the the functions, hence the link's suggestion to open up the permissions of grub.cfg

I know the general advice is not to edit this file directly but as mentioned it is to play with grub without affecting my OS.

geffers

---

