---
title: "DVD-ROM doesn't work?"
date: 2008-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by inaba12 on 2008-04-20
Hello, I was running gutsy, and everything was working just fine. But I don't know what got me, so I decided to install hardy heron, but after that, some CD (and DVD) aren't working anymore. When I try to mount them this what the system tells me:

"mount: block device /dev/scd0 is write protected, 
mounting read-only mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/scd0,  missing codepage or helper program, or other error     In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try  dmesg | tail or so"

This is my fstab: 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=923f1463-90df-4679-8a9c-39feed532039 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=4E85D252775296B5 /media/sda3 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb2 :
UUID=13EB4E91A0A1E101 /media/sdb2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb4 :
UUID=706958DC62142218 /media/sdb4 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=58AB6775567D19E9 /media/sdb5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_CA.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=474bf68a-d13b-4013-af1f-0a8d72794749 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 ro,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0

And by the way, when I change hdc with scd0, the system respond that there is an invalib mount option.

Please I really need you on this, I don't know to which saints pray. And I don't want to reformat my hard drive.
Thank you for your answer.

---

### Post by inaba12 on 2008-04-22
Nobody know the solution?

---

### Post by SunnyRabbiera on 2008-04-22
Well what version of hardy did you pop on?
rmember that even the release canidate version of hardy is not really meant to be an actual install.
wait until hardy comes out of RC and goes official.
you may want to back up your files and wait till hardy comes out on Thursday.

---

### Post by Stenico on 2008-04-23
Bump.

Get "Can't read from source" error when I try to play a DVD using the Hardy Heron Beta. Also my audio was totally borked.

Please say these issues are fixed in the RC, otherwise (if the release isn't pulled until this issues are fixed) major damage is going to be done to the image of Ubuntu on the desktop..

Bug report here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/221028](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/221028)

---

### Post by Stenico on 2008-04-24
Works for me now after following the steps under System->Help and Support for playing DVDs

This involves running the shell script. Would be nicer if totem could just prompt to activate DVD playback as it does for restricted codecs..

---

