---
title: "./wmware-install.pl"
date: 2007-06-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Secession on 2007-06-13
In Debian Etch ./wmware-install.pl worked when I tried to install VMWare.  I've been sniffing around the forums and either I'm looking in the wrong place or it's not there.  I wouldn't even mind one of those answers that's just a link to another thread if someone knows where it is.  I tried sudo ./wmware-install.pl but it just keeps saying command not found.  What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by Gannin on 2007-06-13
A good guide to getting VMware installed on Feisty, start to finish, is here:

[http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_fawn_vmware_server_howto](http://www.howtoforge.com/ubuntu_feisty_fawn_vmware_server_howto)

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-06-13
I can not find any smart link but if I remember correctly you have to be in vmware-distrib(or something similar)and from there run that command.This is for Vmware workstation because you have server in synaptic.

---

### Post by Secession on 2007-06-13
Same problem:

```
secession@laptop:~/Desktop$ tar -xzf VMware-server-1.0.3-44356.tar.gz
secession@laptop:~/Desktop$ ls
Linux  vmware-any-any-update109.tar.gz  VMware-server-1.0.3-44356.tar.gz  vmware-server-distrib
secession@laptop:~/Desktop$ cd vmware-server-distrib
secession@laptop:~/Desktop/vmware-server-distrib$ sudo vmware-install.pl
Password:
sudo: vmware-install.pl: command not found
secession@laptop:~/Desktop/vmware-server-distrib$ ls
bin  doc  etc  FILES  installer  lib  man  sbin  vmware-install.pl  vmware-vix
secession@laptop:~/Desktop/vmware-server-distrib$ 
```

It's there, I can see it.  Why won't it run?

Can I run Terminal as Root so I don't have to sudo?

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-06-13
```
secession@laptop:~/Desktop/vmware-server-distrib$./vmware-install.pl
```

---

### Post by Secession on 2007-06-14
I had to ```
sudo ./vmware-install.pl
```

Then it complained about not having xinetd so I had to apt-get that.
Then I had to run /usr/bin/vmware-config.pl
Finally I ended up with```
The configuration of VMware Server 1.0.3 build-44356 for Linux for this running
kernel completed successfully.
```

Sounds good to me.  Thanks for all your help.

Can you explain why /usr/bin/vmware-config.pl is OK but vmware-install.pl isn't?  Does it have to have a / at the beginning?

---

### Post by Gannin on 2007-06-14
In that situation, "vmware-install.pl" isn't in the system path, it's only in that directory, so when you run it, you have to specify its location by typing "./" first.  However, "vmware-config.pl" gets installed into the system path, so it's in the system path, so it simply can be ran by typing its name, instead of having to specficy its exact location.

---

### Post by Secession on 2007-06-15
I think I've got it:

/usr/bin/vmware-config.pl tells the system the full path
vmware-config.pl should be in one of the folders in the system path (like the PATH command in DOS?)
./vmware-config.pl is to distinguish it from the other two, 'dot' being 'this folder'.

In DOS the last two are the same, that's what confused me.

---

### Post by Gannin on 2007-06-15
Yes, you have it now.

---

