---
title: "10.10 A process is starting over and over again."
date: 2010-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KingFeckless on 2010-10-19
Not even sure how to describe this, or how to search for already existing postings. I upgraded to Maverick Meerkat yesterday and installed quite a few programs. At some point I noticed that the loading animation won't stop. My taskbar was on autohide, and when I opened it, I see that there is apparently an infinite number of processes starting. When I looked into the systemmonitor I can see that these processes have no name and appear and disappear. Sometimes you can see the icon and it seems to be a filebrowser, which I can not open.

Now I am not even sure how to proceed any further.

I hope someone can help. Also I am a bit of a newbie. The last programs I installed (I uninstalled them by now without a positive result) was elegant gnome and the gtk-sunlight wallpaper.

I attached 2 screenshots, and I am not even sure how much they help.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by KingFeckless on 2010-10-19
Made another screenshot, it really seems to be a file browser. Not sure why it is starting all over again and again and again. What did I do.....dammit.

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-10-19
Have you restarted since you first encountered this problem? Does the problem occur immediately after you log in? If so, perhaps you should look in your start-up applications.

Also, if you add the "window selector" applet to your gnome panel, you should be able to see the programs when you click on the applet (as they'll be listed in a vertical column).

---

### Post by KingFeckless on 2010-10-19
This still happens after a restart and it happens immediately after login in. I just checked the start-up folder and doesn't find anything suspicious. The windows selector does not display those windows, strangely so. I assume they open and close instantly.

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-10-19
In system monitor, when you hover your cursor over one of these nameless processes, does a tooltip pop up with some text? I'm just trying to think of ways to identify which process is causing the problem.

---

### Post by KingFeckless on 2010-10-19
It is empty. The box appears, but there is no text in it.

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-10-19
Okay, I'm going to throw a few ideas out there. Feel free to try them but I'm rather puzzled about this issue, so hopefully someone else will chime in.

[LIST]
[*] In system monitor, go to "view" and check "dependencies". Perhaps this might give a clue to the unnamed processes.
[*] Disable anything in startup applications that you can safely disable (i.e. you know what it is and it's not necessary). Might help to track down the issue.
[*] Go to System > Preference > Remote Desktop and uncheck allowing others to connect remotely. Some people on the forums describe a vaguely similar issue. I doubt this is it but it couldn't hurt.
[/list]

Sorry I can't be of more help.

---

### Post by KingFeckless on 2010-10-19
I unclicked everything in the startup list and still get this. After I logged in, I could hover over one of the processes a bit. It says "Start File Manager" and has a folder icon with a mouse arrow on it.

There seem to be no dependencies and the "allowing others to connect" was already unchecked....confused I am.

I am still thankful for answering.

Is there an easy way to reinstall Meerkat (a fresh start?)

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-10-19
Sounds like somehow nautilus is causing the problem. Does running "sudo killall nautilus" in terminal nuke the processes?

Reinstalling is not that hard, no, depending on how much you've done to your setup already. Just backup your home folder (it's got all your settings and documents) on an external drive, reinstall, and copy your home folder back. Assuming it's not some weird setting specific to your user account, the problem would then go away. Speaking of which, do you still experience this issue when you log into the guest account?

---

### Post by KingFeckless on 2010-10-19
Ha, that was it. Nuking Nautilus helped. All gone. Now how to fix nautilus? Uninstall -> Reinstall?

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-10-19
Uninstalling and reinstalling nautilus might fix it (you may need to do a "complete removal" in synaptic to wipe the settings too), and might not break your install. It looks like only a few non-critical things actually depend on nautilus. Do note what they are so you can reinstall them. There's also just a reinstall option in Synaptic, but I don't think that will do the trick (worth a try).

(I should have looked at that last screenshot of yours. You were right about it being the file browser.)

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-10-19
Also, you didn't happen to install "nautilus-elementary" did you? I see [http://ircanswers.com/ubuntu1/475477/greets-everyone-kubuntu-bootarg-followed#message_4415128]("http://ircanswers.com/ubuntu1/475477/greets-everyone-kubuntu-bootarg-followed#message_4415128") that it caused the same problem for someone else. Really anything you installed that affects nautilus is suspect.

---

### Post by KingFeckless on 2010-10-20
I tried to reinstall but it didn't work.
 
After I learned it was Nautilus I checked the sites I looked at on Monday and now looking at your post, of course "nautilus elementary" was in that list ( [http://www.techdrivein.com/2010/10/9-things-i-did-after-installing-brand.html](http://www.techdrivein.com/2010/10/9-things-i-did-after-installing-brand.html) ).
 
If it is not that, I assume it is Gloobus. Will have to uninstall those when I am back at home. 
 
Thanks again.
 
(Ah I see, you seem to be an active redditor as well)
 
***Secret Reddit Handshake***

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-10-20
Last bits of info that I've found on this:
An older bug that someone had like this: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/358438](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/358438)

A similar thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1510116](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1510116), with a solution: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9668140&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9668140&postcount=11)

There are a lot of blog posts out there about things you can do to customize you Ubuntu install. Many of them will break your system. Use them sparingly.

(Yes, I have stalked you across the web. Apparently not very stealthily.)

---

### Post by KingFeckless on 2010-10-20
And that does the trick uninstalling via

[FONT=monospace]sudo ppa-purge ppa:am-monkeyd/nautilus-elementary-ppa

Worked. Solved!
[/FONT]

---

