---
title: "18.04LTS Apache2 PHP7.2 includes"
date: 2020-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-04
New "clean" installation as subject; set up same as my 16.04LTS server except PHP7.0
Running app I get this error msg
```

**Fatal error: require_once(): Failed opening required 'error_handler_2020.includes.php' (include_path='.:/usr/share/php') in [B]/var/www/html/applications/DocumentLocations/display_object_location.php on line [B]5**[/B][/B]

```
the include path shown in the error msg is different from the one in the /etc/php/7.2/apache2/php.ini
```

include_path='.:usr/share/php:/var/www/html/applications/include_files'

```
which shows the correct location of the include files
Any suggestions on where to start looking
Thanks

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-04
What do you get when you run "ls /usr/share/php*"?  Where is the file error_handler_2020.includes.php actually located?

The presence or absence of that leading slash is very important.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-04
ls /usr/share/php* 
```

 ls /usr/share/php*
/usr/share/php7.2-common:
common


/usr/share/php7.2-json:
json


/usr/share/php7.2-opcache:
opcache


/usr/share/php7.2-readline:
readline

```

the file [COLOR=#000000] file error_handler_2020.includes.php is in
/var/www/html/applications/include_files

here is the line in php.ini
[/COLOR]```

include_path = ".:/usr/share/php:/var/www/html/applications/include_files"

```

I ran a test page
```

<?php
 $x =  set_include_path ("/var/www/html/applications/php_includes"  );
echo "<p>old path: $x</p>";
$y = set_include_path ("/usr/share/php");
echo "<p>new path: $y</p>";
die;
?>

```
result 
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]old path: .:/usr/share/php[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]new path: /var/www/html/applications/php_includes
So it seems the line in php.ini is being ignored[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-05
I long ago gave up using these structures for includes.  Each site I build has its own separate directory with the included files in subdirectories (common, handlers, content).  For instance,

```

<?php
$includes="/path/to/main/includes/directory/";
$common=$includes."common/";
$handlers=$includes."handlers/";
$content=$includes."content/";

[...]
include($common."init.php");
include($handlers."myhander.php");
[etc.]

```

As long as the Apache user, "apache2", has read privileges on those directories, everything works fine.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-05
I use that structure so can have 1 set of includes for all the different apps on the site and I can move the app from one server to a another without changing anything. 
It worked fine with 16.04lts but as noted it fails under 18.04LTS. Seems like something must have changed.
Guess I'll give up on 18.04 until I can change all the PHP code like you suggest

Thanks for the help
Frank

---

### Post by sdsurfer on 2020-07-06
Are you sure that is the correct php.ini? (phinfo() will tell you so.)

Not sure why it's acting up, but you can add the directory to your include path or copy the files to where it's looking for them. That's not the greatest solution as a future update make break it, but it will get you through.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-06
> **sdsurfer said:**
> Are you sure that is the correct php.ini? (phinfo() will tell you so.)
There are two php.ini files in Ubuntu.  One resides in /etc/php/[version]/cli and the other in /etc/php/[version]/apache2.  It's the latter php.ini file that controls the behavior of the module in Apache.  The cli files apply to cases where php is run from the command prompt, e.g.,
```
php /path/to/some/script.php
```

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-06
I changed /etc/php/7.2/apache2/php.ini to save_php.ini
I inadvertently deleted /etc/php/7.2/cli/php.ini

I ran sudo find / -iname php.ini 2>/dev/nullno results
reran with a change to make sure i had it right sudo find / -iname save_php.ini 2>/dev/null
found

rebooted.

Apache2 still runs and running below in a php file
$x =  set_include_path ("/var/www/html/applications/include_files"  );
returns the original include_path ".:/usr/share/php"

where else can it be getting its settings?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-06
If there is no .../apache2/php.ini, then the installation will use its defaults. They are specified in php.ini.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-06
okay, I'm confused :-) -
If there are no physical php.ini files (as in my case) then there are core php settings that are not visible to the user (me) that the system uses. The physical ini's are to override the core settings
Is that correct?
Thanks for your time

P.S.
I've ticked the box to be notified by email but since the first reply its no longer happening. Should I report it somewhere

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-07
Yes. Please read the php.ini file carefully. It presents the defaults near the beginning.

```

;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;
; Quick Reference ;
;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;
; The following are all the settings which are different in either the production
; or development versions of the INIs with respect to PHP's default behavior.
; Please see the actual settings later in the document for more details as to why
; we recommend these changes in PHP's behavior.

; display_errors
;   Default Value: On
;   Development Value: On
;   Production Value: Off

; display_startup_errors
;   Default Value: Off
;   Development Value: On
;   Production Value: Off

; error_reporting
;   Default Value: E_ALL & ~E_NOTICE & ~E_STRICT & ~E_DEPRECATED
;   Development Value: E_ALL
;   Production Value: E_ALL & ~E_DEPRECATED & ~E_STRICT

[etc.]

```

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-07-07
okay, thanks. I've deleted php and starting over

---

