---
title: "1080p Vizio Razor VM230XVT TV stuck at 800x600 resolution"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joem282 on 2011-05-01
Hello all,

First off, I am completely new to Ubuntu or any Linux based OS whatsoever, so excuse me if I sound retarded. I recently installed Xubuntu to an old laptop of mine and everything went fine except for the fact that I had to install a WiFi driver; I liked Xubuntu so much that I decided to go ahead and dual boot Ubuntu on my WIndows 7 machine. After I installed Ubuntu, I realized that I was stuck in 800x600 resolution and I was unable to run the resolution in 1920x1080 like I should be able to. I tried to uninstall and reinstall Ubuntu and I had the same thing happen. Most of the other help forums I had searched claimed that I needed to check my Xorg Config, but I don't know how to do that. Also, I get a "too many connections" message every time I start in Ubuntu; could this possibly be related? Any help would be much appreciated. 

Thanks

System Specs: 
AMD Phenom II X6 1100t 3.3Ghz Hex Core CPU
Nvidia Palit 560ti  2gb GPU
Hitachi 7200 RPM 64mb cache 2tb HDD
Lite-On 24x Light Scribe DVD burner
Asus M4A89GTD USB Pro Motherboard  
Earthtec 650 watt 80+ Gold PSU

Quick update: Ubuntu will not let me use the "extra visual effects" option for my desktop appearance. It stars searching for a driver then doesn't let me use the enhanced visuals. This leads me to believe that it's a driver issue. How can I tell which driver I am using in Ubuntu????

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-05-01
System/Administration/Hardware Drivers might clarify.

However, the GTX 560 is quite recent. It might not have a proprietary driver.

Have you run System/Preferences/Monitors? What version of Ubuntu?

---

### Post by joem282 on 2011-05-01
> **gordintoronto said:**
> System/Administration/Hardware Drivers might clarify.

However, the GTX 560 is quite recent. It might not have a proprietary driver.

Have you run System/Preferences/Monitors? What version of Ubuntu?

I did some checking around the Internet and I have tried several different methods to try and resolve this issue to no avail. I am using the 270.41 drivers. I am using Ubuntu 10.10. When I run the system presences/monitors, I get the error "It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?" I press okay and then the Nvidia-settings states "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server." 

As of now, I have reset the x server, created a new xconfig file by entering "sudo nvidia-xconfig", I have uninstalled/reinstalled the drivers and I have tried running it on an HDMI instead of a VGA (when I do that, I get a blue screen with a "no signal" message. Is there some way to edit the xconfig file to fix this?  Also, Ubuntu now say it is running in low graphics mode. My xorg.conf file is as follows:

  	 	 	 	pre { font-family: "Liberation Serif"; }p { margin-bottom: 0.08in; }  # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.06  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-08.nvidia.com)  Mon Apr 18 15:14:00 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

