---
title: "no /boot/grub/menu.lst - how to change default boot?"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 7eieio on 2011-05-01
Hello,

I have Xubuntu Xfce 4 installed on a Dell laptop with Windows.  I would like to either change the default boot OS, or eliminate the timeout (do nothing until I tell it to).

All of the advice I find on this subject says to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst, however, that file does not exist on my system.

Can anyone tell me what plan B is?

Thanks,

Allasso

---

### Post by decrepit on 2011-05-01
Not familiar with Xfce 4, but if you haven't got menu.lst, it's probably because you have the new grub2 not old grub1.

There's a grub2 editor you can download, I've forgotten the name of now, try a search for editing grub2, there's been a few threads on the topic.

---

### Post by kmkmahesh on 2011-05-01
i not perfect but i am thinking the below

> sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg

then u will find the 

> #
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"

from the top of that file edit the value if the option is 2 

> set default="1"
from the top of that file edit the value if the option is 3 

> set default="2"
from the top of that file edit the value if the option is 4 

> set default="3"

but wait for the experts advice

---

### Post by 7eieio on 2011-05-01
> **decrepit said:**
> Not familiar with Xfce 4, but if you haven't got menu.lst, it's probably because you have the new grub2 not old grub1.

There's a grub2 editor you can download, I've forgotten the name of now, try a search for editing grub2, there's been a few threads on the topic.

Great, thanks for getting me on the right track.  I am finding this page helpful:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

And yes, menu.lst has been replaced by grub.cfg.  But usually when I read:

DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE

I figure there is a good reason (which is explained in the link above)

Thanks all.

Allasso

---

### Post by 7eieio on 2011-05-01
The preferred method is to edit /etc/default/grub.  Then run sudo update-grub.

UPDATE:

That is for default OS, other configuration involves editing other files.

see also,

[http://linuxers.org/howto/how-configure-grub2-ubuntu-910](http://linuxers.org/howto/how-configure-grub2-ubuntu-910)

---

