---
title: "17.04 got freezed and after REISUB lead me into the grub prompt"
date: 2017-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by khoriam on 2017-11-03
Hello there, installed a fresh version of xubuntu 17.04. Everything was fine so far, created a backup with timeshift. Then, after installing some essential for my living programms (telegram, sublimetext3, skype, conky, f.lux, google chrome and so, can tell more if needed) it got freezed during the skype echo test call. Like, the desktop doesn't respong, the voice of skype echo is stuttering, I can move mouse and it also stutters. After a magic word REISUB, instead of grub menu I got a grub prompt. What do I do to restore grub and dig out a solution to this freezing thing? It follows me for a long time, from every ubuntu distro which is older than 14.04.
Using a laptop, if needed - will provide additional info. Thanks for paying attention to my matter.

---

### Post by khoriam on 2017-11-03
Loaded liveCD with ubuntu. GParted shows the partition with installed 17.04 formatted as UNKNOWN. It also got freezed during the livecd session, bios time was reseted to utc.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-11-03
May be best to see details, you can run from your Ubuntu live installer or any working install, use ppa version not older Boot-Repair ISO:
Post the link to the Create BootInfo summary report. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info) and:
[https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/](https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair/home/Home/)

If ext4, it should just need e2fsck.

       
 To see all the ext4 partitions
sudo parted -l
#From liveDVD/Flash so everything is unmounted,swap off if necessary, change example shown with partition sdb1 to your partition(s)
#e2fsck is used to check the ext2/ext3/ext4 family of file systems. -p trys fixes where response not required
sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdb1
#if errors: -y auto answers yes for fixes needing response, also see man e2fsck
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sdb1

---

