---
title: "11.10 Update (not upgrade) broke networking"
date: 2011-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JohnE1 on 2011-10-21
I successfully upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10 and networking was working okay. 

The very first Software Update I ran left the system with broken networking. When I right-click on the network icon on the panel and select: "Connection Information", a message window displays the following warning:

"Error displaying connection information:

No valid active connections found!"

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-10-21
Click on network icon and edit connections,Maybe there you can enable your network again.

---

### Post by JohnE1 on 2011-10-21
Nope, there's nothing in there to enable the connections. The network icon has a check mark next to Enabled connection. I've tried Disabling and RE-enabling the connection and still no active connections are found.

I've verified that this is an Ubuntu issue of some sort (misconfigured or missing software most likely?!) by booting the PC from another O/S loaded from external hard drive connected via USB.

---

### Post by DavidBiesack on 2012-01-04
> **JohnE1 said:**
> I successfully upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10 and networking was working okay. 

The very first Software Update I ran left the system with broken networking. 

I have the same problem, and what's worse is my home directory is on a network drive (I do have a local userid as a fallback).

On bootup, the Ubuntu Studio logo spins, trying to connect to the network, then says "Waiting up to 60 seconds more for network configuration...". then "Booting system without full network configuration..." and then hangs there;
I think it is the same as [bug 856810]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lightdm/+bug/856810") although I switched from lightdm to gdm.

I then tried the steps toclear the /var/run/dbus folder's content and fix my /var/run -> /run and /var/lock -> /run/lock as described in [bug 811441]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/+bug/811441")
and this fixed the problem - network works fine now; I can log in

---

