---
title: "8.04's effect on Gutsy?"
date: 2008-03-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LeoSolaris on 2008-03-18
As with most everyone else, I am running Gutsy. I have not yet gone through a release yet, so I would like to know what happens if I upgrade to 8.04 next month? Will it 'intelligently' upgrade, or will it completely reset my system? I have a number of rather custom'ed effects that I worked hard to get just right, and I do not want to lose them. Thinks like my Grub menu.lst, my compiz settings, and all of the many other tweaks that I have done to make the system look nice, as well as actually work. (like a tweak in terminal to get my built-in mic working.)

I get the feeling that it is going to overide all of my settings, etc, and I am leary about doing a full upgrade.

Yep, y'all can probibly easily spot the newb in me, fretting about something like this.

Leo

---

### Post by tubasoldier on 2008-03-18
Your settings should remain in tact. That does not mean that there won't be bumps in the road. I have yet to see an ugrade where the forums are not flooded with posts about things no longer working. It is acutally rather comical. As long as your hardware is well supported you shouldn't have any issues. Just wait a few weeks, do your research ahead of time, and cross your fingers and hope for the best.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-03-18
It will *attempt* to upgrade intelligently. Many people have had completely seamless experiences, while others have found themselves with a semi-functional system that requires a lot of fixing. 

I've always just reinstalled, as that is usually a very pain-free way of doing things. If you'd rather not do that, my advice would be to go ahead and run the upgrade, but still *be prepared* to reinstall if necessary. Meaning that either way, you should back up your data as well as any and all custom configuration files you don't wish to lose.

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-03-18
My experience with ubuntu upgrade has been positive. I upgraded from dapper -> edgy -> feisty. (gutsy is on a vbox now)
Expect some bumps if you have 3rd party repositories (other than main, universe, multiverse, non-free, medibuntu, backports) in /etc/apt/sources.list. I advice you remove the packages installed from external repositories before you do an upgrade.

---

### Post by LeoSolaris on 2008-03-18
Thanks guys! Then I will definitely wait to upgrade till I can either get my tiny NAS working or a portable HDD to clone a backup with. I have more than a few third party repos, so I will have to make a few uninstalls first. That's not really bad, atleast synaptic can organize them according to where they came from.

Atleast it is supposed to make an intelligent upgrade. That automaticly makes the upgrade process much easier than Windows. I still have nightmares about the upgrade between 98 and XP!

Leo

---

