---
title: "8.04 Froze now Fstab file is corrupt"
date: 2009-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by keithwoermke on 2009-06-01
I'm running a dual boot with Ubuntu 804 and Winxp.  Ubuntu froze and now I can't reboot into 8.04. The fstab file doesn't look right to me.  I don't know how to fix it.  Could you guys help me out?  This is my fstab file.
nionfs / unionfs rw 0 0
tmpfs /tmp tmpfs nosuid,nodev 0 0
/dev/sdb3 swap swap defaults 0 0

Another thing I don't understand is my /boot/grub/menu.lst  is not in the right place. It's on another partition. media/disk/menu.lst

# ## End Default Options ##

title        Ubuntu 8.04.2, kernel 2.6.24-23-generic
root        (hd1,0)
kernel        /vmlinuz-2.6.24-23-generic root=UUID=905d40a2-a87f-4587-b068-348f364d29d6 ro quiet splash
initrd        /initrd.img-2.6.24-23-generic
quiet

title        Ubuntu 8.04.2, kernel 2.6.24-23-generic (recovery mode)
root        (hd1,0)
kernel        /vmlinuz-2.6.24-23-generic root=UUID=905d40a2-a87f-4587-b068-348f364d29d6 ro single
initrd        /initrd.img-2.6.24-23-generic

title        Ubuntu 8.04.2, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
root        (hd1,0)
kernel        /vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=905d40a2-a87f-4587-b068-348f364d29d6 ro quiet splash
initrd        /initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic
quiet

title        Ubuntu 8.04.2, kernel 2.6.24-19-generic (recovery mode)
root        (hd1,0)
kernel        /vmlinuz-2.6.24-19-generic root=UUID=905d40a2-a87f-4587-b068-348f364d29d6 ro single
initrd        /initrd.img-2.6.24-19-generic

title        Ubuntu 8.04.2, memtest86+
root        (hd1,0)
kernel        /memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title        Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title        Microsoft Windows XP Professional
root        (hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader    +1
 
Here is fdisk -l
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x10aa10a9

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        1460    11727418+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            1461       14593   105490822+   f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5            1461        2555     8795556    b  W95 FAT32
/dev/sda6            2556       14593    96695203+   7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000a2920

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1          12       96358+  83  Linux
/dev/sdb2              13        3010    24081435   83  Linux
/dev/sdb3            3011        3134      996030   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdb4            3135       19457   131114497+  83  Linux

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-06-02
> This is my fstab file.
nionfs / unionfs rw 0 0
tmpfs /tmp tmpfs nosuid,nodev 0 0
/dev/sdb3 swap swap defaults 0 0

That is the fstab file of the Live CD.You have to mount your linux partition before you can access the data on it.Go to **Places > Computer** and double click on the /dev/sdb1 partition will mount it read only.If you need to write to the partition you will need root privileges.

> Another thing I don't understand is my /boot/grub/menu.lst is not in the right place. It's on another partition. media/disk/menu.lst

Again that is because it is mounted from the Live CD.

What error messages do you get when you try to boot ubuntu?
Do you get the grub boot menu?
Can you boot Windows XP?

---

### Post by keithwoermke on 2009-06-02
Hi plucky  Thank you so much for replying.  I get the grub boot menu and I can boot into xp no problems.  It will try to boot Ubuntu.  All I get is the orange bar going back and forth on the Ubuntu screen for about 5 minutes and it goes into initramfs   check root = bootarg cat/proc/cmdline  or missing modules, devices: cat /proc/ modules ls /dev
/dev/disk/by-uuid/.................. doesnt exit

I had ubuntu working great for months and all of a sudden when i plugged in a usb thumb drive it froze.   I had to shut dowm the computer with on off switch.  When I rebooted that is when all my troubles started.

---

### Post by Chronon on 2009-06-02
I suspect there's trouble with a changed/incorrect UUID for some reason.  You could see if this thread helps you: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1032601](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1032601)

---

### Post by keithwoermke on 2009-06-03
Hi  I tried what you suggested.  This is the output.
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo blkid
/dev/sda1: UUID="6200A3B700A39119" LABEL="OS" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda5: LABEL="LOCAL DISK" UUID="1F21-15E3" TYPE="vfat" 
/dev/sda6: UUID="6EDC0A22DC09E565" LABEL="LOCAL DISK" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sdb1: UUID="41f301a4-112a-4e6d-a5aa-46d1ce897503" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/sdb3: UUID="e4c15ed6-48d6-424f-93c0-751207ba01ed" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/loop0: TYPE="squashfs" 
Why don't I see sdb2 and sdb4 ?  sdb2 is my / and sdb4 is /home  Do I need to mount these 2 partitions within the Live CD and if so how do I do it?

Thankyou very much for dealing with this issue. Keith

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-06-03
> Why don't I see sdb2 and sdb4 ? sdb2 is my / and sdb4 is /home Do I need to mount these 2 partitions within the Live CD and if so how do I do it?

No they should be there unless there is a problem reading data off the partitions which is probably the reason you cannot boot Ubuntu.

From the Live CD open Partition Editor under **System > Administration** and see if gparted can see those partitions.If it can and they are unmounted,run a check on the partitions from within gparted.

If not you should open a terminal and run fsck on the partitions ```
sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdbX
``` change sdbX to your partitions number and see what it finds

Good Luck

---

### Post by keithwoermke on 2009-06-03
I checked in gparted and it sees sdb2 and sdb4.  It comes with a warning that it cannot detect the filesystem, the file system may be damaged, the file system is unknown to gparted and there is no file system available (unformatted)  I ran the code for the 2 partitions.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdb2
e2fsck: Bad magic number in super-block while trying to open /dev/sdb2
/dev/sdb2: 
The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2
filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2
filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock
is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
    e2fsck -b 8193 <device>

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sdb4
e2fsck: Bad magic number in super-block while trying to open /dev/sdb4
/dev/sdb4: 
The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2
filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2
filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock
is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
    e2fsck -b 8193 <device>

Does this mean anything to you?
Thanks Keith

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-06-04
You could try what the error message said,to try an alternative superblock.
```
sudo mke2fs -n /dev/sdb1
``` should list alternative superblocks for sdb1 partition and then ```
sudo e2fsck -b <alt superblk>
``` should use the alternative.

Never had a problem with a superblock,so this is all speculation on my part.But as you can't use the partition,I think it is worth a try.


Good Luck

---

### Post by keithwoermke on 2009-06-04
I tried the code
sudo mke2fs -n /dev/sdb1
It didn't work.  sudo mke command not  found  

Thanks

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-06-04
> **keithwoermke said:**
> I tried the code
sudo mke2fs -n /dev/sdb1
It didn't work.  sudo mke command not  found  

Thanks

That is a legitimate command.

What does ```
man mke2fs
``` give you.

This is what that command gives on my /dev/sda8 partition
```
sudo mke2fs -n /dev/sda8
mke2fs 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
Filesystem label=
OS type: Linux
Block size=4096 (log=2)
Fragment size=4096 (log=2)
1534080 inodes, 6134814 blocks
306740 blocks (5.00%) reserved for the super user
First data block=0
Maximum filesystem blocks=0
188 block groups
32768 blocks per group, 32768 fragments per group
8160 inodes per group
Superblock backups stored on blocks: 
	32768, 98304, 163840, 229376, 294912, 819200, 884736, 1605632, 2654208, 4096000
```

Good Luck

---

### Post by keithwoermke on 2009-06-07
I don't know what I did wrong but I tried that command again mke2fs -n /dev/sdb2 and sdb4 and this is what I got.
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mke2fs -n /dev/sdb2
mke2fs 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
Filesystem label=
OS type: Linux
Block size=4096 (log=2)
Fragment size=4096 (log=2)
1507328 inodes, 6020358 blocks
301017 blocks (5.00%) reserved for the super user
First data block=0
Maximum filesystem blocks=0
184 block groups
32768 blocks per group, 32768 fragments per group
8192 inodes per group
Superblock backups stored on blocks: 
    32768, 98304, 163840, 229376, 294912, 819200, 884736, 1605632, 2654208, 
    4096000

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mke2fs -n /dev/sdb4
mke2fs 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
Filesystem label=
OS type: Linux
Block size=4096 (log=2)
Fragment size=4096 (log=2)
8200192 inodes, 32778624 blocks
1638931 blocks (5.00%) reserved for the super user
First data block=0
Maximum filesystem blocks=0
1001 block groups
32768 blocks per group, 32768 fragments per group
8192 inodes per group
Superblock backups stored on blocks: 
    32768, 98304, 163840, 229376, 294912, 819200, 884736, 1605632, 2654208, 
    4096000, 7962624, 11239424, 20480000, 23887872

``` I then ran code sudo e2fsck -b 32768  This is what I got.
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo e2fsck -b 32768
Usage: e2fsck [-panyrcdfvstDFSV] [-b superblock] [-B blocksize]
        [-I inode_buffer_blocks] [-P process_inode_size]
        [-l|-L bad_blocks_file] [-C fd] [-j external_journal]
        [-E extended-options] device

Emergency help:
 -p                   Automatic repair (no questions)
 -n                   Make no changes to the filesystem
 -y                   Assume "yes" to all questions
 -c                   Check for bad blocks and add them to the badblock list
 -f                   Force checking even if filesystem is marked clean
 -v                   Be verbose
 -b superblock        Use alternative superblock
 -B blocksize         Force blocksize when looking for superblock
 -j external_journal  Set location of the external journal
 -l bad_blocks_file   Add to badblocks list
 -L bad_blocks_file   Set badblocks list
What should I do now.  I'm sorry it took so long to reply.   Thanks plucky

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-06-07
> sudo e2fsck -b 32768

You need to put the partition name ```
sudo e2fsck -b 32768 /dev/sdb2
``` and the same for the other partition and then see if you can see the partition in gparted.

Good Luck

---

### Post by keithwoermke on 2009-06-07
Here's what I got from e2fsck -b 32768 /dev/sdb2 and sdb4
```
e2fsck 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
e2fsck: Device or resource busy while trying to open /dev/sdb2
Filesystem mounted or opened exclusively by another program?
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo e2fsck -b 32768 /dev/sdb4
e2fsck 1.40.8 (13-Mar-2008)
e2fsck: Device or resource busy while trying to open /dev/sdb4
Filesystem mounted or opened exclusively by another program?

```
Gparted still shows them as not mounted.
Thanks Keith

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-06-08
The Live CD should not mount the Hard Drive so that command should work,unless there is something else accessing the drive.

> Filesystem mounted or opened exclusively by another program?

Don't know what to do next if you cannot access the partition.Possibly a reinstall of the operating system.


Good Luck

---

### Post by keithwoermke on 2009-06-09
I think I will follow your advice and re-install.   Thanks for your excellent help.

Keith

---

