---
title: "[10.04] Any idea how to combine keyboard layouts in group."
date: 2014-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Vaklin on 2014-04-24
Hi! I'm using three layouts for typing. US, BG and RU. Changing between them with key sequence (for me Ctrl+Shift) is difficult because I should tap one more time to back from Cyrillic (RU or BG) to US and back. The preferred way for me will be to group RU and BG and to use another switch sequence to choice between them. Any idea how to solve this?

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2014-04-24
Autokey from Software Centre should do this ..

other approaches are here (including Autokey)  .. 

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/254424/how-can-i-change-what-keys-on-my-keyboard-do-how-can-i-create-custom-keyboard](http://askubuntu.com/questions/254424/how-can-i-change-what-keys-on-my-keyboard-do-how-can-i-create-custom-keyboard)

---

### Post by Vaklin on 2014-04-25
Thanks for the response but my question was completely different. I'll try to explain more wide.  1. I'm using three keyboard layouts. USA, Bulgarian and Russian. First is Latin, next two are Cyrillic.  2. Now I can change between them with mouse (not acceptable at all) and with selected "Key(s) to change layout" from keyboard preferences.  3. In one set of typing I want to use one Latin and one from Cyrillic layouts. Not both. I want to go away from third tap to return to first selected. Example: Now I'm typing in US. I want to change to BG which is my second layot. Ctrl+Shift and done. But when I want to turn back to US I should tap this sequence two times, because I have third layout RU.  4. Of course, in one typing session, I usually  want to use only one from Cyrillic layouts.  5. My question is how to group RU and BG layouts and select one of them with another key sequence (for example Alt+Shift).    The last behaviour should looks like this: Ctrl+Shift - switch between US and one of previously selected Cyrillic layouts. Alt+Shift - Switch between layouts in group Cyrillic.  Key sequences here are only as example.

---

