---
title: "friggin video cards"
date: 2008-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by spkenny on 2008-10-19
Can someone please tell me why 3 different nvidia cards are making ubuntu not startup, or freeze shortly after startup?  It is obviously happening after each time that I put in a new card, I select the drivers for the video card, and each time it is one single nvidia acceleration driver that is avaliable that I select to enable the driver.  The driver is then downloaded and installed, after which an obvious restart is needed.  After the restart, everything goes to crap in one way or another.  Can someome please tell me if there is another driver I should be installing for each particular card, or what?  I have been a windows user for over 10 years now and was very excited about ubuntu and linux when I discovered it.  I am still learning even the basics to all this, but it seems not worth the hassle so far if the friggin platform cant function between 3 different cards!  If there's no light at the end of this tunnel, I'm going back to xp.  Tested all 3 cards in my 2nd machine, and they all run fine.  No chance of them being defective it that crosses anyone's mind.  The video cards I have are: Asus N6600LE 256mb, GF4 TI4200-8x DDR 128M-4L, and a GE Force MX440 P162 128 mb.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-10-19
Well, welcome and well done (switching from ...)

Now, concerning your problem, which actually is a very nice one to point out differences, linux can handle way more than that.

But you gotta tell your PC what you want it to do, which is actually one of the main differences. 

```

Linux                                                        Windows

YOU tell your PC how to act < ---------->You have 2 Options, chose one

```

This, however, means that you have to tell him what to do.
Freedom and rights always means, and it been like that ever since, that you have responsibilities as well as duties.

And this is obvious, and I wouldn't even want to share the same system with you, if it was preconfigured so that you may only hotplug anything you want.

See, thats the big difference: MS is getting paid for their product, which basically means they have to offer sth which is suitable for the vast majority of people. So MS HAS to provide Software, which would please the highest recommendments of potential users(=customers).

I prefer a system which suits MY needs, not yours. I don't need prebuilt support for three graphics devices, which all are proprietary.
So if you wanna get it working, you gotta work! And this is what you get. A true OS, which YOU may use to please YOUR needs. 

You don't get an interface you gotta share with millions of other customers, pay money for, and still celebrate patch days throughout the year.

So, most likely, if you got your PC setup exactly as you want it, you'll keep it this way as long as you want. No magic bluescreens, no system slowdowns, no need to reboot, nothing such things where the single user has to suffer from mass compatibility.

Thats it, and I can understand anyone who says it's enough for surfing and watching a video what MS offers. It's just, I don't like to be used, more fun using :)



Now some infos. You have a file on your rootsystem called xorg.conf.
It's located in /etc/X11.

There you can specify any Input->Cpu->Output layout you would like to have, different profiles, different layouts, everything you want. 

For now, lets have a look whats written to it, type the following into a terminal and post its output:
```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by spkenny on 2008-10-20
Ok, typed the command into the terminal this is what came up:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce FX (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1024x768"
	Horizsync	31.5-48.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0	-	65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"800x600@60"	"1024x768@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce FX (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection
spkenny@spkenny-1:~$ 

Now I should remind anyone reading this that there seems to be only one option on all the 3 nvidia cards that I insert into the computer.  I right click the desktop, select change desktop background, and then select visual effects.  It then comes up with a promt that says I need to install the accelerated graphics driver for nvidia cards.  That seems to be the ONLY driver avaliable, but on all 3 cards, as soon as I enable the option and download the driver, it seems to screw things up.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-10-21
> 
Driver "nv"


You aren't even using the drivers there are. But you're more into flaming anyway right? Just don't get burned.

---

### Post by slinkey1981 on 2008-10-21
> 
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce FX (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:2:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	1
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"


Is what yours says, mine says 

>  
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 6800 (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:0:8:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"


Are you sure that you have enabled the 'restricted drivers'?

If possible, can you

> 
 sudo aptitude install envyng


as it helped me through problems with my nVidia card.

If you install it, you will find a program under 'System Tools' named EnvyNG that will go about installing the latest drivers for your card.

---

