---
title: "9.1 udevd's using 70% of both cpu's"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jerome schatten on 2009-11-13
Running 9.10. Looking at System Monitor on a dual core 3ghz machine. After a while SM graphs show both CPU's at over 60% usage.  'top' shows multiple copies of 'udevd' running and responsible for the CPU usage. 

Others have posted about this, but is it a widespread problem? Is it real, or is it an artifact of how CPU usage is measured?  For me the workarounds did not work: i.e.leaving a cd in the drive, etc. Killing the udevd processes results in them being immediately regenerated with different PID's.

I don't notice degradation in performance, but this is a speedy machine and that fact may be masking the degradation problem for non compute intensive tasks.

What is your experience? 

Puzzled in Vancouver

---

### Post by pyronordicman on 2009-11-17
I have the same problem, using 9.10 Karmic x64, with a fresh install.  Sometimes killing udevd solves the problem, and sometimes multiple udevd processes start right back up again.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2009-11-17
I had this problem with 9.10 - removing ntfs drive from fstab 'fixes' it.

---

### Post by jerome schatten on 2009-11-17
Thanks guys...  I've been thinking about the various posts on this -- leave a disk in the drive; take ntfs out of fstab, do this, do that -- for some it worked for others not. 

I thought about the commonality in all the responses, and it was all around a device(s), disk, cd,  etc. and looked again at my own system.

Here I've tried all suggestions to no avail, but it dawned on me, that the common device left in the system for all the tests was my USB KVM switch. So, I connected keyboard, video and mouse directly instead of the KVM and the problem 'seems' to have disappeared.

CPU usage on either/both is well below 20% regardless of the compute intensiveness of the tasks playing. Before, after a normal boot up, just engaging firefox playing a video sent the usage skyrocketing, from which it never went down.

I say seems to have disappeared because I was fooled before. So, I'll report back in a few days.

BTW -- 9.04 played beautifully without any such problems. So, if for me this is the solution, there's definitely something flaky with udevd that it should be cured by such a variety of hardware dependent workarounds.

jerome

---

### Post by pdxrlk on 2009-12-12
I have the same problem on Ubuntu server 9.10  (udevd gone wild), and it appears to be a bug that has been recently reported - see [https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=541184](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=541184).   One way to see if this is the problem you are having is to run "udevadm monitor --env" and you may see a 'storm' of interrupts being reported.

---

### Post by jerome schatten on 2009-12-12
Interesting -- I wonder if there's any way of telling which device is causing the problem? From the logs presented, I couldn't tell, could you?  The top output looks almost identical to mine. I'm looking at the udevadmin monitor now. Thanks for the tip!
jerome

PDXLRK says:
>>I have the same problem on Ubuntu server 9.10 (udevd gone wild), and it appears to be a bug that has been recently reported - see [https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=541184](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=541184). One way to see if this is the problem you are having is to run "udevadm monitor --env" and you may see a 'storm' of interrupts being reported. >>

---

