---
title: "tascam, cpucs, usb"
date: 2013-12-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gorean on 2013-12-17
I have a Tacscam US-122.

Yes I know that this device is supposed to be plug and play and is directly supported and for a short time it worked like that.  Now it doesn't.

I have been using it on a system running Ubuntu since 2005 on several versions of Ubuntu Studio as well as the LTS.

This is the second computer and neither of them were new.  This particular issue may have started with the second computer.

I used to be able to configure the system to have it start up automatically and now I can no longer.  The fxload command has to be run from the command line.

I get the message "can't modify cpucs broken pipe".  Sometimes.  It is not consistent but once it comes up the device will not load without help.

I have found through Google that this message is generated by the USB controller.  Maybe specifically a Cypress USB controller.

I found reference to this message on a board for programmers for the Cypress controller which was the only place other than Linux boards I could locate information on this phrase.

CPUCS has something to do with the memory register on the chip.

Several issues (seemingly unsolved) pertaining to USB sound devices and this message are on the Linux boards.

Following is the command that loads the device and produces the message.

sudo fxload -s /usr/share/alsa/firmware/usx2yloader/tascam_loader.ihx -I /usr/share/alsa/firmware/usx2yloader/us122fw.ihx -D /dev/bus/usb/006/003

Operating under the hypothesis that the memory register needs to be cleared for fxload to do its job I have found that if I reboot the computer three times it seems to clear the register so the command works.

Now when I am doing this it feels like it is driven by superstition. Sometimes it is unsuccessful and has to be repeated.  Eventually the process works even if my hypothesis is not valid.

In the past sometimes I could go for weeks without having to play with it at all.  It has been a good while since I have been able to configure the device to start on boot and lately I have to play with it daily.

Presumably the result of some upgrade provided from the LTS network.

I have a relatively ancient background in NIX systems but one thing I remember there is a way to control and evaluate everything.

So if I knew a command that cleared the controller or whatever lock that refuses fxload and how to setup the logs that would capture the results for study it is possible this issue might permanently be resolved.

---

