---
title: "12.04 Partial Update error"
date: 2013-06-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by netwar on 2013-06-20
Hello everyone,
I primarily use FreeBSD UNIX so I can navigate command line fairly well  but I dont know all the ins-and-outs of ubuntu(Just a preface in case  some horribly obvious mistake is what has happened).
My original post was on the linux forums found [here]("http://www.linuxforum.com/threads/partial-update-error-12-04lts.4052/") was posted about 5 days ago and still has no replies at the time of writing, this has become more urgent because now im unable to install any software and says I need repair my "package catalog". any help is appreciated 
 
the output from:sudo dpkg --configure -a

[CENTER] [/CENTER]
  
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of wine1.6-i386:i386:
 wine1.6-i386:i386 depends on wine1.6:any (= 1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1).
dpkg: error processing wine1.6-i386:i386 (--configure):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of wine:
 wine depends on wine1.6; however:
  Package wine1.6 is not installed.
dpkg: error processing wine (--configure):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of wine1.5-i386:i386:
 wine1.5-i386:i386 depends on wine1.6-i386; however:
  Package wine1.6-i386:i386 is not configured yet.
dpkg: error processing wine1.5-i386:i386 (--configure):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of wine1.6-amd64:
 wine1.6-amd64 depends on wine1.6:any (= 1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1).
dpkg: error processing wine1.6-amd64 (--configure):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of wine1.5-amd64:
 wine1.5-amd64 depends on wine1.6-amd64; however:
  Package wine1.6-amd64 is not configured yet.
dpkg: error processing wine1.5-amd64 (--configure):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Errors were encountered while processing:
 wine1.6-i386:i386
 wine
 wine1.5-i386:i386
 wine1.6-amd64
 wine1.5-amd64

 
 
the output from: sudo apt-get install -f
 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Correcting dependencies... Done
The following extra packages will be installed:
  wine1.6
Suggested packages:
  dosbox:any
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  wine1.6
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
5 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0 B/1,206 kB of archives.
After this operation, 6,235 kB of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]?
 
After agreeing
 
(Reading database ... 703947 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking wine1.6 (from .../wine1.6_1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1_amd64.deb) ...
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/wine1.6_1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1_amd64.deb (--unpack):
 trying to overwrite '/usr/bin/wine64-preloader', which is also in package wine1.6-amd64 1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1
dpkg-deb: error: subprocess paste was killed by signal (Broken pipe)
Errors were encountered while processing:
 /var/cache/apt/archives/wine1.6_1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1_amd64.deb
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-06-20
Ubuntu is only different due to its gui making it more user friendly; but you also can only use the terminal (text mode) if you better like , as with freebsd :P

your log is showing an issue (witch might be solved by the latest package, but need to update the archive first) with wine1.6, so :
- rename the actual .wine to .wineold , in case you want/need to save the previous wine config
- then purge wine : > sudo apt-get purge wine wine1.5 wine1.6
- [PHP]sudo apt-get update[/PHP]
-> sudo apt-get -f install
-[PHP]sudo apt-get install wine wine1.6[/PHP]

note: you need the latest package : wine1.6 1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa4  ([https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wine/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-wine/+archive/ppa))

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-06-20
Did you install wine from a PPA? We sometimes get errors like that due to the PPA still being in the Software Sources. Try removing the wine PPA. As dino99 says you need that wine1.6_1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1_amd64.deb package but apt-get cannot get it from the PPA. That is my guess.

Regards.

---

### Post by netwar on 2013-06-20
Here is the output from sudo apt-get purge wine wine1.5 wine1.6
	 does this mean i need to remove playonlinux too?

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
You might want to run 'apt-get -f install' to correct these:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 playonlinux : Depends: wine or
                        wine-stable but it is not installable or
                        wine-unstable but it is not installable
 wine1.6-amd64 : Depends: wine1.6:any (= 1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1)
 wine1.6-i386:i386 : Depends: wine1.6:any:i386 (= 1.6~rc2-0ubuntu1~ppa1)
E: Unmet dependencies. Try 'apt-get -f install' with no packages (or specify a solution).

---

### Post by fantab on 2013-06-20
Yes. If you install Playonlinux then wine is installed as dependency.

---

### Post by netwar on 2013-06-21
Thanks managed to fix it after removing the ppa and using synaptic to remove them added it back and its working.
F.O.S.S. FTW

---

