---
title: "Seems like no nameservers are set"
date: 2006-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MikeBenza on 2006-11-08
I have a ubuntu machine (dapper) which doesn't seem to have its nameservers set up.  nslookup fails for anything unless I specify a server to use.

The machine has a static IP.  All communications to/from it work fine besides resolving hostnames.

Here is the config in /etc/network/interfaces:
```

auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
        address 192.168.101.40
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        gateway 192.168.101.1

```

And ifconfig:
```

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:04:76:B9:0C:4D
          inet addr:192.168.101.40  Bcast:192.168.101.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::204:76ff:feb9:c4d/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:379041 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:1 frame:0
          TX packets:111992 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:89290045 (85.1 MiB)  TX bytes:44768058 (42.6 MiB)
          Interrupt:201 Base address:0xe400

```

Any clue?

---

### Post by bsussman on 2006-11-08
If you're static, assign your DNS through System -> Administration -> Networking if you do not want to edit your /etc/resolv.conf yourself.

Watch out as this file is automatically generated and altered by certain system services, so it is probably a really good idea to use the gui!

---

### Post by MikeBenza on 2007-01-22
I've editted /etc/resolvconf/run/resolv.conf by hand a few times and set it up using network-admin, but the file keeps getting cleared out.  The file permissions are 644, so obviously something is doing it as root.  Should I set them by hand and change the permissions to 444?

- Mike

---

### Post by markmark on 2007-03-01
dhclient3 will hose your DNS settings even if you have a static IP set (stupid I know). You can either uninstall dhcp-client3 (I think that's the one) or edit /etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf

There will be a commented out line that says "prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1" or something, uncomment it and replace the 127.0.0.1 with your nameserver (or with more than one, seperated by commas. This will make your nameservers get put into your resolv.conf every time dhclient does it's thing. (run sudo dhclient3 and then have a look at /etc/resolv.conf to check).

Now if anyone knows why this doesn't work with network-manager in feisty I'd love to hear it (it works if I manually run dhclient3, but network-manager hoses it. Not sure what it is using for dhcp).

---

### Post by wxnker on 2007-03-06
Doing it from the network settings (gui) didn't work for me in EDGY or FEISTY without the mentioned edit.

I had to edit "/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf" and put in the server IP's like mentioned in #3 to make the system remember DNS nameservers on reboot.

If you do the DNS settings from the GUI it seems to forget the settings on reboot.

A bug? I hope this will be improved in the future (along with the IPV6 setting for faster browsing). These things should work "out of the box" so that newbies don't have to struggle to make this work.

_I use the nameservers from my internet provider but you can use these two if you do not know their internet providers nameservers:_
208.67.222.222
208.67.220.220

_The line should look like this:_
prepend domain-name-servers 208.67.222.222, 208.67.220.220;

---

### Post by Fraoch on 2007-04-08
Same problem here, however the fix doesn't work for me.  resolv.conf is empty after the comments section and remains so no matter what I do.

Unfortunately it looks like there's no interest in resolving the bug.:(

I'll try uninstalling dhcp-client3 but the package manager likes removing other packages that are related last time I tried something like this.

---

### Post by MikeBenza on 2007-07-26
So, now I have this problem on *two* Ubuntu machines...but both have static IPs....

---

### Post by Fraoch on 2007-07-27
Are they both running 6.06?

The problem is resolved for me with 7.04 on both a 64-bit machine and a 32-bit one.

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2007-07-27
> **Fraoch said:**
> Same problem here, however the fix doesn't work for me.  resolv.conf is empty after the comments section and remains so no matter what I do.


Then just edit it...

```
echo "nameserver aa.bb.cc.dd" | sudo tee -a /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by MikeBenza on 2007-07-30
> **HymnToLife said:**
> Then just edit it...

```
echo "nameserver aa.bb.cc.dd" | sudo tee -a /etc/resolv.conf
```


The problem is the edits keep getting overwritten.  I had to change the permissions on resolv.conf to 0444 to get keep the changes from being overwritten.

---

