---
title: "11.10 Upgrade Broke Unity"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jim_deadlock on 2011-10-13
Below is what my Unity desktop currently looks like after the upgrade (same thing for Unity 2D), note the blank white side panel. Nothing happens when I click the dash icon and basically I can't do anything. I can log in with LXDE and everything works fine but I'd like my Unity back, any suggestions?

[IMG]http://i932.photobucket.com/albums/ad168/jim_deadlock/unity-1110.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-10-13
Try to switch to a VT using Ctrl+Alt+F1 to F6.
Run the following command:

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
```If you get positive answers, run the following command:
```

DISPLAY=:0.0 unity --reset
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/bin/ccsm &
```And switch back to the desktop with Ctrl+Alt+F7
You'll have ccsm in your desktop.

OpenGL, Composite and the Unity Plugin are mandatory. But make sure the selected options are adequate for your video card. In the case of Some ATI, for example, it's important to uncheck "Sync to VBlank" in the OpenGL Plugin. Also, you can Deactivate / wait / activate the Ubuntu Unity Plugin. Sometimes, as pathetic as it seems, it fixes the launcher. There are some quirks for Intel, NVidia and ATI VGAs, unfortunately, that were not fixed despite constant reporting during the last months of testing. Restart your session to see if it fixed it. You may do that by switching back to that VT and running ```
sudo service lightdm restart

```

If still you have no luck, you can try this:
```
DISPLAY=:0.0 compiz --replace &
``` (no sudo, ok?)
Switch back with Ctrl+Alt+F7

Good luck.

Regards,
Effenberg

---

