---
title: "9.10 and having some issues"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mas1234 on 2009-11-01
I've read many places that one of the benefits of Karmic is the faster boot time.  I did an upgrade from 9.04 on-line rather than a fresh install.  And I have to say, my boot times are probably double with 9.10 than what I saw with 9.04.  

I consistently get the crash indicator on the top right... and usually, I get some additional dialog about a certain package.  I also consistently seem to get the "serious kernel problem" error message as well.  

I was using Banshee for iPod stuff on 9.04, and I actually never could get it working properly.  It is supposed to support iPod sync.  With 9.04, when I plugged in my iPod, I could see it in Banshee, and I could also play music from it.  However, on the iPod display, I continuously got the red circle with line through saying do not disconnect.   This would never go away.  So every time I detached it, I had to reboot the iPod.  

With 9.10 in Banshee, I don't even see my iPod... it doesn't seem to recognize it.  But, I still get the red circle and line on the iPod.  Rhthymbox does recognize it in 9.10. 

Also in Banshee, when you closed it in previous versions, it would still show the icon in the top status bar and continue playing music.  In 9.10, it still continues to play the music, but it is not in the status bar... you have to go start it again from the applications to turn it off or change the song.  

Several applications seem to just lock up.  My daughter loves tux paint.  When you open it up it sees to work okay.  Almost all the time, when you try to close it, it just locks up... I have to go to system monitor to kill the process.  Same thing has happened with a few other random applications.  

Any recommendations here?  Someone said reinstall fresh... is it really worth the time to reinstall again from scratch?  It took forever to pull down the files for update after the upgrade... I mean forever.  I was getting download speeds as low as 19 kb/s.  

Frustrated... and welcoming any thoughts or suggestions.  Wondering if I just need to go back to XP.

---

