---
title: "12.04 and 12.10 simple question"
date: 2012-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Twilk73 on 2012-10-28
Is 12.04 more stable then 12.10? I am new and problems are things I want to avoid at the moment. Anyway currently I am on 12.10 and I had everything working. I was really messing about and fudged it to the point where it wouldnt load up. No problem I am new I half expected this so even though I didnt have a back up I knew what to do after a reboot, or so I thought.

Anyway I got most things working again but now I am having an issue  with my nvidia card and the funny thing is it was an issue I solved in the previous load up. Anytime I switch to the nvidia card it doesnt recognize the proper screen size and I have to change back to the open source card. The issue with the open source card is that it makes wording on a lot of ubuntu's start apps get all glitchy/scratched. So if I switch back to 12.04 am I going to have an easier time? Or is 12.10 basically 12.04 but with some updates?

Thanks, I have been whoring this forum for info these last few days like crazy and I appreciate everyones help.

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-10-28
12.04 is supposed to be more stable than 12.10, because it is a Long Term Supported release, supported for 5 years.

---

### Post by Twilk73 on 2012-10-29
Thanks, if I cant get this nvidia driver working I might just have to downgrade to that.

---

### Post by zombifier25 on 2012-10-29
Just to clarify: You can't downgrade, you can only do a fresh install of 12.04.

---

### Post by Twilk73 on 2012-10-29
Thanks I was curious if you could downgrade or not but regardless I was thinking of doing a fresh install.

---

