---
title: "LTS 10.04 unformat hardrive help"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by scot.mcpherson on 2010-05-05
I did a fresh install of ubuntu 10.04 on my system. I have two hard-drives, one for / and another for /home. During the partition configuration of the install, I was pretty sure I chose not to format the /home disk, however it was an ext3 disk, and I chose to mount it ext4 during installation. I don't know of this makes a difference or not. That's just background.

/home appears to have been formated, I don't have a backup, because silly me the backup was on the / disk. Ah well.

What's the best current tool to perform an unformat of my /home disk? It's already been written to, I couldn't help that, but I would like to recover everything that's still available to be recovered from that disk.

I used to be an old hand at linux tools and using them for recovering disks in all states of (dis)repair, but it's been a long time since I became just a "user", and I haven't been keeping up.

Thanks for the help.
Scot

---

### Post by jascayne on 2010-05-05
Click your heels together three times and say "There's no place like /home"

Seriously though... you've probably lost a bunch of stuff if you've already written to the drive, but I'd recommend the Ultimate Boot CD, it includes tonnes of tools for doing exactly what you are looking for, and hopefully is going to be able to help you at least somewhat... Good luck

---

### Post by Vardpavard on 2010-11-02
I have exactly the same problem - ext3/ext4 /home partition reformatted with ext4. UBCD does not help - partition is not lost, it was just formatted.
Any ideas how to recover files (or it can NOT be done)?

---

### Post by Yougo on 2010-11-02
i had a similar experience once, and [this]("http://www.nooooooooooooooo.com/") helped me relate and relieve some pain :-\
they should include this feature in the install cd.

other than that, i'm afraid your data is gone, sorry

/edit
a short google turned up some results on recovering ext3 partitions, but i can't see if any of it results in any sort of succes. this e.g. runs under windows: [http://www.bestshareware.net/howto/how-to-recover-files-from-ext2-ext3-drive.htm](http://www.bestshareware.net/howto/how-to-recover-files-from-ext2-ext3-drive.htm)

i fear it's just too much of a hassle to even get this working. for the sake of your sanity, a hot cup of coco and a night of crying and then to carry on may be the better option.

good luck...

---

### Post by TheAnachron on 2010-11-02
Guys, everyone and everywhere in tutorials, discussions and readmes there is one sentence like "MAKE SURE TO BACKUP YOUR DATA FIRST!".

I have made this mistake as well, and I've learned it. Hopefully you take care about this too next time.

---

### Post by alphaamanitin on 2010-11-02
TestDisk.  TestDisk is able to detect old partitions and may be able to restore the old partition, depends on how much has been overwritten.  In your case, it sounds like quite a lot.  I was able to completely recover all my files, the configuration and get Windows XP to boot back up (using supergrub CD as a boot manager) after I deleted my Windows XP hard drive partition and reformated the partition to FAT32 from NTFS.  

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk)

There is also a on TestDisk to simply recover files.  That may be your best bet, but I think you have lost lots of info.  Good Luck.

AlphaA

---

### Post by Vardpavard on 2010-11-05
Results so far:

[LIST]
[*]testdisk 6.11 - no previous partitions (as expected)
[*]Sleuth kit & autopsy - looks only at current file system, no results
[*]Stellar Phoenix Linux Data Recovery v4.0.0.0 (demo) - no results
[*]EASEUS Data Recovery Wizard Professional v5.0.1 (demo) - finds files from previous file system, but does not recover full files, only pieces (for example - several files of 0.5MB instead of 3.2MB picture). So - nice try, but no.
[*]UFS Explorer Standard Recovery v4 (demo) - no results
[*]Diskinternals Linux Recovery v2.7 - finds files from previous file system (as EASEUS DRWP), but crashes while generating file tree. No results.
[/LIST]

---

### Post by vsespb on 2011-01-12
Hello.

Same problem. I think (I am pretty sure) there is a bug in Ubuntu installer.

I loosed one HDD cause of hardware problem.

Then I tried to install Ubuntu to another drive.

I've choose to format, say, /dev/sda1 and mount but _not_format_ /dev/sda2

Ubuntu installer formated BOTH !!

So in total I loosed data on two physical drives !

---

