---
title: "11.04 Sound goes mute and does not work until reboot!"
date: 2011-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by micael3000 on 2011-07-04
Hello,

I have experienced 4 or 5 times a sound-muting bug. Suddenly speakers stop working (usually not in in the middle of something musical but when there is no sound playing) and does not work again until I reboot the system.

Do anyone know how can I fix it?

Thanks! :)

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2011-07-04
Did you see this solution?

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-mn/2009-June/000253.html]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-us-mn/2009-June/000253.html")

---

### Post by micael3000 on 2011-07-11
This is not the correct fix :(
I was using ubuntu 10.10 and everything was just fine! This issue showed up when I migrate to the 11.04... I have already formatted my laptop and it is still happening sometimes. When it happens I have a message (on right-top area, like all messages) saying about an error on the output device... But I have no idea what is going on!

I had not this PulseAudio installed, now I installed it and the issue is still happening.

Ubuntu 11.04 is really messed up... BTW I am on 64 bits.

:(

---

### Post by mihalybaci on 2011-07-11
[Here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1784155") is a similar thread, because I have a similar issue. Definitely check the sound troubleshooting in the thread I linked you before trying my dual boot "solution".  I've also reported this as a confirmed [bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/798394") with the alsa driver, so hopefully there will be a permanent fix soon.

---

### Post by micael3000 on 2011-07-26
I finally managed to take a screenshot from the error-message that was showing up before the sound go crazy.

Here it is: [http://i52.tinypic.com/14juszm.png](http://i52.tinypic.com/14juszm.png)

I really have no idea what is going on here.

---

### Post by micael3000 on 2011-09-11
I am being able to recover those bugs sometimes by changing some settings on my sound preferences... Therefore I am closing this topic as SOLVED (however, I cannot fix it EVERYTIME).

---

### Post by micael3000 on 2011-09-29
I am reopening this thread because last week I have this issue SO MUCH that I am really mad about it.

Please, can someone give it the properly importance? Ubuntu is a huge system and CANNOT have those giant lacks.

---

### Post by tiggsy on 2011-10-01
this was working until recently and suddenly now it's mute (icon in panel shows speaker with ---, selecting sound prefs does NOT show it as muted. but there is no sound, and seemingly no way to get any. this makes skype a tad useless.

---

