---
title: "8.10 doesn't detect monitor"
date: 2008-12-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by r0k3t on 2008-12-09
Hi there, 

I just installed 8.10 on a Dimension 4600 with a Samsung SyncMaster 770 TFT monitor and when I go to System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution and click Detect Monitor nothing happens... 

Seems like this is pretty middle of the road hardware - not sure why it would have a problem but I can't find anyone else in the forum with an issue like this. 

Thanks -

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-12-10
> **r0k3t said:**
> Hi there, 

I just installed 8.10 on a Dimension 4600 with a Samsung SyncMaster 770 TFT monitor and when I go to System -> Preferences -> Screen Resolution and click Detect Monitor nothing happens... 
.......

Mine does nothing either, but it doesn't affect the system using my monitor to its maximum resolution.

Unless you have a resolution problem, don't worry about it.

---

### Post by r0k3t on 2008-12-11
The problem is that my resolution is to low, my monitor can do 1200x1028 and it is and 800x600. 

Thanks

---

### Post by r0k3t on 2008-12-11
Just as an update I tried 
```

 sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg


```

I just went through the keyboard options and that was it... My xorg.conf file looks like the one below. It didn't change. 

Anyone got any suggestions? 

Thanks!


```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
EndSection
~                                                          

```

---

### Post by r0k3t on 2008-12-11
Hi all, 

Well I soved this issue by piecing together pieces of the right xorg.conf file - I still have no idea why unbuntu is having such a tuff time with my middle of the road hardware - a Dimension 4600 and syncmaster 770 tft. 

see [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1008749](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1008749) for my sound problems :(

Anyone wanna comment on that? 

Thanks -

---

### Post by maxim99 on 2008-12-25
I wouldn't mind seeing an example of your xorg.conf. I'm having an issue where I have a machine that doesn't always have a monitor turned on when it boots. So the auto detection doesn't work and causes the x server to crash. So I need to manually over ride the auto detection settings through the xorg.conf.

---

### Post by linfidel on 2009-01-02
> **maxim99 said:**
> I wouldn't mind seeing an example of your xorg.conf. I'm having an issue where I have a machine that doesn't always have a monitor turned on when it boots. So the auto detection doesn't work and causes the x server to crash. So I need to manually over ride the auto detection settings through the xorg.conf.
It actually crashes?  If I forget to turn on my monitor when I turn on the computer, it may come up in a low-resolution mode, which I can see on the login screen.  Or, it may come up with the correct resolution, but I'll have mouse wheel scroll problems, where the mousewheel causes Firefox to scroll the history instead of the page sometimes.

If I forget, I automatically do a ctrl-alt-backspace at the login screen, before logging in - it's pretty quick.

FWIW, my monitor (Dell LCD) also doesn't get detected, and my xorg.conf file looks the same as what r0k3t had.  It used to get detected fine.  

I wouldn't care so much, but there's this new dumb icon "Configure Display Settings" in my notification area that does nothing useful.  It can lower my resolution, but then it won't set it back. :(

---

