---
title: "What's the new sudo dpkg-configure xserver-xorg"
date: 2008-07-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aysiu on 2008-07-22
In the old days, if someone had screwed up the Xorg.conf file and was stuck at the terminal, the command ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` would ask questions and fix things.

Now, it appears to just ask you questions about your keyboard (and not the video configuration at all).

What's the new command that works in Hardy?

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2008-07-22
I believe the command works the same as before...perhaps with an exception where restricted video drivers have been enabled.

---

### Post by ajmorris on 2008-07-22
i thought the command still worked too... but you could use xfix.

---

### Post by fanderal on 2008-07-23
I just installed Kubuntu 8.04 a few days ago and had the same question. Was looking around at some of the files I usually edit because, while my screen seemed okay, it wasn't quite as crisp and sharp as it usually is. Xorg.conf was kinda odd:

> 
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection


The man page says dexconf doesn't actually configure xorg.conf and refers to debconf. The debconf man page seems to say I need to specify a front end to use with dexconf. I think the front end may SystemSettings > Monitor & Display, but that too is kinda odd. The SystemSettings > Monitor & Display > Size,Orientation & Positioning shows the correct screen size and refresh (1680x1050 @60Hz). However, Hardware > Monitor > Configure shows incorrect horizontal and vertical ranges, and the image format is set to 4:3 instead of 16:10.

I did some googling after checking ~/.xsession-errors and it appears that /var/lib/python-support/python2.5/ has a number of scripts which automate the configuration for xorg. And at the Kubuntu wiki under "Bulletproof X and Display Configuration," there's a reference to bug# 203378. ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kde-guidance/+bug/203378](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kde-guidance/+bug/203378))

My first attempts at editing xorg worked for the screen but created a problem in SystemSettings > Monitor & Display: "The module Monitor & Display could not be loaded." By trial and error, I was able to add enough settings to get the screen crisp and clear, and also have the Monitor & Display module load. 

Seems there's an added layer of scripts so new folks don't hafta deal with editing xorg. It may be that sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg doesn't set the screen to avoid a conflict with the scripts? Whatever the reason, it makes it harder to directly edit xorg.conf.

---

### Post by louieb on 2008-07-23
When I upgraded to Hardy I was greeted by 600x800 max resolution. 
Somewhere in the forum somebody said to use
```
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
```I use it and selected my monitor and that got me back to a 900x1440 max resolution.  

That fixed things after the login screen.  The login screen was still messed up could only see the left upper 2/3rds of the screen Could not see the bar with the session options (F10 would bring the menu up). 
To fix had to run ```
gksudo nvidia-settings 
```and have it save the settings to xorg.conf.

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-07-23
From [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video)

> Note: As of Ubuntu 8.04 and Xorg 7.3, the setup and configuration of /etc/X11/xorg.conf has changed. Please see the [Xorg in Ubuntu 8.04]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy") for more information.

For additional troubleshooting resources, please also see the [Ubuntu X Team wiki]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X")

It's odd because the 1st link in the quoted text still references the "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg" command. I'd like to know myself what the correct way to reconfigure X is.

---

### Post by ajmorris on 2008-07-23
> **louieb said:**
> When I upgraded to Hardy I was greeted by 600x800 max resolution. 
Somewhere in the forum somebody said to use
```
gksudo displayconfig-gtk
```I use it and selected my monitor and that got me back to a 900x1440 max resolution. 
 
That fixed things after the login screen. The login screen was still messed up could only see the left upper 2/3rds of the screen Could not see the bar with the session options (F10 would bring the menu up). 
To fix had to run ```
gksudo nvidia-settings 
```and have it save the settings to xorg.conf.
 
I think aysiu was meaning for if X is not running correctly. You can only run those commands if you can start X up.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2008-07-23
> **ajmorris said:**
> I think aysiu was meaning for if X is not running correctly. You can only run those commands if you can start X up.
Yes, you're correct. I mean if someone is stuck at the fullscreen terminal.

---

### Post by loboc on 2008-07-23
> **aysiu said:**
> Yes, you're correct. I mean if someone is stuck at the fullscreen terminal.

xrandr will let you mess with resolutions from the command line, no way to pick a driver though from what it says in this [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/XORGHardy) you have to add a device line to /etc/X11/xorg.conf with nano

---

### Post by ajmorris on 2008-07-23
> **aysiu said:**
> Yes, you're correct. I mean if someone is stuck at the fullscreen terminal.
 
Does xfix not work if you are stuck at TTY?
 
*not at ubuntu box right now to check*

---

### Post by louieb on 2008-07-23
> **aysiu said:**
> Yes, you're correct. I mean if someone is stuck at the fullscreen terminal.

> **ajmorris said:**
> Does xfix not work if you are stuck at TTY? 

Had that happen to me on an older PC too. I booted to recovery mode.:) I was surprised to see the change.  :confused: selected** xfix **then selected **resume normal boot  **

The GUI came up at 480x600.

---

