---
title: "cdrom0 Permission Error"
date: 2007-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dark Elitist on 2007-04-28
Hello,

I'm helping a friend install some games on his Ubuntu system, in this case specifically Quake IV.  I know how to do it and have done it several times for several people in the past and, at this point, is just a matter of copying the pk4s off of the disc into the q4base directory.

We've already installed several games including Quake III Arena, Doom 3 and Doom 3: Resurrection of Evil and had no problem.  Very strangely, after we finished copying the files needed from Quake IV, disc one of four, and inserted disc two, the following error displayed:

The folder contents could not be displayed.
You do not have the permissions necessary to view the contents of "cdrom0".

It's been working totally fine and nothing was changed or even touched whatsoever having to do with cdrom0 or anything of that nature.  We tried other discs and, still, the same error comes up now.  All we had been doing was sudo cp filename1.pk4 filename2.pk4 /use/local/base/quake4/q4base/ and so on.  We also tried rebooting with no disc inside and still, this error occurs upon insertion of disc.

The output of his /etc/fstab is as follows:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/hda4
UUID=bb528419-d5c4-412f-82e5-09528fa5c11f /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/hdb9
UUID=1e8aad61-53b9-42d1-b8bf-c1fca1fc7f46 /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/hda1
# /dev/hda5
# /dev/hdb5
# /dev/hdb6
# /dev/hdb7
# /dev/hdb8
UUID=95058e1c-d2ae-4f25-be6a-2cc652f5a149 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/hdc        /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hdb6   /media/hdb6   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/hda1   /media/hda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hda5   /media/hda5   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hdb5   /media/hdb5   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hdb7   /media/hdb7   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

Nothing was changed here and all has been working fine until now.  Any idea what is going on and why?

Thanks!

UPDATE: This problem only occurs with Quake IV, disc two through four.  Other discs seem to work fine.  What's going on?

---

