---
title: "15.04 and ssh"
date: 2015-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wgordonharris on 2015-04-23
I've just done a clean install of 15.04 server.  I'm finding that I cannot ssh into my old 14.04 server from the new one.  I consistently get the:

ssh: connect to host oldserver port 22: Connection refused

..error message.

Firewall is configured correctly at both ends and I can easily ssh into the oldserver from other machines, just not the new, 15.04 one.

I can ssh into the newserver from the old.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-04-23
ssh -vvvv userid@remote-server-ip

Watch the debug messages.

---

### Post by wgordonharris on 2015-04-23
From the new, 15.04 server to the old 14.04 server:

ssh -vvvv user@oldserver
OpenSSH_6.7p1 Ubuntu-5ubuntu1, OpenSSL 1.0.1f 6 Jan 2014
debug1: Reading configuration data /etc/ssh/ssh_config
debug1: /etc/ssh/ssh_config line 19: Applying options for *
debug2: ssh_connect: needpriv 0
debug1: Connecting to oldserver [192.168.0.98] port 22.
debug1: connect to address 192.168.0.98 port 22: Connection refused
ssh: connect to host scserver port 22: Connection refused


From the old 14.04 server to the new, 15.04 server:

ssh -vvvv user@newserver
OpenSSH_6.6.1, OpenSSL 1.0.1f 6 Jan 2014
debug1: Reading configuration data /etc/ssh/ssh_config
debug1: /etc/ssh/ssh_config line 19: Applying options for *
debug2: ssh_connect: needpriv 0
debug1: Connecting to newserver [192.168.0.5] port 22.
debug1: Connection established.
...etc...

I'm also seeing an error trying to rsync from the old server to the new:

no matching cipher found: client arcfour server aes128-ctr,aes192-ctr,aes256-ctr,aes128-gcm@openssh.com,aes256-gcm@openssh.com,chacha20-poly1305@openssh.com
rsync: connection unexpectedly closed (0 bytes received so far) [sender]
rsync error: unexplained error (code 255) at io.c(226) [sender=3.1.2dev]

Could the ssh problem be related to this?  I.e. a cipher mis-match?

---

### Post by wgordonharris on 2015-04-23
<embarrassed>Ok, ssh problem solved.  Was merely a bad ip entry in the hosts file. </embarrassed>

But, the cipher mis-match stuff is real if you're trying to use arcfour for quick rsync over ssh transfers.  See:

[https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=188613](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=188613)

---

### Post by Doug S on 2015-04-23
> **wgordonharris said:**
> <embarrassed>Ok, ssh problem solved.  Was merely a bad ip entry in the hosts file. </embarrassed>

But, the cipher mis-match stuff is real if you're trying to use arcfour for quick rsync over ssh transfers.  See:

[https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=188613](https://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=188613)Oh my!!! that is very annoying, as I use the arcfour Cipher.

---

