---
title: "12.04 wont boot"
date: 2013-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dcb5739 on 2013-05-04
I have been using 12.04 for a few months, used the windows installer and installed inside of windows, only have a 250 gig hard drive about half full,so I didnt want another partitional has been well until last night. Now it wont boot. as the splash screen loads I get a white box with lines of want look like zeroes, and in the box is the word OK. I click that a few times and I get a black log in screen, login and all I get is a prompt. Ran a boot repair and no improvement. I dont know if the paste bin link helps but here it is
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/5634010/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5634010/)

Thanks
Dave

---

### Post by dcb5739 on 2013-05-04
I guess that it may help to know I have a Dell Inspiron 1545 laptop running Vista
Thanks
Dave

---

### Post by dcb5739 on 2013-05-05
Can I just use the windows installer again and install right over the corrupted install
Thanks

---

### Post by dcb5739 on 2013-05-06
Or should I uninstall then reinstall... or am I missing an easy fix here

---

### Post by dcb5739 on 2013-05-06
??

---

### Post by dcb5739 on 2013-05-07
Figured it wasnt worth the hassle anymore, uninstalled it... Windows has never given me a No Boot before

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2013-05-07
I know this is NOT quite the answer you are looking for but....

Try Boot Repair: follow step 1. below and load into "Try Ubuntu" from the CD, this will allow you to play with your installed Ubuntu, then load Boot Repair

I assume you are using the Wibi.exe to install.  That is only any good to use if playing around in my opinion, so uninstall it if you can and do a full and proper install of Ubuntu.  I am not a techie, but I have found the installs getting easier and easier, and 250G is more than enough.  I have old machines with only 30G running both perfectly well.

My suggestion is:
1. download the iso and burn it to a CD, ensure you use a 32-bit on a 32-bit machine and a 64-bit on a 64-bit machine.

2. When it loads up and gets to the partitioner (gParted), select the customized version, and create a large as you can partition to call Documents (NTFS), and other of about 10G and call HOME (Ext4) and another of 5G to call SWAP, then another for Root (/) (Ext4) which is where you install in to.

3. The Documents partition, copy everything over from Windows and share between both OS - you can also make it bigger if you want after the install is complete and you are happy with it.....
The Home is where all your preferences will be kept and you can move the default directorates for Videos, and Documents to the Documents directory above...

Hope this is of some help.  Sorry I can't fix your immediate problem, but I could see no one had replied so I wanted to offer as much support as I could.

---

