---
title: "12.10 laptop b43 wireless"
date: 2012-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by schulznotee on 2012-11-23
OK, folks, this is getting ridiculous. All I want to do is change my password to replace the volatile one the forum sent and I get a message that I'm not allowed to do it. Am I screwed?

My reason for being here is 12.10 freshly installed on my Compaq C500 laptop with a BCM4211 wireless. Ubuntu sees the card but I can't get it to work. Maddening! In part the data:

product: BCM4311 802.11b/g WLAN
physical id: 0
bus info: pci@0000:06:00:0
version: 01
capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
configuration: driver=b43-pci-bridge latency=0
resources: irq:18 memory:80400000-80403fff

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-11-23
Did you try to run the additional drivers application?

[http://www.itworld.com/software/302900/install-additional-drivers-ubuntu-1210](http://www.itworld.com/software/302900/install-additional-drivers-ubuntu-1210)

If this doesn't work, try the suggestions in the community documentation:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#b43%20-%20No%20Internet%20access]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx#b43%20-%20No%20Internet%20access")

---

### Post by schulznotee on 2012-11-23
Thank you. The first suggestion (not visible here since I had to re-log in) did not work as the proprietary driver was already in use. I did the "do not use" and "revert," but to no avail. 

The second option is getting more and more confusing the farther I get into it.

I really love this OS and have been using it for several years but that's when everything's cooking along nicely. However, when a problem like this crops up, I long for something else even the long-deleted Vista nightmare which came on this Presario notebook. MS may have boggy, huge programs but when there's a problem, there seems, at least in my experience, a single way to solve it, not this quagmire of multiple routes and conflicting information. Color me confused. 

OK, I've just downloaded the 32-bit 802.11 Linux STA driver. What do I do with the zip file now? Do I unzip it? Where to? How do I unstall it? 

And what about that password which is about to go tango uniform?

---

### Post by schulznotee on 2012-11-23
Oh, and by the way, the Linux Mint 12 which I wiped from this machine to install U12.10 had the same problem except that all I had to do was use the terminal command "sudo modprobe b43" and the wireless light came on and a notification appeared in the upper right of the screen that I was connected. Unfortunately, it wasn't persistent but the command each time was a small price to pay. Sadly, that command doesn't work with U12.10.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-11-23
Hi, copy and paste this command in the terminal (ctrl+alt+t) please:
```
wget -N -t 5 -T 10 http://dl.dropbox.com/u/57264241/wireless_script && chmod +x wireless_script && ./wireless_script
```
It will download a script and create a text file in your home folder with wireless information so we can see the condition of your wireless at this time and the Mac address, WPA key and WEP key are removed for your security,  then reply back  and attach the netinfo.txt file.
Thanks

---

### Post by Jaggie1939 on 2012-12-28
Yes, know how you feel with broken wireless connection. The troubleshooting utility on Win7 is particularly helpful at wireless recovery without having to resort to complex terminal commands.

---

