---
title: "Unable to mount a ext2 drive read-write on boot."
date: 2007-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by troseph on 2007-05-24
I have 3 empty drives that I want to mount into the /media directory, it will mount fine, but when i go to create a file in them, I get a permission denied error. This seems to me like something I have done wrong in gparted when I formated them or something wrong in my fstab file, but I don't see anything wrong... Please let me know what I need to set/modify to be able to write to my extra 230GB or space :)...

This is my code for fstab:
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb2 :
UUID=3a78e88a-1eda-40d2-b35a-9452147ae0c3 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=19f2a133-2118-4289-aab5-e43c57ffe952 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/VM ext2 rw,auto,user,async,exec,dev,suid 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Media ext2 rw,auto,user,async,exec,dev,suid 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Backup ext2 rw,auto,user,async,exec,dev,suid 0 0

```
Instead or using "defaults" for the mount options, I tried this:
```

rw,auto,user,async,exec,dev,suid

```
defaults will set all those the same but the user is set to "nouser" thus giving me the same problem.

---

### Post by troseph on 2007-05-25
Fixed it... for now. With a change of ownership.

```

sudo chown troseph /mydata

```

Does anyone know if this is permanent? Or will the owner be set to root on boot every time?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2007-05-25
Yes, it is permanent...

---

### Post by mysfit_i on 2007-05-25
This looked like the same problem I was having so thought I had found a solution.  But when I tried it I got the following message
chown: changing ownership of `/media/DRV2_VOL1': Operation not permitted

This is a usb external hard disk that when plugged in turns up as /dev/sda1 and is mounted as /media/DRV2_VOL1.  This is not in fstab but is in mtab.

I can read the files OK but can't write to the disk.  When I check the disks permissions from Places > Computer the Owner and Group are shown as unknown and read only.  When I try and set them to read + write I get the error message:
The permissions could not be changed.
Sorry, couldn't change the permissions of "DRV2_VOL1".

What do I have to do to sort out ownership and permissions for this external disk drive?

regards

massedgadget

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2007-05-25
What filesystem is the drive formatted in ?

---

### Post by mysfit_i on 2007-05-25
System Monitor says vfat and disk properties says vfat (FAT32).  So OK it is not quite the same problem because it is a different file system.  Sorry for taking this problem sideways.

The line in the mtab file for the disc is:

/dev/sda1 /media/DRV2_VOL1 vfat rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0

First time I had the problem I thought it was because I had the disc switched on and connected before I booted the machine, so I rebooted and switched off the drive until after I had logged in.  I then switched it on and the icon appeared on my desktop.  But I still cannot write to the drive.

How come the mtab file says rw yet the permissions (when I go Places > Computer > DRV2_VOL1 and right click on the disk) say read only?

massedgadget

---

