---
title: "9.10: How to force login screen to primary monitor?"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Razmear on 2009-10-30
Howdy,
I just upgraded to 9.10 last night and I have one annoyance that I'd like to deal with. 
My system has a Nvidia 6200 graphics card running in Twinview mode. 
The primary (left) monitor is the CRT, the secondary (right) monitor is my TV set and is used for watching movies, streams etc. 
On bootup I get the 10 seconds of the black screen with the white Ubuntu logo (not sure what is going on while thats displayed), the the Starting Up message, and the Nvidia Splash screen. Then I get the 'spotlight' looking screen on my primary monitor and the TV displays what looks like a reddish brown piece of modern art. After that the Login screen appears on the TV and I'd really like it to show up on my monitor instead. 
Once I've logged in the CRT becomes the primary monitor and all is good, so this is really just a minor annoyance, but I'd still like to get it fixed. 

Thanks,
eb

---

### Post by RTrev on 2009-10-30
I notice the same thing with TwinView, and I don't have an answer but I have discovered a clumsy work-around.

When the system is about to present the login dialog, I simply move my mouse, the pointer of which is still invisible at this point, to the left.. as if I were moving the mouse pointer to the left (primary) monitor.

The login then shows up on the left monitor as it should.  Kind of a nuisance to have to do, but maybe it will help until the bug gets squashed.

---

### Post by Razmear on 2009-10-31
Thanks for the reply, at least now I know I'm not the only one with this issue. 
I'll give the mouse to the left workaround a try on my next reboot. 

eb

---

### Post by jia3ep on 2010-01-20
I have the same problem with Nvidia 9600GT. Is there any new information on this issue?

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-01-20
> **RTrev said:**
> I notice the same thing with TwinView, and I don't have an answer but I have discovered a clumsy work-around.

When the system is about to present the login dialog, I simply move my mouse, the pointer of which is still invisible at this point, to the left.. as if I were moving the mouse pointer to the left (primary) monitor.

The login then shows up on the left monitor as it should.  Kind of a nuisance to have to do, but maybe it will help until the bug gets squashed.

I noticed that to. Do you still see the panel on the left as well?

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-20
I read a thread on this yesterday. Apparently, the login thing shows up where the mouse is, and the default position of the mouse is in the centre of the screen that twinview is using. By that, I don't mean the monitor, but the screen area that is spread across both monitors by twin view. This means that the log in will always appear on the monitor with the larger resolution, because it's borders will always overlap the centre of the screen. If also explains why the "move the mouse trick" works.

---

### Post by RTrev on 2010-01-20
> **wojox said:**
> I noticed that to. Do you still see the panel on the left as well?

My left monitor is (well, was) my primary one, but I don't recall seeing either the top or bottom panels show up until well after the login had been completed.

I say "was" because one of my monitors died about 2 weeks ago and I'm now running a single monitor.  Otherwise I'd check it for you.

Life is much simpler with a single monitor, but I miss the real estate! :(

---

