---
title: ".tgz packages"
date: 2006-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CS.Colt on 2006-12-10
Hi. As someone new to Linux, I am still working out exactly how to install 3rd party software and other things not listed under applications>add/remove.
I've noticed that sometimes when I download something it will be downloaded as a .tgz file. I just converted from Windows XP so my question is, "are .tgz files similiar to .zip or .rar files? I assume that the Archive is like Winzip/Winrar and you extract them like normal to whichever directories you want?"

---

### Post by riven0 on 2006-12-10
> **CS.Colt said:**
> Hi. As someone new to Linux, I am still working out exactly how to install 3rd party software and other things not listed under applications>add/remove.
I've noticed that sometimes when I download something it will be downloaded as a .tgz file. I just converted from Windows XP so my question is, "are .tgz files similiar to .zip or .rar files? I assume that the Archive is like Winzip/Winrar and you extract them like normal to whichever directories you want?"

That's correct. Just double click on the file and the archiver should come up. However, most programs archived in .tgz are in source code. That means you'll have to do a some compiling to get the program to run. Make sure you look over the README that comes with it.

---

### Post by meng on 2006-12-10
Make sure you can't find it in Synaptic Package Manager, with extra repositories enabled, before you go installing from source. Add/Remove programs does not give a complete list of repository-available applications.

---

### Post by lamego on 2006-12-10
Unlike on windows and with .rar/.zip to use .tgz files you will probably need to understand how to use the terminal:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/linux-basics.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/6.10/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/linux-basics.html)

---

### Post by corevette on 2006-12-10
just f.y.i. if you really are that beginner, synaptic package manager is in system > administration > synaptic package manager.  to add extra repositories go to settings > repositiories > and check all of them for all the available programs in the repositories.

---

