---
title: "11.04 Unity - manage workspaces"
date: 2011-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-05-21
I like 11.04 with Unity however I would like to find a method of managing workspaces with mouse (not keyboard) which gives constant visual feedback and is faster than using the launcher bar, which although not 'slow', takes time to appear and it then takes time to locate the (non movable) desktop switcher item.

I happily adopt most of what 11.04 (Unity) offers, however, I really still miss the good visual feedback and the single click action that the lower panel (classic) desktop switcher used. Is there a way of me using some item in unity which is closely similar?

tia

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-05-21
I have two mouse side buttons.
and bind them to use
ccsm > Desktop > Expo > Expo Button 
ccsm > Window management > Scale > Bindings > Initiate Window Picker for All Windows

Also have a look at easystroke in the software centre for using mouse gestures.
One of the first programs I install.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-05-21
While I don't mind the WS in unity  - What you could fool around with, several variations

So here - (in screen), have logged into Classic which I don't use - 
Deleted the top panel, made the bottom panel transparent, then opened ccsm, (Alt+t, ccsm) and enabled the unity plugin
Also for this Ex. choose a background with a dark bottom so the line of the bottom panel didn't show.

Works just like unity as far as launcher, unity panel - you can add whatever you want to bottom panel ,ect. ect.

What you'll notice is the bottom panel will cover the bottom of the unity launcher, no big deal, or there are options
(auto-hide, don't  expand ect. ect. (As said a lot of variations of running unity plugin in classic login

---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-05-22
Thanks for the responses. I have progress:
I find that the problem I have is both

1) Launcher autohide (now disabled)
2) Compiz Workspace display configuration (now changed)

It does not fully meet my needs because the workspaces are not permanently in a GUI, but convenience has improved for me.

Here are my actions:
Install CompizConfig Settings manager (CCSM) then use it:
Desktop>Ubuntu Unity plugin>Hide Launcher [never]

I also find the workspace switcher arrangement unhelpful and prefer a linear display of WS's:
again CCSM:
General>General Options>Desktop Size>[horiz 6, vert 1]
(I like 6 workspaces)

I would like to be able to remove the refection effects from this display, still looking for that.......

---

