---
title: "9.10 and Skype 2.1"
date: 2009-12-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by krfulton on 2009-12-08
Skype P2P connect failed issue.

I have seen snippets and bits of information regarding this issue for older releases of Ubuntu and Skype. There seemed to be no resolution for this.

Using Ubuntu 9.10, I have installed Skype 2.1 from Skype's website.
I cannot connect to Skype, I always get a P2P connection failure.
A check of the boards recommended changing the shared.xml file to change the Proxy settings from 1 to 0. This did not change the connection situation, still no joy.

My network configuration is working okay as no other applications have trouble connecting to various sites, protocols and such like. I have a Windows machine and it makes the connection to Skype, so it is not a network issue.

Anyone have any experience in getting Skype to work with Ubuntu 9.10 and will share the secrets thereof?

---

### Post by krfulton on 2009-12-09
*_By no means a solution_*, but after editing the shared.xml file to change the proxy option to "0", then logging out, logging back in and restarting Skype solved the connection issue. Skype now connects.

---

### Post by Suvankar on 2010-04-05
Hi I am using ubuntu 9.04. I hav just installed skype letest version. but when i try to sign in it shows p2p connection failed. I am not able to see the option on skype window. please tell me the solution.

---

### Post by maus on 2010-04-25
I'm having the same problem as Suvankar, except I'm using the package skype-mid on UNR 9.04.

---

### Post by unc0nn3ct3d on 2012-03-12
Had the same thing happen to me yesterday.. Found the answer here: [http://blog.netflowdevelopments.com/2012/03/10/p2p-connect-failed-error-with-skype/](http://blog.netflowdevelopments.com/2012/03/10/p2p-connect-failed-error-with-skype/)

Just delete the shared.xml file and restart

---

