---
title: "nvidia driver / xorg.conf help needed"
date: 2013-09-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Coder88 on 2013-09-06
I have ArtistX (ubuntu) installed, nvidia driving working (ver 304.88 installed via synaptic package manager). The problem is that when i boot into gnome, the bottom taskbar is gone-- until i run /usr/bin/nvidia-settings and check the box in the settings GUI for the graphics card to [x]make this the primary display for the X server; when I do that, and click Apply, the bottom taskbar magically appears. But it does not stick, I have to do this everytime I boot, even though I have the nvidia-settings save the settings to /etc/X11/xorg.conf which i am pasting below. How do i get this to stick so that when I boot into X i have the taskbar visible? :confused:

Ubuntu 12.10 quantal (as ArtistX distro), Gnome Classic desktop, GeForce GTX260 video card, 1920x1020 full HD monitor resolution.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 310.14  (buildd@panlong)  Tue Oct 23 23:37:55 UTC 2012

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer X213H"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 260"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Stereo" "0"
    Option         "nvidiaXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, TV: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2013-09-06
I've previously found the nvidia-settings not loading at boot myself. I got round it by putting an appropriate line in my ~/.xinitrc to load the settings when I log into X. It's supposed to put an entry in the Startup Applications, but that doesn't seem to do anything for some reason.

---

### Post by Coder88 on 2013-09-06
> **CatKiller said:**
> I've previously found the nvidia-settings not loading at boot myself. I got round it by **putting an appropriate line in my ~/.xinitrc to load the settings when I log into X**. It's supposed to put an entry in the Startup Applications, but that doesn't seem to do anything for some reason.

Do tell (please)... ):P

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2013-09-07
```
nvidia-settings --load-config-only &
```

before the ```
. /etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc
``` line.

---

