---
title: "P2p"
date: 2009-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sthrnpagan on 2009-02-25
i am looking for a great P2P program. I know of and have tried programs like emule that use torrents. For some reason im not very good with torrent programs. I am however eager to learn how to use them. Can anyone suggest a good one to use in Ubuntu 8.10?

---

### Post by taurus on 2009-02-25
Transmission, ktorrent, deluge, vuze, etc.

---

### Post by sthrnpagan on 2009-02-25
> **taurus said:**
> Transmission, ktorrent, deluge, vuze, etc.

thank you i will check these out

---

### Post by sthrnpagan on 2009-02-25
> **taurus said:**
> Transmission, ktorrent, deluge, vuze, etc.

alos, i would like to know how to properly use transmission

---

### Post by darco on 2009-02-25
Deluge is better than Transmission in my opinion. Of course you can try them both out yourself.

darco

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-02-25
I also recommend Deluge, though which is better is really a matter of personal preference.  Transmission works fine and is very simple to use, but Deluge offers more features.  Deluge can be found in the Ubuntu repositories, but it's not the most recent version, which you can get either by downloading the deb from the [Deluge website]("http://deluge-torrent.org/"), or by adding the [Deluge PPA]("https://launchpad.net/~deluge-team/+archive/ppa") to your software sources.  

[IsoHunt]("http://isohunt.com/") and [The Pirate Bay]("http://thepiratebay.org/") are both good places to look for torrents.

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2009-02-25
There's always frostwire too :D

---

### Post by Interpreter on 2009-02-26
Are you guys "joking around", cause that sounds so 1999?

[http://oneswarm.cs.washington.edu/index.html]("http://oneswarm.cs.washington.edu/index.html")

---

### Post by konqueror7 on 2009-02-26
deluge for torrent, frostwire for regular p2p...

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2009-02-26
+1 for Deluge, definitely the best I've used.

---

### Post by binbash on 2009-02-26
Dude stick to deluge if you are going to use torrent.It is the best out there

---

### Post by Archmage on 2009-02-26
> **sthrnpagan said:**
> i am looking for a great P2P program. I know of and have tried programs like emule that use torrents. 

eMule isn't using torrents. It is using ed2k-links. For ed2k-links you can use aMule. For torrents something like rtorrent.

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-02-26
> **Interpreter said:**
> Are you guys "joking around", cause that sounds so 1999?

[http://oneswarm.cs.washington.edu/index.html]("http://oneswarm.cs.washington.edu/index.html")

Hrm... let's see.  Should I use Deluge/Transmission/etc., or a torrent client self-described as "research software [...] still under active development", and which aims to provide anonymity but advises to "not rely on [it] for strong anonymity"?  Also, I notice that it only provides that anonymity when sharing with other OneSwarm users (which are relatively few), and not with other bittorrent clients.

Thanks, but I think I'll stick with Deluge/Transmission/etc.  If I want some privacy, I'll use IPBlock to stay away from the bad guys, and if I'm really paranoid I'll go with Tor.  That way I'll have that anonymity no matter what Internet client I'm using, including my web browser.

---

### Post by Interpreter on 2009-03-02
Honestly dont get this the wrong way, I dont do p2p, never installed that swarm thingy there, prolly utter crap tbh.
just saying

but the whole Limewire (make it frostwire ffs), gnutella and whatever...felt kinda out of place so i figured Id "lose it some more" and post that link for total 90s flashback-ism

---

### Post by matthewh427 on 2009-03-18
I have just tried OneSwarm and can only sing of it's praises.  It's a really good program.  Considering it's only three weeks old.  Check this video out intoducing it. 

[http://oneswarm.cs.washington.edu/screencasts_overview.html#screencast_overview]("http://oneswarm.cs.washington.edu/screencasts_overview.html#screencast_overview")

---

