---
title: "11..04 installation went wrong"
date: 2011-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by deafy on 2011-05-05
I ran Ubuntu 10.10 and it was fine.
Then I got notice of upgrade to 11.04, and I went ahead with it.
Now, the computer started up fine to where I see the desktop and everything.
But nothing worked any longer.
Even the mouse went dead.

How do I get it to run again? I could re-install the 10.10, but it would wipe out the files, and lose my bookmarks, etc.

Whats up with that and what do I do now?

---

### Post by ugurthemaster on 2011-05-05
I think the best you can do right now, boot from live cd and backup your files and bookmarks after that you can install ubuntu.
 
I tried couple of times to upgrade my ubuntu to new version and every time I had similar problems. So I decided to install new version from cd and not to use upgrade option.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2011-05-05
First and foremost back up data as stated in previous post. Second you can try to boot from the grub menu. During the boot tap the shift key until the grub menu pops up. Scroll down to the listing including dpkg. I can't recall the exact wording because I'm on my cell but it should include a repair feature.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-05
@deafy, if you need help backing up your personal files and bookmarks from the live CD, post back. Both are doable but fiddly because the "ubuntu" account in the live CD session won't be able to access your files on the hard drive (different UIDs) so you have to use a root nautilus. Also the backup bookmarks files are well hidden. I can post details of how to find them if you want.

---

### Post by deafy on 2011-05-05
> **coffeecat said:**
> @deafy, if you need help backing up your personal files and bookmarks from the live CD, post back. Both are doable but fiddly because the "ubuntu" account in the live CD session won't be able to access your files on the hard drive (different UIDs) so you have to use a root nautilus. Also the backup bookmarks files are well hidden. I can post details of how to find them if you want.

Yes, I do need help with backing up the personal files. Would appreciate it if you would guide me thru that.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-05
> **deafy said:**
> Yes, I do need help with backing up the personal files. Would appreciate it if you would guide me thru that.

No problem. You need a live CD or live USB of Ubuntu and an external USB drive to copy your files to. You can use a flash drive if it's big enough, but if you haven't been making backups of your personal files, I suggest you use two external drives and make two copies of everything. Your personal data is more valuable than the cost of the medium it is written to. Also - it's more convenient if the external drives are formatted with a Microsoft filesystem such as NTFS or FAT32. That's so that we can "lose" the ownership permissions which are going to get in the way in a minute. Be aware that if you have large video files to back up, FAT32 has a 4GB filesize limit.

Boot up the live CD/USB and choose "try Ubuntu". Assuming that you're using the 10.10 version of Ubuntu, go to the Places menu and look for the entry that corresponds with your permanent Ubuntu root partition. **Or**, if you had a separate /home partition, identify that. You will see the partition label if it had one or, if not, the size of the partition. Click on it and a nautilus window will open. You could try opening the home folder and then the folder with your account name, but you will probably get a permission denied error. If you do, close that nautilus window and open a terminal. Now:

```
gksudo nautilus
```

A nautilus window with admin privileges will open. Be careful what you do with it. First, click on "File System" in the 'Places' left pane of the window. That will show you the root of the live filesystem. Double-click on the media folder. In /media will be the mountpoint for your root partition. Its name will either be the partition label if you had one, or the partition UUID if not. You can tell a UUID - a long incomprehensible string. Double-click on the mount folder and you will see the root of the filesystem of your permanent installation - **or**, if you mounted a home partition, you will see that. Open the home folder (if you mounted your root partition) and now open the folder with your account name, and there you have all your personal files.

Now plug in your USB drive, let a second nautilus window open and simply drag and drop any files you want to copy.[B]

Bookmarks.[/B] While in your account home folder, press ctrl-H to reveal hidden files and folders. Double-click on the .mozilla folder. Now open the firefox folder. Now *something*.default, where *something* is a random string. Now the bookmarkbackups folder and you will see a number of *json files. Copy the most recent or copy the lot. Once you've reinstalled Ubuntu, open "manage bookmarks" and you can restore your bookmarks from a json fle.

---

### Post by deafy on 2011-05-05
[QUOTE=coffeecat;10772849]No problem. You need a live CD or live USB of Ubuntu and an external USB drive to copy your files to. You can use a flash drive if it's big enough, but if you haven't been making backups of your personal files, I suggest you use two external drives and make two copies of everything. Your personal data is more valuable than the cost of the medium it is written to. Also - it's more convenient if the external drives are formatted with a Microsoft filesystem such as NTFS or FAT32. That's so that we can "lose" the ownership permissions which are going to get in the way in a minute. Be aware that if you have large video files to back up, FAT32 has a 4GB filesize limit.

Boot up the live CD/USB and choose "try Ubuntu". Assuming that you're using the 10.10 version of Ubuntu, go to the Places menu and look for the entry that corresponds with your permanent Ubuntu root partition. **Or**, if you had a separate /home partition, identify that. You will see the partition label if it had one or, if not, the size of the partition. Click on it and a nautilus window will open. You could try opening the home folder and then the folder with your account name, but you will probably get a permission denied error. If you do, close that nautilus window and open a terminal. Now:

```
gksudo nautilus
```

------------------------------------

Typed "gksudo nautilus" as you directed, and that is what I got when it failed.

Initializing nautilus-gdu extension

** (nautilus:16488): WARNING **: Failed to get the current CK session: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.ConsoleKit.Manager.GeneralError: Unable to lookup session information for process '16488'

(nautilus:16488_): GConf-CRITICAL **: gconf_value_free: assertion 'value != NULL' failed
Nautilus-Share-Message: Called "net usershare info" but it failed: 'net usershare' returned error 255: net usershare: cannot open usershare directory /var/lib/samba/usershares. Error No such file or directory
Please ask your system administrator to enable user sharing.


(nautilus:16488): GLib-GIO-WARNING **: Missing callback called fullpath = /root/.config/user-dirs.dirs

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-06
> **deafy said:**
> Typed "gksudo nautilus" as you directed, and that is what I got when it failed.

Yes, but did a nautilus window open?

---

### Post by deafy on 2011-05-06
> **coffeecat said:**
> Yes, but did a nautilus window open?


It didn't     but then, when I tried it again this AM, it did, and without that "fail" message, too

dunno why that happened ... 

Thanks... I will go ahead and install 11.04

Appreciate the help

---

### Post by deafy on 2011-05-07
It is working perfectly, but I don't like the changes that the 11.04 did ... the 10.10 was more user friendly than the 11.04 

Anyway, I have problems re-inserting my favorites into my new firefox. It wouldn't import the old one, and I am guessing I need to go to the "gksudo nautilus" route to do it?

But then, I couldn't find the terminal" button ... (This is one of what I mean by "not user friendly")

And, the browser does not show pictures at one site that I had no problems with when using 10.10, and the firefox shows a completely different view of my Yahoo mailbox. Many of the buttons disappeared there 

What's going on here?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-05-08
> **deafy said:**
> Anyway, I have problems re-inserting my favorites into my new firefox. It wouldn't import the old one, and I am guessing I need to go to the "gksudo nautilus" route to do it?

There have been one or two minor changes in Firefox 4 which have confused some people. Go to the Bookmarks menu (in the upper panel) and choose "Show all bookmarks". The familiar bookmarks library window will open. The menus for that are also in the upper panel but invisible until you hove the mouse over where they are. Choose "Import and Backup" and then "Restore" and you should be able to restore from the json file you rescued.

---

### Post by deafy on 2011-05-08
Thanks...

---

### Post by deafy on 2011-05-09
I would like to know why this happens. Even tho my account is working alright, my son's acct is not. (To be more accurate, I have noticed that mine do vary some, with the  top black space being either about quarter of an inch or at other  times, it is at eighth of an inch wide, with icons on side being proportional to it.)
When we are signed into his account, the display on screen is something like what we would see in the "safe mode" when using the Windows XP. Everything is big and oversized, like being a half an inch wide or more.
And, when we log off his acct, sometimes it would just mess up the screen so bad that all we can see is really bad static-like streaks all over the screen and nothing can be seen at all. Only possible way out of that is to turn off the computer and try again. 
Once, it came back on with everything in proper size, like it is on my acct. But then, in a short while, it reverts back to that "safe mode" look again. Rest of time, when I restarted, it always reverts to that giant display, and only on his acct. Why is it doing this?


And ... When I start up the computer, the monitor displays this message ... "Attention  93K  53Hz   frequency out of range" that the monitor is off a bit. What can I do about that?

And thirdly ... I asked about this before ... that the sites are not being properly displayed, that some sites I go to a lot is not displaying any pictures, and even in the Yahoo mailbox, it is not the same. Familiar things like existence of a blue field on left side of the mail list is not blue at all. Many boxes of buttons are messed up, displaying that there is supposed to be something there, but isn't being shown.
What is the problem here?

Thank you for being patient, and I do appreciate your help in past. Hope that those things would be solved soon, as it is really interfering with my work online, the way things are here.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-11
You are having so much trouble that I can only recommend a fresh install of 11.04 (or better, 10.10). 

Here is some advice which might help you:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857)

---

### Post by deafy on 2011-05-16
> **mörgæs said:**
> You are having so much trouble that I can only recommend a fresh install of 11.04 (or better, 10.10). 

Here is some advice which might help you:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1580857)

OK

I did install the 10.10, onto another drive, to compare the two
And yeah, it ran a lot better

Then coming back here, I noticed that you said "(or better, 10.10)"

Whys that? Is there something here that I didn't know, or is it a personal opinion?


By the way, that site you referred me to, was very helpful. It gave me some insights ... I guess I have a lot to learn here!

Thanks!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-05-17
Thank you too. Please mark the thread 'solved'.

I mentioned 10.10 because of your post #10. It sounded like you preferred this one.

---

