---
title: "Lubuntu 13.10 - Can't get apps to run at log-in."
date: 2014-01-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SweetBearCub on 2014-01-26
I'm relatively new to Linux, and have only basic knowledge. This is my first attempt at running Linux on a machine without Windows to boot it, except on my desktop. The machine in question is an Acer C720-2800 Chromebook, with 4 GB RAM and an Intel Haswell-based Celeron processor.

In LXDE/Openbox (the default environment), I need to get several programs to autostart. Compton, xbindkeys (I think that's the name), and perhaps others later for when I get an OSD up and running.

Following the directions **[HERE]("https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/openbox#autostart")**, I tried to edit 2 or 3 different files (Well, all autostart files, just in different places) to get Compton running (that's the only autostart program I have installed right now), but I've had no luck. Compton is never started.

I know there's at least one other I edited, I was listed in the wiki I linked to, I know part of it had the xdg directory in the command. Anyhow, one I could readily find in the wiki was "~/.config/openbox/autostart".

All autostart files I edited has the same line:

```
compton -b &
```

In theory, that should start Compton. It failed. Compton is not/was not listed in the list of running processes, generated by the TOP command.

Help!

---

### Post by jeanjd63 on 2014-01-26
Hello

May be you can try with the complet path of the command :
ex :
/usr/bin/command &

---

### Post by SweetBearCub on 2014-01-26
How do I determine the complete path of the file?

Also, Compton is listed in the "Accessories" section of the main menu. If I delete it (as running it from the DE is kind of pointless), would that delete the program itself, or is the entry in the menu only a shortcut, and this safe to delete?

Thanks.

---

### Post by jeanjd63 on 2014-01-26
by the command :
**whereis command**

---

### Post by mcduck on 2014-01-26
```
which programname
``` will return the path to the executable file of *programname*. Although almost always the executable of an user-level application will be /usr/bin/*programname*.

What comes to deleting things from the menus, that will indeed just remove the menu entry, not the program. It would be quite horrible, especially on a multi-user system, if people were able to uninstall stuff just by editing their personal desktop menus... ;)

---

### Post by SweetBearCub on 2014-01-26
Using "whereis compton" gave me (I think, this is from memory) /usr/bin/compton, which I copied and pasted into the autostart file, retaining the -b parameter and the & line terminator.

I saved the file, quit the editor, and rebooted the machine, but, no soap. Compton did not appear to be running (It casts a subtle visual effect on the DE menu, and some fade effects), and also did not appear when I ran 'top' in terminal.

Any more ideas?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-01-26
I made a shell script for compton in my home and pointed the startup list to it with full pathway, ie /home/*username*/compton.sh

My script was ```
#!/bin/bash
compton --backend glx --vsync opengl-swc
``` the options needed for best use with an intel HD4000 integrated graphic chip.

It works brilliantly, and extremely fast, with a default gtkperf figure, using sna rendering, of 
Total time:  1.63

---

### Post by SweetBearCub on 2014-01-26
Can you please show me how to create a script (and mark it as executable, if I need to) and what entry I should try placing in the autostart file?

Also, your code starts with a pound sign, doesn't that signify a comment, and anything following on that line doesn't get executed?

Also, the Celeron 2955u does not have HD Graphics 4000. It has another version of HD Graphics, number unknown. Either Intel hasn't published it, or who knows? Here are the details. [Intel HD Graphics (Haswell)]("http://www.notebookcheck.net/Intel-HD-Graphics-Haswell.93341.0.html").

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-01-26
The script content is exactly as I show in my last post, and in the case of a shell script the # at the start of the line is not a comment mark; it's part of the crunch-bang (#!) that tells the systerm it is a script, followed by the executable to be used, /bin/bash, the shell used by Ubuntu.  The second line is the command to be run by bash.

Try the same compton command options as a start and if there is a problem search for better possibilities for your graphics, starting at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2144468](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2144468)

---

### Post by SweetBearCub on 2014-01-26
Interesting.

When I tried that compton command in the terminal (just the second line), instead of running and leaving me with a prompt (where I could close the terminal and have compton still running), this did not return a prompt when run, and killed compton when I closed the terminal window. Still, it did not throw any errors.

I created the script file and named it compton.sh, however when I tried to execute the script at the terminal (in my home folder), it threw an error that the command "compton.sh: command not found". Nonetheless, I did add the script to the autostart file referenced in my first post.

But, a further question. Let's say that I edit the autostart file to contain nothing but "gedit &", in theory, when I log in, gedit should start with a blank file, right? (As I can type "gedit" in terminal without quotation marks, and it starts up just like that)... It doesn't. So, does that mean that I'm editing the wrong file? If so, what is the right file?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-01-26
> **SweetBearCub said:**
> Interesting.

[COLOR=#ff0000]1][/COLOR] When I tried that compton command in the terminal (just the second line), instead of running and leaving me with a prompt (where I could close the terminal and have compton still running), this did not return a prompt when run, and killed compton when I closed the terminal window. Still, it did not throw any errors.

[COLOR=#ff0000]2] [/COLOR]I created the script file and named it compton.sh, however when I tried to execute the script at the terminal (in my home folder), it threw an error that the command "compton.sh: command not found". Nonetheless, I did add the script to the autostart file referenced in my first post.

[COLOR=#ff0000]3][/COLOR] But, a further question. Let's say that I edit the autostart file to contain nothing but "gedit &", in theory, when I log in, gedit should start with a blank file, right? (As I can type "gedit" in terminal without quotation marks, and it starts up just like that)... It doesn't. So, does that mean that I'm editing the wrong file? If so, what is the right file?
[COLOR=#ff0000]1][/COLOR] Running that command in terminal then closing the terminal will always stop compton on terminal closure.  No errors when it was running means that compton was running fine.  Using the same command in the Alt+F2 run box would have made it run for the session without a terminal being needed.

[COLOR=#ff0000]2] [/COLOR]Having made the script file you need to make it executable either by right click and marking it as executable in the permissions tab, or simply by running ```
chmod +x compton.sh
``` assuming the script is in your home folder.

[COLOR=#ff0000]3][/COLOR] For your problem here I suggest you look below at the autostart info for LXDE and Lubuntu, as depending on where yu added the autostart command it may be wrong.  These are real examples from when I used Lubuntu 12.04.

> LXDE autostart applications are a bit more complicated than some other DEs, with several places where different syntax commands can be used..

Include command to start apps in list in:-
/home/username/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart
    eg,
    
parcellite            *#normal command*
gmail-notify-delay        *#shell script copied to /usr/bin*
bash -c "sleep 10; conky" [I]#   compound command to give 10 second delay (could also use **conky -p 10**)
[/I]
Other items go in 
    /etc/xdg/autostart    as the .desktop configuration file 
or
    /etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart    in form
    
@nm-applet
@lxpanel --profile Lubuntu
@xscreensaver -no-splash
@xfce4-power-manager
@pcmanfm --desktop --profile lubuntu
@/usr/lib/policykit-1-gnome/polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1
@notap *#(this is a shell script I made to stop trackpad tap-to-click, made executable and I then copied it to/usr/bin*


---

### Post by SweetBearCub on 2014-01-26
I tried your suggestions, but still cannot get my autostarts to run right. See some pictures here detailing the problems: [http://www.imgur.com/a/Jg55q]("http://www.imgur.com/a/Jg55q")

Perhaps you'll see something I've missed?

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2014-01-27
When running a script in terminal you need to enter the full path to the script...
```
[COLOR="#FF0000"]/home/mathanbear[/COLOR]/compton.sh
```
**[SIZE=3]or[/SIZE]**
```
[COLOR="#FF0000"]~[/COLOR]/compton.sh
```
**[COLOR="#FF0000"]~[/COLOR]** is the same as /home/mathanbear or in my case /home/glen
**[SIZE=3]or[/SIZE]**
You can use **./** and parially type the name and hit Tab to autocomplete when the script is in the directory where the terminal is opened to.
The terminal opens to your home directory by default, so you can enter...
 ```
**./**compton.sh
```
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/UsingTheTerminal](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuStudio/UsingTheTerminal)



Also when I log into the Lubuntu session my **~/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart** file looks like this.
No need for the trailing **&**'s 
```
/usr/lib/policykit-1-gnome/polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1
eval $(gnome-keyring-daemon -s --components=pkcs11,secrets,ssh,gpg)

nitrogen --restore
tint2
pulseaudio
cairo-dock -c
glipper
easystroke
kupfer --no-splash
gnote --background
conky -p 1 -c /home/glen/conky/configs/openbox-panel.conkyrc
conky -p 1 -c /home/glen/conky/configs/release-Lubuntu.conkyrc
conky -p 5 -c /home/glen/conky/configs/weather-waters.conkyrc
volumeicon
```


Whereas when logging into the openbox session, it uses a different autostart @ **~/.config/openbox/autostart** 
```
## Openbox autostart
## ====================
## Note*: some programs, such as 'nm-applet' are run via XDG auto-start.
## Run '/usr/lib/openbox/openbox-xdg-autostart --list' to list any
## XDG autostarted programs.

## GNOME PolicyKit and Keyring
/usr/lib/policykit-1-gnome/polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1 &
eval $(gnome-keyring-daemon -s --components=pkcs11,secrets,ssh,gpg) &


#Starts Nitogen and restore wallpaper from previous session
nitrogen --restore &

# start up the tint2 task bar
tint2 &

# start conky
conky -p 3 &
conky -p 3 -c /home/glen/conky/configs/release-Lubuntu.conkyrc &
conky -p 5 -c /home/glen/conky/configs/openbox-panel.conkyrc &
#conky -p 5 -c /home/glen/conky/configs/gmail-conkyrc &

# Start up power management
#xfce4-power-manager &

# Start the Clipboard manager after 3 seconds wait
(sleep 3s && glipper) &
```

---

### Post by SweetBearCub on 2014-01-27
Thanks, using the full path worked!

---

