---
title: "14.04 graphical glitches on install but not live USB."
date: 2014-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by qepltab on 2014-04-22
Hey there,

After installing 14.04 I've got some pretty serious graphical glitches going on. Parts of the screen won't update until the mouse is near them, sometimes the screen looks like a patchwork of little squares that are one pixel off where they should be, and more. Things are also generally fairly slow, there's some text input lag too (but I'm not sure if this is caused by a deeper problem or just that the screen isn't rendering it very fast).

Interestingly none of these problems crop up when running from the live USB. I'm running an AMD HD5850, the first thing I did after seeing these issues was install the proprietary driver. Experiences:

[U]From the settings panel
[/U]This will install just fine (either fglrx or fglrx-updates) but on reboot I get the "your system is running in low-graphics mode" message. Trying to drop into the terminal, or do just about anything really, results in the system hanging never to recover.
[U]
Manual install
[/U]Attempting to install the 13.12 driver (what the AMD site recommends for the 5850) manually results in a failure part-way through installation. The logs have this message in them:```
[Error] Kernel Module : Failed to compile kernel module - please consult readme.
```
Both of which I've only be able to fix by reinstall (which I've done a few times now).

_System specs_
According to the Settings > Details > Overview page, anyway:

Memory: 15.6 GB
Processor: Intel Core i5-4670 CPU
Graphics: Callium 0.4 on AMD CYPRESS
OS type: 64-bit
Disk: 8.4 GB (ignore this, I'm posting this from a live USB)

Does anyone have an idea of what's going on? All help appreciated! Let me know if I can provide more information.

Cheers

---

### Post by nuttzo31 on 2014-04-22
Try installing the amd driver from the xorg edgers ppa instead of a manual install.

---

### Post by qepltab on 2014-04-22
Thanks, will do. I've also just noticed that, when installed the Overview page lists "Intel Haswell Desktop" as the graphics, not AMD Cypress as it does from the live USB. Is this meaningful? I would have expected that the dedicated graphics card would get precedence over integrated graphics.

---

### Post by qepltab on 2014-04-22
No dice installing the driver from the edgers ppa unfortunately, the same behaviour from before.

---

### Post by nuttzo31 on 2014-04-22
Are you able to completely disable the hd4000 graphics from the bios and enable amd as the primary driver?

Maybe try a fresh install again?

---

### Post by qepltab on 2014-04-22
Hey, that worked! Thanks for the help nuttzo.

---

