---
title: "[8.04] Phpmyadmin is broken"
date: 2009-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hakker on 2009-08-19
For some reason my phpmyadmin is broken and this is the bottom part of the phpinfo page I get instead

> Warning: Cannot modify header information - headers already sent by (output started at /var/lib/phpmyadmin/config.inc.php:14) in /usr/share/phpmyadmin/libraries/core.lib.php on line 605

Warning: Cannot modify header information - headers already sent by (output started at /var/lib/phpmyadmin/config.inc.php:14) in /usr/share/phpmyadmin/libraries/auth/config.auth.lib.php on line 81


Welcome to phpMyAdmin 2.11.3deb1ubuntu1.2

phpMyAdmin tried to connect to the MySQL server, and the server rejected the connection. You should check the host, username and password in your configuration and make sure that they correspond to the information given by the administrator of the MySQL server.
Error

MySQL said: Documentation
#1045 - Access denied for user '********'@'localhost' (using password: NO)
Invalid hostname for server 1. Please review your configuration.
The strange part is that the user in question has a password, but then again I should get some phpmyadmin login screen.

What I did so far was install all remaining updates till the point of the post just to make sure.
removed and installed phpmyadmin again
dkgp it from another post
a reboot.
however for some reason none works. 

hopefully someone can help me get it back because I would like to grab some backups  of the db's manually once in a while  and I find this a lot easier than with the cli :)

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-08-19
Post your config...

---

### Post by Hakker on 2009-08-20
[see the config here](http://hakker.hopto.org/phpinfo.php)

It's all just a default install.

---

### Post by Hakker on 2009-08-22
does anyone might have an idea?

---

### Post by BackwardsDown on 2009-08-22
Try to do a "sudo dpkg-reconfigure phpmyadmin", so you can set a new password for phpmyadmin.

---

### Post by Hakker on 2009-08-23
> **BackwardsDown said:**
> Try to do a "sudo dpkg-reconfigure phpmyadmin", so you can set a new password for phpmyadmin.
Well I did that before and just in case again.

The only thing I get to do is select with version I use eg Apache 1 or 2 then it closes.

I restarted to even make sure if that would help but the same problem stays.

---

### Post by BackwardsDown on 2009-08-23
Already tried to purge and reinstall?

---

### Post by Hakker on 2009-08-23
> **BackwardsDown said:**
> Already tried to purge and reinstall?
read the first post please.

---

### Post by Hakker on 2009-08-25
I guess this one is somewhat of a mystery :(

---

