---
title: "9.10 Lightweight GUI install"
date: 2010-02-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Overcast32 on 2010-02-10
I'm looking to install a 'lighter weight' GUI on Ubuntu 9.10 Server, it's up now, just at the prompt. 

I don't want to go ultra-stipped down, but perhaps a bit less.. I was thinking 'Xubuntu' - any suggestions on something that's supported well?

If I want to do Xbuntu will this work ok in 9.10? >> ```
sudo apt-get install xubuntu-desktop

```
I want a minimal Nautilus or something similar, and access to desktop apps like a clock, editor, etc - nothing too fancy.

The system will be doing web content filtering, I tried Fluxbox, but something happened and goofed up the routing, so since it's not critical or anything and was running 9.04 - thought I'd just do a fresh install. Fluxbox.. seemed cool, but it might be a bit more manual config that I was hoping for.

Gnome would work ok too, if it's real light.  Found this >> ```
sudo aptitude  install --no-install-recommends ubuntu-desktop
```  - but not sure how light that is or if 9.10 is ok with it.

Want to keep this machine a server more than anything and will likely not have it load a GUI by default.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-02-10
If you like XFCE, you can try installing the xfce4 package. This will not install all the extra Xubuntu desktop functionality.
[Click To Install]("apt://xfce4")

More help here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerGUI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerGUI)

---

### Post by Overcast32 on 2010-02-10
> **NightwishFan said:**
> If you like XFCE, you can try installing the xfce4 package. This will not install all the extra Xubuntu desktop functionality.
[Click To Install]("apt://xfce4")

More help here:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerGUI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ServerGUI)

Thanks for the reply, I'll check it out - I ran across that too (page). Is there a way to install with apt-get?

..install xfce4?

Sorry, I'm still fairly 'noob' to Linux - well.. with more than basic 'toying around'

edit: well.. that seems to have worked ;)  or at least in the process, heh

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-02-10
Where is my mind.... :o The machine in question is a server.... :KS
```
sudo apt-get install xfce4
```

---

### Post by Overcast32 on 2010-02-10
> **NightwishFan said:**
> Where is my mind.... :o The machine in question is a server.... :KS
```
sudo apt-get install xfce4
```

That's what I thought when you said 'package' anyways :) It's installing now - thanks a ton!

---

### Post by Dennis Brown on 2010-02-11
Greetings all!
I'm having exactly the same problem, that is my attempts to install ubuntu-desktop or xubuntu-desktop or xfce4 using the following command line syntax fail due to package not found:
sudo apt-get install xfce4
Does anyone know a web source that I can install from using aptitude or apt-get?  
Any help greatly appreciated.
Thank-you,
Dennis

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-02-11
You need to run:
```
sudo aptitude update
```

If there are errors you need to configure you software sources.

---

### Post by Hman242 on 2010-02-11
I've heard that Lubuntu is also fairly lightweight.

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2010-02-11
I do not believe you have apt-get until after you have installed synaptic. As stated use aptitude.

---

### Post by MJBoa on 2010-02-11
What? Apt-get functions at a lower level than aptitude. Apt-get comes with any ubuntu install.

If you like GNOME but just want less bloat and feel like a fresh install, check out this topic.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1155961](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1155961)

It's might require a little bit more configuration to get to the same level with audio and video, but that kinda work builds character; you might learn something!

---

### Post by Dennis Brown on 2010-02-11
Thank-you all!  I reached the point where I was going to wipe out my Ubuntu server installation and re-install the Desktop version of 9.10.  At the last moment I reconsidered and decided to partition my hard drive so I'd be able to install *both* versions.  I started with the server re-install, and in doing so I discovered that the first install hadn't finished by a long shot!  The Apache web server was running and MySQL was Ok, but I was missing a lot of packages!  On the new install I'm confident that it will all come together.  
Thanks again,
Dennis

---

