---
title: "9.10 EXT4 Runs Hotter"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by syga on 2009-10-30
Any reason why 9.10 with Ext4 would run hotter than 9.04 with Ext3?

With 9.04 my laptop fan would rarely turn on. With 9.10, my fan turns on every 2 - 3 minutes...

---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-10-30
For the record, ext4 almost definitely has nothing to do with it.  It could be an issue with CPU stepping.  There's an applet you can add to your panel ('CPU freq.' or something similar) which will show you the percentage of your CPU that is being used.

---

### Post by syga on 2009-10-30
I have the applet, its the same as in 9.04.

I have a 1.7g cpu that is running at 800mhz, its set to "on demand", its the same settings I had in 9.04

I do know that 9.10 with ext4 runs faster for me. Maybe there's a trade off between faster running and heat?

---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-10-30
Your drive would only create more heat if it is being accessed more or more often.  This is possible, but I *very much* doubt the filesystem would be the cause.

The command-line tool **iotop** can give you an idea how much it is being accessed.  You may have to install it though (just **sudo apt-get install iotop** I think), it isn't installed by default in 9.04.

What kind of machine are you running?  If you have a graphics card (as opposed to onboard graphics), could it be the GPU fan you are hearing?

---

### Post by syga on 2009-10-31
Did some testing, reinstalled 9.10 with ext3, still ran hot. I could let the laptop just idle and the temperature would rise to a point where the fan would turn on.

Reinstalled 9.04 with ext3. Laptop stays cool. Fan rarely turns on. I can let the laptop sit for a hour, the temperature will stay steady and the fan will not come on. 

Seems that 9.10 runs hotter than 9.04

If this was a desktop, where the fan would be running all the time, I would not notice this. But since this is a laptop where you would like to conserve battery life, its a problem..

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2009-10-31
Maybe cpufreq scaling is not working properly or something...

try installing few things that helped friend with similar prob in 9.04 for some reason

sudo apt-get install acpi
sudo apt-get install lm-sensors

Those might help for some reason... think those are commands we ran that cooled his down a bit on 9.04. It could help :shrug:

---

### Post by syga on 2009-11-04
I just like to say that I installed PCLOS 2009.2

With PCLOS my laptop fan very rarely turns on. The CPU temp averages about 112 degrees F.

With Ubuntu 9.10, my cpu temp averages about 130 degrees F., even at idle. The fan turns on often.

I don't know what the problem with Ubuntu is, but I know there is a problem...

---

### Post by syga on 2009-11-07
Found a fix? for Ubuntu 9.10 running hot.

Did some googling and added this to /etc/default/grub

noapictimer irqpoll noapic noatime

Not exactly sure what all these do, but now my temperatures dropped aprox. 20 degrees F. Now its stable at 115 degrees F. 

I can even plug my laptop air vents, and the temps will still stay low, unless I'm running some cpu hungry apps.

The laptop I'm using is a Dell Insprion with a AMD64 Athlon X2, with 32 bit Ubuntu.

Just as an experiment, I'm going to install the 64 bit Ubuntu and not alter grub, and see if that is a better solution...

---

