---
title: "11.04 Issues Perfect install but . . ."
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by asnd16 on 2011-04-28
I am running a Toshiba Net Book.  The install prompted this morning and worked all day downloading and installing. It worked just fine after reboot.  

I do notice its a little slower on my computer.  I have 2gb of ram but it still is sludgier.  But how do I get rid of the side menu . . basiclly how do I log into Ubuntu Version not the Netbook version, because I cannot right click and add the weather to the top menu bar.   

A):P

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-04-28
Do look at this but when you start entering the password at the login screen, look at the bottom of the screen and change Ubuntu to Ubuntu Classic.

[http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity](http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity)

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2011-04-28
> **asnd16 said:**
> I am running a Toshiba Net Book.  The install prompted this morning and worked all day downloading and installing. It worked just fine after reboot.  

I do notice its a little slower on my computer.  I have 2gb of ram but it still is sludgier.  But how do I get rid of the side menu . . basiclly how do I log into Ubuntu Version not the Netbook version, because I cannot right click and add the weather to the top menu bar.   

A):P

When you first login before you complete password look below at the box it will allow you to select Ubuntu Classic desktop.  You will have top and bottom panels and more old school gnome.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-28
Here are the 3 UIs to choose from in Natty/11.04: [**_Natty Info: Your UI options_**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741293")


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by nm_geo on 2011-04-29
> **Hedgehog1 said:**
> Here are the 3 UIs to choose from in Natty/11.04: [**_Natty Info: Your UI options_**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741293")


***The Hedge***

:KS

That is a very cool link Hedge.. Very helpful..

---

