---
title: "10.04 install - SCP issue - upstart issue"
date: 2010-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lesemi on 2010-05-21
I recently install (clean install from CD) ubuntu 10.04 32 bit on one of my machines.  I've been an ubuntu user since the breezy days.  I was having a few issues since the install so i downloaded another CD and re-installed fresh and the same issues are occuring - here they are in order - 

1- the installation freezes at 95% on 'running dpkg'.  I remove the CD and reboot and the system comes on.  I run dpkg --reconfigure -a.
then apt-get install -f
then apt-get update and dist-upgrade. 
all seems to run smoothly.

2- while i'm scp'ing files from another machine on lan - the system crashes sporatically.  The whole machine shuts off and on other occasion gdm crashes only.  this happens with SCP and sftp.

3- installed nfs-kernel-server - i cannot mount an nfs directory for the life of me.  my /etc/exports is fine (ie works on my other machines).  The problems lies with portmap upstart.  prior to 10.04 i used to restart a process through /etc/init.d/portmap restart for instance - now it kicks off the message to use service portmap restart.
i get the Warning: Fake initctl called, doing nothing.

this message actually comes on for all processes - not just limited to portmap.

So far this upgrade has been nothing but heck for me - 

any idea - help would be appreciated at this point before i downgrade the machine.

---

### Post by whelks_chance on 2010-07-07
First post here, and sorry if this message is considered too old to answer. 

I've spent all evening trying to find a solution to this as I suffered the exact same problem (crashing at 95% during installation of 10.04) and have been trying to get samba (smbd) running. All services were being stopped from running automatically, specifically smbd, vboxdrv and anything dpkg-reconfigure tried to achieve.

Eventually I narrowed down the problem of non-visible shared folders to the "initctl" part of "Upstart".

Many posts in the forums suggested downgrading upstart to solve a similar sounding problem, but this option (selecting a previous version in synaptic - greyed out) wasn't available.

So - to solve the problem, and get rid of all the "Warning: Fake initctl called, doing nothing" messages, I resorted to drastic measures, namely:
  
      ```
$ sudo rm -rf /sbin/initctl
```

followed by

     ```
 $ sudo apt-get install upstart
```

(or reinstall in synaptic if install cant be persuaded to refresh it)

which refreshed everything and now all services are able to run without throwing errors.

Hopefully this will be of help to somebody, (and sorry to use rm -rf in a help guide!)

---

