---
title: "Extended SMART test fails at 90% remaining?"
date: 2024-07-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jaw3000 on 2024-07-18
I've been trying to run an extended SMART test in linux using smartctl on a HGST 12TB drive to check for bad blocks and failures, and I'm having issues. The short test works fine, and says the drive is fine. The time estimate for the long test is 1 minute. There is no way that is accurate. I started the long test, and 24 hours later, it's still at 10% complete or 90% remaining and has not changed since the first few minutes of running the test. The test has obviously failed and is not going to complete.


Any idea how I can get the extended test to run and actually complete? Would there be a different tool than smartctl that would be better to use here? Any advice would be appreciated.


Running sudo smartctl -x /dev/sdb for a status gives:


```
=== START OF READ SMART DATA SECTION ===
SMART overall-health self-assessment test result: PASSED
General SMART Values:
Offline data collection status: (0x80) Offline data collection activity
was never started.
Auto Offline Data Collection: Enabled.
Self-test execution status: ( 249) Self-test routine in progress...
90% of test remaining.
Total time to complete Offline
data collection: ( 87) seconds.
Offline data collection
capabilities: (0x5b) SMART execute Offline immediate.
Auto Offline data collection on/off support.
Suspend Offline collection upon new
command.
Offline surface scan supported.
Self-test supported.
No Conveyance Self-test supported.
Selective Self-test supported.
SMART capabilities: (0x0003) Saves SMART data before entering
power-saving mode.
Supports SMART auto save timer.
Error logging capability: (0x01) Error logging supported.
General Purpose Logging supported.
Short self-test routine
recommended polling time: ( 1) minutes.
Extended self-test routine
recommended polling time: ( 1) minutes.
SCT capabilities: (0x003d) SCT Status supported.
SCT Error Recovery Control supported.
SCT Feature Control supported.
SCT Data Table supported.

```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-07-19
If you can show the exact, full command and all the output from each command, maybe someone could be more helpful.

SMART requires 3 steps.

1. Run the type of test you want.
2. Wait until the test completes.
3. Run the report for the most recent test.

I've made lots of assumptions.  Like that you know only IDE, SCSI and SATA devices work with smartctl.
If a strange disk controller is involved, you'll need to tell the smartctl command about that, for every run - test or report.
SMART is next to useless for NVMe SSDs.  There are other tools for those.

short tests take a few minutes - about 1-4.
long tests take hours. When I run long tests, sometimes they are estimated to take over 14 hours, so I just wait until the following day to run the reports.

Most, if not all, of this is documented in the smartctl manpage.

smartctl -x doesn't run any test.  From the manpage:
```
       -x, --xall
              Prints all SMART and non-SMART information about the device.  For ATA de&#8208;
              vices this is equivalent to
              '-H  -i  -g  all  -g  wcreorder  -c  -A  -f  brief  -l  xerror,error   -l
              xselftest,selftest -l selective -l directory -l scttemp -l scterc -l dev&#8208;
              stat -l defects -l sataphy'.
              and for SCSI, this is equivalent to
              '-H -i -g all -A -l error -l selftest -l background -l sasphy'.
              For NVMe, this is equivalent to
              '-H -i -c -A -l error'.
```

If the disk or the disk controller is dying, SMART tests may not work.  The most use for SMART test results is to see how they change over time.  I happen to have a really old HDD failing now.  About 2.5 weeks ago, was the first time I had any indication it was beginning to have problems.  Every day, smartd has been emailing me with more and more block errors, so when it went from 0 --> 2, I got an email.  The next day, it was 16, then 86, then 200, then 569, then 1500, ..... on 7/18 the email said:

```
This message was generated by the smartd daemon running on:

   host name:  hadar
   DNS domain: [Empty]

The following warning/error was logged by the smartd daemon:

Device: /dev/sdd [SAT], ATA error count increased from 2213 to 2223

Device info:
Hitachi HUA723020ALA641, S/N:xxxxxxxxx, WWN:5-000cca-223c1ac77, FW:MK7OA840, 2.00 TB

For details see host's SYSLOG.

You can also use the smartctl utility for further investigation.
The original message about this issue was sent at Wed Jul 10 04:27:23 2024 EDT
Another message will be sent in 24 hours if the problem persists.
```
so I had 8 days of being told issues were happening.  Actually, after then 2nd day with more than a few errors, I moved all the data on the RAID1 disk to another 2 month old HDD, so I've been letting it fail just for fun.  If smartd isn't emailing you, then I'd highly recommend you setup and MTA on your systems to get these notifications.  **logwatch** is another good tool. I have logwatch email me daily with any system issues. It makes a nice summary and allows customization, if you like.  I would caution against emailing system log information to any external systems or emails.  Sometimes there is sensitive data contained.

This morning, I removed the RAID mount and umounted the storage.  /proc/mdstat didn't have any complaints in it.
```
$ more /proc/mdstat 
Personalities : [raid1] [linear] [multipath] [raid0] [raid6] [raid5] [raid4] [raid10] 
md1 : active raid1 sdc3[2] sdd2[3]
      1943010816 blocks super 1.2 [2/2] [UU]

```
Tomorrow morning, during an approved maintenance window for the system, I'll remove all the RAID drives (there are 4) and add a new spare to delay mirror the data on that 2 month old "new" HDD.  This will effectively take out 4x2TB HDDs and replace them with 2x8TB HDDs with longer warranties.  The average age of those 2TB HDDs is over 7 yrs, so it was about time.  I got reasonable value from them.  After all, all storage is going to fail.  We just want those failures to be minor inconveniences, like I'm having, not total data loss event.
BTW, I have automatic, daily, versioned, backups for most of this data too, so the local mirror is just for my convenience.

---

### Post by jaw3000 on 2024-07-19
Thanks for the responses. I am aware what SMART is and how it works, and have been running SMART tests for 20 years. In this particular case, I'm attempting to run a long/extended test to check for bad blocks against an HGST/WD 12TB enterprise SATA drive, connected via SATA. There are no USB controllers. I also know an extended test should take about 24 hours or longer, which is why I posted the -X output (time estimates and status of running test) showing 1 minute for the extended test. Something doesn't seem right.

I'm running: sudo smartctl -t long -C /dev/sdb

The test seems to fail soon after I start it, giving either a "Manually aborted" at 10% status error. I'm not sure if something is timing out or if something else is going on. The short tests finish without issue and say everything is fine.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-07-19
```
-C, --captive
              [ATA]  Runs self-tests in captive mode.  This has no effect with '-t off&#8208;
              line' or if the '-t' option is not used.

              WARNING: Tests run in captive mode may busy out the drive for the  length
              of the test.  Only run captive tests on drives without any mounted parti&#8208;
              tions!

              [SCSI] Runs the self-test in "Foreground" mode.
```

I've never used -C.  Try the tests without it?

---

### Post by jaw3000 on 2024-07-19
I've tried with and without -C. I was thinking it may have been timing out in background mode so I tried captive/foreground. There is no mounted partition so it should be fine.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2024-07-19
Any errors in dmesg ... perhaps showing cable issues or something crazy?

I assume all the other storage devices in the system aren't having any problems with smart tests?

---

### Post by jaw3000 on 2024-07-19
> **TheFu said:**
> Any errors in dmesg ... perhaps showing cable issues or something crazy?


I'm not seeing any errors. I have two of these drives and both are doing this. The other drives I have connected at the moment are smaller SSDs and those complete the tests fine.

---

