---
title: "Trying to create a text only postscript file"
date: 2017-12-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Andrew_Benjamin on 2017-12-19
I'm actually trying to create a cover page for Avantfax.  All my eps and html versions have failed.
I have a document in LibreOffice which I'm trying to print to a TEXT ONLY ps file.  In other words, I don't want the file to be text, but have binary data instead of the text.

If I print to file as a ps file, I get a text file with binary data - in other words, the words I typed are now a binary block, not text with built in postscript commands.

I have followed the advice (here: [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29334770/ubuntu-14-x-libreoffice-4-2-how-to-print-to-ps-file-not-pdf](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29334770/ubuntu-14-x-libreoffice-4-2-how-to-print-to-ps-file-not-pdf)) to untick the 'pdf as standard print job format' box, but I still get a binary filled file.

So, how do I get LibreOffice to save a non-binary filled ps file which I can convert to an encapsulated postscript (eps) file via ps2eps so that I can use it as my Avantfax coverpage?

Help?

Andrew

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-12-21
Postscript files are usually plain text, but may contain blobs of binary, hex or base64 encoded data. It's all in the postscript specification and most applications dealing with postscript should know how to handle it. The purpose is to save a few bytes and to obfuscate the contents of the file, something that apparently made sense when postscript was introduced in the 1980s.

I rarely use libreoffice and never to make postscript output. I do create postscript files using dvips, converting from dvi, which in turn is generated by TeX (yes, the old-fashioned way). This creates plain text postscript, although the fonts and images that get included keep whatever encoding they had, usually hex (mostly fonts) or base64 (mostly raster images). Maybe your binary output is the result of the encoding used by your fonts, with contents further down? Various plotting tools create plain text postscript and I regularly hand-code some postscript to make vector images.

There are only two differences between a single-page postscript file and an eps file. The eps file has a different magic number and has a bounding box. Those are the first two lines of the file, which should always be in plain text. For example in a eps file I wrote in a text editor,```
%!PS-Adobe-3.0 EPSF-3.0
%%BoundingBox: 0 0 520 520
```Those are the x-coordinate of the left edge, y-coordinate of the lower edge, x-coordinate of the right edge and y-coordinate of the top edge. Coordinates are in units of typographic points, those units also used for font size, equal to 1/72 inch.

ps2eps does nothing more than determine the bounding box, filter the file for some uncommon features not supported by all output devices, change the magic number and insert the bounding box. I've never used it, I convert ps into eps using a text editor.

If that doesn't help, please consider this post a free bump.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-12-22
(After reading a PM)

I've been digging a bit deeper.

I made a test document in LibreOffice and exported it to PostScript using print to file. The font is included in the file as a big hex blob, only containing the glyphs (the graphical representation of a character) I actually used. The text of my document came below. Every character is placed separately with instructions like:```
269 361 moveto
<21>
show
```These are the absolute coordinates of the character and a hexadecimal code of the character within the part of the font that was included. So for example, <19>=P, <1A>=Q, <1B>=R, but when the document contains no Q it becomes <19>=P, <1A>=R, <1B>=S. I can change these hex codes in a text editor to change the text in my test document, but only to characters already used in the document. Furthermore, different glyphs have different width, so with these absolute coordinates the spacing is wrong, leading to a very ugly result. You can fix that manually, changing coordinates, but it would be easier to change things in your LibreOffice document and export it again to PostScript.

When not using LibreOffice, but LaTeX and dvips instead (which is an entirely different beast and may be incompatble with the rest of your proces, but is fun to learn anyway), results are slightly more promising, but not perfect. It can be configured to include all glyphs of the fonts, even those not used, and produces PostScript output with mostly relative coordinates and longer strings instead of separate characters. You can easely find your placeholders in the ps output and glyph widths are taken into account automatically. But even then, you have to fix spaces and kerns manually or the output will be somewhat ugly. It is quite close to your original intention though, as fixing kerns and spaces automatically in the PostScript file is impossible anyway – unless you write an entire typesetting engine in PostScript, which is technically possible but a huge task.

So I suggest you don't use an eps file with placeholders, but use a LibreOffice file with placeholders and generate a new eps whenever you need it.

I have to add that I know nothing about Avantfax.

---

### Post by Andrew_Benjamin on 2017-12-22
Thanks for all your input.

The AvantFax program takes the eps file and, as part of the process to generate a coverpage substitutes variables for the placeholder - you really want the coverpage to have (800) 555-1212 instead of XXXX-to-voice-number if your recipient has that 800 number as his voice number.

I could use LibreOffice to create a live coverpage and print it to a pdf and use it as page 1 without another coverpage - that kills the automation that Avantfax provides and creates a new series of required steps (that's a no go).

One used to be able to use a trial version of an Adobe program to create the coverpage - that program has been unavailable for years and years.

Another option is to create the coverpage as an html document.  Unfortunately, again, the html docs I can create/save as appear to be incompatible with the software - it just doesn't work.

Is there a WYSIWYG program for Windows or Linux that creates html docs using really basic commands/syntax so that it might be compatible with Avantfax's HTML2PS routine?  The HTML files I've created with both Word and LibreOffice aren't compatible.

This shouldn't be so hard, but apparently it is.


Andrew

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2017-12-22
There are a couple of tools you might try ..

Scribus is usually a desktop publisher but can be used for general page layout.
You can import various formats into frames on any page .. not just the page itself .. giving flexibility in page layout.

File > Import > Get Text.

I have Scribus open just now and there are multiple import/export options.

Another tool is pandoc for converting various formats.


[Added thought]

Inkscape outputs to *.eps.

---

### Post by Andrew_Benjamin on 2017-12-26
Pandoc seems to create an incompatible html file  I'll look at Scribus soon.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2017-12-26
> [COLOR=#000000]Pandoc seems to create an incompatible html file[/COLOR]

You might try using HTML templates in Pandoc to customise output.

---

