---
title: "14.04 Applications and Places menus"
date: 2015-02-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cyber72 on 2015-02-22
What is this all about?

These two appeared in the top bar after an update. I think it is some Gnomish thing. It has already conficted with Unity and that took half a day to solve. Who decides what updates users are sent? How can I get rid of this problem addition?

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2015-02-23
Gnomish things can be repaired, but you got to give us something better than that to work with.

I have a package that breaks when updated, so using Synaptic package manager I have pinned it.  Problem solved.

---

### Post by Cyber72 on 2015-02-24
The applications menu and the places menu apppear top left in the place where previously there were the close/maximise/minimise buttons. Windows whic are open are now listed on the bottom bar - right click on these brings up a menu with close, maximise etc. I'm guessing what i have is an alternative Gnome desktop - alternative to Unity. What I want is to get rid and go back to Unity. I think I maybe running a hybrid of two desktops and expect if I continue there will be further clashes. So I think I need to identify the app and uninstall it. So help with identifying the app would be appreciated.

Thanks V3

---

### Post by plucky on 2015-02-24
> **Cyber72 said:**
> The applications menu and the places menu apppear top left in the place where previously there were the close/maximise/minimise buttons. Windows whic are open are now listed on the bottom bar - right click on these brings up a menu with close, maximise etc. I'm guessing what i have is an alternative Gnome desktop - alternative to Unity. What I want is to get rid and go back to Unity. I think I maybe running a hybrid of two desktops and expect if I continue there will be further clashes. So I think I need to identify the app and uninstall it. So help with identifying the app would be appreciated.

Thanks V3

At the login screen where you type your password,can you select which session you would like to start?

Did you install gnome-session-fallback?

If you did,it will give you the choice at the login screen if you click on the icon next to your username.

Good Luck

---

