---
title: "LAN, no internet, possible eth0 and eth1 confusion?"
date: 2011-01-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-23
Ubuntu users,

One computer on my LAN is not connecting through to the internet, although it is visible on the LAN. I can log into it by SSH. However, if I open Firefox on that computer and try to look at a web page, I get nothing.

I noticed in the "Network Monitor" applet under the General tabe, it says the name of the conncetion is "eth0". However, when I go to "Configure", under the "Wired tab", it says the name of my connection is "Auto eth1", and that it was last used "never".

I had a similar eth0/eth1 confusion problem on another machine a while back, so I remembered that the solution was to edit /**etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules** and ensure there is only one entry, and that it is marked eth0.

However, this time, there is only one entry:

```
# PCI device 0x10ec:0x8169 (r8169)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:0a:79:98:dd:ed", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"
```

So I am not sure what to do now.

Is the eth0/eth1 issue the likely cause of my lack of internet connection?

Is there something else I should try?

Thank you for any advice.

---

### Post by adamjomha on 2011-01-23
are you wired?
im eth0 on wired and wlan0 on wireless, try wlan0 and wlan1

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-23
Thank you for responding.

The computer is on a wired connection, no wireless.

---

### Post by csacpt on 2011-01-23
Just a newbie myself but I would check the advanced preferences in Firefox as to how it connects to the Internet. I have experienced several instances where the settings change somehow. Probably something I did without knowing but worth checking, if you haven't already.

HTH

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-23
Thank you for the suggestion, csacpt. Unfortunately, Firefox was just one example of an application that can not connect to the internet.

It's also the case that no other program can connect to the internet either, so the problem is more system wide than Firefox.

I appreciate you offering an idea, though.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-23
If you can ssh to your PC, then it is connected to your router.

If programs can't "see the internet", then perhaps your DNS isn't working.

Does your PC have a static IP, or does it get its IP from your router with **dhcp** ?
What is the LAN IP of your router (eg 192.168.0.1 ) ?

Please post the output of ```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
ping -c1 google.com
ping -c1 209.85.143.104
```

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-23
tredegar,

Thank you for responding.

Unfortunately, I've gone and made the situation worse. I thought I could remove the card and reinstall it, hopes of getting the system to autodetect the correct values (which it did when I first installed Ubuntu).

However, all I've ended up accomplishing is that now the computer is completely isolated, not accessible by LAN anymore either.

My bad idea, I know.

What's weird to me is that if I look at the "Connection Properties" interface, it still says there is a connection called "eth0". And it seems to be sending and receiving occasional packets.

But if I click "Configure", there are no entries under the "Wired" tab.

I've really borked the network for that machine.

Is there a way I can start from scratch and reinstall the card, to at least get to a place of default settings?

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-23
**Update:**

I logged out, then logged back in, and it looks like I have my LAN connection restored.

I can log in by SSH.

That poor computer has taken a beating from me on the network settings, though. It's total mess.

In any case, still no internet.

Here is the output from the suggested commands:

```
media@media-centre:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 google.com
ping: unknown host google.com
media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 209.85.143.104
PING 209.85.143.104 (209.85.143.104) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 209.85.143.104: icmp_req=1 ttl=46 time=257 ms

--- 209.85.143.104 ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 257.294/257.294/257.294/0.000 ms
```

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-23
An empty resolv.conf and failure to ping google.com shows that you have no nameserver or DNS is broken. Able to ping 209.85.143.104 shows the network is working.
So
```
sudo nano /etc/resolv.conf
```
Make it look like this:
```
nameserver  LAN.IP.OF.YOURROUTER
```
Eg
```
nameserver  192.168.0.1
```
Save the file.
Restart networking:
```
sudo service networking restart
```
Any better?

> Does your PC have a static IP, or does it get its IP from your router with dhcp ?
What is the LAN IP of your router (eg 192.168.0.1 ) ?
You didn't answer these questions.

---

### Post by nnamdi on 2011-01-23
we need to know if you are using a static ip address or dhcp besides.. on your terminal
```


route

```

then paste the result let know if your gw is register on your system

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-23
nnamdi, tredegar,

Thank you for replying.

I edited my /etc/resolv.conf file so it looks like this:

```
nameserver 192.168.0.1
```

Still no joy, though.

The misbehaving computer has a static IP (192.168.0.4).

Here is the output from the suggested commands:

```
$ sudo service networking restart
restart: Unknown instance: 
media@media-centre:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
 * Reconfiguring network interfaces...                                           * Stopping the Firestarter firewall...
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
   ...done.
 * Starting the Firestarter firewall...
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
   ...fail!
invoke-rc.d: initscript firestarter, action "restart" failed.
run-parts: /etc/network/if-down.d/50firestarter exited with return code 2
postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
 * Stopping the Firestarter firewall...
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
   ...done.
 * Starting the Firestarter firewall...
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
eth1: error fetching interface information: Device not found
   ...fail!
invoke-rc.d: initscript firestarter, action "restart" failed.
run-parts: /etc/network/if-up.d/50firestarter exited with return code 2
ssh stop/waiting
ssh start/running, process 4006
postconf: fatal: open /etc/postfix/main.cf: No such file or directory
                                                                         [ OK ]
media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 google.com
ping: unknown host google.com
```

```
media@media-centre:~$ route
Kernel IP routing table
Destination     Gateway         Genmask         Flags Metric Ref    Use Iface
192.168.0.0     *               255.255.255.0   U     0      0        0 eth0
link-local      *               255.255.0.0     U     1000   0        0 eth0
default         192.168.0.1     0.0.0.0         UG    100    0        0 eth0
```

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-23
Thank you.

> sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart

You are not supposed to use the scripts in init.d since ubuntu went for upstart
Next time try 
```
sudo service networking stop
sudo service networking start

```
Network-Mangler is a hopeless piece of software sometimes.
If you just want a static IP it is easiest just to set this up in [B]/etc/network/interfaces 
[/B]
Make the file look like this
```
iface     lo inet loopback

auto      eth0
iface     eth0 inet static
broadcast 192.168.0.255
address   192.168.0.4
netmask   255.255.255.0
gateway   192.168.0.1
```

IMPORTANT: Make sure network-mangler hasn't changed your resolv.conf file, if so set it back to **nameserver 192.168.0.1**

Then ```
sudo service networking stop
sudo service networking start 
```

That _should_ fix it

Are you running a firewall on this PC? (It seems to be trying to set one up on eth1 and failing)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-01-23
I'm kinda late to this party. ;)
Do you have any manual configurations for eth1 in either Network Manager or */etc/network/interfaces*? I'm curious why the system is looking for it.

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-23
tredegar, Iowan,

Thank you for responding.

Got a few different results.

For one thing, whenever I try to use sudo service **networking stop, start**, or **restart**, it always just responds "Unknown instance:".

In any case I made the /etc/network/interfaces file look exactly as you wrote, tredegar. Actually, it was exactly the same as mine already, but the line ordering was different, so I went with your line ordering.

Since the networking restart command doesn't work, and I was told not to use /etc/init.d/networking, I figured I would just reboot the machine to restart the networking.

Unfortunately, since that reboot the situation is now that the misbehaving machine is no longer visible on the LAN:

```
$ ssh -Xvv media@192.168.0.4 gnome-terminal
OpenSSH_5.5p1 Debian-4ubuntu5, OpenSSL 0.9.8o 01 Jun 2010
debug1: Reading configuration data /etc/ssh/ssh_config
debug1: Applying options for *
debug2: ssh_connect: needpriv 0
debug1: Connecting to 192.168.0.4 [192.168.0.4] port 22.
debug1: connect to address 192.168.0.4 port 22: No route to host
ssh: connect to host 192.168.0.4 port 22: No route to host
```

I tried restoring the /etc/network/interfaces file to what it was before, but that didn't change anything. I'm suspecting that the reboot might have exposed some other problem with the misbehaving machine.

At this point, it's as if I took every possible network setting, put them in a blender on high speed, then poured them back into the computer, so anything could be happening right now.

I am also not sure why the system at any point, whether the Firewall or anywhere else, is looking for an eth1. I do not have an eth1 in /etc/network/interfaces or in /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules. Nor do I want an eth1.

Lastly, for the Firewall, I use Firestarter to manage my firewall settings, but so far as I can tell, Firestarter is not running because it it does not agree with the rest of my computer about what the network settings should or could be. So I think for the moment my firewall is down.

Any more suggestions for tactics I can use to tame this beast would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-23
> At this point, it's as if I took every possible network setting, put them in a blender on high speed, then poured them back into the computer, so anything could be happening right now.


I too am lost here. Sorry.

You have done so much network-fixing that I do not understand what *might* be happening.

If the ubuntu-master-roaster **Iowan** doesn't come up with a pointer in the next few days, I'd suggest rescuing your data and making a fresh install.

If you do this, make sure your router is set up to serve any cable-connected devices with an IP with dhcp for your LAN. Plug in the ethernet cable and install. Then restore the files you need.

Recently, I think Canonical have totally lost the plot. 8.04 was excellent.
10.04 is often broken, but it seems to be fixable, mostly. It is still very annoying.

As you are on a static IP, you might try removing Network-Mangler altogether, then just adjust your interfaces file (or leave it as it is, just get rid of N-M).

Good luck.

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-23
tredegar,

Thank you for responding.

Is it necessarry to re-install the entire OS?

I hoped it might be possible to completely blow away all my network settings and then reinstall them.

Basically, what I'm wondering is, if the network can be auto detected when I install the OS, then is there not a way I can isolate whatever process does that and reinstall just the network settings?

Since it's only the network that is problematic, it seems a little overkill to have to completely reinstall everything.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-24
> For one thing, whenever I try to use sudo service networking stop, start, or restart, it always just responds "Unknown instance:".

That is unwelcome news.

> Is it necessarry to re-install the entire OS?
I sincerely hope not.

> Basically, what I'm wondering is, if the network can be auto detected when I install the OS, then is there not a way I can isolate whatever process does that and reinstall just the network settings? 

I have no idea how ubuntu does this, and the new way of booting (upstart) still isn't working properly or reliably (I'm on 10.04)

Please uninstall Network-manager, you do not need it and it certainly isn't helping. Once you have done that, please post the outputs of 
```
cat /etc/network/interfaces
cat /etc/resolv.conf
ifconfig
sudo iptables -L
```

If you have no network connection, I guess you'll have to copy the results to a USB stick and send it from your other PC.

---

### Post by piquat on 2011-01-24
Just to add a piece to this puzzle:

Modifying /etc/resolve.conf manually is useless.  As pointed out in the file, it's generated by net man.  It's wiped and reloaded every time you use a connection.  If he has no eth1 set up, he will have nothing in /etc/resolve.conf when it tries to use it as it will try to pull settings from eth1, which don't exist.

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-24
tredegar, piquat,

Thank you for your continued help on this very sticky problem.

Update: I have deleted the evil network-manager, and now I have SSH connectivity back. :D

Still no internet connection, though.

Here is the output from the suggested commands:

```
media@media-centre:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface     lo inet loopback

auto      eth0
iface     eth0 inet static
broadcast 192.168.0.255
address   192.168.0.4
netmask   255.255.255.0
gateway   192.168.0.1
media@media-centre:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 192.168.0.1
media@media-centre:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:0a:79:98:dd:ed  
          inet addr:192.168.0.4  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::20a:79ff:fe98:dded/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:2952 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:3540 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:408584 (408.5 KB)  TX bytes:1849501 (1.8 MB)
          Interrupt:17 Base address:0x8f00 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:5140 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:5140 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:1958923 (1.9 MB)  TX bytes:1958923 (1.9 MB)

media@media-centre:~$ sudo iptables -L
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination         

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination
```

I hope something in there provides a clue as to what might be wrong.

---

### Post by spook1980 on 2011-01-24
please post the contents of your /etc/network/interfaces file

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-24
spook1980,

Thank you for responding.

The contents of my /etc/network/interfaces file are in the output of my last message.

Did you perhaps mean a different file?

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-24
Thanks for the information.

NM is gone. I am unable to express how happy this makes me. It always messed everything up. (**wicd** is another matter, it is good, but I don't need it).

Your **interfaces** file looks good.

**resolv.conf** is good (except it is still mentioning the wretched Network Mangler)

**ifconfig**: **eth0** looks good and you can use **ssh** - Excellent!

**iptables**: Your firewall has no rules - Good. I am _assuming_ you have a firewall on your modem / router.

But you say "Still no internet connection"

We need to define exactly what this means.

Can you ping google?
```
ping -c1 google.com
```
If not can you ping google's IP of the moment?
```
ping -c1 209.85.146.104
```

If the latter, and not the former, then your DNS is not working.

**resolv.conf** says your DNS server is your router. Have you checked that it is configured correctly? It should get your ISP's DNS server address from your ISP. It should then forward DNS requests from 192.168.0.4 to your ISPs DNS server, and relay the results back to 192.168.0.4

Are you _sure_ your router is at 192.168.0.1 ?
Please log into it and find out what it thinks its address is, just to be sure.
While you are there are you doing any MAC address filtering in your router? Please double-check.
What happens if you power down your working PC, boot the troublesome one, set its LAN IP to be that of your working PC, then reboot the bad one ? [Don't forget to set the LAN IP address back to 192.168.0.4 or we'll have another problem].

You need to be really logical & methodical and _make no assumptions_. Check *everything*.

I have lost count of the number of times a thread has gone on and on only for the OP to say "Duh! I forgot that I did ..... so *of course* it wasn't working. All fixed now".

Yeah, thanks to you too.

Anyway, please get checking, it'll probably be something simple and "obvious" when you find it.

Good luck.

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-24
tredegar,

Thank you for replying.

Unfortunately, we seem to have gone in a bit of a loop. You recommended I post the output of those same ping commands earlier in this very thread, and we determined then that the problem was a DNS one.

```
media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 google.com
ping: unknown host google.com
media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 209.85.146.104
PING 209.85.146.104 (209.85.146.104) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 209.85.146.104: icmp_req=1 ttl=48 time=252 ms

--- 209.85.146.104 ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 252.649/252.649/252.649/0.000 ms
```

In post #9 you recommended that I use the IP of my router in /etc/resolv.conf, which is why it is like that.

Now, I should mention that on my other computers which are all behaving perfectly, I use OpenDNS.org for my DNS servers. Of course, I tried that with my misbehaving machine, and that does not work.

At least I solved my Firestart errors by going into Firestarter and editing preferences, which seems to have solved its eth1 confusion.

Now I can restart the network without errors:

```
media@media-centre:~$ sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
 * Reconfiguring network interfaces...                                           * Stopping the Firestarter firewall...
   ...done.
 * Starting the Firestarter firewall...
   ...done.
 * Stopping the Firestarter firewall...
   ...done.
 * Starting the Firestarter firewall...
   ...done.
ssh stop/waiting
ssh start/running, process 6545
                                                                         [ OK ]
```

This is definitely a DNS issue, there's no doubt about it. Currently, my /etc/resolv.conf looks like this:

```
media@media-centre:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
```

I don't get it. What the heck does it take to get the DNS to work?

:confused:

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-24
> I don't get it. What the heck does it take to get the DNS to work?

You haven't answered my questions in post #22, though they were admittedly not posed as such.

> You recommended I post the output of those same ping commands earlier in this very thread, and we determined then that the problem was a DNS one.

Yes, it looks like you have a DNS problem. Only you have access to your PC.
I have given you the pointers to where the problems *might* lie - DNS.

You have now set your DNS servers as google DNS servers?
Your ISP should deal with this, and not need google's DNS.

Please re-read my post at #22 and post informative results for the suggestions I offered there.

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-25
tredegar,

Sorry, you're right, I didn't catch everything you suggested I try in post #22.

So... I tried powering down the working machine, and then I assigned that IP address to the misbehaving machine. I fully rebooted the misbheaving machine to ensure that the settings took hold.

Still no joy.

On the issue of what DNS servers I have assigned, on my working machine, it looks like this:
```
$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220
```

The reason I use OpenDNS for my DNS servers was something I did years ago, so I don't fully remember the motivation. It wasn't a technical problem, for some reason at the time I simply thought OpenDNS was better. And it has worked fine ever since.

That said, I don't particularly mind whether or not I use OpenDNS, Google, my router, or any other DNS setting. So long as it works.

On the issue of my router, (an Aterm BL190HW) it doesn't allow me to set it's DNS, it seems to be factory set by the ISP, who provided it to me. It allows me to set things like port mapping (which is all I've ever asked of it), and if it has a firewall, it's automagic.

The only DNS reference it has is that under a "Current Status" setting, I can view but not edit, these:
```
LAN Status:
IP address/netmask 	192.168.0.1/24
WAN Status
IP address/netmask  	114.17.153.254/26
Gateway 	114.17.153.193
Priary DNS 	210.196.3.183
Secondary DNS 	210.141.112.163
```

I tried using those DNS servers in /etc/resolv.conf, but still no joy.

Does that shed any new light?

I have to admit, I'm just on the verge of giving up on this and reinstalling the OS. That comes with new challenges, but they might be easier to track with a clean slate.

---

### Post by piquat on 2011-01-25
Just out of curiosity, a page back you posted up your ifconfig.  It had these two lines in it:

```
RX packets:2952 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
TX packets:3540 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
```

Then you pinged google by IP.  Was that ping reflected in these statistics?  IOW, is eth0 really eth0?

Probably not it but as was said before, assume nothing.

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-25
piquat,

Thank you for joining the thread.

I don't know how to tell if the information from ping and the information from ifconfig are related. However, I'll do it again, with the pings first, if that helps:

```
media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 google.com
ping: unknown host google.com

media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 8.8.8.8
PING 8.8.8.8 (8.8.8.8) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from 8.8.8.8: icmp_req=1 ttl=51 time=46.2 ms

--- 8.8.8.8 ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 46.235/46.235/46.235/0.000 ms

media@media-centre:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:0a:79:98:dd:ed  
          inet addr:192.168.0.4  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::20a:79ff:fe98:dded/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:162818 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:175978 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:36633519 (36.6 MB)  TX bytes:97969609 (97.9 MB)
          Interrupt:17 Base address:0x8f00 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:10715 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:10715 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:2394832 (2.3 MB)  TX bytes:2394832 (2.3 MB)
```

As for whether or not eth0 really is eth0, that is a good question. I haven't seen any mention of eth1 since I managed to clean out Firestarter's configuration.

That doesn't mean, however, that there isn't some lingering confusion about whether not there are multiple eth0 devices or misconfigured settings.

I am, as people are suggesting, not assuming anything, and trying to keep my eyes open to anything where I might think something looks right but actually isn't.

Oh, one more thing. I tried to install **wicd** (had to ferry the .deb files over by USB stick) to see if maybe that would help. Maybe its interface might access some configurations I haven't looked at yet.

It didn't change anything, despite much experimentation. So I uninstalled it again. I figure if it didn't work, I should get back to the using the command line and the config files so as to stay consistent with the suggestions and results that have come up in this thread.

---

### Post by piquat on 2011-01-25
I guess what I'm trying to say is, if you run ifconfig, look at the packet count of eth0.  Write it down if need be.  Now do a:

```
ping -c 30 8.8.8.8
```

It will take a minute.  After that run ifconfig again.  Do you see the packet counts increment for eth0?

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-25
Thanks for the additional information.
It is a puzzle.
The only other things I can think of are:

[LIST=1]
[*]Are you running a (perhaps misconfigured) DNS on your badly behaved PC? 

[*]It seems to be a "media PC" have you got mythtv on it?

[*]It might be worth stopping **eth0** (the only command that will work for me is **/etc/init.d/networking stop** as the **service networking stop**  command doesn't work at the moment)
[/LIST]
[INDENT]Then see what happens when you issue a **sudo dhclient eth0** ?
Do you get an IP address?
What is it?
What is now listed as the nameserver in **resolv.conf** ?
Can you ping google.com now?[/INDENT]

Hope to hear of progress soon.

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-25
tredegar,

Thank you so much for your continued help.

> 1. Are you running a (perhaps misconfigured) DNS on your badly behaved PC?

Not that I am aware of. I certainly had no intention to.

> 2. It seems to be a "media PC" have you got mythtv on it?

Yes. Might MythTV be doing nasty things to my DNS?

> 3. It might be worth stopping eth0 (the only command that will work for me is /etc/init.d/networking stop as the service networking stop command doesn't work at the moment)
Then see what happens when you issue a sudo dhclient eth0 ?

```
media@media-centre:~$ sudo dhclient eth0
Internet Systems Consortium DHCP Client V3.1.3
Copyright 2004-2009 Internet Systems Consortium.
All rights reserved.
For info, please visit https://www.isc.org/software/dhcp/

Listening on LPF/eth0/00:0a:79:98:dd:ed
Sending on   LPF/eth0/00:0a:79:98:dd:ed
Sending on   Socket/fallback
DHCPDISCOVER on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67 interval 3
DHCPOFFER of 192.168.0.3 from 192.168.0.1
DHCPREQUEST of 192.168.0.3 on eth0 to 255.255.255.255 port 67
DHCPACK of 192.168.0.3 from 192.168.0.1
bound to 192.168.0.3 -- renewal in 1603 seconds.
```

> Do you get an IP address?
What is it?

Looks like it might be 192.168.0.3 ...?

> What is now listed as the nameserver in resolv.conf ?

Currently it's set to be the router at 192.168.0.1

> Can you ping google.com now?

```
media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 google.com
ping: unknown host google.com
```

---

### Post by Dave M G on 2011-01-25
:D **UNCOMPROMISED VICTORY!!** :D

I found the answer! It has been solved!

I was searching google for all sorts of variants of DNS problems on Ubuntu, and while searching for threads related to "ping: unknown host", I came across [_this thread_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1648872").

In it were all the configuration files we've been discussing here, but one extra that we haven't gone over yet, **/etc/nsswitch.conf**.

I compared mine to his and noticed one line, with the key word "dns" in it, was different.

His had:
```
hosts:          files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4
```

Mine had:
```
hosts:          files [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns
```

I made mine match his, restarted the network, and...

```
media@media-centre:~$ ping -c1 google.comPING google.com (66.249.89.104) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from nrt04s01-in-f104.1e100.net (66.249.89.104): icmp_req=1 ttl=54 time=4.97 ms

--- google.com ping statistics ---
1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 4.977/4.977/4.977/0.000 ms
```

I can't even begin to describe how relieved I am to have put a bullet in this problem.

Thanks so much to everyone who helped me explore all the angles. The solution would not have jumped out had I not worked through all the possibilities with you.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2011-01-25
If you are still having a battle with that phantom eth1 interface, try "cat /var/log/syslog | grep eth" to pick out all lines of the log that reference either eth0 or eth1. That can help greatly in tracking down such mysterious happenings.

As for restarting networking, tredegar advised me (in a separate thread) to change from the /etc/init.d command to "service networking start" and also to try adding two lines: "sleep 20" and "service networking start" to my /etc/rc.local file. That cured my problem and might help yours (mine was apparently a result of upstart getting things out of sequence).

However since you have LAN connectivity and are simply missing the Internet, try "ping -c3 74.125.227.20" from a Terminal window (that's [www.google.com](www.google.com)). If that works, the problem is probably that you're not getting to a valid DNS server. Try manually editing your /etc/resolv.conf file to put in your ISP's nameserver addresses (now that Network-Mangler is gone it won't get rewritten to erase your changes). Here's mine (I'm on AT&T Southwest but the servers should work for you at least well enough to get started):```
nameserver 151.164.1.7
nameserver 151.164.1.8
```Hope this helps!
EDIT 2: Oops! A bit late to the party. Glad to see you got it fixed!

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-25
@Dave NG
Thanks.
Interesting, but not, ultimately, helpful.

I suspect mythtv has done something. IIRC it has a frontend and a backend and does weird things. I only played with it once, and that was years ago. I think it did do something to DNS, but I can't now remember the details.

Do you have a process called **named** running?

Finally, please post the contents of your **/etc/hosts** file.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-26
@Dave NG
Oops, looks like we have cross-posted somehow.

Anyway the problem is now solved.

Congratulations.

---

### Post by meer on 2011-01-30
> **tredegar said:**
> Thanks for the information.

Can you ping google?
```
ping -c1 google.com
```
If not can you ping google's IP of the moment?
```
ping -c1 209.85.146.104
```

If the latter, and not the former, then your DNS is not working.

Hi all,

Thanks for the post tredegar.  I'm having that problem after installing squid.  I remember doing some changes to my DNS settings.  After updating and restarting my PC, I can't connect to the internet anymore.

Now, I can ping the google ip but not google.com.

Any suggestions would be very much appreciated.  Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-30
> Any suggestions would be very much appreciated. Thanks in advance.
**meer**, please start a new thread titled along the lines of "Installed squid, now DNS not working".

I'd help you if I could, but I know *nothing* about squid.

Best wishes.

---

