---
title: "System slow... can't run Hulu full screen"
date: 2009-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nexion on 2009-05-13
I recently installed Ubuntu 9.04 on an older Evo I have.  Here are the specs:

EVO SFF D510
1.8GHz P4 Processor
2GB of PC2100 ram
256 L2 cache
integrated intel graphics/sound

It was a clean install, and the system runs well, but really really slow.  Often I'll open up the system monitor and the processor is at 100%, with only Evolution and Firefox open.

I've already tried this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582&highlight=integrated+intel](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1130582&highlight=integrated+intel)

And it helped a bit.  Really, I would like to run boxee smoothly (which I am well within the requirements to run) but my videos are choppy.  I would also like to be able to run Hulu at full screen which I can't now.

My question:  Is there any performance tips that you can give me to speed the system up?  (should I get a graphics card... would that fix my issue?)  Or if you think there's a problem some help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by kndndhkn on 2009-05-13
[http://www.cabledatasheet.com/](http://www.cabledatasheet.com/)

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-05-13
System monitor does not report CPU usage very well, it over estimates.

Install htop and have a look, see whats using your CPU.

```
sudo apt-get install htop
```

---

### Post by nexion on 2009-05-13
> **Peter09 said:**
> System monitor does not report CPU usage very well, it over estimates.

Install htop and have a look, see whats using your CPU.

```
sudo apt-get install htop
```
Ok, install htop.  It seems that this process is using just as much if not more than the apps that I open

/usr/X11R6/bin/X :0 -br -audit 0 -auth /var/lib/gdm/:0.Xauth -nolisten tcp vt7

I assume that's the GUI

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-05-13
If you have compiz turned on - try turning it off.

---

### Post by nexion on 2009-05-13
> **Peter09 said:**
> If you have compiz turned on - try turning it off.
It's not on.  Also, after the intel fix for jaunty I get about 13 FPS on tux racer

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-05-13
Can you post the output of

```
lshw -C video
```

and the contents of

/etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by nexion on 2009-05-13
Here's the output of lshw:

```
  *-display UNCLAIMED
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0  
```


And here's the xorg.conf file:

```
 Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"AccelMethod"			"uxa"
	Option		"EXAOptimizeMigration"		"true"
	Option		"MigrationHeuristic"		"greedy"
	Option		"Tiling"			"false" # i8xx users: set to false
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection  
```

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-05-13
There have been some changes on these drivers - as an experiment comment out all the video options in xorg except uxa - then reboot.

---

### Post by nexion on 2009-05-13
Still no joy.  Tried that, and there is no change in the system speed.

---

### Post by sports fan Matt on 2009-05-13
I have the same problem...here is my lshw:  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0

and here is my xorg: # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
#	Driver		"kbd"
#	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
#	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
#	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
#EndSection
# commented out by update-manager, HAL is now used
#Section "InputDevice"
#	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
#	Driver		"mouse"
#	Option		"CorePointer"
#EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	1280 960
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2009-05-13
In the Device section (near the bottom) of xorg add the following line and logout and in again

Option		"AccelMethod"			"uxa"

---

### Post by nexion on 2009-05-17
Thanks for trying to help peter09, I appreciate it.  What I ended up doing is I bought a graphics card, and that solved the problem completely.  It was either 9.04's problem with the integrated intel chip, or the computer was too slow to handle not having a *real* graphics card (1.8Ghz).

Now everything is working well (hulu still has a problem running at full screen, but I have a feeling that's just the PC's limitations), and I'm stoked.

---

### Post by Wiebelhaus on 2009-05-17
I'm running relatively the same specs and I couldn't either with the on board graphics after throwing a cheap GF6800 in a pci-e slot it improved the performance substantially.

Cheers.

---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-05-17
Hulu is also choppy for me in fullscreen yet I have no other issues with ubuntu on my machine. It must just have something to do with flash or hulu itself.

---

### Post by nexion on 2009-05-17
Interestingly enough, when I run Hulu in full screen through Firefox, it's choppy.  When I run Hulu through boxee... just fine.

---

