---
title: "9.10 Live CD wipes TV card driver in XP"
date: 2010-02-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pacland on 2010-02-12
Hi

I have a PC with the following specs:
Gigabyte GA-K8NF-9 motherboard
AMD Athlon 64 processor 3400+
Nvidia GeForce 6600 video card
Realtek AC'97 Audio
1 GB DDR Memory
Creatix SAA7134 TV Card
OS Windows XP SP3

When I run the 64bit 9.10 Live CD everything works well in Ubuntu.
However when I remove the Live CD and return to Windows I find a splat for a multimedia device. I have to reinstall the drivers for the Creatix SAA7134 TV card.
I have to do this everytime I run the Live CD.
This problem is putting me off dual booting between Windows and Ubuntu.
I thought that the idea of the Live CD is that it has no effect on the installed OS.
It appears thet Ubuntu does something to the card which Windows then has to recover from, does anyone have an idea why this is happening?

Thanks

pacland

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-02-12
I heard about something similar a long time back and they discovered BIOS video settings that reset the default video every time the switched booting between MS WIndows and Ubuntu.  They had to reinstall their Linux video drivers every time they booted into MS Windows and then rebooted in Ubuntu.

Sorry I can't be more specific, but I don't have the details.

At least it's something you can check.

---

### Post by pacland on 2010-02-13
Hi

I've had a look in the BIOS it's by Award and I'm already on the latest version available from the manufacturer.
The only options about video are:

Init Display First
The options are PCI Slot, PEG & PEG(Slot2).
I think this is to tell the motherboard which video card to use first (if more than one installed)
It's currently set to PEG which I think means PCI Express Graphics so this seems correct.

Robust Graphics Booster
The options are Auto, Fast and Turbo.
it's currently set to Auto. I think this allows you to tinker with your video card performance.

I can't see anything about initialising the video card specifically.

Does anyone know how TV card drivers work?
Does the driver (windows or linux) send anything directly to the card during initialisation?

Thanks

Pacland

---

### Post by pacland on 2010-02-19
Hi

In case anybody else hits the same problem in the future here's my theory about what's happening and also my workaround.

I believe that the TV card does not store it's firmware constantly but instead loads it each time the PC boots up.

Typically when I'm finished with the Ubuntu Live CD I will do a restart straight back into Windows.
I think this doesn't give the TV card enough time to forget that Ubuntu has already uploaded it's version of the firmware. When Windows starts it sees the wrong version of firmware loaded, it can't cope with this and prompts for the drivers so it can load it's version.
Of course when Windows starts and there is no firmware loaded it doesn't complain and just loads the firmware anyway!


So the workaround is obvious, when I have finished with the Ubuntu Live CD I shutdown the PC completely.
I wait for the drives to spin down and then boot up again from cold at which point the TV card has dropped any firmware it had loaded and Windows is happy!


Stupid, stupid Win doze!

---

