---
title: "10.04 lucid - remove evolution icon from panel"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-05-13
i know that the evolution icon on the panel is part of the indicators stuff, but is there any way to remove the evolution icon without removing the indicators?  maybe configuring the indicator stuff to not show evolution?  i looked into removing evolution, but it seems to be really embedded.  thanks.

---

### Post by empty_spaces on 2010-05-13
I believe this should do it.
**sudo aptitude remove indicator-messages**

---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-05-13
thanks, but i want to keep the other stuff, and that gets rid of all of it. not sure there's an easy way.

---

### Post by mschira on 2010-05-13
Yea, I should have read that first...
I removed the evolution link via the left click option remove.
Brilliantly this also removed the battery indicator.
How do I undo this?
M.

---

### Post by empty_spaces on 2010-05-14
> **mschira said:**
> Yea, I should have read that first...
I removed the evolution link via the left click option remove.
Brilliantly this also removed the battery indicator.
How do I undo this?
M.

Strange, if I remember correctly, it only removed the envelope icon when I did it. You are using Lucid, right?
Anyway, if it's not doing it for you, just reinstall it back via synaptic or this command.
**sudo aptitude install indicator-messages**

---

### Post by obscurant1st on 2010-05-14
right click the panel and add "indicator-applet". That will do the trick.

But if you have already uninstalled it, you will have to install it again as the above person said. :)

I am also searching for a way to remove items individually from indicator applet"". It seems like there is no way without head ache as a person from IRC quoted.. :)

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2010-05-14
```
gksudo nautilus
```
Navigate to
/usr/share/indicators/messages/applications
Delete the evolution file or anything else you want.
If you want to add a new icon to the indicator applet, thunderbird for example, create a new text file in that folder, name it thunderbird and put
/usr/share/applications/thunderbird.desktop
in it. Restart the gnome panel and... there you go.

---

### Post by obscurant1st on 2010-05-14
i tried it, but still that mail icon is there.
I tried deleting everything from that folder except thunder bird.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2010-05-14
Try restarting the pc.

---

### Post by obscurant1st on 2010-05-19
yep, it worked. I had to restart the PC.. :)

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2010-05-19
Glad to hear it...
Keep Ubunting!

---

### Post by timcredible on 2010-05-22
i tried that, and rebooted my pc, the evolution icon remains in the indicator section of the panel.  the other 2 files in that location are qwibber and empathy

---

### Post by Imperialwar on 2010-05-25
This worked for me [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470786](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1470786).

Hope it helps.

---

### Post by dewdrop_world on 2010-12-01
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> ```
gksudo nautilus
```Navigate to
/usr/share/indicators/messages/applications
Delete the evolution file or anything else you want.
If you want to add a new icon to the indicator applet, thunderbird for example, create a new text file in that folder, name it thunderbird and put
/usr/share/applications/thunderbird.desktop
in it. Restart the gnome panel and... there you go.

Sorry to revive an old thread. These instructions didn't make a difference for me. I moved the evolution file to another location (*sudo mv .....*) and I've restarted since then, but I still have the mail icon.

```
dlm@dlm-laptop:/usr/share/indicators/messages/applications$ ls
empathy  gwibber
```^^ No "evolution"...

Has the directory moved? Hard to imagine... I'm using 10.04 like the original poster.

Thanks,
James

---

