---
title: "Wubi + Netbook Remix = No Go...  help..."
date: 2009-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zafayar on 2009-05-02
Hi,

I downloaded the 9.04 Netbook Remix and wrote it to the Sandisk Cruiser Micro (First from my Ubuntu Desktop and then from Windows XP laptop).  Also checked the Md5 of the downloaded image, and its correct.  I can start the laptop (Acer Aspire One - GZ5) while booting from the USB disk, and everything is working as expected.

Now, what I wanted to do was to install Netbook remix using Wubi.  But as long as my USB drive is plugged in, the Wubi will not start.  I have attached the log file.  The same thing happens when I launch a seperate downloaded version of Wubi.  If I remove the USB drive, Wubi launches and starts to download the ISO, but it does not give any option to download Netbook remix.

I have attached the log file generated by Wubi.

Has anyone done what I am trying to do?  Well, Wubi is in the image itself, so I dont think I am the first one.  

Any help will be appreciated.

Raj

---

### Post by nreddyk on 2009-05-06
I am having the same problem with Wubi and Netbook Remix on my Lenovo S10e. I followed all instructions including hash check and img creation on flash drive. When I click on the Wubi icon nothing happens. Is Wubi + Netbook Remix = No go?:confused:

---

### Post by nreddyk on 2009-05-06
If it is a no go, then can I install the 9.04 desktop version via Wubi and convert it to netbook remix? If so, can some one guide me please.

---

### Post by zafayar on 2009-05-06
I have tried to look at the source of Wubi.  Though I cannot program in python, I can read it a bit.  And for some reason, I cannot find any support for the Netbook remix in it.  I cannot be sure though.

Also, the installation is a bit different for Netbook remix and the desktop.  The difference very well maybe just the additional software.

At the end, I just resized the huge NTFS partition using the live-usb, and installed it natively.

---

### Post by Kobus on 2009-07-02
> **nreddyk said:**
> I am having the same problem with Wubi and Netbook Remix on my Lenovo S10e. I followed all instructions including hash check and img creation on flash drive. When I click on the Wubi icon nothing happens. Is Wubi + Netbook Remix = No go?:confused:

Any solution yet? I am trying the same thing on Lenovo s10e, but wubi just don't do anything.

Thanks

---

### Post by hibliss on 2009-07-02
Just use the regular Wubi install from within Windows and add the NBR packages.

---

### Post by zafayar on 2009-07-13
> **hibliss said:**
> Just use the regular Wubi install from within Windows and add the NBR packages.

This seems to be the only option for now.  I would think that if this is the case, we need to create a bug report for it and get wubi removed from the image.  If not at least put a note stating this.  

Thanks,

Raj

---

