---
title: "Can't compress files on FAT 32 partition"
date: 2009-01-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TWO on 2009-01-02
Hello

I've noticed that I am unable to compress my files on my FAT 32 partition, but I am able to do so on my Desktop and within my home directory.

I've been playing about with the /etc/fstab file as I can't help but think that the problem is related to file permissions. Before I altered it, I was able to compress in one single subfolder, but was unable to do so higher in the directory. :confused:

This is how my fstab file looks at the moment: 

```
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc                                       /proc           proc         defaults                                                       0  0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=287e27c6-acb6-4274-874b-16e136a8bf1e  /               ext3         nouser,relatime,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid  0  1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=04473fe1-bcb8-4d10-bee5-31dc631876c5  none            swap         sw                                                             0  0
/dev/scd0                                  /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660  user,utf8,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid                        0  0
/dev/sdb                                   /media/floppy0  auto         user,utf8,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid                        0  0
/dev/sda5                                  /media/sda5     vfat         defaults,user,exec,uid=1000,gid=100,umask=000                  0  0
/dev/sda1                                  /media/sda1     ntfs         ntfs-3g,defaults                                               0  0

```

I installed Kubuntu via the USB method since my DVD drive isn't working, and I know that using that method causes problems with mounting any USB memory sticks you happen to plug in afterwards, unless you delete a line out of the /etc/fstab file. I also had to install **pysdm** to enable access to my FAT 32 partition. I also installed **ntfs-config** at some point to configure access to my Windows partition. 

I can't think of any other details to list here. I'm running Hardy Heron with KDE 3.5.10 and all latest updates applied. 

I only discovered this because I wanted to make .tar.gz files out of my folders before I burned them to DVD...

Any help would be greatly appreciated

Thanks in advance 

TWO

EDIT: The title should read "Unable to **Archive**"

---

### Post by phonixor on 2009-01-02
complete newb myself..  max size of files on FAT is 4Gb.. could it be that it gets this big? or doesn't it start at all?

---

### Post by TWO on 2009-01-02
> **phonixor said:**
> complete newb myself..  max size of files on FAT is 4Gb.. could it be that it gets this big? or doesn't it start at all?

The size of the folders exceed 4GB however, I do not have any individual files that exceed 1GB. Maybe having an archived/compressed file more 4GB would cause a problem.

The thing is, I don't even get to that stage.

Even if I click to archive a tiny file, say like 50 KB in size, the "compressing" dialogue continues without pause. If I do the same with a similarly sized file on the Desktop or within the Home partition, as you'd expect, the process is completed almost instantly...

:confused:

---

### Post by TWO on 2009-01-05
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc                                       /proc           proc         defaults                                               0  0
# /dev/sda6
UUID=070dec5d-fc59-421f-95a8-ab35af4772c9  /               ext3         relatime,errors=remount-ro                             0  1
# /dev/sda7
UUID=04473fe1-bcb8-4d10-bee5-31dc631876c5  none            swap         sw                                                     0  0
/dev/scd0                                  /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8                                  0  0
/dev/scd1                                  /media/cdrom2   udf,iso9660  user,noauto,exec,utf8                                  0  0
/dev/sdb                                   /media/floppy0  auto         rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8                               0  0

#FAT 32 Shared
/dev/sda5                                  /media/shared   vfat         auto,users,uid=1000,gid=1000,utf8,dmask=027,fmask=137  0  0
#Windows Partition
/dev/sda1       /media/windows  ntfs-3g auto,users,uid=1000,gid=100,dmask=027,fmask=137,utf8    0       0
```

Slight revision to my /etc/fstab after a re-install. The problem still persists however. 

Does anyone else experience this?

TWO

---

### Post by mwillams73 on 2009-04-04
fat 32 doesnt support compressing, never has never will, i suggest if you want to compress that partition you should copy everything on it to something else, use gparted to delete the fat32 partition and reformat it to ntfs(which supports compression thats why microsoft switched from fat 32 to ntfs) I dont know if you can use the live cd function on a usb drive but if you can chose to try ubuntu without changes and when the live session desktop boots up go to system, administration, partition editor.

If you dont have that on that function on the usb then i suggest you down load gparted, i cant remember where to get it at the moment but if you search the forums here you should have no problems finding it.

Good luck!!!!

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2009-04-04
> **mwillams73 said:**
> fat 32 doesnt support compressing, never has never will, i suggest if you want to compress that partition you should copy everything on it to something else, use gparted to delete the fat32 partition and reformat it to ntfs(which supports compression thats why microsoft switched from fat 32 to ntfs) I dont know if you can use the live cd function on a usb drive but if you can chose to try ubuntu without changes and when the live session desktop boots up go to system, administration, partition editor.

If you dont have that on that function on the usb then i suggest you down load gparted, i cant remember where to get it at the moment but if you search the forums here you should have no problems finding it.

Good luck!!!!

Firstly, this thread has been dead for over 3 months now, why are you replying?

Secondly:
[QUOTE=TWO]EDIT: The title should read "Unable to Archive" [/QUOTE]
Yes, you are right, **filesystem compression** is not supported by Fat32, but the OP was wanting to **Archive** files, (ie: using "**tar**").

Please could you try to proof-read the full original post, and note the original and last post date before making a comment.

Regards
Iain

---

