---
title: "10.04 = Suspend worked. 10.10 = Suspend is a gamble."
date: 2011-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-04
With 10.04 on my Dell Latitude E5500 laptop, suspend worked each and every single time.

I did a fresh install of 10.10 on this laptop. Suspend works maybe 7/10 times now. Often times the screen goes black and the backlight remains on, with a solid white dash in the far upper left. Once this happens, the laptop is non-recoverable and I must force it off and power it back on, which begs the question as to why I even use suspend...

Any ideas?

---

### Post by imcecil on 2011-01-04
can you find any usesful sections of log?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-04
What log commands should I run?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-06
uppp :confused:

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-11
:confused::confused::confused:

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-19
SO close to going back to 10.04...

---

### Post by aaaantoine on 2011-01-19
Can you tell us more about your PC?  Maybe run lspci and post the results here to give us a general idea of what hardware is involved.

Suspend & Resume seems to be a crap shoot across the board in Linux.  But, if it works for you in 10.04, and it's a significant enough feature for you, maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to switch back. Ubuntu 10.04 is a Long Term Support release, after all, so you can stick with it for a while.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-19
Dell Latitude E5500. All stock except for the wireless card, which was Broadcom originally (sucked) that I swapped for an Intel.




00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 07)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 02)
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 02)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1c.4 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 5 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 92)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M LPC Interface Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E 2 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.5 IDE interface: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E 2 port SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
02:01.0 CardBus bridge: Ricoh Co Ltd RL5c476 II (rev ba)
02:01.1 FireWire (IEEE 1394): Ricoh Co Ltd R5C832 IEEE 1394 Controller (rev 04)
02:01.2 SD Host controller: Ricoh Co Ltd R5C822 SD/SDIO/MMC/MS/MSPro Host Adapter (rev 21)
09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM5761e Gigabit Ethernet PCIe (rev 10)
0c:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N 1000

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-22
:( :(

---

### Post by dan55 on 2011-01-22
Sorry for the stupid question, but what should happen when suspend is selected? I just installed 10.10 on a new build (Intel 2500k), and I cannot get either of two system fans or the cpu fan or the LED to turn off without shutting the computer down. All that happens when I select suspend or hibernate is that I am logged out. Is this typical? I'm not sure if this is attributable to an error with my build, incompatibility with Sandy Bridge, or a bug. 

Thanks!
Dan

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-23
> **dan55 said:**
> Sorry for the stupid question, but what should happen when suspend is selected? I just installed 10.10 on a new build (Intel 2500k), and I cannot get either of two system fans or the cpu fan or the LED to turn off without shutting the computer down. All that happens when I select suspend or hibernate is that I am logged out. Is this typical? I'm not sure if this is attributable to an error with my build, incompatibility with Sandy Bridge, or a bug. 

Thanks!
Dan

The screen should just go black, with the power button slowly flashing on/off. Then when you close the laptop and reopen - OR - hit the power button, it comes back to life with the screen locked. Put the password in, good to go.

Instead, my laptop dead-locks with the screen blank, but the backlight still on. It's non-recoverable at this point, and I MUST shut down and power back on.

Ubuntu may FLY with shutting down and powering on on my netbook, but oddly it takes my 4gb ram Core 2 Duo laptop quite a bit longer to fire it up and shut it down... and since I'm always on the run, suspend is... to be honest... a must. 

I've heard people say it's "not all there" in Linux, but to be frank, suspend has ALWAYS worked. flawlessly. It's hibernate that (used to be) sketchy as ever to rely on.

Maybe I'll just go back to 10.04. I have no real reason to need 10.10... and it is a *work* laptop, which kind of screams utilizing the LTS... I just find it a crock to see 10.10 suspend is as unreliable as it is with my model laptop. It works predictably each time on my netbook. 

sigh. :(

---

### Post by dan55 on 2011-01-23
Interesting. Thanks for the information.

---

### Post by The Shade on 2011-01-30
I have the same suspend problem. Lenovo thinkpad x200s. I have monitored kern.log and for me (newb) it seems that computer thinks that it wakes up immediately after it suspends when I see it crash and heat up. What else could I do to find out what cuases it? Is there a bug report of it?

EDIT: switching to Lucid for now, but will test with next Natty alpha to see if this problem is still present.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-01-31
> **The Shade said:**
> I have the same suspend problem. Lenovo thinkpad x200s. I have monitored kern.log and for me (newb) it seems that computer thinks that it wakes up immediately after it suspends when I see it crash and heat up. What else could I do to find out what cuases it? Is there a bug report of it?

EDIT: switching to Lucid for now, but will test with next Natty alpha to see if this problem is still present.

Can you run lspci so I can see what hardware you have in that laptop? I'm curious how similar/different it is to my E5500.

Secondly, have you had the same issues on multiple kernels like I have?

---

### Post by mikehinchey on 2011-02-01
I had the same problem.  After upgrading to 10.10, I had to use 's2ram --force' to make suspend work.  After the latest kernel upgrade a few days ago, I got the problem where instead of suspend, the laptop wakes up and the screen is locked.  To fix this, I rebooted and choose the previous kernel 2.6.35-24-generic.  s2ram works again, but I haven't tried the default suspend.

See [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471855](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=471855)

---

### Post by hansolo4949 on 2011-02-01
You should see if the package uswsusp (I only remember it because I have it written on my desk calendar!) is installed. I couldn't sleep, or rarely could until I installed it. Now, the computer sleeps just fine, every time! Now, that may not work for you guys, but It worked perfectly for me. To fix it in 10.04, I had to install some power management utilities package, but that's it.

Hope that works!

---

### Post by The Shade on 2011-02-04
Thanks for replies, I'm gonna try it all. But for now it works (using lucid). I will be back and do my best helping to solve this bug(?), but it will have to wait some days.

The problem occured using all kernels that came from maverick's updates.

lspci
```
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Memory Controller Hub (rev 07)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 07)
00:03.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset MEI Controller (rev 07)
00:03.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset PT IDER Controller (rev 07)
00:03.3 Serial controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset AMT SOL Redirection (rev 07)
00:19.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82567LM Gigabit Network Connection (rev 03)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 03)
00:1a.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 03)
00:1a.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 03)
00:1a.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 03)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 03)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 03)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 03)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 03)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 03)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 03)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 03)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev 93)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation ICH9M-E LPC Interface Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation ICH9M/M-E SATA AHCI Controller (rev 03)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 03)
03:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Wireless WiFi Link 5300
04:00.0 Memory controller: Intel Corporation Turbo Memory Controller (rev 11)
```

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-02-14
Still an issue... anybody have any idea what I can do?

---

### Post by The Shade on 2011-03-02
Using 11.04 alpha livecd suspend works. Hopefullythis issue will just be left behind with 10.10.

---

