---
title: "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver."
date: 2009-06-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bindkeeper on 2009-06-06
Hi I made an update from the update manager.

Thats what I get when I am trying to enter to the Nvidia X server settings.

You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.

I did the `nvidia-xconfig` and restarted the X, but the message appears again.

the output of 
```
at /etc/X11/xorg.conf | grep Driver

```
is
```
	Driver		"kbd"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Driver		"nvidia"

```

I'm using Ubuntu 8.04 lts

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-06-06
How did you install your nvidia drivers? Repository or via drivers downloaded from nvidia's site?

---

### Post by bindkeeper on 2009-06-06
From "Hardware Drivers"

---

### Post by bindkeeper on 2009-06-06
Ok I solved this problem by installing linux-restricted-modules.

```
 sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules

```

Then System>Administration>Hardware Drivers dis enables the nvidia driver, enabled it again, restarted the PC and its OK right now.

Now I just want to understand what happened?

The update manager updated the kernel along with all other updates, so my previous modules are useless with my updated kernel. Is that it?

---

### Post by califman831 on 2009-06-12
am experiencing a similar problem.  I have followed the previous instructiongs but am stuck with a low resolution.  Here is copy of my xorg.conf file





# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
	Option	"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	"DontZap"	"True"
EndSection

---

