---
title: "Can't log in to Karmic"
date: 2010-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-02-25
Hiya.  As of yesterday evening I'm unable to log into my Karmic box.  I'm presented with the login screen, I enter my username and password, and the screen briefly goes away as though it's logging me in, but then just comes back again prompting for username and password again.

I am able to log in via SSH, and even get onto the Desktop remotely via FreeNX, and to confirm my password is okay I changed it via SSH.

Yesterday I install some updates, and I think Beyond Compare which required some 32bit libs to run (as I'm on 64 bit).

I had a look in auth.log but doesn't point to anything from what I can tell.

```
Feb 25 07:11:38 mobrain gdm-session-worker[2619]: pam_unix(gdm:session): session opened for user wlo by (uid=0)
Feb 25 07:11:38 mobrain gdm-session-worker[2619]: pam_ck_connector(gdm:session): nox11 mode, ignoring PAM_TTY :0
Feb 25 07:11:39 mobrain gdm-session-worker[2619]: pam_unix(gdm:session): session closed for user wlo
Feb 25 07:14:51 mobrain sudo:     root : TTY=unknown ; PWD=/ ; USER=wlo ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/gconftool --get /system/http_proxy/use_http_proxy
Feb 25 07:14:51 mobrain sudo:     root : TTY=unknown ; PWD=/ ; USER=wlo ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/gconftool --get /system/http_proxy/host
Feb 25 07:14:52 mobrain sudo:     root : TTY=unknown ; PWD=/ ; USER=wlo ; COMMAND=/usr/bin/gconftool --get /system/http_proxy/port

```

Anywhere else I can be looking for clues?  Any other ideas?

I've just installed another round of updates over but can't test if that fixed it as I'm not with the machine now.

Any help appreciated.

Thanks.

Wlo.

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-02-25
...the thing is, don't panic, got a login problem bout a week ago, the opposite of what's happening to your system...can't login to my remote server (local net)...checked and re-checked my configuration, things are in proper order...got tired and logout for the nyt...the following day, i can already login to the remote computer.

yup...one thing i missed, i did'nt know what the problem was.

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-02-26
I can log in if I select the Gnome Failsafe option at the login screen.  Can anyone let me know where I can find a log telling me what the problem is?

Thanks again.

Wlo.

---

### Post by diazleonardo on 2010-02-26
Same problem here.  I haven't logd out for a while (3 - 4 days) wanted to check something and I can't log in again.  Other users do.

Since I can log through SSH I assume there is no problem with /etc/passwd.  Anyhow, changed my password and tried to log in again.  No luck.

auth.log shows nothing wrong.

```
Feb 26 12:35:29 asuracenturix gdm-session-worker[5084]: pam_unix(gdm:session): session closed for user wifey
Feb 26 12:35:41 asuracenturix gdm-session-worker[5467]: pam_unix(gdm:session): session opened for user myself by (uid=0)
Feb 26 12:35:41 asuracenturix gdm-session-worker[5467]: pam_ck_connector(gdm:session): nox11 mode, ignoring PAM_TTY :0
Feb 26 12:35:44 asuracenturix seahorse-daemon[5605]: init gpgme version 1.1.8
```moved .gnome2/keyrings away.  Didn't work either.

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-02-26
Anyone got any ideas?  I just need to know where I can find some sort of error message?

---

### Post by diazleonardo on 2010-02-26
Found this in the logs,  any relationship?  (I will test tomorrow, too tired for any productive work right now)
```

Feb 26 11:48:11 asuracenturix gnome-keyring-ask: could not grab keyboard: 3
Feb 26 11:49:11 asuracenturix gnome-keyring-ask: last message repeated 29 times
Feb 26 11:50:11 asuracenturix gnome-keyring-ask: last message repeated 6 times
Feb 26 11:54:35 asuracenturix gnome-keyring-ask: could not grab keyboard: 3
Feb 26 11:55:41 asuracenturix gnome-keyring-ask: last message repeated 9 times

```

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-01
Is there anything else I can do about this?  Somewhere else I can go for help maybe?

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-03-01
...if i remember correctly, there is a part in the installation process wherein you were ask to record a certain password which was generated by the system, stating that you have to use it should a login problem ever occur. use that password.

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-02
> **byStanderone said:**
> ...if i remember correctly, there is a part in the installation process wherein you were ask to record a certain password which was generated by the system, stating that you have to use it should a login problem ever occur. use that password.

Can you explain any more?  I don't remember setting a password other than the standard admin one, does this password have name or something so I can search for more info?

I'm able to log in via SSH and FreeNX, so I know my password is okay.

Thanks for your suggestion.

Someone else suggested I try logging in via a tty and starting X.  I could log in via the tty but x wouldn't start as it said it was already running.

Am I going to need to reinstall my OS?

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-02
After some help on IRC I'm a bit further (Dapapr? - Thanks!)

I've created a new user, and that user is able to log in fine using normal Gnome.  I've tried to compare the home dirs to see what might be different, and have changed ownership recursively on my home dir to be owned by me, but still the same prob.

Any ideas?

THanks.

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-03-03
...yup, it did generate a password for such problem, verified my notes and had recorded it...tho so far haven't encountered login problems with karmic.

---

### Post by chomps on 2010-03-03
Hi, It looks to me like the host file keyring is out of sync.

from the machine that you are connecting from go to /home/<username>/.ssh
where <username> is your current user.

remove all the lines in the 'known_hosts' file

try again and accept the new key

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-03
> **chomps said:**
> Hi, It looks to me like the host file keyring is out of sync.

from the machine that you are connecting from go to /home/<username>/.ssh
where <username> is your current user.

remove all the lines in the 'known_hosts' file

try again and accept the new key

Hi.  I've done that but still the same problem.

I don't understand what you mean by "accept the new key" - remote logins are fine, it's logging in to Gnome/KDE locally which is causing the problem, and this doesn't prompt me for a key.

At worst I suppose I can just set everything up again with the new user which works fine, but it'd be quite a pain and I'd love to know why it's happened so I can try and avoid it happening again.

THanks for your help.

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-03
> **byStanderone said:**
> ...yup, it did generate a password for such problem, verified my notes and had recorded it...tho so far haven't encountered login problems with karmic.

Thanks.
I don't remember entering such a password though.

Cheers.

---

### Post by ginjaninjaa on 2010-03-04
Same thing just happened to me, brand new install, second day using it.
looping back login screen, can login using failsafe gnome.....
weird.

---

### Post by velle frak on 2010-03-04
I more or less got the same problem.

I found out the following which helps, but is not a good solution in my opinion.

Press alt ctrl f1, log in in the terminal with your username and password.
Then remove your .cache file, like this

rm -Rv .cache

Press alt ctrl f7 to go back to your xsession, log in again using your username and password. This time it might work.

Problem is you lose some of your settings like that, so be warned.

Good luck ;).

---

### Post by ginjaninjaa on 2010-03-05
work perfectly thanks velle frak

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-03-06
...try to run an update, there might have been some patches made by the dev to correct that particular problem. am about sure that there is a login problem on the first distro of karmic, as i mentioned before, there was a certain instruction to keep a system generated password and use it to login should a login problem ever occur.

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-06
> **velle frak said:**
> I more or less got the same problem.

I found out the following which helps, but is not a good solution in my opinion.

Press alt ctrl f1, log in in the terminal with your username and password.
Then remove your .cache file, like this

Thanks for the suggestion, but no, this didn't help for me.

> **byStanderone said:**
> ...try to run an update, there might have been some patches made by the dev to correct that particular problem. am about sure that there is a login problem on the first distro of karmic, as i mentioned before, there was a certain instruction to keep a system generated password and use it to login should a login problem ever occur.

I'm completely up to date.

Anyone have any other ideas?

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-10
Anywhere else I can go for help?

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-16
Bump.

Did anyone else manage to fix the problem they had?

Can someone just answer and let me know to stop wasting my time in here if I'm just stuck with this.  Is this just something I need to put up with from time to time using Linux/Ubuntu?

Many thanks.

---

### Post by whiteman on 2010-03-19
> **byStanderone said:**
> ...if i remember correctly, there is a part in the installation process wherein you were ask to record a certain password which was generated by the system, stating that you have to use it should a login problem ever occur. use that password.

I sure dont remember that? I installed karmic THREE TIMES. The first time I did it via UPGRADE from within Jaunty. I kept getting that thing where they tell you to hit ESCAPE and you end up as ROOT. I thougt.."well I backed up everything so Ill do a clean install:I had a disk that was sent to me from Canonical.
Thats where the problems started.
Installed twice. Each time....It stalled at login screen. It took usewr....passwd...then back to same screen.
Sooooo
I pulled out trusty Jaunty..installed. Everything OK. I will wait for next upgrade.

---

### Post by Wlo on 2010-03-19
> **whiteman said:**
> I sure dont remember that? I installed karmic THREE TIMES. The first time I did it via UPGRADE from within Jaunty. I kept getting that thing where they tell you to hit ESCAPE and you end up as ROOT. I thougt.."well I backed up everything so Ill do a clean install:I had a disk that was sent to me from Canonical.
Thats where the problems started.
Installed twice. Each time....It stalled at login screen. It took usewr....passwd...then back to same screen.
Sooooo
I pulled out trusty Jaunty..installed. Everything OK. I will wait for next upgrade.

Well, at least I know I'm not alone and that this is definitely some sort of Ubuntu bug.  I guess I shall just have to hang on for Lucid and do a clean install.

I wonder is there anything more constructive that can be done to prevent these sort of issues slipping in?  I know in 99% of cases the community are excellent and on hand to fix things, but problems like this are a real worry.

Cheers.

Wlo.

---

