---
title: "NVidia Quadro FX 3000 problem"
date: 2008-03-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by efflux on 2008-03-13
I am running Ubuntu 7.10. I have a Quadro FX 3000 and an Eizo FlexScan S2410W (native resolution 1920x1200).

I had an ATI radeon 9200se on this system. It worked and at correct resolution all be it with needed xorg tweaks.

I do graphics so installed the Quadro FX 3000 to get more Open GL performance.

Firstly, I was not sure what driver to use with the Quadro. I did try ones from the Ubuntu repository but without success so I used Envy. It got what appears to be the correct driver 1.169. Envy also installed the Nvidia Settings GUI. After trying to restart X or even rebooting, the drivers didn't work. The xorg seemed a mess. So I ran:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

then

sudo nvidia-xconfig

I rebooted (restarting xserver never seems to work)

I land at the login screen, everything seems AOK. Correct resolution but then after logging in I get dumped to 1600x1200. This happens every single time no matter what I do. However I can then go into NVidia Settings and change to the correct resolution, the monitor adjusts and everything is OK. The NVidia Settings panel gives me the correct info and choices about my monitor. Of course this then tries to write to the xorg file and fails but I've tried adding this manually. It's not much different from what is already in the xorg by this time and it fails just the same anyway. I have to go into NVidia Settings after every boot to do this. No matter what is written in my xorg, something dumps me to 1600x1200. Although I get it working, this is starting to annoy me.

If I run:

sudo xresprobe nvidia

I get this:

id: S2410W
res: 1920x1200 1680x1680 1600x1200 1280x1024 1280x960 1024x768 800x600 720x400 640x480
freq: 31-76 59-61
disptype:

Res and freq setting shown here are correct.

This is my xorg at present.it's what nvidia-xconfig writes. There is other stuff I need to sort but forget that. It's just graphics settings I'm concerned with:



# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "S2410W"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "nVidia Corporation NV35GL [Quadro FX 3000]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "nVidia Corporation NV35GL [Quadro FX 3000]"
    Monitor        "S2410W"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1920x1200" "1680x1680" "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by efflux on 2008-03-14
OK, I just logged in as root and it works at proper resolution. I don't know how this came 
about but it's a privileges problem which I'll now have to fix.

---

