---
title: "12.10 system with optimus, bumblebee and nvidia current wont install"
date: 2012-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mobidoy on 2012-10-28
I have a system with the optimus technology, when I try to install bumblebee-nvidia, I receive a message saying that I am missing nvidia-current (>= 260.19.12~) so, I go on and try to install nvidia-current. Now it is the xorg-video-abi-11 that is missing and that it cannot be installed.

Ok so I do a little search only to find out that xorg-video-abi-11 is part of xserver-xorg-core, obviously, it is already installed but I try to reinstall it and no luck, it only say it is already to the newest version....

Anyone have ideas ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-28
# You may need headers - meta package for current version:
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic
# only reason to purge is there are several versions, if you know you have different nVidia use that:
sudo apt-get purge nvidia*
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
sudo dpkg-reconfigure nvidia-current
sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo reboot

May want nvidia-current-updates or nvidia-current-experimental-XXX for most recent testing version.

---

### Post by Mobidoy on 2012-10-28
Linux-headers-generic was already installed and, to the newest version so, I am still at the same point, when I try to install nvidia-current I get the missing xorg-video-abi-11.

If I install either nvidia-current-updates or nvidia-current-experimental-304, when I reboot, I get a desktop with only my desktop icons, no unity interface (side and top bar).

Also, if I use one of those 2 (if there is a fix for the interface), can I also install bumblebee ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-28
If you install nvidia-current-updates, did you run the dpkg command on the version?

When you see you are in the desktop but no icon or bar, right click to change desktop background
When the window appear, click all settings, now you see the system settings window.
Next, click on Software source, go in the additional drivers tab.
Select the 3 rd option, using video driver for the nvidia or AMD...

---

### Post by Mobidoy on 2012-10-28
When I follow the procedure with experimental, I get a screen at 640 X 480 resolution and, when I go to software sources, I have NO drivers listed.

I am trying to revert back to a proper resolution !

---

### Post by Mobidoy on 2012-10-28
I have switch my system to english so I get the message without needing to translate it unproperly

```
mobidoy@mobidoy-UX32VD:~$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 nvidia-current : Depends: xorg-video-abi-11 but it is not installable
                  Recommends: nvidia-settings
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.

```

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-28
I am not currently in my 12.10 install but that file does not even exist in 12.04.

Just rebooted into 12.10 and that file is not in my 12.10 either. 

Did you install nVidia from an nVidia site or have other video?
May be part of bumblebee?

---

### Post by Mobidoy on 2012-10-29
No I have not installed another driver (from nvidia) and that package is a virtual package that is provided by xserver-xorg-core and xserver-xorg-core-udeb.

If I could find a way to fix the broken package, it would probably be possible to fix the rest. So far, I have tried sudo apt-get install -f, sudo dpkg --configure -a, tried fix broken package in synaptic but it wont fix it.

I dont know if removing completely xserver-xorg-core and reinstalling it could solve this !

---

### Post by Mobidoy on 2012-10-29
I have managed to fix it, turned out that for some reason, apt could not resolve dependencies. Nvidia-current depends on xorg-video-abi-11 OR xorg-video-abi-12 OR xorg-video-abi-13 but, is only looking at 11 and does not see it.

I manually downloaded nvidia-current and installed it: 

```
apt-get install dkms

dpkg -i /home/mobidoy/Downloads/nvidia_current_304.51.really.304.43-0ubuntu1_amd64.deb

apt-get install nvidia-settings

apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia
```

reboot and voila !!!

---

