---
title: "10.10 custom resolution?"
date: 2010-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by T-Money645 on 2010-10-18
I am trying to use my Toshiba LCD HDTV as my monitor. No matter what resolution I choose, even the native resolution of my TV, the borders of the screen are out of sight. I am using an Nvidia 9600GT hooked up via HDMI. I am also using the propriety Nvidia drivers. I am looking for a way to set a custom resolution so I can see the outer edges of the screen, and I have yet to find any option for this. Thanks a ton for any and all help!

P.S- When I had XP on the is very same PC, I had to use the provided Nvidia advanced tools to resize the screen until it was all viewable on the aforementioned TV.

---

### Post by T-Money645 on 2010-10-28
Bump.  Any help is greatly appreciated, this problem is really annoying.

---

### Post by darkhelmetchris on 2010-10-28
I know this might sound basic, so let me know if this doesn't work for you and we'll dig a little deeper.

If you have loaded the proprietary nvidia driver in Ubuntu, then you should have a special tool on your System/Admin menu, called something like "NVIDIA X Server Settings".  If you use that instead of your System/Preferences/Monitors tool, then you get greater control over your resolution.

Just yell if you already found this tool.

---

### Post by T-Money645 on 2010-10-29
I have found this tool, but it does not have a way of custom resizing the screen. It has a large list or resolutions, but no matter which one I choose, the outside edges of the screen are still not visable.:(  Thanks for trying though!

---

### Post by darkhelmetchris on 2010-10-29
Alright, do you have the make/model of your display, and do you know the "native" resolution that it operates best at?

---

### Post by T-Money645 on 2010-11-05
Toshiba - 37AV502R (1280x720 native resolution)

---

### Post by darkhelmetchris on 2010-12-29
...sorry for the long delay.  I have been away for a bit.

Okay, something just occurred to me.  While I don't have your exact match on hardware, I do have some access to HDTVs and have found something quite strange.  It *appears* to me as if there may be some problem with using an HDMI cable for this exact thing.  I have found this to be a problem with my tests also.  However, when I switch to a VGA/RGB cable or a DVI cable, the problem goes away and I get much better results.  It does mean I need a seperate audio cable, but the problem seems to be well worked-around.

Could you try a VGA or DVI cable and let me know what your results are with that test?  Perhaps it's just your particular hardware combination and use of HDMI.

Also, and I know this is going to seem "silly", but.. have you done a manual calibration instead of an auto-calibration?  Perhaps using your TV's menu to do a manual calibration for screen width/height might help.  I have seen (rarely) that the auto-calibrate might not work for some TVs.  I don't know if this is a mis-detection, or just a flaw in some screens, but it's worth mentioning.  I am more optimistic in the above cable change though.

---

### Post by darkhelmetchris on 2011-01-04
Hmm, something just popped in my head.  I used a resolution tool for another problem I was having - perhaps it might help in this case.

Try this one:
```
~$ xrandr -s 1400x900
```
... but replace the 1400x900 with what you want for your own resolution.  I'm really not sure if this is going to help, but normally that's the command-line version of "set my resolution to this size right now".

There is also a scaling command and repositioning command under the man page for xrandr.  If you think you're getting somewhere, let me know, and maybe we can find a scale/position setting to add to this to make it work well for your set up.

---

### Post by darkhelmetchris on 2011-01-04
Oh, hold on... that should be more detailed...

First run this command:
```
~$ xrandr
```
and it will show you what modes it will accept.

Then pick one and run it by
```
~$ xrandr -s 0000x000
```
substituting the resolution you want.

---

