---
title: "13.10 - Too much RAM usage"
date: 2013-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lobosuelto on 2013-10-21
I have a Dell Inspiron with integrated Intel graphics chipset.
2 GB RAM, 500 GB HHD, x2 core

compiz is using 195 MB of RAM
unity-scope-home is using 165 MB RAM

In 13.04 those same processes used half of the resources they do now. Is this a bug or is this crap going really resource hungry?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2013-10-21
I am using Nvidia and don't see near that much  resource use, but the top command and system monitor fluctuate a lot , so it is hard gauge an average. Even when Compiz and Xorg  are  at their highest %/s it is not close to what you are reporting.

---

### Post by lobosuelto on 2013-10-21
When the system starts up, those processes are in their normal values. I don't know if its a matter of time or something triggers the leak ..

It had to do with the scopes I think Its solved now

---

### Post by Mateusz Stachowski on 2013-10-27
> **lobosuelto said:**
> It had to do with the scopes I think Its solved now

What does this mean? You got some updated packages and that leaks stopped or did you disable the online searching and that solved the problem.

I'm asking because I have a much higher usage of RAM memory in 13.10 than it was on 13.04. Add to that unity-scope-home always consuming the biggest chunk and it's always about 400 MiB in Gnome System Monitor. Htop also reports that process as number one in RAM usage (VIRT 992M RES 396M).

Compiz is less hungry it generaly uses about 100 MiB but still often goes as high as 200 MiB.

---

### Post by speartip on 2013-10-28
unity-scope-home is definitely the problem & it has not yet been solved.
My system was running normally at about 17% memory usage, then after I opened Unity search memory went up to 48%.
When I checked unity-scope-home was using 435mb, & as a consequence compiz went up to 215mb.
Must be a bug, I will search Launchpad to see if it has been reported.

---

### Post by Mateusz Stachowski on 2013-10-28
I disabled the online searching yesterday and today unity-scope-home was using less RAM but only when not going to other lenses. Immediately after I switched through all the lenses (applications, files & folders, videos, music, photos and friends) the memory usage went to 300 MiB in system monitor. There was also a short burst of Clementine scope process using high percentage of CPU and RAM.

---

### Post by victoralmlinx on 2014-03-25
I was getting the same problem, then I see that solution. On terminal type:
```
[FONT=Ubuntu Mono]unity --replace &[/FONT]
```
Original post: [Why is Unity (Compiz) consuming more and more RAM?]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/41361/why-is-unity-compiz-consuming-more-and-more-ram")

---

