---
title: "18.04 LTS Questions"
date: 2019-07-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joburg on 2019-07-08
Ubuntu 18.04.2 LTS

I have upgraded from Ubuntu 14.04 to 18.04.2 LTS and have a few questions now:

1) How do I now create a new document in a folder (previously Right Click/New Document)?

2) How do I now create a link to a folder or file (previously Right Click/Make Link)?

3) How do I get the date to be displayed with the time on top of the screen?

4) How do I get the date and time to be displayed in Afrikaans (I can’t find Afrikaans on the list of installed languages)?

5) The .deb packages for apps installed from the Snap Store are not downloaded to /var/cache/apt/archives/ like other apps. Where are those packages downloaded to? I need then to install the software on my offline computers.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-07-08
1: I think it hasn't changed. If you want to create a new file from a template, make sure a template exists in your templates directory. The exact name of that directory depends your locale, see```
grep TEMPLATES ~/.config/user-dirs.dirs
```

4: Have you made sure **language-pack-af-base** is installed? Use the package manager.

5: Snap packages are not in .deb files but in .snap. I don't know where they're stored. I don't use snaps.

---

### Post by joburg on 2019-07-08
Thanks Impavidus.

1 & 2: "New Document" and "Make Link" was part of the Right Click menu in 14.04, but it is not there anymore.

4: I can't find **language-pack-af-base **in the package manager.

5: Thanks, I think I found the .snap packages.

---

### Post by cellsite60 on 2019-07-08
1. Open your text editor and save an empy document in your templates folder.

2. no idea :lol:

3. install Gnome Tweaks, check under system or something under the paragraph: Clock, there you will find weekday, date etc.

4.Open Settings Manager, click Regions & Language, Handle Installed Language, Install/Remove Language on the popup box, after that is done, Check in the tab Regional Formats.

5. /var/snap

Hope that helps a little, my system is not in english so it might not be totally accurate directions ;)

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-08
I can always use the terminal to create a new document or I could open the text editor and save an empty text file.
Command line way

Open a terminal and use the following commands:
```

touch ~/Templates/Empty\ Document
```

This will create a new empty file named ‘Empty Document’ in Templates directory for you. And now when you right click in the file manager, you’ll see the New Document option.
**"Create Link"**
Open Nautilus and go to Preferences -> Behavior.

Enable the option _"Show action to create symbolic links"_. Now you have the "Create Link" context menu entry in Nautilus.
Creating symbolic links for folders is not difficult either. The command used to create the folder symbolic link is:
```

ln -s [Specific file/directory] [symlink name]
```


You can remove existing links attached to files or directories by the unlink or rm command.
```

unlink [symlink to remove]
```

Removing symbolic link using the rm command is similar to the unlink command which is as under:
```

rm [symlink name]
```
I assume the rest of your questions has been addressed from the above suggestions

---

### Post by joburg on 2019-07-09
Thanks everyone for the help. All my queries are now solved except for nos 3 and 4.

To cellsite60

3: How do you install Gnome Tweaks? I can't find it in the Ubuntu Software.

4: There are no other languages appart from English for different  countries under Install/Remove Language. Must I not load other languages  first, and if so, how do I do it? I know that there was other languages  (including Afrikaans) available under Install/Remove Language back when  I installed 14.04, but there is nothing but English in 18.04.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2019-07-09
> **joburg said:**
> 3: How do you install Gnome Tweaks? I can't find it in the Ubuntu Software.

It is in the Ubuntu Software Centre - try **tweak** in the searchbar.

Alternatively, you can install via the terminal

```
sudo apt install gnome-tweaks
```

Best wishes

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2019-07-09
/var/snap is typically an empty directory. i believe it's the system-wide data directory.
(It's typically empty because most snaps will run by a local non-root user so their data will be in their home folder's snap directory)

snaps are located in /var/lib/snapd/snaps.

But disregard that location, and instead use the snap tools to download and install snaps locally.
Simply download your snaps
```
snap download <snap-package-name>
```
and install them

(note you need to know two things about snaps.

1) All snaps require a core snap to run, so install the cores (There are currently two different cores: core and core18, install both
Install both because some apps require one and some apps require the other)

2) To install snaps locally you must add the snap's assertion
(when you use the download command it'll download the snap file and an assert file))

So to install run
```
sudo snap ack /path/to/snap.assert
sudo snap install /path/to/snap.snap
```

---

### Post by joburg on 2019-07-09
Thanks tea for one, I found Gnome Tweaks now in the Software Centre. I must have missed it when I looked the first time. By the way, shouldn't that be part of the normal System Settings installed from the install disk?

Thanks also deadflowr, that is usefull information to know.

The only unsolved issue now is to get the date in Afrikaans on top of the screen. I have now mannaged to download and install (tick) Afrikaans in Region & Language, but it still does not appear on the list of languages in Regional Formats. It is still only a list of English for different countries. I have even reboot, but the list remains English.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-09
Did you drag it to the top of the list? Not just tick it but drag it to the top.
> I must have missed it when I looked the first time. By the way, shouldn't that be part of the normal System Settings installed from the install disk?
Ubuntu dose not include it, but other's do.

---

### Post by joburg on 2019-07-09
> **1fallen said:**
> Did you drag it to the top of the list? Not just tick it but drag it to the top.

Ubuntu dose not include it, but other's do.

It is not on the list in the Language tab. I clicked Install/Remove  Languages and ticked it there. That list is in alphabetical order so it  is on top of the list there. Then I opened the Regional Formats tab, but  on that list is only a list of English for several different countries.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-09
can you show me this:
```
gnome-language-selector
```

---

### Post by joburg on 2019-07-09
> **1fallen said:**
> can you show me this:
```
gnome-language-selector
```

I can copy it to my clipboard, but how do I post it then here?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-09
Screenshot. ;)
Crap, I just saw how new you are with 6 beans I'm not sure if you can.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-09
> Then I opened the Regional Formats tab, but on that list is only a list of English for several different countries. 
Was South Africa listed? (Long Shot as I have no knowldge with this Lang-Pack)

---

### Post by joburg on 2019-07-10
> **1fallen said:**
> Was South Africa listed? (Long Shot as I have no knowldge with this Lang-Pack)

Yes, "English (South Africa)" is on the list AND it is the selected language there.

Someone suggested to me that he had a similar problem when he installed an earlier version of ubuntu and that he installed "uim" then which solved the problem. What is "uim" and would it work for ubuntu 18.04.2 also, or would it damage my system?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-10
> **joburg said:**
> Yes, "English (South Africa)" is on the list AND it is the selected language there.

Someone suggested to me that he had a similar problem when he installed an earlier version of ubuntu and that he installed "uim" then which solved the problem. What is "uim" and would it work for ubuntu 18.04.2 also, or would it damage my system?

A multilingual input method framework. Or for plain english, "Universal Input Method"
I'm really not sure if this will help your case or not, see below:
```
uim-sh -e installed-im-list
(anthy anthy-utf8 skk tutcode byeoru latin elatin m17n-ru-kbd m17n-ru-phonetic m17n-ru-translit m17n-ru-yawerty m17n-sa-harvard-kyoto m17n-sa-IAST m17n-sa-itrans m17n-sd-inscript m17n-si-phonetic-dynamic m17n-si-samanala m17n-si-singlish m17n-si-sumihiri m17n-si-transliteration m17n-si-wijesekera m17n-sk-kbd m17n-sr-kbd m17n-sv-post m17n-ta-inscript m17n-ta-itrans m17n-ta-lk-renganathan m17n-ta-phonetic m17n-ta-tamil99 m17n-ta-typewriter m17n-ta-vutam m17n-tai-sonla-kbd m17n-te-apple m17n-te-inscript m17n-te-itrans m17n-te-pothana m17n-te-rts m17n-te-sarala m17n-th-kesmanee m17n-th-pattachote m17n-th-tis820 m17n-ug-kbd m17n-uk-kbd m17n-ur-phonetic m17n-uz-kbd m17n-vi-han m17n-vi-nomvni m17n-vi-nomtelex m17n-vi-tcvn m17n-vi-telex m17n-vi-viqr m17n-vi-vni m17n-yi-yivo m17n-zh-bopomofo m17n-zh-cangjie m17n-zh-pinyin-vi m17n-zh-pinyin m17n-zh-py-b5 m17n-zh-py-gb m17n-zh-py m17n-zh-quick m17n-zh-tonepy-b5 m17n-zh-tonepy-gb m17n-zh-tonepy m17n-zh-zhuyin m17n-am-sera m17n-ar-kbd m17n-ar-translit m17n-as-inscript m17n-as-itrans m17n-as-phonetic m17n-ath-phonetic m17n-be-kbd m17n-bla-phonetic m17n-bn-disha m17n-bn-inscript m17n-bn-itrans m17n-bn-probhat m17n-bn-unijoy m17n-bo-ewts m17n-bo-tcrc m17n-bo-wylie m17n-cmc-kbd m17n-cr-western m17n-cs-kbd m17n-da-post m17n-dv-phonetic m17n-el-kbd m17n-eo-h-fundamente m17n-eo-h-sistemo m17n-eo-plena m17n-eo-q-sistemo m17n-eo-vi-sistemo m17n-eo-x-sistemo m17n-fa-isiri m17n-fr-azerty m17n-grc-mizuochi m17n-gu-inscript m17n-gu-itrans m17n-gu-phonetic m17n-he-kbd m17n-hi-inscript m17n-hi-itrans m17n-hi-optitransv2 m17n-hi-phonetic m17n-hi-remington m17n-hi-typewriter m17n-hi-vedmata m17n-hr-kbd m17n-hy-kbd m17n-ii-phonetic m17n-en-ispell m17n-iu-phonetic m17n-ja-anthy m17n-ja-tcode m17n-ja-trycode m17n-ka-kbd m17n-kk-arabic m17n-kk-kbd m17n-km-yannis m17n-kn-inscript m17n-kn-itrans m17n-kn-kgp m17n-kn-optitransv2 m17n-kn-typewriter m17n-ko-han2 m17n-ko-romaja m17n-ks-inscript m17n-ks-kbd m17n-lo-kbd m17n-lo-lrt m17n-mai-inscript m17n-rfc1345 m17n-ssymbol m17n-syrc-phonetic m17n-unicode m17n-latn-post m17n-latn-pre m17n-latn1-pre m17n-lsymbol m17n-math-latex m17n-ml-enhanced-inscript m17n-ml-inscript m17n-ml-itrans m17n-ml-mozhi m17n-ml-remington m17n-ml-swanalekha m17n-mr-inscript m17n-mr-itrans m17n-mr-phonetic m17n-mr-remington m17n-mr-typewriter m17n-my-kbd m17n-ne-rom-translit m17n-ne-rom m17n-ne-trad-ttf m17n-ne-trad m17n-nsk-phonetic m17n-oj-phonetic m17n-or-inscript m17n-or-itrans m17n-or-phonetic m17n-pa-anmollipi m17n-pa-inscript m17n-pa-itrans m17n-pa-jhelum m17n-pa-phonetic m17n-ps-phonetic zm wb86 py pyunihan pinyin-big5 viqr ipa-x-sampa look ajax-ime google-cgiapi-jp baidu-olime-jp)


```
If you choose this route, here is what would be installed: [https://packages.ubuntu.com/bionic/uim](https://packages.ubuntu.com/bionic/uim)

---

### Post by joburg on 2019-07-10
Thanks everyone for your help, but I decided to rather revert back to Ubuntu 16.04 or even 14.04. There is just to many changes which I have to figure out and I really do not have  the time to try and figure out everything from scratch again. I have changed from Windows to Ubuntu exactly because I had to learn everything from scratch every time I upgraded Windows, and now Ubuntu is exactly the same. I will rather stick with what I already know, even if it is not supported any more.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2019-07-10
If you reinstall and older release go with 16.04.
14.04 is dead.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-07-11
14.04 is dead, so no updates, no security updates and no browser updates, so not only will you be inviting hackers, but you'll also see that websites will fail to load as they begin to rely on features not supported by your old software.

Xubuntu has a more conservative approach to GUI changes than Ubuntu. You may prefer it. Note that Xubuntu LTS releases only get 3 years of support, so 16.04 is already dead. Or try one of the other light flavours.

---

### Post by jwn-2 on 2019-07-11
No 14.04 is not dead. It is still running happily on my computer and wil do for the next hundred years as long as all automatic updates are blocked.

---

### Post by speartip on 2019-07-12
> **jwn-2 said:**
> No 14.04 is not dead. It is still running happily on my computer and wil do for the next hundred years as long as all automatic updates are blocked.
Not a recommended thing to do though.
I can understand the OPs frustration. I personally just cannot get on with Gnome Shell. Perhaps installing XFCE or Budgie might be more beneficial. I find Ubuntu Budgie a brilliant alternative to Gnome Shell.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-07-12
It's really dead. Maybe 14.04 is still running on your computer as a zombie. But you see, zombies spread diseases, like parasites and other malware, so we strongly suggest you destroy them.

---

