---
title: "12.04 LTS 64 bit LIVE CD - CD keeps spinning"
date: 2013-07-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KeepItSimpleStupid on 2013-07-09
I have no idea, but it has happened twice so far.  Probably both times running Firefox.

The CD drive suddenly started spinning and would not quit.  Ctrl+alt+t would not bring up the Terminal.  Mouse movements were VERY eratic.  Clicking on the close box of a window was unresponsive.  Only cure was to reboot.

Additional items used - wireless
Additional items installed
Network printer driver
Adobe Flash

Firefox was displaying:  transferring data from usum5-mail.yahoo.com and Firefox was the active window,

---

### Post by KeepItSimpleStupid on 2013-07-10
This happened again today, but sometimes I could get a character in here and there.    Seems like the character buffer should be able to get input while the disk is spining.

The only real difference is Flash was installed.  The only cure was to reboot.  I tried to get a ps list.

I doubt  there should be a reason for the CD to just not quit.

I do use a variation of the floowing to install Flas:

[http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10_64bit.html](http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer10_64bit.html)

By default Firefox in Ubuntu 10.04 will download all files to the Downloads folder in your home area.
Next open a terminal and type the following,
tar -xf ~/Downloads/libflashplayer-10.0.45.2.linux-x86_64.so.tar.gz
[B]sudo mv libflashplayer.so /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins
[/B]
The above won't work as is.  
 
It's more like start here: [http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/](http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/) and download the 64 bit tar.gz version.  This **sudo mv libflashplayer.so /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins**  is the most important part.

Download from Adobe
unpack and move

Not sure of the quickest way to get there.  Very new to UBUNTU.  Some unix experience as early as 1975.  Some cygwin and Solaris experience.  Near zero experience at the system level.

---

