---
title: "v12.04 still has touchpad/keyboard freeze after suspend?"
date: 2012-07-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hesson on 2012-07-08
Hi,

So I installed Ubuntu 12.04 a couple of days ago and I really love it. But there is the problem that whenever I suspend the computer and wake it up later, the keyboard and touchpad are no longer functional. I've searched up this bug online and it has existed at least since version 7 or 8, yet I find it really strange that such an inconvenient bug could survive all this time without having an official fix. Is it just me who has this bug on v12, am I missing something here? My system is up to date.
I have tried several of the workarounds suggested on the forums I saw such as putting a file in /etc/pm/config.d/, but to no avail.

My computer is a Sony Vaio laptop if that helps.

Thank you

---

### Post by uRock on 2012-07-09
> **hesson said:**
> Hi,

So I installed Ubuntu 12.04 a couple of days ago and I really love it. But there is the problem that whenever I suspend the computer and wake it up later, the keyboard and touchpad are no longer functional. I've searched up this bug online and it has existed at least since version 7 or 8, yet I find it really strange that such an inconvenient bug could survive all this time without having an official fix. Is it just me who has this bug on v12, am I missing something here? My system is up to date.
I have tried several of the workarounds suggested on the forums I saw such as putting a file in /etc/pm/config.d/, but to no avail.

My computer is a Sony Vaio laptop if that helps.

Thank you

Hello and welcome to the forums.

I have never experienced such a problem. If you could run the **lspci** command in a terminal, then it may help us in diagnosing the problem. Also, a link to the current bug report for 12.04 with this issue would be helpful.

---

### Post by hesson on 2012-07-09
> **uRock said:**
> Hello and welcome to the forums.

I have never experienced such a problem. If you could run the **lspci** command in a terminal, then it may help us in diagnosing the problem. Also, a link to the current bug report for 12.04 with this issue would be helpful.

Hi, thanks for your reply. Here is my output:

[amer@ubuntu ~]$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family DRAM Controller (rev 09)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Xeon E3-1200/2nd Generation Core Processor Family PCI Express Root Port (rev 09)
00:14.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation Panther Point USB xHCI Host Controller (rev 04)
00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation Panther Point MEI Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1a.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation Panther Point USB Enhanced Host Controller #2 (rev 04)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation Panther Point High Definition Audio Controller (rev 04)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Panther Point PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev c4)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Panther Point PCI Express Root Port 2 (rev c4)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation Panther Point PCI Express Root Port 3 (rev c4)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation Panther Point USB Enhanced Host Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation Panther Point LPC Controller (rev 04)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation Panther Point 6 port SATA Controller [AHCI mode] (rev 04)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation Panther Point SMBus Controller (rev 04)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Thames [Radeon 7500M/7600M Series]
01:00.1 Audio device: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] nee ATI Turks HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 6000 Series]
07:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9485 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
08:00.0 Unassigned class [ff00]: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTS5116 PCI Express Card Reader (rev 01)
09:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 07)

I'm not sure what you mean by bug report for 12.04, but here is a bug report that I found with the same problem: 
[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-bugs/2006-March/011353.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/kernel-bugs/2006-March/011353.html)
and also a person on the forum with a similar problem:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/89324/touchpad-stops-working-after-suspend-on-a-clevo-m55n](http://askubuntu.com/questions/89324/touchpad-stops-working-after-suspend-on-a-clevo-m55n)

I've attempted some of the fixes suggested but nothing has worked for me.

Thanks.

---

### Post by hesson on 2012-07-09
I found that when I  connect a USB mouse, it works but the touchpad and keyboard still do not work. Can someone please offer a suggestion as to how to fix this situation?
Thanks

---

### Post by trackisimo on 2012-09-21
Hi,

Please see this solution on thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1335007&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1335007&page=2)


This is working for my Sony vaio with 12.04 LTS.

---

