---
title: "14.04 very slow, especially typing delays (help with managing resources)"
date: 2016-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pjstock on 2016-03-02
I'm using Ubunut 14.04.

on an admittedly kind of old (and maybe completely outdated) desktop
Memory 4Gb
Processor: Intel® Pentium(R) Dual CPU E2200 @ 2.20GHz × 2 
OS Type 32 bit
Disk 20gb (thatt's for the Ubuntu partition, with about 4Gb free)

Recently (and without to the best of my knowledge much or any system changes) everything has bogged down. Especially annoying is a delaying in typing, whether emails in Thunderbird or an Open Office document. (there can be a several second delay from when I type to characters appearing on the screen, which gets things all out of whack.)
I don't need a super high performance machine,  I mostly type and browse. But when the screen can't keep up to even my pretty slow typing speed, it drives me crazy.

Reading up I found something about TOP to examine resource usage, and so I thought there might be some clues to problems there.
but of course I can't decipher it really.

I've posted the output from TOP here:
[https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7br2lxM5aUtVEkyUElqZnpJTm8/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7br2lxM5aUtVEkyUElqZnpJTm8/view?usp=sharing)

Can someone advise on suggested fixes, what's going on or best steps?

Many thanks as always

Peter

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2016-03-02
You can try a different/lighter desktop.  For testing you could load the Flashback desktop.  This will get you off Unity/Compiz and put you on Metacity window manager.

```
sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
```

And choose your desktop at the login screen (top right button).

PS
Please post the output of "free -m".  I will not download such things :)

---

### Post by pjstock on 2016-03-02
thank you.

here is the result of free -m
peter@Peter-Desk:~$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3971       3614        356        546        385       1359
-/+ buffers/cache:       1869       2101
Swap:         4014        141       3873


Should I also post the results of TOP?

---

### Post by tom-bellas3rd on 2016-03-02
You shouldnt see that much slowdown on the specs you've mentioned. 

Mines comparable in someways:
Memory: 4.8gb (5 gigs)
Processor: AMD Athlon 64 X2 Duel Core Processor 4200+ x2
OS Type: 64-Bit
Disk 309.6 GB

And with those specs 14.04.4 Unity Desktop flies.

---

### Post by pjstock on 2016-03-02
Hmm, well when I am just typing an email for instance (at least until I posted this problem), it can take 2-3 seconds to either reposition the cursor, to backspace over some text or to get the dropdown list of suggestions when I Right click on a misspelled word.

How do I know which desktop I am operating under?
after I ran that code: sudo apt-get install gnome-panel did something change automatically or do I have to choose one desktop vs. another?

after running the code and logging back on, don't see any obvious "button" in the upper RH corner (I see a circle with a figure in it with dropdown options" Onscreen Keyboard, High Contrast and Screen Reader, but I don't remember if that is new or old)

(though oddly, things seem to be zippier now. I don't know what changed)

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2016-03-02
Maybe you should try a update, may help.

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

And I do not run Unity, but that button got to be there somewhere.  Is there a button (maybe a gear) in the login window?

---

### Post by tom-bellas3rd on 2016-03-02
I would take a peek at the system monitor when it gets sluggish. Look at the CPU usage and then look at the process and see whats holding everything up. Worse case, I would install another desktop like Lubuntu or Ubuntu-Mate from scratch. But in all honesty, Unity shouldnt bottleneck your system that bad.

---

### Post by pjstock on 2016-03-02
and... back to sluggish. after about an hour of spritely work, things seem to have bogged down to a crawl again. 

Looking at System Monitor, a process labelled mount.ntfs is using as much as 50% of CPU.
That sounds HDD related and specifically the Windows partition. 
can anyone shed light?

Now, I DID look into increasing the Ubuntu partition the other day and DID peek into Gparted from a Live boot from USB. But I thought I bailed out of that without doing any damage or making any changes. 
Might I have messed something up there?

---

### Post by pjstock on 2016-05-16
In the end, I cleaned off this HDD, and just reformatted it.
First as FAT (because I thought NTFS was causing the problems) but then, once i realized how limiting FAT filesystem was, again as NTFS.
This seems to have cleared things up.
I am not having the same slow down problems.
So I expect that there was a problem with the disk itself that the reformat fixed.

---

