---
title: "NVIDIA Driver Issues (9-series)"
date: 2009-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by IOA on 2009-01-20
I wasn't sure where to put this, but I figured this would be the best place...


I recently fixed my Linux partition after screwing around with Windows for a while, and in the time that I wasn't using Linux, I'd taken out the old 8600 GT I had in my PC and replaced it with a 9800 GT. I thought there might be some issue with putting in a new card, and I guess I've run into that issue. Whenever I boot into Ubuntu, it says I have to boot in "Low-graphics mode". I assume this and the other problems I've had (not being able to detect the monitor or graphics card) is due to bad drivers. I decided to get and install the new Linux beta drivers from NVIDIA (version 180.22) for the 9-series cards. That installed fine after I stopped GDM and ran it, but when I restarted GDM I was still running into the same problems. I can't run any 3D apps, my 3D screensaver doesn't display, and it can't figure out what my monitor is or anything. I've checked the "Restricted Drivers Manager" and it says my hardware doesn't require any restricted drivers. I also checked the Screens and Graphics dialogue to see which drivers I could choose from, and none of them were the drivers I'd just downloaded. Is there something I need to do to "enable" or "activate" these drivers I installed? If you guys need to know anything more about my PC, I'd be more than happy to answer. Thanks in advance.

Best regards,

-IOA

---

### Post by geoffjay on 2009-01-20
You might want to try running the following commands to see if they help:

$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
$ sudo nvidia-xconfig

and then restart X.

I'm currently also having an issue with the 180.22 + 9800GT combination, for both 8.04 and 8.10 after installing the driver the resolution does not match the screen so it is not displaying about 3-4% total around the edge. Everything else is good though.

---

### Post by IOA on 2009-01-20
That didn't work...

Thanks for helping and replying though.

---

### Post by IOA on 2009-01-21
Any ideas? It's been a day and googling hasn't done me any justice.

---

### Post by IOA on 2009-01-31
Hm well, the last week I stopped worrying about the problem, so I figured I'd look into it again today.

From what I've found and troubleshooted, apparently the drivers ARE installed, but Xorg or whatever just isn't using them. I ran the installer again today and it said that NVIDIA would modify my xorg.conf to load the NVIDIA X server, but apparently that didn't happen? I checked the NVIDIA X server settings and it said I wasn't running the NVIDIA X server. I'm not sure. Here's my xorg.conf just in case though: 


> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder63) Tue Jan 6 10:03:02 PST 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
Driver "kbd"
Option "XkbRules" "xorg"
Option "XkbModel" "pc105"
Option "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Configured Mouse"
Driver "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
VendorName "Plug 'n' Play"
ModelName "Plug 'n' Play"
Gamma 1
ModeLine "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nvidia"
BoardName "vesa"
Screen 0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Virtual 640 480
Depth 24
Modes "640x480@60"
EndSubSection
EndSection 

---

### Post by Twitch6000 on 2009-01-31
I think this needs moved to general help <.<.

As for your problem I forget how to do this,but I know someone around here would know, you need to edit the xorg to tell it your driver is there(is all I can remember).

---

### Post by IOA on 2009-01-31
Yeah I'm never quite sure where to put things on the Ubuntu forums, there's tons of different categories. If I put this in the wrong forum I apologize, I wasn't sure where to put it.

Also, that'd be great if you or someone else could tell me how to get xorg to use the drivers.

---

### Post by Perfect Storm on 2009-02-01
Thread moved.

---

### Post by IOA on 2009-02-02
Again, it's been a day, and I've been really eager to get down to fixing this. I realize what the problem is, but does no one seriously know how to fix it? I've got my drivers installed, I've got them enabled, but xorg just isn't using them...it's like having a car and keys, but not knowing how to put it in the ignition.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-02-02
> **IOA said:**
> Again, it's been a day, and I've been really eager to get down to fixing this. I realize what the problem is, but does no one seriously know how to fix it? I've got my drivers installed, I've got them enabled, but xorg just isn't using them...it's like having a car and keys, but not knowing how to put it in the ignition.

Try this: (When you are using 32 bits Ubuntu you use the 32 bits drivers of course)


 Re: Getting Nvidia drivers working on a clean Intrepid Install (or a broken Hardy)
I really hope this helps someone.

For my situation, with X not working and a command line only, this got my system back up:

1. removing all nvidia related packages (which allowed X to realize why it wasn't working and build a barebones xorg.conf)

Code:

sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia*

That made it so i could have a gui for a time, but no graphical acceleration. X prompted me when it started for it to create a basic xorg, and I clicked yes. Shortly after, x started and i had my screen working. (yay!)

2. Ensure that all nvidia packages are gone in Synaptic. So I just searched for nvidia and uninstalled anything directly related to it (had nvidia in the name).

3. Now for the tough part, getting graphical acceleration working again. First step is to make sure the old types of drivers are on the disabled list in /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common

Code:

sudo gedit /etc/default/linux-restricted-modules-common

and in the DisabledModules section, put, "nv nvidia_new" ,in the quotes and save.

4. Before stopping the xserver, I downloaded the latest nvidia drivers, 180.22, from their site here. There is also 64 bit here. Yea, it turns out I was delusional about having 64bit .

5. Once the package was downloaded, i did ctrl+alt+F1 in order to get to a command line outside of x and stopped x with
Code:

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

This stopped the xserver so we could do other things without it getting in the way.

6. To install the drivers, do this:
Code:

sudo sh NVIDIA(then I press TAB so I don't have to type the whole filename out)

6a. The Nvidia Install asks some questions about packages, but the right way around is to say yes to everything. At the end it will ask about making a xorg.conf file, and you also agree to that.

7. Ah, here's the rub. Upon this, I had a bricked system again, however, with some determination, it was up again.
There are two steps to finishing the job.
First:
Code:

sudo lspci | grep VGA

This will show you the PCI numbers of your graphics cards. They are written like this: ##.##.# Write down this number for the next step.

Now edit xorg.conf with nano:
Code:

sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf

This allows you to edit xorg.conf w/o a GUI or gedit.

In xorg.conf, go to the Device section, and add a line that reads
Code:

Busid      "PCI:#:#:#"

The numbers should be the numerical values that the first part of this step found, for me step one gave 01:00.0, so step two had "PCI:1:0:0". Save this file by doing ctrl+X, and pressing Y for yes.

8. Reboot and whatnot.

I believe these steps produced a working system for me, although the system insists that I have no restricted drivers at work (LIAR!). Sorry for the convoluted directions, this is day 3 of working on this problem for me and it's getting rather tiring. Hope this helps someone like in my previous situation.

---

### Post by IOA on 2009-02-02
That seemed like it should have worked, but it didn't do anything... :|

---

