---
title: "9.10~how do I resolve permissions to files with in folders?"
date: 2010-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KEE on 2010-01-04
k im using shell to change permissions after a mistake i did to the to a directory. ```
chown user /~/some_file 
``` 
but there are other files with in. how do I use that to all files within the folder? plaese and thank you

---

### Post by doas777 on 2010-01-04
you have too many slashes. I'll leave it to you to determine which one to hack.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-01-04
To change ownership:

sudo chown [username]:[usergroup] /path/to/folder/

To change permissions:

chmod 777 /path/to/folder/*

(The 777 is permit anything for anyone and the * wild card will perform this on every file in the above folder.  I leave it up to you to modify the command for your specific situation.)

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-01-04
You're looking for the -R operator:

chown -R username:usergroup /path/to/folder

The "-R" means recursively. Every child folder and file will change to that ownership .

---

### Post by doas777 on 2010-01-05
just remember '/', '~', and '/~' are all differant locations (the last one is illegal: "bash: cd: /~: No such file or directory") 

~ refers to your home directory root, usually located at /home/<username>/

also a word of caution: you only want to take ownership of things that you Know you should own. Ubuntu will not work correctly if you take ownership of the wrong files (or pretty much anything outside of /home).

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-01-09
> **doas777 said:**
> just remember '/', '~', and '/~' are all differant locations (the last one is illegal: "bash: cd: /~: No such file or directory") 

~ refers to your home directory root, usually located at /home/<username>/

also a word of caution: you only want to take ownership of things that you Know you should own. Ubuntu will not work correctly if you take ownership of the wrong files (or pretty much anything outside of /home).

well it says im a "invalid user"
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo chown me /media/disk/home/me/*
chown: invalid user: `me'
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 

```

---

### Post by ptviperz on 2010-01-09
> **KEE said:**
> well it says im a "invalid user"
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo chown me /media/disk/home/me/*
chown: invalid user: `me'
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 

```

sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /media/disk/home/me/

you don't need the asterisk at the end

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-01-09
> **ptviperz said:**
> sudo chown -R ubuntu:ubuntu /media/disk/home/me/

you don't need the asterisk at the end
ok 
so```
root@ubuntu:~# sudo chown -R root:me /media/disk/home/me/
```is this right?

i have full access to my files now but it still cannot reboot right. im missing top/bottom toolbar and alt-f2 is unresponsive. my pw is not being asked so is this profile broken? should i just reinstall and backup those files to a new install? thank again =)

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-01-09
is 9.10 corrupted? it seems i have to change my permissions to have access my own files and with out a livecd, my pc wont start up properly. does 9.10 use a different shell?

---

### Post by ptviperz on 2010-01-09
You can't change all the files to be owned by the root user, your normal account won't have access to them anymore

sudo chown -R username:group /media/disk/home/me/

username is the normal login name for your computer, usually group is the same name so if your login is steve, the command would be

sudo chown -R steve:steve /media/disk/home/me/

If username is 'me'

sudo chown -R me:me /media/disk/home/me/

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-01-09
no thats not it either, it says my user is invalid but my  home is still ~/me/ so should I be in root to fix that?

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-01-09
seems like 9.10 is broken =/ its ok ill wait till someone fixes those errors for 9.10 im just gona copy and paste my files to 9.04 hardy. good luck to anyone else with 9.10, those ownership hackers are a pain but at least its not permanently infiltrated, i can get to and retrieve my home folder now . thanks =D

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-01-09
I didn't realize you were working on the ownership and permissions of your Home folder.  Do you understand what your ownership and permissions should look like throughout your Home folder hierarchy?

---

