---
title: "[14.04] mouse icon in top panel"
date: 2014-09-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LuigiMazzini on 2014-09-20
I'm trying to find out how can I get rid of the mouse icon that appeared in the panel after plugging in the Logitech M187 mouse. I would like to get back the battery icon which can currently be visible only if I click on the mouse icon.

[[IMG]http://i1273.photobucket.com/albums/y416/LuigiMazzini/icons_zpsa2156348.png[/IMG]]("http://s1273.photobucket.com/user/LuigiMazzini/media/icons_zpsa2156348.png.html")

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-09-21
Did you install some sort of mouse software?

You could try resetting the panel.  I assume this is Unity which I do not run, but I think the command to reset panel icons is:
```
unity --reset-icons
```
And to completely reset Unity:
```
setsid unity
```

---

### Post by LuigiMazzini on 2014-09-21
Thanks for your reply.
I didn't install any mouse software. (I'm not 100% but I would probably remember.)
Correct, this is Unity.
I tried both commands which did reset the pannel but the mouse icon is still present. Seems it's there by default. Obviously it depends on the type of the mouse.

After reboot I noticed everything was exactly as I wanted but after a few seconds the mouse icon appeared again. The only difference is that if i click on tne mouse icon, the battery icon is now higher on the list (1st place, before it was on 2nd - after mouse).  
It is not so disturbing but I have to say I'd be a little disappointed if there was really no possibility to change it without changing the mouse model.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2014-09-21
If the mouse has a battery then it will take precedence over the laptop battery. They didn't seem to include an option as to which icon will be displayed (mouse or laptop battery

---

### Post by LuigiMazzini on 2014-09-21
Obviously. But it wasn't happening with other mouse (also Logitech, with a battery, but it's about 10 years old so I can't determine which model).
Anyway, I'll get accustomed to the new little change.
Thanks for helping.

---

