---
title: "10.04 can't double click run script"
date: 2010-09-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ayu on 2010-09-03
Hello,

Upgraded to 10.04 a couple of weeks ago. Today I wanted to run a shell script file by double clicking on it in Nautilus, but it only opens in gedit, and does not ask if I want to run it. File permissions have been set with +x. The script works if I open a terminal and run it that way. The script worked perfectly before. Any ideas why?

Thank you,
Ayu

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-09-05
Possibly nautilus doesn't have the right file associations.  One way of doing it is per session and one way makes the change permanent, and I can never remember which is which.  But, in any case, here's one:  right-click on the shell script in nautilus, select "open with other application."  On my system "sh" is one of the applications available.  Select that, tick the box for "always use"  and hopefully that should be it.

---

### Post by ayu on 2010-09-08
> **quixote said:**
> Possibly nautilus doesn't have the right file associations.  One way of doing it is per session and one way makes the change permanent, and I can never remember which is which.  But, in any case, here's one:  right-click on the shell script in nautilus, select "open with other application."  On my system "sh" is one of the applications available.  Select that, tick the box for "always use"  and hopefully that should be it.

Thank you for your suggestion. Unfortunately it did not work.

I've noticed on my other system where it does work, in Nautilus the association for shell scripts is still gedit.

---

### Post by TwelveGauge on 2010-09-08
Well there's always the terminal: 
```
./scriptname.sh
```

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-09-08
Hmm.  Given that the script works everywhere except in Nautilus on that particular system, it's got to be something peculiar to that setup.  Check the permissions: is it +x for all?  Or maybe only for the user on your other machine, but not on the one where it won't run?  ??  (Purely guessing, as you can tell.)

---

### Post by ubulal on 2010-09-08
In nautilus got to Edit -> Preferences -> Behavior and mark "Ask each time".

---

### Post by ayu on 2010-09-08
> **ubulal said:**
> In nautilus got to Edit -> Preferences -> Behavior and mark "Ask each time".

Thank you! Strange how it got changed during the upgrade. Thread marked as solve.

---

