---
title: "Need help with configuring my video card and correct resolution settings"
date: 2009-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ghostnik11 on 2009-11-13
Hello, for the past few days I have been trying to set up my correct settings for my video card and my monitor (which currently is a sony bravia 26 inch flat screen).  The problem is that I wanted to add desktop effects but I could not due to the fact that ubuntu told me that I could not enable desktop effects.  So then I ran compiz-check and this is what I got:
[HTML]
 Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         ATI Technologies Inc Rage 128 Pro Ultra TF
 Driver in use:         vesa
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...  [SKIP]

 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
 Error: vesa driver in use 

Would you like to know more? (Y/n) y

 The vesa driver is not capable of running Compiz, you need to install
 the proper driver for your graphics card. 

Check if there's an alternate (proprietary) driver available? (Y/n) y[/HTML]

Then when I select yes for the alternate driver available, the hardware driver component thing comes up and shows no driver.  So what I did was start looking around on how to solve this but got no idea so I ran a x org command and got this:

[HTML]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection[/HTML]

Also when I turn on ubuntu it tells me it is running in low graphics mode and UI comes up and then when I try to change the resolution and the graphic chip that is in the low graphics mode UI and press test I get a screen grainey with static, like with tube tv's before cable and you get a static channel with just black and white pixels.  So can someone help me please I just want to get my configurations correct so I can have desktop effects enabled.  Also I am running a dell optiplex gx240 with ubuntu 8.04 hardy heron.  Thanks for the help in advance****

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-11-13
wow, a rage 128? that is likely your issue. the new drivers are too new to work with a 9 year old card. same thing for nvidia. cards prior to the 7000 series are no longer supported by the 3d drivers.

your going to have to get a new card.

---

### Post by Ghostnik11 on 2009-12-18
I finally got it to work after all this time.  What I did was just download the live cd of ubuntu 5.1 then load the cd in live mode.  Then I copied the x-org settings which actually had the correct settings for my video card, to a flash drive.  Then I went booted up my ubuntu 8.04 and copied and pasted the x-org settings that I got from Ubuntu 5.1 to my x-org settings in ubuntu 8.04, which erased all of my x-org settings in ubuntu 8.04.  Then I restarted the computer and finaly got more resolution than my previous 800 x 600.  Thanks for all that helped.

---

