---
title: "9.04 boots to half black and half pretty colors"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Maxepr on 2009-04-27
I think this one is my fault......I'm sure it is. I had everything fine until I tried to add the UFW to the start up list. (not in terminal) Now when it boots up, The top of the screen is black and the bottom is a wonderful display of pretty colors. It looks nice but hardly useful. I tried the recovery mode but I am not sure what to do in there. I tried different settings but have been unsuccessful. Here is are the main parts on my system:

AMD 64 3400 CPU
1 gig ram
ATI mobility radeon 9700 video card

Maxepr:confused:

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-04-27
Delete it from the startup list?

---

### Post by wwtza on 2009-04-27
Hi, there;
I am having a similar problem, which began yesterday when I upgraded to 9.04 from 8.10 over the internet. I have been using Ubuntu for a few years now and this has never happened before. 

8.10 told me about the availability of 9.04 and I just let it upgrade as asked. The problem started at the next reboot. I had a black screen at the first reboot. I immediately thought about graphics card incompatibility. This made me try it again and again until I called a friend of mine who is an IT. He ended up changing the graphics card after a few tests only to get that upper half of the screen in black and the lower half with a large variety of colours. I then downloaded a 9.04 ISO and rebooted from there just to check whether what I had on 8.10 was still there and it still is. Luckily!!

Now! Can anyone tell me what to do in this case so I can repair the installation, if it is faulty, or reverse it to 8.10? 
I can't think of carrying out a fresh installation of Ubuntu 9.04 over what's already there and lose everything by doing so.

Hope someone knows how to help out.

Thank you, guys!

---

### Post by kibster on 2009-04-27
Huh.. Mine does the same thing but a little different.. I had 8.04 and then did an upgrade as someone else mentioned...I just let do its thing. Then on reboot...The screen goes total black when booting into the operating system holds for second while the operating system is loading then goes to the desktop...AND when I shut down I get multiple beebs. Like when you are booting up and have a video problem memory problem but only when it shuts down...everything is running ok...well it seems to.

Russ

---

### Post by Maxepr on 2009-04-27
> **Legace said:**
> Delete it from the startup list?
How do I delete it from the "startup applications" list when it won't boot up so I can delete it. If I could boot computer then I wouldn't need help...????

---

### Post by kibster on 2009-04-27
you cant boot into the operating system ?

if you cant   ...   hit the escape button while you are booting...tell us what you get.  go no futher,.  just tell us what you see and get back to us.  I;m not even sure what  to do at that point will have to do some research. 

Russ

---

### Post by Maxepr on 2009-04-27
I got tired of wrestling with it so I did a clean (re)install of the operating system. Problem solved. It is probably overkill but it takes a lot less time to simply reinstall than to go through the forums for 3 days. If it crashes one more time, I'm going back to 8.10. I never had a single problem with it. Thanks, everone.

Maxepr

---

### Post by kibster on 2009-04-27
Sorry max your having the problem... I didnt have problems with 8.04 either and now have 9.04 and having a little bit of kinks to work out.
I am learning about the firewall.. linux is not as fireproof as they say it is.

---

