---
title: "11.04 - How to change ALL shortcut icons' size"
date: 2011-08-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ahalin on 2011-08-03
Ok, I have read the 5, 10, 12 things to do after installing 11.04! I have installed Compiz Config Settings Manager and have played with the Launcher Icon Size slider. 

That works well with "the Launcher" on the left but has no effect on the icons in the Shortcuts menu that appears when you hit the "Super" key. These are now so huge they run off the left of the screen (see attached screen capture). There is nothing obviously different from Compiz in the gconf Configuration Editor either.

When you go into one of the sub-menus (e.g. More Apps) the icons are fine and fit to screen.

PS, I like slightly bigger fonts and icons by default in everything and achieve this through a smaller Monitor resolution. 

:confused:

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-08-03
> **ahalin said:**
> 
PS, I like slightly bigger fonts and icons by default in everything and achieve this through a smaller Monitor resolution. 

Why not change the font size rather than running at the wrong resolution? You've paid for the pixels, you might as well use them.

---

### Post by ahalin on 2011-08-04
Thanks!

I'm only running 1024x768!

I'll give it a go but from memory that still leaves some things quite small, or requiring individual tweaks in packages such as Nautilus.

Looking at the feedback, I am not the only one who si a little frustrated with the lack of flexibility in this new launcher system. Linux is supposed to be about choice and "hackability"!

---

