---
title: "Error: Could not start printer but printer prints anyway"
date: 2014-04-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by col48 on 2014-04-17
Just the last two or three weeks, _*sometimes*_ a request to print from LibreOffice immediately throws up an error message (this may be a slight paraphrase)

Could not start printer
Please check your printer configuration

In the second or so it takes to read this, the printer shows its response on its own small screen and proceeds to print normally.

Just about all my printing is from LibreOffice (now v4.2.3.3, 64-bit).
The printer is a Canon MG4250 accessed via a wireless router.  None of the hardware has been changed in the last 6 months, and (apart from keeping the software up to date via Update Manager) I have not installed new software either.

This happens more often with the first print of a session, but not always.  If I am printing several things in quick succession, it only happens with the first print (if at all).

This is annoying rather than a show-stopper, but I would like to know what is going on and whether there is a risk-free way of only getting this message when action is needed.

System info: Precise 64-bit
Kernel Linux 3.2.0-60-generic

---

### Post by mholmes on 2014-05-21
I have exactly the same issue since upgrading from 12.04 to 14.04. System:

System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 5/21/2014 8:22:06 AM
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 14.04 (trusty) release.
	GNOME: 3.8.4 (Ubuntu 2014-03-17)
	Kernel version: 3.13.0-24-generic (#47-Ubuntu SMP Fri May 2 23:30:00 UTC 2014)
	GCC: 4.8 (x86_64-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: 1.15.1 (16 April 2014  01:36:29PM) (16 April 2014  01:36:29PM)
	Hostname: spud-2012
	Uptime: 0 days 0 h 33 min

CPU INFORMATION
	GenuineIntel, Intel(R) Core(TM) i3-2120 CPU @ 3.30GHz
	Number of CPUs: 4
	CPU clock currently at 1600.000 MHz with 3072 KB cache
	Numbering: family(6) model(42) stepping(7)
	Bogomips: 6585.19
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe syscall nx rdtscp lm constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts rep_good nopl xtopology nonstop_tsc aperfmperf eagerfpu pni pclmulqdq dtes64 monitor ds_cpl vmx est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm pcid sse4_1 sse4_2 popcnt tsc_deadline_timer xsave avx lahf_lm arat epb xsaveopt pln pts dtherm tpr_shadow vnmi flexpriority ept vpid

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 15965 MB
	Total swap: 16298 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  OCZ-VERTEX3      
	SCSI device -  scsi2
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  ST3000DM001-9YN1 
	SCSI device -  scsi3
		Vendor:  HL-DT-ST 
		Model:  BD-RE  BH12LS38  

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family DRAM Controller (rev 09)
	PCI bridge(s)
		Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev b5) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 7 (rev b5) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 8 (rev b5) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev a5) (prog-if 01 [Subtractive decode])
	ISA bridge
		Intel Corporation Z68 Express Chipset Family LPC Controller (rev 05)
		Subsystem: Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd Device 5001

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
		Subsystem: Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd Device d000

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 05)
		Subsystem: Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd Device a002

NETWORK
	Ethernet controller
		Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168/8411 PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet Controller (rev 06)
		Subsystem: Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd Motherboard

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-05-21
There are log files that you can check in /var/log/cups.  Perhaps the printer is going to sleep and it takes a few seconds to wake.  Try pressing a front panel button on the printer to wake it, then try printing and see if you get error messages in LO.  This of course, is to narrow down the issue.  It is not a fix.

If this is the case--error pop-ups only when the printer is asleep, but it works normally when awake--then you could create a work-around by sending a pre-printing wakeup script each time the printer is called.  A bug should be filed somewhere as it seems at least 2 people have this problem.

Sometimes it helps to delete a printer and reinstall it (just like in Windows) whenever there is an upgrade to the kernel.

---

