---
title: "18.04 (Bionic Beaver) Known bugs and work-arounds"
date: 2018-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2018-04-29
Bionic Beaver (18.04) was released Thursday April 26 2018. Please post your tips and work-a-rounds here. Please do not post problems or ask for help in this thread.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2018-04-29
[Thunar incorrectly thinks USB hard disk hasn't finished ejecting]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/thunar/+bug/1762595").

Workaround: In the Thunar sidebar, instead of ejecting, right-click the partition > Unmount.  Repeat for all mounted partitions.  When all partitions are unmounted, use gnome-disks to power off the USB hard disk.

---

### Post by edwisosa on 2018-04-30
In Spanish version, if I install a Snap from the software center, the system duplicates the personals folders, Documents, music, pictures, public, videos they should be just spanish folders, its everything ok until install a snap, then it creates a english version of all those folders and resides both of them simultaneously

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-04-30
[COLOR=#0000cd]**SMB / Samba - Netbios - Network Browsing is Broken.**[/COLOR]

I am talking about Nautilus > Other Locations > Windows Network. You will either get a **[COLOR=#0000cd]Folder is Empty[/COLOR]** error message or just an empty page. Oh and 18.04 no longer installs an smb.conf file either which is important because the work around requires one.

So to restore it to how it was before:
```
sudo apt install smbclient
```
Then edit /etc/samba/smb.conf and right under the **[COLOR=#0000cd]workgroup = WORKGROUP[/COLOR]** line add this one:
```
client max protocol = NT1
```
***Important note***: This happened because Samba changed the highest smb dialect to SMB3 so  that the client can access a server that disabled SMB1.

** If you set it back to NT1 you will be able to see all the servers but you will not be able to connect to any that disabled SMB1. You can use a cifs mount which works independent of how the smb client works.

** If you leave it with the new default of SMB3 you will not be able to discover the servers. You can still connect to the server by name but you have to know it's  name and you must connect to to it explicitly by that name .. as in ...  smb://hostname or use Connect to Server in Nautilus.

[COLOR=#0000cd]**There is some good news**[/COLOR]: None of this affects any Operating System that enables multicast registration ( or "publishing" ) of their Samba  / SMB services. 

Ubuntu will be able to see any other macOS or Linux box  via Nautilus > Other Locations - Not under Windows Network since  this method has nothing to do with Windows - as long as they enabled multicast registration. 

macOS does this by default. Ubuntu 18.04 enables this feature the instant you install the samba ( server ) package. For all those Linux boxes out there that have not implemented it like Ubuntu 16.04 you can always add your own registration:

Create a file at /etc/avahi/services/samba.service with this content on all your non-18.04 linux boxes:
```
<?xml version="1.0" standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE service-group SYSTEM "avahi-service.dtd">
<service-group>
   <name replace-wildcards="yes">SMB %h</name> ## Display Name
   <service>
       <type>_smb._tcp</type>
       <port>445</port>
   </service>
</service-group> 


```[COLOR=#0000cd]
This will "publish" your samba server to the rest of the network - but it's only discoverable to other Linux boxes or MacBooks.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by riverfr0zen on 2018-05-02
Fix for Slack & Dropbox AppIndicators not showing up upon upgrade from 17.10:

Install this gnome extension: [https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/495/topicons/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/495/topicons/)

1. Slack (installed via snap): Installing the above extension should cause the app indicator to show up again

2. Dropbox (this I already had installed I believe from the download on dropbox.com):

2.a. Open ~/.config/autostart/dropbox.desktop for editing
2.a.1. Modify the line *Exec=dropbox start -i* as follows: ```
Exec=dbus-launch dropbox start -i
```
2.b Open ./applications/dropbox.desktop
2.b.1 Modify the line *Exec=dropbox start -i* to ```
Exec=dbus-launch dropbox start -i
```
2.c. Save the files, stop dropbox and try to launch it again.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2018-05-04
Install either **intel-microcode** or **amd64-microcode** depending on which CPU you have.

You may have problems with suspend if you don't. I did and just happened to catch a message about it when I went to tty2 and back to tty1 after suspend.

See this link in the Detailed Description for some info about what microcode is: [https://downloadcenter.intel.com/download/14303](https://downloadcenter.intel.com/download/14303)

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2018-05-04
If you have USB connected mouse and keyboard and they will not wake the computer from suspend see this [[COLOR=blue]post[/COLOR]]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2388336&p=13758866#post13758866") for the fix.

It helped me. Prior to doing this I ended up having to press reset after suspend.

---

### Post by jsgoncalves on 2018-05-05
**_Acer aspire One (ZG5) won't boot to login screen after upgrade to 18.04._**

After a couple of tries and different things I was able to boot in recovery-mode/network
and switched from gdm3 to lightdm as an experiment. That solved the problem as a workaround for me.

So from recovery mode

switch from gdm3 to lightdm. (workaround)
sudo apt-get install lightdm
sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm (select lightdm and reboot)

Not sure why gdm3 is locking up AAO
lightdm is my current workaround.

Hope this post helps some other AAO pcs out there.

---

### Post by jeo7 on 2018-05-05
Bug: Totem hesitates and jerks while playing videos not in full screen mode under Gnome and Gnome derivatives (such as Ubuntu desktop).

Workarounds (your choice): 

1. Use a different video player such as MPV or VLC.
2. This is a Gnome bug. Use a different desktop environment such as KDE or Cinnamon.
3. Use Gnome on Wayland. The bug appears only in Gnome on Xorg.

---

### Post by conwood on 2018-08-07
If cannot login to real console mode(ctrl-alt-f1), screen tells "^[a" when press "a", login to x, and try pressing combined keys, go back to console, and it would be fine.

---

### Post by johnzbesko on 2018-09-07
After trying various settings and still not being able to connect to Samba shares, I discovered the following settings also had to be included in smb.conf

lanman auth = yes
ntlm auth = yes

---

