---
title: "11.10 multiarch dependency hell?"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SomeoneWhoIsntMe on 2011-10-15
I'd like to run PCSX2, a Playstation 2 Emulator on Ubuntu 11.10. I tried installing it on 11.04 a month or so ago, but when I saw that multiarch was going to be implemented in 11.10, I decided to just wait for it to be able to install smoothly.

To install PCSX2, you need the following i386 libs:

libglew1.5:i386
libglew1.5-dev:i386
nvidia-cg-toolkit:i386

Unfortunately, most of the Ubuntu desktop environment, Unity, and X depends on dependencies of those i386 libs. Installing the two libglew packages broke unity, and nVidia Cg just plain wouldn't install. 

I guess I'm just wondering, am I missing something obvious here? Is there a way to install i386 libs alongside their amd64 counterparts?

If I have to run an i386 X server to run an i386 ubuntu-desktop to run an i386 unity to run an i386 mesa to run two packages I need to be i386 just to play videogames for a few hours every other day, why am I bothering with amd64 at all? It sounds like a back-asswards way of getting i386 packages running the old fashioned way: just install an i386 distribution in the first place.

---

### Post by Pablo89 on 2011-10-22
Same here. Trying to avoid 32-bit chroot is a great idea, but seemingly... it doesn't work as expected. Aptitude is completely broken with multiarch enabled. Many :i386 packages make apt-get (and Synaptic) suggest removing the most of the system, while Software Center simply rejects to install them. Is anyone able to install libbz2-1.0:i386, or some of the packages suggested by SomeoneWhoIsntMe?

The idea of multiarch looks great, and I would love to see it working. If that is a bug which means that multiarch is at such an early state of development, then why is it enabled by default in 11.10?! Or, if the problem is some misconfiguration of my system, then how to fix it?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by lotsofish on 2011-10-26
I've got the same problem. I am trying to get a 32bit app compiled on my 64bit 11.10 system, so I need to install some :i386 dependencies. When trying to install libpopt-0:i386, it wanted to remove about 40 packages, including most of the unity packages.

This is on a clean install of 11.10, not an upgrade.



** I don't have all the sources for the app, or I would just compile it 64bit. The company has provided some of the code as precompiled files.

---

### Post by samigina on 2011-10-28
I have the same problem... I cant understand how the multiarch support works..

---

### Post by tonysathre on 2011-10-28
> **SomeoneWhoIsntMe said:**
> I'd like to run PCSX2, a Playstation 2 Emulator on Ubuntu 11.10. I tried installing it on 11.04 a month or so ago, but when I saw that multiarch was going to be implemented in 11.10, I decided to just wait for it to be able to install smoothly.

To install PCSX2, you need the following i386 libs:

libglew1.5:i386
libglew1.5-dev:i386
nvidia-cg-toolkit:i386

Unfortunately, most of the Ubuntu desktop environment, Unity, and X depends on dependencies of those i386 libs. Installing the two libglew packages broke unity, and nVidia Cg just plain wouldn't install. 

I guess I'm just wondering, am I missing something obvious here? Is there a way to install i386 libs alongside their amd64 counterparts?

If I have to run an i386 X server to run an i386 ubuntu-desktop to run an i386 unity to run an i386 mesa to run two packages I need to be i386 just to play videogames for a few hours every other day, why am I bothering with amd64 at all? It sounds like a back-asswards way of getting i386 packages running the old fashioned way: just install an i386 distribution in the first place.

If you have less than 4GB of RAM than yes, you should have installed the i386 version.

---

### Post by Pablo89 on 2011-11-04
> If you have less than 4GB of RAM than yes, you should have installed the i386 version.

And if I've had 4GB of RAM or more, would the broken package manager start working? I don't think it's related to the topic.

By the way, I don't see why using 64-bit system should be related to the amount of RAM. First, PAE-enabled i386 would handle larger amounts of RAM, so RAM is not a reason for using 64-bit system. The true reason for using 64-bit system is performance, related to wider registers and data buses.

If 64-bit Ubuntu is not stable at all, then it should be just said officially. It's a dirty trick to say that it is stable, but to tell users not to use it for some completely unrelated reasons, like the amount of RAM.

---

### Post by gregory_38 on 2011-11-04
Hello,

Some PCSX2 dependency can not be installed in the same time on Ubuntu 11.10

libwx* -> there is a patch on debian BTS
libglew -> use libglew1.6 in universe. Hum, well I think my ppa use 1.5. It might need a rebuild of pcsx2... Why the hell, Ubuntu is not aligned on Debian... Anyway I might create a patch for libglew1.5.
libportaudio -> there is a patch on debian BTS
nvidia-cg-toolkit -> need to be done.

Multiarch implementation is young. More stuff will be fixed on Ubuntu 12.04.

---

