---
title: "[13.04] No sound option displayed for HDMI (AMD RADEON HD 7450)"
date: 2013-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bryce_Crist on 2013-08-07
Hello, I am having an issue with my HDMI output. I have a JVC TV connected to my desktop through an HDMI cable. The video works fine, however, the sound is not being displayed via sound settings. I downloaded PulseAudio, to see if I could get something done with that, but I was just met with more confusion. As you can see from the screenshot below, pulse audio recognizes the HDMI option, but the system audio settings do not. I have installed the ALSA drivers and updated my kernal to [3.9?], but the sound still does not work. 


[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/TnnIsne.png[/IMG]



My PC Specs: 
HP tower model: h8-1210t 
RAM/Memory: 6Gib (5951Mib) 
Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-2320 CPU @ 3.00GHz 
Video Card: Radeon HD 7450
Current installed Ubuntu version: 13.04 
Hard Drive Space: 1Tib (921Gib)

Thanks to everyone who can help.

---

### Post by Bryce_Crist on 2013-08-07
Bump for help?

---

### Post by Bryce_Crist on 2013-08-07
I've been to about 30 other threads, and I've tried just about every solution. I've updated my kernel, I've installed (and re-installed) the ALSA sound drivers, and so much more. I have no idea what else to do..

---

### Post by Mikog on 2013-08-08
Try selecting the Radeon on the output device tab.

---

### Post by grizzlywilde on 2013-10-13
Did you ever find out how to fix it? I have the exact same problem now and am trying to solve it.

---

### Post by hunterkasy on 2013-10-13
I had the same problem and this is what I did:



    I got it working I did this:

    === Workaround 1 ===

    Edit /etc/default/grub and change this line:

    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

    to this line

    GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash radeon.audio=1"

    Now run "sudo update-grub", then reboot your computer.

    then I installed AMD Catalyst Proprietary Display Driver - Linux x86 & Linux x86_64 now I have video and sound

---

### Post by baddison1 on 2013-10-24
Having this same problem with my Lenove X301 laptop.   shows video thru hdmi, but no sound.  And hdmi sound card not listed either.  don't have radeon, just on-board Intel card.  will this grub change make any difference on my intel machine.  I have searched all the solutions, have installed the alsa updates, have upgraded and downgraded kernels, but nothing makes the hdmi even show up in the sound controls.  any other advice is quite welcomed.

*EDIT: added the grub line, rebooted.  No change.  Guess it is truly specifically for the amd card and not the intel.....

---

