---
title: "8.04 Live CD with Linksys WUSB54G"
date: 2008-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dm6257 on 2008-05-03
I could not get Ubuntu 8.04 to connect with my Linksys WUSB54G wireless adapter.  This is the only network connection I have.  Is there a work around?

Thanks,
Dale

---

### Post by Helios38 on 2008-05-03
hmm. i have that adapter too. and it works perfectly fine out of the box on mine.



you may have to use ndiswrapper.


[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper)

---

### Post by dm6257 on 2008-05-03
Thanks.  I see the wireless networks so I guess the interface is working.  But it won't connect.  It works with Vista so I know it is functioning.

---

### Post by a4su_skyhawk on 2008-05-04
> **Helios38 said:**
> hmm. i have that adapter too. and it works perfectly fine out of the box on mine.



you may have to use ndiswrapper.


[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Driver/Ndiswrapper)

I have the same problem with threadstarter.
Which version of the WUSB54G are you using?
Thank you.

---

### Post by dm6257 on 2008-05-04
It is brand new.  Version 4.

---

### Post by a4su_skyhawk on 2008-05-07
> **dm6257 said:**
> It is brand new.  Version 4.
Using the same version as you.
Not sure about the live CD, I installed Ubuntu onto my hard-disk and managed to get it to work using ndiswrapper.
I suspected the rt2500usb driver that come with Ubuntu has problem.

Hope this help.

---

### Post by dm6257 on 2008-05-07
From all the posts on the rt2500usb it appear's it's problematic. When I get a few hours I might try the driver from serial monkey.

---

### Post by laoshi on 2008-05-07
If your wireless card is recognized but you don't get a connection the issue could be the format of the encryption key. I had a lot of trouble of this kind, which was solved with help from chile555 in this thread:
[http://sudan.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=780273&page=2](http://sudan.ubuntuforums.com/showthread.php?t=780273&page=2)

---

### Post by dm6257 on 2008-05-07
I used the command line instructions found in this forum and was able to make a connection.  But the speed was very slow and the signal strength was low.  Under Vista the signal strength is good and speed is high.  Again these are similiar to observations others have made.  For the time being I am not using any encryption.  I will add that later.

---

