---
title: "11.04 error during software updates"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tablechairwall on 2011-10-13
Hi Everyone,

I am looking for some help as I've encountered a problem with installing any new software updates.  I'm running 11.04 and get this warning of a software package failure from the update manager. 

installArchives() failed: Setting up install-info (4.13a.dfsg.1-6ubuntu3) ...
/etc/environment: line 2: PKG_CONFIG_PATH: command not found
dpkg: error processing install-info (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 127
Errors were encountered while processing:
 install-info
Setting up install-info (4.13a.dfsg.1-6ubuntu3) ...
/etc/environment: line 2: PKG_CONFIG_PATH: command not found
dpkg: error processing install-info (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 127


My etc/environment reads:

PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games"
  PKG_CONFIG_PATH = $ PKG_CONFIG_PATH: / usr / local / lib / pkgconfig 

I did the requisite looking around online and found similar problems like [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1450277](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1450277) but couldn't find my identical problem or translate this info into a solution.  I assume there is some problem with my PKG_CONFIG_PATH but I could be wrong.

Thank you to anyone who can help me solve this problem.

---

### Post by SuaSwe on 2011-10-13
Hello tablechairwall!

Is that etc/environment output exactly as you have it on your machine? Pretty sure it shouldn't have spaces in it as the shell won't be able to read the path like that. Try changing it to:

```

PATH="/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games"
PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig"

```

Let us know how it goes! :)

---

### Post by SuaSwe on 2011-10-13
Found a post on another forum for a similar issue: [http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-software-2/pkg_config_path-230545/#post2803319](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-software-2/pkg_config_path-230545/#post2803319)

Suggestion (which helped others) went like:

> 
For example if you are using bash:
PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH

You can find default path like this:
locate pkg-config
and it usually is :
/usr/bin/pkg-config

You should knw where the new libraries are (=where to set PKG_CONFIG_PATH). This can give hins:
locate pkgconfig

---

### Post by therule on 2011-10-13
Something like that is happen to me, when I´m updating the sistem (I have the 11.04 too)in some point of the downoad of package, it stops of downloading and doesn´t load more, anyone know why happen this?

---

### Post by tablechairwall on 2011-10-14
Hi SuaSwe, thanks for the suggestions and quick response.  I went ahead and changed etc/environment as you suggest, removing the spaces "PKG_CONFIG_PATH="/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig."  Unfortunately, I still get the same warning/problem on trying to update any software packages. 

As to your follow up post, this is the output of locate pkg-config:

/etc/bash_completion.d/pkg-config
/usr/bin/pkg-config
/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config
/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config/mlib.ini
/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.6/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config/npymath.ini
/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.7/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config
/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.7/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config/mlib.ini
/usr/lib/pymodules/python2.7/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config/npymath.ini
/usr/share/doc/pkg-config
/usr/share/doc/pkg-config/AUTHORS
/usr/share/doc/pkg-config/NEWS.gz
/usr/share/doc/pkg-config/README
/usr/share/doc/pkg-config/changelog.Debian.gz
/usr/share/doc/pkg-config/copyright
/usr/share/doc/pkg-config/pkg-config-guide.html
/usr/share/man/man1/pkg-config.1.gz
/usr/share/pyshared/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config
/usr/share/pyshared/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config/mlib.ini
/usr/share/pyshared/numpy/core/lib/npy-pkg-config/npymath.ini
/var/lib/dpkg/info/pkg-config.list
/var/lib/dpkg/info/pkg-config.md5sums


Additionally, entering 
 "PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig
 export PKG_CONFIG_PATH" into the terminal did not result in any improvement in the ability to update/install software.

Any suggestions on how to proceed?

---

### Post by SuaSwe on 2011-10-14
Hey tablechairwall,

I think you need to set your path to what the "locate" command points to. So on my machine for example, I get the following:

```

suave@suaserve:~$ locate pkgconfig
_/usr/lib/pkgconfig_
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gio-2.0.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gio-unix-2.0.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/glib-2.0.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gmodule-2.0.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gmodule-export-2.0.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gmodule-no-export-2.0.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gnome-mount.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gnutls-extra.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gnutls.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gobject-2.0.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/gthread-2.0.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/libtasn1.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/pm-utils.pc
/usr/lib/pkgconfig/pygtksourceview-2.0.pc
/usr/share/pkgconfig
/usr/share/gtksourceview-2.0/language-specs/pkgconfig.lang
/usr/share/pkgconfig/gnome-mime-data-2.0.pc
/usr/share/pkgconfig/iso-codes.pc
/usr/share/pkgconfig/shared-mime-info.pc

```

So in order to set my path to point to the correct location, I would need to do the following to set the path for pkgconfig:

me@server:~$ PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/lib/pkgconfig ; export PKG_CONFIG_PATH

This is now saved in my env:

me@server:~$ env | grep PKG
PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/lib/pkgconfig

Try that maybe?

---

### Post by tablechairwall on 2011-10-14
Ok I tried following your suggestion and got;

ben@ben-desktop:~$ PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/bin/pkg-config ; export PKG_CONFIG_PATH
ben@ben-desktop:~$ env | grep PKG
PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/bin/pkg-config


However, the problem remains.  I should note that on initial start of the update manager, after a restart, it gives the warning, "sorry, the package "install-info 4.13a.dfsg.1-6ubuntu3" failed to install or upgrade" So is the problem perhaps in install-info 4.13a.dfsg.1-6ubuntu3 and not the PKG_CONFIG_PATH?

---

