---
title: "(12.04) Freeze on shutdown among other issues"
date: 2012-06-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quiane on 2012-06-26
Hey,

I've had a few weird issues come up wtih my fresh install of 12.04.  The sleep function is set for 5 min..but works very inconsistently.  Sometimes i'll come back and the computer will be on, but not responsive (the monitors are asleep, but wake when i touch the mouse, but they stay blank..dual monitor using catalyst most up to date propriety driver).  Other times the computer responds the way it's suppose to and will sleep and wake for a few cycles with no problems. Other times it just doesn't go to sleep.  Transmission is not set to disable sleep when active... I dont really know how to frame that problem to start looking for logs or for google help..so any suggestions with that would be great! 

Second, and possibly easier (i did see some threads about this, but none of them really applied as they were refering to 11.04).. my computer hangs on shutdown.  DOesn't matter if it's shutdown or restart, all i get is the splash screen with the ubuntu logo.  I have changed the grub so that it should be showing me where the problem is (removed the "quiet" from the appropriate line in /etc/default/grub)...

I have looked through the logs but can't see anything preventing the shutdown..but maybe i'm not looking through the right logs.

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by GreatDanton on 2012-06-26
Here is something you should try in order to shutdown your OS in proper way. I made that and it worked for me.

 Here are step by step commands.


```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```
Navigate to the line that looks like,

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""
```
And put acpi=force in there.


```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi=force"
```
Save and close that file.

 Now update grub by running,
```
sudo update-grub
```
And restart to see if it worked.

---

### Post by Quiane on 2012-06-26
i tried that, it did not work. 

Thanks tho!

---

### Post by dcsoldschool53 on 2012-06-26
Try this in a terminal```
sudo shutdown -P now
```Tell us what happens.

---

