---
title: "19.10 Stuck in Login loop - amdgpu error"
date: 2020-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by trent65 on 2020-04-26
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]After upgrading to 19.10, I can't log in. I'm stuck in a login loop. I searched around and found some suggestions to change permissions on the .Xauthority file, but I don't have a .Xauthority file in my home directory.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]I then tried running startx from the terminal and got:[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
amdgpu: module ABI major version (23) doesn't match the server's version (24)

```[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]I tried upgrading amdgpu, but it seems to be up to date. Any ideas?[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2020-04-27
Can you upgrade to Focal (Ubuntu 20.04). Focal is LTS whereas 19.10 is not. You can do this in root recovery mode or (easier) use the install CD to upgrade

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2020-04-27
Make sure you're not booting into an old kernel leftover from 19.04
```
uname -a
```

---

### Post by trent65 on 2020-04-27
@Yellow Pasque, hey there. Running uname -a:

```
Linux trent-desktop 5.3.0-46-generic #38-Ubuntu SMP Fri Mar 27 17:37:05 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x06_64 GNU/Linux
```

@ActionParsnip
Yes, I considered upgrading, but running do-release-upgrade -c returns "No new release found." I've never upgraded without that manager, so you are suggesting a live image on a usb stick and installing 20.04 that way?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-27
Installing 20.04 from scratch is surely a better and faster approach.

---

### Post by trent65 on 2020-04-27
Would that involve removing 19.10 from my system somehow?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-27
> **trent65 said:**
> Would that involve removing 19.10 from my system somehow?

"From scratch" means a fresh installation, obviously. A fresh installation is almost always preferable.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2020-04-27
Kernel version looks correct. The next obvious question: Did you install amdgpu-pro or some other version of the open-source amdgpu driver provided by AMD, instead of using the version that came with Ubuntu?
The error looks exactly like this one:
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1086182/upgrade-to-ubuntu-18-10-login-loop-xorg-crash](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1086182/upgrade-to-ubuntu-18-10-login-loop-xorg-crash)
And, as you can see from their log, they installed something into /opt and it interfered with their new Ubuntu version.
```
[   426.519] (II) Loading /opt/amdgpu/lib/xorg/modules/drivers/amdgpu_drv.so
[   426.519] (II) Module amdgpu: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[   426.519]    compiled for 1.19.6, module version = 18.0.99
[   426.519]    Module class: X.Org Video Driver
[   426.519]    ABI class: X.Org Video Driver, version 23.0
[   426.519] (EE) amdgpu: module ABI major version (23) doesn't match the server's version (24)
[   426.519] (EE) Failed to load module "amdgpu" (module requirement mismatch, 0)
```

> Installing 20.04 from scratch is surely a better and faster approach.
I'm not so sure about that. The answer may be as simple as dropping to terminal and running:
```
amdgpu-pro-uninstall
```
Also, some users aren't very good at organizing and backing things up..

---

### Post by trent65 on 2020-04-27
@Yellow Pasque that is indeed my exact issue. I appreciate your finding that post. 

I checked the logs at ~/.local/share/xorg/Xorg.0.log and found that exact error.

I wish that I could remember if I installed amdgpu-pro from the amd website. Following this guide for uninstalling the drivers yielded no results:
[https://www.amd.com/en/support/kb/faq/gpu-635](https://www.amd.com/en/support/kb/faq/gpu-635)

Running ```
dpkg -l amdgpu-pro
``` yielded: "no packages found matching amdgpu-pro"

However, running ```
dpkg -l
``` does list out a few packages that could be relevant: amdpgu, amdgpu-core, amdgpu-dkms, amdgpu-lib32, amdgpu-pro-pin. The versions for all of those is 18.50-725072

I can at least do some research on those packages prior to going through the fresh install process.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2020-04-27
It looks like you installed the open source 'amdgpu' driver from the 18.50 Pro driver package. In that case, the uninstall command would be:
```
amdgpu-uninstall
```

Then, the version of amdpgu included with Ubuntu should be automatically used.

---

### Post by trent65 on 2020-04-27
That's it! I'm able to log in now. Thank you so much!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2020-04-27
Good, please mark the thread solved.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2020-04-27
You're welcome. Also, now would be a good time for you to consider upgrading to 20.04 LTS, since you don't seem to like distribution upgrades. That way, you won't be running an EOL release come August.
> **mörgæs said:**
> Good, please mark the thread solved.

+1

---

