---
title: "3d effects not working right"
date: 2008-07-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JanErikHiim on 2008-07-31
Sorry for my bad english...

Just made a new install of ubuntu.
Earlier I had Hardy and 3d desktop effects worked well, but now its useless.

Here is my Xorg:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"no"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection



And here is my videocard

00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 03)

Laptop HP Compac NC 6220  2ghz cpu   1,5 gb ram


Hope someone can help

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-31
Hi and  You may look at the FAQ's and try compiz-check. Also how much memory is in the system?

Moved :)

---

### Post by JanErikHiim on 2008-07-31
This is not just with compiz, its in google earth as well.
And running 3d test in glxgears I only get this result:

440 frames in 5.0 seconds = 87.220 FPS

So something is wrong with the driver or Xorg.
So this is not the desktop effects problem, its a driver issue I guess.

Mabe its moved to the wrong plase???:-)

---

