---
title: "Changing Permissions"
date: 2007-10-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jon1001 on 2007-10-27
I dual boot ubuntu and xp so instead of having 2 music folders, I mounted the xp partition in ubuntu and used the My Music folder as the library in rhythmbox.  The problem is, rhythmbox changes the mp3 tags and then they don't work on xp properly.  I decided to change the permissions for the folder to read-only so that rhythmbox wouldn't change them, but I can't get it to work.  I haven't had much experience on linux yet (especially commands) so it might have an easy fix.  Please help.

---

### Post by Bliepo32 on 2007-10-27
If you say that "but I can't get it to work", do you mean that the command doesn't work? Then try:
```

sudo chown [yourusername] [the folder]
sudo chmod 400 [the folder]

```

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-10-27
I think the problem is that fat32 and ntfs partitions don't support linux file permissions, so changing the permissions of the mount directory has no effect. The settings for read and write are set when you mount the partition. So lets start with how you are mounting the windows partition - are you mounting it manually or does it mount via fstab when you boot the pc? Please post the contents of your /etc/fstab file or post the command you use to manually mount it.

Here's a pretty good reference too:

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

---

### Post by Jon1001 on 2007-10-27
Thanks for replies.  Yes, it was the commands that didn't work and I did it the same way that you suggested.  qpieus must be right that it is having no effect.  I used NTFS Configuration Tool (in the repository) to set it up.  It mounts when I boot.  Here is the fstab file:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=6d15655c-42b5-4e21-b51c-7daf789c2359 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=66ec9f6a-7a65-4afe-80cf-465a490c949e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-10-27
Add ro to the line in fstab for your windows partition```
/dev/sda1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,ro,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0
```
This should allow read only access to that partition for all users. Make a backup of your fstab before editing, so if this doesn't work you can go back to the original.
I'm not sure if the "defaults" will conflict with the added ro option. I found plenty of fstab exampls that had both "defaults" and "ro" in them, so it'll probably be fine.

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-10-27
hmmm, I just re-read your first post. Making your entire windows partition may not be what you wanted. Unfortunately, you cannot make a specific folder within an ntfs partition read only while the rest of the drive is read/write. At least that is my understanding. Perhaps someone else can join in and confirm or deny this.

---

### Post by Jon1001 on 2007-10-28
Thanks but I want to be able to save work to the Windows partition as well so I can't do that.  The only other way I can think to do this is to make a new partition just for music.  It would have to be in NTFS for windows but then I could mount the partition as read only in ubuntu.  Although it is probably easier just to have 2 copies of the music.  But if I do make a read only partition, will it definitely make it impossible for rhythmbox to change the track information?

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-10-28
Yeah, I was going to suggest a separate partition just for your music. I would assume that rythmbox could not write to the read only partition, but I do not use rythmbox or have any read only partitions, so I don't have any direct experience with this setup. You could mount your windows partition read only and try it out....

---

### Post by Jon1001 on 2007-10-28
I have duplicated all of my music into ubuntu for now as I am quite busy at the moment so it may take a few weeks before I get anything like that sorted.  Just checking, what is the maximum number of partitions you can have on a disc.  I think it's 4.  Thanks for your help, I'll try and remember to report back for anyone else that has this problem!

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-10-28
A hard drive can have a maximum of four PRIMARY partitions. But a primary partition can be subdivided into a number of what are called logical partitions, so in fact you can create more than 4 partitions on any one hard drive.

[http://www.faqs.org/docs/linux_admin/x1139.html](http://www.faqs.org/docs/linux_admin/x1139.html)

---

### Post by Jon1001 on 2007-10-28
Ok, thanks.  I only have 3 at the moment so that should be fine.

---

### Post by Jon1001 on 2007-10-30
Ok, I have made the new partition and edited the fstab file so that it mounts as read only and I think it has fixed the problem.  It was very easy to do (with GParted) and I had no problems setting it up in xp or ubuntu.  Thanks very much for your help.

---

### Post by qpieus on 2007-11-02
Fantastic, nice job. And you're very welcome...

---

