---
title: "10.04.1 LTS Upgrade using Update Manager"
date: 2010-09-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Alex53 on 2010-09-30
Ok, so I have an intranet web server running mainly apache, php tomcat 6 and mysql, on Ubuntu 8.04.4 LTS.

While doing security updates using the update manager I see that the new distribution release 10.04.1 LTS is available and there's an upgrade button.

How painless is this upgrade? How risky to my current applications? 

As far as the importance of the server, its production but not quite 'public facing', but internal use.

Would you?

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-09-30
I would test the upgrade extensively on a non-production machine first. Upgrades are never 100% risk free and many users on the forums have reported bugs with 10.04 (and with the upgrade process itself). At the bare minimum, you'll want to make a full backup "clone" so you can restore your working system easily if necessary.

Ubuntu Server 8.04 will be supported with security updates through April 2013 so there is no rush to upgrade if you are happy with your current system.

---

### Post by garner_nc on 2010-09-30
Save yourself a potential headache. Do a clean install from CD with the new 10.04. 

I upgraded my machine from 9.10 to 10.04 via upgrade and had problems. I'll never upgrade again. I know it'll be a little work getting your server reconfigured but if the upgrade kills your current machine you'll be doing the work anyway.

All the Best,
D. White

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-09-30
[QUOTE=Alex53]...
Would you?[/QUOTE]
If I did I would first read both the release notes and upgrade notes carefully and I would probably follow the procedure detailed on the following site because upgrading a server is a bit different than upgrading a desktop.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LucidUpgrades)

---

