---
title: "9.10:  Unable to access shared files... &quot;Failed to Mount Windows Share&quot;"
date: 2009-12-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bradsthompson on 2009-12-01
I am using Samba to share media files over my home network.  When I had 9.04, everything ran smoothly.  After the upgrade, I've had trouble gaining access to these files from my other computers which run various versions of Windows.

What I've done so far (all logged in as root):

Installed Samba, added the folders I wanted to share.

Tried to set permissions by right clicking on folder, Properties, Permissions tab.  When I try to select different permissions for either user, group, or others, the combo box quickly reverts back to the previous selection.

Removed Samba and all its components.  Reinstalled Samba... same problems.

Checked smb.conf file and saw permissions were set correctly there.

Tried to access shared files locally by doing the following -- Places, Network, [computer-name], Public (name of folder).. and I get the error message "Failed to Mount Windows Share". 

What in the world am I missing?  This was so easy before...

forgive me, i'm still new to ubuntu.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2009-12-01
Hallo.
The Guru lives here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169149](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1169149)

It is a monster thread, but I think if you are going to find answers anywhere, it will be there. ;)

good luck
Michael

---

### Post by bradsthompson on 2009-12-01
Thanks for the suggestion but when I first switched to Ubuntu I visited that thread to get file sharing working and never could.  I stumbled on the Samba GUI and everything just magically worked.  That's why I'm mystified why all of a sudden things aren't working now.  Nothing materially changed on my system (except for maybe some updates) and now I can't even access the shares locally.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-12-01
Could always be a problem server side.

---

### Post by bradsthompson on 2009-12-02
OK.  I went back and determined that I do not have a firewall enabled.  I even tried to follow the CIFS tutorial but was unable to get the shares mounted.  I'm very frustrated at this point because everything was working fine and for no reason it just stopped.  Does anyone have any other ideas as to why Samba will not mount my windows share?  I have tons of files on this machine that I cannot access at the moment.

---

### Post by bradsthompson on 2009-12-03
I have now uninstalled and completely removed ufw from the machine so there is no way that this is a factor.  I have never had firestarter.

---

### Post by bradsthompson on 2009-12-03
bump... no ideas?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-12-03
You need to check the permissions of the shares.

The user accessing the shares need permission on the server, so the share can not be owned by root for example.

The user also needs permission in the samba config

You add the user as a samba user.

If you have done all the, check the samba error log for clues.

---

### Post by bradsthompson on 2009-12-04
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> You need to check the permissions of the shares.
 
The user accessing the shares need permission on the server, so the share can not be owned by root for example.
 
The user also needs permission in the samba config
 
You add the user as a samba user.
 
If you have done all the, check the samba error log for clues.
 
In Samba, I have checked the radio button to "allow access to everyone".  As I stated before, when I try to change permissions by right clicking the folder, clicking Properties, then Permissions tab, I try to select different permissions for either user, group, or others, the combo box quickly reverts back to the previous selection.

---

### Post by mmediaman on 2009-12-25
This is why this platform will NEVER make it in the mainstream.  It is way too difficult to do the simplest thing!!  How basic is this task and yet I can find 1/2 dozen different answers about how to APPROACH the problem, with no answer being anything a non-geek can follow.  Why can't everything just be handled in a GUI.   Too many replies cite the use of  terminal commands and editing settings files.

I am yet to find a simple writing where it clearly gives SIMPLE steps to share a folder on a USB Drive which the file system was prepared by Windows as FAT32.

I don't want to hear about why the FS should be EXT2/3 or NTFS or whatever.  FAT32 is common as hell and for whatever reason a person has that FS, I cannot find a simple explaination of how to share a folder on a USB drive of said type.

As the other poster here said, I can share folders on the internal drive of the Ubuntu box just fine, but following the same steps to share a folder on the attached USB drive, results in a No Permission type message from Windows clients and the Group, and Others parameters in the Ubuntu Permissions tab for the folder cannot be set.

Can somebody PLEASE break it down?/  :confused:

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2009-12-25
bradsthompson,

I'm getting a little lost here. Are you using nautilus-share or classic samba?

Open **Terminal**
Type **net usershare info**
Type **sudo net usershare info**
Type **testparm -s**

This will tell us what you are sharing and what method you are using to share it. As someone stated above sharing a directory involves samba authentication AND linux file permissions. Two steps are needed.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2009-12-25
mmediaman,

> I am yet to find a simple writing where it clearly gives SIMPLE steps to share a folder on a USB Drive which the file system was prepared by Windows as FAT32.(1) Use nautilus-share to share the folder on the USB drive

**Nautilus > Right Click on the folder you want to share > Sharing Options > Check all the boxes**

(2) You got me on the rest of this. It's all in the Terminal, sorry

Open **Terminal**
Type **gksu gedit /etc/samba/smb.conf**

Add a line to the [global] section of smb.conf that looks like this:

**force user = morbius1**
*[COLOR=Blue]Change morbius1 to your own Ubuntu login user name[/COLOR]*

Save the file and exit gedit.
Back in the Terminal:
Type  [B]sudo service samba restart

[/B]Wait a few minutes ( not kidding ) and see if you have read / write access from the remote machine.

If you're using classic samba the "force user" parameter in [global] is probably not the way to go but for nautilus-share it solves a lot of issues.

---

### Post by Harag on 2010-01-05
Force user did the trick for me. 

Thanx

---

### Post by clentwhite on 2010-01-10
Make sure you have correct permissions set on the entire drive.  This fixed it for me.  Navigate to /media and find the drive with the share folder and set permissions there as well as for the share folder.

---

### Post by ghostborg on 2010-05-02
I was having this problem since 9.10 and upgraded to 10.04  keeping my old home directory and the problem followed. I compared my smb.conf file to a fresh install on another computer and did not see any differences in the enabled features. I added the force user = username as above and now my Windows machines can access the folders now. The Windows machines could see my Ubuntu user name and the public shared folder but got an error when trying to open the public folder.

Thanks!!!

---

### Post by terrydiehard on 2010-05-20
Morbius1 was right and absolutely brilliant. This user posted a reply on Dec. 25th 2009. And it definitely works. I've tried it. Please check his reply which was posted on the date mentioned above

What I did in summary was:

added a line to the [global] section of smb.conf that looks like this:

**force user = gavaskar**
[I][COLOR=Blue]
You will have to change gavaskar to your own Ubuntu login user name[/COLOR][/I]

Now I have read/write access.

Here's what my actual smb.conf looks like in the beginning. Notice the line "force user = gavaskar"
_________________________________________________________________
[global]
   force user = gavaskar
   usershare owner only = False

## Browsing/Identification ###

# Change this to the workgroup/NT-domain name your Samba server will part of
   workgroup = Sastudents

# server string is the equivalent of the NT Description field
   server string = %h server (Samba, Ubuntu)

# Windows Internet Name Serving Support Section:
# WINS Support - Tells the NMBD component of Samba to enable its WINS Server
#  wins support = no
______________________________________________________________

---

