---
title: "[SOLVED] no window decorations in compiz after upgrading to Ibex"
date: 2008-11-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DouglasAWh on 2008-11-15
I found [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=742181](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=742181) but it's in the archives so can't post there.  

```

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Proview Radius-73"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "Quadro4 750 XGL"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


```

My window decoration plugin in compiz was set to gtk-window-decorator.  I've played with that setting some, but I've gotten nothing to work thus far. Help is appreciated!

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-15
Maybe you could try compiz instead of GTK. Or Emerald, if you have it installed.

---

### Post by DouglasAWh on 2008-11-15
> **eternalnewbee said:**
> Maybe you could try compiz instead of GTK. Or Emerald, if you have it installed.

I do have emerald installed, but 

```

emerald --replace

```

doesn't seem to do anything.  Doing 

```

compiz --replace

```

is what makes the window decoration disappear.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-15
> 
Code:

compiz --replace

is what makes the window decoration disappear.
You can fix that by enabling the Window Decoration in CompizConfig Manager.

---

### Post by DouglasAWh on 2008-11-15
> **eternalnewbee said:**
> You can fix that by enabling the Window Decoration in CompizConfig Manager.

You didn't read my first post very carefully:

> My window decoration plugin in compiz was set to gtk-window-decorator. 

Now, it could very well be that I need to change a setting in that plugin. right now it is set to emerald --replace.  Thanks for the continued help!

---

### Post by DouglasAWh on 2008-11-16
I had to edit my X per the instructions at:

[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/10/17/ubuntu-desktop-effects-fixing-the-missing-titlebar/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2007/10/17/ubuntu-desktop-effects-fixing-the-missing-titlebar/)

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-16
> You didn't read my first post very carefully:
I didn't realize that enabling the Window Decoration would have no effect if it is set to GTK.
Glad you've solved your problem though.

---

### Post by DouglasAWh on 2008-11-16
> **eternalnewbee said:**
> I didn't realize that enabling the Window Decoration would have no effect if it is set to GTK.
Glad you've solved your problem though.

I don't think that was the issue.  I think I could change it to GTK now and it work.  I think the problem was the xorg, though I can't really claim to understand what goes on with X.

---

### Post by cbonar on 2008-11-16
Hello

I'm in the case where the windows decorations disappear occasionally (approximately one time out of two I log in).

Continuing the original thread, I would like to add that I noticed every time the problem happens, there are two *compiz-decorator* processes running :

> 0  1000  6479  6472  20   0   1844   488 wait   Ss   ?          0:00 /bin/sh -c /usr/bin/compiz-decorator --replace
0  1000  6480  6479  20   0   1844   520 wait   S    ?          0:00 /bin/sh /usr/bin/compiz-decorator --replace   


(1000 is my user's id)

Two different commands means to me that they were started from two different sources...
It may be the cause of the problem : a conflict between two instances ?
Does anybody knows how it could happen that two instances could be launched ?


After killing all of them and starting a ***compiz-decorator --replace***, only one remains (of course) and everything works.

---

### Post by cbonar on 2009-11-14
For the posterity, I have to add that the problem could be "solved" in my case by deactivating KDE session restoration, in System Settings > Advanced > Session Manager > On Login = Start with an empty session.

It's been working for several months now.

*If* I remember well it is solved with KDE 4...

---

### Post by myoldhouse on 2010-01-11
My problems with lost window decorations occurred under both compiz and metacity and would seem to happen randomly, but once lost, nothing would bring the window decorations back except using "metacity --replace" as one of the startup scripts.

I finally had enough and decided to track this thing down and I found that sitting in my home directory under ./local/share/applications there were two files that were the root cause. One was named compiz.desktop and the other was named metacity.desktop. Deleting, renaming or moving those two files restores normal window decorations under both compiz and metacity.

I don't know what generates those files and puts them there but I know what to do to get window decorations back if they go missing - I look for those two files in ./local/share/applications and I delete them and I'm good until the next time they appear, which could be in days, weeks or months.

Your mileage may vary, but it won't hurt to try this if nothing else works for you in restoring your window decorations under either compiz or metacity.

PS My system is Ubuntu 9.10 AMD64 but I had this problem under 9.04 AMD64 as well and the fix worked for both of them.

---

### Post by cbonar on 2010-01-11
Hello myoldhouse

That looks quite interesting, could you please post the content of those two files when you'll have them back ? Maybe some parameter inside would give us a precious clue...

(by the way I confirm my previous post : it is solved with karmic).

---

### Post by myoldhouse on 2010-01-11
Hey cbonar,

Your wish is my command ;)

Here are the two .desktop file contents.

First, here is metacity.desktop

> [Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Exec=metacity
Hidden=true
Name=Metacity
NoDisplay=true
Type=Application
X-GNOME-Autostart-Notify=true
X-GNOME-Autostart-Phase=WindowManager
X-GNOME-Bugzilla-Bugzilla=GNOME
X-GNOME-Bugzilla-Component=general
X-GNOME-Bugzilla-Product=metacity
X-GNOME-Provides=windowmanager
X-GNOME-WMName=Metacity
X-GNOME-WMSettingsModule=metacity
X-GnomeWMSettingsLibrary=metacity
X-Ubuntu-Gettext-Domain=metacity

And here is compiz.desktop

> [Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Exec=compiz
Hidden=true
Name=Compiz
NoDisplay=true
Type=Application
X-GNOME-Autostart-Phase=WindowManager
X-GNOME-Provides=windowmanager
X-GNOME-WMName=compiz
X-GNOME-WMSettingsModule=metacity
X-GnomeWMSettingsLibrary=compiz
Name[en_CA]=compiz.dt

They look pretty innocuous don't they but they sure raise hell with window decorations.

---

### Post by Ingenity on 2011-04-23
My $CAD 0.02:

I Compiz (Gnome w/KDE app support) on Maverick.
Window controls and frames were lost after applying a vigorous update.

Launching /usr/share/applications/compiz.desktop restored my windows to health and hasn't appeared since. Seemed to be too much going on on the restore to process the configuration properly.:D

---

