---
title: "ATI driver did work and now it doesn't"
date: 2010-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Boulemans on 2010-02-14
I just tried a fresh install of ubuntu 9.04 and a new attempt for 3D acceleration with my ATI Radeon Xpress 1150 - AND IT WORKED! thanx to this guide: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver)

glxinfo | grep "direct rendering"
 was giving a YES and playonlinux in the terminal didn't give the usual "you don't seem to have any 3D acceleration" message.

 For a few minutes, my happiness was greater then ever (ehum) I installed Jedi Knight II, Jedi Outcast, and it worked. Only I couldn't adjust the screen size or the gamma (and a few other minor video settings). 

After some install/reinstall of playonlinux and wine I found out something: 3D acceleration didn't work any longer. glxinfo | grep "direct rendering"
 is now giving 

direct rendering: No (LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT set)

and I get the error in Playonlinux that i don't have any 3D acceleration.

I want to know how this could happen? My xorg didn't change at all. But for completeness, here it is:

[code]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
	Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Option 		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes	"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection
        
Section "Extensions"
        Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

[\code]

basic question: how do I make my laptop smile again with 3D acceleration?

---

### Post by Boulemans on 2010-02-14
solved: I changed the visual effects to "Extra". after changing it back to "none", the 3D acceleration was activated again. Can't i learn ubuntu to use the same driver for its effects?

---

