---
title: "A Question About Editing fstab"
date: 2010-06-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nosophorus on 2010-06-28
Hi!

I was having some problems when it came to mounting my Windows XP partition. It did not mount correctly or it simply did not mount at all.

I looked for help at the Ubuntu forums and did everything people said there. Despite that, my problems persisted.

Therefore, I tried to edit my fstab file:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=d0cc13a7-032a-44e4-b790-8491fbf43bb7 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=9eb6a626-ad0a-4137-8074-13eaacb6bdb8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=pt_BR.UTF-8 0 0

Then, I uninstalled ntfs-config and ntfs-3g (in order to remove the settings I made while using them), reinstalling only ntfs-3g. Finally, I put a "#" (comment) on the line concerning the Windows XP partition (the last one):

#/dev/sda1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=pt_BR.UTF-8 0 0

After that, my Windows partition is mounting and umounting with no problems! No requests for sudo privileges are made.

**My question is: Would be there any problems for doing that?**

Thanks in advance!

Nosophorus

---

### Post by Linuxforall on 2010-06-28
Easiest way, sudo apt-get install pysdm select your drive/partition and set to defaults.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-06-28
> **Linuxforall said:**
> Easiest way, sudo apt-get install pysdm select your drive/partition and set to defaults.

Telling people who obviously have had trouble using command line stuff to use more command line things is not "easy".

Just tell them to **install** the pysdm package and they will learn to use the GUI package managers and not muck around in areas they do not understand.

---

### Post by Nosophorus on 2010-06-28
Hi!

Thank you very much for the replies!

I think I'll not install any new software because Ubuntu is mounting and umounting my Windows XP partition. I only worry about any problems I may have taking into account what I aforementioned on my previous post.

By the way, thank you so much for your replies! If someone could answer me my earlier question, I would be very grateful.

Thanks!

Nosophorus

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-06-28
> **Nosophorus said:**
> Hi!

Thank you very much for the replies!

I think I'll not install any new software because Ubuntu is mounting and umounting my Windows XP partition. I only worry about any problems I may have taking into account what I aforementioned on my previous post.

By the way, thank you so much for your replies! If someone could answer me my earlier question, I would be very grateful.

Thanks!

Nosophorus

It's obviously mounting fine now from Places I guess. So job done. Leave the hash or delete the whole line.

---

### Post by Nosophorus on 2010-06-28
Hi!

Thank you very much for your useful reply, pal!

I'll do what you said.

Thanks!

Nosophorus

---

