---
title: "Reading a binary file or dat file in /var/log, its identity changes"
date: 2016-06-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by expatver on 2016-06-25
Did a search here and have found  nothing  that directly applies.....soooooooo

How does one read a non system generated binary file or .dat file  from /var/log.....specifically  the files I would like to read are  generated by Eset AV. It gets even more interesting in this way...... I attempted to view the files with System Log viewer (gnome-system-log-pkexec) run as root. When I opened the window to open other files, these same files had the suffix .dat....... where looking at the different files under Nautilus, they had under file type, binary. System log would not open them. 

I ve been having some interesting problems with Eset recently, among them the fact that it took down the entire system earlier when attempting to launch a support request from within the program to address  errors in the log file when attempting scheduled updates. It is the paid version and yes I run AV on Linux. Its Eset NOD 32 for Linux version 4.0.81.0 for anyone curious. I just would like an idea of why  the AV program took the system down to the point where I couldnt get to a CLI from the keyboard and had to do  a hardware reset. So for that I need to see the log files and well..... apparently I am too stupid to figure it out and...yeah  systemd I know (lets not go there LOL)

Thanks
Expat

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-06-25
Seeing as the AV prgram is closed source, there isn't much we can do for you. Contact the manufacturer.

---

### Post by expatver on 2016-06-25
Thanks, already  have but  wanted to take a shot at reading the logs.....


Regards

---

### Post by yancek on 2016-06-26
The link below has some general information on .dat files and trying to open them.  From what I understand, they are windows files so you might have better luck trying to open them booting into windows. 

[http://pcsupport.about.com/od/fileextensions/f/dat-file.htm](http://pcsupport.about.com/od/fileextensions/f/dat-file.htm)

---

### Post by expatver on 2016-06-26
Yancek

Thanks for the interest and suggestion.  Booting into Windows isnt an option, not on any of my machines. 



Regards

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-06-26
A .dat file can be anything. It's a generic extension most commonly used for data belonging to a specific application, whatever that application is. .dat files rarely make sense to other applications. As this one seems to be binary, it's difficult to say what to do with it. Which of course doesn't make sense in a log directory.

One thing you can try is using **file /path/to/file**. Maybe this .dat file is just something simple in disguise. Some compressed format maybe? Although I'd expect Nautulus smart enough to find that out for you.

---

### Post by expatver on 2016-06-26
Impavidus

Thanks. Nautilus thought  it binary. Log Viewer says .dat.  Bless doesnt know what it is.  The unfortunate choice I suppose of putting a closed source program on the machine. 

I ve already contacted Eset but am curious about what series of faults caused it to take the entire OS down. If I had to guess I would say some sort of proprietary  code.  And I agree completely- in a log directory no matter what the app or its origin, things should be easily readable. 

Regards

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-06-26
I tried this, since it says it is binary.
wxHexEditor ~/.bash_history
And it seems to show all the commands in a not easy to read format.
But if you want history in readable format you just list it with history command

Not sure if then your file will have any readable text or not?

Tried this file shown as binary, but it showed all zeros.

wxHexEditor /var/log/faillog

---

### Post by expatver on 2016-06-26
Hi Oldfred

Interesting.  I will give this a shot later today and report back. Many  thanks for the reply and interest

Regards
Expat

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2016-06-26
If you just want to look at bytes, there are any number of hexedit type programs that will do that - for example, taking the wtmp log file (another - non-proprietary - log that's in binary format)

```

xxd /var/log/wtmp | less

```

which will display any human-readable characters alongside the raw bytes

If you believe there may be human-readable strings in the file, you could also try

```

strings /var/log/logfile.dat | less

```

However, I think it's ambitious to believe that doing so is going to magically help you determine the cause of your system crash - usually, reverse engineering someone else's binary data format is a slooow, painstaking business - it's unlikely that a fully-formed human readable log file is going to simply fall out.

---

### Post by expatver on 2016-06-26
Steeldriver

Thanks for the great recommendations. I also agree with your points about  trying to determine the cause of the crash.... I am curious about why though because one program taking an entire system down is not that common. 

Again many thanks for the interest and suggestions

Later today I am going to try  to parse this file and will try to post back what I find.

Regards
Expat

---

### Post by expatver on 2016-06-27
As an update  tried various things and was unable to read the data in the file.  Currently in a customer service request with Eset.  I am going to mark this resolved.

Regards and many thanks for all of the suggestions.

---

