---
title: ".ini, .cfg equivalent files in Linux for configuring programs?"
date: 2010-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xenphor on 2010-12-10
In windows there are .ini or perhaps .cfg, .conf files that allow a user to configure the default options of a program. These are mainly used in command line only programs but are also frequently used in GUI applications as well. Many times a program will even let you specify different config files in the command line for easy switching between default configurations. 

Seeing as how the vast majority of Linux programs are command line only or have very limited GUI options, being able to configure these like in windows is quite difficult. Many times I find myself simply adding a string of command line options which is horribly ineffecient. Do there exist configuration files (like .ini) for Linux programs so I can easily manipulate options? I know there is the /etc directory but that does not seem to cover all the programs in the system and even then, not all programs will install stuff in the same directories. 

I know there is also a thing called aliases which I believe alter the default operation of a command in the terminal. I'm not sure if this is exactly what I'm looking for but could be useful for some commands. What would be the best way of configuring these?

---

### Post by Wtower on 2010-12-10
It depends on the program I guess. I believe the vast majority of programs use conf files in /etc directory. If you use a command in terminal frequently with several options involved, you can put it in a shell script file and avoid having to remember any option or looking back in history.

A basic script file can be like:
```

#!/bin/sh
commandyourun --options --options2 --toomanyoptions

```

Don't forget to set the executable bit assuming you named your script as file.sh
```
chmod +x file.sh
```

Then you execute as
```
./file.sh
```

I hope this helps.

Regards

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2010-12-10
I am aware of a few programs, such as wine and virtualbox, that store some configuration files in hidden folders in your home directory.
To see these files, go to your home folder in your file manager and press <Ctrl> + H

---

### Post by Xenphor on 2010-12-10
Yes I guess I should've mentioned that I do use scripts for command line programs but using those can be cumbersome. It would be easier if there was a global configuration file for a given program and then simply use the command line options to override any defaults that I want to override; or, as I said before, use the command line options to specify another configuration file with a whole different list of defaults. Using a configuration file in conjunction with command line options would be the best scenario as far as I can tell. 

There just doesn't really seem to be a standard for most programs in Linux. In windows its easy because all the files for a given program will be in the same directory so you know where everything is that is needed to configure. Also the fact that files have extensions that determine what a file can do helps in knowing its function. If I see a .ini file in a windows folder I know what its function is, but in Linux it could be just another file. There is also the problem that in Linux everything goes into separate directories so you'll never be sure what could be used to configure.

---

### Post by Wtower on 2010-12-10
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> I am aware of a few programs, such as wine and virtualbox, that store some configuration files in hidden folders in your home directory.
To see these files, go to your home folder in your file manager and press <Ctrl> + H

Yes, also true. Forgot about it.

> **Xenphor said:**
> It  would be easier if there was a global configuration file for a given  program and then simply use the command line options to override any  defaults that I want to override;

Well, than you can do things with scripts a bit more complicated. Such as to create a conf file with the appropriate variables like:

```

#!/bin/bash
# Comment for option 1
OPTION1=this

```

Assuming that filename is file.conf, you then can load into your script that or in fact whichever conf file you wish as:
```

#!/bin/bash
source ./$1
commandyourun --$OPTION1

```

And then you can call your script as:
```
./file.sh file.conf
```

Be extremely careful if a third user provides a conf file as anything harmful can pass through.

Regards

---

### Post by Xenphor on 2010-12-10
Hm that's interesting but I'm a little confused on this part:

```
#!/bin/bash
source ./$1
commandyourun --$OPTION1
```What exactly does ./$1 refer to? I think the $ is a variable but I'm not sure. The second line I'm not so sure about either. Do I enter the name of the program then at "commandyourun"? And I guess --$OPTION1 is referring to the previous .conf file option? So any string of options that I entered into that .conf file will be enabled using --$OPTION1?

But this does seem to be more what I'm looking for, especially for command line programs.

---

### Post by Wtower on 2010-12-10
With ./ you execute a file within the current directory. This is because unlike windows, the current directory is not in the path variable setting. In fact, there is a great security risk involved otherwise. So if you have a script.sh in your home dir, you can execute it as ./script.sh .

$1 is the first parameter provided in that script. So ./$1 executes the first parameter. The source part passes the variables executed after that conf script exits. You realise that if you provide another executable file instead of a conf file, it would execute it as well. This is why there must be some security checks within the main script, such as that the file exists, or even that it may include some kind of comment-signature.

With commandyourun I meant the program that you wish to execute frequently. $OPTION1 refers to the variable OPTION1 provided in the conf file. You can provide more options with more variables of course.

I hope my explanations are clear enough, please don't hesitate to ask further.

Regards

---

### Post by Xenphor on 2010-12-10
That does help thank you. Is it normal then to have just a ton of scripts for everything you want to do? I was trying to think if there was an easier way to do things but I would always just make a new script instead.

---

### Post by Wtower on 2010-12-10
I'm really glad. Well, how you organize it is something at your discretion. I quite fancy bash and all the great possibilities it allows you to make your system behave as you would like, so I spend some time to organize my scripts for anything that will be reused. This is an indulgement that a Windows administrator cannot have in that extend, imo.

Regards

---

