---
title: "Universal Access Preferences Taskbar Icon"
date: 2008-11-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gorlist on 2008-11-26
Good morning, upgraded both of my Ubuntu desktops yesterday to 8.10 from 8.04. Everything has gone fine accept for this computer ive got a new "Universal Access Preferences" icon on the taskbar, which from some reason can't be removed. If I right click no menu appears to lock or delete?

The other PC is fine and doesn't have it.. 

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Malfet on 2008-11-27
I had exactly the same problem.
Solution is very simple. Open gnome-keyboard-properties, select tab Accessibility and deselect "Accessibility features can be toggled with keyboard shortcuts".

---

### Post by vahnx on 2008-11-27
Sweet thanks! Just started having this issue today aswell.

---

### Post by Gorlist on 2008-11-28
Excellent, easy - thanks!

---

### Post by hikeb on 2008-12-03
Thank you! I looked all over the place.

---

### Post by athost on 2009-01-28
Thank you, indeed. Very annoying feature.

---

### Post by nomentero on 2009-10-04
Solution is very simple. Open gnome-keyboard-properties, select tab Accessibility and deselect "Accessibility features can be toggled with keyboard shortcuts".

---

### Post by duanedesign on 2009-10-12
Here is one i cant figure out. I had two of those icons pop up in my panel. I was able to get rid of one using Preferences > Keyboard > Accesibility > Accesibility feature can be toggled with keyboard shortcut. But i can not seem to get rid of the second one. Any ideas?

---

### Post by Slats Grobnik on 2009-10-13
@duanedesign: Did you uncheck the "Virtual Assistance" checkbox under *System* -> *Preferences* -> *Startup Applications*?

---

### Post by falconindy on 2009-10-25
> **duanedesign said:**
> Here is one i cant figure out. I had two of those icons pop up in my panel. I was able to get rid of one using Preferences > Keyboard > Accesibility > Accesibility feature can be toggled with keyboard shortcut. But i can not seem to get rid of the second one. Any ideas?
Does it go away if you reboot? I'd guess at some point you used an application with gksudo and the icon is being generated by another user.

---

### Post by Tich666 on 2009-11-05
> **nomentero said:**
> Solution is very simple. Open gnome-keyboard-properties, select tab Accessibility and deselect "Accessibility features can be toggled with keyboard shortcuts".

Fixed it for me, thanks. :D

---

### Post by nortexoid on 2010-01-04
Thanks! Had the same problem occur out of nowhere in Karmic.

---

### Post by zennix on 2010-01-30
Thanks dear :)

---

### Post by Dragonlaw on 2010-03-27
Thanks!

---

### Post by Toost Inc. on 2010-04-13
Much appreciated

---

### Post by phaidros on 2010-05-02
that helped!

both icons disappeared !!

:popcorn:

---

### Post by bookcrazy on 2010-09-10
It worked for me too! Thanks a million!

---

### Post by Mirgeee on 2010-09-19
Thanks, too!!

---

### Post by chovynz on 2011-01-26
> **Slats Grobnik said:**
> @duanedesign: Did you uncheck the "Virtual Assistance" checkbox under *System* -> *Preferences* -> *Startup Applications*?

THIS!!!
Thanks lots. My kids have been driving me nuts with constantly fiddling with the universal access.

---

