---
title: "How to install Blender 2.72 on Xubuntu 14.04"
date: 2014-10-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tristan_Williams on 2014-10-03
I just downloaded the tarball from the following link:
[https://download.blender.org/release/Blender2.72/blender-2.72-linux-glibc211-x86_64.tar.bz2](https://download.blender.org/release/Blender2.72/blender-2.72-linux-glibc211-x86_64.tar.bz2)

Everything required to run Blender is in that tarball, but I want to actually install the Blender 2.72 executable on my Xubuntu system.
I already have 2.71, but I am going to remove it if I can install 2.71

How can I do that?

---

### Post by ortermagic on 2014-10-04
Hit Tristan, I managed to install blender a couple of years ago by using this video tutorial maybe it will help

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xO4BwkOHdkU](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xO4BwkOHdkU)

The link will put you on the road  several other vide tuts

good luck

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-10-04
Hi.

You shouldn't need to be messing around with tarballs at all, actually. I managed to install it on my Ubuntu system several months ago simply by typing in the terminal:-

```
sudo apt-get install blender
```

It should tell you if you've got the most up-to-date version, and if you haven't, it will ask if you want to install it.....and should take care of any necessary dependencies. 

Mind you, that all depends on whether 2.72 is in the repositories, of course. I know 2.71 is.

Hope that helps.

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-10-04
Hi, again. 

AFAIK, the easiest way to remove your previous version of Blender would simply be:-

```
sudo apt-get uninstall blender
```

which should remove the package.

Then, if you're using a tarball, extract it to the directory of your choice with Archive Manager, and having done that, locate it, and simply double-click on it (or single-click if you have that option enabled in Nautilus).....and the Software Centre should install it for you.

You could, of course, remove it using Synaptic. Or simply remove the 2.71 version via the Software Centre.

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-10-04
> **Mike_Walsh said:**
> ...
```
sudo apt-get uninstall blender
```
...
I've been using *sudo apt-get purge package_name* or *sudo apt-get remove package_name*.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-10-04
Hi vasa.

Quite right! Should have been 

```
sudo apt-get remove blender
```

Brain's not in gear this morning! Sorry about that, Tristan; this IS the the command you should use.

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by Tristan_Williams on 2014-10-04
I'm not asking how to remove Blender 2.71. That's simple.

What I'm asking is how to take the files from the Blender 2.72 tarball, and place them so that they are installed on the system, and executable by running the command 'blender'

I noticed someone suggested using 'sudo apt-get install blender', but that leaves me with 2.69, not 2.72. Neither 2.71 or 2.72 are in the repositories yet

---

### Post by tommywright on 2014-10-18
These are the kinds of things that keep people in Windows.  I need 2.72 but I want the .blend files to open when I double click them.  I also like to see the thumbnail generated by the install but I can only get 2.71 on ubuntu 14.04 so I'm stuck having to load files blind from the interface.  I'm totally shocked that there is no simple way to update the install with the files from the archive that you get from Blender.org.

---

### Post by dorusto on 2015-01-04
> **tommywright said:**
> These are the kinds of things that keep people in Windows.  I need 2.72 but I want the .blend files to open when I double click them.  I also like to see the thumbnail generated by the install but I can only get 2.71 on ubuntu 14.04 so I'm stuck having to load files blind from the interface.  I'm totally shocked that there is no simple way to update the install with the files from the archive that you get from Blender.org.

You can follow the instruction from [here]("http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2014/10/install-the-latest-blender-release-ubuntu/"). There is youtube video tutorial also. For me was verry helpfull. Good luck :)

---

