---
title: "11.10 Unity can I change Launcher's location?"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-16
Hi,

Can I change Launcher's location? I want it to be on the bottom. I am setting Ubuntu Unity plugin -> Reveal Mode to bottom but it has no effect.

THX!

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-10-16
Sorry, but no. Unity's launcher panel is currently fixed to the left side of the desktop. 

The reveal mode option only adjust which edge you need to move the mouse cursor to unhide the launcher.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-10-16
Just to add - I believe the intention will be to have just 1 reveal option, the left side extending from bottom left corner to the top l. corner
In other words it won't be 3 separate area's anymore.
At least that's what i've taken from the current open bug - though the report does ..,  well,  here it is
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ayatana-design/+bug/839677](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ayatana-design/+bug/839677)

---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-16
So it' s for reveal only.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by christopher.wortman on 2011-10-16
yeah the developers decided that you dont matter. Ubuntu is trying to be apple or microsoft giving us 2 themes and locking the interface down. They even got rid of the tray icons because they deemed them unnecessary. Applications break because they decided to not include gtk2 support like the rest of the world. Thanks Ubuntu devs for being selfish. :p

---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-16
:) true, true

Looks like they want the interface to be fixed and recognizable (just like Win or OS X) but I would definitely prefer customization. 

Gnome 3 also went the dark way. People at Red Hat are probably scratching their heads right now what sort of DE they are going to put on their Linux which mostly used on servers :)

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-10-16
> **christopher.wortman said:**
> yeah the developers decided that you dont matter. Ubuntu is trying to be apple or microsoft giving us 2 themes and locking the interface down. They even got rid of the tray icons because they deemed them unnecessary. Applications break because they decided to not include gtk2 support like the rest of the world. Thanks Ubuntu devs for being selfish. :p

You are free to install as many GTK3 themes as you wish, and to use any desktop environment or window manager you want. GTK2 is supported as well.

If you are mad about missing customizeability, your blame is pointed in wrong direction. Most of the decisions come from Gnome developers (and keep in mind that Gnome 3 is brand new, it took almost 10 years for the old Gnome 2 to gain all the features it had in the end.)

If you rant, at least rant about the right things, and to right people. :D (and if possible in the right place as well, this is still a support forum, there's the Testimonials section for discussing this kind of things)

Staying with Gnome 2 wouldn't make any sense, it would only give you an desktop environmnt with no support, no bug or security fixes, and not being able to use new versions of your software as developers have already moved to using GTK3 and new features and services form Gnome 3.Even the distros that now are still using Gnome 2 will have to move to Gnome 3 eventually.

---

### Post by madjr on 2011-10-16
i would expect more customization, but not till 12.10+, as 12.04 will be an LTS and any new feature will be creating bugs, so they want to introduce the less possible.

so for now is on the side, which i gotten used too, and is pretty convenient on my wide screen.

---

