---
title: "need helps renaming partitions"
date: 2010-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by z4520ft on 2010-03-02
hi all, first of all below is my etc/fstab 

[B]# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb6 :
UUID=6a2acd75-fced-4e5e-8d17-e02505e6cc35 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb7 :
UUID=a4067335-169e-4ea8-969b-04d9bf8f76a7 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb5 /media/Boot\040Win\040XP ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb2 /media/Video"Installer ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/Documents"Music"Game ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/7\040Filesystem ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0[/B]

i need to rename my the sda5 and sdb2 drive since every time i tried to launch .exe file under that partitions using Wine, i got "Invalid Name" error notice. so i suppose it's something to do with the drives name, which contain (") since the program works under other partitions but not these two. i've created a new mount point (using sudo mkdir) in /media under the name Documents and mounted the sda5 on it, while deleted the Documents"Music"Game manually using gksudo nautilus. i used this method for the sdb2 too. 

but the problem is every time i reboot, the drives unmounted and not shows up in Computer.  and when i read on the etc/fstab the drive name still not changed. so what i needs are
i)the guide to rename the drives properly, since i can't relabel it even after installing NTFS Configuration Tool
or
ii)other methods for automatically mount drives on boot, since i'm not sure if i done it right. i just started using ubuntu 2 days ago

thanks in advance :KS

---

