---
title: "Ubuntu 8 and KVM Switch"
date: 2008-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GJS on 2008-07-04
I'm using a KVM switch and now that I have upgraded to 8.04 Ubuntu seems to want to auto detect the correct screen resolution every time it starts up.  If the KVM switch is not set to the Ubuntu machine on startup the screen resolution is wrong and can't be changed, requiring a reboot.

Does anyone know how to stop the auto detect or fix the screen resolution in 8.04?

Thanks.

---

### Post by him610 on 2008-07-04
You want to circumvent a feature? Right?

When Linux boots up, you could say it calls the roll of all the connected peripherals. If one of the peripherals (i.e. monitor) isn't there then the system continues and boots as if it truly was not there so the resulting configured screen resolution is for the lowest common denominator which is probably VGA or maybe SVGA which is what you probably consider the wrong resolution. 

I use a KVM switch with three systems (sometimes four) connected to a single monitor, keyboard, and mouse. I have learned through trial and error that when booting a system I should make sure the KVM switch is set to the system being booted to make sure I wind up with the desired screen resolution. This is not a problem.

There probably is some way to circumvent it, but why? Someone probably a lot smarter than either one of us put a lot of thought into the way Linux boots and configures itself when a peripheral is not present.

The good thing about open source software is that if there is a feature that annoys you, you can fix it.

Have fun. Let us know what you work out for yourself.

---

### Post by GJS on 2008-07-05
Thanks for the advice but my KVM switch emulates a monitor, keyboard and mouse for the computers that it is not switched to.  This is primarily to avoid POST errors on BIOS load.  I expect it only emulates a VGA monitor but this has never been a problem in the many years I have used it with multiple Windows OSs and all versions of Ubuntu up till now.

I often use the machine remotely with Wake-On-LAN to power it up and VNC to operate it.  I can't remotely change over the KVM switch.

---

### Post by jaystrum on 2008-08-21
This is the exact same problem I am having with Ubuntu 8.04. Does anyone know if this problem was ever resolved?

---

### Post by Tonguu on 2008-08-22
I just added my new 8.04 machine to my main setup and my kvm must be ultra cheap, because I can only get lowest resolutions, regardless of how the kvm is set during startup. I'm gonna spend today going through the steps outlined in another post: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=679059](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=679059)

---

### Post by Tonguu on 2008-08-22
Hmm....I gotta say I'm more than a little suprised at how convoluted this seemingly basic issue is. Fear of breaking things has caused me to stop what I've been trying to do, and ask for help. Here's what my xorg.conf says:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection


 as you can see, many things are missing from the monitor section. I tried following the steps outlined in the thread I had previously mentioned, but I am not able to switch users. I read in another thread that this means my xorg.conf contains some kind of error. I am now focusing on controlling my breathing, so as to not hulk out and smash things at random.

---

