---
title: "11.10 Dock/Launcher Size"
date: 2012-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-01-28
I am running 11.10 in Virtualbox and trying to reduce the size of the dock/launcher.  Perhaps my expectation is wrong - but I'm hoping to reduce the width of the Dock on the left side of the screen.  I have followed various instructions including these - **[https://help.ubuntu.com/11.04/ubuntu-help/unity-launcher-change-size.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/11.04/ubuntu-help/unity-launcher-change-size.html)** but no matter what I do it makes no difference, I cannot make the launcher/icons smaller or larger.  Should I go to some other instructions other than the url above?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2012-01-28
Are you running a normal Unity session or Unity 2D? The instruction only works for normal Unity... 


(since you are running Ubuntu on a virtual machine, make sure you have installed the virtualbox guest additions to get graphics acceleration working. Without graphics acceleration you'll be stuck in Unity 2D regardless of which Unity session you choose at the login screen)

---

### Post by Double.J on 2012-01-28
It may not be possible in a virtual environment - I tried out wubi and was unable to get ccsm settings to take effect on that... Not strictly a virtual environment, but may be worth considering?

Unfortunately that guide is the way to do it with CCSM. do you have guest additions installed for virtualbox/allowed 3d graphics in the virtual machine settings? The guest only knows about the resources you give it from the host :)

All the best :)

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-01-30
Sorted - thank you for your help.  I changed my Virtualbox (4) display settings to including 2D and 3D graphics (from my host) and I able to see the change.

---

