---
title: "odd nVidia error."
date: 2005-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by guice on 2005-10-16
I'm trying to get the nvidia drivers to work, but for some reason I'm getting a fault error, but no errors within my Xorg log file.

Here's the copy of the error itself:
> Fatal server error:
Caught signal 11.  Server aborting

I've attached a copy of my xorg.conf file and since my log file is too big to upload here, I've uploaded copy to my site: [http://www.gpcentre.net/tmp/Xorg.0.log.txt](http://www.gpcentre.net/tmp/Xorg.0.log.txt)

I'm using 2 6800GT video cards. I do understand at this time only the PCI:1:0:0 works.

I have all the following installed:
```
nvidia-glx
nvidia-kernel-common
nvidia-settings
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.12-9-amd64-k8
linux-image-2.6.12-9-amd64-k8
```

Everything starts up when i use *nv* as the device type, but nothing works (all glx commands give me a seg fault). When I change it to *nvidia*, I get this signal 11 error but no apperent error, that I can see, in the Xorg conf file.

I'm trying to stay away from building a custom kernel using the nVidia released drivers as I did it once before and things got really buggered up when I started mixing the nvidia- packages with the nvidia self compiled kernel.

Any thoughts as to what my problem is? Thanks in advanced.

---

### Post by dmegg on 2005-11-25
I just did an in-place migration from Debian sid to Breezy, and I'm getting the same problem with the nvidia driver (though nv does work for me).  You've probably fixed your problem by now, but were you getting the NVidia splash screen before the signal 11?

---

### Post by Cyborganism on 2005-11-29
I have the same problem. The logs generated by X11 don't seem to say anything particular.

Anyone has a hint about this?

---

### Post by guice on 2005-11-29
Never found a fix. Kubuntu 5.10 came out afterwards with it's rebuilt nvidia drivers. I've rebuilt the system since then and now only run Kubuntu on it. No problems with nvidia now. I'm not using self compiled drivers as I hear 1.767 has issues with the all the latest cards (aside from the 7800 series).

---

### Post by dmegg on 2005-11-29
I managed to solve the error.  Using nvidia-glx-config alone doesn't work -- you also have to comment out the lines in /etc/X11/xorg.conf that load the GLCore and dri modules (nvidia-glx-config should be changed to do that).  For my GeForce2Go, I had to use the nvidia legacy package *and* make sure that I had the nvidia legacy GLX and not the regularly nvidia GLX package installed (not currently enforced by package requirements).

---

### Post by Cyborganism on 2005-12-01
I finally got a display going with the nvidia-glx driver package....

I disabled dri and glx

WTF?? Why the heck do I have to disable glx?!?!?!?!? Doesn't the nvidia-glx package supposed to support it, hence the GLX at the end of the package name?

I followed the help in the ubuntu documentation.. I don't know what could be wrong...

Maybe a script hasn't created the links to the proper modules...?

---

### Post by Cyborganism on 2005-12-01
Well... It seems I still get segmentation faults for no reasons with apps like mplayer...

---

### Post by RednoWCirabrab on 2006-02-06
I have a similar problem, and I can't get X to start unless I comment out the load "glx" line. Has anybody found a fix to this?

when I type startx in the console I can see the following, does this reveal anything?

```
Skipping "/usr/X11R6/lib/modules/libfb.a:fbmmx.o": No symbols found
Symbol __glXgetActiveScreen from module /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/extensions/libdri.a is unresolved!
Symbol __glXgetActiveScreen from module /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/extensions/libdri.a is unresolved!

  *** IF unresolved symbols were reported above, they might not
  *** be the reason for the server aborting.

Fatal server error:
Caught signal 11.  Server aborting

XIO:    fatal IO error 104 (Connection reset by peer) on X server ":0.0"
          after 0 requests (0 known processed) with 0 events remaining.
```

---

### Post by skarg on 2006-02-22
Greetings!

I have found that Gentoo documentation is really relevant and is up to date for hardware and config settings.  See Gentoo Linux nVidia Guide at [http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/nvidia-guide.xml]("http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/nvidia-guide.xml").

If you don't want to go there, here is some of the relevant info:

See the list of cards that are supported under Legacy:

TNT2
TNT2 Pro
TNT2 Ultra
TNT2 Model 64 (M64)
TNT2 Model 64 (M64) Pro
Vanta
Vanta LT
GeForce 256
GeForce DDR
GeForce2 GTS
GeForce2 Pro
GeForce2 Ti
GeForce2 Ultra
GeForce2 MX Integrated graphics
Quadro
Quadro2 Pro
Quadro2 EX

If you own one of these cards, you will have to use the glx legacy driver.

Another issue is what modules to comment out in /etc/X11/xorg.conf - make sure the glx module gets loaded while the dri module doesn't:

Section "Module"
  (...)
  # Load  "dri"
  Load  "glx"
  (...)
EndSection

In section Screen, make sure that either the DefaultDepth directive is set to 16 or 24, or that you only have Display subsections with Depth settings of 16 or 24. Without it, the nvidia-glx extensions will not start.

Another issue that I have seen is using i386 kernel and a non-i386 nvidia module, or something along those lines.

Hope this helps!

Steve
[http://kargs.net/]("http://kargs.net/")

---

