---
title: "8.10 + Gallery2  gallery not found"
date: 2008-12-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sugargenius on 2008-12-14
Installed Gallery2

```
sudo apt-get install gallery2
```

After install I went to http://<ip_addr>/gallery, and got:

```
The requested URL /gallery was not found on this server.
```

Looked in  /var/log/apache2/error.log

```
[Sun Dec 14 05:49:38 2008] [error] [client 192.168.1.138] File does not exist: /var/www/gallery
[Sun Dec 14 05:49:38 2008] [error] [client 192.168.1.138] File does not exist: /var/www/favicon.ico

```

Looked in /var/www

```
rwxr-xr-x  3 root root 4096 2008-12-12 08:55 .
drwxr-xr-x 15 root root 4096 2008-12-12 08:56 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 root root   45 2008-12-12 08:55 index.html
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root 4096 2008-12-12 08:55 webalizer
```

was the installer supposed to create something in /var/www?

---

### Post by MakOwner on 2008-12-18
Hope this helps -- some bright bulb decided to be cute with the debian install and commented out the alias that points to /gallery2.

Somewhere in the crap it throws all over your file system is a README.debian that has the clue.  

one would think the alias would go in /etc/apache2/mods-enabled/alias.conf, but not this bunch.  They have /etc/gallery2/apache.conf

Once you get past that you should be able to get through the install.

Nothing works after that though.

There are like 75 missing files in the install, 25 have been modifed from the "system checker" diagnostics and 4 files older than the gallery packages wants to see will exist on the system.

And good luck getting help over on the Gallery forums.  
I tried Gallery1 first, because that's what I really wanted, a simple flat page html output to put photos on my internal web site.  Waited three days on the forums and 12 hours on the IRC and never got a single response.

Someone did respond on Gallery2, but it was a cut-n-paste "look at the FAQ" ...

I had already done that or I wouldn't have been asking...

](*,)


If you figure any of this out, PLEASE post...

](*,)

---

