---
title: "10.4 password loop"
date: 2011-02-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ibod on 2011-02-02
Hi all

I have been trying to get ubuntu 10.4 running on a Packard Bell Easynote r1004

having had problems with 9.10 I tryed 10.4 first booting from the live cd to test compatability and was supprised when i was presented with a logon screen.

Of cause I could not logon as there was no password setup

So I rebooted and went for a clean install

I set a username and password in the install process

When installed I entered the correct password, and it looked for about a second that all was going to be well, but then the password screen reapeared

I tryed entering again in case of a type and even entering an incorrect password 

The incorrect password was corectly rejected 

I have reinstalled 3 times with 3 different copies of the cd all copies are offical copies
and they work on other pc's

It just returns to the passsword screen each time you enter the password

Is there any way to fix this ??


Thanks

---

### Post by switch10 on 2011-02-02
To remove that password, put in a live cd and open /etc/passwd with your favorite text editor.

Edit the first line, 
```
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
```

so it looks like this:
```
root::0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
```

(remove the "x")

then run the passwd program:

```
passwd
```

enter your new password.

---

### Post by ibod on 2011-02-04
Hi 

> **switch10 said:**
> To remove that password, put in a live cd and open /etc/passwd with your favorite text editor.

Edit the first line, 
```
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
```so it looks like this:
```
root::0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
```(remove the "x")

then run the passwd program:

```
passwd
```enter your new password.

I tried this but had some problems :-

1.)  I could not boot from the 10.4 live CD because is also requires a password (see the first post). I used the 9.10 live CD that can not identify the screen resolution and is almost imposable to work with 

2.) Having booted 9.10 and got the screen readable, I edited the passwd file as above, but : I am new to Ubuntu and am not sure I have the passwd file from the 10.4 install or the passwd file from the live CD.

In a terminal I did as follows :-

```

cd /
cd /etc
sudo gedit passwd

{deleted the x}
{and saved the edit}
{closed Gedit}

passwd

{pressed return for the existing password}
{entered a password}
{re-entered the same password}

{closed the terminal}


```Hope I got it correct

I then shutdown the live CD and booted the 10.4 install

Clicked on the username and entered the password 

It looped again straight back to the password entry screen.

So the above has made no change, it still keeps asking for the password 

Are there any other ways round this ??

---

### Post by ibod on 2011-02-08
Is this in the best area or is there a better place to post it 

Someone else must have seen this, I can't be the only person that 10.4 live CD refuses entry and requires a password

---

### Post by ibod on 2011-06-26
I have given up trying to get 10.04 working on this laptop.

11.04 installs and dose not have the password loop, as above.

---

