---
title: "8.04 no menus, bars or anything. just nothing"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vaalbygaardsvej on 2008-05-01
after upgrading my server (not running server version though)to hardy i started to remove all the programs i don't need hens it's a server no need for OO for excample.
and the upgrade removed my DHCP server :-( but this i proabably can fix.

the case is that i have nothing on the screen when i log in, no icans no menus nothing. all i can do is make a folder this way i can get into the filesystem. and i have a script on the desktop, and via tht i can get to the terminal. what the hell do i do?

i may have inadvertetly removed something important, please this server contains everything. i would love not to have to reinstall :confused:

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-01
I'd try starting up in recovery mode, going into your /home directory and *renaming* your user directory. Just temporarily.

Then go into X (**exit** if in the recovery mode CLI) and log in. If it's borked, then it's something global to all users.

---

### Post by The Crazy Parrot on 2008-05-01
try hitting control-alt-F1 and run

sudo apt-get install xdm

It seems that gdm is bugged

---

### Post by vaalbygaardsvej on 2008-05-01
seems i have gotten just a bit closer to a solution. i may have to explain, even though i have set up this server i am rather new to linux.

the desktop envirtoment im running i called Gnome right?
and this is not installed in synaptic. and when i try to do so it tells me that Gnome-desktop-enviroment cannot be installed. if i try to install that package alone it tells me that Gnome-Keyring-manager cannot be installed cause it is not available.. What the hell?? please help :)

[B]d try starting up in recovery mode, going into your /home directory and *renaming* your user directory. Just temporarily.

Then go into X (exit if in the recovery mode CLI) and log in. If it's borked, then it's something global to all users.[/B]

well this just jams my server completely. how do i rename the dir back so i am able to log in again??

well got things straight again. but still no menus..

[B]try hitting control-alt-F1 and run

sudo apt-get install xdm

It seems that gdm is bugged[/B]

looks like im using GDM in stead of XDM..

---

### Post by vaalbygaardsvej on 2008-05-09
bump.. still haven't figured out why the menus gone bye bye..

any help??

---

### Post by vaalbygaardsvej on 2008-05-14
please someone.. please advice.. stil no menus. but the server is doing everything on the network it is supposed

---

