---
title: "9.04 - Bad, bad Broadcom b43 drivers! No donuts for you"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by milasch on 2009-04-27
Ok, I've managed to make my BCM 4312 wireless device work properly with the following commands:

```

sudo modprobe -r b43 ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl
sudo ifconfig eth1 up

```

Then, in order to make ubuntu 9.04 load the proper drivers on boot, I've edited:

/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

adding the following line:

blacklist b43

But it still gets loaded on boot, thing that made me add the commands to unload the improper drivers and load the proper one into /etc/rc.local, which isn't the best solution, although it works. So I can actually reboot my computer remotely and wait until it's back up.

Now, how do I force b43 drivers to NOT GET LOADED on boot, and make the right driver get loaded?

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-04-27
First, open the restricted drivers manager (Sytem->Hardware Drivers) and try to select the wl driver from the list. Hopefully, that is all that it will take to enable it, and the application will do everything that needs to be done.

If that doesn't work, try adding an alias for the interface in a file under /etc/modprobe.d/, something like this:
```
$ sudo -s
$ echo "alias wlan0 wl" > /etc/modprobe.d/wlan0
```

I hope that one of these solves your problem. I can't test either one of these, because the only computer that I've got that uses the restricted wl driver is not compatible with the b43 driver.

---

### Post by milasch on 2009-04-27
> **Brandon Williams said:**
> First, open the restricted drivers manager (Sytem->Hardware Drivers) and try to select the wl driver from the list. Hopefully, that is all that it will take to enable it, and the application will do everything that needs to be done.

If that doesn't work, try adding an alias for the interface in a file under /etc/modprobe.d/, something like this:
```
$ sudo -s
$ echo "alias wlan0 wl" > /etc/modprobe.d/wlan0
```

I hope that one of these solves your problem. I can't test either one of these, because the only computer that I've got that uses the restricted wl driver is not compatible with the b43 driver.

Actually the Broadcom STA drivers where enabled by default on my fresh install. Still, it's loading the wrong ones on boot, b43. But I'll try to see what's in /etc/modprobe.d/wlan0 when I get home. Thanks

---

### Post by Balogh on 2009-05-14
Try adding the following in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf :

blacklist b43

---

### Post by milasch on 2009-05-14
> **Balogh said:**
> Try adding the following in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf :

blacklist b43

Actually that was the reason which I posted this thread. I  add ths line in question and it still loads it on boot.

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-05-14
Try adding wl to /etc/modules. I'm not sure when those modules are loaded, but I think that blacklisting the one modules and adding the other to /etc/modules might work for you. My suggestion about creating a file in /etc/modprobe.d/ was just an alternate way to do this same thing.

---

### Post by randomsearch on 2009-07-09
Hi,

FYI - anyone using b43 drivers.

My hardware is (lspci):

Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 03)

When I first put this in my PC (it's a PCI wireless card) and switched on Ubuntu, it showed up in the System->Admin>Hardware drivers utility.  Using an ethernet connection, I was able to install these and it worked, although there was a message on the utility about the drivers being disabled immediately after I activated them.

Every time I booted, I had to activate again - still got the error message but it worked.

Then, a kernel upgrade resulted in no hardware drivers being listed!  Yikes.  Like the OP, no donuts.

My solution is to add the following to /etc/modules:

arc4
ecb
b43
mac80211

I have no idea what these do (why don't they have man pages?), and whether they're all necessary, but it works.

Hope this info. is useful, seems to me like someone broke something!

I have not edited /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf, I can see that 

blacklist bcm43xx

...is in there, though.  Might be relevant.

Regards, 

RS

---

### Post by alSee on 2009-09-16
I need vice versa.
Ubuntu 9.04 (the same as 8.10) installs STA drivers ('wl' kernel module) by default for my Broadcom BCM4312 wifi card. But I need 'b43' driver (for aircrack-ng).
I tried to un-blacklist 'b43' and blacklist 'wl'. And even added 'b43' to /etc/modules, but it didn't help. The 'b43' module loaded but wireless interface wasn't recognized by 'iwconfig' or 'airmon-ng'

---

### Post by Pelham123 on 2010-02-14
Thanks very much for this post. It has helped me get back my wireless after a system update.

Information for others:

Upgraded kernel and linux-restricted-modules from 2.6.28.17 to 2.6.28.18

Broke wireless Broadcom 4312 on Dell 1545 Inspiron, the card was listed in 'lshw -C Network' as unclaimed. No wireless on ifconfig

Even though I tried returning to previous versions of kernel, the same problem existed (the only other package in the update was mysql-common).

In the end this post fixed everything. I blacklisted b43 and ssb, popped wl into /etc/modules, restarted and voila!

Thanks very much :D

---

