---
title: "1440x900 Monitor Problems"
date: 2007-09-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rupes on 2007-09-23
**Solution**
Use Envy (google it) to install ATI drivers.


I just bought a 19" HP Monitor.
In the monitor's menu it says that the recommended settings are 1440x900 at 60Hz.

So I configured the monitor using xorg using the wizard in the terminal. Finally 1440x900 was available form the Screen Resolution manager. So, I changed the resolution to 1440x900. The results were absolutely terrible, the fonts were awful and the desktop went off the screen. On the monitor's menu I checked the resolution that was being inputted and found that it was receiving 1152x870 not 1440x900.

The model number is HP w1907s. If anyone can help I would be really really grateful.
Cheers,
Rupes

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-09-23
You might want to post your xorg.conf.
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-09-23
That's very odd. Are you sure you ran the wizard correctly? Try running ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` in the terminal again.... make extra-sure that you selected 1440x900.

---

### Post by rupes on 2007-09-23
**Contents of xorg.conf**
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "gb"
        Option          "XkbOptions"    "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AS [Radeon 9550]"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "UseFBDev"              "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "HP w1907"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       24-83
        VertRefresh     50-76
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AS [Radeon 9550]"
        Monitor         "HP w1907"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1440x900"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection

> **Happy_Man said:**
> That's very odd. Are you sure you ran the wizard correctly? Try running ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` in the terminal again.... make extra-sure that you selected 1440x900.

Tried 3 times already, disabled all other resolutions, enabling only 1440x900. Problem still there.

---

### Post by jwcgator on 2007-09-23
If you're using the Proprietary Nvidiac VCard drivers (not the open source nv ones) you can set up screen resolution through their control panel.  I've had problems in the past with using the dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, but this way it was really simple. 

I am using Gutsy Gibbon.

---

### Post by vambo on 2007-09-23
Hi,
I've just installed a new Acer 19" 1440x900, as follows

1.
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

2. When it finished it [b]didn't/[b] give 1440x900 resolution, instead 1440x1440 !!

3. Edited xorg.conf to change the 1440x1440 entries to 1440x900

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

to bring up gedit to do this.

3. Saved the changes then logout (<ctl> <alt> <backspace>)

4. Log back in then go to  System -> Preferences _> Screen Resolution
 With luck you should then have 1440x900 to select
With a bit more luck you should be there

Cheers

---

