---
title: "9.1 mouse problem... please help"
date: 2009-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by b5a4qms on 2009-11-29
ok, so i am very new to this ubuntu stuff and i know almost nothing... i've been trying to teach myself about all this stuff but with the mouse problem it's been proving difficult. but to the problem itself. 
so my problem is i have no mouse response at all though the keyboard works just fine. the mouse is a logitech optical usb mouse of unknown model number. the computer is just some old thing i had laying around (compaq presario sr1603wm). when i run the code cat /proc/bus/input/devices only two things show up: macintosh mouse button emulator, and at translated set 2 keyboard. and when i run cat /dev/input/mouse0 nothing happens, it seems to just lock down the whole thing. then doing mouse1-5 it says no such file or directory. running the code with just mice locks it out too. i have been searching through many threads of multiple forums to figure this out, but i'm stumped, i even tried a different mouse with no prevail. any help is greatly appreciated. 

thank you ahead of time.

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2009-11-30
Try this.  From a terminal, run:
```
cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log | grep -i adding
```
and see if any kind of mouse device is being added before the Macintosh mouse button emulation.  If you do find logitech mouse being added before, follow the last set of instructions in the post below (the xml code being added to the blacklist file):
[http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=60986](http://bbs.archlinux.org/viewtopic.php?id=60986)
Then run:
```
killall hald
```
Hopefully, HAL daemon should restart itself and see if that fixes your problem.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-11-30
<off topic>
By the way, it's 9.1**0**, not 9.1

Have a look here: [https://help.ubuntu.com/9.10/about-ubuntu/C/version-numbers.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/9.10/about-ubuntu/C/version-numbers.html)
</off topic>

---

### Post by b5a4qms on 2009-12-01
i have now tried all major linux os's and the same problem has followed through each. no usb mouse interface with more than one mouse. i have tried gnome, ubuntu 9.10, ubuntu 8.whatever lts, fedora, and demonoid. though with gnome i did get an error message:

error activating xkb configuation.
it can happen under various circumstances:
-a bug in libxklavier library
-a bug in x server (xkbcomp, xmodmap utilities)
-x server with incompatible lebxkbfile implementation

x server version data:
the x.org foundation
10600000

if you report this situation as a bug, pleas include:
the result of Xprop -root | grep xkb 
the result of gconftool-2 -R
/desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/kbd



xprop -root | grep xkb showed:said it was unable to open display. then showed xprop options

gconftool-2-r /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/kbd showed: 
model = 
options = []
layouts = [en_us.utf-8]



any help would be great. thanks

---

