---
title: "10.04 RC Freezes!"
date: 2010-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dcjose20 on 2010-04-28
Hi all, I just installed Ubuntu 10.04 RC and after only being on for a couple minutes it will just freeze up on me. Can anyone tell me how to fix this issue plz? Thanks!

---

### Post by munky99999 on 2010-04-28
What are you doing when it freezes?

Firefox or Chrome perhaps?

Try holding rightctrl+rightalt+SysRq and type out REISUB


System>Administration>Log File Viewer

Try to find out what is causing the problem. Afterall you are trying out a very early release. Problems are expected.

---

### Post by dcjose20 on 2010-04-28
> **munky99999 said:**
> What are you doing when it freezes?

Firefox or Chrome perhaps?

Try holding rightctrl+rightalt+SysRq and type out REISUB


System>Administration>Log File Viewer

Try to find out what is causing the problem. Afterall you are trying out a very early release. Problems are expected.

Yes I was using firefox. I also just installed it on my laptop and have yet to experience this problem. I will try your suggestion the next time I get a chance. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by vostinar on 2010-05-01
I also experienced the same thing,
I tried new Ubuntu live from CD, and flash.
It frizzes after a short time,
I worked on changing desktop image,
next time Opera, trying to install skype...

I downloaded Ubuntu 3 times from different servers,
and there was no help.

Now i am running Ubuntu 9.10 again from flash memory

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-01
digging logs might be helpfull

---

