---
title: "9.04 Jaunty Jackalope Live CD - Strange Behaviour"
date: 2009-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ZaM0 on 2009-07-27
I recently burned a CD with Ubuntu 9.04. When I booted it with the try option, everything looked pretty fine, excluding the screen was dodged a bit to right (it's 1280x1024). Compiz was switched off by default. I got few Gnome related errors, and when I tried to open any application, it's button showed for few seconds in the taskbar and then just closed itself. After few tries the application even managed to open and worked fine :O. I was able to click the shutdown button. And here is what I got in the end: 
[[IMG]http://img149.imageshack.us/img149/8071/s8302694.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img149.imageshack.us/i/s8302694.jpg/)
I had to shut down manually.

Today I tried booting it again from another CD. I just opened Firefox and a blank error window appeared, then the whole gnome interface disappeared and I left with the cursor and the wallpaper. The cursor could move, but the system was not responsible. I had to hard restart. 

Third try: opened the calculator, then a message popped up, that calculator needs to close, the same one for "metacity" and the graphical environment restarted. Then I got this error - "The Panel encountered a problem while loading "OAFIID:GNOME_IndicatorApplet"" and the system froze. Strange, that when I booted Vista I got a black screen and it froze again. I've never encountered such an error. After the second restart everything was alright. 

I ran Ubuntu 7.10 Live CD before with no such problems. I checked the MD5Sum of the image, the Nero validation completed fine, the CD error checking tool ran fine too.

Here are my specs:
AMD Sempron 3300+ 64
1 GB (2x512MB) DDR 400MHz RAM
GeForce 7300LE 384MB
PCCHIPS A31G Mainboard
and a LG Super Multi DVD RW Drive

I didn't have any hardware related problems(except a faulty RAM stick, which I returned and got replaced, since then everything is ok), and my current OS (Windows Vista) runs fine.

---

### Post by ZaM0 on 2009-07-27
PS: I tried booting 8.04. It loaded up fully and showed the following output in the command line:
```
-bash: /bin/uname: Bad address
```

---

### Post by ZaM0 on 2009-08-03
Anyone, any clues?

---

