---
title: "Swarm Of .goutputstream-xxxxxx Files In Home Folder"
date: 2013-04-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2013-04-05
Please see attachment...

This appears to have been generated by the window manager.  I found more than 100 of these in my home folder.   

The files were all empty so I deleted them.

Does anyone know why these were created and why they were stored in my home folder?

Thanks Hannibal

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-05
coljohnhannibalsmith; Hi !

Known bug //search launchpad for the info// I have the same slopyation. I have not to this time seen a defined cause.
They are safe to delete but as a work-a-round if you log off prior to shutting down the files are not created. [INDENT=3]
no help, but no damage 
[/INDENT]

---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2013-04-06
Thanks man,

I'll read the link.

Hannibal

---

### Post by ZeroFossilFuel on 2014-01-27
Well, this particular bug seems to have been fixed in 13.10 which I am experimenting with. I have found bugs unique to 13.10 that make me uneasy using it in any production environment which is why I'm holding at 12.04LTS. It begs the question, however, why has this particular bug fix not filtered down to LTS? Yes, I understand it's a low priority but having to clean house all the time like this is a real nuisance. And, after all this time, not addressing it at all is just plain sloppy.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-01-27
As far as I understood it had something to do with incompatible versions of gtk or so. It seems to produce these files on 12.04 systems that still have the 10.04 config files sitting in the user's home directory, which would explain why they seem not to occur on fresh installations. Anyway, not much of a nuisance, just a **rm .goutputstream-*** once a month.

---

### Post by a-you on 2014-07-15
Hi all. I too have often wondered about this, and then the other day I happened to come across this in the apparmor profile for evince (look in /etc/apparmor.d/usr.bin.evince):

  # evince creates a temporary stream file like '.goutputstream-XXXXXX' in the
  # directory a file is saved. This allows that behavior.
  owner /**/.goutputstream-* w,

So now we know the source of those files!!!

Btw I'm using ubuntu studio trusty 64 bit but those files were piling up in previous versions too, like definitely in quantal for example; I don't recall whether I had that issue in natty, which was what I was using before quantal, probably so though.

---

