---
title: "19.10: SDDM configuration files - where are they?"
date: 2020-03-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-03-13
I keep getting warnings/errors pertaining to /usr/share/sddm/themes/lubuntu/Main.qml during boot.

Searching, I've found that the following configuration files may be responsible:

```
/usr/lib/sddm/sddm.conf.d
/etc/sddm.conf.d
/etc/sddm.conf
```

According to [https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/eoan/man5/sddm.conf.5.html](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/eoan/man5/sddm.conf.5.html)

Now the first two files don't even exist on my system (following a disk-wide search).

And the third file only contains:

```
[Autologin]
Session=Lubuntu
```

What's wrong here?
Why does my PC still boot with missing configuration files?
And how to get those configuration files installed?

Thank You.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-03-14
I booted up a pretty fresh Lubuntu 19.10 system I have for support purposes, and I have no [COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]/etc/sddm.conf.d (or [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]/usr/lib/sddm/sddm.conf.d either)[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]  however the sddm package is used by Kubuntu so maybe they use it (I didn't boot up a Kubuntu 19.10 system to see as I likely don't have one), or it may is just from upstream documentation and whilst neither Lubuntu/Kubuntu use it, we've not removed it.

For packages like `sddm` which is used by multiple flavors it maybe better to stick to the detail of that flavor first.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]
You'll likely already have looked or been given the following, but I'll give anyway
[/FONT][/COLOR][https://manual.lubuntu.me/stable/3/3.1/3.1.9/sddm_configuration.html]("https://manual.lubuntu.me/stable/3/3.1/3.1.9/sddm_configuration.html?highlight=sddm")[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&amp]


My own `/etc/sddm.conf` file looks exactly like what yours does.

I suspect you've asked about sddm (warning/error) messages before, but sorry I don't retain everything so links maybe helpful or the actual messages (I suspect you've posted before).

[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-03-14
@guiverc, Thank You.
You've confirmed that my installation is OK, at least regarding SDDM.

But that raises the next question: where can I configure SDDM? Apparently nowhere, unless I modify [COLOR=#000000] /usr/share/sddm/themes/lubuntu/Main.qml directly, which I'd like to avoid.


[/COLOR]

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-03-14
OK, the errors and warnings are all gone during boot and shutdown, and in syslog. 

I edited /usr/share/sddm/themes/lubuntu/Main.qml by commenting out the following line:

>         Row {            anchors.fill: parent


                Text {
                    id: txtMessage
                    anchors.top: usersContainer.bottom;
                    anchors.margins: 20
[COLOR=#ff0000]/*                    anchors.horizontalCenter: parent.horizontalCenter */[/COLOR]
                    color: "white"
                    text: textConstants.promptSelectUser
                    font.pixelSize: 16
                    font.family: "Ubuntu"
                }

This got rid of all warnings and errors, but changed the login screen. The login icons moved towards the centre of the screen, and the text below moved left.
I can live with that, but "Main.qml" should really be updated/reprogrammed.

---

