---
title: "10.04: Massive memory usage"
date: 2010-08-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SagaLhan on 2010-08-16
Hey there,

Lately I've been having some problems with Lucid; all my applications seem to be hogging memory like no tomorrow. Within about 15 minutes from booting the system, processes like Google Chrome, Nautilus, Python, Pidgin all start to take seemingly too large amounts of memory.

Chrome is the worst one, easily shooting over 200-300MB of my 2GB's of RAM. I would have reported this as a bug in Chrome itself, but my other applications seem to share the problem to some extent. Also: My colleague has identical hardware and identical versions of Ubuntu / Chrome, while he has no memory problems whatsoever.

Currently I am running Chrome, Geany, Pidgin, Thunderbird and FileZilla. For this and itself, Ubuntu now consumes 1.8GB of RAM (that's including 500MB cached).

Does anyone know how I can solve this problem?

Kind regards,
Silvan

---

### Post by luceerose on 2010-09-11
Ditto.
Check out the Screenshot of my System Monitor.
[ATTACH]169198[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by luceerose on 2010-09-11
I'm also getting the same thing under Debian Squeeze as well.
Ram usage on my Debian system went down from 1.7Gb usage to 800Mb usage when I closed Google Chrome.
On my Ubuntu Lucid computer Ram is sitting at 2.0Gb usage with Chrome open. I'm using google-chrome-beta installed through Synaptic via Google's repository.
I currently have 21 tabs open in Chrome.

---

### Post by deserthowler on 2010-09-11
run free and see what you get.  The gui stuff in too hard for me to understand.  ](*,)

```
earlwho1945@Tiger:~$ free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       2059728     683668    1376060          0      51156     315056
-/+ buffers/cache:     317456    1742272
Swap:      1451004          0    1451004
earlwho1945@Tiger:~$ 
```

Earl

---

### Post by luceerose on 2010-09-11
```
larsenguitars@&#12458;&#12514;&#12452;&#12459;&#12493;:~$ free
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:       4057520    3332928     724592          0     273408    1184092
-/+ buffers/cache:    1875428    2182092
Swap:     11884536       8100   11876436
```

---

### Post by luceerose on 2010-09-11
I think there may be a flash issue with Google Chrome.
I hit SHIFT+ESC to bring up the Google Chrome Task Monitor & the two tabs using the most memory are sites that contain both flash & a shopping cart (bigw.com.au & mwave.com.au)
[ATTACH]169202[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by Lukas666 on 2010-09-11
Chrome creates separate process for each open tab (same as IE8, huge memory hog). So make sure you and your friend use the browser in the same way.

---

### Post by luceerose on 2010-09-11
I went to;
[http://www.macromedia.com/support/documentation/en/flashplayer/help/settings_manager07.html](http://www.macromedia.com/support/documentation/en/flashplayer/help/settings_manager07.html)
And deleted all that flash stuff.
Only made 0.4% difference to ram usage.

Then I cleared Goolge Chromes cache.
That made 0.0% difference.

I think the problem may simply be the way the program itself works.
As stated in the previous post, a separate system process for each tab.
Pretty sucky way of doing things if you ask me.

---

