---
title: "3.5.0-23-generic bug?"
date: 2013-02-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thedardanius on 2013-02-11
Ok,
so I decided to update with ubuntu software updater. I downloaded the 3.5.0-23-generic linux headers. What does that mean> (im new to linux world). Do i update the kernel like that?
And how do I remove it? When I enter advanced options of ubuntu, I from then on see 2 options: linux with 3.5.0-17 and 3.5.0-23. The older one works very well, but the newer one apparently doesnt use the nvidia propriety driver i installed. BTW, the software updater CONTINUOUSLY failed to download a header of the newer linux. It would stop and freeze when reaching that update. So or it is a terrible bug in updater, causing the new kernel to be imcomplete.
What actually happens if I download newer headers> Do i get a newer kernel>
Btw how do i remove older/other kernels? They take in space...

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-02-11
Try holding down the shift bar when booting your system.  This should take you to the grub menu and (if its still there) you can load the older kernel.

I use synaptic to remove old kernels.

[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=remove+old+kernels+synaptic&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=remove+old+kernels+synaptic&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9)

---

### Post by thedardanius on 2013-02-11
Can you please explain me what these headers mean> do they mean c header source or what> do I boot by executing gcc to compile all these headers all over again or how does kernel updating work? please explain... Im new.
 
Use synaptics to delete kernels?? ok. thanks.

---

