---
title: "10.04 - Icons Missing In New Software Center?"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JeZ-l-Lee on 2010-05-06
Hi,

In Ubuntu 10.04 Final
in Ubuntu Software Center
there are missing icons?

Thought it was my desktop computer,
but is same on another computer.

Will this be fixed soon?
Thanks!

Jesse

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-06
> **JeZ-l-Lee said:**
> Hi,

In Ubuntu 10.04 Final
in Ubuntu Software Center
there are missing icons?

Thought it was my desktop computer,
but is same on another computer.

Will this be fixed soon?
Thanks!

Jesse

Would you provide a screenshot. It will only get fixed if it gets bugged at launchpad.

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-05-06
> **JeZ-l-Lee said:**
> in Ubuntu Software Center there are missing icons?

Screenshot ?

---

### Post by JeZ-l-Lee on 2010-05-06
[IMG]http://jessepalser.com/images/U10-MissingIcons/U10-MissingIcons1.png[/IMG]
[IMG]http://jessepalser.com/images/U10-MissingIcons/U10-MissingIcons2.png[/IMG]
[IMG]http://jessepalser.com/images/U10-MissingIcons/U10-MissingIcons3.png[/IMG]
[IMG]http://jessepalser.com/images/U10-MissingIcons/U10-MissingIcons4.png[/IMG]
[IMG]http://jessepalser.com/images/U10-MissingIcons/U10-MissingIcons5.png[/IMG]
[IMG]http://jessepalser.com/images/U10-MissingIcons/U10-MissingIcons6.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-06
Hmmm. Not seeing that here. Not one icon missing.

Was this a clean install or upgrade?

Is this KDE or gnome or xubuntu?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/527503](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/527503)

---

### Post by inameiname on 2010-05-06
Hmmmm I just noticed I have the same issue. Many icons are missing. Not sure why. Perhaps it's because I'm using the Win7 user-made icon set and theme, and not an official one.

---

### Post by JeZ-l-Lee on 2010-05-06
> **philinux said:**
> Was this a clean install or upgrade?  Is this KDE or gnome or xubuntu?

Hi,

I am missing these icons in Ubuntu Software Center on two different computers.
First is desktop computer and was upgraded from Release Candidate to Final.
Second is netbook computer and was clean install of Ubuntu 10.04 Final.
(both are 32bit versions of Ubuntu 10.04 and using Gnome desktop environment)

Will this be fixed soon?
Thanks!

Jesse

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-06
> **JeZ-l-Lee said:**
> Hi,

I am missing these icons in Ubuntu Software Center on two different computers.
First is desktop computer and was upgraded from Release Candidate to Final.
Second is netbook computer and was clean install of Ubuntu 10.04 Final.
(both are 32bit versions of Ubuntu 10.04 and using Gnome desktop environment)

Will this be fixed soon?
Thanks!

Jesse

You need to add your bit to this bug. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/527503](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/software-center/+bug/527503)
Best way is to get a launchpad account if you haven't already got one. Then subscribe to the bug.

Open a terminal then run.

```
apport-collect 527503
```

---

### Post by Calash on 2010-05-06
I have the same issue on my work PC.  Strange, it is the same entries as well.

Sending all the fun info to Launchpad now.


Edit:  Scratch that...getting an error about not being able to connect to Launchpad.  May be an issue with the proxy server here..have to do more research.

---

### Post by malangaman on 2010-06-02
Have same issue on upgrade from 8.04 and on a new install on separate machines.

---

### Post by 235 on 2010-06-07
same issue, after upgrade from 9.10

---

### Post by jars_u on 2010-07-27
I have the same missing icons in Ubuntu Software Center from a clean install of Ubuntu 10.04 32bit, using Gnome.

---

### Post by evworld on 2010-08-09
I am missing icons too... any answers.

---

### Post by booterror on 2010-08-17
well at least I'm not the only one having this problem. lol

---

### Post by inameiname on 2010-08-17
Perhaps it has something to do with the icon set used. Not all icons are found inside, so maybe the ones that aren't are simply not being shown in the software center.

Regardless, currently I've installed and have been using the latest Ubuntu Software Center, 2.1.10, and I don't see the issue like I did with the original Lucid one.

---

### Post by Andrew_P on 2012-08-11
Most likely the icons disappeared when you chose a desktop theme other than the default theme after installation.  I noticed the problem when I selected the Clearlooks theme.

The Ubuntu Software Center in Ubuntu 10.04 (Lucid Lynx) is missing about 25 icons when the Clearlooks theme for GNOME is selected.  This can be remedied by creating the appropriate links to various SVG icons in the Humanity theme icon collection.  The links should appear in /usr/share/icons/gnome/scalable/categories.

The links and their targets are as follows:

[FONT="Fixedsys"][SIZE="2"]applications-3D.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-3D.svg
applications-astronomy.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-astronomy.svg
applications-debugging.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-debugging.svg
applications-chat.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-chat.svg
applications-cardgames.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-cardgames.svg
applications-boardgames.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-boardgames.svg
applications-biology.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-biology.svg
applications-electronics.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-electronics.svg
applications-drawing.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-drawing.svg
applications-fonts.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-fonts.svg
applications-filesharing.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-filesharing.svg
applications-geology.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-geology.svg
applications-geography.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-geography.svg
applications-interfacedesign.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-interfacedesign.svg
applications-haskell.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-haskell.svg
applications-mail.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-mail.svg
applications-java.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-java.svg
applications-publishing.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-publishing.svg
applications-photography.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-photography.svg
applications-painting.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-painting.svg
applications-roleplaying.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-roleplaying.svg
applications-puzzles.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-puzzles.svg
applications-webbrowsers.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/apps/48/web-browser.svg
applications-sports.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-sports.svg
applications-simulation.svg -> /usr/share/icons/Humanity/categories/48/applications-simulation.svg[/SIZE][/FONT]

It's best to start up Nautilus as root ("gksu nautilus") from a terminal window, because you'll need root permissions to create the needed links and move them to /usr/share/icons/gnome/scalable/categories.

To make it easier to patch a new installation of Ubuntu 10.04, my modified categories directory has been archived as a tar.gz file, attached to this post.  To use it, copy the archive to /usr/share/icons/gnome/scalable and extract it there with File Roller ("Archive Manager").  By default, File Roller will not automatically overwrite the existing "categories" directory contents, instead creating a directory named "categories (2)".  So, running Nautilus as root, copy the contents of "categories (2)" to "categories", skipping any files that already exist.  You can delete the tar.gz archive and the "categories (2)" directory when you're finished.  I just used this method while cloning a working Ubuntu 10.04 installation to another machine, and it worked perfectly, saving me a fair amount of typing and clicking.

IMPORTANT:  After importing the missing icons or links to icons, you'll need to force a rebuild of the icon cache before the newly added icons are available for Ubuntu Software Center.  A shell script for doing so can be found at [http://gleamynode.net/articles/2258/](http://gleamynode.net/articles/2258/).  I just added it to my Nautilus scripts so I can run it at will, rather that using it with a cron job as the author of the article suggests.

---

