---
title: "16.04.1 need backup for catastrophic"
date: 2016-08-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-20
new 16.04.1
I have one image each for BackinTime and LuckyBackup.

I am used to win7 where I can use EaseUS to pick things up and plop them down wherever, even if SSD or spindle is destroyed. and it will boot.

I need something that can pick up Ubuntu and plop it down and have it boot.

I do not know if Clonezilla will do this if the disk is destroyed and I have to build on a new disk.  Clonezilla is pretty simple but I think it requires a same or larger size target.

It needs to be something simple.
I have GPARTED and CLONEZILLA on bootable USB sticks.

Thanks!

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-08-20
A Clonezilla image of the whole drive is compressed (consists of a directory with some small 'control' files and a number of 2 GB compressed files). You can restore your complete system (drive with one or more operating systems and data partitions) into a 'third' drive of at least the same size as the size of the original drive.

Clonezilla can also make a cloned copy of the whole drive to a drive of at least the same size [as the size of the original drive]: A direct copy, no compressed image.

I have used Clonezilla for years, and it works well for me. But it is not enough to rely on what I am writing, you should also ***test that restoring from the backup really works for you***. You should never rely on a backup system, that you have not tested.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-20
Yes. Thanks.
Last night I ran a CZ backup of the disk to an img, but I  do not know if that will allocate space on a drive on the fly on a  restore, or if I can use that to restore just one partition.  As you  say, I will have to test it.  i will play with that some more today.

Both Ubuntu and win7 are boot, not UEFI.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-08-20
Let us know how it works to restore to a new drive. Good luck :-)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2016-08-20
> **Kris_M said:**
> Yes. Thanks.
Last night I ran a CZ backup of the disk to an img, but I  do not know if that will allocate space on a drive on the fly on a  restore, or if I can use that to restore just one partition.  As you  say, I will have to test it.  i will play with that some more today.

Both Ubuntu and win7 are boot, not UEFI.

Thanks again!

Depends on how you do the backup.  CZ has two options -- saveparts and savedisk.  The first saves individual partitions; the second the entire disk (all partitions).

I use saveparts because I don't have a separate boot or home partition and when I've done restores, it always restored the original partition to the same location on the drive.

I've never used savedisk because I've never needed to restore all the partitions on a drive.

---

### Post by mbott on 2016-08-20
Clonezilla is your friend. Before every major upgrade, I've saved the current disk image just in case I need to restore. This I had to do with my older laptop when I allowed it to upgrade to 16.04.  We are back on 14.04 and all is well with the world.

-- 
Mike

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-20
Thanks all!

Yes, I think CZ is a winner and know of no alternative.  I tried EaseUS sector to sector, but my BIOS wouldn't even see it as bootable.  I played with rescatux, but wouldn't trust it.

I used to do only saveparts and it saved me many many times.  But I did not have catastrophic backup and I got hosed and lost 14.04.1 and everything Linux.  EaseUS restored all the win stuff.  I parted ways with Ubuntu for a bit.  But 16.04.1 is out and MS is changing the update system so even win7 is not safe from MS snooping.  I will leave games on win7 since they don't use internet and I play them rarely.  I had them working on 14.04 but am far too lazy to redo them all again.  I use 16.04.1 for FF and TBird and that's 95% of what I do.  As I find other things I need, I will add them as needed.

Last night I did a savedisk and have been playing with that.  only 50GB so not that bad.  I can easily fit 4 versions on my 400GB separate ext partition spindle.

My one advice would be to disconnect your main spindle (or SSD in my case), Use CZ to restore to a HD, and then replug that HD in the same SATA position as the original.  I did not and I could tell that fstab or whatever was mightily confused, but it did boot.

Also be aware that you first have to boot the new Linux, and run Grub Customizer to let it re-establish where the win stuff is, then boot to win.  It might work fine if you are in the same HD position as before, but don't know - just be sure!

So thanks again for everybody's encouragement!  Solved!

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-08-21
Congratulations and thanks for sharing your solution :KS

---

