---
title: ".deb installation error"
date: 2007-03-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by c3007223 on 2007-03-07
Hello everyone,

I am new and not even sure if I am posting in the correct place. 

My problem is this. I am trying to get Duke Nukem 3d Atomic Edition working on Kubuntu 6.06. I downloaded the debian High resolution pack, which contains the ports eduke and JZduke, among other things, all given as .deb files. I have tried to install these files by using the install script through konsole, like the guide says, but I always get an error that reads like:

root@daniel-laptop:/home/daniel# '/home/daniel/Duke 3D/Temp/install-for-atomic.sh'
dpkg: error processing EDuke32-1.4.0b2-linux-2.6-intel.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
dpkg: error processing JFDuke3D-20051009-linux-2.6-intel.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
dpkg: error processing HRP-20051101-linux-2.6-intel.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
dpkg: error processing Maphacks-For-Atomic-20051101-linux-2.6-intel.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
dpkg: error processing HRP-For-Atomic-20051101-linux-2.6-intel.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 EDuke32-1.4.0b2-linux-2.6-intel.deb
 JFDuke3D-20051009-linux-2.6-intel.deb
 HRP-20051101-linux-2.6-intel.deb
 Maphacks-For-Atomic-20051101-linux-2.6-intel.deb
 HRP-For-Atomic-20051101-linux-2.6-intel.deb

I don't know what to do next. the directories exist, I created them myself. what do I do?

---

### Post by Jussi Kukkonen on 2007-03-07
dpkg cannot find the .deb files it needs. They should probably be in the same directory as where you run the script, although I can't really be sure since you didn't link to the instructions you are using.
> **c3007223 said:**
> 
I don't know what to do next. the directories exist, I created them myself. what do I do?
I don't think you need to create any directories, just get the .deb-packages in the same place where the script is in (and run it there)...

---

### Post by c3007223 on 2007-05-29
sorry about not getting back to you, I forgot about it. problems all soved, Thankyou very much

---

