---
title: "login screen huge, so enormous can not see fields"
date: 2008-09-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-09-20
Ok, I was having major trouble getting xorg to work with Nvidia on a 15 inch at&t monitor.
I had a working one from another system that used this card. So I copied it over and the screen is perfect when using the computer.

BUT, when logging in, it is absurdly large, you can see the letter U and that is all.

```


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	Defaultdepth	24
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "screen1" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce4 (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"	"640x480@72"	"640x480@75"	"640x480@85"	"800x600@56"	"800x600@72"	"800x600@75"	"800x600@85"	"800x600@60"	"832x624@75"	"1024x768@75"	"1024x768@70"	"1024x768@60"	"1024x768@43"	"1280x960@60"	"1280x1024@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"AT&T"
	Modelname	"AT&T 15 in. Color"
	Horizsync	30-64
	Vertrefresh	50-90
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@85" 36.0 640 696 752 832 480 481 484 509 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@85" 56.3 800 832 896 1048 600 601 604 631 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.284 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@43" 44.9 1024 1032 1208 1264 768 768 776 817 +hsync interlace +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"ATI Rage XL"
	Busid		"PCI:3:6:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by Kellemora on 2008-09-20
Hi SD

Here is a little something I put together.
Give it a try!

TTUL
Gary

Huge Log-in Screen?  Easy fix!
Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron

From a Noob for fellow Noobs!

Preliminary Note:
FWIW:  I did NOT have any luck using StartUpManager from Synaptic.  Editing /etc/usplash.conf xres and yres was unnecessary as they were already correct.  Neither dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg nor update-initramfs -u worked either to correct the HUGE Log-in screen problem.

This is from a total Noob, but took much research to find out exactly, what changed where, to figure it out.  It's also fairly long because it is geared toward big dummies like myself, hi hi.....

A Simple Test:
If you return your monitor to the original default settings, you should find that your log-in screen once again works right.  This was the CLUE to finding out which file controlled the log-in screen for me!

How to change screen resolution (not using Properties) is in another document titled “Screen Resolution Problems?  Easy fix!”  This too might cause log-in screen obesity!

Being a Noob, there may be an easier faster way to do this, but this is what consistently works for me.

The following changes are made using the “ROOT TERMINAL”.

The Terminal in Applications/Accessories does not work for me.  No Permission when you go to save!
If you do not have the Root Terminal under Applications/System Tools, then RIGHT CLICK on Applications, select Edit Menus (by left click) and a Main Menu will appear shortly.  In Main Menu (under Menus) select System Tools and the screen (titled Items) to your right will change.  Place a check mark in the box to the left of Root Terminal and select CLOSE.  The Root Terminal will now appear as a selection when  you select Applications/System Tools.

NOW, Select the Root Terminal.  Before the Root Terminal Opens you will have to Log-in as Administrator.  This is your NORMAL log-in!  Why it doesn't ask for Root Log-in I have no idea.
Even though it shows you are IN Root, you will notice that you are still in your /home/name/ directory.  If you try to open the required file from here, you will get a blank screen so DON'T save it, Close without Saving.

At the prompt type  cd ..  this will take you back to your /home directory.
Type  cd ..  again and you will be in the ROOT Directory and can perform the following command.

Note that the X is a capital letter, all others are lower case!  It's X Eleven not XII.

gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf  This will open your xorg.conf file for editing.

SAFETY OPTION:  Right Click on File, select SAVE AS (left click).  Add  .old  behind the filename xorg.conf so it reads xorg.conf.old, then Right Click on SAVE.  You will now be VIEWING the saved file so select Right Click on the OPEN Icon and select xorg.conf to reopen the working file for changes.  You can always revert back to the original file by saving it as xorg.conf without the word .old behind it.  End of Safety Option.

Scroll down (near the bottom) and you will find a line titled Section “Screen”, tabbed in twice you will find a line that reads Virtual followed by two sets of digits.  You should recognize these digits as being common screen resolutions.
Be very careful here!  It's better to be safe than sorry.
You may notice a High screen resolution listed here, one your monitor cannot recognize, like 1792 1344 (which defaults to 640 480), or it may be very low, like 640 480 already.  My desired screen resolution for the log-in screen is 1024 768 so those are the numbers I chose to replace the numbers.

DO NOT delete the existing numbers yet.  They appear to me to be in placeholders is why!

For safety reasons.  Place your cursor after the first digit of the first existing number and if different from the first number already listed, type the new single digit then move left one space and delete the first number, then move back right and enter your remaining numbers, then delete the old numbers from behind it.  If you are going from 1792 down to 1024, just place your cursor between the 1 and 7 and type 024 then delete the 792 ONLY.  I still use this method if I'm going from 640 up to 1024, placing the cursor between the 6 and 4 as my starting point, typing the whole number 1024.
OK, move to the second number, it may be 1344 and you want 768.  Use the same method here too!  Place your cursor between 1 and 3, type 768, delete the 344, move left and delete the leading 1.

This may be an unnecessary overkill way of doing it.  But why take chances when we're only Noob's?

Go to the top of the Screen and Select SAVE, then wait for a bit to make sure it saved before exiting the gedit program.

This has worked on all Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron machines I have tried it on in my testing!

FWIW:  I did NOT have any luck using StartUpManager from Synaptic.  Editing /etc/usplash.conf xres and yres was unnecessary as they were already correct.  Neither dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg nor update-initramfs -u worked either to correct the HUGE Log-in screen problem.

The above was tested on the following machines with complete success:
HP Pavilion 753n, 2.53GHz Intel P4, 512mb, Intel 82845G/GL video card.
e-machines T4165, 1.6GHz Intel P4, 256mb, AGP 3D video card.
Compaq 5420, 1.47GHz Athlon XP1700, Savage 4 AGP video card.
e-machine T6524, 2.30GHz Athlon 64-3500+, ATP Radion Express 300 video card.

TTUL
Gary/aka Kellemora
9/10/08 – rev 9/15/08

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-09-20
thanks, what finally fixed this was adding screens and graphics found under 'OTHER' menu.
Told it what the monitor was and clicked on it several times. Had to reboot and then it was working with the NVIDIA Drivers.

---

