---
title: ".gvfs breaking winscp?"
date: 2008-04-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-04-10
Today as I'm connecting to my home computer via WinSCP portable, I get an error (see attached screenshot) and then winscp lists only the files starting with a "." I was nevertheless able to transfer a file into my home directory from the windows computer I'm working on.

I log into the same computer at home with putty and everything seems normal, except if I try the following I get output that I don't understand:

  [FONT="Fixedsys"]david@micah:~$ ls .gvfs
  ls: cannot access .gvfs: Transport endpoint is not connected
  david@micah:~$[/FONT]

Is this a bug in ubuntu? In WinSCP (portable)?

db

---

### Post by bigal99 on 2008-04-30
Installed Hardy Heron and right out of the box when I do a 'df -k' I get the same error regarding .gvfs and Transport endpoint is not connected. Well, not quite 'out of the box'. I installed two raid arrays via the alternate CD.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2008-04-30
If you look at the permissions of .gvfs it's not anything I've seen before in Unix or Linux.

The way the structure has been changed has cut the time to load in half but there are still things that have not been transfered over into the gvfs concept yet.

---

### Post by siar on 2008-05-25
I'm not sure what .gvfs is but i can't even ls the file in my hardy install: 
sh@straylight:~$ ls -lat ~/.gvfs
ls: cannot access /home/sh/.gvfs: Transport endpoint is not connected


when i ls -lat the permissions look like:
d?????????  ? ?    ?             ?                ? .gvfs
so thats where the error comes from it just winscp dosent know how to parse that, and i don't either.

/sh
shill.ca :confused:

---

