---
title: "AMD compatible with all intel applications?"
date: 2010-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by loveandequality on 2010-08-08
Im not sure since there different ubuntu  for AMD and intel and i have seen x86 in some applications websites to download. Does that mean it wont work in AMD chip?

Do all ubuntu applications work?

Does AMD always have to be 64-bit what if i just want 32-bit for more culpability for applications?

Is it hard to change from 64 to 32 or from 32 to 64 in AMD?

Since im planning on buying a AMD computer.


Its a noob question but i cant find the answer on Google.

Going to be using AMD Dual Core Athlon&#8482; Neo X2 6850e (1MB L2, 1.8GHz)

Thank you in advance :D

---

### Post by INH on 2010-08-08
AMD uses the x86 architecture.  x86 applications should work just fine on Athlon, Turion, Phenom, or whatever it is you have.

---

### Post by darolu on 2010-08-08
This is a very common question and it shouldn't be that popular... is just a nomenclature issue.

AMD64 refers to (pretty much) all 64-bit architecture popular processors; it is based on an extension of the x86 architecture to manage 64-bit instructions, in my opinion its name should be **x86-64**, in fact many people and documents refer to it as x86-64.

The confusion is generated by the AMD part of course, it is known as AMD64 because AMD (Advanced Micro Devices) was the company that developed it, so they named it AMD64, but it does not mean that is AMD exclusive, at all.

> Does AMD always have to be 64-bit what if i just want 32-bit for more culpability for applications?

Is it hard to change from 64 to 32 or from 32 to 64 in AMD?
No, there are plenty of 32-bit AMD processors, specially old models for example the K6, a Pentium II equivalent processor.
And when it comes to software, you can use 32-bit programs -including the OS-, and even (in some cases) install 32-bit applications on 64-bit OS.

If it is hard to change from 64 to 32... well firs you need 64-bit hardware, and then you just need to install 64-bit programs, including the Operating System (Ubuntu); so it is not hard imo. In everyday use you will not notice a difference in the way you use your computer or how to operate apps; you will notice a difference in performance of course.

> Since im planning on buying a AMD computer.
Good choice :)

---

### Post by loveandequality on 2010-08-08
Thank you im getting a HTPC in about 1 year so im planning ahead.

---

### Post by loveandequality on 2010-08-08
Thank you for the reply :)

---

