---
title: "3.5 install?"
date: 2011-02-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BearDrummer on 2011-02-01
I have a computer I need to put to use for about 2 months before it can be replaced.  The only bootable drive is a 3.5 floppy (the rest quit responding), and it is operating on a 256 memory stick.

Anybody have a suggestion for a minimal that will fit on a 3.5, and allow internet access to download the rest?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-02-01
Download the rest to what? You only have a floppy drive! 512kb from memory. No hard drive to download the rest to. 

I think the best you can hope for is to run a minimal install from the floppy. Not sure how you would even store data you create unless you can get the minimal install loaded into ram then pull out the floppy disk and put a blank one in. Hmmm. 

I did look at a new distro based on Linux just the other day which will run of the floppy but can't remember the name of it. I'll have a look. 

Hard drives are becoming fairly inexpensive. If you get one now no reason you can't use it in the new machine when that comes along, or put it in an external case later (depending on ready cash, of course). ;)

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2011-02-01
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Download the rest to what? You only have a floppy drive! 512kb from memory. 

3.5'' floppies ranged from 264k up to 2.88MB. Well, uless you count 'floptical' 3.5'', they went to 240MB! 720k and 1.44MB were the main standards, and almost all 3.5' floppy drives are 1.44MB. 

@ BearDrummer- I'd doubt that you'll be able to do anything like that now. A few years ago it was far more possible, but not anymore AFAIK.

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-02-01
there is a linux distro (command line i believe) that is booted of a floppy.
 
Have a look here if oyu can find something: [http://www.linuxlinks.com/Distributions/Mini_Distributions/](http://www.linuxlinks.com/Distributions/Mini_Distributions/)
and maybe also here:
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_Linux_distribution](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lightweight_Linux_distribution)
 
but for anything more you would need hard disk or at least a working USB.

---

### Post by BearDrummer on 2011-02-02
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Download the rest to what? You only have a floppy drive! 512kb from memory. No hard drive to download the rest to. 


(snip)


I didn't mean to make it sound like it didn't have a hard drive - it has 2 40  gig hard drives. - it does not recognize the USB ports untill after I get inside an OS.  Not sure why.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-02-02
Sounds like it is too old to have the boot-from-USB feature. This is a long shot, but have you checked for a BIOS update?

---

### Post by BearDrummer on 2011-02-02
> **oldos2er said:**
> Sounds like it is too old to have the boot-from-USB feature. This is a long shot, but have you checked for a BIOS update?

yes.  The computer has BIOS  05, the current is BIOS 06, and I downloaded the .exe file and executed it in Windows XP.  The BIOS did not change.  I am new manipulating BIOS, and I didn't find an instruction manual on it, so I am not sure if it is just the aggravating computer, or if I did something wrong.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2011-02-03
Its not that common for features to be added to BIOSes. It does happen, but its more likely to happen with promised features that they couldnt figure out on version 001. 

Once you get to revision 005/006 is most likely its just for adding support for newer CPUs, or fixing minor problems. 

If you have access to a 2nd computer, and arent scared of a screwdriver you could remove the HDD from your machine, hook it up to the 2nd machine, install some linux OS normally then move the HDD back to your computer.

---

### Post by BearDrummer on 2011-02-03
> **cascade9 said:**
> Its not that common for features to be added to BIOSes. It does happen, but its more likely to happen with promised features that they couldnt figure out on version 001. 

Once you get to revision 005/006 is most likely its just for adding support for newer CPUs, or fixing minor problems. 

If you have access to a 2nd computer, and arent scared of a screwdriver you could remove the HDD from your machine, hook it up to the 2nd machine, install some linux OS normally then move the HDD back to your computer.

no, I am not scared of screwdrivers... they are scared of me...   Is there a "how to" manual accessible out there?

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2011-02-04
Not as far as I know. 

Most manuals/guides are written for hardware that works, installing then swapping the HDD to another computer is a pretty much a hack to get around hardware problems.

---

