---
title: "10.4 How to view my phone/device?"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DavidFelix on 2010-10-13
First of all, I installed Linux!! Thanks QIII and everyone that helped!! And I love it so far. I have VirtualBox with an lite version of WinXP Pro I had laying around. Well I installed VC++ and everything I need but I saved all my project files on my phone which I can't access now :/ It's connect through USB but I can't find it. Please help :)

---

### Post by DavidFelix on 2010-10-14
Anyone?

---

### Post by lordberic on 2010-10-14
Hi David,

What phone are you using? i take it you connected it previously and it showed up as a usb disk?

could open a terminal and type; 
lsusb
and post the output

that should show if it's detected first of all, also when you plug it in you should get a message in dmesg
type; 
dmesg 
in a terminal and post the output of that too

cheers

---

### Post by gandaran on 2010-10-14
> **DavidFelix said:**
> First of all, I installed Linux!! Thanks QIII and everyone that helped!! And I love it so far. I have VirtualBox with an lite version of WinXP Pro I had laying around. Well I installed VC++ and everything I need but I saved all my project files on my phone which I can't access now :/ It's connect through USB but I can't find it. Please help :)
doesn't you phone have any instructions on how to connect to computer?
mine I just switch off the phone and connect to usb, it then mounts as usb drive.

---

### Post by DavidFelix on 2010-10-14
I have a Samsung FreeForm, which worked fine on windows(of course). But I have files on there which I need for my VC++ project. Its connected through USB cord.

In Terminal I typed: lsusb

And the Output  was:

Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 006: ID 05c6:1000 Qualcomm, Inc. 
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

---

