---
title: "11.04 test drive killed my system"
date: 2011-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ghelbig on 2011-05-04
Just for "fun" I booted 11.04 from a USB key on my 10.04 LTS system.

I took the USB key out and rebooted normally (from the hard drive).

The fist thing I noticed is that my blue-tooth mouse was disconnected - 11.04 had "stolen" it from 10.04  I had to remove and reinstall the device to get it to work again.

It also killed my wireless - and that is still dead.

Any clues on how to fix that?  It won't authenticate (even though the pass-phrase is correct and unchanged, and it's asking for a keyring password which it NEVER needed before!

How can I un-do the damage?  Help!  I need my system working!  (It's how I pay the rent - yeah stupid me for even thinking about a non-LTS version.)

---

### Post by edm1 on 2011-05-04
What did you do whiles you were on the live system? The live system should have no access to your hard drive unless you mount it and then it shouldnt really do anything to it by itself.

---

### Post by ghelbig on 2011-05-07
I booted 11.04 to see if the Lenovo V460 touchpad had been fixed (it has not been fixed).

The BlueTooth mouse connected (automatically) when on the live CD, so did the wireless.

The only thing I did was to cruise through a few menus.

It looks like it wrote to a non-volatile hardware configuration register - one that 10.04 knows nothing about, so it can't un-write it.

The internal wireless is still dead - I had to go buy a USB dongle to connect again.

---

