---
title: "7.10 not booting"
date: 2008-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by monocle on 2008-07-04
My Ubuntu 7.10 (Gutsy) installation has stopped booting.

When I start up the computer, the booting proceeds normally to the GRUB OS select screen, where I can select either XP, Ubuntu, Ubuntu Recovery or Ubuntu Memtest. 
[LIST]
[*]If I select XP, boot proceeds normally - I'm on this now.
[*]If I select Recovery, it boots fine and prompts me for the root password - but when I enter the root password (I am completely sure it is the correct one) it denies it and prompts again.
[*]If I select normal Ubuntu boot, it boots fine and displays the loading screen, but then after the loading bar goes for a while the screen becomes black and only a flashing grey cursor is displayed in the top-left corner. The system is not responsive to any keypresses I've tried, including Ctrl-Meta-Backspace and Ctrl-Meta-F1.
[/LIST]

I have had the same screen displayed sometimes before, but then only for a few seconds or a minute, and for no obvious reason. I have tried leaving the black screen as-is for 30 minutes, but it didn't help.

I have booted Ubuntu successfully for about half a year, and I have no idea what triggered this. I do not remember doing anything dangerous or significant system-wise last time I logged in.

So, what should I do to get to the login screen and stop the evil black screen of doom from appearing? Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by monocle on 2008-07-04
Bump.

---

### Post by monocle on 2008-07-04
Will help me? Pretty please?

---

### Post by jocko on 2008-07-04
Hmmm... I had exactly the same happening to me last night.
The first symptoms something was wrong was that nautilus died and refused to restart, then other apps, like firefox and gnome-terminal refused to start, so I rebooted.
The progress bar of the bootsplash went up to about 1/4 and then I just got a black screen with a flashing cursor (I could restart by Alt+SysRq+R,E,I,S,U,B, but with the same results).

I didn't try recovery mode, but I did boot up a live cd and ran fsck on my hd, with no result...
I figured I had done some stupid mistake and broken my system myself, so I ended up reinstalling gutsy (and now everything works fine, so I don't think it was a bad update that caused it).
As I have no idea what caused it, I don't think I can help you much, but it may be time to boot up from a live cd, backup your /home and reinstall...

---

### Post by monocle on 2008-07-04
Thanks, I'll try that if I can't find anything else :-)

---

### Post by Lavaeolus on 2008-07-19
I've got exactly the same symptoms, except that recovery mode does work (it doesn't prompt for a root pw at all). 

I thought it was a problem with gnome because it happened shortly after i tried plugging an external monitor, so i replaced /etc/X11/xorg.conf with /etc/X11/xorg.conf.failsafe and installed KDE, but it still won't boot.

The latest entries in /var/log/messages are:
```
Jul 19 23:24:12 benno-laptop kernel: [   40.076000] Bluetooth: RFCOMM TTY layer initialized
Jul 19 23:24:12 benno-laptop kernel: [   40.076000] Bluetooth: RFCOMM ver 1.8
```

but I can't imagine bluetooth having anything to do with it.

I'm still guessing it's a problem with my display, because Xorg.0.log, kdm.0.log and gdm's logs all end with 
```
Fatal server error:
no screens found
```

---

