---
title: "8.10 Bluetooth Problems"
date: 2008-12-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Unanimated on 2008-12-07
The Bluetooth in Ubuntu 8.10 won't pair with anything. I've tried it with 2 different devices, a Wii Remote and a Motorola phone. It says that it failed to connect on both after a while. Is there any solution? My bluetooth worked fine in 8.04 but I don't want to downgrade because there is hardware in 8.10 that isn't supported in 8.04.

---

### Post by melojo on 2008-12-08
bump

I am having the same issue!!

---

### Post by DizzyEwok on 2008-12-08
> **Unanimated said:**
> The Bluetooth in Ubuntu 8.10 won't pair with anything. I've tried it with 2 different devices, a Wii Remote and a Motorola phone. It says that it failed to connect on both after a while. Is there any solution? My bluetooth worked fine in 8.04 but I don't want to downgrade because there is hardware in 8.10 that isn't supported in 8.04.

Try looking at the Preference by right-clicking on the bluetooth icon, then check all the right boxes are checked for example:
[]Receive Files from other devices

Others may not be checked too!
Good Luck!

---

### Post by ravi.xolve on 2008-12-08
Same here. The problem is with the kernel. Bluez 4.x breaks many thing that worked earlier. So if its possible for you to downgrade kernel to the one that was used in 8.04 it will work for you. It worked for me too!

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-12-08
I did an upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 so all my bluetooth pairing carried forward. You will want to install the gnome-obex-server to facilitate recieving from a bluetooth device. The ffile right click send to no longer seems to work but you can send by right clicking the the bluetooth applet icon.

---

### Post by trendyabinash on 2008-12-08
> **fragos said:**
> I did an upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 so all my bluetooth pairing carried forward. You will want to install the gnome-obex-server to facilitate recieving from a bluetooth device. The ffile right click send to no longer seems to work but you can send by right clicking the the bluetooth applet icon.
Yes I am also having the same problem
it keeps on giving the same problem "org.openobex.Error.ConnectionAttemptFailed"

---

### Post by Unanimated on 2008-12-09
> **fragos said:**
> I did an upgrade from 8.04 to 8.10 so all my bluetooth pairing carried forward. You will want to install the gnome-obex-server to facilitate recieving from a bluetooth device. The ffile right click send to no longer seems to work but you can send by right clicking the the bluetooth applet icon.

Is that in the repos? It doesn't show up.

---

### Post by Unanimated on 2008-12-09
> **ravi.xolve said:**
> Same here. The problem is with the kernel. Bluez 4.x breaks many thing that worked earlier. So if its possible for you to downgrade kernel to the one that was used in 8.04 it will work for you. It worked for me too!

Won't that get rid of all the benefits of Intrepid, though?

Also, a checkmark for receive incoming files isn't there.

And gnome-obex-server isn't in the repos.

Also, the phone can't find the adapter, even though it's set to always visible.

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-12-09
I installed it with synaptic package "gnome-obex-server" version 0.3.4+ssvn1951-Oubuntu1 (intrepid). About reports ver 0.11.0. I installed almost everything relating to obex and bluetooth. Perhaps it's comes from one of the 3rd party sources I added. Might be in:

URI: [http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu)
Dist: intrepid
Components: partner.

---

### Post by Unanimated on 2008-12-09
Well, I got it paired thanks to that, and now...

Also, sorry about the poor quality of that image. I took it, then GIMPed it real quick.

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-12-09
Don't have that problem sending to my Nokia N810. Have you installed ussp-push? It's an alternative protocol to FTP for sending with bluetooth.

---

### Post by royalibrahim on 2009-08-03
I have strange Bluetooth problem, I could send files from Desktop --> Mobile but not from Mobile --> PC. My handset searches Ubuntu PC successfully but after pairing when I try to send a file from mobile to Linux box it's giving error: "Unable to connect". From PC, I could send any file from the context menu "send" option as well as from Bluetooth Applet "Send files to device" option.

I have installed "gnome-user-guide" and "gnome-user-share" packages, which internally has "obex-data-server" and "bluez-gnome". This behaviour is similar for Ubuntu 8.04 (bluez-utils 3.26) and 8.10 (bluez-utils 4.12) versions. I also enabled "System --> Preferences --> Personal File Sharing".

Also, the Bluetooth Desktop Applet application (1.8 version) when I search for "Browse files on devices" and when I select my handset, its throwing the error "Could not display OBEX://[<bluetooth-device]/ Error: connection refused". But this is not happening with Applet 0.25. Why Applet 1.8 version is behaving differently? Why it's not showing the category of searching, whether handset or Desktop?

Please help me to sort out all these issues.

---

### Post by fragos on 2009-08-03
I had a Palm E2 that couldn't sent files via bluetooth but my Nokia N810 could fully funtion to the same Ubuntu system. The problem could be your mobile. There is an Ubuntu package blueman that you might find helpful.

---

