---
title: "14.04 Program/Keyboard shortcut to work with multiple monitors"
date: 2014-05-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zemega on 2014-05-29
Hi.

So I have a desktop with one DVI monitor and DP to HDMI monitor. My question is is there any keyboard shortcut or programs for multiple monitors? My example is Windows 7/8 and DisplayFusion. In Windows 7/8 When you press Start with left/right, it will cycle through all the monitors. In 14.04, Ctrl+Super with left/right, in only does it for one monitor. It doesnt go to the other monitor, so I have to drag it to the other monitor first before snapping it to left/right side. In Windows using DisplayFusion, pressing certain keboard shortcut will transfer one 'window' to another monitor. In Ubuntu, I did not found any.

In a way, Windows 7/8 plus DisplayFusion makes working multiple monitors really easy using keyboard shortcut. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I have not able to find anything that can match my example in Ubuntu or Linux. Almost all of the pages I go through using Google shows me how to setup multiple monitors.

So I was wondering, with the release of 14.04, is there anything that I should know about working with switching/snapping/transferring 'window/program' with multiple monitors. I know keyboard binding might work, but I absolutely have no idea what to bind to. Maybe there is program somewhere out there that I didn't manage to find. Maybe a script in transferring window from one monitor to another monitor. Its nice to see when you use multiple workspace,  you can easily transfer application to other workspace, but multiple monitors, not so much.

---

### Post by e27183 on 2014-06-22
Hi Zemega, I seem to have it figured a solution.

I'm still sounding it out, as the behaviour is weird, but this seems to have worked for me based uptangling this thread: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/22207/quickly-place-a-window-to-another-screen-using-only-the-keyboard](http://askubuntu.com/questions/22207/quickly-place-a-window-to-another-screen-using-only-the-keyboard)

Ubuntu 14.04

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager compiz-plugins
```

Open 'CompizConfig' (press `Super` and start typing or something).

Open 'Window Management' (second from the bottom)

Select 'Put' (this option is only availabe if `compiz-plugins` are installed).

Enable using 'Use This Plugin': 'Enable Put' checkbox bit of the way down in LHS panel.

---
    
Be careful with **compiz**! It looks exciting but it will break your computer swiftly and without warning if used incorrectly. Only mentioning as this has happened to me and it's annoying.

These steps allow some very sketchy moving-around-viewport behavior using Ctrl-Alt-[keypad-keys].

For myself I disabled 'Put Top' and 'Put Bottom' (and I'm considering getting rid of the corner ones) as I liked the exising behavior and this just didn't work with my monitor setup. But Left/Right will probably be good enough.

Apparently 'Put To Next/Previous Output' is what I actually want but the keybinding just weren't working no matter what I set them to.

---

I don't suppose you asked this question on: [http://askubuntu.com](http://askubuntu.com) ? 

If so I could post this answer there, might as well get some points ;)

---

### Post by zemega on 2014-06-22
I did ask on askubuntu, [http://askubuntu.com/questions/475558/program-keyboard-shortcut-to-work-with-multiple-monitors](http://askubuntu.com/questions/475558/program-keyboard-shortcut-to-work-with-multiple-monitors) . I'll try this first.

---

### Post by zemega on 2014-06-23
Okay, at first when i enabled put to next output, it didn't work. After a daily restart, put to next output work. So for some reason (consistency with Windows + Display Fusion) I set the keys to Ctr Super X. There are 1 thing that I will not bother 'fixing' and even that is when you have monitors with different resolutions. If the window is maximised in one monitor, when you use the function, the window will be transferred to another monitor and be maximised to that monitor, which is good. What is not good is when the monitor is snapped to left or right, and you use the function, the width is not adjusted, but only the height is adjusted.

---

### Post by zemega on 2014-06-27
Well, since there is no more reply, I'm marking this one as solved.

---

