---
title: "8.10 slow issues"
date: 2009-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sanike on 2009-10-25
Hi all,

I'm working on my girlfriend's box right now (no pun intended), shes got a P4 1.6ghz, 512mb ram, with my old AGP GeForce FX 5200, running 173.14.12 drivers from nVidia.  She has 32gb free on her drive, I think the drive itself may be slow but I'm not sure.  The extra visual effects are off.

What the issue is, is that everything takes a while to load, whether I'm opening a USB flash drive, opening FF, running wesnoth, etc.  However QuakeLive runs pretty damn fast, faster than my home PC.

Also last night I did a transfer of 1.5gb of USB information to her drive, it took over 30 minutes to process.  I'm not sure if thats related or not, but this is a CLEAN install that has not been mucked about any way, other than the addition of the nVidia drivers.  She doesn't even use Wine.

I'd appreciate any and all suggestions as to where I can look, I searched the forums prior and wasn't able to find the specific problems I was looking for but attempted some of the FF changes to no avail.  I want to rectify this issue prior to upgrading her to 9.xx due to the fact that if its a drive issue, I'll replace the drive first.

Thanks everyone and anyone.

-Mike & Sandi

---

### Post by shadow120 on 2009-10-25
i had driver problems in 8.10 that i didnt have on any other releases that i never could fix.  you may want to do a clean install of 9.04 and see what happens

---

### Post by sanike on 2009-10-25
Do you know which drivers were affected?

---

### Post by shadow120 on 2009-10-25
i had problems with my video drivers on a dell dimension 2400

---

