---
title: ".sh script, Autostart.sh help"
date: 2009-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2009-09-09
Ok, so the Prefix says Ubuntu, but what I'm asking about is actually in #! Crunchbang 9.04, but I figure that seeing  as the underlying OS is the same, I'll ask for help here.

So, my problem is that I have 3 sshfs shares which I would like to mount automatically at login. I presume that this means editing the autostart.sh script, but using a lot of trial and error, I found out that you cant do it by the seat of your pants.

The shares mount to ~/Server, ~/Two-Face and ~/Data using the command
```
sshfs davee@ip_address:/path/to/directory /mount/point
```

Now, I've made three .sh scripts for each mount (and corresponding umount .sh scripts), and when excuted, these ask for the server's user password. Ideally, I'd like these to mount automatically on login, and not to ask for a password.

Like I said, this is in #!, so if anyone here knows anything I'm missing, please fill me in :lolflag:

Note: I've already tried and failed in using ob-autostart.


Thanks in advance to anyone able to help :)

---

### Post by Diabolis on 2009-09-09
I mount a samba shared drive by just adding the proper line to **/etc/fstab**
I've never worked with sshfs before, but probably you can do something similar to this:
```
//10.0.1.37/s734m /media/sambashare cifs  username=####,password=####,defaults 0 0
```
This exact line, with the proper edits, might work. For more info:
```
man fstab
```

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2009-09-09
Thanks for the suggestion, but unfortunately, it seems that fstab doesn't recongnise sshfs, and using cifs comes up with the error ```
dave@crunch:~$ sudo mount -a
mount: //192.168.1.1/home/dave is not a valid block device

```

man fstab doesn't list sshfs (then again, doesn't list cifs either) but either way, it doesn't understand it. Thanks for the suggestion though :)

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2009-09-09
Well, I tried the instructions of how to add SSHFS to fstab as found [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=430312"), but unfortunately, couldn't get it to work. 

To be honest, I don't mind having to excute the script myself, but what I would like to know is how to excute these three commands in one script, and add a password element to them so that I don't have to key in the password. If it makes any difference, when the commands are run singly form their own .sh scripts, the password is asked for in a small dialog box, titled "OpenSSH". 

I'm seriously confused when it comes to writing .sh scripts, so help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by ivelasco on 2009-09-09
To do it with ssh you must go with ssh 2.0 and a certificate without password.You must have the cert in the client(without it is imposible to login)and authorize it in the server side.

[Here]("http://www.howtoforge.com/scheduled-backups-with-rsyncbackup-debian-etch") you can find how to configure the certs.

For you only is interesting the ssh part of the tuto.


Good luck!

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2009-09-09
> **ivelasco said:**
> To do it with ssh you must go with ssh 2.0 and a certificate without password.You must have the cert in the client(without it is imposible to login)and authorize it in the server side.

[Here]("http://www.howtoforge.com/scheduled-backups-with-rsyncbackup-debian-etch") you can find how to configure the certs.

For you only is interesting the ssh part of the tuto.


Good luck!

Right, well thats the password side of things sorted =] But still leaves me with the question of how do I excute three commands with one script?

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2009-09-09
Right, after all that, a bit more trial and error and I got it. Thanks for the help :D

---

