---
title: "10.04 Mouse clicks off and on detected"
date: 2010-08-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Peter7K on 2010-08-20
So I just traveled on an airplane, and while I had my laptop as a carry-on, I'm hoping this ISN'T a hardware issue (I definitely didn't throw the bag around or anything).  But that could be an option.  This is my difficulty:

I can move the mouse all I want.  However, 70% of the time, the mouse doesn't appear to be able to actively click on anything.  Hover animations usually don't register when the mouse is "wigging out" like this.  At times, clicks register in the one active window, but I can't click on another window.  It seems to be a problem with the ubuntu desktop/windows in general.  

Another peculiar thing is: when I try to run synaptic (Alt F2: gksudo synaptic), I get the error regarding a malicious program possibly trying to grab the mouse, or another program grabbing the pointer's focus.  This occurs 100% of the time.  It's almost like there's some hidden program grabbing the pointer clicks?

This occurs also regardless of whether I have advanced desktop effects (compiz) on or awn running by the way.

Here's my TOP in order of usage:
```
Xorg
compiz
avant-window-navigator
rsyslogd
top
init
scsi_eh_1
indicator applet
hald-addon-stor
upowerd
NetworkManager
dbus-daemon

kthread
migration/0
ksoftird/0
watchdog/0
migration/1
ksoftirqd/1
watchdog/1
events/0
events/1
cpuset
khelper
netns
async/mgr
pm
sync_supers
bdi-default
kintegrityd/0
kintegrityd/1
kblock/0
kblock/1
kacpid
kacpi_notify
kacpi_hotplug
ata/0
ata/1
ata/_aux
ksuspend_usbd
khubd
kseriod
kmmcd
khungtaskd
kswapd0

```Please help!  My GUI desktop is essentially unusable right now :(  Thanks.

PS: This error happens both when I use a mouse or the touchpad on my laptop.

EDIT:  And.. of course.  Right as I click send on this post from my friend's computer Ubuntu decides, "Okay he finally went and posted on the forums, I'm going to magically fix myself now."

Anyone know why this might have been happening?  Just rebooted again, works fine.  Maybe it was hardware malfunctioning due to intense exposure to humidity (I just flew down to New Orleans)?

Update2: Realized it was my mouse that was malfunctioning, and weirdly the touchpad would malfunction whenever that mouse was plugged in.  Oh well, luckily I have a backup!

---

