---
title: "7.10 keeps requesting install disk"
date: 2008-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Colorado on 2008-05-02
Hi!

I had a little trouble the other day when setting up my laptop for 7.10.  When I tried to add programs, sometimes it would display a message asking me to insert the original disk.  I did not have it with me at the time, and was not able to install many of the programs on my list.  

Is there a way to force Ubuntu to look for whatever files it wants on the Internet rather than constantly asking for the install disk to be inserted?


Many Thanks!

Colorado

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2008-05-02
Go to System->Administration(or is it Preferences)->Software Sources and uncheck the Ubuntu cd option.

---

### Post by kingpoiuy on 2008-05-02
I don't have my 7.10 with me (because my old laptop can't handle it) but I have 6.06 here so this answer might be slightly different than yours because they have changes some menu items.

Go to system>Administration>Synaptic Package Manager

In Synaptic select settings>Repositories

There should be a list there where you can uncheck your CD media.

That's about all I can do for you right now.  Hope this helps or at least gets you on the right track.

---

### Post by Colorado on 2008-05-02
Many Thanks for the super-quick response!  

There is much analysis of why people like Linux, and in particular Ubuntu, and lots of theories run around, but I have to say that knowing you have thousands of Linux friends out there ready to help is a huge part of it!  

And of course, the answer seems to have been ridiculously simple.


Thanks Again!


Colorado

---

### Post by Prestige08 on 2008-05-02
> **Colorado said:**
> Hi!

I had a little trouble the other day when setting up my laptop for 7.10.  When I tried to add programs, sometimes it would display a message asking me to insert the original disk.  I did not have it with me at the time, and was not able to install many of the programs on my list.  

Is there a way to force Ubuntu to look for whatever files it wants on the Internet rather than constantly asking for the install disk to be inserted?


Many Thanks!

Colorado
You can go into the settings for the Package manager and go to the Third-Party settings and check to make sure that the online server is allowing access.  Also, you need to make sure that you have an internet conection for the feature to work.  If all else fails, remove your CD from the list of Third-Party sources.

                 Prestige

---

### Post by Colorado on 2008-05-02
Many thanks!

I'm looking forward to getting this thing fully configured!  Of course, I'll be upgrading to Hardy as soon as the install disks arrive.  (I'm in an isolated spot with limited Internet access.)


Colorado

---

