---
title: "20.04 Cron - scp jobs do not behave as expected"
date: 2020-07-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by richardi99 on 2020-07-29
I have a number of CRON jobs, all similar to the following:&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;&amp;nbsp; &amp;nbsp; &lt;em&gt;sshpass -f '~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub' scp -rp ubnt@10.0.0.3:'/data/autobackup/' '/home/richard/Dropbox/House/Sandhill House/Unifi Network/Unifi Backups/Network'&lt;/em&gt;&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;They run, but do not run as expected.&amp;nbsp; In the example above, I would expect the files within the folder AUTOBACKUP to be copied, but instead the whole folder is copied.&lt;br&gt;I have confirmed this by running these commands in terminal, where they behave as expected i.e.&lt;br&gt;scp -rp ubnt@10.0.0.3:'/data/autobackup' '/home/richard/Dropbox/House/Sandhill House/Unifi Network/Unifi Backups/Network' COPIES THE FOLDER&lt;br&gt;scp -rp ubnt@10.0.0.3:'/data/autobackup/' '/home/richard/Dropbox/House/Sandhill House/Unifi Network/Unifi Backups/Network' COPIES THE FILES&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Why am I having problems via CRON?&amp;nbsp; Can anyone please assist?&lt;br&gt;&lt;br&gt;Thanks!&lt;br&gt;

---

### Post by richardi99 on 2020-07-29
No idea why my post became corrupted, so here it is again in readable form:

I have a number of CRON jobs, all similar to the following:

    sshpass -f '~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub' scp -rp ubnt@10.0.0.3:'/data/autobackup/' '/home/richard/Dropbox/House/Sandhill House/Unifi Network/Unifi Backups/Network'

They run, but do not run as expected.  In the example above, I would expect the files within the folder AUTOBACKUP to be copied, but instead the whole folder is copied.
I have confirmed this by running these commands in terminal, where they behave as expected i.e.
    scp -rp ubnt@10.0.0.3:'/data/autobacku**p' **'/home/richard/Dropbox/House/Sandhill House/Unifi Network/Unifi Backups/Network' COPIES THE FOLDER
    scp -rp ubnt@10.0.0.3:'/data/autobacku**p/'** '/home/richard/Dropbox/House/Sandhill House/Unifi Network/Unifi Backups/Network' COPIES THE FILES
Why am I having problems via CRON?  Can anyone please assist?
Thanks!

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2020-07-30
I have been looking at your commands and wondered about my own struggles with scp - why I had issues in the past and don't have issues anymore.

What I noticed, is that all my currently used backup scripts always end with a '/' on both source and destination.

There is probably a reason for that and it probably avoids weird bugs...

---

### Post by richardi99 on 2020-07-30
Thanks.
I got round this issue by putting my commands into a shell script and calling that from Cron.  Still no idea why they behaved differently in Cron.

---

