---
title: "Can't write Hebrew in mlterm"
date: 2020-11-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by idanh142 on 2020-11-24
Hi there. Good to be back in this forum after years on Windows. :)

I am a Hebrew speaker. I wanted to use mlterm to run vim, so as to edit a text file containing both Hebrew and English text. Unfortunately, in both the mlterm terminal and inside vim itself, it appears I can't write Hebrew. I am changing the system keyboard layout using the (global) shortcut, I can see the change was applied, but writing Hebrew inside mlterm or vim has no effect at all. English works perfectly well. Text files containing Hebrew properly display only their English portions. The Hebrew somehow looks like a jumble of random Hebrew, English and special characters.

Perhaps related to that, in the GUI configuration of mlterm, the input method is set to "Keyboard", but on the auto option it says it's "currently unknown". It suggets to me the problem might be that mlterm is unable correctly identify my input method. Setting it manually to Hebrew has no effect, however. Perhaps it relates to system layout setting, somehow?

I also tried changing the default encoding in mlterm, chanding the font to one supporting Hebrew and English and basically setting everything that can be set to "hebrew" in mlterm's GUI configuration and also meessing a bit with some CLI flags that looked relevant. Didn't work.

There is something else which suggets to me this is related to a system setting. I can't type Hebrew inside Konsole. It might not  be a font-related issue, since it doesn't help to change it to a Hebrew font.

For what it's worth, here is my l /etc/default/locate file:
```

# File generated by update-locale
LANG=en_IL
LANGUAGE="en_IL.utf-8:en"
LC_ALL=C

```
And here is the output of "locale":
```
[FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]LANG=en_IL.UTF-8[/COLOR]
LANGUAGE=en_IL.utf-8:en
LC_CTYPE="C"
LC_NUMERIC="C"
LC_TIME="C"
LC_COLLATE="C"
LC_MONETARY="C"
LC_MESSAGES="C"
LC_PAPER="C"
LC_NAME="C"
LC_ADDRESS="C"
LC_TELEPHONE="C"
LC_MEASUREMENT="C"
LC_IDENTIFICATION="C"
LC_ALL=C
[/FONT]
```

Any help at all would be appreciated. Thank you very much!

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2020-11-25
Shalom,

It sure looks like there are not many Hebrew users here.  You must be feeling lonely.

Have a look at these:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HebrewLocalizationHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HebrewLocalizationHowto)
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/544527/unicode-hebrew-typing-works-in-some-applications-but-not-others](https://askubuntu.com/questions/544527/unicode-hebrew-typing-works-in-some-applications-but-not-others)

---

