---
title: "9.10 udevd"
date: 2009-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2009-10-30
upgraded to karmic and at boot my CPU usage is crazy.
gvfs-gdu-volume 
update-notifier
udevd
devkit-disks-da 

are all using too much; a sudo killall udevd fixes it.

an additional problem (unrelated)
I have also had to uninstall pulse and install esound, and now have not volume 'dial' available in notification area.

---

### Post by glaze on 2009-11-02
I have this problem on Kubuntu 9.10 64-bit, clean install. I also had it in 9.04, but there only udevd was eating cpu.

---

### Post by chucknorris on 2009-11-02
Same problem here. gvfs-gdu-volume, devkit-disks-da, update-notifier and dbus-deamon consuming 10-20% CPU each. Upgraded from Jaunty to Karmic.

---

### Post by jlindbergh on 2009-11-04
I second that. For me, gvfs-gdu-volume uses CPU like crazy after switching from Jaunty (32) to Karmic (64). The System monitor reports most usage as IOWait, but top says around 8-15% actual CPU cycles used.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2009-11-04
removing all ntfs partitions from fstab fixes it, so does reinstalling 9.04.

I went for the latter

---

### Post by jlindbergh on 2009-11-04
Hey, thanks for clearing that up! Now we have a workaround, let's hope a real solution comes along.

---

### Post by ubudv on 2009-11-08
This is a pretty massive bug if you ask me. With this bug my system is constantly using 70-100% cpu. This makes doing anything else almost pointless since it is so slow.

---

### Post by nic2 on 2009-11-11
Another solution is to simply leave a disc in the Drive - have been using this solution since 9.04 (not very elegant but effective)

---

### Post by ode on 2009-11-12
I too am experiencing this problem.
 I do have ntfs partitions on my drive but none of them are in my fstab.
The only partitions in my fstab are root and home (both ext4), swap and proc.
 
 I have filed a bug at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/devicekit-disks/+bug/481626](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/devicekit-disks/+bug/481626)

---

