---
title: "How to boot into Windows Safe mode from grub"
date: 2011-01-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2011-01-27
Recently I installed ubuntu aoongside windows 7 in dual boot and everything seems ok. however, i wanted to boot into windows  safe mode to resolve a possible driver issue there. problem is, grub menu shows the the normal windows boot option but not the windows safe mode boot option. but i know the boot option exists because it booted once when i accidently shut down windows incorrectly or something and restarted it.

so, how do i boot into windows safe mode?

---

### Post by madnorthnorthwest on 2011-01-27
choose windows on grub and press F8 in the windows bootloader.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-01-27
As SOON as you select Windows in GRUB, start pressing F8 and keep pressing it repeatedly until either safe mode comes up, or you get a text screen from which you can select safe mode.

---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2011-01-31
Well, that works. 

Can you guys tell me how to edit what appears in the grub menu?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-01-31
You don't edit the GRUB menu anymore.  With GRUB 2, the menu is autogenerated from scripts whenever update-grub" is run or the kernel is updated.

If you want to customize startup entries, the easiest way to do that is to install startup-manager and run that.  It's available in the repos.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-01-31
Another alternative is Grub Customizer:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1664134)

---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2011-02-02
OK, got it. One more thing. I was planning on installing ArtistX as a third OS on my PC. I think its based on Ubuntu 9.10. Would it affect Grub? Can I install it without any changes on everything else?

---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2011-02-08
Hey guys. I would really appreciate it if someone could answer my last  question.

---

### Post by Zuben El Genubi on 2011-02-08
I'd be interested, too. I have a dual boot windows 2K/XP right now. They are 2 separate hard drives and I hit delete to enter setup, pick the drive in the bios, save it.
The machine then boots into whichever, and I can hit F8 for safe mode.  When the computer loaded for the first time, it ran Ubuntu from the CD, but the "Hit delete to enter setup" choice was there.  If I install, will I still get the choice of drive in the Bios? 
I'll be replacing the 2K drive. XP runs Photoshop and other Adobe programs and that's it.
It does not have internet connection allowed, so that will stay. 
2K was used for general internet and some minor/or quick processes. Ubuntu will be replacing that.

So far, I ran the CD, and Ubuntu even found my printer. The Wacom tablet worked, and I will have to try the scanner. I have to get the internet setup from the file to try that.
It looks like I can transfer files to a backup easily, and that will be first project. 

I did ask about a sticky for terms. Grub??? I'll have to know what I'm asking about!

Thanks

---

### Post by yesrno on 2011-02-08
> **EthioJOB said:**
> Hey guys. I would really appreciate it if someone could answer my last question.
 
After you install the ArtistX OS. Run update-grub from Ubuntu and it should be automaticly added in your Grub list ;-)
It's possible that after you install the OS and you reboot that it already is listed.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-02-08
Depending on how ArtistX installs (especially if it's based on 9.10 as you mention) there may be an option in the last step to not install a bootloader. There would be an "Advanced" button on that installation page to access Grub installation options.

It would be best to avoid installing a bootloader at all, but if that is not possible you can boot back into your normal Ubuntu OS or the LiveCD and reinstate Grub2 as your bootloader.

---

### Post by migs73 on 2011-02-08
> **Zuben El Genubi said:**
> 
I did ask about a sticky for terms. Grub??? I'll have to know what I'm asking about!

Thanks

**GR**eat **U**niversal **B**ootloader

BTW there are great How to's all over the forums on dual booting (triple booting) with windows. Have a look around.

What I will say is;

**Always backup any data before doing anything with partitioning!!!**

---

### Post by EthioJOB on 2011-02-10
> **drs305 said:**
> Depending on how ArtistX installs (especially if it's based on 9.10 as you mention) there may be an option in the last step to not install a bootloader. There would be an "Advanced" button on that installation page to access Grub installation options.

It would be best to avoid installing a bootloader at all, but if that is not possible you can boot back into your normal Ubuntu OS or the LiveCD and reinstate Grub2 as your bootloader.

Actually, there's a new version out which is based on 10.04. If I can avoid installing the bootloader I think that would be cool. Someone from the ArtistX forums suggeted using EasyBCD on Windows to add ArtistX in it. What do you think?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-02-10
> **EthioJOB said:**
> Actually, there's a new version out which is based on 10.04. If I can avoid installing the bootloader I think that would be cool. Someone from the ArtistX forums suggeted using EasyBCD on Windows to add ArtistX in it. What do you think?

I rarely use Windows and have never used EasyBCD so I really don't have an opinion on it. I can say that Grub2 should be able to handle everything, especially if ArtistX is based on 10.04. 

For EasyBCD help there are probably Windows forums in which there are uses who are very knowledgeable about it. But if you want to stick with Grub2 I know there are plenty of helpers around here who will be glad to help.  Good luck either way.  :-)

---

