---
title: "11.10 - system not responsive"
date: 2012-03-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-18
I just ran updates to make sure my 11.10 kubuntu install was current.  It asked me to reboot and I did so.  Upon logging in, I noticed that it change my wallpaper.  Odd.

I then noticed that the majority (but not all) of things I try to interact with in the GUI do not respond.  Dragging the windows that I had left open during my last session won't work.  I click on the K Menu to no avail.  I can, however, minimize and restore the open dolphin windows.

Using CTRL+ALT+F6, I dropped into a shell, and ran "top".  Nothing seems to be hogging resources.  

I don't get it.  Why isn't the GUI responding to my inputs?

I'm really growing tired of spending hours fixing my system every time I attempt to do an update.  I need to get work done but instead I get to track down stupid issues.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-19
$20 paypal reward to anyone who can figure out this issue before I go to bed.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-19
I don't even know where to start with this issue.  Maybe if I delete my .kde folder?

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-03-19
You don't provide technical information about your system, so I am basically just guessing. Could it be an issue with the video driver? Are you running on open source or proprietary drivers?

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-19
> **2F4U said:**
> You don't provide technical information about your system, so I am basically just guessing. Could it be an issue with the video driver? Are you running on open source or proprietary drivers?

That's possible.

I'm running a low end nvidia card, and iirc, I'm running the proprietary nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-03-19
> **kooldino said:**
> That's possible.

I'm running a low end nvidia card, and iirc, I'm running the proprietary nvidia drivers.

if it is like 4 generations behind the current, then the opensource drivers should support it well.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-20
> **idoitprone said:**
> if it is like 4 generations behind the current, then the opensource drivers should support it well.

So you think if I login via the command line, remove the driver, and install the OS one, it will work?

Anyone happen to know the name of current version of the OS nvidia driver?

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-21
So I removed nvidia-common and logged in, but the problem persists.  It's been DAYS, and I really need to get my machine running.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-21
I'm truly baffled.  Clicking on almost anything nets no response.   However, the following things still work:

-If I move my cursor up to the upper-left corner of the screen, it will go into expose.  From there, I can select or close the window of my choice.
-I can click on the taskbar to minimize and restore windows.
-The "run command" dialog sort of works.  I can get it to come up, but the cursor doesn't blink and it won't accept keyboard input.
-Alt+tab works fine.  Here's where it gets really odd.  If I bring up the run dialog and attempt to type, no characters appear.  However, if I alt tab out of it and come back, the characters that I had previously typed are there. So it IS technically accepting the keyboard input, but it's simply not drawing it until I refresh it.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-21
Ok, after even more tinkering, I figured out that I can in fact click on anything I want, but I don't get to see the results of my interaction until i force the screen to redraw (by triggering expose, for example).

Anyway, here's what I found out about my graphics card/driver:

I have an nvidia 8400GS card running the nvidia_173 driver (although it said it wasn't currently loaded, despite it being shown as active).  I went to enable the other nvidia driver in the list and it told me there was an error and to check /var/log/jockey.log

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-21
Removed the nvidia-173 driver using aptitude on the command line (which I guess means that I'm running an open source driver now?).

Logged back into the system.  Everything seems to work.

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2012-03-21
This very same thing happened to me upon a recent update, and I ended up finding the same solution as you.  There seems to be some odd bug that trashes the video card driver, and simply purging and reinstalling seems to fix it. 

It's too bad that I've been way too busy to check up on the forums here, or I could have saved you a couple days of hassle.  :frown:

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-21
True story.  Well, at least it's documented now and we can save the next guy a headache.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-03-21
> **kooldino said:**
> True story.  Well, at least it's documented now and we can save the next guy a headache.

Well this is why the kernel community i passinate against binary blobs

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-03-23
Explain?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-03-23
Hi, I have problems that requires a reinstall of the same driver after updating to a new release.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2012-04-02
Ok, so do an apt-get remove of the driver and then enable the free driver.

---

