---
title: "9.10 boot failure: system halted"
date: 2009-12-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vividia on 2009-12-31
I recently installed 9.10 on an older pc.  Everything was running fine if a little slow but its about 7 years old.

Specs
768 DDR RAM
Penitum 4 1.6 GHz
400 Mb cache memory... I think
(need anymore?)

What happened before boot failure was I was trying to bring up a couple images to work on Gimp.  One may have been in the 9,000 resolution size but I'm not too sure.  Never had a problem working in high resolutions.  THe pc froze.  I gave it a little time to work itself out.  When it was a black screen with the pointer I hit the reset button.

The computer went through a full RAM check (cuz its set for that) all RAM reported.  Got the one beep for POST and then Boot Failure: System Halted message.

I then rebooted and went into BIOS and set it up to boot from the installation CD as live.  Same results.  I let it sit for an hour on the the thought that it needed some time to cool off.  Same results.

This is not my primary computer.  But I did recently take everything off of the primary and slap it on to this one when I reformatted and installed 9.10 on the primary (I prefer clean installs though they do have their own pains).  

That being said, my primary concern is recovering data.  I have an external drive that I can use to transfer data.  My secondary concern is obviously recovering functionality.  After that, I am considering installing Xubuntu on it if it is indeed unable to handle regular flavor Ubuntu (I don't really this is the problem but its safer I suppose)

Any ideas, suggestions, solutions?  Please Help!

P.S. I am fairly lacking in PC knowledge.  and also, wasn't sure where this should go.  General seemed appropriate.

Edit: Computer is considered toast at this point.  Able to extract HDD and use in an enclosure.  Little memory loss but otherwise functioning.  Working theory is cascade failure stemming from overloading the virtual memory.

---

