---
title: "12.04 Samba Behaviour Changes"
date: 2012-08-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by UhOhDaemon on 2012-08-23
I have a ubuntu file server running at home, I started on 10.04, went to 11.10 and had no problems. Yesterday I upgraded to 12.04 and have run into some issues with samba.

I have two shares which show odd behaviour:

[Incoming]
path = /raid/incoming
browsable = no
valid users = @users
write list = @users

[work]
path = /raid/work
guest ok = yes
write list = @users

Permissions are the same on each directory:

stew@Chinken:/raid$ls -alh
drwxrwxr-x 44 stew users 4.0K Aug 22 22:53 work
drwxrwxr-x 75 stew users 4.0K Aug 22 23:58 incoming

I have a user 'stew' which belongs to the @users group who can write to work but not incoming - he gets a permission error. This previously worked fine, he could write to both shares. My global settings are as follows:

```
Server role: ROLE_STANDALONE
[global]
        server string = %h
        map to guest = Bad User
        obey pam restrictions = Yes
        pam password change = Yes
        passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
        passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
        unix password sync = Yes
        syslog = 0
        log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
        max log size = 1000
        dns proxy = No
        usershare allow guests = Yes
        panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d
        idmap config * : backend = tdb
        create mask = 0775
        directory mask = 0775

```

I also note that for windows XP machines, a user/pass is required when bringing up the share list by browsing the network. typing guest/guest as the user/pass seems to work OK, but this is a changed behaviour. Before, users could see all the shares and they would only be required to enter a user/pass for shares with a 'valid users' or 'write users' settings. Windows7 still seems to work as expected in this regard although when I'm prompted for a password it wont accept valid smbuser user/passes. The weird thing is that on this windows7 machine the 'work' folder reads/writes fine without having to enter a password (using NTLM I'm guessing as the user/pass on the host is the same as the smbuser) but not 'incoming'.

Any ideas what's changed?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by UhOhDaemon on 2012-08-23
Managed to solve this by reading the Samba change notes.

[http://www.samba.org/samba/history/samba-3.6.0.html](http://www.samba.org/samba/history/samba-3.6.0.html)

> Samba 3.6 has adopted a number of improved security defaults that will
impact on existing users of Samba.

 client ntlmv2 auth = yes
 client use spnego principal = no
 send spnego principal = no

The impact of 'client ntlmv2 auth = yes' is that by default we will not
use NTLM authentication as a client.  This applies to the Samba client
tools such as smbclient and winbind, but does not change the separately
released in-kernel CIFS client.  To re-enable the poorer NTLM encryption
set '--option=clientusentlmv2auth=no' on your smbclient command line, or
set 'client ntlmv2 auth = no' in your smb.conf

Adding client ntlmv2 auth = no to my config has fixed the issue and it now functions like the old version (albeit with less security apparently?)

---

### Post by UhOhDaemon on 2012-08-23
Looks like I jumped the gun, still having the same problem. Any help appreciated here....

---

