---
title: "Need help with installing Nvidia driver and fixing this in General"
date: 2008-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Randall L. on 2008-10-23
Running Hardy Heron
I have a Geforce4: MX 420
When I type: sudo modprobe nvidia
it outputs "Not loading nvidia module; not used in /etc/X11/xorg.conf"

I have multiple xorg files?
look at screenshot. 

Any ideas?

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-10-23
That screenshot is too small (even after clicking on it) to make much out. 

But having several xorg.conf files is not a problems as long as only one is "xorg.conf"
The rest will likely have #'s after the "conf"-those are backups of previous configurations.

Try to enable your card from System > Admin > Hardware Drivers. If that doesn't work you can try to install the driver by entering > sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx

---

### Post by Randall L. on 2008-10-23
I tried both of those and neither worked. I don't know if something is wrong cause it seems in my backups of the xorg file is where the stuff i need is this is the xorg file:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection



That's all thats in there?

---

### Post by Randall L. on 2008-10-23
Can anyone tell me if my "xorg" file is missing stuff? and um any other ideas on getting the card to work properly. I thought I would also mention that when i enable it in the hardware devices and restart it stays something along the lines of "Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode" since it doesn't detect the card and asks me to manually configure the card. When i try it gives me close to zero options...so i'm kinda stuck?

---

### Post by TeXtonyx on 2008-10-23
I installed the Nvidia drive provided by Nvidia. It created a good
xorg.conf file, but the driver didn't stick. So I tried envyng and
that made the driver permanent and I used the xorg.conf file that
was created by Nvidia-settings. You can search for nvidia and
envyng and howtos for further information.

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-10-23
> **Randall L. said:**
> Can anyone tell me if my "xorg" file is missing stuff? and um any other ideas on getting the card to work properly. I thought I would also mention that when i enable it in the hardware devices and restart it stays something along the lines of "Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode" since it doesn't detect the card and asks me to manually configure the card. When i try it gives me close to zero options...so i'm kinda stuck?

xorg since hardy is changed and does not show all of the configuration data anymore. 

See the Ubuntu [video wiki]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video") for more on that.

---

