---
title: "default xorg.conf in 9.04"
date: 2009-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jfinkels on 2009-05-14
So the new default /etc/X11/xorg.conf file in 9.04 leaves me no information about the current state of my X server (see below).

If I want to change the defaut color depth of my X server, how would I do that?

Also, how can I change the graphics driver which X uses? And how do I know which driver it is using currently?

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Aaardwark on 2009-05-17
I think the general idea is that you should change all this with graphical tools in Ubuntu. Using defaults means other parts of the system decides what to use.

However you can change things in xorg.conf if you want to. In 8.04 on a laptop I fixed, I changed driver from intel to i810 in xorg. All you have to do is ad the lines the way they used to look (xorg overrides). You can still configure things with xorg.conf, but you don't have to.

Probing what hardware and drivers your using can't be that hard if your used to working in xorg.conf

---

### Post by jfinkels on 2009-05-18
> **Aaardwark said:**
> I think the general idea is that you should change all this with graphical tools in Ubuntu. Using defaults means other parts of the system decides what to use.

Does anyone know where those settings are stored though? I assume there is a file somewhere that keeps the actual configuration data for the X server, right? Where is that?

---

### Post by paradigm2 on 2009-05-18
> **jfinkels said:**
> Does anyone know where those settings are stored though? I assume there is a file somewhere that keeps the actual configuration data for the X server, right? Where is that?

This is actually a great question and I would be curious to know as well.  From what little info I have on this, the new xorg-server now auto-probes itself....this includes the adapter, screen, keyboard, mouse, etc.  There are ways to turn this off with a certain serverflag, or as mentioned, to override it.

---

### Post by mocha0range on 2009-06-05
Agreed. I've been trying to find a way to edit my synaptics driver settings for a few hours now, only to find that unless I edit it through system -> preferences -> mouse, I'm screwed.

I'm all for ease-of-configuration, but I would like some more granular control at times as well. Is that too much to ask for? :P

---

### Post by cabez0n on 2009-06-10
Yes, there's been some changes on xserver and I think xorg.conf is not being used anymore by default. The properties of the video settings are generated dinamically. 
I am trying to find more info on this but there doesn't seem to be a lot. 

Anyone else has some info on this ?

Salú

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-06-10
> **cabez0n said:**
> Yes, there's been some changes on xserver and I think xorg.conf is not being used anymore by default. The properties of the video settings are generated dinamically. 
I am trying to find more info on this but there doesn't seem to be a lot. 

Anyone else has some info on this ?

Salú

xrandr is used for configuring display setting these days :)
wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution

---

