---
title: "10.04, Cursor, Firefox, Laptop Freeze issue"
date: 2011-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2011-12-10
Hi All,
While using Firefox (or Mendeley),  I have found that the mouse cursor will not highlight text in the correct text area. The computer acts like it is freezing up. It is happening on TWO laptops running Ubuntu 10.04.  The tab button can move me around the screen but the cursor is locked out.  

It has occurred on two VERY STD laptops.  
1. Toshiba Satelite L305, 4 yrs old
2. Gateway, 2 yrs old

It has happened ONLY recently.  It seems like I have been hi-jacked but I keep all my software updated! When this occurs all I can do is 'Restart'.

Has anyone heard of such an odd thing? OR have any suggestions?
M

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2011-12-10
[SIZE=3]I saw a correction for this, and here it is:

1. Use bleachbit to clean the system.
2. Then do a power cycle.

Solved it for me.

P.S.
HOW TO POWER CYCLE


Shut down your computer, the proper way if possible.

For a notebook or laptop, remove the computer's battery and then un-plug its cord from the laptop.  

Router too.

Switch off all your high-speed Internet equipment and then un-plug it from its power source.

Wait for at least 30 seconds.

Re-connect your computer and Internet equipment in this specific order:

-Plug in your modem's power cord if you have high speed Internet. Give your modem time to get a sound Internet connection, which may take more than two minutes.
-Plug in your router, if you use one. Wait for the router's lights to come on to show it has a strong connection with the modem.
-Plug in your computer. For a laptop, you'll put the battery back in and then plug it in. Press the power button to turn it back on. Allow it to fully boot up, which it will now boot up normally. 

[/SIZE]

---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2011-12-10
Let me give it a shot...
Then I will let you know...
Thanks

---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2011-12-11
I think that did it!!!

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2011-12-11
> **oaxacamatt1 said:**
> I think that did it!!!

Well kudos to whomever it was that posted it for me.  Mine has been fixed for days now and am I glad.
:)

---

