---
title: "11.04 unbootable after gdm update"
date: 2011-06-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by artemeas on 2011-06-03
Yesterday I got an update in update-manager: gdm blabla 3.2... installed. restarted. And I see nooooooooooooothing after the boot screen (plymouth, default one) display stays blank, even caps-lock doesn't turn on its indicator on the keyboard. 
hdd activity indicator on the laptop doesn't blink, only power indicator is on...
the only way is to press and hold power button to turn it off. 
restart and I see the same picture........

I thought that's hdd, because yesterday ubuntu froze completely on a youtube video (adobe I hate you!)

so I turned laptop off and started again (before it froze I installed that gdm "security-"update) and saw the blank screen for the first time.

then I booted into "single" mode, manually starting X OR GDM gives me the same blank screen with frozen/unusable keyboard, caps-, numlock do not word, I can't switch virtual terminals...

so I've reinstalled the whole system an hour ago. Everything went well!!!!
I booted into clean 11.04 (except my configs, cuz I haven't formated /home partition). Then I restored my ppa's (/etc/apt) that I backed up from the 'single' mode... updated apt database, restored all of my backuped apps (dpkg --get-selections >... dpgk --set-selections <...)
an hour to update everything. installed ati driver, RESTART, and what I see? BLANK SCREEN RIGHT AFTER PLYMOUTH.
startx from single mode = blank screen
gdm start from single mode = blank screen

I can't use ubuntu, PLEASE HELP ME fixing that crap.

I downloaded yesterday gdm blabla3, blabla3.1 and blabla3.2

downgraded the crapped gdm-0ubuntu3.2 to 3 and to 3.1 NO DIFFERENCE. I JUST GET BLANK SCREEN.

before restoring the apps everything worked. 

and yesterday THE ONLY INSTALLED UPDATE WAS gdm

there are absolutely NO ERRORS in /var/log/*
I viewed every file from that dir, that was created at boot attempt...
no errors, nothing, just blank screen

---

### Post by DinoT1985 on 2011-06-03
Sorry to hear that man. GDM's update messed up my boot too. It booted me into Classic so I had to go about forcing Unity on boot. 

Can you boot from the Live CD, mount your HDD and disable the ATI drivers please and then reboot.

---

### Post by artemeas on 2011-06-03
sudo /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh from recovery mode (grub, no liveusb) did it. 
Thanks dude.

hmm.. I just found the same issue at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/447226](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/447226) but it's 2,5 years old

---

