---
title: "10.04  boot up problems"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-05-06
I am not sure if this is on this thread or if it has been mentioned or what, so I will post what I have and see what you all think.
My system runs fine, I have an Nvidia card and when I boot up I guess it would be Plymouth displays some stuff;
several lines and it goes by too quick for me to be able to read much of it.

Then it goes back to normal and the login in screen appears like normal.
Everything is normal except for the black display and the stuff that is displayed before the login screen appears.
Even with this, my system boots up in under 20 seconds at last check.

Is there anything I should/could do to get the errors or information lines or whatever they are to not show up?
I can live with it, but I just don't think it is meant to do this.

Thanks in advance. 
BTW I installed Lucid during beta (I think) and have kept up with the updates and all appears smooth to me. 
I have a super nice custom grub2 screen.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-06
Post moved to it's own thread. The sticky is not a support thread.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-05-07
Thanks!
When I just booted up I could see "starting apparmour profile" or something to that effect.
And there were several lines with a dot the the left of each line like you would have in a document instead of numbers like this:
1) info1
2) info2
3) info3
I didn't get a chance to read any more of it.

It was displaying this a while back, but it went away I believe and now it's back.
It's not causing anything bad and it just looks like it is displaying info. upon startup.
Just curious as to why it does this and if there is a fix.
Thanks!

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-05-08
When I booted up today, I noticed that the last line said "checking battery state."
Could it think that I have a laptop instead of a PC maybe?

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-05-08
I found this command "sudo aa-status" and here is the output which looks good to me:

```
sudo aa-status
apparmor module is loaded.
11 profiles are loaded.
11 profiles are in enforce mode.
   /sbin/dhclient3
   /usr/bin/evince
   /usr/bin/evince-previewer
   /usr/bin/evince-thumbnailer
   /usr/lib/NetworkManager/nm-dhcp-client.action
   /usr/lib/connman/scripts/dhclient-script
   /usr/lib/cups/backend/cups-pdf
   /usr/sbin/cupsd
   /usr/sbin/mysqld-akonadi
   /usr/sbin/tcpdump
   /usr/share/gdm/guest-session/Xsession
0 profiles are in complain mode.
2 processes have profiles defined.
2 processes are in enforce mode :
   /sbin/dhclient3 (770) 
   /usr/sbin/cupsd (863) 
0 processes are in complain mode.
0 processes are unconfined but have a profile defined.
$ 
```It may be that I don't have a problem, I do not know. 
The display just does not look normal (to me) at bootup.

Thanks

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-05-17
Problem solved! I had made a change to /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme and put a line in it from GRUB 1.97 in my GRUB 1.98 file.

I had added this to it:

Just below these 3 commands
[COLOR=Red]# check for usable backgrounds
use_bg=true
if [ "$GRUB_TERMINAL_OUTPUT" = "gfxterm" ] ; then[/COLOR]

I had added this line:
         [COLOR=Red]for i in  {/boot/grub,/usr/share/images/desktop-base,/usr/share/images/grub}/xxxxxx.{png,tga,jpg}  ; do

[COLOR=Black]and also had added my colors after this line:
[/COLOR][/COLOR][COLOR=Red]if background_image  `make_system_path_relative_to_its_root ${bg}` ; then
[COLOR=Black]This is what caused the lines to display upon bootup.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=Black]Thanks to [COLOR=Blue]_drs305_[/COLOR] for pointing this out. No one would have known about this error if I had not posted it in another thread and [COLOR=Blue]_drs305_[/COLOR] pointed out the conflict with the versions.

It is (now) and should have been like this at the top:
[/COLOR][/COLOR]WALLPAPER="[COLOR=Blue]/usr/share/images/desktop-base/moreblue-orbit-grub.png[/COLOR]"
   COLOR_NORMAL="black/black"
   COLOR_HIGHLIGHT="magenta/black"                      

Here I was hard coding it, when it is supposed to be a parameter that gets passed from the top of the file. 

I guess all I can say is -  You live and learn!

Resolved!

---

