---
title: "11.04 restricted extras - ttf-mscorefonts-installer"
date: 2011-08-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-08-24
I have just installed Ubuntu restricted extras to a machine, but at the stage of being asked to accept the MS terms, I fumbled the mouse, apparently proceeding with refusing the conditions, and found that the restricted extras was then installed, with the 'ttf-mscorefonts-installer' actually shown as installed, but the MS fonts are apparently not available. Not a great surprise because I had I think refused the acceptance.

However, this was a mistake and I actually do want MS fonts in that machine, for now at least.

I have subsequenly tried to get the (debconf??) licence  window  back again, unsuccessfully, and have also used synaptec to 'completely' uninstall ubuntu restricted extras, also the fonts installer too, and reinstall the package, but the situation persists that the restricted extras and the  ttf-mscorefonts-installer are now still shown as installed, but still no MS fonts ( :-(  :-)  )

but I want the fonts....

I notice that in my subsequent installs of ubuntu restricted extras, a debconf window fleetingly appears and then goes. It is as if the licence refusal is not being reset.

Any idea where I can find this and reset the licence question again?

tia

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-08-24
sudo apt-get purge ttf-mscorefonts-installer

Then re-install.

You'll need to use the Tab key to navigate around the options.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-08-24
You could also simply try reconfiguring the package (if you didn't try that already):
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure ttf-mscorefonts-installer
```

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-08-24
> **mcduck said:**
> You could also simply try reconfiguring the package

I tried that before I posted. Didn't seem to work. Don't know why. Purging definitely works, though.

---

### Post by sbarrera on 2011-09-02
The bug is already discussed there:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1350489.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1350489.html)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/msttcorefonts/+bug/431217](https://bugs.launchpad.net/debian/+source/msttcorefonts/+bug/431217)

yet, no solutions seems to be found (

---

### Post by gmargo on 2011-09-02
Reconfiguring the package does not work because the EULA is prompted by the **postinst** script.  So you must either purge/install or use a reinstall option in order to re-run that script.

The font download can be worked around.  I use a local cache of the *.exe font files, and force the installer to use it with this method: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10427959&postcount=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10427959&postcount=5)

---

