---
title: "12.04 Cairo-Dock &amp; Nautilus need to be restarted on every boot"
date: 2012-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-08-19
Well, I have been putting this off for a while.  cant find any other people with the problem, which seems odd.

I have 2 systems, plus my sister in laws, and my friends.
(4 machines total)
I set them all up the same way, and they all have the same issue.

Running 12.04 Ubuntu, with Cairo-Dock. (No Unity)


Every time you log in...

1. Nautilus is not responding correctly.
     Right click on desktop does nothing.
     No icons visible on desktop.
(Solution is to restart nautilus after EVERY login)

2. Most of the time, Cairo-Dock does not load correctly.
     Frozen, or not all of the docks start up.
     ie, main dock at the bottom loads, but not the top dock.
(Solution is to restart Cairo after every login)

Every once in a while, I search or solutions, and it looks like no one else has the exact same issues?

Any thoughts?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-08-20
Well, my crude attempt at a workaround failed.

Tried to write a script to force quite Cairo and Nautilus at startup, then re-launch.

Does not seem to work.

Not sure if it was my script, or if it just does not solve the issue.

Does no one else have this issue?

I figured it was just me when it was just the 1 computer, but now its 4.

Gotta be other people out there using Cairo instead of unity...

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-09-12
*Bump

---

### Post by newb85 on 2012-09-12
I've never experienced this.  I've installed Cairo-Dock, and I've run it a few times in the place of Unity, but I found Unity Dash's search functionality too handy to abandon, so Unity has been my main DE.

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-09-13
Yeah, I guess most people do not have this issue.

You gotta figure some people do though, since all 4 of my setups have the same problem.

Its not every time though, but it is most of the time.

When I log in, it can go one of the following ways...

1. Everything loaded perfectly. (Good to go)
2. Only some parts of Cairo load. (Quit Cairo and Re-launch)
3. No parts of Cairo load. (Quit Cairo and Re-launch)
4. No icons on desktop. (Quit Nautilus and Re-launch)
5. No right click menu on desktop. (Quit Nautilus and Re-launch)
6. Any combination of the above 2-5.

I have customized Compiz quit a bit, but I did not disable Unity through CCSM.

All I did was a clean install, then install Cairo, then log in selecting a Cairo session.
Then configured desktop cube, cube atlantis, etc etc.

So for the most part, this is kindof an "out of the box" issue I am having.
And honestly it could be 2 completely separate issues.

But since the behavior of nautilus and cairo seems to be identical, it seems like their may be a common cause for both issues.

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-12-06
*Bump

Still no fix?

It seems like nautilus is working better, but it still does it sometimes.

Cairo still has the issue for about 9 out of 10 logins.

I added system-monitor to my dock, so I can force quite and relaunch them whenever they are screwed up, but I don't think thats much of a solution.

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-12-21
12.10 and still a problem.

This is really starting to drive me nuts.

I love cairo-dock

There has to be some kind of fix for this.
Right?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-12-21
Do you have Nautilus set to handle the desktop in the Gnome Tweak Tool ? 
You won't have any context menu or ability to handle files otherwise.

---

### Post by Derek Karpinski on 2012-12-23
......

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-12-24
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> Do you have Nautilus set to handle the desktop in the Gnome Tweak Tool ? 
You won't have any context menu or ability to handle files otherwise.

Yeah, it is setup correctly.

Everything works fine, but most of the time, when I log in, I have to force quit and restart nautilus and/or cairo before they work correctly.

Thanks for the suggestion though.

---

### Post by ias on 2013-11-07
Hi, yes CD quite often begins to show problems after a long session and wake up from sleep etc. Have you found a simple re-start function to start it afresh?

---

