---
title: "Cannot set default resolution and refresh rate of my screen."
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jot-z on 2011-04-30
Hi!

I hope I'll find solution to my problem here. I have been searching for tips on the Internet for 3 days with no result. I have also tried to ask on IRC support channel but only one person wanted to help me.

My problem is basic thing. I can't select default refreshing rate and resolution of my screen. Believe me, 50 Hz hurts eyes and causes headache. Ubuntu doesn't recognize my screen :( I used to work on 1280x1024  resolution with 80 Hz refreshing rate. 1152x864 60Hz is max I can select  in Nvidia X Server and Ubuntu Screen Properties.

I have tried changing options in Nvidia X Server, Ubuntu Screen Properties and tried xrandr commands (these ended with xrandr: *Failed to get size of gamma for output default.* or *Can't open display*).

I'm not sure what it is but I guess it might help:[INDENT]# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 270.29  (buildd@allspice)  Fri Feb 25 14:42:07 UTC 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-1"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 55.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GT 430"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

[/INDENT]Btw, I'm using Ubuntu 11.04. My graphic card is GeForce 430 GT, screen - Acer AL1916.

---

### Post by rfry11 on 2011-04-30
Open up your Nvidia settings by searching for "Nvidia", then open the Nvidia X Server Settings.

Go to X Server Display Configuration, then click on your monitor. Under resolution, switch it to your monitor's resolution, then change the refresh rate to something you're more comfortable. 

Click apply, then Save to X Configuration File.

---

### Post by Jot-z on 2011-05-01
> **Jot-z said:**
> I used to work on 1280x1024  resolution with 80 Hz refreshing rate. 1152x864 60Hz is max I can select  in Nvidia X Server and Ubuntu Screen Properties.

[IMG]https://dl-web.dropbox.com/get/Photos/Ubuntu-001.png?w=9cd73a96[/IMG]

Unfortunately, there's no my monitor's resolution (1280x1024). Auto resolution is 1024x768.

---

### Post by rfry11 on 2011-05-01
I'm sorry, wow I feel a bit stupid.

Try going into the Nvidia Settings application, and click on your display's options. On mine it's DFP-0. Ensure that Flat Panel Scaling is turned on. 

If that still doesn't allow you to set the resolution you're looking for, I'm out of ideas.

---

