---
title: "9.04 root user problem"
date: 2009-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-08-08
hi,
got a strange problem today
i switched on and logged in as the root user
it does this ok, but i only get a completely white screen, not menus, desktop or anything
so cannt do anything
all other users work ok, apart from obviously they cannot perform and admin on the computer
so how do i get it fixed?????
help please

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-08-08
You need to learn sudo

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-08-08
well, i have used sudo before
but only with reference to what others have suggested
i cannot use it in any other accounts, except my root account usually
so how does it help me restore my root account????
yes, maybe i should have another account with rights
but a bit late now

failing that, how do i reinstall without losing everything so the system works
why has it suddenly only given me a white screen when usually it works fine

---

### Post by yeeeev on 2009-08-08
There are very few tasks that you cannot do using sudo or gksu.
There's really no need to login as root. Logging in as root is a huge security risk.

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-08-08
ok, yes i know that, but how do i restore the root user anyway
without it i cannot do certain things
and besides that, why shouldn't i have it working!
it has a purpose, or why do we have it in the first place!

just want to know how to do it thats all
not a lesson in why, what, how

---

### Post by garikaib on 2009-08-08
In Linux there is a maxim " Never do routine work as root!" By default Ubuntu is a setuid system i.e the root user is disabled by default and that without reason. I have heard a lot of people say " I just did this and the screen went blank..." or something like that. The reason is they fail to realise one thing : root is not an administrator. root is root! Unlike in Windows where you cannot format the boot drive in Linux you can even if by accident. The chances of making the mistake increase if you work as root often. Anyway good luck! And remember the lesson.

---

### Post by sasho_zl on 2009-08-08
And it is against  Ubuntu and forum policy to login as root. If you want to be root choose another distro.

---

### Post by garikaib on 2009-08-08
Try selecting the rescue broken system option that appears when you boot from your installation cd.

---

### Post by lswb on 2009-08-08
Have you enabled a root login and given root a password? That is what I am inferring from your post. If so, as something to try, login as a regular user to get the system started. Then <ctrl><shift><F1> to get to a VT. Login as root on the VT. You should be able to use cli tools now. If you need a desktop try the command
startx -- :1

My advice is to then set up a regular user with admin privledges using sudo and use that for your admin needs. Root login is not recommended or supported by ubuntu and it will be difficult to get any help from the ubuntu community concerning root login.

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-08-08
ok, maybe i dont mean root
i mean the administrator
thanks for suggestion, but not sure i can do it from cd, i upgraded from 8.04 so only have that disk

---

### Post by harry2006 on 2009-08-08
i guess you are not supposed/required to use root if you are making use of sudo... no linux geek will ever try to do that[you do that only in extreme cases, where sudo is of no help]

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-08-08
the 8.04 cd seems to have no rescue on it

the command to get the VT login does nothing

any suggestions?

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2009-08-08
There is probably something wrong with the admin user's settings. The config files are stored in the user's home directory(/home/username).

You can boot in recovery mode and:
[list=i]
[*] backup the user's home directory and create a new one:
```
mv /home/username /home/username-backup
mkdir /home/username
shopt -u dotglob
cp -R /etc/skel/* /home/username
chown -R username:username /home/username
reboot
```

EDIT: replace username with the user's log in name (i.e. tonyuk123).

once you can login as the admin user you can restore your data/settings from /home/username-backup

OR

[*] add a new or an existing user to the admin group:
create the user:
```
adduser username
```

add it to the admin group:
```
adduser username admin
```
```
reboot
```

[/list]

---

### Post by harry2006 on 2009-08-08
> **tonyuk123 said:**
> ok, maybe i dont mean root
i mean the administrator
thanks for suggestion, but not sure i can do it from cd, i upgraded from 8.04 so only have that disk
that should do the job as well

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-08-08
Ok
good suggestions all round
but i have no admin rights on any of the users that i can login with
yes i can use sudo
but it wants a password, not the users or the admins password !
so how do i actually do some of the things your suggesting as if i am the administrator

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2009-08-08
> **tonyuk123 said:**
> Ok
good suggestions all round
but i have no admin rights on any of the users that i can login with
yes i can use sudo
but it wants a password, not the users or the admins password !
so how do i actually do some of the things your suggesting as if i am the administrator

You have to reboot the computer in Recovery Mode and execute the commands in a root shell.

You can select the Recovery Mode option from the Grub menu.
(you may have to press the Escape key during bootup in order to see the boot menu.)

---

### Post by tonyuk123 on 2009-08-08
ok thanks everyone
got a new account with admin rights now

just got to find out how to change screen resolution
seem to have an nvidia x server problem

---

