---
title: "8.10 Can't access hardly anything"
date: 2009-02-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nicholas.alipaz on 2009-02-09
After the most recent updates I performed, I cannot access hardly anything.  Most of my programs simply don't open when clicking on the menuitems.  It seems like it could be a permission issue but I am not so sure.

First off, I can't open a terminal.  When I open FileZilla it tells me it can't write to /home/myname/.filezilla/filezilla.xml (or something like that).  Then whenever I try to open my home folder or even just the Computer folder I get a blank box with only an x button in the corner.

Any ideas why this might be happening?  Was there some bug in the releases that were done this January?  Did something in the updates alter permissions on my system maybe?

It may be worth noting that I did 81 updates.  I had to put some of my updates off for the last month.

Please, any assistance would be a great help!

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-02-09
sounds like a permissions problem. Were you running graphical applications as root ? ie sudo nautilus or sudo firefox or some such ?

I advise you boot to recovery mode, this will be command line only and then 

chmod -R user.user ~user

where user = your log in name

then reboot ...

---

### Post by nicholas.alipaz on 2009-02-11
I appreciate the potential fix... After a restart it seems I can't get back in, even via recovery mode.  The boot made me do an fsck and now I am unsure my important data is even still intact.

I have a live cd and was able to mount my drive but found that there was no longer any /home directory.  Everything else seemed to be there.  I really need to try to save the data that was in there.

However, on a restart I no longer seem to be able to mount the aforementioned drive.

I want to save the data then reinstall.  I have an external usb harddrive I can use for the transfer.  Is there any reason I wouldn't see the /home folder?  I am fairly confident that it wasn't on a separate partition.

Here are a few outputs for reference:

fdisk -l:
```
/dev/sda1 Linux
/dev/sda2 Extended
/dev/sda5 Linux swap / Solaris
```

mount:
> none of the above drives seem to be mounted

There are some files in /lost+found, but none of them are directories.  So I doubt my /home folder is there.

Any advice is appreciated.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-02-11
Sorry to hear you are having problems. Hard to tell from your post, but you may be having some issues with your hard drive.

Boot the live CD.

Make a mount point :

```
sudo mkdir /media/tmp
```

Mount your root partition :

```
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /media/tmp
```

You home should now be at 

/media/tmp/home/user_name

where user_name is your log in name.

Post any error messages you may get.

If the data is not there, then we are talking data recovery and you may wish to look into photorec (it is in the repos)

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/PhotoRec](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/PhotoRec)

---

### Post by nicholas.alipaz on 2009-02-11
OK, finally got the hd to mount.  It is mounted at /media/tmp.

However, when I look in /media/tmp/ I don't see a home directory.  I see everything else, but not home.

I really don't know where it went, all I can think is that it got thrown in the /lost+found, but I don't see any directories in there, only files.

I sure hope it wasn't deleted.  Anyhow, please let me know how you would suggest proceeding as I am really not sure where to go from here.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-02-11
looks like we have a problem then. I did not see a separate /home partition on your 

fdisk -l

you can try looking at other partitions, just unmount and mount the others.

If you can not find your home directory, time to look at data recovery.

this should be performed from a live CD and I suggest you start with photorec.

---

### Post by nicholas.alipaz on 2009-02-11
Thanks again.  I guess I will move on about trying to recover the data, hopefully the software can find it.  I am not sure how to compile photorec's tarball and don't see any instructions on their site.  Could anyone give me some basic instructions on compiling it?  I assume everything else would be the same as what they outlined in there windows tutorial, except performing the actions from a linux terminal rather than windows command prompt.

---

### Post by nicholas.alipaz on 2009-02-11
actually nm.  I found it.  If I have more issues I will post back.

---

### Post by maestrobwh1 on 2009-02-11
This is a day late and a dollar short... but I always back up my install with clonezilla-live before doing any major upgrading.  In the event of a catastropic failure, you can restore the image.

I have had luck just booting things into a different distro.  I have been able to read data with one distro and not another, so try booting Knoppix or DSL.  

Something you can try before you totally give up and I am not sure if it will even work, but you could pull your drive, connect it to a usb adapter, and plug it into a Windows box that has IFSdrive installed.  It is an ext2/3 driver for Windows.  You could then try to run some data recovery app (lots of free ones out there) from there.  This is a TOTAL shot in the dark and I suspect it has little chance of saving you, but before you decide to overwrite or toss the drive, you could try it.  I suspect the way the data is written, a win app won't be able to figure out how to read deleted files from an ext2/3 drive.

If your data got corrupted and if fsck ran, it perhaps stuck it in a fsckXXXX file, but I would have no idea how to even open/read that.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-02-11
The photorec package is in the ubuntu repositories, so you can install it with apt-get 9do not recall if it is part of or separate from testdisk).

Instructions on how to recover data are on the link I gave you earlier.

---

### Post by nicholas.alipaz on 2009-02-11
I have tried:
```
sudo apt-get install photorec
```
But it doesn't seem to find it in the repositories.  Which repository is it in exactly?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-02-11
I believe it is in universe.

Personally I suggest you use synaptic, enable the repositories, then use the package search for photorec or testdisk.

---

### Post by nicholas.alipaz on 2009-02-11
Using the live cd and enabling the universe repository I still don't find either of the programs in the list...

Does it have something to do with me being on the live cd?  When I hit reload in synaptic it downloads 48 files.  Should it be getting more with the universe repository enabled?  If so, then why won't the live cd grab them.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-02-12
It appears photorec is included in testdisk

```
sudo apt-get install testdisk
```

---

### Post by nicholas.alipaz on 2009-02-12
Thanks, I got it installed and am running the program now.  It looks like it will take a few hours to complete.

I set it up to recover to my external hd, so it won't overwrite any info it will try to recover.  It has already recovered about 5 files, nothing I really recognize yet but I am waiting on it to start recovering jpg/jpegs.  There are a number of photos I need to recover.

Thanks again and I will likely start using clonezilla as suggested.

---

