---
title: "11.04 : Chrome Stable - Unity Launcher Won't Restore Window"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Crucias on 2011-04-29
I have Ubuntu x64 and the corresponding Chrome Stable.

When i minimize Chrome to the Unity launcher, and then click the Chrome icon, it opens a new window, not the existing one. If i use alt+tab i can access the old ones.

How can i make Chrome play nice with unity? Firefox sucks, really would like my Chrome back.

Chris

---

### Post by gsarngad on 2011-04-29
> **Crucias said:**
> I have Ubuntu x64 and the corresponding Chrome Stable.

When i minimize Chrome to the Unity launcher, and then click the Chrome icon, it opens a new window, not the existing one. If i use alt+tab i can access the old ones.

How can i make Chrome play nice with unity? Firefox sucks, really would like my Chrome back.

Chris

I've admittedly only spent about 10 minutes on unity this morning, but I didn't observe that behavior.  I had the opposite problem--when I minimized four Chrome windows then clicked the launcher icon all of them restore without my being able to choose which I wanted.  That's actually the reason I was looking through the forums this morning.  I have to assume there's a way to choose which window to restore, but I can't find it.

---

### Post by timwebster9 on 2011-05-09
I have this problem too - clicking the Chrome launcher on the Unity bar opens a new window instead of restoring an existing one.

---

### Post by Zealoct on 2011-06-05
> **gsarngad said:**
> I've admittedly only spent about 10 minutes on unity this morning, but I didn't observe that behavior.  I had the opposite problem--when I minimized four Chrome windows then clicked the launcher icon all of them restore without my being able to choose which I wanted.  That's actually the reason I was looking through the forums this morning.  I have to assume there's a way to choose which window to restore, but I can't find it.

it seems that unity would not let u choose but pop up all same windows if all of your windows are minimized, same thing would happen if u minimize more that one terminals or firefoxs

but my problem is same with others...

---

### Post by amfavs on 2011-06-05
Hey all. If you install the chrome from the Chrome website rather than the Software Center this should fix this problem. 

Just google "Chrome" in 11.04 and select your OS.

Hope this helps.

---

