---
title: "Trouble with X configuration on non-standard installation"
date: 2007-04-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ranarion on 2007-04-08
Hello everyone,

I needed to set up a minimalist KDE on an old test machine. For that, I started with a Ubuntu 6.06 LTS Server installation from the Alternate Installation CD. 

In X, I am now having two problems:

[LIST=1]
[*]Applications seem to be having trouble allocating colours. If, for example, I try to start aterm or rxvt from an xterm, I get messages along the lines of "can't load color "White", colorID=0, (29)" and the programs won't start. This also affects aptitude and dpkg-reconfigure (which start, but don't show colors). All KDE applications, including Konsole, work fine. The color depth is set to 24 bit. I have tried to correct this via dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg, but had no success.

[*]The other problem is that my (105-key German) keyboard does not honour the AltGr key anymore, making it impossible for me to type p|pes, tildes and so on. Do I need to set an exotic option in X.org's configuration? On other machines, this had worked just fine with the defaults.
[/LIST]

Many thanks for all hints!

---

### Post by ffxr on 2007-04-08
dont know if ll be able to help.. but 

you could answer a few questions, which may aid the troubleshooting process...

what are the exact specs of the machine? what graphics card is in there? & what drivers are you using for it? and can you pls post your xorg.conf

---

### Post by ranarion on 2007-04-12
OK, no problem:

**Hardware**

Intel Pentium III @ 500 MHz
64 MB RAM (installation ran in low memory mode)
ATI XPert 98

**Software configuration**

Ubuntu 6.06 LTS
installed from alternate CD
additionally, I installed the following: xserver-xorg, xinit, xfonts-base, kdebase

I'll spare you the lengthy xorg.conf, I have not yet altered it, so it is still the default one generated by the installer.

---

