---
title: "Compiz Fusion preventing login"
date: 2008-12-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Toribor on 2008-12-23
I was messing with settings in Compiz Fusion and I royally ruined something. When I log in my entire screen flashes oddly and I have to perform a hard reboot to get anywhere. Is there a way I can disable compiz fusion and simply set compiz as the window manager from a terminal? I can get to the logon screen okay, but I cannot get anywhere past that, even in Ubuntu recovery mode.

Thanks in advance for help!

---

### Post by Toribor on 2008-12-23
Bump. Please, I'd really like to avoid reformatting simply because my window manager messed up... I can't use Linux if little things like this bring everything down.

---

### Post by Toribor on 2008-12-24
Double bump, reeeally would like some advice on this...

---

### Post by SamNSane on 2008-12-24
Did you try selecting a session (at the login screen, instead of logging on) and choosing Failsafe Gnome session?

If that doesn't work, you can always use this command from the terminal:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

That's going to reset everything (display-wise) to default, so you can start over from scratch with configuration. If you were using restricted drivers those will no longer be in use until you reinstall them.

---

### Post by Toribor on 2008-12-27
Unfortunately reconfiguring xorg.conf did not fix it and I cannot log into the Failsafe GNOME either. All I can access that appears helpful is the Failsafe terminal (which i used to run the command you posted) Any other last ditch efforts to save my OS before I reformat?

---

### Post by exploder on 2008-12-27
Run "sudo apt-get remove compiz", once you get logged back in you can fix things how they were.

---

### Post by SamNSane on 2008-12-28
> **Toribor said:**
> Unfortunately reconfiguring xorg.conf did not fix it and I cannot log into the Failsafe GNOME either. All I can access that appears helpful is the Failsafe terminal (which i used to run the command you posted) Any other last ditch efforts to save my OS before I reformat?

I'm really sorry to hear that you're having so much trouble. So reverting to standard Open Source drivers and X configuration had no effect whatsoever? If you're to the "vesa" drivers, I would think that you would at least get a minimally usable low resolution desktop. Insofar as I know, the system shouldn't even be trying to use compiz at that point. But it sure sounds (from the flashing description) as though you've got a bad interaction between drivers and something in the desktop manager going on.

Which version of Ubuntu are you running? What is your video subsystem? (These are both questions I should have asked at the beginning.) Is your xorg.conf really being returned to a basic state? In Ubuntu 8.04 or 8.10 it should be REALLY minimal, more or less like this one from my notebook computer:

```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes   "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


```

(Note that there may be a couple of entries there that are specific to a notebook-type installation.)

Do you have other user accounts on the system? If so, you should try to log on under those, but I suppose you would have thought of that already if it were a possibility.

It may be a good idea when setting up a new system to create a backup account with administrative privileges for just such occasions as this.

Another thing you might try is using aptitude or apt-get from the terminal to install an alternative desktop to the system. If that is successful you could try logging in under the alternative desktop manager. I think that, since it would be used as a temporary alternative desktop, you might want to go with a lightweight one, like xfce4. It's in the repositories and wouldn't add a lot of extra weight to the system.

These are unfamiliar waters for me, too. I've experimented with these recovery options and had them work for me, but I've only been at it since about late September.

I still can't imagine what in Compiz could have wrecked the desktop enough to prevent even reconfiguration of X from working. I am aware that making manual changes to the way the plugins are implemented can wreak havoc. Something to remember when you get around to working with it again.

I hope you're going to find a solution. Only you can weigh the effort involved in a complete re-installation vs. continuing to try to fix this, but the fixing process can be very educational. It's true, too, that a recovered Ubuntu system, due to the modularity of its design, is much more likely to be a solid system than a recovered Windows system. One reason for that is that, in Ubuntu, at least you don't have a messed up registry to contend with.

I'll keep watching this thread just in case I might be able to help. But for now I'm just scratching my head.

Good luck!

---

