---
title: "12.04 LTS How to increace ubuntu core processes priority permanently?"
date: 2013-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ondrej.takacs on 2013-11-22
My problem is: ubuntu often runs very, very slow while I use Firefox or other high demanding programs. By very, very slow I mean, that I can't do anything: move cursor, ctrl+alt+f2 and so on, for 5 to 30 minutes.

How I want to solve it: increase process priority of core Ubuntu processes permanently. In this way I should always be able to at last switch to console and kill the slow application. Is it possible? Or is there any other permanent solution?

My notebook specification:
AMD E-350 Processor × 2, 1,6Ghz
2GB Ram

Thanks for any answer

---

### Post by jCjQszKMO5JH on 2013-11-22
For "another permanent solution," I would consider going with a lighter flavor for that laptop. The E-350 is a very low end processor with a weak integrated GPU, and my guess is that it is struggling with the Compiz effects in Unity. Try creating a Live USB for Xubuntu (just as a starting point) and see if your performance is better.

---

### Post by ondrej.takacs on 2013-11-24
Thank you, I will consider using xubuntu in the future. Now it would take too much time to change OS and set all programs and services again, especially the programming environment. 

I'm quite disappointed that Ubuntu gives all system resources to some application with no way out of it. Even old MS Windows XP could multitask effectively with single core processor, but Ubuntu sometimes can't manage it with two cores.

Speaking of the cores, is there way to reserve one core to the Ubuntu processes and leave only one core for other applications? This should solve the problem.

---

