---
title: "10.04 Missing Power Managment Buttons"
date: 2010-07-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Firedrake445 on 2010-07-06
Quite frequently, when I boot up ubuntu, the suspend and hibernate buttons will be missing and the alsa stuff wont work. When I select shutdown or restart or log out from the power menu ( the one that's missing the 2 
buttons) it only logs off the user. I've tried reinstalling the kernel and updating grub for a solution to no avail. The only way to shutdown the system when this occurs is through a sudo halt command in terminal. I may have to use the command a few times until the computer will boot with sound and all of the suspend/hibernate buttons in place. It seems that whatever is wrong is causing both the missing buttons and the no sound issue. Any idea what could be causing this or how to fix it?

---

### Post by Michael Wentzell on 2010-07-06
Hello,
 your question is being analyzed by the Ubuntu Answerers. Please follow these instructions:

[LIST]
[*]Take a screen shot and post it on this thread
[*]Save and post an error log on this thread.
[*]wait for me to reply for further instructions
[/LIST]
Thanks and have a nice day. :D

---

### Post by Firedrake445 on 2010-07-06
Funny that as soon as I need the bug to occur, it doesn't. As soon as it occurs I'll get a screen shot. And How can I get an error log of the issue?

---

### Post by Firedrake445 on 2010-07-09
Okay I was able to recreate the problem and produce a screen shot of the missing buttons.

---

