---
title: "12.04 Shuts down randomly"
date: 2013-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ravikanth1988 on 2013-06-16
[COLOR=#000000]Laptop: Linux X200 Tablet. with Ubuntu 12.04
Some times the laptop shutsdown randomly and displays the following screens:[/COLOR][ATTACH=CONFIG]243850[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]243851[/ATTACH][ATTACH=CONFIG]243852[/ATTACH]

Did memtest. After 5 passes I see no error at all.

One of the other supposition is that it is happening due to heat. I have occasionally had the laptop shutdown within minutes after it started up. 
I have  feeling that it is happening because of sudden movements but when I test it does not seem to be so. I have no clue on what is happening. Please help.

Ravikanth

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2013-06-16
Did you look into the system log file after such an unexpected shutdown? The log file may contain a hint on what happened.

---

### Post by user_of_gnomes on 2013-06-16
What are the system temperatures when it shuts down? Do you have an ATI video card?

---

### Post by carboi82 on 2013-06-16
It looks like its choking when trying to initialize your network card. Are you able to boot from a live distro by cd or usb flash drive?

---

### Post by ravikanth1988 on 2013-06-23
> **2F4U said:**
> Did you look into the system log file after such an unexpected shutdown? The log file may contain a hint on what happened.
HOw do I look at the log file?

---

### Post by ravikanth1988 on 2013-06-23
> **user_of_gnomes said:**
> What are the system temperatures when it shuts down? Do you have an ATI video card?
The last shut down temperatures are 47*C. I dont know if I have  a ATI video card.

> **carboi82 said:**
> It looks like its choking when trying to initialize your network card. Are you able to boot from a live distro by cd or usb flash drive?
I havent tried that but since this happens only occasionally I doubt whether i would be able to test it well.

Also, I just went to the lenovo service centre where they ran diagnostics and determined that there is no problem in the hardware.

---

### Post by howefield on 2013-06-23
> **ravikanth1988 said:**
> HOw do I look at the log file?

Search the dash for system log, the icon should appear after about the first 3 letters..

---

### Post by ravikanth1988 on 2013-06-23
Please find the system log file at [http://paste.ubuntu.com/5794346/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5794346/)

The system shutdown all of a sudden at 8:39 give or take a minute. Please let me know what is happening. Thanks

---

