---
title: "11.04 - Substitute for CPU scaling applet?"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by davidcmc on 2011-04-29
Since the new Unity in Ubuntu 11.04 doesn't work with applets, like GNOME, I've lost an useful applet to choose the operating clock of my CPU as well as power profiles (Performance, Conservative, On Demand etc.).

I've looked into Ubuntu Software Center but couldn't find anything similar.

Any advise?

Thanks.

--David

---

### Post by davidcmc on 2011-04-29
Nobody?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-04-29
> **davidcmc said:**
> Since the new Unity in Ubuntu 11.04 doesn't work with applets, like GNOME, I've lost an useful applet to choose the operating clock of my CPU as well as power profiles (Performance, Conservative, On Demand etc.).

I've looked into Ubuntu Software Center but couldn't find anything similar.

Any advise?

Thanks.

--David


[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/01/t...cator-applets/]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2011/01/the-omg-guide-to-must-have-indicator-applets/")

---

### Post by davidcmc on 2011-04-29
Thank you.

---

### Post by virtual reality on 2011-05-01
hi.

I'm sorry but I'm stuck / can't follow.

In maverick I had the cpu indicator (with the options to change the freq), now in natty I don't.

Tried to find sth appropriate in Ubuntu Software Center, but remain stuck. :-s

Noob-friendly instruction kindly requested,

thanks!!!

vr

---

### Post by davidcmc on 2011-05-01
> **virtual reality said:**
> hi.

I'm sorry but I'm stuck / can't follow.

In maverick I had the cpu indicator (with the options to change the freq), now in natty I don't.

Tried to find sth appropriate in Ubuntu Software Center, but remain stuck. :-s

Noob-friendly instruction kindly requested,

thanks!!!

vr

Read collisionystm post above.
There are good solutions, but I'd like to see an oficial software in default Canonical repositories.

---

### Post by 5149.5 on 2011-05-01
Indicator-cpufreq is fine but I can't get it to autostart at bootup. I have to manually run it after login.

---

### Post by chachasalad on 2011-05-01
I installed indicator-cpufreq, but I'm having trouble launching it. The process does appear in System Manager, but nothing else. no indicator in the top bar. Suggestions? (Noob alert!)

---

### Post by Karaden on 2011-05-02
chachasalad - I had the same problem. I know it sounds silly, but try going into the Appearance menu and changing the icons that your current theme uses. The indicator for some reason only appears with certain icon sets (such as the Ubuntu Mono ones) - otherwise it's still running, just invisible.

Unfortunately, even with the indicator visible, I'm still having trouble with it. I select 'Powersave' from the menu, check again in minute or so and it's reset itself to 'Performance'. Not very helpful on a laptop that's so prone to overheating.

---

### Post by chachasalad on 2011-05-02
It worked, thank you!

---

### Post by Casper Hansen on 2011-05-02
I was wondering how to edit the applet. In 10.10 I had to add two applets for each CPU but can't edit the indicator-cpufreq.

---

### Post by davidcmc on 2011-05-02
This is why I don't like 3rd party rushed solutions.
Too bad the old menu applets can't work in Unity system tray by default.

Well, I think this is something we'll have to wait until they update.
Canonical has made a heavy decision in changing a desktop environment, let's remember that.

---

### Post by MikeDK on 2011-05-16
Only thing is, cpu frequency scaling under Natty and with i3 cpu's doesn't throttle all cores, but under Kubuntu it does.......why is that?

kind regards mikedk

---

