---
title: "11.04 sound problem"
date: 2011-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wordmaster on 2011-05-12
After upgrading to 11.04, both my sound volume and quality are problems. The volume is so low it is hard to hear and the quality when turned all the way up is bad. Even turned all the way up, it is still quite low.

I am running a Soundblaster card and it worked well in 10.X. It is run through a stereo amp and into huge speakers. With 10.x, I never turned the volume very much at all as it would cause pictures to fall off the wall.

I have been through all the options in System/preferences/sound with no joy.
I am running the classic desktop as the Unity desktop is, to me, an unusable mess.

Any and all help appreciated.

---

### Post by erthian on 2011-05-15
:Bump:

Same problem.  Not really sure where to start even.  I'm running 11.04 on my Aspire One with 2GB ram.  It was all fine before the upgrade.

I had KDE installed on here, but purged that.  Also, I installed the Xubuntu repo stuff, and I get xubuntu logos on boot.

Any way, Youtube and flash stuff seems fine.  Pandora and MP3s are all garbled up and quite.  I've googled every thing I can imagine and cant find a thing.

Any suggestions on where to start?

---

### Post by justnice980 on 2011-06-10
Same problem here. I'm running 11.04 on three machines with Gnome 3 shell (unity is garbage and I quite like Gnome 3). The sound quality on all of the machines is terrible. Intolerable is probably a more accurate term.

---

### Post by vange on 2011-08-16
I have the same problem. I solved it by following this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6178438&postcount=6]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6178438&postcount=6") - I haven't experienced the problem for half a day now :)

---

