---
title: "17.10 Text corruption and overall graphics corruption"
date: 2017-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dkhajavi@gmail.com on 2017-12-28
OK so I have been struggling with this for a few days now.  Basically upgraded from 16.10 using the auto loaded upgrade option.  No errors that I am aware of.  Now with 17.10 I get a log in screen that is one solid greyscale background with my user name and when clicked I enter my password and it moves to open my desktop.  Immediately however my desktop screen is horribly corrupted (could not get a screenshot of this).  It appears to be scaled with menu bar icons repeated dozens of times and everything blurred and pixelated with strange colors.  Nothing is clear.  It will not recover without input.  I have found that if I open an application from the menu bar (I have been opening GNOME Tweeks) it will recover to a somewhat readable desktop but with corrupted text for the desktop icons.  For a while the 'r' letters were the only ones corrupted into block shapes, now that seems to be more than just the 'r'.  Here is a screenshot:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]277952[/ATTACH]

Sometimes the menu bars are all corrupted into solid blocks which I cant read at all.  Other times the menus are partially corrupted like the desktop icons.   In cases where the menu text is corrupted I can use the scale +/- option in GNOME Tweeks and by going to ANY new scale it corrects 100% or the menu text issues but has no effect on the desktop icon text issues.  Regardless of the scale I set in GNOME Tweeks upon the next reboot the new scale will be corrupted and I will have to again use the +/- to recover.  It seems that whatever scale was set during the reboot will be corrupted and any other will clear the menu corruption.  This happens also on wake from suspend every time.  Here is a scren shot after wake from suspend:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]277954[/ATTACH]

I have installed several different themes and tried different fonts and font sizes but all have the same issues.  This is not a new computer and I have a old Nvidia card that has been fine previously.  Any help would be appreciated!

---

