---
title: "9.04 random short-duration system hangs/freezes"
date: 2009-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fatherted on 2009-06-16
I've got a fairly fresh install of 9.04 Server on an Athlon64 3000+, 1GB RAM and an X800 Pro video card. 

My problem is that no matter how I interact with the machine, I get long pauses (anywhere from 10 to 30 seconds) where it is totally unresponsive. At the end of that period, it "catches up" and does whatever I was inputting. That is, if I'm interacting via SSH, the characters I'm typing will stop appearing on the screen - but if I just continue typing while the system is apparently frozen, all of what I typed will suddenly appear when the freeze goes away. This also happens under Gnome. 

It is *amazingly* frustrating and makes the system nearly unusable. 

Streaming files seems to work fine (GnuMP3D), but it's possible that buffering in WinAmp is covering up for the freezes. 

This happens whether I'm SSH'ed in to a text terminal, using NXClient to run a remote X session, or physically sitting at the machine using an attached keyboard/monitor.

CPU utilization is low - I nearly never see it go over 15%. About 60% of the RAM is free, and swap usage is under 1%. 

The only somewhat hoggish application I have running is O3Spaces Community Edition server, which uses the lion's share of the RAM and CPU cycles, everything else is just your basic LAMP stack + SSH. I do have the basic Gnome desktop installed with no apps, but it only runs when I have started a remote X session - it does not load on boot. 

Any ideas? 

When I check the system temps everything is very nice and cool (under 30C).

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2009-06-16
I've noticed similar behaviour and I believe that IOwait is the culprit.  The easy way to check for this is to use the system monitor panel applet and set the IOWait color to something really bright (I use red so it's easily visible).  I've had issues with this excessive IOWait since 7.10.

I've found a really half-assed workaround is to leave a CD/DVD in my drive.  I put a disk in about a week ago and haven't had the problem reappear since; although before that it occured sporatically and randomly so I may just not have noticed it yet.

---

### Post by fatherted on 2009-06-16
I don't have an optical drive connected to this system...it's just a pure headless server install with nothing connected but a hard drive, so unfortunately that workaround isn't likely to do anything for me unless I can find a spare CD-ROM drive sitting around somewhere. 

Regarding iowait; I can't seem to find an option for this in the system monitor. I am running an extremely minimal xserver which isn't normally running. It's possible it's something I haven't installed? 

I can run the system monitor applet but it's equivalent to just running top from the command line for me (though on the resources tab I get graphs that don't really tell me anything).

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2009-06-16
Well... hmmmm... I'm out of ideas, sorry.

You can, however, get an idea of whether you're disk IO is causing problems is to use a program called iotop.  It's a command line utility.

You may want to check out this bug which is related to my previously mentioned IOWait issue: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/131094](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/131094)

---

### Post by fatherted on 2009-06-17
Well... just for the sake of experimentation, I swapped to an amazingly old TNT2 video card I found in a drawer, and got rid of the 9800Pro that was in there. 

Problem solved. 

No idea why, but the entire system is far more responsive, there are no more lockups, and the display quality seems to be better, even over X forwarding. 

Pretty sad commentary on the state of the ATI drivers, imo.

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2009-06-17
That's sad and hilarious at the same time.

---

