---
title: "9.10 newly installed doesn't detect proper screen resolution"
date: 2010-01-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t3chnique on 2010-01-02
My monitor is the hp pavilion f1703. The 9.10 only offers 2 resolutions 
800 x 600 (4:3) and  640 x 480 (4:3)

The native screen resolution is 1280 x 1024 @ 60Hz which is obviously not offered. I did my homework and followed this guide found here 
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-adjust-screen-resolution-on-ubuntu.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-adjust-screen-resolution-on-ubuntu.html)

all i got was 'xrandr:cannot find mode 1280x1024' when i try to set the resolution manually

The weird thing is ubuntu 8.10 detects my monitor native screen resolution just fine.

Anyone can help me? Thanks

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2010-01-02
do you have the video drivers installed?
administration > hardware drivers

---

### Post by t3chnique on 2010-01-02
> **HiImTye said:**
> do you have the video drivers installed?
administration > hardware drivers

thanks for your input. I did that and it says no propriety drivers are in use on this system. But i indeed reformatted my machine and start over. I got all the drivers on the windows side

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2010-01-02
do you have the option to choose drivers from the list?

also, what video card are you using?

---

### Post by t3chnique on 2010-01-02
> **HiImTye said:**
> do you have the option to choose drivers from the list?

also, what video card are you using?


No i do not have the option to choose drivers from the list the list was literally blank.

My video card is the
Intel Corporation 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller 

am i supposed to edit the xorg file or something?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-01-02
The default Intel 915 drivers should be installed by default, at least, they were on my Intel 915 laptop.

There are no "restricted drivers" for the Intel 915, which is why nothing is offered.

---

### Post by t3chnique on 2010-01-02
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> The default Intel 915 drivers should be installed by default, at least, they were on my Intel 915 laptop.

There are no "restricted drivers" for the Intel 915, which is why nothing is offered.

hmm, so....you're saying my video card drivers should be installed by default? But for some reason it doesn't offer me the proper resolution. Probably i will have to downgrade to the previous version of Ubuntu

---

### Post by t3chnique on 2010-01-02
Sorry, i was wrong. The 8.10 wasn't able to detect my monitor native resolution (1280*1024) however both the 8.10 and the 9.10 were able to offer higher resolution (at least @ 1024*768 or 1152*1164)

---

### Post by t3chnique on 2010-01-03
hmm, seems like i'm doomed. I've been researching for a while now. I stumbled on lots of threads mention about adding manual resolution into the xorg.conf file. I couldn't locate the xorg.conf on 9.10 though (the path is supposed to be in /etc/X11/xorg.conf. 

So i fiddle around more and find out from here[http://www.pubbs.net/ubuntu/200910/61528/]("http://www.pubbs.net/ubuntu/200910/61528/"). According to one contributor, the xorg is no longer needed as it automatically detects everything. He further stated that if in case of need for editing the xorg.conf, one would need to create the file and that's the exact problem i have right now. How would i go about creating the xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by JorgeGon on 2010-01-03
@t3chnique:
> **Giblet5]
**Step #4: Create a basic xorg.conf**[INDENT]Write the following commands down on paper because we're going to turn off the GUI and run a few commands from the console.

Flip to the text console via Ctrl+Alt+F1 and log in.

Execute these commands:
```

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
sudo X -configure
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start  said:**
> 

From: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1324239](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1324239) (You'll likely find it useful)

---

### Post by t3chnique on 2010-01-03
> **JorgeGon said:**
> @t3chnique:


From: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1324239](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1324239) (You'll likely find it useful)

Thanks a lot for your input. Unfortunately, it was fruitless. :(

Here's my monitor 
[http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?lc=en&cc=us&dlc=&product=391290&docname=c00037789](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?lc=en&cc=us&dlc=&product=391290&docname=c00037789)

i did 
```
cvt 1024 768 75
``` 
and it produced
```
# 1024x768 74.90 Hz (CVT 0.79M3) hsync: 60.29 kHz; pclk: 82.00 MHz
Modeline "1024x768_75.00"   82.00  1024 1088 1192 1360  768 771 775 805 -hsync +vsync

```

my horizontal sync would be 60.29 kHz and vertical refresh rate would be 74.90 Hz

I then created a new xorg.conf like instructed and added the horizontal + vertical refresh rate

```
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "Monitor0"
        HorizSync    60.29
        VertRefresh  74.90
        VendorName   "HP"
        ModelName    "f1703"
EndSection
```

I saved the file and restart X but it didn't do anything. Did i do something wrong?

at first i tried using the provided spec

Horizontal 30-83 Hz

Vertical 56-76 Hz

but according to the guide the Horizontal sync should be in KHz but i tried it anyway and it didn't work either

```
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "Monitor0"
        HorizSync    30-83
        VertRefresh  56-76 
        VendorName   "HP"
        ModelName    "f1703"
EndSection
```


Appreciated the helps. Even though it didn't resolve my issue but I learned a lot from that guide :lolflag:

---

### Post by stoneage on 2010-01-03
You would have to add the modeline to the xorg.conf as well.

I had trouble with monitor detection too - an Asus VW192 s. I used the nVidia xserver to create a configuration file, then manually edited it and saved it as the xorg.conf(I guess you can't take this route if you don't use an nVidia driver).

Here is the relevant section from the xorg.conf showing the modeline:-
> Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: xconfig, VertRefresh source: xconfig
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
    Modeline "1440x900_75.00" 136.49 1440 1536 1688 1936 900 901 904 940 -HSync +Vsync 
EndSection

---

### Post by t3chnique on 2010-01-03
> **stoneage said:**
> You would have to add the modeline to the xorg.conf as well.

I had trouble with monitor detection too - an Asus VW192 s. I used the nVidia xserver to create a configuration file, then manually edited it and saved it as the xorg.conf(I guess you can't take this route if you don't use an nVidia driver).

Here is the relevant section from the xorg.conf showing the modeline:-

oh my, it worked!!!!! :guitar: Thanks a million time for all your generous helps especially JorgeGon and stoneage. I was so happy that i jumped off the chair :)

Adding the modeline to the xorg file totally did the trick. Ubuntuforums rockkkkks !

---

