---
title: "Ubu 13.10 on Acer Iconia Tab with Auto On-Screen Keyboard"
date: 2013-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jamesisin on 2013-11-01
I just installed Ubuntu 13.10 onto this Acer Iconia Tab we were not using here at work.  All seems well and fine as far as that goes.

I would like to use it without its USB keyboard/dock.  I can run the on-screen keyboard at will, but it would be preferable to have the on-screen keyboard auto-launch whenever a text field were selected.

Is that possible?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2013-11-04
Is there any package that would pop up a keyboard any time a text field were selected?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2013-11-07
Perhaps some packages associated with the Ubuntu phone operating system?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2013-11-08
Can I add packages from Ubuntu Touch into the regular Ubuntu and get some of those functions (like an auto-keyboard) that way?

[http://www.ubuntu.com/phone/install](http://www.ubuntu.com/phone/install)

---

### Post by eduardorudas on 2013-12-25
> **jamesisin said:**
> I just installed Ubuntu 13.10 onto this Acer  Iconia Tab we were not using here at work.  All seems well and fine as  far as that goes.

I would like to use it without its USB keyboard/dock.  I can run the  on-screen keyboard at will, but it would be preferable to have the  on-screen keyboard auto-launch whenever a text field were selected.

Is that possible?

I know this is post is a little bit old however, I'm replying also for the sake of others looking for the answer to this question.

I manage to automatically show the on-screen keyboard when editing text fields on 10.13 following these steps:

-Click on the Ubuntu Dash icon (first on the top-left corner) and type "onboard" (without quotes) on the search box. Onboard is the name of the on-screen keyboard on Ubuntu.
-Click on the Onboard icon (it's four squares, two white, one blue with a B and one orange with an O). That open the on-screen keyboard.
-On the icons on the top right corner bar, nearby the clock, a new icon appears as four small squares. Click on it and select "Preferences"
-On the "General" section, check the "Auto-show when editing text" check box. You could also change other preferences on this window. For instance, on the "Layout" section, you could change the keyboard style.
-Click the "Close" button. Settings are applied and saved immediately, so there is no "Save" button.
-It could ask to load Gnome accessibility components and that a log-out and log-in is necessary for having complete functionality. That's OK. Do as it says.
-That's all!

Tested on a Toshiba u925t convertible ultrabook with touchscreen.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2014-01-07
Thanks.  What you say is mostly correct.

Pulling up the Dash (I use the Super or Windows key) I get two related items: Onboard and Onboard Settings.  Since I see no "Preferences" in my Onboard menu (near the clock), I selected Onboard Settings from the Dash.

I checked the "Auto-show when editing text" box.  This is pretty good but doesn't work if a terminal is selected.  So I also checked the "Show floating icon when Onboard is hidden" box.  Now it's much easier to call Onboard when I need a keyboard.

Of course, it doesn't adjust the screen and windows so I'll still be looking forward to what might come in 14.04 (ported from the mobile version).

---

