---
title: ".trash-* folders in mounted drives"
date: 2007-06-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrObviousSo on 2007-06-26
(new user.  Be gentle)
I have 3 NTFS drives mounted under /media, 1 has my xp install, and 2 just have data.  I've discovered that when I delete a file in any of those drives, it goes to .trash-*login name*, and no amount of emptying the trash can will get rid of the files.  I have deleted them by hand with no problem.

I don't like this behavior.  I'd like these files to be deleted when I empty the trash.  Is there any way to make this happen?

---

### Post by jackmc on 2007-06-26
I'd like to know too, its damn annoying!

---

### Post by ss0007 on 2007-06-26
well it has been reported as bug , take a look 
[http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=138058 ]("http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=138058")and 
[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/12893]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/12893")

---

### Post by DrObviousSo on 2007-06-26
Ah, thanks.

Does anyone have a good work around?  I guess instead of emptying the trash, I could write a little script that empties the trash, and them deletes all the files in those .trash-* folders.  I say that theoretically, because I don't have any experience writing scripts in linux.  Anyone know how to go about doing that?

---

### Post by mikeypizano on 2007-06-26
Is there a way to disable trash on  JUST removable drives?

---

### Post by UncertainGod on 2007-10-22
I'd also be very interested in a way to disable the trashcan on removable drives. Actually I wouldn't mind getting rid of it all together.

---

### Post by gmaniac on 2007-10-22
I also find this annoying but a workaround for this is to press shift with the delete key. This way the files are deleted immediately with the obvious drawbacks of that...

---

### Post by tubasoldier on 2007-10-22
> **gmaniac said:**
> I also find this annoying but a workaround for this is to press shift with the delete key. This way the files are deleted immediately with the obvious drawbacks of that...

Amazingly enough SHIFT+DEL also works in windows to delete files without sending them to the trash

---

