---
title: "WTF is up with my network connection? Utter madness."
date: 2010-07-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jared650 on 2010-07-20
Okay, installed Ubuntu 10.04, love it, looks great, yadda, yadda, yadda.

PROBLEM: My network connection is misbehaving.

I'll spare you the long, frustrating, trial-and-error story about why I have a network connection right now. In order to get this connection I've discovered that I need to turn on my modem at the point where Ubuntu begins to boot up. OTHERWISE, no internet!

If the modem is on before I start the computer: no internet.

If the modem is turned on after Ubuntu has booted: no internet.

If I turn the modem off and on while Ubuntu is booted: no internet.

If I try to start up the connection, Ubuntu tells me it cannot find my network connection.

WTF is up with my network connection? Utter madness.

---

### Post by rubylaser on 2010-07-20
Are you connecting through a wired or wireless connection?  I assume wired.  Have you tried giving your machine a static ip?

---

### Post by jared650 on 2010-07-20
> **rubylaser said:**
> Are you connecting through a wired or wireless connection?  I assume wired.  Have you tried giving your machine a static ip?

Yeah, it is a wired connection. Is there any way to give a static IP that isn't scary? The howto's I've found look dangerous.

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-07-20
Cable modem ??  If so, invest in a cheap router that will marry to your modem and keep your connection alive.  Then it won't matter when your computer is on or off.

If DSL, then I probably won't be as much help since most DSK modems include a rudimentary router anyway.

---

### Post by bytecode on 2010-07-20
> **jared650 said:**
> Yeah, it is a wired connection. Is there any way to give a static IP that isn't scary? The howto's I've found look dangerous.

Hi yeah - you can assign a static address via the network manager icon in the panel, it has different menu options depending upon whether you left or right-click. Click it so that you get the "Edit Connection" menu option.

In the pop-up window, open the "Wired Network" tab, Edit the "eth0 entry" (I'm assuming it'll be eth0; your mileage may vary), select the "IPv4" tab, enter the relevant ip address of our machine), subnet mask, gateway (router ip) address into one line in the multicolumn text are. Put your routers ip in as the dns server.

I usually check the "Make available to all users" option.


RE: Scary way

I assume that you are referring to using the command line to do this?
If so, it's just a case of editing the relevant text file.
This can be done via the command line text editors such as nano, vi,emacs etc.  Or it can be done via a favourite graphical text editor.

the files relevant to networking are:


 /etc/resolv.conf            # DNS / name server entries here
 /etc/network/interfaces     # configuration of your interfaces here
 There are some others, hosts.deny etc... but these are the relevant ones for now.

I can't guess your settings, but for comparison, mine are as follows:

 /etc/network/interfaces

    auto lo
    iface lo inet loopback

    auto eth0
    iface eth0 inet static
    address 192.168.1.34
    gateway 192.168.1.1
    netmask 255.255.255.0
    network 192.168.1.0
    broadcast 192.168.1.255

/etc/resolv.conf

    # Generated by NetworkManager
    domain domain_not_set.invalid
    search domain_not_set.invalid
    nameserver 212.139.132.44
    nameserver 212.139.132.43
    nameserver 192.168.1.1

You can launch a text editor like gedit  in "administrative/super user" mode using the gksudo command thus:

 gksudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces

---

