---
title: "Help with s-video out"
date: 2006-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Rahu on 2006-10-31
I'm trying to get the s-video out on my computer working so I can hook it up to my tv. Right now whenever I try to boot up it loads successfully, but when it gets past the part with the ubuntu logo and the loading bar, the video completely disappears. ctrl+alt+f1 brings up the terminal, which displays just fine, so I think it's a problem with the x server.

My xorg.conf is currently set up for my monitor and I have no idea what I would need to change to make it support my tv(nvidia-xconfig did not help) Anyone here know what I need to do?

btw, my video card is a GeForce 5200

---

### Post by Grog140 on 2006-10-31
I have the same card and I have gotten it to work in dapper. So it is possible., You need to edit your xorg.conf file a lot and it is very difficult to switch back and forth. I disabled mine in the end because I would have to restart X-session to stop doing tv-out. But I want something that will turn it on/off while in my active seesion

Anyway, I followed this (bare in mind I did it in Dapper and not edgy):

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98456&highlight=nvidia+tv+out]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=98456&highlight=nvidia+tv+out")

I am not sure if it will work in edgy

---

### Post by Titus A Duxass on 2006-11-01
This is a tricky one to sort out, there is a good how-to on the forum. 
Below is my xorg.conf which functions with either a tv or a monitor automatically.  It works with breezy and with MythDora.

Hope it gives you some guidance.

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"de"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"nodeadkeys"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Identifier      "Device[1]"
        Screen          0
        Option          "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO" 
        Option          "TVStandard" "PAL-B" 
        Option          "ConnectedMonitor" "Monitor[1]"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0" 
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Monitor[1]" #TV
        HorizSync       30-50
        VertRefresh     60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Device "Device[1]"
        Identifier "Screen[1]"
        Monitor "Monitor[1]"
        DefaultDepth 24
        SubSection "Display"
               Depth 24
               Modes "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
   Identifier  "Simple Layout"
       Screen 0 "Screen[1]"
   InputDevice "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"
   InputDevice "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

