---
title: "9.04 ext4 resize bug - big warning!!"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-04-24
I just noticed this in the 9.04 release notes:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904#Possible%20data-loss%20problems%20resizing%20ext4](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/904#Possible%20data-loss%20problems%20resizing%20ext4)

**[SIZE="4"]Possible data-loss problems resizing ext4[/SIZE]**

**The resize2fs tool may cause data loss when growing or shrinking ext4 filesystems off-line**. [See this mail from the upstream maintainer for more details]("http://article.gmane.org/gmane.comp.file-systems.ext4/12763"). Unfortunately we became aware of this too late to fix it in Ubuntu 9.04. If you wish to resize an ext4 filesystem using the tools in Ubuntu 9.04, you may be able to work around these problems by first disabling the flex_bg and uninit_bg features (do not attempt this on a mounted filesystem!):

```
tune2fs -O ^flex_bg,^uninit_bg /dev/DEVICE_NAME
e2fsck /dev/DEVICE_NAME
```

However, we still strongly recommend taking significantly more care with backups than usual before attempting to resize an ext4 filesystem.

---

### Post by frodon on 2009-04-24
Hello dcstar,

Thansks for the information and the report you made to bring this to our attention. You are right this deserve to be stuck somewhere.
Sef already opened a sticky in Install & Upgrade forum to inform jaunty users about ext4 status, please feel free to put your thoughts/advices there. I'm sure Sef would be pleased to add your suggestions in first post if needed.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133719](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1133719)

---

### Post by akaihola on 2009-05-27
> **dcstar said:**
> 
```
tune2fs -O ^flex_bg,^uninit_bg /dev/DEVICE_NAME
```


It doesn't seem possible to clear the flex_bg flag:
```
# tune2fs -O ^flex_bg /dev/DEVICE_NAME
tune2fs 1.41.4 (27-Jan-2009)
Clearing the flex_bg flag would cause the the filesystem to be
inconsistent.

```

---

### Post by PW-toXic on 2010-06-26
Hi,
I have grown my mdadm raid5 form 3 * 1TB to 4 * 1TB and then resized it to 3TB. This was last year, and i remembered, that there was a bug resizing an ext4 raid5, but I dont know exactly what I did, or which tutorial I used. I have spend a lot of time googling for that.

Now I want to grow my raid5 from 4 * 1TB to 6 * 1TB, and im not sure how i should do it. I'm currently doing the reshape from the mdadm --grow command. 30 hours left.

But now I am not sure, how I exactly should resize my partition then. I was planning to simply to resize2fs without any flags.
The problem is, if this fails, all my data is loss. Since my raid is so big, I cant make backups of it. I can afford loosing all the data, but I would be very sad about it. Of course I have backups of the most important files.

Can anyone tell me, if this resize bug has been fixed with an fully updated ubuntu 9.04?

---

### Post by s3a on 2010-06-26
Sorry if this is stupid comment (and it doesn't work like that) but why can't you use a 9.10 or 10.04 live cd to resize an ext4 partition?

Edit: I'm guessing this is a bug with ext4 in Ubuntu 9.04 instead of Gparted?

---

