---
title: "16.04 desktop complete lock up after 14.04 &gt; 16.04 upgrade."
date: 2017-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chris354 on 2017-01-08
Good morning,

Im here because my 16.04 installation is locking up quite frequently. I believe this may be a memory issue but never had this occur on 14.04 or earlier releases.

The last lockup occurred during the small hours of this morning. During my checks i have been running free -m to see whats going on with memory (I did have a no swap issue which cause the system to fully lock up within 20 minutes of boot)

My current free -m
```

                    total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
Mem:           3951        1730         747          38        1472        1911
Swap:          4999           0        4999

```

Now i find that once the boot as finished without any applications open i have barely more than 1gb of my ram free out of 4gb total. As soon as i open anything mildly ram hogging, chromium, thunderbird or transmission the like thats soon gone and im into the swap (5gb).

As i was able to get an exact time for the lockup at 04:47:12 (clock froze) I had a start point so i headed into the log files /var/log, in syslog I located the time actually before it and after it but at the time in question there was only unreadable characters (gedit) approximately 8 full screen lines of it where logs before and after were readable.

Can anybody tell me why the logs might be showing like that or if Im going to need another application to read that section? I doubt it but you never know.

As ive been attempting to resolve the freeze i have tried the usual avenues to recover the system:
ctrl + alt + sysreq R E I S U B
alt + sysreq + f
ctrl + alt + F1 - F5

Nothing allows me to recover only a reset, This may be nothing to do with this but I thought i better mention, im also getting grub rescue prompt on a cold boot, pressing reset allows me to boot normally.

System Info:

AMD 64bit
nvidia gt610
4gb ram
250gb ide hdd
2 x 160 sata hdd
wifi card (ralink 3020 possibly 3060)

Ubuntu 16.04 desktop version.

For reference I have a system with the 16.04 server version that has no signs of freezing, crashing or otherwise so i do believe the fault lies in the user environment somewhere.
[B]
Work in progress:
memtest running: first pass no errors.

I will return at this evening 6PM GMT with the results of memtest, will also attempt to reproduce the crash and bring with me a report.
[/B]

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2017-01-09
What specific processor model?  I ran into a similar problem on the Hot Rod gPC, which was eventually traced to a failing memory manager in its Advanced Micro Devices® Athlon 64® X2 5600+ (I'm currently fallen back to an Athlon 64® 3500+ while hunting a replacement dual- or quad-core).

---

### Post by chris354 on 2017-01-09
Thank you for the response.

From about  computer: AMD Athlon 64 X2 Dual core processor 6000+ x 2

Can you let me know how you traced back to the memory manager, It will be work checking off the list if i can do.

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2017-01-09
Same generation as my failed X2 5600+.  Can you boot to MemTest86+ (included with every ubuntu® distro since 2006)?  It should be accessible from the GRUB menu.  In my case, the X2 5600+ showed errors at what were in fact perfectly DDR SDRAM address cells, with a too consistent Error Bits, across all banks (the error did not repeat with an Athlon 64® 3500+ from a donor rig).

---

### Post by chris354 on 2017-01-10
Thank you for the reply, memtest is running now. No idea how long it takes never run one but its on test 5. Could be a while il come back with the results and if there are memory errors as with yours i will assume that to be the fault and see if i cant dig out my old cpu it did work last i checked.

First pass shows zero errors, as i have done a little digging into memory errors i found information relating to heat problems which may relate to my issue so im leaving it running. The reason i believe it may relate is that the crash occurs after running for some time even though correcting my swap issue did extend the time to crash i believe that may only be due to the memory not being worked so hard with the swap in use.

Again i will come back when i have more conclusive results from memtest, I think 5+ passes should cover it but will leave it running until tea time today a good 12 hour run on this should prove conclusive.

---

### Post by chris354 on 2017-01-14
[B]Sorry I am late coming back to this. Failed to recreate the crash manually, it did crash again overnight 04:40:00 Friday 13th (clock stopped). This happened after being idle for a period of time ad i went to bed a little after 2am. Again no readable logs present for the time of the crash so could not trace a cause.

Due to this i have now taken the semi nuclear options and reinstalled the system with a fresh 16.04.1 and so far things seem to be doing okay. There are no longer services running (i was running it as a website development machine) to hog large amounts of resources.

I still believe this to be memory related. While it might not be an error in the memory banks its very likely that it was simply being over loaded with 4GB for each RAM and SWAP. New installation had 10GB swap partition which i am absolutely sure will cover most everyday situations.

Thank for the help trying to sort this Much appreciated, I will now mark this as solved.[/B]

---

