---
title: "12.04: compiz/firefox/chrome huge CPU consumption"
date: 2012-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tavis008 on 2012-05-05
Hey guys,

recently I installed from scratch new 32 bit 12.04 Ubuntu hoping that I would get rid of the problem that I had in 11.10 - significant CPU consumption (90-100%) by firefox, plugin-container  etc. (usually connected with attempts to watch youtube, use skype etc.) so I'm forced to restart the computer.

The problem persists. Except that now it's even worse, I gave up attempts to watch youtube etc. but I still get this problem sooner or later. I'm desperate, my laptot is unusable and I have no idea what to do about it - I googled some threds and saw similar problems by other people, but nothing I tried helped to me. Also, as it seems it could be related to Flash, I uninstalled Adobe Flash completely, but it didn't help.

I have a suspicion that it could also be an issue of my graphic card (nvidia).

Any ideas how could I trace this problem down and fix this? Sorry, I'm not very advanced linux-guy :/

Thanks!

---

### Post by SharezLinux on 2012-05-05
I have same problem with compiz and I am suspicious that there is a problem with new nvidia driver (v295). I am going to downgrade my display driver. I will report results as soon as possible.

---

### Post by tavis008 on 2012-05-07
That would be great, thanks!

I also tried to downgrade (to 173), but I got the dependencies errors ...

```
The following packages have unmet dependencies:

nvidia-173: Depends: x11-common (>= 1:7.0.0) but 1:7.6+12ubuntu1 is to be installed
            Depends: xorg-video-abi-10 but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: xserver-xorg-core (>= 2:1.8.99.905-1ubuntu3) but 2:1.11.4-0ubuntu10.1 is to be installed

```

Ideas?
If I read it correctly, this lower version requires x11-commo 1:7.0.0 and higher which I should have, right, as I have 1:7.6 ... or no??

---

