---
title: "14.04: Won't Reboot"
date: 2014-06-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Deanimator on 2014-06-15
I have the following system:
Biostar TForce 6100-939
2gb RAM
Onboard video only
500gb SATA HDD
Unity desktop
LAMP
Newly installed SATA RAID card and two 500gb SATA HDDs (installed AFTER the behavior noted below was observed)

When I try to reboot, either from the desktop controls or from the command line, it runs through the normal shutdown/reboot procedures, usually says that it failed to terminate a process (Modem Manager, I believe, which it then says it terminated) then hangs.  When I hit the reset switch it boots normally.  Depending upon how I have the grub switches set, it has actually powered down.

I've tried the grub settings including BIOS and KEYBOARD, that I've seen in other forums.

Does anyone have any suggestions?

I really need to be able to reboot this system without being in the room with it.

Thanks.

UPDATE:  I changed /etc/default/grub as follows:

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet acpi=force apm=power_off reboot=acpi"

The system will now power down, but still won't reboot.

---

### Post by Deanimator on 2014-06-15
Update:  It also shuts down with: GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=""

It still won't reboot.

---

### Post by Deanimator on 2014-06-15
Found this list of switches for "reboot=" in /etc/default/grub:

> /* reboot=b[ios] | s[mp] | t[riple] | k[bd] | e[fi] [, [w]arm | [c]old] | p[ci]
   warm   Don't set the cold reboot flag
   cold   Set the cold reboot flag
   bios   Reboot by jumping through the BIOS (only for X86_32)
   smp    Reboot by executing reset on BSP or other CPU (only for X86_32)
   triple Force a triple fault (init)
   kbd    Use the keyboard controller. cold reset (default)
   acpi   Use the RESET_REG in the FADT
   efi    Use efi reset_system runtime service
   pci    Use the so-called "PCI reset register", CF9
   force  Avoid anything that could hang.
 */

My mis-typing GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="warm" worked intermittently.  It still shuts down with "shutdown -P".  It's a known bug, which use of the switches fixes for SOME people but not others.

So far, I've tried warm, cold and triple, as well as empty quotes and "warm" with no "reboot=" (by accident, which occasionally works) on this go-round.  Have to stop for the evening.

---

