---
title: "Where are Teamviewer downloads?"
date: 2019-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aughey on 2019-04-29
I have Teamviewer version 14.1.9025. Where or how I got it I cannot remember but I kept a copy of the download.

When I go to download the current version Ubuntu Teamviewer version 14.2.8352 i get a page with 403 ERROR The request could not be satisfied Bad request generated by cloudfront = Then a suggestion it could be related to my refusing cookies. This is the same for all linux versions

The problem im having is not actually on the Ubuntu end. Version 14.1.9025 allows me to control a Windows 10 laptop and an Imac without any problems. However when I try to control the Ubuntu laptop from my PC the mouse clicks dont work. I think if I had the same version on all three computers this would cure the problem but that is just my own guess. What setting needs tweaking I have no clue.

Here is the copy of teamviewer 14.1.9025 download

[http://www.mediafire.com/file/y45midiy77adzpt/teamviewer_14.1.9025_i386.deb/file](http://www.mediafire.com/file/y45midiy77adzpt/teamviewer_14.1.9025_i386.deb/file)

---

### Post by howefield on 2019-04-29
Download from the Teamviewer website working fine here.

I've put it Dropbox if you want to try downloading ?

[https://www.dropbox.com/s/92c82b8xnt0axlm/teamviewer_14.2.8352_i386.deb?dl=0](https://www.dropbox.com/s/92c82b8xnt0axlm/teamviewer_14.2.8352_i386.deb?dl=0)

---

### Post by Autodave on 2019-04-29
If you are still using Ubuntu 14.04, you will need to upgrade to at least 16.04.

---

### Post by aughey on 2019-04-29
Many thanks howefield I updated my version but the mouse problem still persists. I can connect from my PC to my Ubuntu 19.04 laptop ok. The mouse clicks still do not work. I can see the mouse pointer only on my PC but its not there on the Ubuntu end. However when I reverse the situation I can have full control of the PC from Ubuntu and the mouse pointer is visible on both machines. So there must be something im missing on the PC end even with matching versions of Teamviewer on both machines.

---

### Post by aughey on 2019-04-30
I have a new problem but kinda solved it. Since upgrading to Teamviewer version 14.2.8352I I cannot get anything except "partner could not be contacted at the given network address" for ALL my previous contacts.I deleted this version and reinstalled Version 14.1.9025 and lo and behold everything now works = with the exception of the vanishing mouse pointer when attempting to connect from my PC to my Ubuntu laptop. Going the other way from Ubuntu to the PC works fine and as long as I can control the Imac from my Ubuntu that's fine by me!

---

### Post by aughey on 2019-05-09
It seems I am plagued by error 403. I tried to download Teamviewer 14.2.8352 via my Ubuntu 19.04 laptop from the Teamviewer website. It 403d. I then fired up my Windows 10 pro partition it did the same thing. I then got my android phone and while it installed the Android version of Teamviewer 14 it too error 403d when I tried to download the Ubuntu 64 bit file. I then used the Windows Teamviewer to link to an Imac I regularly work on and directed its browser to the Ubuntu download which it downloaded without any problems. I then transferred it using Teamviewer file transfer. Is the 403 error an internet provider problem as I remember when I first used Teamviewer Talktalks software blocked it as it treated it as malicious software and I had to ring the Talktalk help desk to disable it.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-05-09
403 means the webserver doesn't want you to have access.  It could be a govt choice, ISP choice or more likely, the website operator's choice.

  Alas, there are VPNs and TOR to get around these things, usually.  

I manage about 30 different websites and whenever any subnet attacks any of those servers, I modify the access rules to block the subnet.  Often, it is just a /24 that gets blocked, but sometimes, the netblock is huge based on the ISP allowing bad actors onto the internet. I generally only block /8 in countries that I believe to be "bad actors."

Sometimes I block based on the User-Agent. Usually the attackers will specify a really old version of I.E., so blocking those are more efficient than blocking subnets. Automated attack tools use these too.  

I've been on travel and had my websites blocked from access by the ISP in different countries too. It was the dns-name that was blocked, not the IP/subnet. Without access to the server logs, it isn't possible for an end-user to tell exactly where or why they might be blocked.

---

### Post by aughey on 2019-05-09
I tried to download a copy of Anydesk. It 403d on me too. However I tried opening the link in a private window on Ubuntu Firefox and the download proceeded as normal. Tried it on windows but it didnt work there only Ubuntu. I was also able to use this trick top download the Windows version. Not that it did me any good as I could not get the sopftware working properly.

---

