---
title: "8.10 ubuntu problems with Second Life"
date: 2009-01-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by doeadam on 2009-01-25
Hi,  I recently updated my ubuntu to the new 8.10 version.  After installation i have had trouble with certain applications.  I have activated the necessary drivers for my geforce go 7400 and this seems to be working fine.  The application that wont work is Second Life, it seems to run extremly slwoly although the reason for this i cant find as my graphics card and internet connection seem to be working fine.

Any help would be greatly appreciated. many thanks

Adam

---

### Post by Sam Lars on 2009-01-25
Do you know if you're using the Compiz visual effects?  You should try the game without those and see if it makes a difference.

---

### Post by doeadam on 2009-01-25
Im afraid im not sure if im using compviz, is there any way i can find out?

---

### Post by Dustin2128 on 2009-01-25
if your visual effects are set on extra or normal, you're running compiz. However, the far more likely problem is the bad nvidia drivers for 8.10 (still not as bad as the ati ones are though) I don't know why they don't just retain the ones from 8.04, but I'm not upgrading for a while... I think secondlife should run as it should with visual effects set to none, however. I'm running an nvidia Geforce 4, and I've never had the slightest problem.

---

### Post by MoreCowBell on 2009-01-29
Have you met the system requirements for Second Life?  Most likely, you need more RAM.I hope you are using broadband (Cable or DSL).  Also, A fast processor is needed for it to work well.

---

