---
title: "10.04 broke my fglrx, how do I fix"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by charonred on 2010-04-30
I just 'upgraded from 9.10 Karmic to 10.04 Lucid; I got the following errors

> Could not install '/var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_i386.deb'

The upgrade will continue but the '/var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_i386.deb' package may not be in a working state. Please consider submitting a bug report about it.

> Could not install 'fglrx'

The upgrade will continue but the 'fglrx' package may not be in a working state. Please consider submitting a bug report about it.

no package named `fglrx' is installed, cannot configure

I've rebooted several times but can't install, nor uninstall fglrx properly - how do I get my desktop effects working properly again

I also had desktop spread across 2 monitors, now I only have desktop on one monitor, the other is blank

---

### Post by charonred on 2010-04-30
bump

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-04-30
Please don't bump until 24 hours has elasped, remember we are all volunteers here, it may take a while for the person that knows the answer to your question to see it.

---

### Post by Younio on 2010-04-30
> **charonred said:**
> I just 'upgraded from 9.10 Karmic to 10.04 Lucid; I got the following errors





I've rebooted several times but can't install, nor uninstall fglrx properly - how do I get my desktop effects working properly again

I also had desktop spread across 2 monitors, now I only have desktop on one monitor, the other is blank

Hi, I have the same problem

Maybe this is caused because earlier i had installed ati graphics driver from ati website. Maybe not. 
More Details:
After upgrade my screen wasn't working properly, after rebooting  i have been told that computer can't find these packages/modules:
> fglrx-amdcccle and xorg-driver-fglrx and will be using default graphics driver. Then I tried to run update manager and saw that many packages wasn't installed during upgrade, alongside fglrx-amdcccle and xorg-driver-fglrx. I was suggested to run partial upgrade, but i refused. After that run synaptic and one by one tried to install packages that were on update manager's list(by the way, they all were grayed out). I installed few of them but when i tried to install fglrx-amdcccle and xorg-driver-fglrx I was given fallowing error: 
> E: /var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_i386.deb: inner process of a new pre-installation script stopped returning the value of 1

After that these packages are broken and i can't do anything to fix them. When I run "sudo apt-get -f install" i have the same message like in synaptic. 

So, any help would be deeply appreciated

---

### Post by Younio on 2010-04-30
Qianqian Fang found a workaround: > I found a workaround: I manually deleted the folder /usr/share/ati and
now fglrx can be installed.

EDIT: Previous packages are installed now but the partial upgrade problem still exists. Any sugestions?

---

### Post by Dilutu on 2010-04-30
installing fglrx from synaptic didnt work for me. Installing fglrx from Jockey (System-Administration-hardware drivers) was ok.

---

### Post by gamalicious on 2010-04-30
Deleting /usr/share/ati seemed to work for me as well. At least the initial install, haven't played with all the options yet. Thanks to Qianqian Fang and Younio.

---

### Post by Kilcaff on 2010-04-30
Thanks, I'm hoping this will solve a similar problem I'm having with my HD 5770 and ccc.
Also, I've heard that people are having issue with the ati 10.4 release of their drivers, but 10.3 work fine.
I also use a dual screen setup so I'm hoping that I can get this problem solved when I get back to my pc after the weekend.

---

### Post by aviramof on 2010-04-30
lucid 10.04 fglrx is a messy driver i now have a problem with him that i removed it for some reason and when i reinstall it even 
though he's fine he did not reinstall catalyst shortcuts in system preference and i still have the old problem of him showing 
my screens as unknown in monitors and to be honest i am tiered of the fact that every little thing breaks this system like a peach 
of glass even removing and reinstalling catalyst doesn't fix it so what is the point of the option complete removal in synaptic if it's not
 doing it's job properly?

---

### Post by Younio on 2010-04-30
Just in case someone needs this. I solved partial upgrade problem by installing all the packages by synaptic, there was few packages that were messed up from i didn't need them so i just removed them.  everything seems to work now

EDIT: ATI Driver is still not working, Hardware drivers (Jockey) tells me that the driver is activated and working, but when i choose appearance and select effects none of them are working. And on catalyst control center options with 3d are grayed out. It just wont turn on.

Waiting for help. :)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-30
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)

---

### Post by Younio on 2010-04-30
> **dino99 said:**
> [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)

Tried to remove ATI by the instructions given, got this error:
> dpkg-divert: mismatch on package
  when removing `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 to /usr/lib/fglrx/libGL.so.1.2.xlibmesa by fglrx'
  found `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 to /usr/lib/fglrx/libGL.so.1.2.xlibmesa by xorg-driver-fglrx'

Then i deleted both /usr/lib/fglrx/libGL.so.1.2.xlibmesa and /usr/lib/libGL.so.1.2 and still got the same error.

---

### Post by jetpeach on 2010-04-30
when i tried removing fglrx in aptitude, i got the same diversion error as younio. i quit aptitude, deactivated fglrx in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf so i could start KDE. now i'm trying the proprietary driver install in jockey in KDE.
 will update if it works.

EDIT: yep, this fixed it for me. glxgears giving 37000 frames using my radeon 2600xt. naturally glxgears is not a benchmark, but i that is high enough to safely know it's working correctly...

---

### Post by charonred on 2010-04-30
I deleted the usr/share/ati folder with this```
sudo rm -rf /usr/share/ati
``` then reinstalled fglrx via Synaptic and rebooted, I now have 2 monitors working (clones), but also have 2 ATI CCC in >System>Preferences menu (2 each of normal and admin items)

IF I click on any of them I get
> There was a problem initializing Catalyst Control Center Linux edition.  It could be caused by the following.

No ATI graphics driver is installed, or the ATI driver is not functioning properly.
Please install the ATI driver appropriate for you ATI hardware, or configure using aticonfig.

So next I installed the ATI driver via terminal
with ```
sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-10-4-x86.x86_64.run
```
after rebooting ATI CCC worked - I also went into >System>Preferences>Main Menu and unticked the duplicate entries for normal and admin CCC items.

After rebooting I have 1 desktop spanning 2 monitors, but I'm unable to enable desktop effects (no click title bar to rollup window etc) - I reinstalled Compiz, but that make any difference (all the settings are there, but they just don't work)

Any ideas on how to get Desktop Effects re-enabled ?

---

### Post by ask@refcapgroup.com on 2010-04-30
Previously on Ubuntu Karmic I had multi GPU setup without a problem.
System consists of three ATI radeon HD 3600 (multi head) running 6 monitors.

Setting it up was was easy as windows. All I did was download the ati catalyst and issue the following command:
aticonfig --initial=dual-head --adapter=all

That created the perfect xorg.conf. With the amdcccle desktop, I then rearranged the monitors around to my setup and enabled xinerama. I thus had a total of six monitors working without a problem. (Naturally with compiz turned off).

- UPGRADING TO LUCID BIGGEST MISTAKE -

Well up on my screen, yesterday the update manager popped up Lucid Ubuntu 10.04 Release available. I upgraded. I got the same issue of fglrx.. Reading through Forum I deleted the /usr/share/ati folder. uninstalled the catalyst. Rebooted in safe mode and then re-installed via synatic fglrx and amdcccle. All went well.

I then issued the basic command.

aticonfig --initial -f  

This created the standard xorg.conf. On rebooting machine. My first two screens (off the first Radeon HD 3600) worked fine, without a problem. I backed up the xorg.conf file.

I then issued
aticonfig --initial=dual-head --adapter=all.
This created the long xorg.conf file for all the cards on the system.
BUMPER !! Machine reboots and X looks like starting, then all of a sudden my screen shows "Digital Power saving" as the monitors go to sleep. No alternative but to cold turn power off machine and restart.

I tried other ad-hoc methods like starting from the simple xorg.conf from (aticonfig --initial -f) and then proceed under amdcclle to enable the other two ATI HD 3600 cards that  show up as disabled.  

When I reboot,  Computer comes on with X, but the second I try to logon both Mouse and Keyboard just FREEZE.

ANY HELP, ANY ONE, ANY IDEA. 

Attached Working Simple Xorg.conf-1 (For one HD 3600)
Freezing version of Xorg.conf-2 (For the 3 HD 3600 cards)

---

### Post by MrStark on 2010-05-01
Ok, i had the same issue reported here, like you i had the latest ati driver installed (i'm playing with opencl, i always keep my driver updated) and during the upgrade from 9.10 fglrx upgrade failed. And this lead here.
After a few hours of pain now it seems to be fixed (_100%working, 2d ok fast, compiz ok_, opencl support of the drivers not yet tested).
Basically i followed this as suggested:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)

@Younio:
Yes, even deleting didn't change anything.
The procedure i followed got a little messy... i'll try to reconstruct it here, hope it helps:

0- Started with the ati driver installed, crappy performance, no compiz.

1- Got out of the graphical mode, i my case  switched to one of the alt+Fn console and killed gdm.

2-
sudo /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh
sudo rm -rf /usr/share/ati
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf*

3- Just for the sake of documenting the steps, tried the commands from here:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)

Didn't work at all,various errors, couldn't delete the packages.
Out of desperation, i tried then to clean-up all the packages cited in that site:

 sudo apt-get purge fglrx*
 sudo apt-get purge xserver-xorg-video-ati xserver-xorg-video-radeon
 sudo apt-get purge xorg-driver-fglrx
 sudo apt-get purge libgl1-mesa-glx libgl1-mesa-dri xserver-x     org-core

The last one due to my lack of attention and to the x-org dependencies started deleting a few apps :) ... stopped.
This could have deleted something that needed to be updated but this seems improbable.

4-
sudo apt-get install fglrx
sudo apt-get install fglrx-amdcccle fglrx-dev fglrx-modaliases
sudo aticonfig --initial
reboot

5-
installed the compiz stuff from synaptic

So, i guess that if you skip step 3 you should be ok... if not the solution is in the mess i made at step 3.


@charonred:
No, compiz works with the standard 10.04 ati driver, all my attempt done with the ati site one were fruitless.
I suggest you to use a few hour to obtain a system with the ubuntu's fglrx (not the ati site one).
Also, after the procedure described above i noticed that the compiz manager gui had been updated... the options were grouped in a different way... e.g. cube in the same group of rotate cube.


Hope this helps...

---

### Post by jefdebruges on 2010-05-01
MrStark,

Thanks man, that helped. Always something with the ATI graphics. Now with the new driver, I can't use XBMC anymore. Back with 9.10, I used XBMC to get rid of the video tearing I got with gstreamer apps. The tearing is still present, but the ATI developers muffled it somewhat away. It's hardly noticable, so i'll wait patiently until ATI or the XBMC community comes with a new driver or patch. Again, thanks for the help! Always nice to find some solution on these forums! I still for 1000 times rather take these hassles than going back to the windows platform. Cheers!

---

### Post by NicoAdamo on 2010-05-01
Hi! I followed all the steps given. The only significant thing I can add is that always when removing something the package fglrx was mentioned by apt.get.
But when doing this:

4-
sudo apt-get install fglrx
sudo apt-get install fglrx-amdcccle fglrx-dev fglrx-modaliases
*sudo aticonfig --initial*
reboot

I can't run aticonfig because it was somehow removed among with some other package.

My problem is similar: Seduced by the "Would you like a full upgrade without downloading any iso, torrent, etc. or deleting everything, etc etc" window, I clicked "yes" and got a not working kubuntu-desktop. Tried to install the latest ati driver provided in the web (which to date remains the same, just checked) and nothing... When it comes to the logging in screen, the monitor starts blinking, as if the PC was sleeping or the resolution too high (which I don't think is the problem). All recovery actions were taken from a recovery mode boot. BTW, I noticed it's kind of unsafe: you can log as root without typing any passwords!

Thanks for every bit of effort you are all leaving here.

Regards,

Nicolás


----------
ADDED 30' later: Don't know how... but kubuntu DID boot... is my PC charmed? :) Obviously Catalyst is not installed; guess I'll have to wait until a new driver release from ATI's webpage.

---

### Post by charonred on 2010-05-01
MrStark, and others, thanks for all that. I'll try it later to see if I can get it working again as my system crapped out again and only runs in 'low graphic' mode now.

It's not such a problem though as I had it up and running enough to run some apps and generate a few files I needed. I am now booting to another disk running a clean install of 10.04 which I've migrated my email, browser and other essential apps to. I also have a backup of my Home folder on an external drive, so can get any data I need from that after I nuke the 9.10/10.04 drive. 

I'll do clean installs from now on, no more 'upgrade' installs!

On the upside, the clean install 10.04 boots fast; it's installed an a new WD 500 GB Black drive and from POST to working desktop boots in 35 seconds ! Damn that's fast ... and Shutdown takes just 5 seconds - Eat my dust Windoze !

---

### Post by Obamabuntu on 2010-05-01
Problem: On installation of the fglrx package, this error arises: 
> E: /var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_i386.deb: subprocess new pre-installation script returned error exit status 1


Here are the steps to solve this problem.

First, download the ati catalyst drivers from [**_here_**]("http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx"). (release date: 10.4)

Now, uninstall the fglrx packages first. Then, go where you downloaded the drivers and execute the installer. Next, remove the /usr/share/ati folder. Now you can install the fglrx package from the synaptics installer or from the terminal.

```

$ sudo apt-get remove --purge fglrx* 
$ sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xorg-video-ati 
$ sudo apt-get remove --purge xserver-xorg-video-radeon
$ sudo sh ati-driver-installer-10-4-x86.x86_64.run 
$ sudo rm -rf /usr/share/ati
$ sudo apt-get install fglrx

```

---

### Post by soapstarjoe on 2010-05-02
++Mr. Shark
Younio: I had the same issue. I got around it by manually removing the references(actually quite easy). Follow the instructions here: [http://caulfield.info/emmet/technology/linux/ubuntu/](http://caulfield.info/emmet/technology/linux/ubuntu/)

That got me to being able to uninstall my 9.10 driver. I then followed what mr.shark had to say along with doing 
aticonfig --initial -f

However, I still can't get the following to work:
multi gpu support--all my displays go into power savings and i have to hard reboot whenever i try.(i have two 4670's and 3 displays)
xenerama--i get the glitchy behavior [ask@refcapgroup.com]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=891554") reported.
big desktop--not sure how best to describe the failure conditions here--windows/desktops just don't work right--menus and windows aren't rendered on screen, etc--ended up hard rebooting and starting a fresh config to get out of it.

Anyone else had any luck with xenerama or multi gpus?

---

### Post by ask@refcapgroup.com on 2010-05-03
I went back to Ubuntu 9.10. Did a fresh install of 9.10. Multi GPU worked out of the box. Didn't need to do anything other than download catalyst from ati and then issue 
aticonfig --intial=dual-head --adapter=all.
All monitors working with Xinerama. This localizes the problem squarely on Ubuntu 10.04

---

### Post by Younio on 2010-05-03
> **soapstarjoe said:**
> 
Younio: I had the same issue. I got around it by manually removing the references(actually quite easy). Follow the instructions here: [http://caulfield.info/emmet/technology/linux/ubuntu/](http://caulfield.info/emmet/technology/linux/ubuntu/)


Thanks But i thought it would be quicker to do a fresh install, so i downloaded the 10.04 and installed it "on top of" my old one Of course, i lost my installed packages, but I installed them again, and all my settings, were saved too. And everything is working excellent. :)

---

### Post by darksaga on 2010-05-05
i did this
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

(changing this
```
sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-9-12-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/karmic
``` to this
```
sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-10-4-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/lucid
```
)
and it worked!
```

fakedrake@fakedrake-laptop:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3650
OpenGL version string: 3.2.9756 Compatibility Profile Context
fakedrake@fakedrake-laptop:~$ glxgears
31461 frames in 5.0 seconds
32325 frames in 5.0 seconds
32146 frames in 5.0 seconds
```

---

### Post by WarHawk-AVG on 2010-05-07
> **gamalicious said:**
> Deleting /usr/share/ati seemed to work for me as well. At least the initial install, haven't played with all the options yet. Thanks to Qianqian Fang and Younio.

Ditto!

Thanks to Qianqian Fang and Younio.

---

### Post by shoaib77 on 2010-05-07
Hello...

i installed Lucid (10.04) just a while ago and am facing similar problems to those faced by people on this thread. I tried doing various methods to get my ATI graphics working, but all have failed. I followed the steps explained by MrStark and Obamabuntu in vain. 

can anybody help me out? I started using Linux recently and have started liking it (when i was still on 9.04, Flawless). i hope i can get this problem fixed so i dont have to shift back to windows.

---

### Post by Pablo Somebody on 2010-05-08
Chalk me up as another who is pulling his hair out over fglrx in Lucid.

It all started with error during the upgrade; "E: /var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2:8.723.1-0ubuntu3_i386.deb". The end result was no fglrx by the end of the install.  I managed to fix it by deleting the deb file, purging the failed fglrx install, and reinstalling it.  It's now loaded, and I have my dual-monitors working in extended desktop mode.  However, performance is woeful. Moving windows is laggy and it's generally a bit unresponsive. mplayer gives a 'xv mode unsupported' error and gives about 1fps. OpenGL stuff just doesn't work.    In my xorg log file, I've tracked down a particular error:

>  Loading /usr/lib/xorg/extra-modules/modules/linux/libfglrxdrm.so
(II) Module fglrxdrm: vendor="FireGL - ATI Technologies Inc."
	compiled for 1.7.1, module version = 8.72.11
(II) ATI Proprietary Linux Driver Version Identifier:[color=red]8.72.11[/color]
(II) ATI Proprietary Linux Driver Release Identifier: 8.723.1                              
(II) ATI Proprietary Linux Driver Build Date: Apr  8 2010 21:40:29
<snip>
(II) fglrx(0): [uki] DRM interface version 1.0
(II) fglrx(0): [uki] created "fglrx" driver at busid "PCI:1:5:0"
(II) fglrx(0): [uki] added 8192 byte SAREA at 0x2000
(II) fglrx(0): [uki] mapped SAREA 0x2000 to 0xb783a000
(II) fglrx(0): [uki] framebuffer handle = 0x3000
(II) fglrx(0): [uki] added 1 reserved context for kernel
(II) fglrx(0): swlDriScreenInit done
(II) fglrx(0): Kernel Module Version Information:
(II) fglrx(0):     Name: fglrx
(II) fglrx(0):     Version: [color=red]8.72.5[/color]
(II) fglrx(0):     Date: Apr  6 2010
(II) fglrx(0):     Desc: ATI FireGL DRM kernel module
(WW) fglrx(0): Kernel Module version does *not* match driver.
(EE) fglrx(0): incompatible kernel module detected - HW accelerated OpenGL will not work
(II) fglrx(0): [uki] removed 1 reserved context for kernel
(II) fglrx(0): [uki] unmapping 8192 bytes of SAREA 0x2000 at 0xb783a000
(WW) fglrx(0): ***********************************************
(WW) fglrx(0): * DRI initialization failed!                  *
(WW) fglrx(0): * (maybe driver kernel module missing or bad) *
(WW) fglrx(0): * 2D acceleraton available (MMIO)             *
(WW) fglrx(0): * no 3D acceleration available                *
(WW) fglrx(0): ********************************************* *


I'm not the only one to have come across this:
[http://ohioloco.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9263369#post9263369](http://ohioloco.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9263369#post9263369).

I've tried to completely purge everything and reinstall it, but to no avail.  Does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by Chris Chandler on 2010-05-08
> **shoaib77 said:**
> Hello...

i installed Lucid (10.04) just a while ago and am facing similar problems to those faced by people on this thread. I tried doing various methods to get my ATI graphics working, but all have failed. I followed the steps explained by MrStark and Obamabuntu in vain. 

can anybody help me out? I started using Linux recently and have started liking it (when i was still on 9.04, Flawless). i hope i can get this problem fixed so i dont have to shift back to windows.

I am in a similar situation.  I have attempted the following methods to fix/install/otherwise troubleshoot fglrx:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI) (changing the appropriate file)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/565407](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/565407) (I have tried renaming the folder and also deleting the folder - currently the .../ati folder is deleted
[http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1450040&page=3](http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1450040&page=3)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1308009.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1308009.html)


When I enter sudo apt-get install fglrx into the command line, I have the following result:

> $ sudo apt-get install fglrx
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  fglrx
0 upgraded, 1 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
1 not fully installed or removed.
Need to get 0B/29.2MB of archives.
After this operation, 100MB of additional disk space will be used.
(Reading database ... 294481 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking fglrx (from .../fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_amd64.deb) ...
dpkg-divert: mismatch on package
  when removing `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1 by xorg-driver-fglrx'
  found `diversion of /usr/lib/libGL.so.1 to /usr/lib/nvidia/libGL.so.1.xlibmesa by nvidia-glx-185'
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_amd64.deb (--unpack):
 subprocess new pre-installation script returned error exit status 2
Errors were encountered while processing:
 /var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_amd64.deb
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)I'm really unsure what else to do, and would appreciate any help.

---
Ubuntu 10.04 (lucid)
GNOME 2.30.0
Kernel 2.6.32-22-generic
AMD Phenom 9850 Quad-Core w/ 5893MiB
ATI Radeon 5750

---

### Post by Pablo Somebody on 2010-05-09
I believe I solved that error by deleting the cached deb file, forcing it to download the correct version.
ie rm /var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_amd64.deb

---

### Post by Chris Chandler on 2010-05-09
> **Pablo Somebody said:**
> I believe I solved that error by deleting the cached deb file, forcing it to download the correct version.
ie rm /var/cache/apt/archives/fglrx_2%3a8.723.1-0ubuntu3_amd64.deb


This is one of the fixes I have tried, and I receive the same error as my initial post.  Update Manager came in with an update to fglrx, but it is also not cleanly installing at all.  The "fglrx-amdcccle" file is broken in synaptic and is halting the whole process.  I've marked it for complete removal and completely restarted the process a number of times, and I'm still receiving the same error.

---

### Post by Chris Chandler on 2010-05-10
Also,l this is the output when I attempt to follow the directions found here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

> $ sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-10-2-x86.x86_64.run --buildpkg Ubuntu/lucid
Created directory fglrx-install.REoYUS
Verifying archive integrity... All good.
Uncompressing ATI Proprietary Linux Driver-8.702................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
==================================================
 ATI Technologies Linux Driver Installer/Packager 
==================================================
Generating package: Ubuntu/lucid
Package build failed!
Package build utility output:
dpkg-buildpackage: set CFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
dpkg-buildpackage: set CPPFLAGS to default value: 
dpkg-buildpackage: set LDFLAGS to default value: -Wl,-Bsymbolic-functions
dpkg-buildpackage: set FFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
dpkg-buildpackage: set CXXFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
dpkg-buildpackage: source package fglrx-installer
dpkg-buildpackage: source version 2:8.702-0ubuntu1
dpkg-buildpackage: source changed by ATI Technologies Inc. <http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html>
 debian/rules build
dpkg-buildpackage: host architecture amd64
test -x debian/rules
mkdir -p "."
#Create important strings
for i in 10fglrx \
             dkms.conf \
             fglrx.install \
             fglrx-dev.install \
             fglrx-amdcccle.install \
             overrides/fglrx; do \
        sed -e "s|#XMODDIR#|usr/lib/xorg/modules|"     \
            -e "s|#XMODDIR32#||" \
            -e "s|#DRIDIR32#|usr/lib32|"   \
            -e "s|#LIBDIR#|lib64|"       \
            -e "s|#DRIDIR#|usr/lib|"       \
            -e "s|#CVERSION#|8.702|"   \
            -e "s|#XARCH#|x740_64a|"   \
            -e "s|#ARCH#|x86_64|"   \
            debian/$i.in > debian/$i;      \
    done
# remove exec bit on everything
find arch \
        etc \
        lib \
        module \
        usr \
        x740_64a     -type f | xargs chmod -x
find: `module': No such file or directory
# set executable on user apps
find arch/x86_64/usr/sbin \
        arch/x86_64/usr/X11R6/bin \
        usr/sbin/ -type f | xargs chmod a+x
# set exec bit on scripts
find lib etc debian -name "*.sh" -type f | xargs chmod +x
# Generate modaliases
sh -e debian/modaliases/fglrx_supported \
        x740_64a/usr/X11R6/lib64/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.so > \
        debian/modaliases/fglrx-modules.alias.override
 debian/rules binary
test -x debian/rules
dh_testroot
dh_clean -k 
dh_installdirs -A 
mkdir -p "."
#Create important strings
for i in 10fglrx \
             dkms.conf \
             fglrx.install \
             fglrx-dev.install \
             fglrx-amdcccle.install \
             overrides/fglrx; do \
        sed -e "s|#XMODDIR#|usr/lib/xorg/modules|"     \
            -e "s|#XMODDIR32#||" \
            -e "s|#DRIDIR32#|usr/lib32|"   \
            -e "s|#LIBDIR#|lib64|"       \
            -e "s|#DRIDIR#|usr/lib|"       \
            -e "s|#CVERSION#|8.702|"   \
            -e "s|#XARCH#|x740_64a|"   \
            -e "s|#ARCH#|x86_64|"   \
            debian/$i.in > debian/$i;      \
    done
# remove exec bit on everything
find arch \
        etc \
        lib \
        module \
        usr \
        x740_64a     -type f | xargs chmod -x
find: `module': No such file or directory
# set executable on user apps
find arch/x86_64/usr/sbin \
        arch/x86_64/usr/X11R6/bin \
        usr/sbin/ -type f | xargs chmod a+x
# set exec bit on scripts
find lib etc debian -name "*.sh" -type f | xargs chmod +x
# Generate modaliases
sh -e debian/modaliases/fglrx_supported \
        x740_64a/usr/X11R6/lib64/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.so > \
        debian/modaliases/fglrx-modules.alias.override
dh_installdirs -pfglrx 
dh_installdirs -pfglrx-dev 
dh_installdirs -pfglrx-amdcccle 
dh_installdirs -pfglrx-modaliases 
dh_installdocs -pfglrx   
dh_installexamples -pfglrx 
dh_installman -pfglrx  
dh_installinfo -pfglrx  
dh_installmenu -pfglrx 
dh_installcron -pfglrx 
dh_installinit -pfglrx   
Duplicate specification "O=s" for option "O"
dh_installdebconf -pfglrx 
dh_installemacsen -pfglrx   
dh_installcatalogs -pfglrx 
dh_installpam -pfglrx 
dh_installlogrotate -pfglrx 
dh_installlogcheck -pfglrx 
dh_installchangelogs -pfglrx   
dh_installudev -pfglrx 
dh_lintian -pfglrx 
dh_install -pfglrx  
dh_link -pfglrx  
dh_installmime -pfglrx 
#driver package
dh_install -p "arch/x86/usr/X11R6/lib/libAMD*.so*"           "usr/lib32"
cp: cannot stat `./usr/lib32': No such file or directory
dh_install: cp -a ./usr/lib32 debian/arch/x86/usr/X11R6/lib/libAMD*.so*//usr/ returned exit code 1
make: *** [binary-install/fglrx] Error 2
dpkg-buildpackage: error: debian/rules binary gave error exit status 2
dpkg-buildpackage: set CFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
dpkg-buildpackage: set CPPFLAGS to default value: 
dpkg-buildpackage: set LDFLAGS to default value: -Wl,-Bsymbolic-functions
dpkg-buildpackage: set FFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
dpkg-buildpackage: set CXXFLAGS to default value: -g -O2
dpkg-buildpackage: source package fglrx-installer
dpkg-buildpackage: source version 2:8.702-0ubuntu1
dpkg-buildpackage: source changed by ATI Technologies Inc. <http://ati.amd.com/support/driver.html>
 debian/rules build
dpkg-buildpackage: host architecture amd64
test -x debian/rules
mkdir -p "."
#Create important strings
for i in 10fglrx \
             dkms.conf \
             fglrx.install \
             fglrx-dev.install \
             fglrx-amdcccle.install \
             overrides/fglrx; do \
        sed -e "s|#XMODDIR#|usr/lib/xorg/modules|"     \
            -e "s|#XMODDIR32#||" \
            -e "s|#DRIDIR32#|usr/lib32|"   \
            -e "s|#LIBDIR#|lib64|"       \
            -e "s|#DRIDIR#|usr/lib|"       \
            -e "s|#CVERSION#|8.702|"   \
            -e "s|#XARCH#|x740_64a|"   \
            -e "s|#ARCH#|x86_64|"   \
            debian/$i.in > debian/$i;      \
    done
# remove exec bit on everything
find arch \
        etc \
        lib \
        module \
        usr \
        x740_64a     -type f | xargs chmod -x
find: `module': No such file or directory
# set executable on user apps
find arch/x86_64/usr/sbin \
        arch/x86_64/usr/X11R6/bin \
        usr/sbin/ -type f | xargs chmod a+x
# set exec bit on scripts
find lib etc debian -name "*.sh" -type f | xargs chmod +x
# Generate modaliases
sh -e debian/modaliases/fglrx_supported \
        x740_64a/usr/X11R6/lib64/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.so > \
        debian/modaliases/fglrx-modules.alias.override
 debian/rules binary
test -x debian/rules
dh_testroot
dh_clean -k 
dh_installdirs -A 
mkdir -p "."
#Create important strings
for i in 10fglrx \
             dkms.conf \
             fglrx.install \
             fglrx-dev.install \
             fglrx-amdcccle.install \
             overrides/fglrx; do \
        sed -e "s|#XMODDIR#|usr/lib/xorg/modules|"     \
            -e "s|#XMODDIR32#||" \
            -e "s|#DRIDIR32#|usr/lib32|"   \
            -e "s|#LIBDIR#|lib64|"       \
            -e "s|#DRIDIR#|usr/lib|"       \
            -e "s|#CVERSION#|8.702|"   \
            -e "s|#XARCH#|x740_64a|"   \
            -e "s|#ARCH#|x86_64|"   \
            debian/$i.in > debian/$i;      \
    done
# remove exec bit on everything
find arch \
        etc \
        lib \
        module \
        usr \
        x740_64a     -type f | xargs chmod -x
find: `module': No such file or directory
# set executable on user apps
find arch/x86_64/usr/sbin \
        arch/x86_64/usr/X11R6/bin \
        usr/sbin/ -type f | xargs chmod a+x
# set exec bit on scripts
find lib etc debian -name "*.sh" -type f | xargs chmod +x
# Generate modaliases
sh -e debian/modaliases/fglrx_supported \
        x740_64a/usr/X11R6/lib64/modules/drivers/fglrx_drv.so > \
        debian/modaliases/fglrx-modules.alias.override
dh_installdirs -pfglrx 
dh_installdirs -pfglrx-dev 
dh_installdirs -pfglrx-amdcccle 
dh_installdirs -pfglrx-modaliases 
dh_installdocs -pfglrx   
dh_installexamples -pfglrx 
dh_installman -pfglrx  
dh_installinfo -pfglrx  
dh_installmenu -pfglrx 
dh_installcron -pfglrx 
dh_installinit -pfglrx   
Duplicate specification "O=s" for option "O"
dh_installdebconf -pfglrx 
dh_installemacsen -pfglrx   
dh_installcatalogs -pfglrx 
dh_installpam -pfglrx 
dh_installlogrotate -pfglrx 
dh_installlogcheck -pfglrx 
dh_installchangelogs -pfglrx   
dh_installudev -pfglrx 
dh_lintian -pfglrx 
dh_install -pfglrx  
dh_link -pfglrx  
dh_installmime -pfglrx 
#driver package
dh_install -p "arch/x86/usr/X11R6/lib/libAMD*.so*"           "usr/lib32"
cp: cannot stat `./usr/lib32': No such file or directory
dh_install: cp -a ./usr/lib32 debian/arch/x86/usr/X11R6/lib/libAMD*.so*//usr/ returned exit code 1
make: *** [binary-install/fglrx] Error 2
dpkg-buildpackage: error: debian/rules binary gave error exit status 2
Removing temporary directory: fglrx-install.REoYUS


---

### Post by mbrx on 2010-05-11
Hi,

A somewhat hackish solution that seemed to solve this problem for me on two desktops that I upgraded was the following:

$ sudo bash
# cd /usr/share/ati
# export FORCE_ATI_UNINSTALL="yes"
# ./fglrx-uninstall.sh
# exit

After this I could resume installing the fglrx package through synaptic or jockey (as you like).  Note however that the previous error message by synaptic said that this was not recommended, but it's worked well for me.

EDIT: never mind, I see now that the instructions above are dealing with this in a better way

---

### Post by marcoftheknight on 2010-05-19
Hey ,
So your Force remove worked the best that was the easiest way to fix the problem worked immediately . Nice especially because I dont feel like spending days getting my driver working 
This worked for me:

$ sudo bash
# cd /usr/share/ati
# export FORCE_ATI_UNINSTALL="yes"
# ./fglrx-uninstall.sh
# exit

THanks mbrx I know its now the best solution but it not bad.

---

### Post by StonedSidney on 2010-05-25
This worked for me too although it took a couple of tries to get the export variable to work, then finally the uninstall script ran. Synapic still showed fglrx as being installed and threw an error when I tried Complete Removal.

Jockey said no prop drivers were in use and offered nothing. In synapic I chose Reinstall fglrx, and Install ccc.

I used [PHP]sudo aticonfig --initial[/PHP] which created a clean xorg.conf

Now everything works fine, including desktop effects.

Thanks.

---

### Post by donnyw on 2010-05-26
Help! I've tried every variation of every method suggested on this thread so far and haven't had much luck.

Here are a couple of the things that haven't worked.

Purge everything fglrx related
Install ATI driver
Remove /usr/share/ati
Install fglrx again

Purging fglrx and just installing the ATI driver

Force uninstalling the ATI driver and installing fglrx

Purging fglrx, reinstalling fglrx, then installing the ATI driver

Using the open source drivers

All of these methods either leave me with a system that won't make it past the splash screen, or if I do manage to boot, I'm stuck with a single display being mirrored on both my monitors. CCC tells me

"There was a problem initializing Catalyst Control Center Linux edition. It could be caused by the following.

No ATI graphics driver is installed, or the ATI driver is not functioning properly.
Please install the ATI driver appropriate for your ATI hardware, or configure using aticonfig"

I just really want to be able to use both my monitors as an extended desktop, that's all! This worked fine until I hit 10.04, and now it's been a huge hassle. I would really appreciate any advice here. Thanks guys.

---

### Post by 0e8h on 2010-05-27
Same problem.  Pathetic ATI driver crew can't make drivers.

Next video card purchase, Nvidia.  Thanks ATI, u lamers...

---

### Post by StonedSidney on 2010-05-27
> **donnyw said:**
> Help! I've tried every variation of every method suggested on this thread so far and haven't had much luck.

Here are a couple of the things that haven't worked.

Purge everything fglrx related
Install ATI driver
Remove /usr/share/ati
Install fglrx again

After this did CCC work? Mine did at first, without errors, but display was still unusable at this point, and Compiz wouldn't work.
Also, did you see anything like the fglrxinfo output here: [http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9355828#post9355828](http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9355828#post9355828)

Did you get any problem uninstalling fglrx, or did the unistaller give you a confirmation message of success (it should have)? 

If so, then have faith, somehow I got through this and I'm a bit of a newb.


> 
Purging fglrx and just installing the ATI driver

Force uninstalling the ATI driver and installing fglrx

Purging fglrx, reinstalling fglrx, then installing the ATI driver

Using the open source drivers

All of these methods either leave me with a system that won't make it past the splash screen, or if I do manage to boot, I'm stuck with a single display being mirrored on both my monitors. CCC tells me

Yep, you have to reboot each time. At least 10.04 boots quick... but still a drag.
> 
"There was a problem initializing Catalyst Control Center Linux edition. It could be caused by the following.

No ATI graphics driver is installed, or the ATI driver is not functioning properly.
Please install the ATI driver appropriate for your ATI hardware, or configure using aticonfig"

I just really want to be able to use both my monitors as an extended desktop, that's all! This worked fine until I hit 10.04, and now it's been a huge hassle. I would really appreciate any advice here. Thanks guys.
HTH

---

### Post by donnyw on 2010-05-27
CCC would never work, it always gave me the same error message. I ended up just doing a clean install of 9.10. Not sure if I'll upgrade to 10.04 anytime soon, as this is my work machine and I can't really spend the time fighting with it if it doesn't work.

---

### Post by marcoftheknight on 2010-05-31
This is for anyone who installed the ati drivers from the AMD site and followed the install instruction. THere are PURGE driver instructions in that pdf that explain how romove the ati catalyst and drivers after that is done download the latest driver and follow the install instructions. this worked for me.
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx)

Read carefully and download the right driver and it will work like a charm :)
Thanks

---

### Post by Dimarchi on 2010-05-31
Do make sure your video card is supported by the drivers and the Ubuntu version you are using. I'm sure I'm just stating the obvious facts, but repetition is the mommy of something... ;) Drivers around version release times can be particularly tricky things. If it is not necessary for some critical feature that you need and it might be fixed in the new drivers, stick with what works.

I believe fglrx replaces Mesa libraries, so when you uninstall fglrx those should be restored.

Anyway...this thread is oozing wisdom in regards to fglrx as far as I can tell.

---

### Post by bareil76 on 2010-09-02
If someone, ever read this old thread again. I just ran into the same problem and have been able to fix it using different method.

I used synaptic manager to completely uninistall every fglrx pacgakes I had.. but left fglrx-modaliases (dont ask me why).

Then I downloaded the latest version of my driver on ATI website. did ctrl-alt-F1 to log into command line and did 

sudo sh ./ati-driver-installer-10-8-x86.x86_64.run


Restarted computer and fglrxinfo now says

display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Radeon HD 4300/4500 Series    
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (3.3.10151 Compatibility Profile Context)

---

### Post by Col-1023 on 2010-09-22
I'm having the same problem as younio earlier in this thread with diversion mismatches and fglrx not fully installed/uninstalled.

I've tried the methods in the troubleshooting guide to no effect.

My system boots in low-graphics mode and is functional, but I want the ati drivers to set fan-speed of my hd4870 card.

Looking at Mr sharks steps, I'm interested in his steps 1 & 2.

Since i'm in low graphics mode will step 2 cause my system any futher problems, I don't want to make my problem worse.

Do I need to issue this commands in terminal mode, ie when I boot the pc i get the option to boot into low graphics mode, or a terminal, should I issue these commands in the terminal mode.

When I tried the commands in the troubleshooting guide, I was using a terminal, but in the low-graphics mode, ie with the gui desktop working, should I have tried those commands in terminal mode as well?

Mr shark mentions killing gdm, what does this mean?

I didn't find this thread until I had created my own here, [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1579227](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1579227).

Any help very much appreciated.



> **MrStark said:**
> 
@Younio:
Yes, even deleting didn't change anything.
The procedure i followed got a little messy... i'll try to reconstruct it here, hope it helps:

0- Started with the ati driver installed, crappy performance, no compiz.

1- Got out of the graphical mode, i my case  switched to one of the alt+Fn console and killed gdm.

2-
sudo /usr/share/ati/fglrx-uninstall.sh
sudo rm -rf /usr/share/ati
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf*


Hope this helps...

---

### Post by veko on 2010-09-22
I have the same problem, I think it's because of this kernel bug, which is supposed to be fixed(?) in future relleases:[ https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/642518]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/642518")

I'll be waiting.

---

### Post by Col-1023 on 2010-09-22
Thanks Veko for the link, very informative.

My problem is UNINSTALLING the fglrx driver first, hence my questions in the post above, I want to uninstall fglrx without borking my system.

---

### Post by Col-1023 on 2010-09-22
I've just found that I have no /usr/share/ari folder, so I have no need to remove that.

However my xorg.conf files still are full of ati and fglrx references, so I'll probably have to delete them.

---

### Post by Col-1023 on 2010-09-22
I seemed to have solved my problem for removing fglrx.

This link [http://caulfield.info/emmet/technology/linux/ubuntu/](http://caulfield.info/emmet/technology/linux/ubuntu/), provided by Soapstarjoe on the top of page 3 help me remove the diversions causing my problem.

Now synaptic says fgltx is not installed, and not broken.

I checked with hardware drivers and it says that ati drivers are NOT ACTIVATED.

I won't try to activate the drivers because of the issue raised by Veko in his post above.

---

### Post by veko on 2010-09-23
> **Col-1023 said:**
> 
I won't try to activate the drivers because of the issue raised by Veko in his post above.

It seems that this is now fixed in fglrx package. It's released for Lucid and available from the repos as "proposed update".

For me the fix works. I uninstalled fglrx, installed the proposed updates, run "aticonfig --initial" and rebooted -  and fglrx works!  For the rest of  you, as always, proceed with caution.

Thanks to developers, one problem less.

---

### Post by Col-1023 on 2010-09-24
I'm wondering if fglrx is completely uninstalled.

david@liberator:~$ glxinfo |grep vendor
server glx vendor string: SGI
client glx vendor string: Mesa Project and SGI
OpenGL vendor string: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
david@liberator:~$ 


Does The Fact the command reports opengl vendor string as adanved micro devices mean there is still a part of fglrx installed, or is this part of the open source drivers.

If it is a part of fglrx, how do I remove it?

TIA

---

### Post by kmas on 2010-09-25
I think my issue is related to the previous ones in this thread. 1st to begin with I have an ATI HD Radeon 5000 series and i'm running 10.04 AMD_64. After installing ubuntu I used Jockey (Ubuntu Control Center > Hardware Drivers) to update my graphics card. but I got an error message: 

```
package fglrx 2:8.721-0ubuntu8 failed to install/upgrade: fglrx kernel module failed to build
```

Couple of days afterwards, an update was released, and the package is now fglrx 2:8.723.1-0ubuntu5. There was also an update for the kernel 2.6.32.25.27. 

Following the instructions from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9209703&postcount=16]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9209703&postcount=16") and [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver") I was able to update the driver and I think its working correctly. 

```
phynx@phynx-laptop:~$ fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI Mobility Radeon HD 5000 Series 
OpenGL version string: 3.2.9756 Compatibility Profile Context
```

AND

```
phynx@phynx-laptop:~$ glxinfo |grep vendor
server glx vendor string: ATI
client glx vendor string: ATI
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
```

AND 

```
phynx@phynx-laptop:~$ lspci -nn | grep Radeon
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller [0300]: ATI Technologies Inc Redwood [Radeon HD 5600 Series] [1002:68c1]
01:00.1 Audio device [0403]: ATI Technologies Inc Redwood HDMI Audio [Radeon HD 5600 Series] [1002:aa60]

```

AND

```
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Now here are my issues. 
1- The video is very laggy with compiz and videos. I used Google Earth to sometimes determine if the driver is not working very well. There are evidents cuts in the reendering of the images, when I use compiz show desktop, there is an evident lag, and the effects are visibly not working as they supposed to be. Unfortunately this issue is very hard to document, and not sure how to. 

2- I decided to update to a newer driver using the [X UPDATES PPA]("https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates") that has  fglrx-installer 2:8.780-0ubuntu1. The problem with that update is that, after reboot, I only have a black screen. When I go to recovery, it acts like fglrx and amdccle are not there. 

```
$ aticonfig --initial
Found fglrx primary device section
 Unable to find any supported Screen sections
```

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/642518]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/642518") supposed to have fixed my issue, but i tried different ways, using everything i could gather in this thread but no luck. Can someone orient me on how to at least troubleshoot this issue?

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2010-09-26
I too had trouble after initial upgrade to lucid. What I discovered was that lucid does a lot better job of finding and installing the proprietary drivers by itself than Jaunty. Conversely the manual installation of drivers from the ATI site is getting harder and harder to the extent that in Lucid it is now painful and difficult bordering on broken.

My advice is that anyone upgrading from Jaunty to Lucid who has been used to installing drivers manually from the ATI site should stop doing it this way and should use the Hardware Drivers tool to install proprietary drivers instead. That is the method that seems to give best results for most people in Lucid.

---

