---
title: "14.04 - need to add the latest driver from intel source"
date: 2014-06-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-28
i'm trying to get OpenGL 2.xx support on my old laptop with a built-in Intel 915 GPU.  The a site has a download of the source for the linux driver which includes OpenGL 2.xx.   I've been having a *heck* of a time trying to figure this out.  I had another thread opened on this but I really don't think it should be as hard as it seems to be.  I've decided to drop that thread and put a cry out here for a little more distinct description of my problem and hopefully a simpler solution to adding it.

Here is the link:[http://cgit.freedesktop.org/mesa/mesa/commit/?id=97217a40f97cdeae0304798b607f704deb0c3558](http://cgit.freedesktop.org/mesa/mesa/commit/?id=97217a40f97cdeae0304798b607f704deb0c3558)

thank you!

EDIT:  After the download and extract I ran autogen but it gave an error - just running configure shows this error:

```
.
.
.
.
checking for VDPAU... yes
checking for XCB_DRI2... yes
checking for llvm-config... no
checking for RADEON... yes
configure: error: LLVM is required to build Gallium R300 on x86 and x86_64
me@oldlap:~/Downloads/mesa-opengl2$
```


EDIT-EDIT:  Installed llvm via the software center and reran configure successfully.  Trie the make and it fails with these messages at the end;```
.
.
.
.
/bin/mkdir -p ../../src/glsl/glcpp
  LEX      glcpp/glcpp-lex.c
make  all-recursive
make[3]: Entering directory `/home/me/Downloads/mesa-opengl2/src/glsl'
Making all in builtin_compiler
make[4]: Entering directory `/home/me/Downloads/mesa-opengl2/src/glsl/builtin_compiler'
  CXX      glsl_lexer.lo
  CXX      glsl_parser.lo
glsl_parser.cpp: In function 'int _mesa_glsl_parse(_mesa_glsl_parse_state*)':
glsl_parser.cpp:2622:41: error: 'scanner' was not declared in this scope
make[4]: *** [glsl_parser.lo] Error 1
make[4]: Leaving directory `/home/me/Downloads/mesa-opengl2/src/glsl/builtin_compiler'
make[3]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[3]: Leaving directory `/home/me/Downloads/mesa-opengl2/src/glsl'
make[2]: *** [all] Error 2
make[2]: Leaving directory `/home/me/Downloads/mesa-opengl2/src/glsl'
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/me/Downloads/mesa-opengl2/src'
make: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
me@oldlap:~/Downloads/mesa-opengl2$ 
```
I don't know where to go now.  do i try to edit the c file - perhaps a variable whose scope doesn't allow it to be referenced?  Perhaps it needs to be either a global, passed as an option, or pointer to it?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-06-29
Ubuntu reverted the patch you linked to because it causes problems with Unity: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mesa/+bug/1222602](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mesa/+bug/1222602)

Quite frankly, you're probably better off with another distro than trying to build mesa from scratch.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-06-29
Also, you may want to try:
```
export MESA_GL_VERSION_OVERRIDE=2.1; glxinfo
```

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-29
I'm running xubuntu, so I don't need to worry about the problem with unity.  I tried the export of the variable as you showed.  It changed one value further down in the list, but this still shows at the front end:

```
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes
server glx vendor string: SGI
server glx version string: 1.4
server glx extensions:
    GLX_ARB_create_context, GLX_ARB_create_context_profile, 
    GLX_ARB_fbconfig_float, GLX_ARB_framebuffer_sRGB, GLX_ARB_multisample, 
    GLX_EXT_create_context_es2_profile, GLX_EXT_framebuffer_sRGB, 
    GLX_EXT_import_context, GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap, GLX_EXT_visual_info, 
    GLX_EXT_visual_rating, GLX_INTEL_swap_event, GLX_MESA_copy_sub_buffer, 
    GLX_OML_swap_method, GLX_SGIS_multisample, GLX_SGIX_fbconfig, 
    GLX_SGIX_pbuffer, GLX_SGIX_visual_select_group, GLX_SGI_swap_control
client glx vendor string: Mesa Project and SGI
client glx version string: 1.4
client glx extensions: 
```

I was pointed to the thread I posted by another page on the net the stated OpenGL2 support was added for the 915 including in Linux.  Since I'm not using Unity, is there any other reason why  *shouldn't* be trying to get this to get this to work?  Seems like if I'm not using Unity and the support for OpenGL2 for Linux is in the package, I should be able to build it somehow.

The current error indicates  coding error - the variable in question - "scanner" is used in one of the header files the piece of code in question uses.  Somewhere in the code it is not being used correctly - hence the scope error.  I looked on the page I used to get the download, but there's nothing listed about contacts.

EDIT:  BTW, since all the export of the variable is doing is changing a value, not providing the actual OpenGL2 support, seems like anything the actually requires OpenGL2 would still fail.  I don't know a lot about it, but I've done a little research and some things were added.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-06-29
You're confusing OpenGL with GL**X** version. GLX should be 1.4. (Even on my current system, with Nvidia card/driver supporting OpenGL 3.3, the GLX version is 1.4.)

> since all the export of the variable is doing is changing a value, not providing the actual OpenGL2 support, seems like anything the actually requires OpenGL2 would still fail.
If you look at the patch you linked to, that is also what it's doing.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-29
Well, if that's the case, it's probably not going to work.  I'll give it a try, but not keeping my hopes up.  Didn't know about the GLX vs OpenGL, etc..  These things are like so many others - completely "foreign" to me, so I really appreciate your help and guidance on this!!

Thanks again!!

Dave ;)

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-29
Well, it didn't work for what I was trying.  I was trying to get OpenRA going since I helped someone with that a little while back and thought I'd give it a go as well.  It still comes up and says it found OpenGL 1.4 and it needs 2.x to run.

Oh well, it was worth a shot!

Can't thank you enough for your help, your patience and you knowledge!

Thanks so much!!

Dave ;)

Consider this thread solved as there is no resolution.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-06-29
The game's requirements call for shader model 2.0 support:
> Shader Model 2.0 capable GPU (Radeon 9500+ / GeForce FX5200+ / **GMA X3100+**)

The GMA 900 you have doesn't accelerate vertex shaders, so even if you got the game to run, it would probably be laggy (at best) or a 2 FPS slideshow.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-29
Thanks!  Like I said, I don't know squat abou any of this, so I appreciate the information so I can learn more.

And now for another novice question:  what are vertex shaders? ;)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-06-29
The gory technical details - [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shader](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shader)
The important thing to take away is that your GPU doesn't fully support Shader Model 2.0 or hardware T&L, so make sure your game/app doesn't require that..

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-29
Thanks!

---

