---
title: "S-Video- an easier way?"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sirdouglas on 2008-11-07
First off, let me say that I love Linux.  I recently made the switch from Windows (was getting quite fed up with it) and chose Ubuntu to start off using Linux.  It looks sexy, it's faster, I feel like there are so many options with it, love the community, etc, etc.  

BUT simple tasks are sometimes so complicated.  I don't get it, the people developing Linux are geniuses and have developed a fabulous system with amazing capabilities, but somehow bypassed the part "easy-to-use."  S-Video: super easy with Windows- plug it in, choose screen-clone or extended desktop, and wa-lah!  With Linux, I swear I screw something up on my computer every time trying S-Video (which you guys graciously helped me with before).  Problems:

1) Plugged it into TV and amazingly I got an image on the TV BUT my taskbar from my laptop disappeared, only showing up on the TV (and almost impossible to read).
2) After changing the settings back to normal and unplugging, things looked good... until I restarted my computer to find that the taskbars were gone again.  I had to plug in the S-Video to the same TV to have access to it and change the settings once again.  Now I'm afraid to restart my computer again because I don't even know how to run applications with the taskbar gone.  I *know* Linux isn't supposed to be a clone of Windows, but I really like the "right-click on the desktop" option, allowing me to change display properties (S-Video).  It would make things so much easier.

Alright, I'm done.  Thanks guys for listening.  Is there a super-easy-to-use guide for using S-Video with Ubuntu?.. would be appreciated, thanks!

Doug

---

### Post by unknown03 on 2008-11-08
I have the same exact problem as of right now.. Has ANYONE found a solution?

After I install the EnvyNG drivers for my Geforce 8600GT the resolution screws up and The important edges of the screens are cut off

---

### Post by sirdouglas on 2008-11-15
Here's a bump showing I obviously didn't figure it out yet:(
Anybody?  Thanks!
-Doug

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-11-15
Can you run theses 2 from a terminal and posts the outputs please - can you use code tags to surround the pasted output.

Have you installed any drivers for the gpu?

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
lspci
```

---

### Post by sirdouglas on 2008-11-16
Thanks!  Alright, so I typed in the command line and here is the result:

sirdouglas@sirdouglas-laptop:~$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"B140EW01V1"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"B140EW01V1"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x768"
		Virtual	2048 777
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

---------------------------------------------------------------

I don't really know what it all means (I'm quite the newbie) and I haven't installed any extra drivers, nor do I really know how to, eek!  Thanks for the help!

Doug

EDIT: BTW, the screen that comes on my TV is in black and white!  The image is also a bit sketchy.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-11-16
I guess the driver must be installed - it's there in xorg

> Identifier "Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
Driver "intel"

Please run
```
lspci |grep VGA
```

If no output run the other one from my previous.
If you are getting an output on the TV but it's not 'correct' then we should just need to add the necessary information. Where are you located - do you use NTSC or PAL?

---

### Post by sirdouglas on 2008-11-19
Thanks, appreciate the response.  I typed in the terminal and this what I got:

sirdouglas@sirdouglas-laptop:~$ lspci |grep VGA
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 03)
sirdouglas@sirdouglas-laptop:~$ 

The output on the TV is still black and white without the clearest resolution.  I connected it by turning on the TV, plugging in the S-Video, going to System> Preferences> Screen Resolution... then two "screens" were available to click on: "Laptop 15"" or "Unknown."  I clicked on "Unknown" and then chose "resolution 1024 768 4:3" and then "Apply."

My laptop and I are from the United States, but I'm currently living in Brazil.  Unfortunately I don't know if I have PAL or NTSC.  Any ideas?  Thanks so much!

Doug

---

