---
title: "10.04 Will not boot up properly"
date: 2011-02-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Lucidmez on 2011-02-16
Due to some prior issues which I believe to be self inflicted I decided to wipe my system and start fresh.  My fresh install appeared to do the trick for a day or two but after running the update manager  recently I found myself in trouble.  When starting up I receive the message **Kernel panic - not syncing: Attempted to kill init!**  Nothing seems to jog the computer from this black screen except shutting off the power.  I've read through some threads of people having similar issues but can't quite figure out what I need to do.  I have a Nvidia graphics card which has popped up as a potential problem, too, but not sure if it is my problem or not.   I did read through enough to learn how to run the boot script and will post it below.  If anyone can help pinpoint the issue I would appreciate it greatly.

Here is a little history that may or may not be relevant.  I'll try to make it brief.  My original install was Ubuntu 9.10 Karmic Koala which always worked great.  I upgraded to 10.04 Lucid Lynx (through update manager) when it was available and it too worked great until I tried installing a program one day forgetting that I had the update manager running already running as well.  The computer didn't seem to like this and never worked well after, thus, leading me to wipe and start fresh.  What's odd to me is that I had made a CD for 10.04 from the Ubuntu website as well as the one I had for 9.10 but I could never get it to work when I needed help.  I always have to revert back to the Karmic disc when I want boot help.  If I put the 10.04 disc in whatever issue I'm having surfaces just the same.  Is this because I didn't originally install from that disc?

Anyway, here is the promised boot script.  FYI, I ran it today 2/16/11.  I guess the date is incorrect because I'm running the system from the CD.  Thank you for your time and help!

               Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for /boot/grub.
 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  Grub 2
    Boot sector info:  Grub 2 is installed in the boot sector of sda1 and 
                       looks at sector 615663 of the same hard drive for 
                       core.img, but core.img can not be found at this 
                       location.
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS
    Boot files/dirs:   /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       Extended Partition
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda5: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sdb1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Grub 2
    Boot sector info:  Grub 2 is installed in the boot sector of sdb1 and 
                       looks at sector 675599 of the same hard drive for 
                       core.img, but core.img can not be found at this 
                       location. No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  
    Boot files/dirs:   

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 82.0 GB, 81964302336 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9964 cylinders, total 160086528 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0000fff9

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *             63   155,573,459   155,573,397  83 Linux
/dev/sda2         155,573,460   160,071,659     4,498,200   5 Extended
/dev/sda5         155,573,523   160,071,659     4,498,137  82 Linux swap / Solaris


Drive: sdb ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sdb: 10.3 GB, 10262568960 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 1247 cylinders, total 20044080 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x30823081

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sdb1                  63    20,033,054    20,032,992   7 HPFS/NTFS


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/loop0                                              squashfs                                 
/dev/sda1        8d42ba89-dd01-4d1a-9707-1a5f4811f053   ext4                                     
/dev/sda5        6bbf5640-3af9-46d8-9e43-4c3d21a8fc1a   swap                                     
/dev/sdb1        A844979F44976EB6                       ntfs       File-Space                    

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

aufs             /                        aufs       (rw)
/dev/sr1         /cdrom                   iso9660    (rw)
/dev/loop0       /rofs                    squashfs   (rw)
/dev/sda1        /media/8d42ba89-dd01-4d1a-9707-1a5f4811f053 ext4       (rw,nosuid,nodev,uhelper=devkit)
/dev/sdb1        /media/File-Space        fuseblk    (rw,nosuid,nodev,allow_other,default_permissions,blksize=4096)


=============================== sda1/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=8d42ba89-dd01-4d1a-9707-1a5f4811f053 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=6bbf5640-3af9-46d8-9e43-4c3d21a8fc1a none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd1       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom1   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda1: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


    .3GB: boot/grub/core.img
    .3GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic
    .5GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-28-generic
    .3GB: vmlinuz.old

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-02-16
There are a few possible irregularities showing in the RESULTS.txt file, the main one being that although you have two instances of grub2 on the machine, one on each disk, you do not appear to have the main, necessary configuration file, ie /boot/grub/grub.cfg available on either disk.  It should be on sda as that is where you seem to have ubuntu installed.

Just out of interest, try setting the other disk to the current one, to be the first boot device.  I think that is unlikely to help, but you never know.

You say that the CD of 10.04 will not boot so I suspect that it was a bad iso file that you downloaded, or a bad burn of the iso to CD.  Check the iso file against the published md5sum hashes at [UbuntuHashes - MD5sum]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes") either using your old 9.04 CD or in windows if necessary; see [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM) and if the iso is OK check the CD (if you can get it to boot) from the first menu that appears if you hit return at the first screen you see.

---

### Post by Lucidmez on 2011-02-18
Thanks for the advice but no luck.  I decided to give 10.10 a try since my last wipe was only a couple of days old.  My 10.04 iso might have some issues because the 10.10 disc booted okay.  I thought I'd checked it (10.04 disc) before but it's quite possible I didn't.  I'd forgotten I'd made a 10.10 disc, too.  Anyway, I'm fresh again and we'll see how this works out.

BTW, one small that was probably worth mentioning is that when using the 9.10 disc before it would say I had a disc with errors after booting to desktop.  The disc utility would pop up in the top panel telling me the hard drive had many bad sectors which lead me to believe my hard drive is failing but when I run the self tests on it, it always says everything is okay.  And it never mentioned any issues prior to my boot problem, nor does it now.  So, I'm running this thing as lean as possible for awhile and see how it goes.  Thanks again.  Everyone here is great about giving help.  As frustrating as it can be it's nothing compared to trying to figure what's wrong with a Windows machine.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-02-18
There was a bug in 9.10 palimpsest which threw disk errors in many cases when none existed.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libatasmart/+bug/438136](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/libatasmart/+bug/438136)

---

