---
title: "[SOLVED] No sound, for no [apparent] reason!  HELP!"
date: 2008-08-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bilijoe on 2008-08-17
I'm sure, when I get this sorted out, I'm going to feel pretty foolish, but...

I have a run-of-the-mill Dell Optiplex system, and have been running Ubuntu 8.04.1 for quite some time now, with no real problems at all.  The other day I rented a DVD (Amazing Grace--an amazing true story--highly recommended), that was in some kind of strange format.  It played like any ordinary DVD on my DVD player, but I wanted to watch it on my computer.  When I put it in the drive, it acted like a data disk, and opened up a browser that showed many folders that clearly did not have anything to do with the movie.  They were (apparently) additional features for teachers, preachers, etc., to use in teaching situations (the movie is about the abolition of the slave trade in Great Britian--and the [associated] origin of the hymn Amazing Grace).  

Anyway, I deduced that maybe the reason the computer wouldn't see the disk as a movie was because of a missing codec, so I used Synaptec, and installed everything that looked like it was, or might contain any codecs I didn't have installed.  Still, the computer thought it was a data disk.  There was a folder that [pretty] obviously contained the movie, but when I opened it and clicked on what looked like the movie file, I got a movie-like screen that said "To watch this movie on your computer, open your DVD player".  I tried all sorts of things, using both Totem and VLC--dragging and dropping,  using the player's menu to "open disk", etc.  Still no luck.  So I surveyed Synaptic, found "Mplayer" and installed it.  It did the same thing.  At some point, I don't remember exactly why, but I turned down the volume on all the players (they were not running simultaneously, or anything like that), and the "master volume" on the top panel.  I don't recall muting anything, just turning the volume all the way down (though some of the apps seem to go into mute when you do that).  

Well, I finally gave up, and watched the movie in the living room, on a regular DVD player (excellent movie).  When I came back to the computer later, nothing would produce any sound.  Ah! I remembered, I'd turned everything all the way down.  So I opened up every app I remember using, and turned the volume back up, including the master volume.  Still, no sound.  So I opened the mixer and made sure the volume on all the appropriate items was turned up.  I also opened the sound properties (System>Preferences>Sound) and,as best as I could understand what was going on in that preferences window, checked everything I could think of.  None of the "test" buttons yielded any sound.  I got the graphic (moving bar), but no sound.  All the system sounds were set, but pressing "Play" or preview, or whatever it is, yielded no sound from any of them.  

I have a second HDD in my system, which was the only HDD in the system, when I was running 7.10.  Normally, it remains unmounted, but I left it in the system because, if I go into the BIOS setup, and disable the current HDD, the system then boots to my old 7.10, exactly as I had left it.  So, thinking that I must somehow have blown my audio hardware (which is on the main board), I booted back to my 7.10 system to test things.  Poof, just like that, perfectly normal sound, from any and every source.  Obviously, not a hardware problem.  I looked at a few things (like the Sound preferences, in particular) to see if there was anything obvious that was different between the two systems.  Everything looked the same.  So I re-enabled the new HDD, and booted back to 8.04.1.  The sound was still dead as a dornail.  

So, .... HELP!  What can I possibly be overlooking?  I'm as sure as I can be that the sound still worked normally, after all the stuff I installed, so I don't think this is the result of something recently installed (though, at this point, I feel like I don't know anything, so I could be wrong--but I'm pretty sure it all worked after the installs, and before I turned all the various volume controls down).  I'm really lost here.  I'm a retired computer professional, and I really feel like I should be able to figure out a simple (I thought) sound problem, but I'm at my wit's end.  If anybody has any suggestions, or ideas, or advice, or magic wand, or incantation, or spell that might help, PLEEZE let me know.  I'd hate to go crazy over something as trivial as a computer sound problem.

Addendum:  I don't know if this will help make any sense out of this, but I just noticed that the "Play/Pause" button in my Pandora Radio display is working (or is displayed) backwards.  I can only tell this by watching the little progress bar at the bottom of the currently playing selection's display, as I still cannot hear ANYTHING from any application or from the system.

---

