---
title: "13.04 - back up a large drive of media files"
date: 2013-08-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by squakie on 2013-08-16
I have a large drive that I have put some media files on (music, movies, pictures) and while not huge by any means what I have done so far is up over 180 gb on a 2 tb external USB drive.  I got to thinking that before I spend much more time on this it would be wise to back up what I have done so far since it's a significant amount of time that's involved.

Here's where I have a little quandry:  I just have the single 2TB drive which I am using only for media files, plus the hard drive in the PC itself (much smaller).  So I could use 120 or so DVD's to back it up so far (can you say sounds ludicrious? ;) ).  But.......if there is any other way of doing it (free or just the price of media) I'd sure like to know.  I think it's too big to put on one of the online backup deals - not to mention they cost money I don't have.  Am I going to be pretty much stuck with getting another equal sized drive to back up to?

Thanks!

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2013-08-16
My vote: Get a new hard drive as a secondary backup. Can be another hard drive or a dedicated NAS drives. I feel safe this way. If data is important (family photo and videos) it will be worth the money.
Some good drives [http://reviews.cnet.com/best-external-storage-drives/](http://reviews.cnet.com/best-external-storage-drives/)

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-08-17
Yeah - I was thinking that was probably the only practical way to do this.  There are many old family photos from my genealogy "work" that I have saved there, and just like the movies, tv shows and music I really need to do this - there's a lot of time invested already in all the scans and conversions of all the media, and I'm just getting started.  I had to rebuild part of this once already but didn't think seriously about some sort of back up until today when I reached a small milestone.

Thanks for the reply - another external hard disk it will be!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-08-17
I think some of both (but that is what I do).

The most important data like photos and text documentation that I want to save used to fit on one DVD. Now photos are larger and I need one DVD for each year's worth of photos and one for all my other data.
I do not backup music I have ripped myself to flac as I can redo that, but it would be time consuming. I have the mp3s on my music player anyway. And I do not have any movies.

---

### Post by squakie on 2013-08-17
Thanks OldFred - more to think about!  Considering one of the media centers is going to be mine now, and the other for my sister and brother in-law, I'm starting to feel like "what's the chances of BOTH drives failing at the same time" (they will each have their own drive).   Hummm........not the safest, but yet?  I'm just not sure what to do while I'm working on loading everything - maybe stop every so often and just copy my drive to what will be their drive.  Probably the easiest and will save me some money for now.

---

