---
title: "10.04 Video Issue"
date: 2011-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TKFT.44 on 2011-11-04
I've seen this problem on multiple computers.

A fresh install of Ubuntu 10.04 LTS works well, but as soon as I update all of the installed software, there seems to be a video issue.

The system seems responsive and functional, but the mouse cursor basically duplicates itself and then those duplicates remain on-screen. In addition, none of the menus show up consistently.

If need be, the terminal works just fine.

I'll attach a couple of pictures I took with my phone. Sorry they aren't actual screenshots, but the video issues make it difficult to save a screenshot and get it back to a working computer.

The first image (Log-In Screen.jpg) is what I see if I let the computer boot without me touching anything. No typing, no mouse movement, nothing.

The second image (Flash Drive.jpg) is an example of what happens when I plug in a USB flash drive and attempt to look at its contents.

If anyone has any thoughts or suggestions, I'd appreciate it. Also, let me know if you'd like any further info, and I'll do my best to supply it.

EDIT: The computer is an older desktop. It's an IBM NetVista 6792-22U with a Pentium 4 in it. The video card is an nVidia Vanta 16MB AGP card.

---

### Post by TKFT.44 on 2011-11-04
I feel like an idiot.

I switched the video card out with a different nVidia AGP card I had lying around, and now everything looks good and works well.

If anyone gave this thread a good look and actually tried to help, thanks.

---

