---
title: "8.10 &lt;ctrl&gt; &lt;alt&gt; &lt;del&gt; not showing option to turn off"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jus71n742 on 2008-12-29
If I hit the key combination of ctrl alt del I get the usual window with options but I do not have all the options.  I have only the options of Log Off, Hibernate, Lock Screen, and Switch user.

How can I get back the Shutdown and Restart otpions.

I can log off and then hit the power button buuut I don't really like that.  I want the other 2 available.

any idea's

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2008-12-29
Nevermind tried it and got the same as you.

---

### Post by jus71n742 on 2008-12-29
I get it on my laptop and my girlfriends laptop gives the same options

---

### Post by kokkus on 2008-12-29
It have been like this ever since the upgrade to 8.10.
I hate it, now I Have to use the button on the panel.

---

### Post by jus71n742 on 2008-12-29
So its from Ubuntu then...ok then why would it show that on my Laptop which is also 8.04 or what ever that number is?  Same for my Girlfriends ...she also has 8.??.  course both of us upgraded from 7.?? to the 8.?? and honestly if I am remembering correctly it was originally showing on my Tower.

interesting.

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-12-29
> **jus71n742 said:**
> So its from Ubuntu then...ok then why would it show that on my Laptop which is also 8.04 or what ever that number is?  Same for my Girlfriends ...she also has 8.??.  course both of us upgraded from 7.?? to the 8.?? and honestly if I am remembering correctly it was originally showing on my Tower.
I remember 8.10 acting that way for me as well (e.g. no Shutdown button, etc. when using Ctrl+Alt+Del) while I do have those options under 8.04/Hardy.  

I'm pretty sure what you're seeing is an 8.10 "upgrade".  :)

---

### Post by jus71n742 on 2008-12-29
haha yeah some upgrade...Have to remember that when I run updates on the laptop then.
Wish they would put it back in there.  Maybe we could get ahold of someone and mention it and maybe try and get it back.

---

### Post by bogr@ on 2008-12-30
How do I logoff my kids when they walk away from the computer in 8.04?

---

### Post by Therion on 2008-12-30
> **bogr@ said:**
> How do I logoff my kids when they walk away from the computer in 8.04?
System/Quit <choose your option>

Or put the "Quit" applet on one of your gnome panels <my choice, personally...>

---

### Post by jus71n742 on 2008-12-31
If you are in 8.04 then you can also hit <ctrl><alt><del> and then take your pick from the options it will give you.  There should also be a button on the bottom right of the desktop that will bring up the same window.

---

