---
title: "X.org + RAM"
date: 2009-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrKenobi on 2009-02-14
Does anyone knows how many RAM is needed for X.org?

I want to install ubuntu in a PowerPC with 128MB....

[Sorry  for my english, I spent 20 minutes writing this post!!! :)]

Thanx

---

### Post by Alterax on 2009-02-14
Off the top of my head, I don't know the minimum.  But what I can tell you is that I've done functional X installations on thin client systems that were running with 128 MB RAM.  I wouldn't recommend running with anything less than that, though, if only because performance would not be very good. 

You can likely get by with that on your G4, but since the amount of memory you're working with is small, I recommend using a lightweight installation, such as xubuntu.

---

### Post by malusdomestica314 on 2009-02-14
Which Ubuntu are you using (8.10, 8.04, something else?) The newest version (8.10), needs 256MB of ram, but I don't know if a PowerPC port is out for that. I think everything from 7.04 to 8.10 needs at least 256MB of ram. If you can't manage a memory upgrade right now, you might want to try another linux. 

What language do you speak? Maybe I can try to find you a list of PPC linux distros that will work with 128MB of RAM in your native language.

Here's a link to a copy of Xubuntu for PPC, it's in English, though:
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/ports/releases/7.10/release/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/xubuntu/ports/releases/7.10/release/)
It should work ok with your 128MB of ram. I'm not sure if it's being updated, there might be a newer one but I couldn't find it.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2009-02-14
for 128mb do a custom install, use a window manager and light programs, give a good amount of swap, at least 512mb to 1gig.
it should work fine, only the larger programs will be slow.

---

