---
title: ".d64 file extension misinterpreted"
date: 2013-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tschill on 2013-12-28
I noticed that some .d64 files are identified by my Ubuntu as TGA image files. 

[IMG]http://img849.imageshack.us/img849/5244/zp8z.jpg[/IMG]

1) How is this possible? I thought the file extension alone defines for the OS  what kind of file it is. Any suggestions how to get rid of this problem? 

2) Additionally I wanted to remove the file association from TGA with the ImageViewer and GIMP. I used Ubuntu Tweak>Admins to remove GIMP from the list, but I wasn't not allowed to remove the ImageViewer. Whenever I remove the last entry, the list is not empty, but an entry for the ImageViewer is automatically created.
Is there a way to prevent this, so that TGA files have no file association at all? There are other image file formats that don't have a fiel association, so there should be a way.

Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2013-12-28
> **tschill said:**
> I thought the file extension alone defines for the OS  what kind of file it is. Any suggestions how to get rid of this problem?Sorry that I can't offer any suggestions because I use a different file manager, but the "file extension" is totally meaningless in Linux. The whole concept of it is unique to Windows. In Linux, the program association is made by means of "magic numbers" at the start of the file. I suspect that your association of TGA with this file results from the accidental matching of the first few bytes of the file with the magic number for TGA or image files.

---

### Post by tschill on 2013-12-28
Ah, this explains a lot. It is usually the second side of a disk image file, but as we can see in the picture this is not always the case. So it seems that the TGA marker is quite common for the second side but not always used in C64 disks. Interesting. (And the good thing about this problem is that I installed now Bless Hex editor to have a look at the files.)

So this alters my question then - can I tweak Ubuntu in a way that it doesn't recognize TGA files at all?

Edit: After playing around with BlessHex: The TGA extension is attributed to files starting with XX 01 01 XX ... 
Not that this helps me in a way, but he! I learnt something about Ubuntu today.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2013-12-28
I'm sure that it's possible, but because of the differences in our file managers I don't know exactly how you can do it. As I recall, last time I went looking for the association list on my own system I found it in a "mime" subdirectory of some system file, but don't remember which one. A Google search for "mime association linux" might locate some better hints...

---

### Post by tschill on 2013-12-28
Thanks. I tried [this]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-addremove-applications-from-open-with-window.html") now. In /usr/share/applications/mimeinfo.cache I removed the x-tga associations. In ~/.local/share/applications/mimeapps.list I find this association now in the removed section 

```
[Removed Associations]
image/x-tga=eog.desktop;gimp.desktop;
```

Nonetheless the file association still exists. Hm.

---

### Post by sotiris2 on 2013-12-28
Did you also check in /usr/share/gnome/applications/defaults.list?

---

### Post by tschill on 2013-12-28
Good point, but it is not mentioned there. 

I think I should end this thread here. The main problem was, that VICE was not able to attach these .d64/fake TGA files and crashed when even trying to load them. Thanks to your hints, I just played around with the Hex Editor, editing .d64 files, so that they were not recognized as TGA files anymore. Nonetheless VICE crashed while attaching these modified .d64 files. So it was purely coincidental that they were misinterpreted as TGA files and that VICE crashed. Just changing the file association will not solve my problem, I will have to identify the real problem.

Thank you for your suggestions and as I said before - I still learned something from you, even though I did not solve the problem.

And sorry for double posting my question. I had the impression that nobody will see it in the Emulator subcategory. Mea culpa.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-12-28
For the record, to remove the *default* application associated with a mime-type in Ubuntu, you can edit the ~/.local/share/applications/mimeapps.list file e.g.

```

[Default Applications]
x-scheme-handler/mailto=thunderbird.desktop
message/rfc822=thunderbird.desktop
application/x-extension-eml=thunderbird.desktop
[B]image/x-tga=
[/B]
```

To take effect, you must update the database

```

$ update-mime-database ~/.local/share/mime

```

If you also want to prevent *non*-default applications (the ones listed under the 'Open With Other Application...' right click menu) from being associated you can add those to a [Removed Associations] section in the same file e.g.

```

[Removed Associations]
image/x-tga=eog.desktop;gimp.desktop;

```

That's on a per-user basis - the system wide equivalents are /usr/share/applications/defaults.list and /usr/share/mime (I think)

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2013-12-29
Many thanks for the details, Steeldriver! The locations in Xubuntu are slightly different but were easy to find using your post. I've got a whole batch of leftover non-default entries for the very same application that have been annoying me; with this information I can clean them out. Much appreciated!

---

### Post by tschill on 2014-01-01
Here is how I overcame the problem that VICE emulator crashed when loading some .d64 files: 

I made a copy of the .d64 file crashing VICE. In this copy I changed with BLESS HexEditor the directory track 18 which was unreadable for VICE ([see here]("http://unusedino.de/ec64/technical/formats/d64.html") for explanations). Then I attached this modified file to a drive and added it to the list for this drive. Now I changed the file content with BLESS back again to its original state. If VICE now loads the .d64 file from the drive list, it doesn't check again the directory and therefore doesn't crash. 

Probably you don't even need a HexEditor. Just take a readable .d64 file, give it the name of the file that leads to crashes, attach and add it to the drive's list. Now delete this file and place the VICE crashing file in the same folder. VICE should now load the .d64 file from the drive's list without problems.

---

