---
title: "[SOLVED] Need some help with screen resolution"
date: 2008-07-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sarmacid on 2008-07-15
I updated a bunch of stuff today, and now I'm having some issues with screen resolution. I think the kernel update is what made things like that.

Right now 640x480 is the max resolution I can get, but I can also go lower.

I tried running 
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
but it only configures my keyboard up to where [this]("http://img224.imageshack.us/img224/1368/screenshot2pm7.png") image shows

Here's the xorg.conf file after running that last command:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection
```

I had no problems at all before that update. My graphics card is a geforce 7200GS.

System->Administration->Hardware drivers is blank and says that no propietary drivers are on use on this system, even tho I reinstalled the nvidia-glx-new package with the synaptic.

Please don't tell me I have to format again >_< and thanks for helping!

---

### Post by jonian_g on 2008-07-15
No you don't.

Open synaptic and remove everything that begins with nvidia-glx-*
Reboot and install your driver from System>Admin>Hardware Drivers.

If you want the latest driver don't install it from System>Admin>Hardware Drivers but install it with EnvyNG.

To install EnvyNG:

sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk

Then go to Applications>Sys Tools>EnvyNG and install the driver from there.

---

### Post by Sarmacid on 2008-07-15
Thanks for the reply, but after shutting down for a while it all went back to normal, seems like magic, cause I rebooted countless times earlier.

Well, that's normal at least on resolution. I think I don't have 3D acceleration enabled cause I can't open my games(They're all erroring when I try)

I'll follow your adivse and install EnvyNG.

*Edit*

Installed EnvyNG and downloaded the drivers for the card. Checked System->Administration->Hardware drivers and the driver was there, but disabled. I enabled it and it said I needed to reboot for changes to take effect, now I'm back to where I started (Check first post) so it seems the drivers are the ones guilty for all this. Any ideas?

---

### Post by jonian_g on 2008-07-16
See what you did wrong:

When you install the drivers with envy, the drivers that are installed from System->Administration->Hardware drivers get removed.
When you install the drivers from System->Administration->Hardware drivers, the drivers that are installed with envy get removed.

> Installed EnvyNG and downloaded the drivers for the card. Checked System->Administration->Hardware drivers and the driver was there, but disabled. I enabled it and it said I needed to reboot for changes to take effect, now I'm back to where I started

_Download and install_ the drivers with envy and reboot. Don't use System->Administration->Hardware drivers because it will remove the drivers Envy installed.

EnvyNG installs this package: nvidia-glx-new-envy

System->Administration->Hardware drivers installs this package: nvidia-glx-new

These two packages conflict with each other. That mean they can't be installed at the same time.

---

### Post by Sarmacid on 2008-07-16
I see... Thanks a lot for the reply, I'll try that when I get home ^_^

---

### Post by jonian_g on 2008-07-16
I hope you get the results you want:)

If you find a solution don't forget to mark the thread as [SOLVED].

---

### Post by Sarmacid on 2008-07-16
Thanks for the help, letting EnvyNG take care of everything solved the issues :D

---

