---
title: "10.10 Update manager stuck at  Authenticate"
date: 2010-10-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Beiruty on 2010-10-05
Now I upgraded to 10.10. After I enter the su password in the dialog box in the update manager, the dialog box get stuck and the only way to proceed is to close the dialog box using the x button.

Is there a solution or know bug for this issue?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-10-05
Ubuntu uses sudo, no su

So, normally there is no "su" or root password, enter your log in password.

See also :

[RootSudo - Community Ubuntu Documentation]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo")

---

### Post by Beiruty on 2010-10-05
I understand. When doing simple update via the update manager (GUI). The user is asked to enter a password, after I enter the password, the update manager's dialog box gets stuck. The highlighted Authenticate Button is there, and the dialog box do nothing. If I close the dialog box with the x button, the upgrade proceed normally.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-10-05
I would file a bug report on Launchpad on that one.

---

### Post by skillllllz on 2010-11-12
> **Beiruty said:**
> I understand. When doing simple update via the update manager (GUI). The user is asked to enter a password, after I enter the password, the update manager's dialog box gets stuck. The highlighted Authenticate Button is there, and the dialog box do nothing. If I close the dialog box with the x button, the upgrade proceed normally.

I have this very same issue on the 10.10 after upgrading on my desktop. My laptop does not have this issue after the upgrade. I am stumped...

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2010-11-14
> **skillllllz said:**
> I have this very same issue on the 10.10 after upgrading on my desktop. My laptop does not have this issue after the upgrade. I am stumped...

Same experience for me.  My laptop does not have this problem, but my brother's laptop does. :confused:  Both fresh 10.10 installs.

---

### Post by dark.generic on 2010-11-14
File a bug report.. but for now use

```
sudo apt-get update
```

then

```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

in terminal, until its sorted out

---

### Post by pauljoseph on 2010-11-16
I have the same issue with my laptop, but my ubuntu 10.10 netbook remix is fine. Please update us if there is a fix released. Thanks.

---

### Post by SometimesRomano on 2010-11-17
Has anyone filed a bug report yet?

I haven't found one yet. This also affects me on my laptop.
This is the second time I have installed 10.10 on this computer, and the first install didn't have this trouble.

---

### Post by bkline on 2010-11-23
> **SometimesRomano said:**
> Has anyone filed a bug report yet?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/670535](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/670535) seems to be the closest match to the behavior we're seeing.

---

### Post by RicktheBrick on 2010-11-24
I have the same problem except when I esc from the message I get a new message about it waiting for apt-get to exit which it never does.  Apt-get update does not work either because I get a message about it can not open a locked file.  Removing the lock does not work either.  I have to use sudo apt-get install for every update to get my updates.

---

### Post by Xenomorph on 2010-11-26
**Every** window that asks for Authentication does not dismiss when you authenticate. 

You have to click the X to close the window (and then whatever action you attempted will proceed).

This happens on *every* install of Ubuntu 10.10 I've seen. Real hardware, virtual machines, etc. Multiple computers.

This gives me the impression that this happens for everyone running 10.10. Are so few people actually using Ubuntu that this isn't being reported continuously?

---

### Post by Swagman on 2010-11-27
> **Xenomorph said:**
> **Every** window that asks for Authentication does not dismiss when you authenticate. 

You have to click the X to close the window (and then whatever action you attempted will proceed).

This happens on *every* install of Ubuntu 10.10 I've seen. Real hardware, virtual machines, etc. Multiple computers.

This gives me the impression that this happens for everyone running 10.10. Are so few people actually using Ubuntu that this isn't being reported continuously?

Pardon ?

That certainly doesn't happen for me.

---

### Post by ghostborg on 2010-12-03
This only happens on one of my four Ubuntu 10.10 systems.

---

### Post by snooo on 2010-12-09
also having this problem - i have to close the authentication window for the program to authenticate. It wont close itself after I put my password in.

---

### Post by t1010011 on 2010-12-15
just bumping to see if anyone has a word on how to fix this minor bothering issue...

---

### Post by mark2741 on 2010-12-15
Same here. I did a clean install of 10.10 64-bit Ubuntu and have noticed this issue occurs intermittently for me. Clicking the X button will close the Authenticate window and allow me to move forward so it's not a big deal, but somewhat annoying.

---

### Post by guy-rouillier on 2010-12-25
I upgraded the server version (with a GUI installed - LXDE) from 10.4 to 10.10.  When I run Update Manager, the top line says "It is unknown when the package information was updated last  Please try clicking on the 'Check' button to update the information."  If I do this, it prompts me for a password.  I can successfully enter a password.  I see it then download packages.  After that, the window grays out and even clicking the X close icon doesn't work.  I have to kill the process.

Next, I tried running from the command line "apt-get update". That finishes fine.  I then start up Update Manager again.  This time, I see packages listed that are available to update.  I click Install Updates.  I can see it installing.  Again, when it is finished, the Update Manager window grays out and will not close.  Again, I have to kill the process.

Finally, I again run "apt-get update" from the command line; it tells me there are no updates available.  So I guess Update Manager successfully installed the updates.  Just for hoots I run "apt-get upgrade", and it tells me there are no updated packages.  So finally, I start up Update Manager again.  It is back to the condition in the opening paragraph.  

I had no problems with Update Manager under 10.4.  It appears to have gotten broken in 10.10.

---

### Post by mark2741 on 2010-12-26
For what it's worth, I haven't experienced the issue in quite a while now. I'm guessing that one of the updates fixed it?

---

### Post by dekovite on 2011-01-13
I only upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 this weekend just gone, and since then I get this problem when anything needs to authenticate via a GUI and found this thread looking for a fix.

Updating via command line - no problem at all, so fully updated & no noticeable fix so far - just becoming an annoyance!

---

### Post by RJan on 2011-01-30
Same here, several 10.10 systems working fine. Today installed another one and no response.
Command line is nice for update/upgrade, but I love the application install from the update manager, that doesn't function also.
Still no one any idea?

---

### Post by psion67 on 2011-01-31
See the bug here [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/445303](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/445303) there is a ppa with an update that reportedly fixes the issue.

Andrew

---

### Post by bkline on 2011-05-17
> **bkline said:**
> [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/670535](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/update-manager/+bug/670535) seems to be the closest match to the behavior we're seeing.

The bug appears to have been fixed in Natty, though you wouldn't know that from looking at the issue in launchpad.

---

### Post by bkline on 2011-06-03
> **bkline said:**
> The bug appears to have been fixed in Natty, though you wouldn't know that from looking at the issue in launchpad.

Unfortunately, it looks like they've introduced another bug as they fixed the original one, just to keep the bug universe in a steady state: now the password box no longer has the focus when it comes up, so you end up typing in your password into the void, then doing it again when you realize that the dialog box wasn't paying attention.  Not quite as annoying as the original bug, but it affects all my machines, whereas the original bug only showed up on the laptop.  Sigh! :(

---

