---
title: "13.10 ctrl+shift+u, still hold ctrl+shift  + numbers not working..."
date: 2013-12-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jtzero on 2013-12-22
has anyone else noticed this?  I might add that,
ctrl+shift+u, still hold ctrl+shift, then type letters (say BD) works.  And, 
ctrl+shift+u, let go of all keys,   then type any characters and press enter (or space) works. 
I tested this in firefox, geany, gedit, it worked in the last release

tl;dr ctrl+shift+u, let go of u, keep holding ctrl+shift, and press numbers - doesnt work

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-12-23
And if you type ctrl+shift+{u, some combination of letters and numbers}, it shows the letters whilst typing, but doesn't show the numbers, or works until you type the first number? It used to be an issue that some keyboards couldn't handle certain key combinations, but it's a long time ago that I last heard of that problem. You are typing the correct hexadecimal codes in all cases, right? Does it matter whether you use the numbers on the top row or the numeric keypad (if you have one)?

It all works here, both using top row and numeric keypad:```

ctrl+shift+u, e, 6, space: æ;    ctrl+shift+{u, e, 6}: æ;    compose, a, e: æ
ctrl+shift+u, f, e, space: þ;    ctrl+shift+{u, f, e}: þ;    compose, t, h: þ
ctrl+shift+u, 1, 5, 3, space: œ; ctrl+shift+{u, 1, 5, 3}: œ; compose, o, e: œ
ctrl+shift+u, 1, 4, b, space: &#331;; ctrl+shift+{u, 1, 4, b}: &#331;; compose, n, g: &#331;
```

---

### Post by jtzero on 2013-12-24
> And if you type ctrl+shift+{u, some combination of letters and numbers}, it shows the letters whilst typing, yes  ie ctrl+shift+u, f, e => "_uFE_"
> but doesn't show the numbers, or works until you type the first number? on the numpad it shows nothing (not even a space) i.e. ctrl+shift+u, e, 6 => "_uE_"
> Does it matter whether you use the numbers on the top row or the numeric keypad (if you have one)? , I tried that as well. While the numpad does nothing, the row produces "_uE^_" 

> It used to be an issue that some keyboards couldn't handle certain key  combinations, but it's a long time ago that I last heard of that problem this is the way I have always typed it on this computer, so I don't see this as an issue. 

> It all works here, both using top row and numeric keypad: Just for clarification I can reproduce the first column and the last column, and column 2 row 2 (using the methods specified).

---

### Post by LarrySherk on 2013-12-25
not only does control-shift-u not work, but in system settings/keyboard/typing, I cannot set compose key or alternative characters key.  No access to non-keyboard characters at all.

---

### Post by jtzero on 2014-01-01
yeah I'm not seeing that, the compose key works for me

---

