---
title: "11.04 startup options"
date: 2011-12-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Valentin630 on 2011-12-14
In 11.04 there is (I can't find) no option to save the Gnome session to recover it at next
logon. 
In 10.10 there is the startup menu where from it is reachable. In 11.04 there is no such
point. 
In 11.04 gnome-control-center the submenu "system" has no the point "session".
any ideas?

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2011-12-14
I believe this was dropped as an officially supported feature in 11.04.

I did read that if you open a terminal window and run:

```
gconf-editor
```

and navigate to **apps -> gnome-session -> options**, you can check the box **auto_save_session** and this may work.

---

### Post by Valentin630 on 2011-12-14
> **lechien73 said:**
> 
```
gconf-editor
```and navigate to **apps -> gnome-session -> options**, you can check the box **auto_save_session** and this may work.
thanks for the idea.
I didn't follow the thread before, and now have discovered that the box "auto_save_session"  is on but this is non-useful. It seems me that "**they"** dropped the 
future with disconnected brain because I can't find any answer for "why?"

---

### Post by lechien73 on 2011-12-14
Yes, I didn't know if it would work or not. Ubuntu 11.10 is mostly dconf based, and I didn't know if gconf-editor would have any effect in 11.04 either.

The reason, it seems, was given [here]("http://www.linux-archive.org/ubuntu-desktop/478109-gnome-session-saving-dropped-natty.html").

---

### Post by Valentin630 on 2011-12-14
Thanks for the link 
but I do not understand the logics of such people.
Why do they create  inconveniences for people, for which this future works OK?
Do not cut things which I used before! Anybody can make own challenge "to be or not to be".
But it is my fault: do not believe people promising your better things if you do not need them!

---

