---
title: "14.04 - su &amp; sudo segfaults"
date: 2016-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TSandman on 2016-04-24
Hello

Since an update last week, su & sudo both segfaults.
Any invocation except --help gives a segmentation fault. no need to say that it causes some problems!

The only thing I have, besides the console error is this in the syslogs:

```
Apr 24 12:45:07 kernel: [500629.395317] sudo[19698]: segfault at 968 ip 00007f4ab7acfb80 sp 00007ffd56e51930 error 4 in libpthread-2.19.so[7f4ab7ac9000+19000]
```

Everything mostly seems to run fine, but some aren't (ex: emby-server doesn't start anymore).

I've tried booting up in recovery mode, but I have a problem when trying to re-mount / as RW.  it seems to work until I access the partition, then I get a crashdump and everything is hard locked.
I've tried to re-install all packages with aptdcon, clearing the downloaded packages and updating the cache, but it doesn't changes anything.

I've exhausted all my Google search-fu, so here I am.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-04-24
How are you using su; it is not the way we run commands as root in Ubuntu and normally there is no particular use for **su** in this OS.

Similarly, how are you using, or trying to use, sudo?
Normally we run a command as root using **sudo <command>** eg ```
sudo apt-get update
```
Show us what happens when you do that, and also the full command and all the output which gives you the error you showed earlier.

I hope you are not using sudo for a GUI application as that can cause many problems of /home file and folder ownership being transferred to root.

---

### Post by TSandman on 2016-04-27
Hello

I'm not using su per say, just to mean that sudo (sudo apt-get update - or any sudo commands) sefaults.  I had seen reference to using su instead of sudo to fix some kind of related problems, hence I mentioned that su also segfaults

sample output:

```

> sudo apt-get update
Segmentation fault (core dumped)
>
```

"sudo --help"  works but that's it. Any other options segfaults.  Anything "started" with sudo segfaults (vi, emby-server, etc...)

Everything is while using a shell (any shell)

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2016-04-27
What's the output of

```

ldd $(which sudo)

```

That might give us a clue where to start

---

### Post by TSandman on 2016-04-27
```
> ldd $(which sudo)
linux-vdso.so.1 =>  (0x00007ffe0e51f000)
libselinux.so.1 => /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libselinux.so.1 (0x00007fccc88c1000)
libutil.so.1 => /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libutil.so.1 (0x00007fccc86be000)
libdl.so.2 => /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libdl.so.2 (0x00007fccc84ba000)
libc.so.6 => /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libc.so.6 (0x00007fccc80f5000)
libpcre.so.3 => /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libpcre.so.3 (0x00007fccc7eb7000)
/lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 (0x00007fccc8d0b000)
```


I just gotta add that the problem appeared right after doing a simple software update (through the usual new software notification in GUI)
Unfortunately, I do not remember what was to be updated (I hadn't updated in a while so there was 10-15 packages updated)

---

