---
title: "no Display after installing nvidia 180. drivers"
date: 2009-08-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-08-01
After i reinstalled ubuntu

when i install the drivers for my 9800gt, when i restart to activate the driver i just get a prompt.

i reinstalled ubuntu and installed the driver again but haven't restarted yet
i used "nvidia-xconfig" and this is what i get back.

root@Raiju-desktop:/home/eric# nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

WARNING: No Layout specified, constructing implicit layout section using screen
         "Default Screen".


WARNING: Unable to find CorePointer in X configuration; attempting to add new
         CorePointer section.


WARNING: The CorePointer device was not specified explicitly in the layout;
         using the first mouse device.


WARNING: Unable to find CoreKeyboard in X configuration; attempting to add new
         CoreKeyboard section.


WARNING: The CoreKeyboard device was not specified explicitly in the layout;
         using the first keyboard device.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

any ideas?

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-08-01
BUMP!@

need help =(

my xorg.conf says this

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-08-01
Did you install the driver via System/Administration/Hardware Drivers?

That's what I did for my 9400, and then ran

```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by Raiju on 2009-08-01
i did install it that way, but i didnt run that command you posted

is there a way to like disable the driver from terminal if i reboot and the gui doesn't load?

---

### Post by alexandari on 2009-08-01
How about downgrading? Cant you install the 177.82 driver ?

---

