---
title: "11.04 Classic desktop Freezes; high CPU use?"
date: 2012-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Francis4344 on 2012-11-27
Hello all!

Ubuntu started to freeze one and a while and now it's freezing 15 times a day.

I am running 11.04, classic desktop on a HP desktop computers for more than a year, so no hardware conflict. Kerner is 2.6.38-16; Gnome is 2.32.1

I have tested the memory (memorytest86) and nothing came up.

It freeze while using Chrome, LibreOffice, or just siting idle with or without the screesaver on.

The hard drive is not full; 

According to the system monitor, memory usage is below 30 %; swap not fully used either. The CPU however, shows a different story: It keeps fluctuating from 25% or so to 100% (both CPUs).

This is certainly odd. Anyone has a suggestion?

Thanks!

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-11-27
You can use the System Monitor or the terminal command 'top' to see which process(es) are hogging your CPU, then use that information to troubleshoot.

However I recommend you install a supported release as 11.04 is "end of life" and any bugs won't be fixed at this point: 

[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2012/10/28/ubuntu-11-04-natty-narwhal-end-of-life-reached-on-october-28-2012/](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2012/10/28/ubuntu-11-04-natty-narwhal-end-of-life-reached-on-october-28-2012/)

---

### Post by Francis4344 on 2012-11-27
Well, the system monitor shows many processes, all dormant, with the system monitor using maybe 4 to 10% of the CPU, compiz 2%.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-11-27
Hi, so your system monitor is showing 100% CPU usage, but no processes higher than 10%? That sounds like a *very* strange system monitor bug, which as I mentioned will never get fixed.

---

### Post by Francis4344 on 2012-11-27
Well, turns out that system monitor DID NOT show that seti@home and minirosetta@home were working in the background. I had totally forgotten about those two. They start up automatically.

Thanks to conky!!

I will dig up the the config to shut them down for a while and see it the problem is resolved.


;)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2012-11-27
Hooray for conky! (I'm thinking of naming my first-born child Conky or Conkette.)

---

### Post by Francis4344 on 2012-11-27
Well so far so good, no crashes and a definite hint of speed...

No clues as to why BOINC (seti@home) would screw up after running in the background for a year and a half so silently that I forgot all about it...

Time for an omelet with all those eggs.... ;)

---

