---
title: "9.10 won't load up past menu after install."
date: 2009-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mr_Pacman on 2009-11-30
Hi everyone,

I'm having a bit of a tough time here, and was hoping there might be an easy fix.

Here are the basic details:

I have an IBM Thinkpad X31. In the past I have run various version of Ubuntu and Linux Mint without any issues. I DON'T have a dual boot setup....I just run the entire harddrive partition with Linux.

Last night, I downloaded the Ubuntu 9.10 ISO and booted from the CD. Ubuntu 9.10 loaded up fine, and I was able to use it perfectly. I then installed it to my HD. The install seemed to go fine, but when I rebooted the computer and the GRUB menu loaded up, I get this error message:

"Error: no such device: 6fcfd9c1-b225-4b82-8755-ca4ba029996f

Press any key to continue....."

When I press a key, it takes me back to the GRUB menu and when I select the option to load it up, it takes me back to the error message.

I have downloaded 3 different Ubuntu ISO files from different servers and have tried re-installing it 6 times, but I get the same result.

Also, I downloaded an ISO for Linux Mint 8 (based on Ubuntu 9.10) and I get the exact same error message when I install it to the hard drive......even though I was able to run Linux Mint 8 when I booted it from a CD.

Any thoughts or input on how to take care of this?
I would really like to start using this new version. Obviously, my computer can handle it as it works like a charm when running from the CD or a USB key.

Thanks
James

---

### Post by u.b.u.n.t.u on 2009-11-30
Might the problem be related to the following?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/403408](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/403408)

---

### Post by Mr_Pacman on 2009-12-01
> **u.b.u.n.t.u said:**
> Might the problem be related to the following?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/403408](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/403408)


Thanks very much for the link. I'll give those options a try.

Any ideas if this will be fixed on later releases of 9.10, or is it not happening to enough people for the developers to address it?

Thanks
James

---

### Post by u.b.u.n.t.u on 2009-12-01
> **Mr_Pacman said:**
> Thanks very much for the link. I'll give those options a try.

Any ideas if this will be fixed on later releases of 9.10, or is it not happening to enough people for the developers to address it?

Thanks
James

ATI seem to release a new driver on a monthly basis. Therefore it is reasonable to hope for a 9.12 driver to be released this month. Given that they would test such against Ubuntu, Fedora and OpenSuse, each of which have recently released new versions, it is also reasonable to expect that the current problems would be resolved.

Concurrently the Ubuntu xorg developers, other distros and those at xorg are working extremely hard on addressing issues. The problem is that these issues are truly significant.

It is also a considerable challenge that ATI and Nvidia do not open source their drivers.

---

### Post by Mr_Pacman on 2009-12-01
Thanks again for the reply.

I think I'll go back to Linux Mint 6 (which works fine) until the new Ubuntu 9.10 drivers are released.

I'm not very comfortable/experienced with modifying command lines yet, so it would be challenging for me to get this version going.

Regards,
James

---

