---
title: ".exe files installation help!"
date: 2009-05-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jkd18 on 2009-05-25
How do i install an .exe file on to Ubuntu 8.04? Thanks!

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2009-05-25
I think files with .exe extentions are M/S windows compatible files.  I don't think you can run them under Ubuntu unless you are using some type of Linux based program such as WINE to allow them to be ran under Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Girl™ on 2009-05-25
You should check out Wine.

---

### Post by rizman on 2009-05-25
.exe files are Windows executables. They are not supposed to be installed natively on a Linux system. Depending on what it is you are trying to install, you may be able tp get it to run under [Wine]("http://www.winehq.org/").

Also, check out the [Wine AppDB]("http://appdb.winehq.org/") to see if others have already tried to run the program under Wine.

---

### Post by jkd18 on 2009-05-25
Thanks, ppl!!! :-) Worked! 
jkd:D

---

### Post by luigi_mb on 2009-05-25
> **wpshooter said:**
> I think files with .exe extentions are M/S windows compatible files.  I don't think you can run them under Ubuntu unless you are using some type of Linux based program such as WINE to allow them to be ran under Ubuntu.

.exe files may also be Mono files, in which case you run them as

```

mono <filename>.exe

```

/luigi

---

### Post by Tibuda on 2009-05-25
> **jkd18 said:**
> Thanks, ppl!!! :-) Worked! 
jkd:D

What application are you trying to install? Maybe it has a native linux version or alternative.

---

### Post by maxislinux on 2009-05-25
Well, its fine if you want to run the .exe  just get the latest Wine from the repositories and go ahead with installing the .exe.   but remember to search for a linux version of the program, An emlated ersion runs best only on the OS it was meant for...... so though the app will run, it wont be as good as it should be.... if itsa common app , chances are it might have a linux equivalent ....

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-05-25
.EXE files are commonly referred to as Windows programs (**EXE**cutables) in these forums, but they can also be MS-DOS programs as well. Some are what's called a ["self-extracting archive"]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Self-extracting_archive") - a .zip file wrapped up in a Windows or MS-DOS program that will unzip the file for you - with such files you can sometimes use the Linux "unzip" command to access the contents.

The previous comment on .EXE being a Mono file was a new one on me.

As has already been suggested, [Wine]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wine") is a common way to run the program.

---

### Post by directhex on 2009-05-26
> **lisati said:**
> The previous comment on .EXE being a Mono file was a new one on me.

CLI assemblies re-use the PE headers found in "real" .exe files. Blame laziness by Microsoft. e.g.:
/usr/lib/tomboy/Tomboy.exe: PE32 executable for MS Windows (console) Intel 80386 32-bit Mono/.Net assembly

---

