---
title: "11.04 hard drive confusion"
date: 2011-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nikias on 2011-05-26
Ok so I added a new hard drive to my system to run Windows on because I've had nothing but problems in the past trying to dual-boot from a single drive. Anyways, everything went smoothly except it seems that Ubuntu is now reading the new drive with windows on it as sda and the drive Ubuntu is on as sdb. For obvious reasons this has messed everything up. Each time I start up I have to manually mount the /home/ directory and mess with permissions to get Chrome to run. I'm hoping there's an easy way to tell it that sda is now sdb without having to reinstall my system.

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-05-27
As a first guess, I think you may have the reference to your '/home' partition in /etc/fstab (**F**ile **S**ystem **TAB**le) referenced as /dev/sda**X** instead of by the UUID of the partition.

If this does not make any sense to you, please do this from Ubuntu so we can walk you though the change:

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Follow the instruction on the website and post the results here.

Please press the '#' button when posting and place the the script results between the [noparse]```
 & 
```[/noparse] tags.

[IMG]http://img854.imageshack.us/img854/4563/codetags.png[/IMG]


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by jbowen7 on 2011-05-27
Sure, it's not too hard. First open a terminal.Copy and past the following and then post the result.

```
cat /etc/fstab
```
```
mount
```
```
blkid
```

From there, we can solve your problem.

---

### Post by Nikias on 2011-05-30
> **Hedgehog1 said:**
> As a first guess, I think you may have the reference to your '/home' partition in /etc/fstab (**F**ile **S**ystem **TAB**le) referenced as /dev/sda**X** instead of by the UUID of the partition.

You were 100% correct. I changed the instances of "sda#" to "sdb#" and it cleared all the problems up. Thanks.

---

