---
title: "12.04 What do I need to do to make games, emulators, and Ren'Py run correctly?"
date: 2012-09-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Uikri on 2012-09-21
So, from the first time I even attempted it, I've had trouble getting emulators to work right in Ubuntu. Now, that trouble has spread to normal games, and even Ren'Py, which was working just fine in previous releases. The interesting thing is that ZSNES works absolutely fine as far as I can tell, though admittedly I've yet to try anything past the title screen. Steam (Launched through WINE) works fine as well with the only game my computer has the power to run (Cave Story+). PCSX seemed to work okay, but had some sound errors and was going kind of slow. I had a lot of other programs up though, and I still have Pulse Audio, which I've been told numerous times I should get rid of. Ren'Py outright refuses to work now. I'm even working off of a fresh install of 12.04, which I assumed would fix it, if nothing else. I installed Ren'Py, and, sure enough, it still looked like it does in the attached image. When trying to load a game (in this case, Katawa Shoujo), I got the loading image, and then a prompt crash.  Games that are launched just by double clicking them (such as AM2R  Demo [actually AM2R is the *only* game that I play that is like that], which I use with WINE), will go super fast and have horrible sound  errors. The same thing happens with Visual Boy Advance, and VBA express refuses to even launch any games. The SNES emulator bsnes probably just requires more power than I can give it.

So, what do I need to do to get these things running properly on 12.04? The main priority is KS, as I'm going to be moving soon (Like, within the next two weeks) and won't really have internet access where I'm going for an indefinite amount of time, and a VN is sure to last awhile (So yes, help ASAP would be **very musch appreciated**). Also, if I'm to get rid of Pulse, what will I use for audio? What do my fellow Ubuntu users do to get games to work?

---

### Post by Uikri on 2012-09-21
**UPDATE: KS now works, so the only problems are the *Visual Boy Advance* emulator and games like AM2R.**

---

