---
title: "nvidia 8500gt problems"
date: 2008-08-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mercules2178 on 2008-08-12
I am new to linux and I have spent a lot of time in the synaptic working with different nvidia drivers and kernels trying to get my card to work. Now working with glx-new my computer goes into hibernation upon reboot and i have to restart and do a restore. It does this when the nvidia splash should show up. I noticed that my monitor is probably out of range with its display. When i try to edit my xorg.conf file it will not let me save it. I could use some help with this. I also notice that the resolution is not one my monitor can use either. I need to change this so I can boot up. If you see any problems can you please help? This is my xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Tue Jan 22 17:57:31 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-08-12
You can change your resolution easier using nvidia-settings, if you have your correct driver installed from system > admin > hardware drivers , then run this command in terminal

```
nvidia-settings

```
if its not installed, type this

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings
```

Now try the original command and you will be able to edit the resolutions here.

---

### Post by mercules2178 on 2008-08-12
When I do it tells me this:

You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.

I would not mind if someone walked me through a complete nvidia removal and a fresh nvidia install.

I also have several different xorg.conf files and some have a string of numbers on the end. I also have 3 different backup files. not sure what is happening. maybe different ones from the many attempts and could this be causing a problem also?

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-08-12
I dont know which driver you installed, but first try running this command

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

If no luck open synaptic and search for your nvidia drivers, search for **nvidia-glx** you will have either one of two drivers installed. 
 
Locate the one installed and remove it, now once it is done try install the driver supplied in system > admin > hardware drivers

Once the drivers installed run nvidia-settings and edit your res

---

### Post by mercules2178 on 2008-08-12
This is what I get:

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a Driver
                  line.

Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

---

