---
title: "Won't see my WiFi connection"
date: 2010-07-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by geminimoon66 on 2010-07-25
Two days ago I installed the newest version of Ubuntu onto an external Hard Drive, still have Win XP as main OS on laptop. The install went smooth and, compared to Windows, Ubuntu rocks! 

Today I was using it with no problems. I shut it down and later when I restarted my laptop, Ubuntu wouldn't acknowledge that I have a wireless network connection and says it is disconnected, but it isn't. When I boot into Windows the network pops right up with no problems.  
There have been no changes in anything on my laptop (Acer Aspire 5050, 2.8gHz with 4 GB RAM & an Atheros AR5007EG Wireless Card built in.) 
I have tried everything except re-installing Ubuntu. My network card is on and working fine with Win XP. 
Anyone have any suggestions on what this problem may be or what I can do to resolve this issue?

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-07-25
I am not on a wireless system right now but a quick check of:
```
apropos wireless
crda (8)             - send to the kernel a wireless regulatory domain for a ...
iwconfig (8)         - configure a wireless network interface
iwevent (8)          - Display Wireless Events generated by drivers and setti...
iwgetid (8)          - Report ESSID, NWID or AP/Cell Address of wireless network
iwlist (8)           - Get more detailed wireless information from a wireless...
iwpriv (8)           - configure optionals (private) parameters of a wireless...
iwspy (8)            - Get wireless statistics from specific nodes
pbmtowbmp (1)        - convert a portable bitmap to a wireless bitmap (wbmp) ...
rfkill (1)           - tool for enabling and disabling wireless devices
wbmptopbm (1)        - convert a wireless bitmap (wbmp) file to a portable bi...
wireless (7)         - Wireless Tools and Wireless Extensions

```post the output of the 2nd, 4th & 5th commands.

---

### Post by geminimoon66 on 2010-07-25
[FONT=&quot]Thanks for your reply, here is the info.[/FONT]
[B][FONT=&quot]
[/FONT][/B]
**[FONT=&quot]iwconfig[/FONT]**
  [FONT=&quot]me@ubuntu:~$ iwconfig[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]lo        no wireless extensions.[/FONT]
  
  [FONT=&quot]eth0      no wireless extensions.[/FONT]
  
  [FONT=&quot]wlan0     IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID: off/any  [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]          Mode:Managed  Access Point: Not-Associated   Tx-Power=0 dBm   [/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]          Retry  long limit:7   RTS thr: off   Fragment thr: off[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]          Power Management: off[/FONT]


    **[FONT=&quot]iwgetid[/FONT]**
  [FONT=&quot]NOTHING HERE. Just goes to prompt, [me@ubuntu:~$][/FONT]
  
  **[FONT=&quot]iwlist[/FONT]**
  [FONT=&quot]me@ubuntu:~$ iwlist[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]Usage: iwlist [interface] scanning [essid NNN] [last][/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] frequency[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] channel[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] bitrate[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] rate[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] encryption[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] keys[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] power[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] txpower[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] retry[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] ap[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] accesspoints[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] peers[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] event[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] auth[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] wpakeys[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] genie[/FONT]
  [FONT=&quot]              [interface] modulation[/FONT]

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-07-25
Ok 'iwconfig' found your wireless adapter, but you are not connected.
Make sure 'NetworkManager' is running:
```
ps aux | grep NetworkManager
```
If it is in the output, you should be able to left click the icon on the panel, and select an available signal.
If NetworkManager is NOT in the ouput of the above code, try:
```
sudo NetworkManager
```
and enter your password when prompted.

---

### Post by geminimoon66 on 2010-07-25
Thank you [AlphaLexman]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=810079")!

Some how the Notification Area in the Panel wasn't visible.  Once I figured out to turn that on I was able to see the NetworkManager I enabled the Wireless Network and it connected right up.

Thanks so much for your help!

---

