---
title: "13.04 Graphics, Speed, Heat and Other Issues on Hp Pavillion DV6000"
date: 2013-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Myst1234 on 2013-05-21
Hello Ubuntu-ers and Penguin Lovers!

I've been am Ubuntu user and a Penguin lover for a little over a year now, and for the most part, I'm ADDICTED! I love it. I've posted here a handful of times with problems that typically are solved immediately, yet another reason I love Ubuntu :)

Pretty recently I upgraded my laptop to 13.04 and where I had NO problems previously (meaning in 12.04 or 12.10) I now do have these problems. My first thought is my HP Pavillion DV6000 is simply too old to handle everything Linux is putting out now, but truthfully, I don't know if that's the case.

My main concerns are as stated in the Thread Title - Heat, Speed and Graphics issues. I have a few other little bugs I have noticed, but I wanted to address the big boys first.

**Speed --** I've read a few things like change the swappiness, and using zram for speed. Would these help? If so, what is the safest way to do this? And is there anything else that could help?

**Heat --** I used to use Jupiter, which seemed to work flawlessly in 12.04 and 12.10 but in 13.04 it's really buggy. Could this be my older laptop just not being able to keep up? When Jupiter does decide to work properly it says my comp is running at like 80 degrees or so, compared to the low 70's it used to. That can't be good right?

**Graphics -- **As of my 13.04 upgrade I've noticed some pretty wonky graphics issues. First being when I click the Dash button to search for an App or File I get some weird graphics quirks. Nothing disabling, but definitely annoying and it was NEVER like that prior to the 13.04 upgrade. I've also noticed similar wonky graphics stuff when veiwing streaming videos such as YouTube or movies online etc. I have yet to try with an actual DVD because I assume if it can't view YouTube properly a DVD might just kill it.

I've only noticed these issues/bugs as of 13.04 so like I said earlier, could it be my laptop just cannot handle it? I do know I can change desktop environments, I did that on my Asus EEE Pc netbook, it is running 13.04 Lubuntu and it works BEAUTIFULLY! 

I would prefer to keep the Unity desktop on my larger laptop, but if I cannot, then well I cannot. I have installed the gnome fallback, but I still see most of the same bugs/issues, the only exception being there is no Dash button so I do not get that Graphics error. 

Any and all help would be greatly appreciated 
And thank you in advance to everyone that takes the time to help

---

### Post by arpanaut on 2013-05-21
I have a Presario V6000 which I believe is very similar and from the same era and for me 13.04 runs cooler and uses less resources.
I did have some graphics glitches until I installed the nVidia drivers, also it seems to run snappier. 
I did upgrade to 2 gig of ram. and alocated in bios some extra system ram to the graphics card.
What graphic card, and how much memory do you have?

Strange that such similar machines would react so differently.
Hope you get it sorted.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-05-22
Have you tried to disassemble the cooling unit and clean it for accumulated dust?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-05-22
News flash: How old is your DV6000? You are probably not aware that these had a worldwide recall because of a fatal design fault. Mine is now a doorstop, or good for it only. 

The first sign is generally the wireless going, though, then the motherboard soon after, so you may have a different issue. But it doesn't sound pretty. It could be coincidental that this happened when you upgraded to 12.10 (not sure why you would upgrade from five years support to 18 months unless there is some very specific reason to fix something that's not broke) or could be inherent to 12.10 and your hardware.

Anyhow, HP offered to repair/replace these machines during the warranty period and from memory for 12 months beyond the warranty expiry. They were forced to by public pressure after initially refusing to even acknowledge there was a problem. This was a real win for the consumer because their attitude and behaviour about the whole thing stank. 

Don't want to be the voice of doom and this may not be your problem, but just thought I'd give you a heads up regarding the worldwide recall on these models (only if they showed the symptoms and not all of them did). Have a dig and you'll find info about it. Good luck.

PS: If there was no real reason to upgrade to 12.10 I would simply reinstall 12.04 LTS and sit back til 2017 with a stable machine unless you are on a quest to fix bugs. Create a couple of spare partitions to play around with the interim releases, install 12.10 on one of them and maybe report any probs to help develops (which will help create another stable LTS when they get there).

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-05-22
These are probably all related. If your graphics card is ATI or Nvidia and you don't have the driver installed, the system will use CPU rendering which will use more CPU power, causing slowdown and raising the heat level.

What graphics card or GPU do you have?

---

### Post by Myst1234 on 2013-05-22
@buckyball -
I'm not 100'% sure how old it is(bought it used for cheap and installed linux on it) but it's a couple years old for sure. I didn't know about the recall, but it was ok before the upgrade. I suppose i will take your advice and reinstall 12.04, I just always like to see whats new, whats coming and I do dabble in bug fixes, though not a full on OS developer. Not smart this time obviously.

---

### Post by Myst1234 on 2013-05-22
@**[COLOR=#C61919][mörgæs]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=939075") I have not tried to disassemble anything. That seems like a last resort.[/COLOR]**

---

### Post by Myst1234 on 2013-05-22
@ **[COLOR=#000000][arpanaut]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=45953") I'm not totally sure, this is a new comp to me. as I said I bought it used so that could have something to do with it[/COLOR]**[COLOR=#000000][/COLOR]

---

### Post by Myst1234 on 2013-05-22
> [COLOR=#000000]What graphics card or GPU do you have?[/COLOR]
Nvidia I think

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-05-22
> **Myst1234 said:**
> @**[COLOR=#C61919][mörgæs]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=939075") I have not tried to disassemble anything. That seems like a last resort.[/COLOR]**

Well... when I get my hands on some used gear it's always the first I do.

Though you like Unity you could also try Lubuntu for comparison. Every way of generating less heat is beneficial.

---

### Post by Myst1234 on 2013-05-22
> **mörgæs said:**
> Well... when I get my hands on some used gear it's always the first I do.

Though you like Unity you could also try Lubuntu for comparison. Every way of generating less heat is beneficial.

I'd be more afraid of taking something apart that I cannot put back together.

I run Lubuntu on my netbook as I said in the first post, I'd like to keep Unity (if I can) on my larger HP laptop

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-05-23
All good. As I mentioned, if you have the space make a small partition to test other releases on (you can use the existing /swap and /home, if you have one, by choosing 'Something Else' when you get to the partitioning section and mark them to use but NOT to format).

---

