---
title: "Cannot get ATI 9800 Running Properly"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by msarro on 2008-04-26
So far I have attempted the following methods -
*Using the built in ATI Restricted driver
*Using envyNG and the 8.3 driver
*Using the ATI installer as described here for the 8.4 driver ([http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide) - both methods tried and failed)

It seems like no matter what I do, I'm always stuck with the MESA driver. Has anyone had any luck with this? I'm no longer stuck with a white screen of death. Output of fglrx prints the following:
OpenGL vendor string: Mesa project: [www.mesa3d.org](www.mesa3d.org)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa GLX Indirect
OpenGL version string: 1.4 (2.1 Mesa 7.0.3-rc2)

Any help, please? I've been fighting with this since I installed two days ago. Its starting to make me regret ever switching 100% from windows


Also, here is my xorg.conf file:
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Nevermore on 2008-04-26
reinstall libmesa drivers..
this will fix it

---

### Post by msarro on 2008-04-26
I tried reinstalling through synaptic (everything which mentioned mesa) and I haven't seen any changes. Are there any other possibilities?

---

### Post by Lithia on 2008-04-26
I have a Mobility Radeon 9800, and have gotten it working by the following method (this has worked under both Gutsy and now, Hardy).

First, run
```
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx 
sudo apt-get remove linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)

```

Then, modify your /etc/X11/xorg.conf to replace all the lines with 'Driver "fglrx"' with 'Driver "ati"'.  Then reboot.

After rebooting, you will need to reinstall the two packages you removed, but in the opposite order, and then change your xorg.conf file back to the fglrx drivers.

```
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r_)
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
```

After changing your xorg.conf file the second time, reboot.  Run 'fglrxinfo' to be sure that you see something like:
```
~$fglrxinfo
display: :0.0  screen: 0
OpenGL vendor string: ATI Technologies Inc.
OpenGL renderer string: ATI MOBILITY RADEON 9800
OpenGL version string: 2.1.7412 Release

```

Good luck, and hope this helps!

---

### Post by msarro on 2008-04-27
Just tried it, sadly once again mesa is still there. How can it keep coming up if fglrx is in the xorg.conf file? I'm kind of confused about how the whole process works... x reads the config file, should see the device driver... and that should be what it loads right? Am I missing something stupid?

I doublechecked that it was no longer blacklisted, so I can't really see why its not working... I didn't have nearly this much trouble with feisty.

---

### Post by Lithia on 2008-04-27
When you did the uninstall, did you check to make sure that all the linux-restricted-modules-* packages were uninstalled?  For me, the installation actually installed linux-restricted-modules-*version*-386, where as $(uname -r) returns *version*-generic.  Make sure all these get uninstalled.  If that doesn't work, let me know and I will try to help troubleshoot this further.

As for how it works, I am not completely sure.  X reads the config file, but the Mesa driver seems to be a default ATI driver when that doesn't work.  And the fglrx installation seems not to work correctly unless the restricted module is installed first.  Again, I am not completely certain why.

---

### Post by tosoth on 2008-04-27
> **msarro said:**
> Just tried it, sadly once again mesa is still there. How can it keep coming up if fglrx is in the xorg.conf file? I'm kind of confused about how the whole process works... x reads the config file, should see the device driver... and that should be what it loads right? Am I missing something stupid?

I doublechecked that it was no longer blacklisted, so I can't really see why its not working... I didn't have nearly this much trouble with feisty.

Have you read this?
[Troubleshooting]("http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Troubleshooting")
Especialy sections "No 3D acceleration" and "Graphical Anomalies".

---

### Post by hodenkat on 2008-04-27
Cool! This seems to have worked!!!

On first reboot I was able to enable the effects and NO video corruption.
I am using an ATI Mobility Radeon 7500 on my IBM T-40 laptop using 8.04 with no glitches just like I was on 7.10!


THANK YOU!!! YOU RULE!:guitar:

---

### Post by mr_smitty on 2008-04-28
Hhhmmmm...none of the above solutions worked for me :(

I am using a ATI Radeon 9800 card...

Being relatively new to Ubuntu (and Linux) can anyone help me with further progress.

I recently tried Wubi with Ubuntu 7.04 and Desktop Effects worked beautifully...

-Martin

---

### Post by Jive Turkey on 2008-04-28
try:
```
sudo apt-get remove xserver-xorg-video-all
```
then reboot.

I have the same card and that has worked for me in the past for the problem you describe.

Looking in synaptic though it shows I have that packge installed.

If you have video problems after rebooting get to commandline mode and type:
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-all
```

good luck

---

### Post by melat0nin on 2008-04-28
Is the result of this thread that you can run Compiz effects and have 3D acceleration?

I am using the standard driver than came with Hardy (not the restricted one) and Compiz works great, but I can't run anything 3D in Wine, and some other native 3D apps run really slow (like Tuxkart).  However, OpenArena runs really well, implying that OpenGL is working fine.  I have a sneaking suspicion that my CPU is doing much of the Compiz work, because my comp runs hot as hell.  Could be very wrong about that, though.

Any thoughts what steps I should take?  I care more about Compiz running than 3D, but it would be really great to have them both going properly -- then I can try to get games running in Wine and that might spell the end of my Windows partition.

---

### Post by CarpKing on 2008-04-28
If Compiz is working properly, you have 3d acceleration.  The way Compiz works just makes OpenGL-using programs act a little fruity at times because they are not redirected; this will be fixed when DRI2 is implemented.

---

### Post by mr_smitty on 2008-04-29
Tried...> **Jive Turkey said:**
> try:
```
sudo apt-get remove xserver-xorg-video-all
```
then reboot.

I have the same card and that has worked for me in the past for the problem you describe.

Looking in synaptic though it shows I have that packge installed.

If you have video problems after rebooting get to commandline mode and type:
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-all
```

good luck

but still no luck...

I did not mentioned this earlier, but I am using Wubi on 8.04 too...

I am loosing track of all the good advice given here...so strange that people get quite different results...

-Martin

---

