---
title: ".sh problems"
date: 2009-01-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Flagsdon on 2009-01-27
Hey,
I'm running Ubuntu 8.04 off of an i386 machine, and I have been for about a month now. Recently, upon returning to my highschool, I attempted to access the wireless server, and I needed to download a file called CSA.sh. This is for the school tech department, so that they can check to see that your computer matches certain requirements. I downloaded the .sh file, and ran it through the terminal using 'cd Desktop' and 'sh CSA.sh.' Upon doing this, I was given this:
"mkdir: cannot create directory `.CSA.TEMP': File exists
awk: cannot open /home/judd/Desktop//home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh (No such file or directory)
tail: +: invalid number of lines

gzip: stdin: unexpected end of file
tar: This does not look like a tar archive
tar: Error exit delayed from previous errors
chmod: cannot access `./engine': No such file or directory
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 11: ./engine: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 12: function: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 18: mozilla: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 18: mozilla: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 19: function: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 25: netscape: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 25: netscape: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 26: function: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 30: function: not found

(epiphany-browser:16879): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: value "((GaProtocol) 2)" of type `GaProtocol' is invalid or out of range for property `flags' of type `GaProtocol'

(epiphany-browser:16879): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: value "((GaProtocol) 2)" of type `GaProtocol' is invalid or out of range for property `flags' of type `GaProtocol'

(epiphany-browser:16879): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_hash_table_unref: assertion `hash_table != NULL' failed

(epiphany-browser:16879): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_hash_table_unref: assertion `hash_table != NULL' failed
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 34: function: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 37: konqueror: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 38: function: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 46: seamonkey: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 46: seamonkey: not found
/home/judd/Desktop/CSA.sh: 47: function: not found
ERROR: ld.so: object 'libjvm.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded: ignored.
ERROR: ld.so: object 'libawt.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded: ignored.
Error running CSA.sh.  Please call the helpdesk.
rm: cannot remove `engine': No such file or directory
rm: cannot remove `agent.config': No such file or directory
rm: cannot remove `tmp.csa': No such file or directory"

It opened up Firefox and Opera, trying to display the results page, however, it didn't load, and when I went to run the file again, it had been deleted from my desktop. Is there any way to fix this?

Thanks.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-01-27
not sure but looks like you may have taken the wrong approach. It looks like there is an archive...a package. Right click that and select extract here. Then cd into the directory that the extraction creates. In there run the sh like: ```
./CSA.sh
```
You may first need to make it executable:```
chmod +x CSA.sh
```Assuming that is the name of the file, and of course all file names are case sensitive in linux.

---

### Post by Flagsdon on 2009-01-27
Well, I tried using the chmod previously, and it showed no results. I can't extract the package, either. The package manager doesn't recognize the file as an archive, and when I try to open it, it closes out of the package manager. I've also tried redownloading the file, that didn't change anything.

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-01-27
generally commands are carried out silently. That is, the command executes and you will get no feedback as long as there is no error. Not sure about the "package" have you tried running "unzip <package name>" from the terminal in the directory "Desktop?"

---

### Post by Flagsdon on 2009-01-27
Well, what I mean by no results is that when I attempt to run/use the file, it doesn't change the outcome.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-01-27
It looks like CSA.sh ran just fine. I suggest you forward the output (that you posted at the top) to the 'school tech dept.' and let them sort it out.

 It might be fun to see the text of CSA.sh.

---

