---
title: "24.04.1 no package manager?"
date: 2024-10-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nosphky on 2024-10-03
Just installed UbuntuStudio 24.04.1 and I've been looking for a gui package manager without success. I think the graphical package manager in 22.04 LTS was called something like Muon and was listed in the launcher under 'System'. Although the terminal works fine for installing a package, I found the  gui based package manager useful and more comfortable for overviews as well as installation  and deletion.

Has this been abandoned in 24.04 LTS? If not, where is it hiding? Otherwise, any  suggestions for installing one?

---

### Post by Norm24 on 2024-10-03
I use GDebi to handle .deb packages that I've downloaded and Synaptic to handle packages from the repos.

```
sudo apt install gdebi

sudo apt install synaptic
```

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2024-10-03
As suggested above, my personal recommendation would be Synaptic.

---

### Post by Nosphky on 2024-10-03
Thank you Norm24. I do use gdebi to install any deb packages that I've located elsewhere.

What I'm really missing is a graphic interface where I can see at once what QT6 packages are missing (for example). I do find a graphical interface more user friendly than the terminal and since I had Muon as part of 22.04 LTS, I expected to see it in 24.04 as well.

Thanks Rubi1200 for suggesting Synaptic.  Any opinions on how it compares with Muon?

Edit:  Whoops -- some searches on the net indicate that Muon is no longer maintained and no longer supported by the KDE Project so that no doubt explains why I didn't find it in UbuntuStudio 24.04.1.  I'll load Synaptic.

---

### Post by Nosphky on 2024-10-03
After loading synaptic, I asked it to reload and it produced a list of 26 errors indicating multiple entries in two files. The first 7 for these errors are typical of the rest :
```
W: Target Packages (universe/binary-amd64/Packages) is configured multiple times in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/dvd.list:3 and /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources:2 
 W: Target Packages (universe/binary-all/Packages) is configured multiple times in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/dvd.list:3 and /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources:2 
 W: Target Translations (universe/i18n/Translation-en_US) is configured multiple times in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/dvd.list:3 and /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources:2 
 W: Target Translations (universe/i18n/Translation-en) is configured multiple times in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/dvd.list:3 and /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources:2 
 W: Target Translations (universe/i18n/Translation-en_GB) is configured multiple times in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/dvd.list:3 and /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources:2 
 W: Target DEP-11 (universe/dep11/Components-amd64.yml) is configured multiple times in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/dvd.list:3 and /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources:2 
 W: Target DEP-11 (universe/dep11/Components-all.yml) is configured multiple times in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/dvd.list:3 and /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ubuntu.sources:2 
  
```

I thought this would be an easy edit so I opened the two referenced files, dvd.list and ubuntu.sources :

dvd.list
```
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ noble universe multiverse
deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ noble-updates universe multiverse
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ noble-security universe multiverse
```

ubuntu.sources
```
Types: deb
URIs: http://fr.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/
Suites: noble noble-updates noble-backports
Components: main restricted universe multiverse
Signed-By: /usr/share/keyrings/ubuntu-archive-keyring.gpg

Types: deb
URIs: http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/
Suites: noble-security
Components: main restricted universe multiverse
Signed-By: /usr/share/keyrings/ubuntu-archive-keyring.gpg
```

Can anybody tell me what is required as an edit to prevent this error report by synaptic, or doesn't it matter?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2024-10-03
Remove the security line in the dvd.list file.

---

### Post by Nosphky on 2024-10-04
> **deadflowr said:**
> Remove the security line in the dvd.list file.

I've tried that and no longer get that error message. But does that have any adverse consequences for security updates?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2024-10-04
> **Nosphky said:**
> I've tried that and no longer get that error message. But does that have any adverse consequences for security updates?

No.
Because it's already in the ubuntu.sources file.

EDIT:
Now that I look at it, you could probably just delete the dvd.list file completely.
All entries there are provided in the ubuntu.sources file.

The only difference I see is the dvd.list file is pulling from the main archive and the ubuntu.sources file is pulling from the french archive.
 
In terms of which is better, if you're in France then that's probably going to be the better archive to pull from.
I think the main archive.ubuntu servers are somewhere in England.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2024-10-04
> **Nosphky said:**
> I've tried that and no longer get that error message. But does that have any adverse consequences for security updates?

It shouldn't. You got that warning (it's not an error; the message starts with 'W:' not with 'E:' and processing should have continued despite it) because the same source of updates was defined twice.

Holger

---

### Post by Nosphky on 2024-10-04
Thanks, guys. I'll mark this one closed.

---

