---
title: "16.04 hang on shutdown after upgrade from 14.04"
date: 2017-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by majest2 on 2017-02-06
A couple of months ago I did the upgrade from Xubuntu 14 LTS to 16 LTS.

Unfortunately it has been a whole lot of trouble. The biggest problem is about 25% of the time my laptop hangs on shutdown. The CPU seems to ramp up to max (fans go on). I've searched the issue and it seems the solution is to install the 4.9 kernel. However the only way to do that seems to be add a dodgy looking ppa and install from that.

I removed "quiet splash" from the GRUB options and can now see some messages when it hangs. I didn't manage to copy paste or screenshot but scribbled one scary looking line down just before it rebooted: cpu1 machine check exception. I've searched that and it says hardware fault - however, this only started happening after I did the upgrade so I'm leary about that. Could be a result of the CPU overheating as a result of the hang.

Anyway, I'm really open to suggestions. I'm on Xubuntu 16.04 on an Acer V5 laptop. Would appreciate clues how to :

1) Upgrade to kernel 4.9.
2) Revert to Ubuntu 14.04.
3) ???
4) Profit

---

### Post by majest2 on 2017-02-06
Another message seen while stuck on shutdown: "not all cpus entereted broadcast exception handling"

---

### Post by majest2 on 2017-02-09
Well I bit the bullet and upgraded to Linux kernel 4.9.6.  "uname -a Linux acer 4.9.0-040900-generic #201612111631 SMP Sun Dec 11 21:33:00 UTC 2016 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux"  Unfortunately it still hangs on shutdown just as before.  I'm now looking for ways to revert back to 14.04. I know it's going unsupported soon but better than what I have now.

---

### Post by majest2 on 2017-07-20
OK last post on this topic from me :) I have been hang free for several weeks now. The solution was to downgrade the kernel. For me, this works:

uname -a
Linux acer 4.4.0-67-generic #88-Ubuntu SMP Wed Mar 8 16:34:45 UTC 2017 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2017-07-20
Glad you found a kernel that worked for you.

For the record, your CPU wouldn't have been doing any work to overheat at that point; it's just that the service that controls the fan speed would have stopped. Hence, the fans run at full speed.

---

