---
title: "10.04 Themes"
date: 2014-01-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by agkq62 on 2014-01-07
A long time ago I loaded 10.04 on my old Mum's laptop and she loves it, finding it very easy and simple. 

 I have just replaced the hard drive and reloaded 10.04 ( must say I like it too) but on the old setup I had the"Clearlook2 Squared Berrries" theme which gave very clear icons at the top of the window. The "get more themes online" link in Appearance is no longer working. Anywhere I can get and load this theme?

Thanks

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-07
Bit off topic, but 10.04 LTS has reached end of life, as you probably know. I mention this because as time goes by, it becomes more vulnerable, security-wise. It has had no updates since last April, security or otherwise. If your mum isn't online, not a problem. 

I built a machine for my mother-in-law who was about seventy then, and she started with 8.04 LTS>10.04 LTS and I have just installed Xubuntu 12.04 LTS at christmas time (she lives 750Km away). I thought the shock of the new, meaning Unity, would not appeal and didn't have much time. I use Xubuntu and know it well so I put a stock Xubuntu 12.04 LTS on there. She was into it straight away and using it as per 10.04's Gnome. Xfce is very similar and easily customisable so I just put things where she had them in Gnome.

Just a thought and suggestion as the software is getting old on 10.04 now and the security issue is worth considering. ;)

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-07
All Ubuntu 10.04 desktop flavours has passed end of life. Only the Ubuntu server 10.04 LTS is still valid. It means that the security updates and in general, support for updates and installations from the repositories is no longer maintained for the desktop specific packages. I suggest that you try the new version of Lubuntu, 13.10 or some flavour or re-spin of Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (that have support until April 2015 or April 2017. See this thread [Old hardware brought back to life]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2130640")

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-07
Lubuntu 10.04? I mentioned Xubuntu 12.04 LTS. ;)

But Lubuntu is another option. Also similar to Gnome.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-07
Sorry. I read Lubuntu, when it is Ubuntu 10.04 in the opening post. I was writing my post while yours was posted, ***Bucky Ball***, so I was "ninja'd". I do not intend to argue about suitable flavours. Xubuntu 12.04 LTS is a good option, that I often suggest for old computers, now that Lubuntu 12.04 has passed end of life.

---

### Post by fred19 on 2014-01-08
Thanks for the replies, I will give Xubuntu a try. If dear old Mum wants to stay with Ubuntu 10.04, with regards to security, what is the worst that could happen

---

### Post by sudodus on 2014-01-08
Someone might steal the money from all her bank accounts, if she uses the computer to pay bills and manage bank accounts.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2014-01-08
> **fred19 said:**
> Thanks for the replies, I will give Xubuntu a try. If dear old Mum wants to stay with Ubuntu 10.04, with regards to security, what is the worst that could happen

In all likelihood, nothing. But Ubuntu 10.04's software repositories are down, it wont support any peripherals made after 2009 (except storage devices) and your ability to get any support or help with the system will be virtually nil. As your Firefox gets old, there will be fewer websites that work correctly with it. This will be very frustrating. There is a certainty of being vulnerable to security flaws that have been patched in newer versions, but it's not probable that you will really be affected on a simple Linux desktop. 

I recommend you upgrade for the non-security reasons.

---

### Post by kostkon on 2014-01-08
> **3rdalbum said:**
> There is a certainty of being vulnerable to security flaws that have been patched in newer versions, but it's not probable that you will really be affected on a simple Linux desktop.
Sorry, but you are wrong. In the case of Firefox, we are talking about cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities; it means that when you visit a malicious site someone can really steal personal information from you and it wouldn't matter if you are running Ubuntu or Windows (or Mac OS X for that matter.)

In other words, it's not about Windows malware, but browser vulnerabilities that can affect everyone.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2014-01-08
> **kostkon said:**
> Sorry, but you are wrong. In the case of Firefox, we are talking about cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities; it means that when you visit a malicious site someone can really steal personal information from you and it wouldn't matter if you are running Ubuntu or Windows (or Mac OS X for that matter.)

In other words, it's not about Windows malware, but browser vulnerabilities that can affect everyone.

You are correct - thanks. I was thinking only of attacks against your operating system, I had forgotten cross site scripting where the attack and stolen data is completely internal to the browser.

---

### Post by fred19 on 2014-01-10
Thanks again for the info. i have tried L & X unbuntu but I still much prefer the old 10.04.

I have managed to load Firefox 26 and also Chrome so hopefully that will solve the security problem and have found the themes I was after on an old hard drive.

The screen shot shows my setup and it  makes the important icons stand out for the older user and the desktop is just plain and simple. My old Mum will be very happy.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-01-10
All good. I have attached your pic. Please attach larger pics rather than inserting them in your post. Spare a thought for those with slow connections and vision issues. ;)

You can attach by 'Go Advanced' and using the paperclip icon. 

If you consider this solved please help others by marking it that way by following the link in my signature.

---

### Post by fred19 on 2014-01-11
Oops, sorry, i'll remember in future :D

---

### Post by fred19 on 2014-01-11
Thread Tools, top right, doesn't have the option to set to Solved. Am I being dim again.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-01-11
> **fred19 said:**
> Thread Tools, top right, doesn't have the option to set to Solved. Am I being dim again.

Only the Original Poster (OP) and staff have that option...
That's why it's better to start your own thread instead of seeking help  in someone else's...

---

