---
title: "GUI Grub Editor for 10.04?"
date: 2010-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by HighlyDubious on 2010-07-27
Ok, I've searched, but I must be blind because I can't seem to find any definitive How To for a GUI Grub2 Editor.

I recently did a new/clean install of Ubuntu 10.04. I've also instaled the KDE & Xfce desktop environments, so your responses don't have to be limited to Gnome.

Now (for reasons that are not worth explaining here) I need to edit my Grub menu to remove some extraneous items and change the order of items.

I've found a few links that talk about manually editing, but I'm looking for a good GUI Grub2 Editor.

I've used *buntu variants off and on for the past couple of years, but still consider myself a newbie. So I'd prefer to use something fairly simple and intuitive.

I'd appreciate any suggestions for a simple, intutitive GUI Grub2 Editor.

---

### Post by vishaluc on 2010-07-27
Why don't u give a shot at terminal. its easy enough. i'm new too but working on terminal isnt a very big deal. open terminal from accessories and type the following code:

sudo nautilus /boot/grub/

then enter your password when prompted, and then the grub folder will automatically open. 
search for a file called grub.cfg and open it. In the latter half of the text u should find menu entries, codes are simple enough to be understood, and just delete the menu entries you dont wantand save it.

i'v also attached a file which shows approximately how your grub.cfg file can look after it is edited. check it out.

---

### Post by vishaluc on 2010-07-27
Why don't u give a shot at terminal. its easy enough. i'm new too but working on terminal isnt a very big deal. open terminal from accessories and type the following code:

sudo nautilus /boot/grub/

then enter your password when prompted, and then the grub folder will automatically open. 
search for a file called grub.cfg and open it. In the latter half of the text u should find menu entries, codes are simple enough to be understood, and just delete the menu entries you don't want and save it.

i'v also attached a file which shows approximately how your grub.cfg file can look after it is edited. check it out.

---

### Post by HighlyDubious on 2010-07-27
I realize this may be a silly question, but isn't that the same file that clearly says: 

> #
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#
Before I posted my question I had already loaded grub.cfg into an editor. But when I saw that warning I went looking for a GUI editor so I wouldn't have to worry if I was going to mess up something through sheer ignorance. The last thing I need is to completely f* up my grub, and then my entire system won't boot. 

I've got multiple OS's across multiple HD's and partitions. I don't want to have to do an emergency data recover and then reinstall everything all over again just because I lack the skills to recover from grub bombing due to my ignorance and not editing the all the right files in all the right folders.

vishaluc, I appreciate your suggestion, and I might eventually do as you suggest. But I'd much rather use a GUI editor that is especially built for this. I'm usually comfortable editing general config files, but when it comes to something as critical as MBR and GRUB, I don't want to blindly blunder and pay the price later with several days worth of system recovery and restore.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-07-27
You can use *startupmanager* to change the default OS. SUM was designed for Grub legacy but some of the items still work for Grub2. It's in the repositories. The creator of StartUp Manager said he was working on a newer version for Grub 2 - so far there have been some improvements only to the original SUM

If some of the menu items you want to remove from your menu include older kernels, you can use Ubuntu Tweak to safely remove them. Once they are removed they will also be removed from your Grub2 menu. 

Here is a bit of information on both StartUp-Manager and Ubuntu Tweak. For Ubuntu Tweak, see the section on "Removing Older Kernels"

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818177]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=818177")

---

