---
title: "10.04 Desktop with a third panel: wnck-applet has memory leak"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by swizman on 2010-05-06
I added a third panel on the left side and now the wnck-applet is using an increasing amount of memory.

From System Monitor:

wnck-applet Sleeping 0 0 1951 70.4 MiB poll_schedule_timeout 

/usr/lib/gnome-panel/wnck-applet --oaf-activate-iid=OAFIID:GNOME_Wncklet_Factory --oat-ior-fd=18


5/5/2010  6:06   4.9 MB wnck-applet after reboot   
5/6/2010  9:16  60.6 MB
5/6/2010  13:13 70.2 MB


Ubuntu 10.04 release fresh install and one Kernel upgrade
Linux 2.6.32-22-generic #33-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 28 13:28:05 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

Anybody else have this?

---

### Post by swizman on 2010-05-07
I filed a bug report. Please sign up there if you have the same problem.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/576751](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/576751)

---

### Post by swizman on 2010-05-18
Update:

In my case, workspace switching causes the memory increase of the wnck-apple.

Having the System Monitor on display on one workspace, I switch to an other workspace containing an open window and immediately back.

Each time the wnck-applet has a memory increases by 0.2 MB and the gnome-panel by 0.1 MB.

Removing the Window List applet from the bottom panel fixes the memory increase and the wnck-applet stays always at 6.8 MB (after reboot). However the Window List is an important applet and I do not want to be without it. 


Here is a list of other things I tried:  

1. Removing Compiz. 
2. Increasing or decreasing the number of Desktops.
3. Different workspace switching: using mouse pinter, mouse wheel, keyboard Ctrl-Alt-right/left, Alt-Tab, Super-Tab.
4. gconftool-2 --set -t bool /apps/panel/global/locked_down true > locks all panels.
5. killall gnome-panel > refresh all panels.
6. sudo killall wnck-applet > clears out three bottom panel applets (except trashcan).
7. Reinstalling the three panels Window List, Window Selector, Workspace Switcher.
8. Reboot after each step.
9. Remove third panel on the left.

No matter what I did, 10.04 used more and more memory. After just 2 days, wck-applet was at 57.3 MB) and gnome-panel at 44.4 MB. Total memory use was 80 % of my 2 GB of memory and I have to reboot to bring it back down to an initial 40 %. 

On a completely unrelated note, I was also unhappy about the default themes Ambiance (too dark) and Radiance (too light and washed out). So I experimented with 
using Radiance and mixing in the controls from Ambiance. But then I found the theme Finery (improved Radiance theme) and installed it => Bingo! 

All memory problems gone, wck-applet stays at 3.9 MB, gnome panel stays at 6.0 MB, total memory use after 2 days is only 50%, and I am using my third panel.

So now I started testing out different themes and check for memory increase. I found that only Ambiance and Radiance are causing memory increase, all others themes are OK.

Further, after first using Finery, I can then switch back to Ambiance, and as long I do not change anything (like colors or window border), Ambiance is now OK too. However, as soon that I modify Ambiance, or I use Radiance, the memory increase is starting again.

Conclusion: the memory leak is caused by a combination of things: Window List applet, themes Ambiance or Radiance and workspace switching. 

Fixes: 1. Use another theme than Ambiance or Radiance.
          2. Switch first to the theme Finery and then back to Ambiance.
          3. Remove  Window List applet from the bottom panel.  

[http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Finery+%28improved+Radiance+theme%29?content=124694](http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Finery+%28improved+Radiance+theme%29?content=124694)

---

### Post by swizman on 2010-05-18
Another, related bug:



After my fresh install of 10.04 and using Ambiance: 



Right-click on a panel > Click on: New Panel > No new panel shows up > log-out > log-in > new panel shows up the right side.



This bug also disappears by installing and using the theme Finery and then switching back to Ambiance.   





[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1483101](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1483101)

 Re: New panel doesn't shows up immediately upon its adding  



[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1486707](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1486707)

 Ubuntu 'new panel' question

---

### Post by swizman on 2010-05-19
Solved:

I did a reprofiling at bootup. 

This resulted in a lower memory and cache use, fixed the wck-applet memory leak with theme Radiance and gave a faster bootup. Very impressive result.
I have no memory leak anymore.

Perhaps reprofiling is the correct solution for all memory and panel related problems?  



[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=254263](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=254263)
 TIP: Improve bootup speed by reprofiling bootup

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-06-07
> **swizman said:**
> Solved:

I did a reprofiling at bootup. 

This resulted in a lower memory and cache use, fixed the wck-applet memory leak with theme Radiance and gave a faster bootup. Very impressive result.
I have no memory leak anymore.

Perhaps reprofiling is the correct solution for all memory and panel related problems?  



[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=254263](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=254263)
 TIP: Improve bootup speed by reprofiling bootup
That shouldn't do anything in 10.04?
9.10 and 10.04 use ureadahead, and not sreadahead so that howto shouldn't apply.

---

### Post by bluefoot on 2010-09-15
> **swizman said:**
> I added a third panel on the left side and now the wnck-applet is using an increasing amount of memory.



how did you added a new panel?
editing: I have found the option. sorry.

---

### Post by Irony on 2010-09-15
Uninstalling gtk2 cured my xorg and wnck-applet leak.

---

