---
title: "How to get additional OS bootable via GRUB?"
date: 2014-09-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-09-07
Afternoon, all.

I've got a little bit of a poser here. I'm not sure this is the right forum for this one, so if I've got it wrong, admins, please relocate it.

I've got dual-boot, with Ubuntu 14.04 & Zorin's Core OS 9 on my system. Furthermore, on an external USB hard drive, I have Kubuntu, Lubuntu, Xubuntu & Linux Mint 17. 

I've got a bunch of small partitions I set up for this kind of thing a couple of months ago, as you can see from the snapshot below:-

[ATTACH=CONFIG]256232[/ATTACH]

sdb3 is Kubuntu;
sdb5 is Lubuntu;
sdb6 is Xubuntu;
sdb7 is Linux Mint 17.

sdb1 was originally set up when I was running Windows XP, before I switched to Linux. It's where I keep all my data, backups, etc., and since Linux has no problem reading NTFS, I've left it well alone.

I've just recently installed 'Precise' Puppy Linux 5.7.1 to sdb8. I've run 'grub-update' a few times, but Grub doesn't recognise Puppy Linux; I can't say I'm surprised, because although you CAN install it to a hard drive partition, it's really intended for booting off a flashdrive.....and I believe it boots in a different way to the 'buntus & their derivatives.

My question is this; is there a way in which I can add it to Grub, so that I can choose it alongside my other distros? Or, failing that, a way in which I can select it so that I CAN boot it? As I'm sure most of you are aware, you can select a particular device in the BIOS at startup; but I don't think there's any way you can actually select a specific partition on any given device.....or is there?

I used to have it installed ON a flashdrive; but since I now need that flashdrive for other purposes, this is why I've installed it on the external HDD.....LOTS of space to play with.

Any advice would be appreciated. I am MORE than willing to learn..!


Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by stretch4 on 2014-09-07
Well, I'm not sure how to add an operating system. Usually GRUB does a pretty good job of finding them on it's own. You can try using Grub Customizer. It will give you a nice GUI to set up your grub configuration. Maybe that will help. Hopefully someone else will have better advice for you.
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:danielrichter2007/grub-customizer
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install grub-customizer
```

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2014-09-07
I don't know anything about Puppy or how it installs, but have you tried ```
sudo os-prober
``` ?

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-09-07
I don't have Puppy installed right now but have had it installed to a partition previously and had no problem booting it.  Puppy hasn't been designed to run on flash drives only as it has been around since Junne, 2003 which is almost a year prior to the first release of Ubuntu and a time when bootable flash drives were not used or at least not commonly used.  Puppy is different in some basic ways but the os-prober and update-grub commands run from your primary boot system should detect it if it properly installed to a partition.  If those commands don't work, mount the Puppy partition and post the file in the root of the drive as well as in the /boot directory.  Not sure which Grub it uses, Legacy or Grub2 so you will have to take a look.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-09-07
Hi, guys. Thanks for showing an interest.

@stretch4; I do in fact have grub customizer installed! The problem is that it doesn't list Puppy, OR even the sdb8 partition, even though I KNOW it's there.

@oldos2er; I have indeed, young man. I did give this a try (I'd forgotten about it, to be honest); once again, the problem is that the sdb8 partition is not recognized, even though all the modules show up under the particular volume when it's selected in nautilus, so.....I may not have installed it properly. Either that, or Grub is simply not recognising the bootloader.

@ yancek; YOU sound as though you might be the fella to help me here..! However, this is where my inexperience shows...

"If those commands don't work, mount the Puppy partition and post the  file in the root of the drive as well as in the /boot directory"

Would you care to elucidate? I'm okay with mounting the partition, but I'm not certain what you mean by posting the file in the root of the drive; which file, and how DO I place it in the root of the drive? Sorry to sound like such a noob, but that IS what I am... I'm afraid I really need some step-by-step instructions here!


Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-09-07
Grub will look in /boot/grub for a file called grub.cfg to create its menu. The grub.cfg file is generated by update-grub out of scripts in /etc/grub.d. Including a Script called 30_os-prober.

How does os-prober find other OS? It is well beyond me. But it does manage to find Windows boot loaders. So, the question is, where does Puppy Linux put its Linux kernels and grub configuration files? Is it using grub.cfg or the old menu.list?

Regards.

EDIT: you may need to create a custom menu using 40_custom as a template

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/CustomMenus](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/CustomMenus)

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-09-07
So you have verified that you are running 'sudo os-prober' and 'sudo updatae-grub' from the system which is installed to the master boot record and still Puppy is not detected.  What we are looking for are the files in the Puppy partition which you indicate is /dev/sdb8.  Have you checked to see if you have a mount point under the /media directory for Puppy on sdb8 in whichever system you primarily use, Ubuntu, Lubuntu,etc.  If you don't know, boot your primary system and open a terminal and create a mount point:  

```
sudo mkdir /mnt/puppy
```

Then mount it so it is accessible.

```
sudo mount /dev/sdb8 /mnt/puppy
```

If you get an error about needing to specify a filesystem type, change the command to:  ```
sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sdb8 /mnt/puppy
``` 

I'm not sure if Puppy uses ext4 as a default, so if that also result in an error, replace ext4 with ext3, if that fails replace it with ext2.  Should be one of those.  Once you have done that you can go to the /mnt/puppy directory and see what directories and files are there and let us know.  You could also run this from a terminal  ls /mnt/puppy/
Check to see where the vmlinux (kernel) file is, either the / (root) of the filesystem or the boot directory.  Also look in the Grub directory.  I believe Puppy still uses Grub Legacy so see if there is a menu.lst file in /mnt/puppy/boot/grub.

I'm surprised running sudo update-grub didn't create an entry for you, it almost always works and there should be no reason Puppy doesn't.  Unless you did a frugal install?  Is Puppy the only thing on sdb8?

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-09-08
Afternoon, all; sorry to be a while getting back to you on this. Been one of those days...

@Graham; Thanks for the interest again, Graham. I've gotta confess, you do seem to understand this business of Grub and the config files and stuff better than me! I'm getting a wee bit tangled up here...

As far as I can tell, this particular version of Puppy doesn't seem to be using Grub, so.....quite what that means, I don't know. And despite apparently being based on 12.04, it seems to be using a somewhat older kernel, too; 2.6-something-or-other? Mean anything to you?

It rather looks like I'm going to have to get my hands dirty on this, and start getting into the guts of the OS; something I haven't done since the days of MS-DOS.....I'm a bit rusty!

What would you recommend trying next, if anything? Scripting never was my strong point; I'm seriously thinking about enrolling on that EDX course about Linux..! I'm thinking, as a relative newcomer to Linux, it might not be a bad idea.....though as we all know, there's NO substitute for hands-on experience...

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2014-09-08
This might help: If you consult distrowatch.com, you can get some facts on the Puppy. Click on Puppy in the 'hit' list on the right. There is a chart on its page showing the versions of major software (including grub version); also filesystem, architecture, and desktop used going several years back from the current version of Puppy - "Slacko".

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-09-08
Thanks for that, Dennis.

Like I said in my last post, it looks like I'm going to have to "get my hands dirty (!)" I haven't done any serious digging around in the guts of a system since I can't remember when.....at LEAST 30 years or so. I got fat and lazy, using Windows for all these years; and the Linux kernel structure is distinctly different to what I remember tinkering with!

Oh, well; if the worst comes to the worst, I can always re-install... ;)

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-09-08
What is the output of the commands I suggested earlier?  You might try downloading and running the bootinfoscript to get more detailed information.  From the link below:

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-09-08
I have not tried puppy for several years, but was able to use this boot stanza then. You can use it as a starting point in getting your 'hands dirty'.

       I did have to move lupu-511.sfs to the top level of the partition ( same as /boot not inside /boot) and created /boot/lupu511 with all the other files including vmlinux & initrd.gz.
I was booting from my sdc drive but grub was sda as hd0, sdb as hd1, and sdc as hd2, but drive grub boots from is always hd0 and other drive are usually in SATA port order. But mine change if I plug in a flash drive. 
```
menuentry "Puppy 511" {
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd2,msdos12)'
        linux /boot/lupu511/vmlinuz root=/dev/ram0 pmedia=atahd loglevel=7 pkeys=us 
        initrd /boot/lupu511/initrd.gz
}
```

You have to check what paths and file names are now used. I often have to review boot stanza used by its boot loader and attempt to translate to grub, but path, file names and boot options will be somewhere no matter what boot loader is used.

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-09-08
The menuentry below should chainload a Linux system including Puppy if the boot files are installed properly on the partiiton.  Works for me.  You need to change the (hd0,12) to the correct partition.

> menuentry 'CHAINLOAD ' {
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,12)
chainloader +1
}

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-09-09
My own two cents, and slightly off-topic, but you should think about adding labels to your partitions.
It'll make life so much simpler, especially when you have several that are the same size.

On topic, +1 to oldfred's menuentry scheme.
I'd look at Cavfan's [maintenance free grub wiki]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MaintenanceFreeCustomGrub2Screen") as a good point of the best way to achieve what oldfred was getting at.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-09-09
Hi, everybody.

Sorry for the delay getting back to you all...life's being a pig at the moment!

@yancek; Haven't had a chance to enter those commands yet, but I will have a look at your chainloader. Like I said, I'm pretty rusty.

@oldfred; Thanks for taking an interest. 

Whoa! Okay; THAT is going to take me a while to work through....DON'T expect a quick answer...! ;) Like I said, scripting was NEVER my strong point; trouble is finding time over the next few days to fit this in. That'll give me some pointers, anyway...cheers!

@deadflowr; Thanks for the link; I'll have a look as soon as I get the chance!

@Everybody; Thanks for showing an interest in this. Sorry there's a lack of anything much happening at the moment, but life has a habit of throwing  curve balls at you just when you least expect them... A family "crisis" means I've got to be away for a few days; just wanted to let you all know I'm not ignoring you! I'll have a shot at all this when I get a bit of time to myself (I hope..!)

Regards,

Mike.

---

### Post by Mike_Walsh on 2014-09-11
_UPDATE:-_

Thanks, everybody, for showing an interest in this. I've treated myself to a new flashdrive; so I've installed Puppy to that.....where it works a treat. There's other stuff needs sorting, anyway; the same printer and scanner drivers that work perfectly on all my 'buntu-based distros REFUSE to function on Puppy, so I suspect I need to do a bit more research into the way that Puppy's structure works.....it's not the same, that's for sure.

Cheers, everybody.

Regards,

Mike.

Will mark this as solved.

---

