---
title: "[10.04] System &quot;forgets&quot; screen resolution after first setting"
date: 2010-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by szucslaszlo on 2010-09-25
Hello world!
I have a rather a strange problem. I have two user profiles set up. Once, I decided to change the screen resolution from 1024×768 to 1280×1024. I did this in my profile. It was all okay, until I realized, that the resolution of the other profile has been changed too. I decided to change resolution back to 1024×768. I did this while logged in to the other user profile. Next time, when I started up the computer, the resolution for my profile was 1024×768, but the other one remained in 1280×1024. Ever since, it doesn't matter if I change the settings, it is all reset to this stupid mixed up setting. Does anyone has any guess about what might be causing this behavior? Or is there a way I can manually overwrite the configuration files? Thanks!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-09-26
> **szucslaszlo said:**
> Hello world!
I have a rather a strange problem. I have two user profiles set up. Once, I decided to change the screen resolution from 1024×768 to 1280×1024. I did this in my profile. It was all okay, until I realized, that the resolution of the other profile has been changed too. I decided to change resolution back to 1024×768. I did this while logged in to the other user profile. Next time, when I started up the computer, the resolution for my profile was 1024×768, but the other one remained in 1280×1024. Ever since, it doesn't matter if I change the settings, it is all reset to this stupid mixed up setting. Does anyone has any guess about what might be causing this behavior? Or is there a way I can manually overwrite the configuration files? Thanks!

Look in the (hidden) config files in your original account, you may see a file with the wrong owner credentials.

---

### Post by szucslaszlo on 2010-09-26
Hello David!
Thanks for the tip, I will look into it and give you feedback.

---

