---
title: "10.10 startup repair?"
date: 2010-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cynicl12000 on 2010-12-16
Hello all,

I am currently re-downloading 10.10's installation disc from the server.

The issue I am having is as follows:

While watching a video in VLC, the system became unresponsive.  I did not have the scroll/caps lock flash, just nothing.  The hard drive light indicated activity for the next 10 or so minutes, but I could not get the system to react to key presses, mouse movement, etc.  Pressing Num lock and caps lock did not light their indicators.

I attempted a hard reboot, and now, as soon as post finishes, I see a cursor indicating to me (perhaps incorrectly), that the kernel is trying to load, but then I'm returned to the post screen.

I'm not worried about getting my files out of there, as I've been able to load a Vista startup disc, and am confident that the Ubuntu disc will likely yield the same results.  What I'd like to know is if there is an easy way (easier than setting everything up again) to troubleshoot/correct whatever is preventing me from booting so that I don't have to go through setting everything up again.

Thanks in advance,
Tim

---

### Post by karmila on 2010-12-16
Hi,

Are there any messages or unusual prompt at the screen like grub> or grub rescue>?

---

### Post by cynicl12000 on 2010-12-16
Unfortunately, no.  Post->blinking cursor for about a second->Post->repeat is all I get.

---

### Post by karmila on 2010-12-16
So then the only clue is the blinking cursor... :)

Because you hard reseted your pc before maybe do file system check using live cd can do something.
*sudo fsck /dev/sdax*

/dev/sdax << is your ubuntu partition.

---

### Post by cynicl12000 on 2010-12-16
I ran it a few minutes ago and used the disk utility to determine that the drive is NOT clean.  Used gparted to run a check/repair, but it has yielded no love.

After rebooting to the live cd and running fsck, the output is:

fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2
e2fsck 1.41.12 (17-May-2010)
/dev/sda1: clean, 378580/9371648 files, 20005557/37475840 blocks

---

### Post by cynicl12000 on 2010-12-16
On the bright side, now gparted and "Disk Utility" agree that the file system is clean.

---

### Post by cynicl12000 on 2010-12-16
I'm starting to wonder if another piece of hardware may have gone out and if this might have nothing to do with the hard drive at all.

EDIT: On second thought, that doesn't make a whole lot of sense, as I'm booting to the live USB just fine.

FWIW: the machine is a Dell Inspiron 1720

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2010-12-16
You could try reinstalling Grub from the live CD.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20from%20LiveCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20from%20LiveCD)

Scroll down to the "reinstalling from live cd" section.
Method 1 has always worked for me.

---

### Post by cynicl12000 on 2010-12-17
Thank you very much cottfcfan!  That has at least gotten me to some form of login screen :).  

There are apparently still issues with the file system, as I still do not boot to the UI, but it's a great start.

Thanks for your help, both of you.

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2010-12-17
Your welcome.
Now you've got that far try running a file system check.
Alt f2 then "sudo touch /forcefsck" and reboot.
I know you've run it already but you never know.

---

### Post by cynicl12000 on 2011-01-06
Unfortunately, I just could not get it up and running again in an acceptible time frame.  I ended up weighing the time investment in fixing it and learning vs having a functional computer with a UI that I had to redo some settings on and went with the latter.

Thanks again for all of your help, though.  I'm sure that others will benefit from it, as well.

---

