---
title: "10.10 cannot detect settings, screen, graphics plus encryption issues"
date: 2012-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BardGreece on 2012-05-30
Hello all,

First of all sorry for a probably long post but I would like to explain exactly what happened and what actions were taken and what is the situation now.

I use ubuntu 10.10 and I am a first time linux user.

Here is the action history (not knowing if every action is relevant to the problem)

1) Trying to fix connection with my iphone I removed libimobiledevice1 package and I installed libimobiledevice2 package obeying to every recommendation of synaptic.

2) I decide to burn ubuntu 12.04 to a CD so that I can give it a try

3) I reboot and run ubuntu 12.04 from the CD using the "Try Ubuntu " option. 

4) After reviewing 12.04 I reboot and OhOh there was the message ""Ubuntu cannot detect input settings, graphic cards blabla"

5) I try the option continue with low resolution result:nothing

6) I try the option log-in to terminal, there I am able to connect I remove libimobiledevice2 (sudo apt-get remove libimobiledevice2) and I reinstall 1 and reboot

7)No result, I enter again to terminal and I reinstall the fglrx and the ati drivers reboot

    8 ) Nothing. Now my efforts are going to save my data I am trying from the 12.04 live cd to access my data. I have two disks. In the first disk I have my home folder encrypted and in the second I have the same files copied (I use it as a backup). None of the two disks I can mount and view their data (message says I do not have access)

9) I read everything that google can give me but no help

10) I come to the forum for help

So guys if anyone can help me to either restore my 10.10 or upgrade to 12.04 and safely have my data I would be more than thankful. I remind I have terminal access and live cd access.

Thanks in advance,
BG

---

### Post by BardGreece on 2012-06-01
SOLVED 

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop did the trick


As for how I can access the second HDD with my encrypted data for this I couln'd find a solution

---

