---
title: "10.10 Menu button and Backlight problem"
date: 2010-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-09
I need to add a program to the menu, I added the command exactly as I run it in the terminal, and for some strange reason, it does not work. The splash screen of the software shows up and then it just disappears, no errors or warnings. However if I run the exact same command on the terminal, things seem to work just fine. It also does not work if i press <Al+F2> and enter the command. I tried running with "gksudo" and "sudo", no use. 

When The charger is not connected to the laptop, and I start the machine in that state, the backlight is dim (irrespective of my backlight settings), and then even when i connect the carger, it stays dim. Logging off and logging in again does not help, system has to be restarted with the charger connected to get the bright screen. However, once started if I disconnect the charger now, the screen stays bright and things are fine.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-11-09
What is this command?  Usually only very simple command line entries work in the menus, such as the name of a program's executable file (eg **firefox** will start the web-browser).

If the command is more complicated, you may need to write a simple bash shell script, make it executable and then point to that in the menu.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-09
This is the command.
```
/usr/local/MATLAB/bin/matlab
```

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-11-10
Is **/usr/local/MATLAB/bin** in your PATH?  If not that may be why the command does not work.  Normally **/usr/local/bin**, and **/usr/local/sbin** are but not /usr/local/MATLAB/bin, unless you have added that path, or the installation does it.

Check yours with "echo $PATH" in terminal. Mind you, if it is not in the PATH, I would not expect the command to work in the terminal either.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-10
It wasn't in the path, and I added it. But shouldn't it run if I am giving the full path of the executable?? I replaced the full path by simply the command "matlab" after adding the folder to path and it works from the menu **only if I select the option run in terminal**, but this doesn't solve the problem at all. It opens a terminal and if I accidentally close it the whole session is doom. If I change the menu entry to just run the application, then the same situation, it shows the matlab splash screen and disappears.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-12
No help on this?

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-21
Anyone on the menu issue??? This thing is really bugging me....

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-11-21
[QUOTE=kniwor]...and it works from the menu **only if I select the option run in terminal**, but this doesn't solve the problem at all. It opens a terminal and if I accidentally close it the whole session is doom. ...[/QUOTE]

Does it work any differently if you append the character, &, to your command in the menu when you have run in terminal as the option?

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-21
> **QLee said:**
> Does it work any differently if you append the character, &, to your command in the menu when you have run in terminal as the option?

Appending "&" and selecting "Application in Terminal" opens the terminal for a moment and disappear, MATLAB does not run however. (Works without the & but terminal has to be open at all times, as mentioned before.)

Appending & and not selecting the terminal option causes no change. Just the spalsh screen and nothing else.

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-11-21
I don't use matlab so I probably can't be of any help to you, since I can't test anything. Appending a space and & to the end of a command is a way to background a command, so, since you mentioned closing the terminal quit the command, I thought it worth a try. Sorry, I don't have any further ideas, someone who uses matlab is likely to show up eventually with a definitive answer.

Edit: Suggest you start a new thread with matlab in the subject, more likely to attract wanted suggestions and interest, the current subject might be ignored from the users who could most help with this issue.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-22
Thanks for the inputs. I found the solution to the problem. The correct command to add is "matlab -desktop" which tells matlab no terminal is available.

---

