---
title: "Script for adding printers"
date: 2010-06-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wynand2020 on 2010-06-28
Hi Guys, i'm new to this so please bear with me!

I'm trying to write a script that will add multiple printers in CUPS, ( OS=Ubuntu 10.04) but when I run the script it doesnt want to add the variables (which will be the IP's and Printer Names). Im thinking my variables are empty! 

Heres the script:

sed -n 'N;s/\n/ /p' sapsvr009.q | while read line
do
PNAME= echo $line | cut -d ':' -f1
PIP= echo $line | awk '{print $3}' | cut -d ',' -f1
echo $PNAME $PIP
echo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -p $PNAME -E -D Printer-Description -L Location -v lpd://$PIP/$PNAME -m textonly.ppd 

done

it reads the file sapsvr009.q perfectly but then it doesnt use that list generated by sapsvr009.q to add the printers
Im thinking there could be a problem with my variables ($PNAME and &PIP)

---

### Post by justleen on 2010-06-28
Missed two things:
First, dont use spaces in bash when declaring variables, it won;t pick them up.
Second, when defining a var with the output of a command, make surebash knows you want to execute echo, instead of assigning "echo" to the var.
```

var=echo test  # results in $var == "echo"
var=`echo test`  # results in $var == "test"
var=$(echo test) # results in $var == "test" same as above, different syntax

``````

sed -n 'N;s/\n/ /p' sapsvr009.q | while read line
do
PNAME=$(echo $line | cut -d ':' -f1)
PIP=$(echo $line | awk '{print $3}' | cut -d ',' -f1)
echo $PNAME $PIP
echo /usr/sbin/lpadmin -p $PNAME -E -D Printer-Description -L Location -v lpd://$PIP/$PNAME -m textonly.ppd 

done


```

---

### Post by wynand2020 on 2010-06-28
thanks for the help but it seems as if the scripts has a problem with the brackets you put in

---

### Post by justleen on 2010-06-28
shouldn't, really.
Something like this should work just fine:
```

#!/bin/bash
cat x.csv | while read line; do
  F1=$(echo $line| cut -d ',' -f1)
  F2=$(echo $line| awk -F ',' '{print $2}')

  echo $F1  $F2
done

```

show me one line of the input file please, so I can check your version.

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-06-28
maybe a silly question, but isn't it easier to have cups broadcast the printers?
if you do not want everybody to be able to access the printers (or some particular printer(S)) you could always set up acl in cups as well.

---

### Post by wynand2020 on 2010-06-28
yes its working thanks a lot justleen

---

