---
title: "12.04 can't change/forgets user preferences.."
date: 2012-07-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by matiic on 2012-07-07
Hi,

I'm having some troubles in Ubuntu 12.04. For some odd reason I can't change some user settings or Ubuntu just forgets what options I chose. These are the things I've noticed so far:
[LIST]
[*]I can't add apps to the Unity sidebar. When I drag them in / remove them, Ubuntu forgets the next time I log in and it's reset to the default apps.
[*]I can't change the settings for the clock. It just does nothing when I try to display date and switch to 24 hour time.
[*]I can't change my desktop background, it doesn't do anything when I click another background.
[/LIST]
Does anybody know what the problem is, or has had the same problem?

---

### Post by matiic on 2012-07-09
bump

---

### Post by gertvdijk on 2012-07-09
Can you tell a little bit more about your current setup? Is this a new fresh install or an upgrade of an earlier release? When did the issue occur and was is present from the day you started to use 12.04? Did you perform all the system updates available?

With all the information now present, my gut feeling says your filesystem permissions might be wrong. So it can read your settings, but not write them. Did you copy/move/import your home directory after a migration or new install?

---

### Post by Easy Limits on 2012-07-09
Are you logging in on the Guest account?

---

### Post by matiic on 2012-07-13
@ gertvdijk - the Ubuntu installation in question was a completely new install. I was trying to dual boot with Windows, and I kept having loads and loads of problems, no idea what they were. But finally, my installation seems to have worked. My desktop computer which also uses 12.04 doesn't have this problem. I didn't notice it at first one my laptop, but I'm not sure if it's just that I didn't notice or if it's a new problem. I haven't had the 12.04 installation in question installed for very long, maybe 1 - 2 months. I haven't had the chance to connect the laptop to the Internet in order to update yet, unfortunately.

I will look and see if permissions are the problem. Before I do, where do you think I need to look? E.g. what may have wrong permissions that I should look at? Since it was a completely new installation, I didn't bring over any of my old files.

@ Easy Limits - Nope, this is all on my user account. I tried using another account, with the same problem.

---

### Post by matiic on 2012-07-21
bump

---

