---
title: "./compile ERRORS =APP"
date: 2007-07-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ajmctaggart on 2007-07-31
I am getting this error when I try a ./configure

configure: error: --enable-application=APP is required

Anyone know what this means, or what I'm missing?


thanks,
ajm

---

### Post by testube_babies on 2007-07-31
What are you trying to compile?  It looks like it needs extra arguments in order to configure correctly.

---

### Post by ajmctaggart on 2007-07-31
Well, this for instance was some source code of seamonkey (just a project, I don't really see myself keeping this on my machine)...but I was hoping that I could compile Thunderbird or some Linux programs that are only for 686 machines...maybe it's not even possible...Im on a PPC (apple powerbook)  any suggestions?

thanks,
ajm

---

### Post by nitro_n2o on 2007-07-31
check the README file that comes with every source code tar ball. It'll guide you through the compilation process easily. If you have problems following the README file just post it here, i'm sure there are a lot of people who can help. 
My advice is if you can get a debian ".deb" would be better than source, even better if you can get whatever you want from the repositories. 

good luck

---

### Post by apetresc on 2007-08-03
The answer to your question is that you must specify which app of the Mozilla suite you are building when you run configure. To see your available options, you can check the configure script. In this case, it is:
```
   81   --enable-application=APP
   82                           Options include:
   83                             suite
   84                             browser (Firefox)
   85                             mail (Thunderbird)
   86                             minimo
   87                             composer
   88                             calendar
   89                             xulrunner
   90                             macbrowser (Camino)
   91                             standalone (use this for standalone
   92                               xpcom/xpconnect or to manually drive a build)"
```
In other words, if you want to build Thunderbird, you run
```
adrian@adrian-desktop:~/thunderbird/mozilla-thunderbird-1.5.0.12/archives/mozilla$ ./configure --enable-application=mail
```

And off you go :)

---

