---
title: "10.10 freezes after login"
date: 2011-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by velorution9 on 2011-01-28
I'm running 10.10 on my HP laptop which I've never had graphics problems with. Now it freezes on the default purple background right after I log in. I saw another thread where this was suggested and someone fixed the problem by removing compiz: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze#Problem:%20%20Freezes%20right%20after%20entering%20login%20credentials](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze#Problem:%20%20Freezes%20right%20after%20entering%20login%20credentials)
I tried that, and it's still freezing just after I log in. But it did and does still boot fine in safe mode.

The other problem is that I need compiz because I use docky, so I'd really like to find a way to make it work and still have compositing.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by mrhhug on 2011-01-28
did you have an issue with compiz when you ran the live cd? when did this start? right away after initial install? have you installed anything recently? please give more details

---

### Post by velorution9 on 2011-01-29
I started having the problem Thursday, and I think there had been some package updates that morning, but I don't remember which ones and I can't go back and look since it won't start.  I've never had problems with compiz before.

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-01-29
> **velorution9 said:**
> I started having the problem Thursday, and I think there had been some package updates that morning, but I don't remember which ones and I can't go back and look since it won't start.  I've never had problems with compiz before.
that would be the kernel update, try login using one of the old kernels if you still have them installed.

---

### Post by mrhhug on 2011-01-29
can you still get to a command line? if its only compiz thats giving you issues you should still be able to hit ctrl+alt+F1 and be promted for a logon and password.

if you can do that /var/log/apt/term.log is where your update log is located.

Since you already removed compiz, my next attempt (provided you can log in at all) would be to reconfigure graphics like :
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by velorution9 on 2011-01-29
The freeze happens AFTER I enter my login password, so logging in is not a problem, but ctrl+alt+f1 does not do anything (or any other keystroke) once it has frozen.

I can get to the command line though, because I can boot in safe mode and recovery mode. I also tried booting into an older kernel like gandaran suggested, and that works. I tried running ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` while I was in the old kernel version (it didn't output anything, I don't know if it's supposed to), and when I tried rebooting and going into the new kernel, it still froze.

I also reinstalled compiz when I logged back in to the old kernel. So basically, I can get it working just fine in the older kernel, so I guess the new kernel update broke something. But what does that mean for me for future updates?

---

### Post by n125 on 2011-01-29
I have the exact same problem and symptoms occurring after that kernel update with my Asus 1005HA Eee PC. It was recommended to me to upgrade my video driver, but that didn't work. Here is my thread on the issue: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1676704](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1676704)

If you find the solution, please share!

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-01-30
velorution9
> But what does that mean for me for future updates?
try reinstalling the new kernel (use synaptic for that) just to rule out any broken update file or wait till another kernel update is released and if the laptop still has problems with any new kernel then you should look at updating the laptop bios, I had to do it on my toshiba netbook to fix the same freezing issue with new kernels.
hope this helps.

---

### Post by velorution9 on 2011-02-04
Ok... while booted in the old kernel, I re-installed the newest kernel version. This fixed the problem and I can now boot into the new kernel with no problems. 

Thanks for your help!

---

