---
title: "10.04 Can't share folders.  at all.  between ubuntu machines or vista"
date: 2011-06-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jereme2147 on 2011-06-15
I have samba and file sharing enabled.  Everytime I search, I come up with 25 different solutions and none seem to work.  I can't share drives between ubuntu computers or vista and ubuntu. I'm just this side of giving up, this seems as if it shouldn't be so difficult.

---

### Post by underdog512 on 2011-06-15
This article lists many different methods of sharing files on Ubuntu.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/internet/C/networking-shares.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/internet/C/networking-shares.html)

You are probably looking for the instruction in the "Sharing folders via Nautilus" section around the middle of the page.

You may want to look into doing this with Ubuntu One or even [Dropbox]("https://www.dropbox.com/").  This allows your files to be shared with any computer on the planet (if want them to be).

---

### Post by AeroZak on 2011-06-15
I once read the moto: "If it doesn't work the first time, reboot".

Have you tried rebooting yet?  After installing the samba service, I believe you need to exit out of your session before it will work.

How did you try to install samba?

I agree with underdog, Dropbox is definetly a great solution, it even works between your mobile device.

---

### Post by Jereme2147 on 2011-06-15
> **AeroZak said:**
> I once read the moto: "If it doesn't work the first time, reboot".

Have you tried rebooting yet?  After installing the samba service, I believe you need to exit out of your session before it will work.

How did you try to install samba?

I agree with underdog, Dropbox is definetly a great solution, it even works between your mobile device.
Yes, I rebooted after installing samba and file sharing.  I installed samba via software center. I really need direct access to my drive, it's a media center computer and I'm always re-tagging files and working on it.

---

### Post by rothux.j on 2011-06-15
You installed samba... did you configure it?
You have to configure share directories within config files...
This post might help:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202605]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202605")

---

### Post by underdog512 on 2011-06-15
> **rothux.j said:**
> You installed samba... did you configure it?
You have to configure share directories within config files...
This post might help:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202605]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=202605")


You should be able to just use Nautilus to set up the shares.  There is no need to manually edit config files anymore, unless you are doing some advanced stuff.

> To share folders using Nautilus:

Press Places &#8594; Computer to open a File Browser window.

Right click the folder you wish to share and select Sharing Options on the popup menu.

Check Share this folder in the Folder Sharing window. You may change the Share name field if you want to use a different share name.

You may receive a message which says Sharing services are not installed. If this happens, ensure that the two checkboxes in the message box are checked and press Install services. Sharing service support will then be downloaded and installed; this may take a while.

Select Allow other people to write in this folder if you wish to allow others to add, change, and remove files in this folder. If you leave this box unchecked, other people will only be able to view files in this folder. You may also fill in the Comment field.

Select Guest access (for people without a user account) if you wish to allow guest users to access your files.

Press Create share to make the shared folder available.

You may receive a message stating that Nautilus needs to add some permissions to the folder in order to share it. If this happens, press Add the permissions automatically.

Other people on the same network (LAN) as you should now be able to access the folder.

---

### Post by dozycat on 2011-06-15
follow this:

[http://www.unixmen.com/linux-distributions/4-ubuntu/1203-how-to-install-and-configure-samba-in-ubuntu-1010-maverick-meerkat-via-gui-]("http://www.unixmen.com/linux-distributions/4-ubuntu/1203-how-to-install-and-configure-samba-in-ubuntu-1010-maverick-meerkat-via-gui-")

Use the first option.

the only think you must remember is to go to administration, users, and in the user advanced allow access from the net.

And in nautilus go to the directory you are sharing in samba and share it. 

And finally don't forget to add the user to samba:

sudo smbpasswd -a <username>

---

### Post by rothux.j on 2011-06-15
I really should install an ubuntu desktop and keep up with the times xD I just use server at the moment, so I don't see anything new really.

---

### Post by dozycat on 2011-06-15
install xfce, it is very light I used in my server.

---

### Post by rothux.j on 2011-06-15
Aye, I think I probably will.

---

### Post by Jereme2147 on 2011-06-15
I will work on some of these suggestions tomorrow.  Thanks for all your help. I hope something will work out. 

I have to put it down for now.  for whatever reason, VNC quit working. So now I can't even work on it unless I remove it from the entertainment center and carry it to the garage where my spare monitor is. 

/rant 
Again thanks for the help, I'm certain I'll work it all out in the am.

---

