---
title: "(7.10) Gutsy freezes random"
date: 2008-02-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bartkl on 2008-02-02
Hi,

I've read quite a few topics about random freezes in Gutsy, I have then too. Totally random and hard freezes (no activity at all, quite certainly not even hdd but I don't have a LED to make sure).
I have some additional information concerning my case, so I thought I'd start a new thread.

 I tried installing PCLinuxOS and Debian but both failed during installation. PCLinuxOS complained about 'no space' being there on my harddisk and Debian gave me "hda: lost interrupt" errors. 
I think this is suspicious and might have to do with my freezes in Ubuntu.
Would it be my mainboard? Because I'm quite certain about my harddrive being okay. 

Windows works fine by the way and so did Fedora, but I only used that a few hours so can't guarantee anything.

I have experienced only a few freezes, they don't occur often at all. One was during a terminal session ('half GUI') so I'm certain it's not Firefox ;). I seem to remember freezes during Ubuntu 7.04 as well, but I can't guarantee it because I haven't tried it for long back then.

My system specifications:
Motherboard:  Gigabyte P35-DS3
Harddisc:       Samsung SpinPoint 500 Gb (SATA II)
CPU:              Intel 2 Duo Core 6300
Graphics:       Nvidia GeForce 8600GT
Network and audio onboard.


Does anyone know if my SATA controller is incompatible or my mainboard 'in general', etc. etc. I'm really frustrated.

Thanks a lot.

---

### Post by hormati on 2008-02-13
I have a similar system with the same mobo and an Nvidia 8400GS graphics card. I am also experiencing random freezes which do not happen that often(once every couple of days). I can't really figure out the reason. I disabled compiz and updated my nvidia driver and still the freezes happen. Based on what I've read on other threads, it could be the onboard sound card, but I can play songs and videos in AmaroK and Totem for long periods of time(5 - 6 hours) without any freezes. After that much time, I usually just give up reproducing the bug! So, basically I have no clue what causes this to happen! I am really frustrated, and have no idea what to do.

I hope someone finds a solution soon!
Amir

---

### Post by hormati on 2008-02-14
BTW, since two days ago, I've disabled powernowd and have not gotten any more freezes. This does not mean that I don't have any sort of frequency scaling. Instead of powernowd, I am using cpufrequtils which works perfectly. I am still not sure if this change has solve the problem, but i think it's worth trying.

Amir

---

