---
title: "10.04 Ext HDD booting problem"
date: 2011-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Raweed on 2011-11-18
Hey so i've been running 10.04 perfectly on a 500 GB Ext HDD (Connected via USB)
All of a sudden it just froze and when i forced a shutdown and tried to boot again (from any kernel choice inc. recovery) it comes up with the following error

```
mount: /dev/disk/by-uuid/ff1ef1d54-8dc3...... on /root
failed: Invalid argument
mount: mounting /dev on /root/dev failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting / sys/ on root/sys failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /proc on /root/proc failed: No such file or dirctory
Target filesystem doesn't have /sbin/init.
No init found. Try passing init= boot arg

BusyBox v1.10.2 (Ubuntu 1:1.13.3-1ubuntu11) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of buil-in commands.
(initramfs)
```

I am running Ubuntu on an Ext HDD and on my internal hdd ive got windows 7 (which boots fine). 

I have tried booting from a live USB/CD, going into terminal and entering 
```

sudo fdck /dev/sdb1

```

to mount it as I read this error occurs when the disk did not unmount properly. I also read after that before doing that you should unmount it first but did not understand how to do that as i am fairly new to linux.

after this did not work I tried to use slax to fix it. After burnuing 2 discs of slax (6.1.2 & 5.1.5) and one USB (6.1.2) nothing booted properly and either kept getting stuck halfway through booting or ended in a kernel-panic.

After this I plugged my Ext HDD into another computer (running windows xp) It booted fine!!!! But when i plugged it into my laptop it gave me the first error again. I thought the grub etc was all installed on my ext hdd so why is it a problem where I boot it from?

I originally installed ubuntu onto the ext HDD from my laptop and it was working fine. Windows 7 would boot if the Ext hdd wasnt plugged in. 

Anyone have any thoughts, please explain as much as possible as I am a new learner
there wasnt any important files or anything on there so I dont mind doing a fresh install but I want to know how this can be solved so I can avoid this in the future :D

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-18
From the data you give us I think you are using Ubuntu in an external drive, but you installed the dual boot, using Windows MBR.

Now you have to repair the Windows MBR, but you will run the risk of loosing the Windows installation.

---

### Post by Raweed on 2011-11-18
When installing I specifically chose the ext hdd for the bootloader
and if it was so then why does the ext HDD boot from another computer if its MBR is on my laptop (or does it not work like that) :S
also if that was the case would windows not boot if the ext hdd wasnt connected.

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-18
Try to do this, according to the community documentation:

**Copy LiveCD Files**
This is a quick and simple method of restoring a broken system's GRUB 2 files. The terminal is used for entering commands and the user must know the device name/partition of the installed system (sda1, sdb5, etc). The problem partition is located and mounted from the LiveCD. The files are then copied from the LiveCD libraries to the proper locations and MBR. It requires the least steps and fewer command line entries than the following methods. If for example Windows is on sda1 and Ubuntu is on sda5, and Windows has overwritten the MBR, then the target for grub installation will be /dev/sda5, and the MBR in the boot sector of sda will be re written for grub.

This operation will write to the MBR and restore the modules and core.img to /boot/grub. It will not replace or restore grub.cfg or fix corrupted files.

Boot the LiveCD Desktop.
Open a terminal by selecting Applications, Accessories, Terminal from the menu bar.
Determine the partition with the Ubuntu installation. The fdisk option "-l" is a lowercase "L".
sudo fdisk -l
If the user isn't sure of the partition, look for one of the appropriate size or formatting.
Running sudo blkid may provide more information to help locate the proper partition, especially if the partitions are labeled. The device/drive is designated by sdX, with X being the device designation. sda is the first device, sdb is the second, etc. For most users the MBR will be installed to sda, the first drive on their system. The partition is designated by the Y. The first partition is 1, the second is 2. Note the devices and partitions are counted differently.
Mount the partition containing the Ubuntu installation.
sudo mount /dev/sdXY /mnt
Example: sudo mount /dev/sda1 Note: If the user has a separate /boot partition, this must be mounted to /mnt/boot Note: If the user has a separate /home partition, this must be mounted to /mnt/home. Encrypted home partitions should work.
Run the grub-install command as described below. This will reinstall the GRUB 2 files on the mounted partition to the proper location and to the MBR of the designated device.
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sdX
Example: sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt /dev/sda
In Grub 1.99, introduced with Ubuntu 11.04, Natty Narwhal, a new switch is available which more clearly defines where the grub folder is placed. The command above will still work with Grub 1.99, but the following command is preferred by the developers. The target directory in the command is the command into which the grub folder will be installed. By default, and without the switch, the location is /boot/grub. In these instructions, since the Ubuntu partition is mounted on /mnt, the target would be /mnt/boot/grub.

sudo grub-install --boot-directory=/mnt/boot /dev/sdX
Example: sudo grub-install --boot-directory=/mnt/boot/ /dev/sda
Reboot
Refresh the GRUB 2 menu with sudo update-grub

This way you will use to boot grub instead of MBR

---

### Post by Raweed on 2011-11-18
> **BillyBoa said:**
> 
Example: sudo mount /dev/sda1 Note: If the user has a separate /boot partition, this must be mounted to /mnt/boot Note: If the user has a separate /home partition, this must be mounted to /mnt/home. Encrypted home partitions should work.

Ok I will give this a go but a quick question first
during installation I created the following partitions
/boot = sdb1
swaparea
/
/home = sdb7

so do I first run sudo mount /dev/sdb1
or sudo mount /dev/sdb1/mnt/boot

and what do I do with the /home?
do i run sudo mount /dev/sdb7/mnt/home

I am a little confused about this part.
Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-18
> **Raweed said:**
> 
/boot = sdb1
swaparea
/
/home = sdb7

so do I first run sudo mount /dev/sdb1
or sudo mount /dev/sdb1/mnt/boot

and what do I do with the /home?
do i run sudo mount /dev/sdb7/mnt/home



Should be something like this

```
sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt/boot &&
sudo mount /dev/sdb7 /mnt/home
```

The problem is you didn't specify where is the system installed?

The / directory.

---

### Post by Raweed on 2011-11-18
> **BillyBoa said:**
> 

The problem is you didn't specify where is the system installed?

The / directory.

My internal HDD is sda and nothing is on that
Im not sure by what you mean 'where'
when I installed it i made 4 partitions 
/boot
/
/home
swaparea
and chose the sdb for main installation and bootloader.
hope this is what your after other than that im note exactly sure.

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-18
Ok then you have to mount the / as well with the command

sudo mount /dev/[COLOR="Red"]sdXY[/COLOR] /mnt (and replace the sdXY with the name of the / partition)

---

### Post by Raweed on 2011-11-18
> **BillyBoa said:**
> Ok then you have to mount the / as well with the command

sudo mount /dev/[COLOR="Red"]sdXY[/COLOR] /mnt (and replace the sdXY with the name of the / partition)

So mount all 3?
```
sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt/boot &&
sudo mount /dev/sdb7 /mnt/home &&
sudo mount /dev/sdbX /mnt/
```
Is this correct?

X being the partition for /
I'll check that with gparted

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-18
Yes, there is no problem to mount them in a specific order, they just have to be mounted.

---

### Post by Raweed on 2011-11-18
Ok so big problems i think.
I may have messed it up
i mounted /boot successfully

(It showed my ext hdd to sdc)

but when i went to mount / i got 
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdc6 /mnt/
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdc6,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so


```

and then when I went to mount /home I got

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdc7 /mnt/home
mount: mount point /mnt/home does not exist


``` 

and when i do sudo fdisk -l for my ext hdd i get
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l


Disk /dev/sdc: 500.1 GB, 500106780160 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes

Disk identifier: 0x0000c89e
   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1   *           1          63      498688   83  Linux
Partition 1 does not end on cylinder boundary.
/dev/sdc2              63       60802   487883777    5  Extended
/dev/sdc5              63         549     3905536   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sdc6             549        2981    19529728   83  Linux
/dev/sdc7            2981       60802   464446464   83  Linux


```
Worst thing is i carried on going and isntalled grub, now when i boot from ext HDD i get the gmu grub menu with 
```
grub>_
```

waiting for me to put a command in. 
I may just do a fresh install unless you have any idea of whats going on?

---

### Post by jjex22 on 2011-11-18
Hi there, this could help with your [bad superblock]("http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/recover-bad-superblock-from-corrupted-partition/")

I'd reinstall, but then I use dd to create a system image once a week,  so it's relatively painless however if you have non backed up data /lots of special configuration, it may well be worth trying to fix?

---

### Post by Raweed on 2011-11-19
> **jjex22 said:**
> Hi there, this could help with your [bad superblock]("http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/recover-bad-superblock-from-corrupted-partition/")

I'd reinstall, but then I use dd to create a system image once a week,  so it's relatively painless however if you have non backed up data /lots of special configuration, it may well be worth trying to fix?

thank you for your reply
I think I have managed to install grub onto /boot so when i boot from the ext hdd it comes up with the boot menu
do you know how I can boot into ubuntu from there so i can do a sudo update-grub

I have tried with the following in grub
```
grub> set prefix=(hd0,1)/boot/grub
grub> set root=(hd0,1)
grub> linux /vmlinuz-2.6.32-33-generic root=/dev/sdb1ro
grub> initrd /initrd.img-2.6.32-33-generic
grub> boot
```

and i come up wit h the following error :
```
Gave up waiting for root device. Common problems:
-boot args (cat /proc/cmdline)
   -check rootdelay= (did the system wait long enough>)
   -Check root= (did the system wait for the rightdevice?)
-missing modules (cat /proc/modules; ls /dev)
ALERT! /dev/sdb1ro does not exist. Dropping to a shell!

BusyBox v1.13.3 (ubuntu 1:1.13.3-1ubuntu11) built-in shell (ash)
enter 'help' for a list of built -in commands.

(interamfs)_
```

Can you please direct me how to boot into ubuntu, and i am using sdb1 because tht is where /boot is as i am booting from an ext hdd.

---

### Post by Raweed on 2011-11-30
Got the first error again but found a quick fix
Boot a liveCD/USB 
open terminal
run the following command
```
sudo fsck.ext4 /dev/sdb1
```
replacing it with your partition information ofcourse :)
it will ask you 2 questions answer with y for both
after you return to user@pcname
shut down
reboot
it should boot with no data loss:popcorn:

---

