---
title: "Fsck died with exit status 8"
date: 2006-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Aurdal on 2006-11-23
I get this when I try to boot:
```

*Activating swap...                                                      [COLOR="Red"][fail][/COLOR]
*Checking root file system...
/dev/hda2: clean, 146286/1311552 files, 1600298/2622611 blocks
                                                                         [ ok ]
*Checking file systems...
fsck 1.39 (29-May-2006)
fsck.ext3: Unable to resolve 'UUID=62100d90-0174-4bbe-b773-47beaede9e77'
fsck died with exit status 8

```

And when I log in I get this:
[IMG]http://i106.photobucket.com/albums/m264/kaurdal/Screenshot-gnome-session.png[/IMG]

My /etc/fstab:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc                                       /proc          proc         defaults                           0  0  
# /dev/hda2
UUID=a210fb74-7065-4d62-9330-2f99b149cf6e  /              ext3         defaults,errors=remount-ro         0  1  
# /dev/hda5
UUID=62100d90-0174-4bbe-b773-47beaede9e77  /home          ext3         defaults                           0  2  
# /dev/hda3
UUID=b0290703-7b6e-4a84-a125-e4fe2cd05b93  none           swap         sw                                 0  0  
/dev/hdd                                   /media/cdrom0  udf,iso9660  user,noauto                        0  0  
/dev/hdc1                                  /media/hdc1    ntfs         nls=iso8859-1,noauto,umask=000,ro  0  0  
/dev/hda5                                  /home          ext3         defaults                           0  0  
/dev/hda3                                  /media/hda3    swap         defaults                           0  0  
/dev/hda2                                  /media/hda2    ext3         defaults                           0  0  
/dev/hda1                                  /media/hda1    ntfs         defaults                           0  0  

```

Any suggestions?

Thanks
-Kristoffer

---

### Post by DOD1951 on 2006-11-23
Have you looked at the manual for fsck? Its says 8 is "Operational Error" which isn't exactly imformative but refers to checking other areas where this issue might be explained.

---

### Post by Aurdal on 2006-11-23
> **DOD1951 said:**
> Have you looked at the manual for fsck? Its says 8 is "Operational Error" which isn't exactly imformative but refers to checking other areas where this issue might be explained.

I think I figured it out, my UUID for dev/hda5 was wrong.

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2008-01-05
Hey if anyones still listening to this thread.
I am getting the same error. How did you find out your UUID was wrong and where to you change it to make it right?

---

### Post by Elle Stone on 2008-01-08
Hi, Zorkerz,

I'm a newbie, so take what I say with a grain of salt.

I've had a couple similar errors recently. When you install Ubuntu, it automatically creates an /etc/fstab file for you, listing all drives/partitions it encounters by "UUID" which I'm guessing is a kind of "machine code identification" for each partition. It also gives little comment lines with entries like "/dev/sdd" above each entry, so you can tell which drive/partition is being referred to by the UUID. Alas the comment lines are misleading (at least for my installation) as each drive got bumped up the alphabet by the number of internal hard drives I have. So what is actually /dev/sda (first sata drive) became /dev/sdd (all my drives are sata) in the commented lines.

Everything worked fine until I rearranged my partitions (moved everything off a given parition(s), repartitoned, put back on my new partitions - be very careful doing this!). Then none of the UUIDs worked any more, because the partitioning was different. So I fixed this problem by rewriting the fstab using labels (see "man fstab" or google around for how to label a partition and how to mount by label in fstab.  I labelled all the partitions while repartitioning/formating and also during the original installation).  

You can also rewrite fstab using the actual "/dev/sda" etc (instead of the commented "/dev/sdd") in the original fstab, but apparently labels are more "robust" as the man page says, because the order of devices (a,b,c etc) can change as you add or remove devices.

Then everything worked fine until I did a little more rearranging in fstab (the original fstab generated by Ubunut is just plain messy and uninformative - works great until you change something).  Turned out I had misspelled "label".  Sigh.  Fixed that, did some more rearranging, and found I'd left "sdd" where it should have been "sda".  Sigh again.

fstab is very particular. If you can't boot, try booting from a liveCD and fixing fstab. Booting from a live cd is a time when labels on your partitions makes a confusing set of folders/drives much easier to sort out. As always, make a backup first before messing with fstab, and make sure you can retrace your steps in case "correcting" fstab only made it worse.

Hope that helps. 

Elle

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2008-01-08
Thanks alot for the response. You are right on. I deleted one of my partitions but left fstab the same. When the automatic fsck tried to run on that partition it was no longer there. All is well for me now.
elias

---

