---
title: "Unknown Monitor/Unable to set resolution at 800 x 600"
date: 2011-11-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bryan334 on 2011-11-11
When I go to 'Displays...' There are several boxes with "unknown" on them; And also when I try to set my resolution to 800 x 600 (4:3), my screen turns black and a message appears saying: "Cannot Display This Video Mode, Optimum resolution 1280 x 1024 60Hz"
(I know this resolution must work because on my previous OS, Windows 7, I could change to 800 x 600 with no problem.). 
My 'Displays..' menu shows these resolutions:
800 x 600, 960 x 540, 832 x 624, 960 x 600, 1024 x 768, 1152 x 864, 1280 x 960,      
1280 x 1024. I have no problem switching to another res other then 800 x 600, (and other then the desktop not fitting nicely on the screen on some of them).
I think this is the major problem that been causing me a lot of trouble when installing and using several PC games. Here is my X config file if it is of any help... Thanks, God bless and God speed. 

[PHP]# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 280.13  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-05.nvidia.com)  Wed Jul 27 17:18:55 PDT 2011

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
    # generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
    Option "Coolbits"    "1"
EndSection
[/PHP]

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-11-11
> **Bryan334 said:**
> When I go to 'Displays...' There are several boxes with "unknown" on them; And also when I try to set my resolution to 800 x 600 (4:3), my screen turns black and a message appears saying: "Cannot Display This Video Mode, Optimum resolution 1280 x 1024 60Hz"
........

That is your monitor being sent a signal it cannot handle, probably the correct resolution but the wrong refresh rate.

Use the Nvidia tools to adjust the refresh rate for that resolution.

---

### Post by Bryan334 on 2011-11-12
> **dcstar said:**
> That is your monitor being sent a signal it cannot handle, probably the correct resolution but the wrong refresh rate.

Use the Nvidia tools to adjust the refresh rate for that resolution.

Thanks, it was indeed the refresh rate. But how do I make it so that applications that like to open up at 800 x 600 don't automatically go to 60Hz? My 'Display..." menu's option for 800 x 600 is not set at the right refresh rate either. **Update** It was a matter of going to Xorg.conf and correcting my monitors refresh rate settings.

---

