---
title: "how to edit grub for default OS"
date: 2010-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by srikrishnan on 2010-10-25
Hi All,

I have installed Ubuntu as my second OS in my system. I want to change windows XP as my default OS. But I am little confused when I open my grub file. In that I am not able to see my "windows xp". Below is the content of my grub:

# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
#GRUB_TERMINAL=console

# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

# Uncomment if you don't want GRUB to pass "root=UUID=xxx" parameter to Linux
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true

# Uncomment to disable generation of recovery mode menu entries
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_RECOVERY="true"

# Uncomment to get a beep at grub start
#GRUB_INIT_TUNE="480 440 1"

how can I change Windows XP as my Default OS?



Anybody please help me

Thanks,
Srikrishnan

---

### Post by Dans564 on 2010-10-25
run ```
sudo apt-get install startupmanager
```
this will install a nifty gui to change grub settings.

---

### Post by makmiler on 2010-10-25
Count at Boot-startup which number is Windows in the Menu, start counting from 0, then change in /etc/default/grub the GRUB_DEFAULT=0 <- 0 with the number that you have counted for your Windows.

---

### Post by srikrishnan on 2010-10-30
Hi,

Thanks for your response.

after installed startupmanager, when I run it shows the following error:

An error occurred while loading or saving configuration information for startupmanager. Some of your configuration settings may not work properly.

"Failed to contact configuration server; some possible causes are that you need to enable TCP/IP networking for ORBit, or you have stale NFS locks due to a system crash. See [http://projects.gnome.org/gconf/](http://projects.gnome.org/gconf/) for information. (Details -  1: Failed to get connection to session: Did not receive a reply. Possible causes include: the remote application did not send a reply, the message bus security policy blocked the reply, the reply timeout expired, or the network connection was broken.)"

Also in the terminal window the following lines are generated by startupmanager:

Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-25-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-25-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-23-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-23-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-21-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-21-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Microsoft Windows XP Professional on /dev/sda1
done
Grub2 detected
Usplash not detected
Splashy not detected
 
Can anybody help to solve the above problem?

Thanks,
Srikrishnan

---

### Post by Verbeck on 2010-10-30
:-ktry changing 
GRUB_DEFAULT=**0** to GRUB_DEFAULT=**9** in /etc/default/grub
then run [B]sudo update-grub
[/B]

---

