---
title: "11.04 - panic occurred, switching back to text"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by davidstoll on 2011-05-01
panic occurred, switching back to text

That is the error I get when trying to boot to 11.04.

I tried Ubuntu, Lubuntu and Mythbuntu.  All 11.04 32bit.

It comes up with the initial "do you want to try or install" menu, but I can't get to any gui after that.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Kejlsn on 2011-05-03
I have the exact same problem!

I tried to upgrade from 10.10 and it all went fine. When I restarted the computer to boot up the new 11.04 I received this message too.

So I downloaded a fresh 11.04 CD and tried to boot it up for installation, but got the same message again.

Nothing happens, I can only reboot the computer again.

Which part of my system is important to mention to find a solution for the problem?

---

### Post by meman0 on 2011-05-08
Same problem.
Apparently, the problem occurred because of an update. (without any update, no problem)
So I reinstall ubuntu 11.04 without any update.
[davidstoll]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=605103") and [Kejlsn]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=877768"), look in the log file viewer in "kern.log" at the end.
Can you paste last lines of this log for fine a solution ?
(sorry for my english)

---

### Post by davidstoll on 2011-05-08
Thanks for the help, but I guess I'm not sure how to do that.  The live disk never finishes booting to a desktop or prompt, so I'm not really sure how to get a log file.  I don't think it's on any of the HDD's because I'm using a live disk...?



> **meman0 said:**
> Same problem.
Apparently, the problem occurred because of an update. (without any update, no problem)
So I reinstall ubuntu 11.04 without any update.
[davidstoll]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=605103") and [Kejlsn]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=877768"), look in the log file viewer in "kern.log" at the end.
Can you paste last lines of this log for fine a solution ?
(sorry for my english)

---

### Post by davidstoll on 2011-05-12
Solution, keep rebooting until you don't get the "panic occurred" issue.  This may take 5 or more reboots.  It may also help to try a different CD/DVD ROM drive...internal or even USB/FireWire.

Pain in the butt, but it works.

---

### Post by Rivenspeak on 2011-05-27
I had this problem when trying to boot laptop.  Plugged into an ethernet port and it booted fine.  Not sure why, maybe a problem related to integrated wireless card.

---

