---
title: "10.04 not working, help?"
date: 2012-01-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nuncia on 2012-01-16
Ive recently wiped a computer (intel 4, previously Windows XP black i think, basically an old school computer) of its OS and was installing Ubuntu onto it. I tried the 11.04 64bit download on the ubuntu site, but i kept getting an error (does not support 64bit) so I checked around and a ton of people had this. So I tried the 32bit DL for 11.04 and the computer took it grudgingly.... then I opened firefox and the whole thing died. Ubuntu would not open up. I tried reinstalling, but it just kept freezing.

So I tried 10.04 32bit (I have it on my laptop right now, and I love it) and burnt the iso file onto the disk with the proper formatting and all that, put it in the dead computer, and I get the Ubuntu loading screen.... but thats as far as we go. It just stalls after a moment, and then freezes there until I turn it off. Ive tried to redo the disks, tried thumbdrive start up disks, I would have tried floppies too if I had a drive for them on this laptop. 

(I had also tried to reinstall the Windows XP SP2 but I only had the  'trial' version and found out after that Microsoft had discontinued its  services towards it after 7 and all the other updates had come out....)

So my question is, has anyone else come across this problem? How did you fix it? Any alternative solutions?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2012-01-16
Try L/Xubuntu 11.10.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-01-16
What are the specs of the machine?  What graphic card does it have?  How much ram?

As TeoBigusGeekus says, Xubuntu or Lubuntu may be a much better choice for an old XP computer.

---

