---
title: "Ubuntu Studio 8.04.1 in Virtualbox"
date: 2008-08-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-08-26
VirtualBox 1.6.4 Guest Additions installation

Please install the build and header files for your current Linux kernel.
The current kernel version is 2.6.24-19-rt

Problems were found which would prevent the Guest Additions from installing.
Please correct these problems and try again.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
I received this error while trying to install the guest Additions to Ubuntu Studio 8.04.1 in Virtualbox.

I googled the error message but it seems to me that no one has had this problem so far.

I believe the Kernel is up-to-date. Maybe I need an older kernel.

PS: I am trying to increase the resolution. So far, my max is 800*600.
My native res is 1280*800.

I already tried to reconfigure xserver-xorg, but unlike my desktop, in virtual box, it wont let me choose advanced settings like gfx-card driver, resolution, etc, etc.


EDIT**

THIS IS MY OUTPUT FROM /etc/X11/xorg.conf in case anyone is wondering....

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"altwin:meta_win"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


Where is resolution??
Help please...

Thanks - CC7

---

### Post by A117 on 2008-08-26
maybe i had same problem B4. don't remember.
i recommend you to find related packages to install.

---

### Post by nickgaydos on 2008-08-26
Weird...

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-09-01
Bump

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2008-09-09
Bump

---

