---
title: "[SOLVED] Randomly crashes"
date: 2008-12-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tak11 on 2008-12-29
Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex, 2.6.27-11-generic

I'm not sure what error log to paste, 

Randomly a lot of times after switching desktops, the computer will crash, only sound will work, and I have to force shut down. 

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by braddcadd on 2008-12-29
Start with /var/log/Xorg.0.log (anything with an (EE) is a real error)

---

### Post by Tak11 on 2009-01-02
> **braddcadd said:**
> Start with /var/log/Xorg.0.log (anything with an (EE) is a real error)

nope, nothing is marked with EE, I think it might have something to do with compiz desktop switches,

---

### Post by braddcadd on 2009-01-03
system->admin->system_log are a bunch of good logs all in one place

You can always turn compiz off (System->Preferences->Appearance->Visual Effects->None   will do that i think).

However, most random freezes/crashed like that are due to hardware configuration, especially video drivers.  What video driver do you have? (type lspci in a terminal to find out)

---

### Post by Tak11 on 2009-01-03
> **braddcadd said:**
> system->admin->system_log are a bunch of good logs all in one place
Thanks, that is good to know xD

> **braddcadd said:**
> You can always turn compiz off (System->Preferences->Appearance->Visual Effects->None   will do that i think).
and nah, I need my compiz =( I'll resort to that last.

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 8800M GTS (rev a2)
 <= graphics card

---

### Post by Seks on 2009-01-03
Wild guess... do you have AWN running and with a bunch of plugins? I would have those kinds of freezes when I did...

---

### Post by braddcadd on 2009-01-03
OK, nVidia is what we are looking for.  Now we can configure it.  First let's do a little more diagnostics:
(1) post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf
(2) also post the results of this command "lsmod | grep nvidia"

Once we have this info we may know if we need to install (a) repository drivers, (b) envy, or (c) something uglier.  Take a look at this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6253849&postcount=4](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6253849&postcount=4)

---

### Post by Tak11 on 2009-01-03
tak@Lockpick:~$ lsmod | grep nvidia
nvidia               6909268  38 
i2c_core               31892  1 nvidia
agpgart                42184  2 nvidia,intel_agp

_______________________________________________________________________-
xorg.conf

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Seiko"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "VIZ VO47LFHDTV20A"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 77.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800M GTS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800M GTS"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1440+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Tak11 on 2009-01-03
> **Seks said:**
> Wild guess... do you have AWN running and with a bunch of plugins? I would have those kinds of freezes when I did...

nah I'm afraid not,

---

### Post by tgrimley on 2009-01-04
> **Tak11 said:**
> Thanks, that is good to know xD


and nah, I need my compiz =( I'll resort to that last.

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 8800M GTS (rev a2)
 <= graphics card

You should do it to determine the cause of the problem.  It sounds like the [unresolved bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/compiz/+bug/176589") that I had.  I wish I could use compositing again.

---

### Post by braddcadd on 2009-01-04
Is anything listed in System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers ?

---

### Post by Tak11 on 2009-01-05
nvidia accellerated graphics drivers version 177

---

### Post by Tak11 on 2009-01-05
Thanks =) that looks exactly whats happening,

---

