---
title: "12.04 LTS no edit startup"
date: 2012-07-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dgameman1 on 2012-07-10
I remember beforehand, I was able to edit what occurs during startup on my computer

I have no way of getting to that now.
I run Gnome 3
I used to go to the activities bar on the top left and type in startup and there used to be something there.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by Carpentr on 2012-07-10
If you click the 'Dash Home' button on the top of the Unity sidebar (it is the Ubuntu symbol) and then type in 'Startup Applications,' you should be able to configure which programs launch at startup. 

Good luck!

---

### Post by Dgameman1 on 2012-07-11
> **Carpentr said:**
> If you click the 'Dash Home' button on the top of the Unity sidebar (it is the Ubuntu symbol) and then type in 'Startup Applications,' you should be able to configure which programs launch at startup. 

Good luck!

Not there.
I know where it is, I used to have it. I just reformatted and it's not there anymore =/

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-07-11
In a terminal

```
gnome-session-properties
```

---

### Post by Dgameman1 on 2012-07-11
> **carl4926 said:**
> In a terminal

```
gnome-session-properties
```

I ******* love you!
Is there anywhere to get it back in my actives bar tho?

---

### Post by carl4926 on 2012-07-11
> **Dgameman1 said:**
> I ******* love you!
Is there anywhere to get it back in my actives bar tho?

No, not that I know of.
But the gnome desktop is changing rapidly and there are lots of extensions - I just don't really use any.
I think Clem over at Mint has build many in to give the old user experience back

---

