---
title: "10.04 panel layout on Netbook 10.10"
date: 2011-03-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gen Vert on 2011-03-25
I hate the panel layout of the netbook version 10.10. Cannot find anything, especially some way of changing the layout.

How do i get to the layout of 10.04, which I am still getting used to on my desktop? 

Do I have to start over and load 10.04 instead of the netbook edition? 

Will it work on an Acer Aspire? D255E?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-03-26
> **Gen Vert said:**
> I hate the panel layout of the netbook version 10.10. Cannot find anything, especially some way of changing the layout.

How do i get to the layout of 10.04, which I am still getting used to on my desktop? 

Do I have to start over and load 10.04 instead of the netbook edition? 

Will it work on an Acer Aspire? D255E?

This is the wrong place to ask your question, it should have been in General Help, but the 10.10 version of the UNE is broken on some netbooks and it won't be fixed, as there is a new version coming out at the end of April. I'd suggest you re-install the 10.04 version.

---

### Post by Gen Vert on 2011-03-26
Thanks for the info. However, given the news below, would it be better to wait for the next release?

 				 				**Re: Ubuntu netbook remix** 			
 			 			 		   		 		 		The netbook remix is going away with the next release.

"Ubuntu Netbook Edition folded into Ubuntu for next release"
[http://blog.canonical.com/?p=528](http://blog.canonical.com/?p=528)

---

### Post by Iowan on 2011-03-26
> **cariboo907 said:**
> This is the wrong place to ask your question, it should have been in General Help...
Moved to General Help.
(also lets an old thread go back to sleep) ;)

---

### Post by morrie on 2011-04-23
:(  I too hate the panel layout.  Last time I saw this was on a botched install of the netbook remix (I thought 10.10).  I fixed the install (or reinstalled) and finally got normal menus.

So my question is: **what is up with this layout ? **How can you just spring it on us, with no introduction.  (If I wanted KDE's ***weird*** layout, I would have installed KDE.) I see it on the demo screens on Ubuntu.com, but if it's as bad as this, I think more people would be complaining.  Maybe this new layout is better for beginners, but existing Ubuntu users IMHO will hate the lack of control.  Why can't we have the option to go back to regular old Gnome?

"Broken." That's all we have to work with?  Are you saying that this panel layout is a mistake?  This is Ubuntu: "Broken" means let's get it fixed.  We are a community of geniuses for crying out loud. How do we fix this?

In the meanitme, I am stuck with a customer who wants to try Ubuntu, but doesn't want to wait 5 more days for the new release.  As is I think I will recommend Windows because this panel thingy is ridiculously cumbersome (and slow).  It might be able to work, but you need to tell people how to go back to "classic" and at least give people more choice and customization. (what about Skype or custom shortcuts on the "panel".  IS that what it's called? "Panel?"  I haven't been properly introduced.  (And I resent things being dumped on me).:confused:

I feel I should tell the community that I am using a EEE PC 1000HE.

---

### Post by user333 on 2011-04-23
Umm... you do have the option to go back to gnome. To go back to classic, you need to select it before you log in.

What you are describing is called Unity, the new environment that Ubuntu is now using. It's not gnome panel at all, and there is nothing wrong. And netbook edition is going away in 11.04 because everything will use this new interface by 11.10.

---

