---
title: "11.04 GUI Problems, Zombie Processes"
date: 2011-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Uruz on 2011-05-16
Since upgrading to 11.04 I have experienced severe GUI problems. Opening menus, submenus and other, similar things (alt text, *et cetera*) often causes everything on my screen to flicker out for 3-10 seconds, after which my window layering and desktop view-screen placement are messed up. (whatever window was furthest up is pushed back and I'm forced back to desktop 1, and the windows move accordingly). This renders many programs (OpenOffice, Chrome, Inkscape, things run in Wine, *et cetera*) completely unusable. This appears to be unity and such "resetting," because the side-pane pops out again (and sometimes get stuck) whenever this happens.

Additionally (and possibly related) desktopcouche-se and zeitgeist-datah are zombies. I don't know if these are affecting Unity, or what, but it's probably not a good thing. 

If anyone knows anything that may be helpful, I am open to suggestions.

Thanks for everything,
Uruz

*Post Scriptum:*
I am aware that the zombie program bugs have been reported, but no amount of search has shown me any kind of lead to a fix.

*Post Post Scriptum:*
Additionally, locking my screen often causes a "loop" that looks similar to the screensaver starting, stopping and restarting in about 2 second intervals. This is extremely taxing on my CPU. This loop continues indefinitely until I enter my password. Leaving it until my screen shuts off causes the screensaver to disappear all together, leaving my desktop. My mouse moves about freely, but can not click. Typing in my password (though, no box is visible) and pressing enter solves this.

---

### Post by Uruz on 2011-05-16
bump?

---

### Post by DeanMarshall on 2011-05-17
We are experiencing mouse issues when we first log in.  Mouse kind of dies after three or four seconds of doing nothing. Shaking it achieves nothing, but a small bang on the desk brings it back. Not just annoying though - bordering on unusable.

I noticed the zombie process and thanks to a small scriptlet I found on commandlinefu I am able to kill the zombie process. Upon doing so - everything jumps back to life as it should.

```

kill -HUP `ps -A -ostat,ppid,pid,cmd | grep -e '^[Zz]' | awk '{print $2}'`

```That could probably be saved as a shell script and run a minute or so after each reboot - but I assume an update any day now will fix the underlying issue - so for now we are happy doing this manually.

Hope the info helps others.

Dean
[http://www.deanmarshall.co.uk/](http://www.deanmarshall.co.uk/)

---

### Post by Uruz on 2011-05-17
> **DeanMarshall said:**
> We are experiencing mouse issues when we first log in.  Mouse kind of dies after three or four seconds of doing nothing. Shaking it achieves nothing, but a small bang on the desk brings it back. Not just annoying though - bordering on unusable.

I noticed the zombie process and thanks to a small scriptlet I found on commandlinefu I am able to kill the zombie process. Upon doing so - everything jumps back to life as it should.

```

kill -HUP `ps -A -ostat,ppid,pid,cmd | grep -e '^[Zz]' | awk '{print $2}'`

```That could probably be saved as a shell script and run a minute or so after each reboot - but I assume an update any day now will fix the underlying issue - so for now we are happy doing this manually.

Hope the info helps others.

Dean
[http://www.deanmarshall.co.uk/](http://www.deanmarshall.co.uk/)

Thank you for your input.

This removed the zombie processes, but they did not restart (all of the zeitgeist process, not just the zombie, are gone). I saw no change in my other problems, so perhaps they are unrelated.

---

### Post by jmort253 on 2012-08-08
When I run the referenced command:

[PHP]
kill -HUP `ps -A -ostat,ppid,pid,cmd | grep -e '^[Zz]' | awk '{print $2}'`
[/PHP]

I get the following output:

[PHP]
kill: usage: kill [-s sigspec | -n signum | -sigspec] pid | jobspec ... or kill -l [sigspec]
[/PHP]


Is there a certain version of "kill" that I need for this to work?  Ubuntu doesn't seem to recognize the -HUP flags.

I'm hoping this will solve the issue with my keyboard freaking out and creating ssssssssssssssssssssss's all across my screen while I'm typing.

Thank you,
James

---

