---
title: "10.04 Synaptics Multitouch (Dell Mini 9)"
date: 2010-05-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joshruehlig on 2010-05-20
Well i seem to have messed up my automatic multitouch somehow.
I have a dell mini 9 and was using the script below to enable multitouch and two finger right click. The script was chmod +x'd and put under startup applications, (This was all working perfectly!) Then to test some stuff out I went under mouse properties and clicked the side scroll on instead of multitouch.

Before I started running the script side scroll was enabled and two-finger was greyed out. (After fresh install)

Before I messed with it two-finger was selected but still greyed out.

Now no matter what I do I can't re-enable multitouch. I never changed the startup script, I've tried adding wait 5/10 before and after #!/bin/bash and it never has two-finger scroll enabled.
(But two/finger right click does work when the script is under startup applications)

Now if I run the script on my own, no matter if the mouse settings say no scroll/side scroll I get multitouch (and right click if it wasn't already enabled). I really dont want to have to run a script on my own every time I start my computer...

```
#!/bin/bash
xinput set-int-prop 'SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad' "Synaptics Two-Finger Pressure" 32 4
xinput set-int-prop 'SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad' "Synaptics Two-Finger Width" 32 7
xinput set-int-prop 'SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad' "Synaptics Two-Finger Scrolling" 8 1 1
xinput set-int-prop 'SynPS/2 Synaptics TouchPad' "Synaptics Jumpy Cursor Threshold" 32 250
```

Thanks
This is where I got the code from [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1419833](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1419833)

_______________________

I just noticed that if I log out and log in my multitouch is now there, but if come strait from boot it still isnt enabled.

---

### Post by joshruehlig on 2010-05-20
I might just reinstall, it just took me so much effort to get by XBMC compilled with the broadcom crystal. Can I just move the .xbmc folder along to the new install? I'd probably need to build the drivers too...

---

### Post by nmaster on 2010-08-28
i realize that this is a pretty old thread, but why would you add "wait 5/10"?  you want to use "sleep 5" not "wait 5"

---

