---
title: "VGA not support shown on monitor after login with xfce session"
date: 2010-03-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by varklore on 2010-03-13
Hi, I'm still new to Ubuntu and would like to ask for help.

I've recently changed my monitor, when I used it initially, it goes well.

The thing is, I (stupidly) changed the screen resolution from the one working with the old monitor into higher one to test my monitor capability (the new monitor was supposed to work on 1680x1050, while the screen resolution was initially 1280x900, tried it with 1400x... and boom!).
And then "VGA not support" was shown on the monitor when I logged into my xfce session.
I've tried rebooting the system and was once having looping login thingie (it's fixed now, though), but the "VGA not support" is still shown in the monitor.

I've tried dpkg-configure xserver-xorg but no result.
I've tried adding xrandr to /etc/gdm/Init/Default that I read from other thread in this forum but still no result.
I've tried fiddling xorg.conf with suggestion from other threads with no result too.
Some links tell me to delete some nonexistent file (monitor.xml or display.xml)

I've managed to enter Ubuntu with low graphical resolution mode by purposedly driving xorg.conf crazy by typing some wrong codes, otherwise with my autologin enabled, I would just enter a blue screen with "VGA not support" on screen.

I can still enter terminal login using CTRL+ALT+F1, even with "VGA not support" on screen. 

In my current low graphical mode, it displays 1024x768 resolution normally (with 0 refresh rate and right part of the desktop slightly cut-off).

My new monitor is a 21" LCD monitor : 

Advance V2120

and my graphic card generated by lspc | grep VGA is

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

[LEFT]I'm using Ubuntu 9.10 (Karmic)
[/LEFT]

When looping login thingie happens, I can enter gdm with my monitor displaying things normally, I can even enter xterm normally.

Can anyone help me fix this?

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-03-13
Ubuntu 9.10 does not even have an xorg.conf file by default, so if it is broken, you might try renaming (mv command) xorg.conf to something else to temporarily get it out of the way (use sudo to do that as root).

I have somewhat similar mobile graphics on my laptop:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)

If you can get into X or an xterm, what is the output of **xrandr**?  After you paste it in a message, highlight it and click the # symbol in message window to wrap it with code tags.

To temporarily test modes, use **cvt 1680 1050** or **gtf 1680 1050 60** to find a modeline for that mode.  Then use xrandr to test that mode.  This is an example of commands I use in a script to change the VGA of my laptop for external 1080p HDTV (not showing the command to disable laptop display).  Substitute your modeline for this one and that (1680x1050_60.00) mode for the other commands:

xrandr --newmode "1920x1080_60.00"  148.50  1920 2008 2052 2200  1080 1084 1089 1125 +hsync +vsync
xrandr --addmode VGA1 1920x1080_60.00
xrandr --output VGA1 --mode 1920x1080_60.00

If you mess up or want to try different modeline for same mode, log out of X and log back in.  Once you find something that works, that is half the battle.  Unfortunately I do not know how to make modes permanent (unfamiliar with xorg.conf), and not sure if any other settings are different or in different locations, because you are using xfce instead of gnome.  That may be why some posts you are trying to follow do not work (different window manager).

---

### Post by varklore on 2010-03-13
Thanks for the reply.
The xorg.conf might have been left when I updated from 9.04 to 9.10 (from what I read from other threads).
Here's the output for xrandr when I logged into xterm:

```
Screen 0: minimum 320x200, current 1280x960, maximum 4096x4096
VGA1 connected 1280x960 +0+0 (normal left inverted right x axis y axis) 32mm x 86 mm

      1600x1024    60.2
      1280x1024    60.0
      1440x900      59.9
      1280x960      60.0*
      1360x768      59.7    59.8
      1152x864      70.0    60.0 
      1280x768      59.9
      1024x768      75.1    75.0   70.1   60.0 
      832x624        74.6     
      800x600        72.2    75.0   60.3   56.2 
      640x480        72.8    75.0   72.8   75.0   60.0   59.9 
      720x400        70.1

```I tried:
```

xrandr --output VGA1 --mode 1440x900
```from xterm and it also shows blue screen with "VGA not support" on the monitor.
Luckily, when I reboot and logged into xterm, it revert itself. 
Unfortunately the same didn't apply when I tried logging into xfce session.

I also tried changing the resolution into the safer one like 1280x768, but the setting is gone when I exited xterm.

Let's just say maybe my current VGA cannot support resolution higher than 1280x1024 while my monitor does. 

Is there anyway to set my resolution permanently for my xfce session from terminal?

Because apparently, my xfce session retains the last resolution setting (1440x900) which causes this problem in the first place.

P.S: 
I bypassed the looping login by using:
```

mv /usr/bin/xsplash /usr/bin/xsplash.disabled
```That I got from other thread, but to login into xterm, I have to enable the xsplash again.
I do not know how to copy and paste things from terminal, so I just write it down manually.

---

