---
title: "SSH'ing from anywhere to my laptop"
date: 2011-12-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
I realize the good people at this forum get so many noobish SSH questions, but since google had no answers this time around, I have to add another.

For the past week I've been trying to use SSH to port forward from a remote computer. I don't have a server, but I tried my IP address with no results. I set up the port forwarding through my SMC router (possibly incorrectly) but I can still only SSH into my laptop... from my own laptop. I can't even get it to work with the other computers on my network. Just in case it's because my ssh command is wrong, I'll post it too: (this isn't the port forwarding command)
ssh -p port [email]me@my.ip.add.ress[/email]
Anyone have any insight?

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2011-12-23
Do you have a firewall that is blocking port 22 (SSH)?  Try looking at UFW or the graphical front-end, GUFW.  Then you can allow incoming connections for SSH.

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
Actually, it turns out my firewall wasn't even on (I had never touched it before). EIther way, it still doesn't work.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
you need to first install ssh server on your laptop

sudo apt-get install ssh

then your port forwarding should work.

Keep a good password and look into installing fail2ban on your computer. When someone port scans your ISP address they will see the port open and I am sure try to brute force it, like they do with everyone of my servers lol. ( Thank god for iptables and hosts.allow/deny )

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
I have it installed. I have all the necessary tools, I set up the port, I spent a half hour fighting with my SMC router, the firewall on my linux isn't blocking it, neither is the one on the mac on my network I'm using to test if my ssh is working. I can't log in from any computer but my own, which makes it kind of useless.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
> **Mahkoe said:**
> I have it installed. I have all the necessary tools, I set up the port, I spent a half hour fighting with my SMC router, the firewall on my linux isn't blocking it, neither is the one on the mac on my network I'm using to test if my ssh is working. I can't log in from any computer but my own, which makes it kind of useless.


open a terminal

type

sudo iptables-save

post the output

did you make sure you have the correct ip address of your computer to set the port forward to?

router should  forward port 22 to computer IP. ( I am sure you already know this...but just checking. )

Also have a look at this.

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Pm1qh2j0qY](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Pm1qh2j0qY)

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
Oh and can you ssh from your mac to ubuntu?

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
```
-A INPUT -j ufw-before-logging-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-before-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-after-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-after-logging-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-reject-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-track-input 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-before-logging-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-before-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-after-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-after-logging-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-reject-forward 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-before-logging-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-before-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-after-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-after-logging-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-reject-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-track-output 
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Dec 23 20:53:54 2011

```

Th video is not for the SMC I have, I don't have the "virtual server" mentioned in the video. And no, I cannot connect from the mac on my network.

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
Whoops, didn't get all of iptables-save.

```


# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Fri Dec 23 20:53:54 2011
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [4261:4274146]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [3666:441349]
:ufw-after-forward - [0:0]
:ufw-after-input - [0:0]
:ufw-after-logging-forward - [0:0]
:ufw-after-logging-input - [0:0]
:ufw-after-logging-output - [0:0]
:ufw-after-output - [0:0]
:ufw-before-forward - [0:0]
:ufw-before-input - [0:0]
:ufw-before-logging-forward - [0:0]
:ufw-before-logging-input - [0:0]
:ufw-before-logging-output - [0:0]
:ufw-before-output - [0:0]
:ufw-reject-forward - [0:0]
:ufw-reject-input - [0:0]
:ufw-reject-output - [0:0]
:ufw-track-input - [0:0]
:ufw-track-output - [0:0]
-A INPUT -j ufw-before-logging-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-before-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-after-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-after-logging-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-reject-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-track-input 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-before-logging-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-before-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-after-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-after-logging-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-reject-forward 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-before-logging-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-before-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-after-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-after-logging-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-reject-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-track-output 
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Dec 23 20:53:54 2011

```

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
> **Mahkoe said:**
> ```
-A INPUT -j ufw-before-logging-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-before-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-after-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-after-logging-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-reject-input 
-A INPUT -j ufw-track-input 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-before-logging-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-before-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-after-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-after-logging-forward 
-A FORWARD -j ufw-reject-forward 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-before-logging-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-before-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-after-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-after-logging-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-reject-output 
-A OUTPUT -j ufw-track-output 
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Dec 23 20:53:54 2011

```

Th video is not for the SMC I have, I don't have the "virtual server" mentioned in the video. And no, I cannot connect from the mac on my network.


I dont see anything that could cause problems...but just in case...

sudo iptables -F
sudo iptables -X

sudo iptables-save should now just say
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.10 on Fri Dec 23 20:00:50 2011
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [94:4888]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [326:487552]
COMMIT

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
Also,

You should see if port 22 even shows up as being open from the outside.

Install nmap

sudo apt-get install nmap

Run

 nmap $(wget -O - [www.whatismyip.org](www.whatismyip.org) 2>/dev/null)

It should show port 22.

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
Okay, firstly, the iptable commands did have the expected output from iptables-save. The last command was apprently incorrect. Also, I still cannot ssh from the mac.

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
ALSO I just realized, I don't think it's a big deal, but I'm not using port 22 for ssh. AND I'm using 10.10. I usually remember to mention that, sorry

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
> **Mahkoe said:**
> ALSO I just realized, I don't think it's a big deal, but I'm not using port 22 for ssh. AND I'm using 10.10. I usually remember to mention that, sorry


Did you change the sshd config on your computer? If not then your SSH is using port 22.

on your MAC you should be able to open the terminal and type

ssh username@ubuntucomputer

---

### Post by bobsageek on 2011-12-23
I struggled with an odd SSH issue from any workstation in my home office to my Ubuntu server, [this article helped.]("http://www.olamalu.com/content/ssh-connection-refused-after-ubuntu-upgrade") Worth a look, was back in business in 5 minutes.

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
> **collisionystm said:**
> Did you change the sshd config on your computer? If not then your SSH is using port 22.

on your MAC you should be able to open the terminal and type

ssh username@ubuntucomputer

Yes, I modified it and restarted the service, but I still can't get in. Also, ListenAddress:: is commented out, so that's not the problem.

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
> **Mahkoe said:**
> Yes, I modified it and restarted the service, but I still can't get in. Also, ListenAddress:: is commented out, so that's not the problem.


# This is the ssh client system-wide configuration file.  See
# ssh_config(5) for more information.  This file provides defaults for
# users, and the values can be changed in per-user configuration files
# or on the command line.

# Configuration data is parsed as follows:
#  1. command line options
#  2. user-specific file
#  3. system-wide file
# Any configuration value is only changed the first time it is set.
# Thus, host-specific definitions should be at the beginning of the
# configuration file, and defaults at the end.

# Site-wide defaults for some commonly used options.  For a comprehensive
# list of available options, their meanings and defaults, please see the
# ssh_config(5) man page.

Host *
#   ForwardAgent no
#   ForwardX11 no
#   ForwardX11Trusted yes
#   RhostsRSAAuthentication no
#   RSAAuthentication yes
#   PasswordAuthentication yes
#   HostbasedAuthentication no
#   GSSAPIAuthentication no
#   GSSAPIDelegateCredentials no
#   GSSAPIKeyExchange no
#   GSSAPITrustDNS no
#   BatchMode no
#   CheckHostIP yes
#   AddressFamily any
#   ConnectTimeout 0
#   StrictHostKeyChecking ask
#   IdentityFile ~/.ssh/identity
#   IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
#   IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_dsa
**#   Port 22**
    [COLOR="Red"]Port 2200[/COLOR]
#   Protocol 2,1
#   Cipher 3des
#   Ciphers aes128-ctr,aes192-ctr,aes256-ctr,arcfour256,arcfour128,aes128-cbc,3des-cbc
#   MACs hmac-md5,hmac-sha1,umac-64@openssh.com,hmac-ripemd160
#   EscapeChar ~
#   Tunnel no
#   TunnelDevice any:any
#   PermitLocalCommand no
#   VisualHostKey no
#   ProxyCommand ssh -q -W %h:%p gateway.example.com
    SendEnv LANG LC_*
    HashKnownHosts yes
    GSSAPIAuthentication yes
    GSSAPIDelegateCredentials no

So regarding the part i made bold.

You removed the #

changed the Port number

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
This isn't the file I edited... I edited /etc/ssh/sshd_config like the tutorials told me to. Which one is this?

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
> **Mahkoe said:**
> This isn't the file I edited... I edited /etc/ssh/sshd_config like the tutorials told me to. Which one is this?


sshd_config

... mine is newer. 11.10.

Post your sshd_config

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
# Package generated configuration file
# See the sshd_config(5) manpage for details

# What ports, IPs and protocols we listen for
Port 14621
# Use these options to restrict which interfaces/protocols sshd will bind to
#ListenAddress ::
#ListenAddress 0.0.0.0
Protocol 2
# HostKeys for protocol version 2
HostKey /etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key
HostKey /etc/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key
#Privilege Separation is turned on for security
UsePrivilegeSeparation yes

# Lifetime and size of ephemeral version 1 server key
KeyRegenerationInterval 3600
ServerKeyBits 768

# Logging
SyslogFacility AUTH
LogLevel INFO

# Authentication:
LoginGraceTime 120
PermitRootLogin yes
StrictModes yes

RSAAuthentication yes
PubkeyAuthentication yes
#AuthorizedKeysFile	%h/.ssh/authorized_keys

# Don't read the user's ~/.rhosts and ~/.shosts files
IgnoreRhosts yes
# For this to work you will also need host keys in /etc/ssh_known_hosts
RhostsRSAAuthentication no
# similar for protocol version 2
HostbasedAuthentication no
# Uncomment if you don't trust ~/.ssh/known_hosts for RhostsRSAAuthentication
#IgnoreUserKnownHosts yes

# To enable empty passwords, change to yes (NOT RECOMMENDED)
PermitEmptyPasswords no

# Change to yes to enable challenge-response passwords (beware issues with
# some PAM modules and threads)
ChallengeResponseAuthentication no

# Change to no to disable tunnelled clear text passwords
#PasswordAuthentication yes

# Kerberos options
#KerberosAuthentication no
#KerberosGetAFSToken no
#KerberosOrLocalPasswd yes
#KerberosTicketCleanup yes

# GSSAPI options
#GSSAPIAuthentication no
#GSSAPICleanupCredentials yes

X11Forwarding yes
X11DisplayOffset 10
PrintMotd no
PrintLastLog yes
TCPKeepAlive yes
#UseLogin no

#MaxStartups 10:30:60
#Banner /etc/issue.net

# Allow client to pass locale environment variables
AcceptEnv LANG LC_*

Subsystem sftp /usr/lib/openssh/sftp-server

# Set this to 'yes' to enable PAM authentication, account processing,
# and session processing. If this is enabled, PAM authentication will
# be allowed through the ChallengeResponseAuthentication and
# PasswordAuthentication.  Depending on your PAM configuration,
# PAM authentication via ChallengeResponseAuthentication may bypass
# the setting of "PermitRootLogin without-password".
# If you just want the PAM account and session checks to run without
# PAM authentication, then enable this but set PasswordAuthentication
# and ChallengeResponseAuthentication to 'no'.
UsePAM yes

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
paste output of

cat /etc/hosts.deny

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
and

nmap localhost


you should see


PORT    STATE SERVICE
22/tcp  open  ssh   <<<< will be your port
631/tcp open  ipp

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
etc/hosts.deny:
```

# /etc/hosts.deny: list of hosts that are _not_ allowed to access the system.
#                  See the manual pages hosts_access(5) and hosts_options(5).
#
# Example:    ALL: some.host.name, .some.domain
#             ALL EXCEPT in.fingerd: other.host.name, .other.domain
#
# If you're going to protect the portmapper use the name "portmap" for the
# daemon name. Remember that you can only use the keyword "ALL" and IP
# addresses (NOT host or domain names) for the portmapper, as well as for
# rpc.mountd (the NFS mount daemon). See portmap(8) and rpc.mountd(8)
# for further information.
#
# The PARANOID wildcard matches any host whose name does not match its
# address.
#
# You may wish to enable this to ensure any programs that don't
# validate looked up hostnames still leave understandable logs. In past
# versions of Debian this has been the default.
# ALL: PARANOID

```

nmap localhost:
```

Starting Nmap 5.21 ( http://nmap.org ) at 2011-12-23 21:55 AST
Nmap scan report for localhost (127.0.0.1)
Host is up (0.00039s latency).
Hostname localhost resolves to 2 IPs. Only scanned 127.0.0.1
rDNS record for 127.0.0.1: localhost.localdomain
Not shown: 999 closed ports
PORT    STATE SERVICE
631/tcp open  ipp

Nmap done: 1 IP address (1 host up) scanned in 0.07 seconds


```

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
sudo service ssh start

nmap localhost

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
ssh was already started, nmap localhost had no change

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
try

sudo service ssh restart

and then check nmap

for whatever reason ssh just isn't listening. The port number could be to long ( not sure though ) 

Try a 2 digit port number, then a 3


Make sure to restart ssh after each change

sudo service ssh restart

---

### Post by Mahkoe on 2011-12-23
Okay, this is a little weird: 22 works, 222 works, 2222 works, but 14621 (my usual port) doesn't, and neither does 4621. But it works now with 2222. BUT my damn router says it's an illegal port, and I can't set it up AND I still can't connect. I'll just fiddle with it 'til it works.

Okay, thanks

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-12-23
> **Mahkoe said:**
> Okay, this is a little weird: 22 works, 222 works, 2222 works, but 14621 (my usual port) doesn't, and neither does 4621. But it works now with 2222. BUT my damn router says it's an illegal port, and I can't set it up AND I still can't connect. I'll just fiddle with it 'til it works.

Okay, thanks

[http://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20090325162123AAcIlRL](http://answers.yahoo.com/question/index?qid=20090325162123AAcIlRL)

---

