---
title: "12.04 VNCServer - no menu - just terminal"
date: 2012-06-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AlexBooton on 2012-06-08
Hi,

Just installed 12.04 and tightvncserver (and also xvncserver).  

When I make a connection from a remote PC the vnc server window comes up with no menu at all.  Just a terminal.

And the menu for the terminal is on the terminal's title bar and NOT on the screen's title bar.

Same thing happens if I run apps from terminal.  For example, I run gedit and get a window with the menu included instead of at the top of the screen.

I'm afraid I don't have a valid install.

What's going on?  I need the menus!

I've installed 12.04 on a second box and VNC works correctly with the unity menu et. al.

Help please?

AB

---

### Post by AlexBooton on 2012-06-09
Anyone?  I could use some help.

All I get is a gray window and a terminal.  No menu at all.

Any ideas greatly appreciated.

AB

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2012-06-09
Uninstall both of those and try vino-server

[http://bimma.me.uk/2010/01/31/xubuntu-904-quick-and-dirty-vnc-remote-access/](http://bimma.me.uk/2010/01/31/xubuntu-904-quick-and-dirty-vnc-remote-access/)

---

### Post by AlexBooton on 2012-06-09
Jose,

Thanks for the feedback.  Lord knows I need it badly. :confused:

I tried vino but couldn't get it going.  It actually was already installed but when I ran vino-preferences

** (vino-preferences:8586): WARNING **: Command line `dbus-launch --autolaunch=a43257ee514f4d31148476460000000a --binary-syntax --close-stderr' exited with non-zero exit status 1: Autolaunch error: X11 initialization failed.\n

I don't know what that means but it doesn't appear to be working.

Any thoughts?

Or any way to get tightvncserver to actually display the menus?

Thanks,

AB

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2012-06-10
You may need to run vino-preferences from the server itself (sitting at it!) and ensure you have X running on the server.

I am using vinagre as my remote client now, but remmina is just fine too.

---

### Post by AlexBooton on 2012-06-10
Finally found the answer at: [http://kb.realvnc.com/questions/196/__print](http://kb.realvnc.com/questions/196/__print)

Turns out the xstartup file packaged with 12.04 is wrong.

The replacement referenced above works like a charm.

Jose, Thank you for your suggestions.  You're the only one who tried to help and I appreciate it.

AB

---

### Post by Captain Spectacular on 2012-07-11
Thanks, Jose! Upgraded recently to find the exact issues Alex had.

---

