---
title: "How do I whitelist my gfx card"
date: 2009-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kokkus on 2009-05-06
Hey. I Havn't been a victom for this problem since version 7.10 I guess.
I think my gfx card is blacklisted now for some reason.
I installed Ubuntu 9.04 this morning and can't get Compiz to work.
I totally need some of its functions. And I can't even play games now.
Please help.
Thanks in advance :)

---

### Post by gamblor01 on 2009-05-06
Did you enable the proprietary drivers?  (I'm assuming you are using an nvidia card...not sure if ATI drivers show up in this panel or not).  Try going to System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers.  Then enable the latest proprietary driver and reboot.

You can't use compiz or play any games unless you have a decent graphics card AND you have enabled the necessary drivers.  ;)

---

### Post by monsterstack on 2009-05-06
Assuming your drivers are all in order, you'll then need to open up this file in any text editor you wish, although you'll need to be a superuser to edit it:

```
gksudo gedit /usr/bin/compiz
   or
sudo nano /usr/bin/compiz
```

As you can see it's not actually an executable or a link but a shell script. Look for this bit:

```
# Driver whitelist
WHITELIST="nvidia intel ati radeon i810 fglrx"
```

Put your graphics card in there. There is also a blacklist section too if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by brendan.lefoll on 2009-05-06
let me guess you are on a pre R600 ati card?

What card is it?

---

### Post by kokkus on 2009-05-06
Yes it is Nvida, and yes I have tried all the 3 drivers. NOt even the recommanded driver worked. I came to low-graphic mode each time I tried so I had to fix the xserver in recovery mode.
I dont understand. Everything worked fine before I installed 9.04.
EDIT: I think my card is blacklisted because none of the driver alternatives worked.

---

### Post by monsterstack on 2009-05-06
No nVidia cards are blacklisted at the moment so it's not that which is causing the problem.

---

### Post by kokkus on 2009-05-06
OK so can somebody plz help me here?
None of the 3 driver alternatives worked, so how do I fix this ?

---

### Post by gamblor01 on 2009-05-06
Could it be that something is screwy with the configuration in your xorg.conf?  Post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by kokkus on 2009-05-06
How do I do that?

---

### Post by acimmarusti on 2009-05-07
```

gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

---

### Post by kokkus on 2009-05-07
Ok now I am in this file, what do I do next?
I am sorry. Its been forever since the last time I did this. I don't remember a thing.
So I just post the whole file here and you guys will see where the problem is?

---

### Post by acimmarusti on 2009-05-07
dude, copy the contents of the file you just opened with gedit into your post!. I can't believe you have that many posts!

---

### Post by kokkus on 2009-05-07
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by gamblor01 on 2009-05-07
Well there is your problem right there.  First of all, your xorg.conf never loads the glx module and second, it never specifies the nvidia driver.  When you go to System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers and pick one of the drivers (I would recommend the 180 driver since it's the newest) it's supposed to update your xorg.conf file.  Perhaps it's not doing that somehow?

I'm not 100% positive about everything that happens when you load the nvidia driver from that panel but certainly it must update your xorg.conf file with the nvidia-related information.  We can try adding the necessary lines manually I suppose.  Just have to hope that any other relevant changes to the system are already in place.  Open your xorg.conf again:

```

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```and try making the following changes (I have highlighted the changes in red, bold text):

> 
[COLOR=Red][B]Section "Module"
        [/B][/COLOR]    [COLOR=Red][B]Load    "glx"
EndSection[/B][/COLOR]

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
[COLOR=Red][B]    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"[/B][/COLOR]
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "Default Screen"
    Monitor "Configured Monitor"
    Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Now save the file and reboot.  See if that works.  It might hose your display again though I doubt it.  Apparently you're already capable of going into recovery mode so if you need to, just undo the above changes in recovery mode and then reboot and you'll be back to the point you're at right now.  Alternatively you can stick in a live cd and boot into that.  Then just mount your Ubuntu partition on your hard drive and undo the changes to xorg.conf that way.

I installed 9.04 on a test partition on my system and had no problems loading the nvidia drivers.  I was even able to install wine and Steam, and then play Team Fortress 2.  With the right tweaks I'm getting 100+ FPS with DirectX 8.1 so I don't think this is a bug since everything works fine on my system -- unless it's something caused by your specific hardware.  I don't know.  Try the above changes and see what happens.

---

### Post by kokkus on 2009-05-07
Ok done and back to start. 
So what do I do now? I don't have a live CD.
I have used the OS to upgrade ever since version 7.04 or something.
Maybe I should make a live CD soon.

---

