---
title: ".ogg to .mp3 in terminal. How?"
date: 2006-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GabrielWolff on 2006-05-16
I would like to convert a lot of ogg files to mp3. 
I am having problems with my CPU so I'd like to use the terminal to use *nice*.
Is there any script for that?
Remember: It's a lot of files, and I don't wanna type in "Y" any time it starts converting another file.

G

---

### Post by az on 2006-05-16
I'm not at home, but read the gstreamer man page:

man gst-launch
It would be somethig like this:

gst-launch filesrc location=music.ogg ! vorbisfile ! lame ! filesink ! location=music.mp3
 

I don't know if you can use wildcards, but I think you can....

On Dapper, the executable is
gst-launch0.10 ......

---

### Post by GabrielWolff on 2006-05-16
[QUOTE=azz]I'm not at home, but read the gstreamer man page:

man gst-launch
It would be somethig like this:

gst-launch filesrc location=music.ogg ! vorbisfile ! lame ! filesink ! location=music.mp3
 

I don't know if you can use wildcards, but I think you can....

On Dapper, the executable is
gst-launch0.10 ......[/QUOTE]

That's a bit too heavy for me, plus I think I would have to convert my music file by file, wouldn't I?

Any other way? 

I heard it's possible to play music to th hard disc with MPlayer. Don't know what that really means. Would like to try it, though...

G

---

### Post by Quirky on 2006-05-16
A poor mans ogg to mp3 using sox and lame - I'm sure someone can do better.

```
apt-get install sox lame
```

```

#!/bin/sh

if [ $# == 0 ] ; then
  echo "Usage: ogg2mp3 file"
fi

OGG=$1
WAV=`basename $OGG .ogg`.wav
MP3=`basename $OGG .ogg`.mp3

# convert to wav
sox ${OGG} ${WAV}
lame ${WAV} ${MP3}
rm ${WAV}

```

Also, to record rado streams in (the latest) mplayer - earlier versions had a slightly different syntax:
```
mplayer -cache 512 -playlist playlist.pls -ao pcm:file=outfile.wav -vc dummy -vo null
```
the playlist file contains the URL of the stream, http*:*//whatever.com/bla

Just been playing with the gstreamer pipelines. Seems quite handy, if a bit strange to uderstand. Some reading of man pages required I think (lots of nice examples).

---

### Post by IYY on 2006-05-16
The above will work, but I will not suggest doing it. Converting from one lossy format to another *will *lose quality.

---

### Post by ajvdvegt on 2007-06-11
A rather late reply, but it might be useful non the less. Here's a script to convert all ogg files in a folder to mp3 files. Note that the above author is absolutely right: you should be converting from one lossy format to another. But sometimes you don't have another option.

[FONT="Courier New"]for OGG in *.ogg
do
[INDENT]        MP3="$1`basename "$OGG" .ogg`.mp3"
        gst-launch filesrc location="\"$OGG\"" ! oggdemux ! vorbisdec ! audioconvert ! lame ! \
       id3mux name=tag v2-tag=true v1-tag=true ! filesink location="\"$MP3\""[/INDENT]
done[/FONT]

Output isn't really nice, but it gets the job done when you've go all the lame encoder codec installed. Note that you ID3-tags are preserved!

---

