---
title: "2.6.19 Kernel"
date: 2006-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by goldenatom on 2006-12-02
Can anyone explain to me how to install the new kernel?

---

### Post by Delkster on 2006-12-02
Is there a particular reason why you need it?

Newer kernels aren't packaged for Edgy, and if you want an Ubuntu-supplied kernel, that'll have to wait for the next Ubuntu release.

If you really need the latest kernel, you'll either need to use the unstable development version of Ubuntu (not recommended), find and use a 2.6.19 kernel that some third party has packaged for Edgy, or download the kernel source code and compile it yourself.

Upgrading to the latest kernel usually doesn't give much benefit unless you know that it supports some hardware you have that the older kernel doesn't support, or fixes a particular problem you're having, or something like that. Security fixes are applied by the Ubuntu team to the old kernel that's provided with the system (and updated with standard system updates) so even security fixes in the latest kernel aren't really a reason to upgrade.

---

### Post by iamhugeinjapan on 2006-12-02
If you still want to do it despite the good things said above, here's a recent guide that was doing the rounds:

[http://www.howtoforge.com/kernel_compilation_ubuntu](http://www.howtoforge.com/kernel_compilation_ubuntu)

---

### Post by Orbitr8 on 2006-12-02
I just upgraded my kernel about an hour ago in Edgy and so far so good.

There is an older guide that I followed (replacing the versions where necessary), reinstalled my video drivers, and all is well.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=157560&highlight=new+kernel](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=157560&highlight=new+kernel)

---

### Post by goldenatom on 2006-12-02
Thanks. 

I don't have a particular need for the new kernel. I just like trying to break my system and then get it working again, its good practice. 

Besides new hardware support, does a new kernel usually offer increased performance/stability?

---

### Post by tribaal on 2006-12-02
Well every new kernel fixes a bunch of bugs... but nowdays bugs are mostly apparent if you use unusual hardware. Overall for the main chunk of it, it's rock solid.

- trib'

---

### Post by Orbitr8 on 2006-12-02
grrrrrr.
 it breaks VMWare at this point.
 Can't go back to old kernel unless I want to reinstall video drivers

---

### Post by Kikoolol on 2006-12-03
Hi guys !

Orbitr8, did you compile and install the last version from kernel.org (2.6.19) ? We are several people who have experienced an issue with it like we said in this thread :
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=310546]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=310546")

Any help would be appreciated, thanks :) 

Kikoolol

---

### Post by zgornel on 2006-12-03
2.6.19 worked for me but it's no use using it without security/performance patches. My advice is to recompile the 2.6.17 sources from the repos. For info on the modifications, try: [http://kernel.xc.net/](http://kernel.xc.net/) .

---

### Post by Orbitr8 on 2006-12-03
Hi, Kikoolol

 ">Orbitr8, did you compile and install the last version from kernel.org (2.6.19) ? We are several people who have experienced an issue with it like we said in this thread :>"

Yes, I grabbed the latest released 2.6.19 from [http://kernel.org/](http://kernel.org/)
(not knowing if I needed a further patch, I did NOT use the patch)

I'm running a core2 duo, two IDE drives, one SATA drive, two DVD burners, nVidia video drivers, Beryl, and the only thing  that doesn't seem to work is VMWare, which, after reading around, is an unresolveable issue at this point.
 
 Today I went back to the 2.6.18.2 kernel, which required relinking the /usr/src/linux link to the older 2.6.18.2 kernel before reinstalling the nVidia driver.

 If you have an nVidia driver, X won't start until you reinstall the nVidia driver after booting to a different kernel. 
 Wish that could be more automated somehow.

 As I learn more about linux, I'll be able to contribute a bit more on the technical side

---

### Post by Kikoolol on 2006-12-03
Hi !

Orbitr8, did you use make-kpkg to compile the kernel ? This is the way I have been doing it since the 2.6.15 release (as far as I remember), and it always worked, but not this time ... maybe it's related to this.

Nevertheless, there's now several posts in this forum where people says that they can't boot this new kernel. In my case, it's clearly linked to the unability to mount the root partition (on a SATA drive).

If you can tell us the procedure you used to compile the kernel, maybe we can test it and see if it solves the problem. Like I said earlier, mine was using make-kpkg command.

Thks !

Kikoolol

---

### Post by sandrovich on 2006-12-03
I'm trying to compile kernel 2.6.19 but it doesn't boot correctly, it fails to mount root partition when I was using a single SATA drive. In the other hand, when I use the same kernel compiled in a IDE drive, it boots to the login window, all went ok. I'm using Edgy, and I getting nervous, because I need this new version because the one that comes with edgy slow down the boot searching for SATA drives. I'll go back to a previous release, 2.6.18.

---

### Post by sandrovich on 2006-12-03
I fixed, I'm running Ubuntu Edgy with kernel 2.6.19
I guess the problem was importing old config because I manually had to enable ahci and uli sata drivers, because it was all disabled. I think there are missing or new parameters and then it doesn't import these options well, that's why it didn't mount root filesystem, because it didn't detect the sata drive.

Bye

---

### Post by Kikoolol on 2006-12-04
Thks sandrovich ! Somebody has confirmed this in my original post on the subject too :

> So, in short: I have SATA disk controller, that breaks upgrading Edgy to 2.6.19, which is fixed by selecting SATA support + module(s) in 2.6.19.

Will try it as soon as I can ! Thanks again :)

Kikoolol

---

### Post by Orbitr8 on 2006-12-04
Kikoolol, sry for not getting back sooner, I've been fixing Windows boxes the last couple of days. (see... windows DOES have a purpose.  It pays my rent)

Here's an excerpt from the page I found instructions on.

--------------------------------------
make-kpkg clean

make-kpkg -initrd kernel_image kernel_headers modules_image

----------------------------------------

I also failed to notice that you were having SATA boot issues... I boot to an IDE drive, as my motherboard has issues with a SATA boot, regardless of o/s.
Glad to hear you fingered it out, tho.

(I went back a step to 2.6.18.2 for VMWare use)

---

### Post by Delkster on 2006-12-05
> **goldenatom said:**
> Besides new hardware support, does a new kernel usually offer increased performance/stability?

Most of the changes in the kernel are bug fixes, so yes, newer kernels may improve stability (although sometimes new bugs may be introduced into the kernel faster than old ones are fixed...) but usually it takes some luck to hit a kernel bug anyway. If you haven't experienced any stability issues, a newer kernel probably won't fix anything for you either.

Sometimes there may be performance improvements in the kernel but between two odd patch releases (by which I mean that only the x part in 2.6.x changes) there probably isn't any significant difference unless you specifically know that a particular release has something improved. I wouldn't update my kernel from one random patch version to another in hopes of performance increase.

---

### Post by kishd on 2006-12-05
There is a way to try out the new kernel without borking your system. Open /etc/apt/sources.list and replace all instances of edgy with feisty. Use synaptic and click reload. now search for linux-image-2.6.19-whatever-386 and install it. Edit your sources list and replace feisty with edgy again before installing/updating any software. When you reboot you will have the option of booting either kernel ie 2.6.17 or 2.6.19

---

