---
title: "10.04 broken! impossible to add a printer"
date: 2010-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alan_lewis on 2010-04-26
How about this for an oversight!  I have installed an 10.04 beta 2, and it went reasonably well, until I tried to print!  Here's what happened
System -> Administration p>printing
Fine
Add printer
Fine
Network address of printer entered
Fine
printer identified as HP
Fine
suggested driver
Fine
give it a name and location in dialogue box 
Fine
Enter password for **root** on localhost
****!!!!
trying different account name is rejected as not root

Not possible to add a printer to Unbuntu 10.04 as the root password is encrypted at installation and my account cannot change it
No printing on Ubuntu 
Guess I have to go back to Fedora -no problems printing there

Regards,
Dissapointed  :(

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2010-04-26
Are you saying that your account does not have admin.

Reboot, hold down shift and boot into a root recovery shell.

```
adduser username admin
```

Then your password should work.

If I have understood your problem correctly.

---

### Post by alan_lewis on 2010-04-26
Thanks for the quick reply.  

My account does have (some) admin privileges. The problem is that the Add Printer dialogue **INSISTS** on being authenticated the **root** account and no other account will do.  At least in the 10.04 beta 2 I am using.

Regards,

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2010-04-26
Type ```
ubuntu-bug
``` to file a bug report.

Remember this is beta.

The official release is only a couple of days away.

I am not allowed to tell you how to enable the root account on these forums.

I`ve had no problems with printing in beta 1 2 or rc.

Can you make it work if you open the printing dialogue as admin?

```
gksudo system-config-printer
```

---

### Post by alan_lewis on 2010-04-26
Hi nothingspecial

Many thanks or taking the time to reply to my problem.

What I eventually did, and you may castigate me for doing so, was force the computer to boot into "recovery" mode which leaves the command line prompt wit root login. From which I changed the root password to one that I could use again if needed. I don't use the root account for everyday work, I use my own account. Knowing the root password, I was able to complete the installation of the printer driver.

I did try your previous tip, but that did not cure the problem. That is, I could reach the last stage of adding a printer and installing the driver, but the prompt did require root authentication, nothing else would successsfully complete the addition of a printer. If this is fixed in the final version that's great, but if not, it will be a major headache for new users unfamiliar with Linux.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2010-04-26
I don`t blame you. I was kind of hinting at that.

Still, explaining how to login as root is not allowed on these forums.

Glad you got it sorted. :)

---

