---
title: "12.04 Video Screen Goes blank"
date: 2012-07-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kla631 on 2012-07-26
ATI AMD 5700 Series Video Card, 12.04 upgrade, video just blinks out, and can't get it back, sometimes this happens at boot screen, sometimes it happens after the splash screen and sometimes this happens when I get to the desktop, also unity doesn't load, i researched online but couldn't find anything helpful.

Able to boot into windows no problem.

Recently after I upgraded to 12.04 my video has been going blank.  This happens when I plug in live CDs too for some very strange reason.  But I am able to boot into Windows7 no problems.

Never had a problem with previous versions of Ubuntu only 12.04.

---

### Post by kla631 on 2012-07-26
Bump

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-07-26
Not sure how you searched the web since there are a ton of results I am getting back. Anyways, what graphics driver are you using?
This forum post has some potential workarounds in it that you may want to try:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-07-26
If you did an upgrade rather than a fresh install, did you first uninstall the proprietary driver (if you were using it)?

(Please leave 24 hours before bumping.  We are all here voluntarily on our own time.  It may be that the person with the best answer lives half a world away from you.  They may be asleep, at work, eating dinner, playing with the grand children or out to dinner with their spouse when you post.)

---

### Post by Jay MC on 2012-07-26
I had a possibly related problem with my laptop monitor when I first installed 11.10.  The screen backlight didn't come on at all until the installation had finished and the laptop rebooted.  Luckily, I could just about see that something was going on (if I caught the sunlight just right I could see, but not read, "stuff happening").  So I left it alone to see what happened, and it eventually restarted to a login prompt with video working.  It was plugged into the modem via ethernet, so I wonder if it automatically updated the driver to one that worked (someone correct me if that's a stupid hypothesis - I know that the problem resolved itself, by itself, but am not sure how).

I've not had a problem since then.  OP, does this sound familar, or is it an intermittent problem for you?  Have you ever been able to boot all the way into Ubuntu 12.04 and use it?  Or do you give up/turn off your laptop when the screen has been off for a while?  If the latter, all I can say is that plugging it into to the modem and letting it get on with whatever it was doing (that I couldn't even see on the monitor) somehow worked for me.

Also, in the OP's defence, I struggled to find info about my problem online because I wasn't sure what to search for.  "Black screen" was too vague.  I forget what eventually brought back people with similar problems - I think it was something to do with backlight - but it wasn't the first or even second thing I tried searching for.

---

### Post by kla631 on 2012-07-26
> **QIII said:**
> If you did an upgrade rather than a fresh install, did you first uninstall the proprietary driver (if you were using it)?

(Please leave 24 hours before bumping.  We are all here voluntarily on our own time.  It may be that the person with the best answer lives half a world away from you.  They may be asleep, at work, eating dinner, playing with the grand children or out to dinner with their spouse when you post.)

No, I did not remove anything just let the installation do its work.  
It did not happen right away.  I was using a tweak tool I think Unity Tweak or Ubuntu tweak and I used the cleanup tool and things started going bad right after that.  Also I cannot see why it would interfere with any live cds even tried a windows installation disk to pinpoint problem.. The screen blanking happened with that also.  Also tried to boot into recover mode and used the graphic failsafe mode, got an error saying screens not found.

Drive I'm guessing is fglrx
Thanks

---

### Post by kla631 on 2012-07-26
> **Jay MC said:**
> I had a possibly related problem with my laptop monitor when I first installed 11.10.  The screen backlight didn't come on at all until the installation had finished and the laptop rebooted.  Luckily, I could just about see that something was going on (if I caught the sunlight just right I could see, but not read, "stuff happening").  So I left it alone to see what happened, and it eventually restarted to a login prompt with video working.  It was plugged into the modem via ethernet, so I wonder if it automatically updated the driver to one that worked (someone correct me if that's a stupid hypothesis - I know that the problem resolved itself, by itself, but am not sure how).

I've not had a problem since then.  OP, does this sound familar, or is it an intermittent problem for you?  Have you ever been able to boot all the way into Ubuntu 12.04 and use it?  Or do you give up/turn off your laptop when the screen has been off for a while?  If the latter, all I can say is that plugging it into to the modem and letting it get on with whatever it was doing (that I couldn't even see on the monitor) somehow worked for me.

Also, in the OP's defence, I struggled to find info about my problem online because I wasn't sure what to search for.  "Black screen" was too vague.  I forget what eventually brought back people with similar problems - I think it was something to do with backlight - but it wasn't the first or even second thing I tried searching for.

Thanks

I'm using a desktop not a laptop.

---

### Post by kla631 on 2012-07-27
Solved I hope.

When I used fglrx info it gave me command not found.  I was able to boot into ubuntu and had to be quick before the sensor gave off no input error power save mode from the monitor, I checked the driver which was not activated--it was before--so I activated the driver and while it was installing the screen when blank again.   I let it go since computer was working but no monitor, ran an errand came back, rebooted and Ubuntu has staying power.

Now when I use fglrxinfo it gives me screen: 0 display : 0 
and why would it affect other aspects of the computer like blinking out during live cds etc?

---

