---
title: "13.04, Limited WiFi range (can only connect in same room as router)"
date: 2013-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Number703 on 2013-05-13
Running 13.04 on an HP-2000, Ralink RT5390R 802.11bgn Wi-Fi Adapter

Internet connection works fine if I'm close to the router, but if I move to a different room the internet doesn't really work. Everything works fine in Windows. Any ideas? Thanks.
I

---

### Post by Number703 on 2013-05-13
Bump, maybe?

---

### Post by cbraxton on 2013-05-13
If you are getting better range in Windows it is most likely a device driver issue. You should research what the best Linux driver is for your wireless chipset, or invest in a USB wireless adapter that is known to work well with Linux.

---

### Post by Number703 on 2013-05-15
Huh, I wasn't aware that there was more than one driver for any given wireless chip. I figured since it worked, just a limited range, I didn't need to install a driver. 

I downloaded the RT539x driver from [http://www.mediatek.com/_en/07_downloads/01_windows.php?sn=501](http://www.mediatek.com/_en/07_downloads/01_windows.php?sn=501) and am a little unsure how to install it.

Searching around, I put this in terminal:
tar xvjf [filename].bz2.bz2

and then.... not sure what to do. Later instructions say to run 
sudo make && sudo make install 

I get "make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found.  Stop." 

Another set of instructions for installing drivers was: 
s[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu Mono]udo apt-get install linux-headers-$(uname -r) build-essential[/FONT][/COLOR]
cd Downloadstar -xjf 2011_0719_RT3070_RT3370_RT5370_RT5372_Linux_STA_V2.5.0.3_DPOcd 2011_0719_RT3070_RT3370_RT5370_RT5372_Linux_STA_V2.5.0.3_DPOsudo make && sudo make installmake cleancd ..rm -rf 2011_0719_RT3070_RT3370_RT5370_RT5372_Linux_STA_V2.5.0.3_DPO
I changed the filename to the driver I have. At the 3rd line, cd 2011_... the output is "bash: cd: 2011_1007_RT5390_RT5392_Linux_STA_V2.5.0.3_DPO_v2.bz2.bz2: Not a directory"
And again, if I continue, sudo make doesn't do anything. Any ideas? 

Also, I have no idea if this driver is even different from the one I have. How do I see what driver I currently have?

---

### Post by Number703 on 2013-05-16
Well I solved it. And by "solved it" I mean I'm using Mint instead. Actually ended up fixing a few other minor issues I'd been having too. So yeah, if anybody finds this looking for a solution, maybe try other distros. Or, if you're deadset on Ubuntu, figure out what Mint is doing and then do that.

---

### Post by merc669 on 2013-05-16
Mint has its own set of issues. I am running a Linux Mint 14 Cinnamon Box (Dell XPS Series3), Windows 7 Pro 64 Bit Gamer Desktop, Ubuntu 13.04 Sony Viao Laptop. Ubuntu can see and look at Win7. Mint cannot. Mint does not see Ubuntu. This is using the file manager. Trying to search the network and all are on dedicated IP (Static) addresses. On Win7, Ubuntu shows up but cannot be read for obvious reason and Ubuntu can see the other devices (2 Netbooks Win7 Home). I agree, Ubuntu 13.04 is pretty buggy when compared with 12.10, but when it works it works correctly. And yes, my wireless is weak compared to 12.10 on the Sony. Mint is hardwired to router along with Win7.  I think it should have waited a bit to be released and ironed out some bugs. Mint, I love it except for the networking issues and is very stable. Maybe they can learn from each other and make each better. I love NEMO and added that to Ubuntu and removed Nautilus.

---

