---
title: "screen resolution is stuck at 800x600"
date: 2010-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AdamusKane on 2010-11-03
so here is the situation.  
i am using Backtrack 4 R1 which is a distro based on ubuntu.  
i am using an asus netbook dualbooting linux and the screen res is stuck at 800x600
normally i would post on the backtrack forum but they seem to not be able to get emails to me as the registration email has not yet reached me after a few days.  
backtrack does not have a gui to change the res (to my knowledge and i have searched long and hard for one and it does not exist)
i have used the xrandr command to no avail and i think somthing is hinky with my xorg.conf file as it does not look like any of the ones i have seen online.  

here is my xorg

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"

EndSection


thanks for any help

-Kane

---

