---
title: "10.4 Ubuntu Server - X Seg Faulting"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SiGr on 2010-05-04
Hello,

Installed Ubuntu Server 10.4 this weekend and set everything up, mysql, apache, some virtual box hosts using headless configs.  Everything was going swimmingly.

So today, about three days after the install I rebooted the box so I could move it to its more permanent home and when I brought it back up I'm getting X seg faults when gdm is attempting to run.

Xorg.0.log snippet
```

Backtrace:
0: /usr/bin/X (xorg_backtrace+0x28) [0x4a3248]
1: /usr/bin/X (0x400000+0x655ad) [0x4655ad]
2: /lib/libpthread.so.0 (0x7ff99dd9b000+0xf8f0) [0x7ff99ddaa8f0]
3: /usr/bin/X (xf86InitViewport+0x4b) [0x5247fb]
4: /usr/bin/X (InitOutput+0xb2d) [0x473f8d]
5: /usr/bin/X (0x400000+0x26005) [0x426005]
6: /lib/libc.so.6 (__libc_start_main+0xfd) [0x7ff99ca93c4d]
7: /usr/bin/X (0x400000+0x25d59) [0x425d59]
Segmentation fault at address 0x24

Caught signal 11 (Segmentation fault). Server aborting

Please consult the The X.Org Foundation support
         at http://wiki.x.org


```Now I'm at a loss at how to diagnose this any further.  The box has no monitor attached and is accessed via xdmcp

/etc/gdm/custom.conf
```

[xdmcp]
Enable=true
DisplaysPerHost=2
[chooser]
[security]
[debug]

```Any ideas on how I can go about diagnosing this issue?

Cheers,


Si.
PS. its not that big a problem as the boxes exported services work fine without X, I just like the interface for viewing logs from my box.

---

### Post by SiGr on 2010-05-04
Fixed - You have to have a monitor plugged in at boot otherwise something bails and takes X with it.

Guess it attempts to detect monitor capabilities at when X is started.  Now to figure out a way around this....

---

### Post by truekey on 2010-05-11
I have exactly the same problem. 
Have you found a way to configure xorg so it starts when monitor is not attached?

---

### Post by bjhom on 2010-07-01
Has anyone figured a work around? I've seen this reported on a few different pages, but none of the solutions seem to work for me.

I have a tv hooked up through component to my GeForce 8400 GS but no VGA monitor.  I'd appreciate any help.

---

### Post by bjhom on 2010-07-29
I got it to work by installing the driver directly from nvidia and blacklisting the nouveau driver.

---

