---
title: "New files/File modifications in Ubuntu not being recognized in Windows"
date: 2009-07-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by NovusMode on 2009-07-14
I have Ubuntu 9.04 and Windows 7 installed on a dual boot system. I store all my data on a separate partition (and NTFS formatted partition that is the E: drive on Windows 7 and was mounted as /data upon installation on Ubuntu). 

When I am in Ubuntu, I am able to read any files that I have created in Windows 7. If I make any changes from Ubuntu, or create any new files on this partition, there is no error as such- I am still able to access the files (and/or modifications) and continue working on them from Ubuntu. However, if I restart my computer and log into Windows 7, I am unable to find these files. Any files (originally saved from Windows) modified in Ubuntu still shows up without those modifications. 

If I THEN proceed to restart and log into Ubuntu, I find these files to be missing from Ubuntu. I'd really appreciate any pointers on how to go about tackling this problem.

---

### Post by mixmaster on 2009-07-14
First thing is to be absolutely sure that the files are going where you think they are.

Create a new file in ubuntu in the way you have described.
open a terminal window
cd to the directory where that file is located
Execute the following commands and save the results :
pwd
/bin/pwd
df .

Then log into windows and confirm that the files are indeed missing

then go back to ubuntu, cd to the same directory where you expect to find the missing files, execute the same three commands and post all the output of both sets of commands.

---

### Post by NovusMode on 2009-07-14
I created a new text file "testfile.txt" using vi in my /data directory. Then executed the code, here are the results;

```
novusmode@novusmode-laptop:/data$ pwd
/data
novusmode@novusmode-laptop:/data$ /bin/pwd
/data
novusmode@novusmode-laptop:/data$ df .
Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda4            220408268  73370260 147038008  34% /data
```

I logged into Windows. The file wasn't in the E drive as it should have been. Then I restarted the computer and logged back into Ubuntu- executed the code again- here are the results:

```
novusmode@novusmode-laptop:/data$ pwd
/data
novusmode@novusmode-laptop:/data$ /bin/pwd
/data
novusmode@novusmode-laptop:/data$ df .
Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda4            220408268  73370260 147038008  34% /data
```

Further, the file is no longer available through Ubuntu at the same location.

---

### Post by michy99 on 2009-07-14
What do you get for:```
ls -ld /data
```Is the partition automatically mounted at boot? If so, what is the fstab line for that partition?

---

### Post by NovusMode on 2009-07-14
Here is what i get: 

```


novusmode@novusmode-laptop:~$ ls -ld /data
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root 4096 2009-07-14 22:35 /data

novusmode@novusmode-laptop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=9ccfbfdf-dba9-46d2-8bb6-aebbbe4790e1 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=06BE365A06A2E9E8 /data ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IN 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=f80fbdc0-ae25-4e34-b6e6-b89a0cebeb22 /home ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=fdf08acb-b793-48cf-8d8f-5d8b15c609ad none swap sw 0 0
novusmode@novusmode-laptop:~$ 

```

I had set the "/data" mount point during installation- so it is automatically mounted at boot. Should I be modifying my fstab?

---

### Post by NovusMode on 2009-10-17
Thanks for the help- the problem seems to have been the fact that I would keep Windows in hibernate mode instead of doing a clean shut-down. It's gone away now that I do clean shut-downs.

---

