---
title: "16.04 Partition Inaccessible, No Grub, Can't Mount from USB Live"
date: 2017-01-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jplaj on 2017-01-09
I'm working on a computer running Ubuntu 16.04 as the sole operating system.  I attempted to install Linux Mint Cinnamon alongside it. The installation froze, and now there's no grub. Instead, the computer boots to a screen with a "Minimal Bash Like Grub" message, and I can't do anything except issue a command to restart the computer. The Computer's BIOS has been listing the Ubuntu partition with the message "(No Drive Present)" All attempts to reinstall Grub have returned errors.

The computer will run from USB drives, but boot-repair returns error messages. It asked me to give you this: [http://paste2.org/L4CaABhN](http://paste2.org/L4CaABhN)
Depending on whether I'm using the Ubuntu USB or the Mint Cinnamon USB, I get different error messages whenever I try to mount the computer's main partition. Ubuntu gives me a cryptic message about the partition needing to be cleaned. 

I ran a check disk function. It didn't appear to do anything. I can't do much with GParted either, and it gives me a message about the boot partition being 512MB when Linux says it's 2048. 

I'm currently attempting to upgrade 16.04 to 16.10, hoping that will fix the problem without erasing the computer's files, but it's been running all night and hasn't gone past the "Saving packages" phase. The activity feed looks like each attempt to find the packages or files or anything times out and they can't be accessed. Attempts to install Mint Cinnamon as a dual-boot have failed, with messages that I need to go back and fix certain blocks (I'd be more specific about the errors, but it's still trying to upgrade and I'm not sure I want to interrupt it right now).  

A fully functioning computer with at least Ubuntu would be ideal, but right now my priority is accessing the partition so I can back up the files before I try anything more drastic. 

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by yancek on 2017-01-09
You have mixed and MBR install with a UEFI install.  You have Grub boot code in the Master Boot Record but you also have an EFI partition with the correct files there.  Make sure you have the computer set to boot UEFI.  Not sure that will resolve the problem?  There is no sign of anything other than Ubuntu on the drives.  There is also no unallocated space on the drive on which you could install Mint.  The entire drive is taken up by the EFI, filesystem and swap partitions.  Which install option did you select with Mint?

Did you get any output such as warning/error messages when you ran fsck on the Ubuntu partition.

---

### Post by chris354 on 2017-01-09
If the drive is not encrypted, where all other options fail and you have another Linux system you can use, Remove the drive from the problem system and put it into an external case (just a usb adaptor works too). I had a failed upgrade 14.04 to 16.04 and was able to recover my important files from the home directory of the upgrade with this method, I wanted to switch out the disk in the laptop anyway so for me it wasn't a problem to do it that way.

Once you have recovered your files you can should then be able to wipe the disk and retry your installation going straight to 16.10 if that's your preference.

---

