---
title: ".ServiceUnknown errors"
date: 2013-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mringer on 2013-01-14
Lubuntu 12.04, installed off live CD, updates as of 23 Dec. Since then I have been getting several messages saying "internal error". It happens roughly every 2 or 3 days. The files 

```

var/log/apport.*

```

contain many error reports. The details vary but every one I have seen says this:

```

ServiceUnknown: The name org.gnome.SessionManager was not provided by any .service files

```

I cannot find any file called .service (meaning:  find  cannot find it).

Q1. I assume that the above error means that some  .service  file is missing.  Please where should I search for it and where should it be installed?

Q2. I understand that  apport  is supposed to send bug reports in the approved form but you have to jump through hoops to make it actually do so. (it is not enough just to check the box "send a report"). Please how should I do this?

Q3. Where is the man page for apport ?

---

### Post by hydn79 on 2013-01-14
Check this thread out:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1925194&page=18](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1925194&page=18)

---

### Post by charlie99 on 2013-01-14
not sure how a discussion about Unity / display managers helps.

I see something similar with **_[COLOR=Red]L[/COLOR]_**ubuntu 12.10 installed from a LiveCD (actually LXF166 DVD) onto a real old HP  / Compaq nx9010 (Pentium 4 ! and Radeon graphics TBC), but it is the Ubuntu updater and apport that report the 'internal errors' (and apt-get when I try something from the command line).

I went for Lubuntu specifically to avoid the complications of Unity etc on such an old machine..

Think I'll try posting a bug over on Launchpad, as I am not sure the crash reports the machine generates are being sent over..

---

