---
title: "9.10 crashed to initramfs"
date: 2009-12-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by uberdonkey5 on 2009-12-23
I was working on my laptop when the power went. Upon trying to reboot, it dropped to a command line with (initramfs) (apparently its BusyBox v1.13.3)

I tried booting up in different modes, to no avail. I tried a memory check, but following that I can no longer boot into windows either (I run dual boot).

I have no clue about mounting partitions etc and I am worried about damaging my windows install. Please could you tell me what to do with this? - currently I have only limited computer access (with this computer) and I need to use skype Xmas day!

many thanks
ud5

---

### Post by uberdonkey5 on 2009-12-23
solved.. foun response at end of another thread:

> **pigphish said:**
> Had the same issue. FSCK fixed it. 

I believe the problem was that there were errors that wouldn't let the main partition mount to boot. 

I booted from a 9.10 cd and did an fsck from terminal:
```
sudo fsck /dev/sda3
```

obviously replace sda3 with your drive. Gparted may be helpful in deciding which is yours. Incidentally my grub and 9.10 partition are on sda3

Fsck found some issues which it corrected. Once the issues were gone the drive became mountable and bootable. You can check if its mountable through the places menu. Select the appropriate hard drive. Or manually mount it in the terminal. 

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by haidaguy on 2010-08-28
"Replace sda3 with your drive"
How do I know what my drive is called?
thanks

---

