---
title: "11.04 issues.... (min,max,close buttons gone)"
date: 2011-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Iniquit-e on 2011-07-27
Honestly, this is the biggest reason I never foresee Ubuntu or even Linux in general ever taking off into the mainstream.... it's too difficult to maintain effectively. With Windows and Apple, you install it and it's ready to rock and will be years to come. Even in the event of a virus (Windows users), 90% of the time you still have a completely usable system and in turn you can easily remove the virus using one of the billions of programs and applications available for such a thing.

Now don't get me wrong.... I LOVE Linux, specifically Ubuntu. But holy hell has it been a constant battle. It took me months to get 10.10 where I wanted it. I had it all completely customized to my liking and literally.... it was PERFECT (for me, of course). I kept putting off updating to 11.04 with fears of breaking the OS again, which is something that has happened for me EVERY SINGLE TIME I HAVE UPDATED TO A NEW VERSION. It has NEVER, and I mean NEVER been a smooth process. So I had my reservations. Reservations aside though, I eventually, a couple days ago, decided 11.04 had been out long enough now that it must be 'ironed out' and a lot more stable. So I updated..... what a freaking mistake...again.

First off, I have huge issues with the Unity desktop. While that is not an actual issue with the system and more of a preference, it's worth stating. The old desktop was completely adequate and most of all... EASY TO UNDERSTAND AND USE. If Ubuntu is targetting windows and apple users, Unity is NOT the answer. Being a user of all 3 OS's I can tell you without a doubt that Unity has been the most difficult to navigate by a longshot.

So luckily there is still what is now called "Ubuntu Classic." After finding out about this via a google search, the excitement was almost too much to contain. Like I said before, I spent MONTHS customizing to my liking so when I saw Unity I just about cried.

Well Ubuntu Classic was a let down. It was NOT the system I had before. All of the little tweaks here and there were gone. It was as if somebody hit a refresh button on the original 10.10 layout. So I began to try and remember what I had changed in the last few months and started with the easy stuff, namely the compiz effects. I open the compiz manager and try to enable the desktop cube and BAM my minimize, maximize, and close buttons are now gone.

I have tried EVERYTHING to get them back and nothing works. I have scoured the forums looking for help and still no luck. All of the topics I found were from May and nobody had any idea how to fix this issue. Well it's now July, going on August and I STILL cannot find help for this. Am I missing something? How can this issue STILL be going on? My Update Manager seems to pop up every freaking milisecond so I know the devs are constantly working on stuff, so where is the fix for this system breaking issue? And for those of you who don't think it's system breaking, try to use Ubuntu Classic with no buttons. It's next to impossible.

That is my biggest issue right now. There are a ton of minor ones but if I can figure this issue out I will be a billion times more happy and better off. I apologize for the vent but it just seems as if this has been a constant uphill battle trying to make Ubuntu work and be stable. Then right when it gets there, they change it and start anew. 

So yea, the buttons thing.... any help? 

SPECS:
Some kind of NVIDIA card, don't remember which one or how to check.
Ubuntu 11.04 64 bit

Any info you guys need, just ask.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2011-07-27
This is a wild shot off into the wilderness because I have no idea if it'd make any difference at all, but have you tried to play around with some theme switching to see if that may trigger a return of the buttons? Even switching them left to right (even if you can't see them) and throwing a variety of themes at it one after another. Probably won't help, but only seconds of time to try.
 
Second, the rant part. I totally get your frustration and agree to some degree with the bugs in the release. However, it's an incremental release between LTS versions. No, that doesn't make it acceptable to have so many bugs, but the LTS versions are better made, tested, etc. With Unity being brand new it seems a stretch for users to just abandon their previous versions and go all in with 11.04 without some degree of expectation that things still need a lot of work. 11.10 will be a much better release since the team has had so much more time to work on Unity, but using 11.04's Unity desktop is like buying the first version of about anything else...you can expect it to not be as great as it could be and later releases will fix most of the quirks.
 
I'm not busting your chops at all on your feelings toward it, just suggesting that bugs are totally expected and we are the testing ground. Report the bug on Launchpad or add that it "affects me too" if there is one already and adapt or overcome as best you can. Beyond that, there's 10.10 and 10.04 that are both great releases and it'll give the devs time to sort out so many issues this release seems to have. I've managed to work around mine so far and I keep an LTS installed because it's rock solid. Not the perfect scenario, but it helps me maintain a bit of sanity.

---

### Post by turtle153 on 2011-07-27
Have you tried using the Reset option in CCSM?
Else you could try setting the theme again in the appearance settings or install [Ubuntu Tweak]("http://ubuntu-tweak.com/") and try the button settings there.

---

### Post by lrgmmc on 2011-07-27
quick question. were you running emerald?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-07-27
> **Iniquit-e said:**
> So yea, the buttons thing.... any help? 

Alt-F2.
compiz-decorator --replace

---

### Post by turtle153 on 2011-07-27
> **CatKiller said:**
> Alt-F2.
compiz-decorator --replace

A restart would to the same as that, and surely the OP has already done this.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2011-07-27
> **turtle153 said:**
> A restart would to the same as that, and surely the OP has already done this.

He doesn't say he has, so it's best not to assume. And a restart wouldn't do the same if the window decorator isn't set to be loaded automatically.

In the meantime, [this]("http://ubuntu4beginners.blogspot.com/2011/05/enable-desktop-cube-in-unity-ubuntu.html") might help.

---

### Post by big.thorny on 2011-09-29
I did the exact same thing. From my brief search online i was able to gather essential that compiz needs work on 11.04 and as a temp fix i just run this command at start-up

metacity --replace

System > Prefs > Startup Applications

so far metacity works as a good substitute

---

### Post by pjd99 on 2011-09-30
I remember this happening when I turned on compiz in Classic.

Enable:
System Settings->CCSM->Effects->Window Decoration


I hate 11.04 as well (and have been struggling with it since May), every time I check Unity it looks and feels more broken than the last time. Stupid beta software in an "official" release.

Ubuntu is fast becoming an OS that is not suitable for power users.

---

### Post by Andrew_nuts on 2012-02-19
None the method is working. I have Ubuntu 11.10. What to do. Each time I have to restart the system each time.

---

