---
title: "v8.04 Graphics Driver (Intel D201GLY2 motherboard)"
date: 2008-07-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thevenerablez on 2008-07-30
Hi,

I'm trying to run Ubuntu 8.04 on my Intel D201GLY2-based system. I have a widescreen monitor and would like to run it at 1680 x 1050, if at all possible. When I select this option in the screen resolution preferences, I get nasty vertical banding spaced about 1 centimeter apart, with grainy pixels separating each band. 

I looked into this and believe I need an SiS964 driver. Does anyone know what this problem is? I would greatly appreciate any help you could give.

Thanks,
Zach

---

### Post by m4c13k on 2008-08-01
Hi,

I`am using this Board with exactly the same resolution as you want. The problem with this vertical banding is known and can be fixed by the following way: 


First you have to change to command line (alt-crtl-F1), log in and open the xorg.conf file with
```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
type your user name as password.

Then you have to add **Driver "vesa"** in the Device section so it's look like:

[INDENT]Section "Device"
	[INDENT][INDENT]Identifier	"Configured Video Device"[/INDENT][/INDENT]
        [INDENT][INDENT]**Driver          "vesa"**[/INDENT][/INDENT]
EndSection[/INDENT]

exit by (ctrl-x) and reboot
```
sudo reboot
```

after reboot you don't have the bars, but a very crappy resolution so you have to install some drivers via synaptic or apt:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y build-essential linux-source libdrm-dev xorg-dev xlibmesa-gl-dev mesa-common-dev xserver-xorg-dev
```

the names of the package can differ a little bit, so i would suggest you to use synaptic.

Now you can install the driver following this way:

1. Follow this link and download the source package, the patches and the xorg.conf file (you will need this).
[http://cs.haifa.ac.il/~skiselev/]("http://cs.haifa.ac.il/~skiselev/")

2. untar the source by typing in the command line
```
mkdir ~/sisp
cp sisp.tar.gz ~/sisp
cd ~/sisp
tar xvf sisp.tar.gz
make clean && make distclean
cd ..

```
3. now patch the source with following commands:
```
cat sisp_xorg_version.patch | patch -p0
```
```
cat disable_internal_ddc.patch | patch -p0
```
4. change to the source directory 
```
cd sisp
```
5.```
./configure --prefix=/usr
```
6.```
make
```
7.```
sudo make install
```

When the installation was successful, copy the xorg.conf into your /etc/X11/ directory:
[INDENT](alt-F2)[/INDENT]
```
gksu gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
and copy the content of the downloaded xorg.conf into this file.

Now you have to change following lines in the screen section, so they looks like this:

[INDENT]Section "Screen"
	[INDENT]Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 661/741/760 PCI/AGP or 662/761Gx PCIE VGA Display Adapter"
	Monitor		"Samsung SyncMaster 710TM"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		[INDENT]Depth		16
		**Modes		"1680x1050" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"**[/INDENT]
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		[INDENT]Depth		24
		**Modes		"1680x1050""1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"**[/INDENT]
	EndSubSection[/INDENT]
EndSection[/INDENT]

Finaly you have to restart your x-server (alt-ctrl-backspace) and the result is a working x-serxer with out this bandings.

You have to notice, that this is not a linux* driver with 3d support, so **eyecandy like beryl or compiz will not work**. I'am try out the drivers from the intel site, but them will not work. Today I will write them a email and ask for drives for _ubuntu-studio 8.04 LTS_. It's the only way i know to get this crappy gpu running on linux, but the results are very very fine.

Further information's about this gpu you can get here:
[http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsispart4.shtml#download]("http://www.winischhofer.eu/linuxsispart4.shtml#download")
and here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=463077]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=463077")

---

### Post by thevenerablez on 2008-08-16
Wow, that was thorough, to say the least. Thanks!

---

### Post by mercomputo on 2008-08-20
In the step 6 

cat disable_internal_ddc.patch | grep -p0

the following errors appears:

grep: opción inválida -- p

why?

---

### Post by m4c13k on 2008-08-20
> **mercomputo said:**
> In the step 6 

cat disable_internal_ddc.patch | grep -p0

the following errors appears:

grep: opción inválida -- p

why?

This was because of the grep. I'am very sorry. I've done some corrections to this mini HOWTO. Now it have to work without problems.

---

### Post by mercomputo on 2008-08-21
after executing the "make" command this errors appears

sis_mergedfb.c: In function 'SiSProcXineramaSelectInput':
sis_mergedfb.c:3359: error: 'SecurityWriteAccess' undeclared (first use in this function)
sis_mergedfb.c:3359: error: (Each undeclared identifier is reported only once
sis_mergedfb.c:3359: error: for each function it appears in.)
make[2]: *** [sis_mergedfb.lo] Error 1
make[2]: se sale del directorio `/home/taller/Escritorio/sisp/src'
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[1]: se sale del directorio `/home/taller/Escritorio/sisp'
make: *** [all] Error 2


Any idea?

Thank you

---

### Post by m4c13k on 2008-08-23
> **mercomputo said:**
> after executing the "make" command this errors appears

sis_mergedfb.c: In function 'SiSProcXineramaSelectInput':
sis_mergedfb.c:3359: error: 'SecurityWriteAccess' undeclared (first use in this function)
sis_mergedfb.c:3359: error: (Each undeclared identifier is reported only once
sis_mergedfb.c:3359: error: for each function it appears in.)
make[2]: *** [sis_mergedfb.lo] Error 1
make[2]: se sale del directorio `/home/taller/Escritorio/sisp/src'
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[1]: se sale del directorio `/home/taller/Escritorio/sisp'
make: *** [all] Error 2


Any idea?

Thank you

can you send the whole make-log please?

Have you installed mesa-common-dev before xserver-xorg-dev?
when not, you have reinstall both drivers. when you do this first install mesa-common-dev and then xserver-xorg-dev.

```
sudo apt-get purge mesa-common-dev xserver-xorg-dev && sudo apt-get install mesa-common-dev %% sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-dev
```

I know, it's a little bit stupid to do this, but this was the only help during my installation...

Than you have to remove your source folder and try out from the fist step :(
I have to compile this drive 10 times until it was able for make install. this driver is not realy the big deal...but it works ;P

---

### Post by spitjo on 2009-07-02
after the make command i get this error
```

make  all-recursive
make[1]: ingresso nella directory «/home/master/sisp»
Making all in src
make[2]: ingresso nella directory «/home/master/sisp/src»
if /bin/bash ../libtool --tag=CC --mode=compile gcc -DHAVE_CONFIG_H -I. -I. -I..    -I/usr/include/xorg -I/usr/include/pixman-1   -I/usr/include/drm -I/usr/include/X11/dri   -g -O2 -MT init301.lo -MD -MP -MF ".deps/init301.Tpo" -c -o init301.lo init301.c; \
    then mv -f ".deps/init301.Tpo" ".deps/init301.Plo"; else rm -f ".deps/init301.Tpo"; exit 1; fi
 gcc -DHAVE_CONFIG_H -I. -I. -I.. -I/usr/include/xorg -I/usr/include/pixman-1 -I/usr/include/drm -I/usr/include/X11/dri -g -O2 -MT init301.lo -MD -MP -MF .deps/init301.Tpo -c init301.c  -fPIC -DPIC -o .libs/init301.o
In file included from init301.h:60,
                 from init301.c:76:
sis.h:1003: error: expected specifier-qualifier-list before 'pciVideoPtr'
make[2]: *** [init301.lo] Errore 1
make[2]: uscita dalla directory «/home/master/sisp/src»
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Errore 1
make[1]: uscita dalla directory «/home/master/sisp»
make: *** [all] Errore 2
```

can u help me plz?
i am running   ubuntu 8.10 and i must run it with widescreen resolution on sis mirage 1...

---

### Post by m4c13k on 2009-07-04
Hm, I have the same problem with Ubuntu Studio 9.04. In the moment I haven't any solution...sorry.

---

