---
title: "16.04 kernel update, then frozen at restart"
date: 2016-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gottier on 2016-10-14
I keep everything updated every day, and today there was a kernel update. So I updated, then I restarted, then the computer is frozen at the login screen. Nothing works, no keyboard, no mouse, etc. So, I used escape key to boot to previous kernel, but don't know what to do to fix the issue. What am I supposed to do, because if I reboot without using grub to go to previous kernel, it just keeps being frozen at login screen.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-10-14
Hello and welcome, Try holding down the **shift **key while your machine is booting this will also display the **Grub menu**, you should be able to choose a older **kernel version,** if you don't see a list of older kernel versions click on **advanced options** there should be a list for you to choose from. Hope this helps

---

### Post by Gottier on 2016-10-14
> **RobGoss said:**
> Hello and welcome, Try holding down the **shift **key while your machine is booting this will also display the **Grub menu**, you should be able to choose a older **kernel version,** if you don't see a list of older kernel versions click on **advanced options** they should be a list for you to choose from. Hope this helps

I got that far. What I wanted to know is what to do after that.

---

### Post by jayers55 on 2016-10-14
Scroll down about three options, to the previous generic ubuntu option.  Boot that.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-10-15
As **Jayers55 **stated you should be able to choose a earlier kernel and boot from that

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-10-15
> **Gottier said:**
> I got that far. What I wanted to know is what to do after that.

Update again, there was an issue with a kernel update over the last day or two, which was solved by a newer kernel being released shortly after. Hopefully that is all you will have to do.

---

