---
title: "[SOLVED] MusicIP Mixer Slimserver Question"
date: 2007-09-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by m9ke on 2007-09-13
I have been running MusicIP Mixer and Slimserver on my Win XP box.  

In transitioning to Ubuntu, I  want to keep a Windows box to use EAC and MusicIP Mixer. (I know these can work with Wine or run on Linux, but I am picking my battles right now).

I am hoping to run Slimserver and store my music on my Ubuntu box. 

Does anyone know where playlists generated by MusicIP Mixer are stored on a Windows box?

Can these playlists be copied over to my Ubuntu box and read in by Slimserver on the Ubuntu box?

Thanks very much!

m9ke

---

### Post by m9ke on 2007-09-19
Worked on this a while, and I will post what I found in case anyone else wants to know.

I have been using a USB disk (named Max_500GB) to hold my music and playlists on my Windows box, and want to move the playlists (and music) from there  to my Ubuntu box's internal drive.  On the Windows box, this disk is called E

On my Ubuntu box, the path to playlists is:```
 /var/lib/slimserver/playlists
```

Where the path on the USB hard disk called Max_500GB to the playlist file called Dixie.m3u  is: 
```
/media/Max_500GB/Playlists/Dixie.m3u
```

and the target for the copy is
```
/var/lib/slimserver/playlists
```

First, I copied the play list called Dixie.m3u from the USB hard disk  Max_500GB using sudo cp like this:
```
m9ke@ubuntu:~$ sudo cp -R /media/Max_500GB/Playlists/Dixie.m3u /var/lib/slimserver/playlists
m9ke@ubuntu:~$ 
```

Then I fired up SlimServer and found that it sees, but can't use, the playlist file I copied over.  Opened up the file and saw that it contains the path to the music as it was defined on the Windows system.  Plus it uses backslashes (\) as separators.

That was all I had time to do today.  The next step will be to correct a couple of paths to the new location of the music files on my Ubuntu box and see if I can get SlimServer to read the playlists.

I will post the outcome, especially if I can get this working.

---

### Post by m9ke on 2007-09-22
OK got this working.  Here is how to make this work.

First, make a copy of your playlist file. For example, my original is named Dixie.m3u, and is so referenced above.  I called the copy I made 2Dixie.m3u.  The purpose of the copy is to protect the original playlist, (i.e., Dixie.m3u) in case something goes horribly wrong.  Put it somewhere you can edit without sudo (i.e., your home directory).

Open up the copy playlist file.  You will see that the paths to the music in it were (totally logically) those that existed when the music was on your Windows system.  

Change the paths to make it work.  Check out  the first line of my playlist below, to illustrate. You'll have to make a similar change to each line in your  playlist.  This is trivial with Replace in gedit.  Note the direction of the slash must change (change \ to /).

Before
```
E:\Music\mp3\Dixie.mp3
```
After
```
/home/m9ke/Music/mp3/Dixie.mp3
```

Again, make sure to do each line in the playlist.  Also make sure the path to your music is correct for your machine.

The only other thing is you have to sudo to write to 
```
 /var/lib/slimserver/playlists
```
I worked around this by sudo cp from my home directory to the proper place.  There are probably lots of ways to work around this.  The location for the playlists is configurable in SlimServer, so it might make sense to store them someplace you can write to as you to avoid sudo-ing for each edit.

Anyway, that's it.  I am listening to this playlist right now.  MusicIP Mixer does a scary good job of scanning your music and making great playlists.  For me, it's worth the trouble to convert them.

Cheers,
m9ke

---

