---
title: "16.04 (Xenial Xerus) Known bugs and work-a-rounds"
date: 2016-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-04-21
This development cycle the only problems I ran into were hardware related:

Toshiba C50-B-02Y
[LIST]
[*]Intel(R) Pentium(R) CPU  N3530  @ 2.16GHz
[*]4 GiB Ram
[*]RTL8101/2/6E PCI Express Fast/Gigabit Ethernet controller
[*]AR9485 Wireless Network Adapter
[*]Atom Processor Z36xxx/Z37xxx Series Graphics & Display
[*]Atom Processor Z36xxx/Z37xxx Series High Definition Audio Controller
[*]TOSHIBA MQ01ABD0 HDD
[*]CDDVDW SU-208FB DVD R/W
[*]RTS5229 PCI Express Card Reader
[/LIST]

Dual UEFI boot Windows 10 and Xenial

Very occasionally locked up, latest kernel 4.4.0-21 has solved the problem

[B]Note: Do not ask for support in this thread. Any support questions will be moved.
If you feel discussion about an issue is needed, please start a thread [here.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=434")[/B]

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-04-21
This isn't about any problems, but it saves on a bit of typing while doing updates I now use the following command to upgrade:

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
```

I created and alias:

```
alias update='sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade'
```

all I do is type **update**, then enter my password.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-04-21
For this version Ubuntu uses SHA2, so some third party ppa's may show a:

```
uses weak digest algorithm (SHA1)
```

error message. For now this isn't a problem, as you can still install updates from those effected ppa's, in future releases this may change.

---

### Post by SantaFe on 2016-04-21
> **cariboo said:**
> This isn't about any problems, but it saves on a bit of typing while doing updates I now use the following command to upgrade:

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade
```

I created and alias:

```
alias update='sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade'
```

all I do is type **update**, then enter my password.

I do that as well.  I also use this:
```

alias Clean='sudo apt-get autoremove && sudo apt-get autoclean'

```

Gets rid of the un-needed stuff. ;)

---

### Post by sammiev on 2016-04-21
> **cariboo said:**
> For this version Ubuntu uses SHA2, so some third party ppa's may show a:

```
uses weak digest algorithm (SHA1)
```

error message. For now this isn't a problem, as you can still install updates from those effected ppa's, in future releases this may change.

Been there and seen that.

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2016-04-22
Bug [#1521302]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/xenial/+source/unity/+bug/1521302") affects gnome-terminal where un-maximising a maximised window doesn't restore it to its original size. This also confuses byobu and tmux at times. The bug is in [s]Unity[/s] compiz. gnome-terminal works fine in Ubuntu GNOME.

I find that I'm now using terminator a little more often.


**Edit:** this bug has been fixed but the fix is still to be released. Hopefully only a week or so away.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-04-22
Hey cariboo, any reason you're not using:

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt full-upgrade
```

... or is 'apt upgrade' the equivalent? I think I'll be using your alias idea. Tnx. :)

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2016-04-22
Xubuntu users will find bug [#1568604]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/1568604") most annoying. Locking of the screen, if using Intel graphics, will cause the mouse pointer to disappear when the screen is unlocked.

The best work around for now is to issue the following keyboard commands:
```
Ctrl-Alt-F1
Ctrl-Alt-F7
```
The bug seems to have been fixed in Debian so hopefully the fix will find its way into Xubuntu soon.

**Edit:** A fix was released to the -proposed repository on 16th August 2016. A fully released fix must now only be days away.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-04-22
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Hey cariboo, any reason you're not using:

```
sudo apt update && sudo apt full-upgrade
```

... or is 'apt upgrade' the equivalent? I think I'll be using your alias idea. Tnx. :)

I haven't needed it yet just using upgrade brings in all the new packages. I also had the developer options set in Software & Updates.

---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2016-04-22
What is the difference between *full-upgrade* and *dist-upgrade*?

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2016-04-22
I find this annoying with suspend. On my HP Pavilion g7 suspend will work if I select it from the main menu. I've also noted that suspend will work from the time out period I've selected in my case 10 minutes. Suspend does not work from close the lid until the 10 minutes has passed from the time I've close the lid which cause extreme heat to my laptop. A work around is to suspend from the main menu before closing the lid.

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2016-04-22
> **rattskjelke said:**
> What is the difference between *full-upgrade* and *dist-upgrade*?

Nothing from what I've noticed.

apt full-upgrade is the same as
apt-get dist-upgrade

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-22
> **rattskjelke said:**
> What is the difference between *full-upgrade* and *dist-upgrade*?
Good question. I've seen the former used with *apt* and the latter used with *apt-get*. But there's also *sudo apt dist-upgrade* which we talked about here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2319347&p=13466525#post13466525](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2319347&p=13466525#post13466525). Note that the *man apt* page makes no reference to *apt dist-upgrade*!

From *man apt*:```
       full-upgrade (apt-get(8))
           full-upgrade performs the function of upgrade but will remove
           currently installed packages if this is needed to upgrade the system
           as a whole.

```
From man *apt-get*:```
       dist-upgrade
           dist-upgrade in addition to performing the function of upgrade, also
           intelligently handles changing dependencies with new versions of
           packages; apt-get has a "smart" conflict resolution system, and it
           will attempt to upgrade the most important packages at the expense of
           less important ones if necessary. The dist-upgrade command may
           therefore remove some packages. The /etc/apt/sources.list file
           contains a list of locations from which to retrieve desired package
           files. See also apt_preferences(5) for a mechanism for overriding the
           general settings for individual packages.

```

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-23
Actually, if I understand correctly, this thread _is not for seeking support of any kind_.

It's meant to have posts in which the poster finds a solution to some aspect of 16.04 and posts _both the problem and its solution_.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-04-23
> **vasa1 said:**
> Actually, if I understand correctly, this thread _is not for seeking support of any kind_.

It's meant to have posts in which the poster finds a solution to some aspect of 16.04 and posts _both the problem and its solution_.

I added a note to the First Post.

---

### Post by Nathal on 2016-04-24
Hello 

Yesterday first installed Kubuntu 16.04 with a bootable USB image. But i got problems [FONT=Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif][SIZE=2][COLOR=#000000]Plasma 5 error (all shell packages missing)[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]

[FONT=Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif][SIZE=2][COLOR=#000000]look it on google (might a bug problem or a wrong program to make a [/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]bootable USB image.

A solution is simpel (You can boot from USB live session 16.04) and have installed from the software center
The Daily build release. That solved my problems.

Seems i'm not the only one. 

Sorry for my English writing. 

Greetings :)
[COLOR=#545454][FONT=arial]
[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by dFlyer on 2016-04-26
> **dFlyer said:**
> I find this annoying with suspend. On my HP Pavilion g7 suspend will work if I select it from the main menu. I've also noted that suspend will work from the time out period I've selected in my case 10 minutes. Suspend does not work from close the lid until the 10 minutes has passed from the time I've close the lid which cause extreme heat to my laptop. A work around is to suspend from the main menu before closing the lid.

Adding HandleLidSwitchDocked=suspend

to /etc/systemd/logind.conf seems to have fixed the problem on my HP or at lease removing #.

---

### Post by BJones007 on 2016-04-28
Have they set time frame for this specific error?

---

### Post by stepheny on 2016-04-30
ONly updated an hour ago and already found two issues!

1) Very serious! Using any nVidia drivers results in a black screen. Solution that worked for me:

*) In the grub menu select the partition you want to boot and the press "e" and then replace 
```
....ro    quiet splash .....
```
with
```
....ro    nomodeset quiet splash .....
```

*) If that boots to the login screen, but keeps returning to the login screen press Crtl + Alt + F2, login, and then run 
```
sudo apt-get purge nvidia.* bumblebee
```

*) Reboot.

2) Not so serious, but surely embarrassing for a LTS. Cannot install third party apps such as Google Chrome. Double-clicking on a .deb installer opens the Software app as expected, but clicking the ‘install’ button does nothing. [A bug report has been lodged for the issue]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-software/+bug/1573206") and explains that the issue: “…only seems to happen with third-party packages; installing a random deb from packages.ubuntu.com/xenial worked.”.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2016-04-30
Instead of using the Software Centre to install downloaded debs, use gdebi instead, it's in the repositories.

---

### Post by stepheny on 2016-05-01
I used 

```
dpkg -i google-chrome-stable_current_amd64.deb
```

But that's not the point, a LTS shouldn't have such issues! And if it does they should be quickly recognised and fixed. 

The nVidia issue is a major problem for many.

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-05-01
stepheny:

Please keep your posts strictly to known issues and work-arounds.  This thread is intended neither for editorials nor for critiques.   You are welcome to make those posts elsewhere in appropriate sub-forums.

---

### Post by stepheny on 2016-05-01
QIII:

I have identified two issues and offered workarounds for both of them. This reply to your critique is my first post here without workaround information! So where is the problem?

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-05-01
> **cariboo said:**
> Instead of using the Software Centre to install downloaded debs, use gdebi instead, it's in the repositories.

Just to add that apt now installs third party .deb packages (which I am quite enthused with). My preference previously was to install gdebi and set deb packages to use it by default but not needed anymore.

```
sudo apt install pathtodebpackage
```

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2016-05-01
Seems there is a bug in network-manager package that detects wireless devices as LAN

```
nmcli -f all device show | sed '/^GENERAL.DEVICE:[ ]\+lo$/,/^$/d; /^AP\[[0-9]\+\]\./d'
``` Command is part of the wireless-info script will show similar to the snipped results from a recent poster

```
GENERAL.DEVICE:                         wlp4s0
GENERAL.TYPE:                           ethernet
GENERAL.NM-TYPE:                        NMDeviceEthernet
GENERAL.VENDOR:                         Intel Corporation
GENERAL.PRODUCT:                        Wireless 8260
GENERAL.DRIVER:                         iwlwifi
```

The workaround for now is to ```
systemctl restart NetworkManager.service
``` after every reboot.  A similar [bug report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1576726)

---

### Post by BJones007 on 2016-05-04
Found this useful for a GNS3 problem I was having [here]("https://gns3.com/qa/upgrading-to-ubuntu-16-04") and [here]("https://gns3.com/support/docs/linux-installation")


> 
It seem that upgrading to 16.04 broke GNS3 if GNS3 is installed from source and not from the package. This is due to major Python version change in Xenial requiring you to reinstall. Clean install from source will work, but we recommend to use the ubuntu package made by the GNS3 team.

First you need to uninstall gns3:

```

pip3 uninstall gns3-gui
pip3 uninstall gns3-server

```

Even if the previous command doesn't work, continue.

Make sure you don't have gns3, gns3server, dynamips, vpcs and ubridge in /usr/local/bin. If something is still here delete it.

After that follow the instruction to install the package


Ubuntu-based distributions (64-bit only)


Run the following commands in a terminal window

```

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:gns3/ppa 
sudo apt-get update 
sudo apt-get install gns3-gui

```


If you want IOU support:


```

sudo dpkg --add-architecture i386
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gns3-iou

```



Hope this helps. Cheers

---

### Post by insane9 on 2016-05-04
> **dFlyer said:**
> Adding HandleLidSwitchDocked=suspend

to /etc/systemd/logind.conf seems to have fixed the problem on my HP or at lease removing #.

Can confirm this works. Thanks! Was a very frustrating issue.

---

### Post by stepheny on 2016-05-04
I don't want to appear rude but what is the point of of this thread? Are we to just list workarounds for failings in 16.04 or is somebody actually looking into fixing these problems?

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2016-05-04
> **stepheny said:**
> I don't want to appear rude but what is the point of of this thread? Are we to just list workarounds for failings in 16.04 or is somebody actually looking into fixing these problems?
For anything I've posted here a bug report has also been raised. A workaround is often required before a fix is released. :)

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-05-04
> **stepheny said:**
> I don't want to appear rude but what is the point of of this thread? Are we to just list workarounds for failings in 16.04 or is somebody actually looking into fixing these problems?


This thread is for just what it says: known bugs and work-arounds.

This forum is populated by users such as yourself.  For bugs to be brought to the attention of Ubuntu developers (who don't hang out here) they must be reported.  The Ubuntu Forums do not act as a bug report mechanism.

---

### Post by ericnotar on 2016-05-05
> **QIII said:**
> This thread is for just what it says: known bugs and work-arounds.

This forum is populated by users such as yourself.  For bugs to be brought to the attention of Ubuntu developers (who don't hang out here) they must be reported.  The Ubuntu Forums do not act as a bug report mechanism.


So here is one bug that is affecting many Lenovo users RTL8723AU  NO WIFI or eratic, I am sure someone is working on it.
I already try all possible solution posted in the forum and sometimes it works sometimes not.
I hope the solution is found very soon.
Thank you very much

---

### Post by nukedathlonman on 2016-05-06
I have an HP Pavilion notebook.  I've filed one bug report on the AMDgpu package - it randomly kicks the video out on "Carrizo" based APU's.  Put the computer to sleep then resume will cause the display to work again for a short bit of time.  If one has it enabled, you can also ssh into the affected machine and operate it remotely from another computer.  There's no errors when the fault occurs, it's just a random black screen.

There's a problem with the Realtek RTL8723BE on numerous makes and models of notebooks with antenna selection, and this affects all Linux distro's.  There is an update that has a fix in GIT hub.  It was easy to compile the driver from git up and add the module to the kernel in 15.10, but due to secure boot and kernel singing it's difficult to work around in 16.04.  The changes are coming in a future kernel release (may even be in the newer kernels by now).

I'm throwing in the towel this weekend and restoring my 15.10 backup copy.  I can get by with the Realtek driver bug, but until AMDgpu is more stable with Carrizo, I have to stick to the older closed AMD Crimson display driver.

---

### Post by ericnotar on 2016-05-06
First tried restarting network manager by running sudo service network-manager restart. It worked but was not a permanent resolution. 

Try this by MBWD in AskUbuntu: create this script at /etc/systemd/system/wifi-resume.service (the one the OP posted only worked for the *active session*; on reboot it had to be called again): 

[HTML]#/etc/systemd/system/wifi-resume.service
#sudo systemctl enable wifi-resume.service
[Unit]
Description=Restart networkmanager at resume
After=suspend.target
After=hibernate.target
After=hybrid-sleep.target

[Service]
Type=oneshot
ExecStart=/bin/systemctl restart network-manager.service

[Install]
WantedBy=suspend.target
WantedBy=hibernate.target
WantedBy=hybrid-sleep.target[/HTML]

Then just issue this command in terminal to activate it: **sudo systemctl enable wifi-resume.service**. 

 This solution, and works both after suspend and after reboot. 
However, even after that was fixed, I get the same behavior that used to happen on wake from suspend when I try to switch wifi networks:  the wifi is essentially dead, with the two arrows, and the applet says "*device not ready*."  I can restart the wifi by issuing sudo service network-manager restart, but I can't switch networks.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2016-05-12
[COLOR=#ff0000]Edit: This is no longer necessary with the release of Xenial Xerus 16.04. See the red below.[/COLOR]

If you find that autoremove wants to only keep the latest kernel. Or even if you boot into a previous kernel autoremove will remove the most current kernel, 
here is a workaround until  [Bug #1440608]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/apt/+bug/1440608") is fixed.

There are 2 important parts to this workaround.
This is not my work but Jarnos's work and it works well allowing 2 kernels to be kept as you would expect it to do.

You could make a backup copy first if you want: **sudo cp /etc/kernel/postinst.d/apt-auto-removal /etc/kernel/postinst.d/apt-auto-removal.bak**
1) Edit and replace **/etc/kernel/postinst.d/apt-auto-removal** with this: (from post #40 on that bug)

```

#!/bin/sh -e 
# Author: Steve Langasek <steve.langasek@canonical.com>
#         Jarno Suni <8@iki.fi>
#
# Mark as not-for-autoremoval those kernel packages that are:
#  - the currently booted version
#  - the kernel version we've been called for, if not removing it
#  - the latest kernel version (determined using rules copied from the
#    grub package for deciding which kernel to boot)
#  - the second-latest kernel version, if the booted kernel version is
#    already the latest to ensure a fallback remains available in the
#    event the newly-installed kernel at this ABI fails to boot. In the
#    common case, this results in exactly two kernels saved, but it can
#    result in three kernels being saved.  It's better to err on the
#    side of saving too many kernels than saving too few.
#
# We generate this list and save it to /etc/apt/apt.conf.d instead of marking
# packages in the database because this runs from a postinst script, and apt
# will overwrite the db when it exits.


eval $(apt-config shell APT_CONF_D Dir::Etc::parts/d)
test -n "${APT_CONF_D}" || APT_CONF_D="/etc/apt/apt.conf.d"
config_file=${APT_CONF_D}/01autoremove-kernels

eval $(apt-config shell DPKG Dir::bin::dpkg/f)
test -n "$DPKG" || DPKG="/usr/bin/dpkg"
# No specific apt config variable for dpkg-query?
DPKG_QUERY="${DPKG}-query"

triggered_version="$1"
if [ -n "$1" ]
then
    regex_argument="$(echo "$1" | sed -e 's#\.#\\.#g')"
    #Check if the kernel given in argument is desired to be removed:
        ${DPKG_QUERY} -W -f='${Package} ${db:Status-Abbrev}\n' |
         grep -Eq '^((linux|kfreebsd|gnumach)-image|linux-image-extra)-'"$regex_argument"' (r|p)H' &&
          triggered_version=""
fi

running_version="$(uname -r)"

version_test_gt ()
{
    local version_test_gt_sedexp="s/[._-]\(pre\|rc\|test\|git\|old\|trunk\)/~\1/g"
    local version_a="`echo "$1" | sed -e "$version_test_gt_sedexp"`"
    local version_b="`echo "$2" | sed -e "$version_test_gt_sedexp"`"
    $DPKG --compare-versions "$version_a" gt "$version_b"
    return "$?"
}
list="$(${DPKG_QUERY} -W -f='${db:Status-Abbrev} ${Package}\n' |
 awk '/^ii  (linux|kfreebsd|gnumach)-image-[0-9]+\./ && $2 !~ /-dbg$/ { print $2 }' |
 xargs apt-mark showauto |
 sed -e 's#\(linux\|kfreebsd\|gnumach\)-image-##')"

latest_version=""
previous_version=""
for i in $list; do
    if version_test_gt "$i" "$latest_version"; then
        previous_version="$latest_version"
        latest_version="$i"
    elif version_test_gt "$i" "$previous_version"; then
        previous_version="$i"
    fi
done

if [ "$latest_version" != "$running_version" ]
then
    # We have at least two kernels that we have reason to think the
    # user wants, so don't save the second-newest version.
    previous_version=""
fi

kernels="$(echo "$latest_version
$triggered_version
$running_version
$previous_version" | sort -Vu | sed -e 's#\.#\\.#g' )"

generateconfig() {
    cat <<EOF
// DO NOT EDIT! File autogenerated by $0
APT::NeverAutoRemove
{
EOF
    apt-config dump --no-empty --format '%v%n' 'APT::VersionedKernelPackages' | while read package; do
        for kernel in $kernels; do
            echo "   \"^${package}-${kernel}$\";"
        done
    done
    echo '};'
}
generateconfig > "${config_file}.dpkg-new"
mv "${config_file}.dpkg-new" "$config_file"

```

2) Create a cron job that will run at startup to perform an autoremove like this: (this is from post #26 and #27 of that bug and also created by Jarnos)
Create this file: **/etc/cron.d/boot-auto-removal** that contains the following:

```
SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin

@reboot   root    /etc/kernel/postinst.d/apt-auto-removal
```

That's it. Upon a reboot, you will be able to keep at least 2 kernels. 

You may also want to add your name to that bug as this has affected every version of Ubuntu back to 12.04.

Edit: the more people on that bug, the more attention it gets.

Also here is the original thread about this: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2251168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2251168)

[COLOR=#ff0000] Edit: If you changed your  **/etc/kernel/postinst.d/apt-auto-removal** file with the above, you could either leave it or replace it with what came out with Xenial Xerus' release:[/COLOR]
```

#!/bin/sh
set -e
# Mark as not-for-autoremoval those kernel packages that are:
#  - the currently booted version
#  - the kernel version we've been called for
#  - the latest kernel version (as determined by debian version number)
#  - the second-latest kernel version
#
# In the common case this results in two kernels saved (booted into the
# second-latest kernel, we install the latest kernel in an upgrade), but
# can save up to four. Kernel refers here to a distinct release, which can
# potentially be installed in multiple flavours counting as one kernel.

eval $(apt-config shell APT_CONF_D Dir::Etc::parts/d)
test -n "${APT_CONF_D}" || APT_CONF_D="/etc/apt/apt.conf.d"
config_file="${APT_CONF_D}/01autoremove-kernels"

eval $(apt-config shell DPKG Dir::bin::dpkg/f)
test -n "$DPKG" || DPKG="/usr/bin/dpkg"

list="$("${DPKG}" -l | awk '/^[ih][^nc][ ]+(linux|kfreebsd|gnumach)-image-[0-9]+\./ && $2 !~ /-dbg(:.*)?$/ && $2 !~ /-dbgsym(:.*)?$/ { print $2,$3; }' \
   | sed -e 's#^\(linux\|kfreebsd\|gnumach\)-image-##' -e 's#:[^:]\+ # #')"
debverlist="$(echo "$list" | cut -d' ' -f 2 | sort --unique --reverse --version-sort)"

if [ -n "$1" ]; then
    installed_version="$(echo "$list" | awk "\$1 == \"$1\" { print \$2;exit; }")"
fi
unamer="$(uname -r)"
if [ -n "$unamer" ]; then
    running_version="$(echo "$list" | awk "\$1 == \"$unamer\" { print \$2;exit; }")"
fi
latest_version="$(echo "$debverlist" | sed -n 1p)"
previous_version="$(echo "$debverlist" | sed -n 2p)"

debkernels="$(echo "$latest_version
$installed_version
$running_version
$previous_version" | sort -u | sed -e '/^$/ d')"
kernels="$( (echo "$1
$unamer"; for deb in $debkernels; do echo "$list" | awk "\$2 == \"$deb\" { print \$1; }"; done; ) \
   | sed -e 's#\.#\\.#g' -e '/^$/ d' | sort -u)"

generateconfig() {
    cat <<EOF
// DO NOT EDIT! File autogenerated by $0
APT::NeverAutoRemove
{
EOF
    for package in $(apt-config dump --no-empty --format '%v%n' 'APT::VersionedKernelPackages'); do
        for kernel in $kernels; do
            echo "   \"^${package}-${kernel}$\";"
        done
    done
    echo '};'
    if [ "${APT_AUTO_REMOVAL_KERNELS_DEBUG:-true}" = 'true' ]; then
        cat <<EOF
/* Debug information:
# dpkg list:
$(dpkg -l | grep '\(linux\|kfreebsd\|gnumach\)-image-')
# list of installed kernel packages:
$list
# list of different kernel versions:
$debverlist
# Installing kernel: $installed_version ($1)
# Running kernel: $running_version ($unamer)
# Last kernel: $latest_version
# Previous kernel: $previous_version
# Kernel versions list to keep:
$debkernels
# Kernel packages (version part) to protect:
$kernels
*/
EOF
    fi
}
generateconfig "$@" > "${config_file}.dpkg-new"
mv -f "${config_file}.dpkg-new" "$config_file"
chmod 444 "$config_file"
```

And if you changed that file and have changed it back, you should delete the file **/etc/cron.d/boot-auto-removal **as well.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-05-20
Toshiba Laptop : appstreamcli maxing out CPU and not able to use apt.

Workaround :
```
sudo kill *appstreamclipid*
cd ~/Downloads
wget https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+files/appstream_0.9.4-1ubuntu1_amd64.deb 
wget https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+archive/primary/+files/libappstream3_0.9.4-1ubuntu1_amd64.deb 
sudo apt install libappstream3*.deb 
sudo apt install appstream*.deb
```

---

### Post by banceu_sergiu_ione on 2016-05-27
Toshiba L50D-C-18x AMD 8700P R6  ( windows 10 / ubuntu 16.04 *2 days old install )

Wi-Fi connection droping

product: RTL8821AE 802.11ac PCIe Wireless Network Adapter
driver: rtl881ae

I had manage to change the module driver parameters and set */int_clear=N and the connection does not drop anymore ( ~12hrs passed since ).

Anyway the driver looks to not function properly but it keep the connection up 

[LIST]
[*]turn off/on the wireless from keyboard ( FN+F12 *in my case ) make the wifi only to switch on Airplane mode on/off and it not really switch off the hardware. 
[*]after the switch on from keyboard the device it connects back but the wifi icon is shown as the connection is wired and the wifi network it not shown in menu anymore 
[/LIST]

Terminal:

```
 grep [[:alnum:]] /sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/* 
```

output:

/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/debug:0
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/disable_watchdog:N
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/fwlps:Y
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/int_clear:Y
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/ips:Y
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/msi:Y
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/swenc:N
/sys/module/rtl8821ae/parameters/swlps:N

run:

```
 echo "options rtl8821ae int_clear=N" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/rtl8821ae.conf 
```

REBOOT

check if the parameter had been changed after restart = yes.


This is what I got so far. At least the network connection don't drop anymore and for now I will avoid the wifi switch off/on.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2016-06-10
If anyone did the kernel autoremoval change I mentioned above, it is not necessary now with the release of Xenial. 
I wanted to test it with a fresh release and today the 3rd kernel came though and it lets you keep 2 kernels now.

See above if you made the changes I posted.

regards

---

### Post by damianfanaro on 2016-07-17
Hi,
In my case, the work around was to unload and load again the 'rtl8xxxu' module after every reboot.
Here is the command:
```
sudo rmmod rtl8xxxu && sudo modprobe rtl8xxxu
```

I'm running Linux Mint 18 (Sarah) - Kernel 4.4.0-21-generic.
Laptop: Lenovo Yoga 13

On previous Kernel versions I had to install the driver (rtl8723au) manually.

I hope this issue to be fixed on future Kernel releases.

---

### Post by timgood on 2016-09-07
Many Ubuntu and derivative users with Logitech webcams are having problems with 'chipmunk' voices on Skype. This is caused by a kernel regression bug and has been reported. A temporary fix is to add "usbcore.autosuspend=-1" to /etc/default/grub on the line commencing GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT. This line now looks like this in my version (yours may differ): ```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash usbcore.autosuspend=-1 nomodeset video=uvesafb:mode_option=1920x1080-24,mtrr=3,scroll=ywrap"
``` After you have made and saved the changes, open a terminal and ```
sudo update-grub
```. After a reboot Skype will work normally. USB devices will not suspend, so will stay 'awake' on full power, which is why this is only an interim fix. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by ltrtiger2 on 2016-09-17
> **SantaFe said:**
> I do that as well.  I also use this:
```

alias Clean='sudo apt-get autoremove && sudo apt-get autoclean'

```

Gets rid of the un-needed stuff. ;)

Nice tip/shortcut. Thank you both!

---

