---
title: "Annoying image shifting"
date: 2010-12-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mabarian on 2010-12-18
Hi people. Just installed Lucid Lynx 10.04. I have an Nvidia GeForce 6150LE. I have installed the lastest private controllers (v.185). Mi native resolution (which works perfectly in windows) is 1440x900@75Hz. However, in Ubuntu, the only resolution working perfeclty is 800x600. Of course, 1440x900 is available, and 1280x1024 and a lot more, but the result is always the same:

**_the image shifts to the right like 10cms_**

With the monitor buttons is imposible to fix (it only shifts the image 6 cms to the left, until the vertical white line). The button autoset doesn't fix anything. I tried to modify the xorg.conf to adding some refresh frecuencies, but computer doesn't recognize them.

What's next, I have no idea. Google doesn't tell me anything. I'm about desist using ubuntu. Thank you people. I know you can help me to solve this. Sorry about my English.

**The most curious thing is:** when I was installing ubuntu, there were a moment the image was at 1440x900 perfectly displayed in the monitor, but automatically made an autoset and then, shift until now.

There's a view of my xorg.conf (my modifications at BOLD):

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 22 11:44:23 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HP w19"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6150 LE"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1440x900_75 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
	Modes		**"1440x900_75" "1440x900_72" "1440x900_60"**
    EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by mabarian on 2010-12-19
Come on people, I don't want to uninstall ubuntu!! :(  thanks!

---

### Post by cipherboy_loc on 2010-12-19
If this is a desktop that you are using, or if this is an external monitor (with a laptop), press the auto-alignment button on the monitor. On mine, it is a button with a plus symbol on it (BTW, it's a Dell monitor). It might be called auto-adjust. It depends on the make/model of the monitor.

---

### Post by mabarian on 2010-12-19
> **cipherboy_loc said:**
> If this is a desktop that you are using, or if this is an external monitor (with a laptop), press the auto-alignment button on the monitor. On mine, it is a button with a plus symbol on it (BTW, it's a Dell monitor). It might be called auto-adjust. It depends on the make/model of the monitor.

Sorry, but did you read the post? Like I said, autoset doesn't do anything. And the monitor, is just the normal monitor of a PC (not laptop or external).

I'm starting to believe that the problem is in the VGA wire. **Is it possible? **Maybe the plug&play pin is damaged or whatever.
Thank you for posting.

---

### Post by mabarian on 2010-12-22
Ok people, now the problem is solved

just bought a new one
[IMG]http://img684.imageshack.us/img684/174/trollface.png[/IMG]

---

