---
title: "(8.10) no volume control gstreamer..."
date: 2008-12-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vampist on 2008-12-15
I am getting a lovely message from my computer.

"no volume control gstreamer plugins and or devices found"

I am not exactly sure what sound card I have.. The annoying part is that I know how to check on windows but not ubuntu Ha..

It's an on-board card on a dell dimension 3k Intel pent 4. Hope that helps.

Any tests that will help you with information that you would like me to run 
I will gladly do.

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by ettercap on 2008-12-15
u can check ur sound card in 
" system>administration>hardware testing "

have u checked in sound preferences n all sometimes its muted !!

---

### Post by vampist on 2008-12-15
> **ettercap said:**
> u can check ur sound card in 
" system>administration>hardware testing "

have u checked in sound preferences n all sometimes its muted !!


Ok.. ah Well I'm not sure it would give  me the error if it was just muted =P

---

### Post by vampist on 2008-12-16
Sys > pref > sound > sound tests

Sound Events gave me:
"audiotestsrc wave=sine freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink: Failed to connect stream: Invalid argument"

Music and movies gave me:
"audiotestsrc wave=sine freq=512 ! audioconvert ! audioresample ! gconfaudiosink profile=music: Failed to connect stream: Invalid argument"

---

### Post by vampist on 2008-12-16
I don't usually do this.. Knowing it's sort of a no no on forums.
(triple post)

but I really would enjoy sound ha.. Anyone got any fixes for this?

---

### Post by vampist on 2008-12-16
Ok I guess I need to be a pain to get any help here..


HELP PLEASE... NEW TO UBUNTU NO Idea What to do..:mad::mad:

---

### Post by supershin on 2008-12-16
Try these steps, taken from link below.

[http://www.seopher.com/articles/how_to_fix_the_no_sound_in_ubuntu_7_10_on_a_laptop_or_notebook](http://www.seopher.com/articles/how_to_fix_the_no_sound_in_ubuntu_7_10_on_a_laptop_or_notebook)

System->Preferences->Sound

Load up preferences and make sure that each item is checked to appear in the mixer. Make sure none of them are muted.

Then click on the "Switches" tab. At the bottom of the list is an "External Amplifier" switch. Toggle that to off, you should now have sound.

Why?
What that's doing is telling Ubuntu not to supply sound to the headphone jack or to the laptop's speakers because it's expecting an external amplifier to be connected. There's no explanation as to why this is true and I don't think I know anyone who has an amp connected to their laptop.

---

### Post by abn91c on 2008-12-16
> **vampist said:**
> Ok I guess I need to be a pain to get any help here..


HELP PLEASE... NEW TO UBUNTU NO Idea What to do..:mad::mad:

open terminal type aplay -l
if you get some message about a sound device then do sudo modprobe snd-your souncard
example mine is:
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: OPL3SA23 [Yamaha OPL3-SA23], device 0: CS4231 [Yamaha OPL3-SA23]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
follow this guide to setup you ssound after that.[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=205449)

---

### Post by vampist on 2008-12-17
> **supershin said:**
> Try these steps, taken from link below.

[http://www.seopher.com/articles/how_to_fix_the_no_sound_in_ubuntu_7_10_on_a_laptop_or_notebook](http://www.seopher.com/articles/how_to_fix_the_no_sound_in_ubuntu_7_10_on_a_laptop_or_notebook)

System->Preferences->Sound

Load up preferences and make sure that each item is checked to appear in the mixer. Make sure none of them are muted.

Then click on the "Switches" tab. At the bottom of the list is an "External Amplifier" switch. Toggle that to off, you should now have sound.

Why?
What that's doing is telling Ubuntu not to supply sound to the headphone jack or to the laptop's speakers because it's expecting an external amplifier to be connected. There's no explanation as to why this is true and I don't think I know anyone who has an amp connected to their laptop.


1. There is no switches tab.
2. In the little box where it's suppose to list the devices. There is nothing.
3. I am unsure of my sound card. is there a command that should tell me the sound card (if it is installed)
Which It should be I was on 8.10 before, with sound just fine. The only difference is that I went from 6.06 > 7.xx > 8.04 > 8.10, instead of a straight install of 8.10.

Also this might have something to do with it not sure. but when I start up I go through the whole thing you know loading all that. Get to the login screen and I can't type or move the mouse. UNTIL I push print screen / sysrq then a black screen with green bars running a crossed it pops on the screen then goes back to the login page like nothing happened THEN I can type.



EDIT:

"
aplay -l
aplay: device_list:215: no soundcards found...
"

" cat /proc/asound/card0/codec#* | grep Codec
cat: /proc/asound/card0/codec#*: No such file or directory
"

---

### Post by abn91c on 2008-12-17
follow the link i posted earlier it guides you with all the terminal commands you need to revive your sound card. It worked when i needed to revive an old ISA card in my other 10 yr old PC

also sudo lspci -l will show you your hardware, post the results here, someone may be able to better help you

---

### Post by vampist on 2008-12-17
sudo lspci -mm

"Multimedia audio controller" "Intel Corporation" "82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) AC'97 Audio Controller" -r02 "Dell" "Device 019d"

So it detects it. I followed that link and it gives me another link that is confusing me. it talked about drop down links and such that aren't at the link it says.


I need the driver for that sound card.

---

### Post by abn91c on 2008-12-17
> **vampist said:**
> sudo lspci -mm

"Multimedia audio controller" "Intel Corporation" "82801EB/ER (ICH5/ICH5R) AC'97 Audio Controller" -r02 "Dell" "Device 019d"

So it detects it. I followed that link and it gives me another link that is confusing me. it talked about drop down links and such that aren't at the link it says.


I need the driver for that sound card.

start where it said **General help-Start here**...., stop at "**saving sound Settings" **

---

### Post by vampist on 2008-12-18
Got an error from:
sudo module-assistant a-i   alsa-source

the loading bar did not reach 100% =/

So should I now follow instructions and post a new thread?

Log " for i in control postinst postrm ; do \                                    &#8593;
 &#9474;         if [ -f debian/$i.orig ]; then \                                   &#9646;
 &#9474;         mv -f debian/$i.orig debian/$i ; \                                 &#9618;
 &#9474;         fi ; \                                                             &#9618;
 &#9474;         done                                                               &#9618;
 &#9474; rm -f control-munge                                                        &#9618;
 &#9474; make mrproper                                                              &#9618;
 &#9474; make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/modules/alsa-driver'                 &#9618;
 &#9474; rm -f .depend *.o snd.map*                                                 &#9618;
 &#9474; rm -f /*.ver                                                               &#9618;
 &#9474; rm -f modules/*.o modules/*.ko                                             &#9618;
 &#9474; make[2]: Entering directory `/usr/src/modules/alsa-driver/acore'           &#9618;
 &#9474; make -C ioctl32 mrproper                                                   &#9618;
 &#9474; make[3]: Entering directory `/usr/src/modules/alsa-driver/acore/ioctl32'   &#9618;
 &#9474; rm -f .depend *.[oas] *.ko .*.cmd .*.tmp *.mod.c *.isapnp                  "

The build error

"
 &#9474; Build of the package alsa-source failed! How do you wish to   &#9474; 
       &#9474; proceed?  
"

---

### Post by zazkia on 2008-12-30
Have the same problem, on a MSI, sound card is detected so that is not the problem. 
(shins sound preferences test is now hanging as it cannot reach the stream.)

Volume used to work at 8.10, the problem is in some of the updates i recently did, i think there was a kernel update so so my guess would be
that it is a similar problem to: 

[http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_8.04/Issues/No_Sound_After_Distribution_Upgrade](http://linux.dell.com/wiki/index.php/Ubuntu_8.04/Issues/No_Sound_After_Distribution_Upgrade)

Seems to look like the solution would be somewhere in that neighbourhood?

edit: 
Hah, new evidence and sound here. The "solution" being to downgrade to the 2.27 kernel instead of the 2.29. A bit depressing solution but hey, I can watch dvds again.

---

