---
title: "where are the directory files?"
date: 2013-04-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sidewalkcynic on 2013-04-17
I have constructed a complex directory system for personal documents with Nautilus, and I want to make a copy of the system.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-04-17
So what is your problem?

---

### Post by sidewalkcynic on 2013-04-17
I am looking for the text, or xml, or whatever file it is, for the directory system I constructed with the Nautilus GUI?

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-04-17
Hi sidewalkcynic.

Unfortunately, nautilus generates no such thing.

We can help you construct that if you want.

Here's a couple of commands that can help you:
```
find  /path/to/top_directory  -type d

ls  -R  |  grep   \:
```
Also, there is a very nice graphical way to see it, but you have to install a package:
```
sudo  apt-get  install  tree
```
Then, to the the tree structure:
```
tree  -d  /path/to/top_directory
```
```
tree 

```
Does that help?

Let us know If you need more help copying or mirroring the tree structure.
Regards.

---

### Post by sidewalkcynic on 2013-04-17
Thanks, but I was really hoping there was a list-like file generated by the browser. Perhaps the Tree app can be used to verify the tree-list that I use, but with the links that are added.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2013-04-17
> **sidewalkcynic said:**
> Thanks, but I was really hoping there was a list-like file generated by the browser. Perhaps the Tree app can be used to verify the tree-list that I use, but with the links that are added.
You can hope, but the unix file system does not work that way. Directories are just files with different attributes and programs like nautilus don't need to keep their own data structures to manage them. They just look at the file system.

---

