---
title: "10.10 to 10.04"
date: 2012-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-05-05
Is there an easy way to go back from 10.10 to 10.04 - via some terminal commands or is it best to do a re-install?  10.10 is no longer supported but there is approx a year to go with 10.04.  I have a mix of family and friends machines - some are on 11.10 and 12.04 but some want to keep their gnome 2 desktop. (Those that don't have widescreens find the Unity launcher a pain - especially 12.04 where it is fixed).  I have looked at gnome classic and Mate which are in the right direction but I might as well as go back to 10.04 which is exactly what the 'cutomer' wants. Hopefully in a years time Mate might be a bit further down the line.  Appreciate any advice re going back to 10.04.

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-05-05
> **Quarkrad said:**
> Is there an easy way to go back from 10.10 to 10.04 - via some terminal commands or is it best to do a re-install?
You need to do a fresh install I'm afraid.

> Those that don't  have widescreens find the Unity launcher a pain - especially 12.04  where it is fixedIf you go to Settings > Appearance > Behaviour you can set the dash to auto-hide.

> I have looked at gnome classic and Mate which are  in the right direction but I might as well as go back to 10.04 which is  exactly what the 'customer' wants.Have you seen this page which may help you set up Gnome classic how you want it.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370)

I know what you are saying about wanting to use a supported version, but if you *can* use 12.04 then it is supported on the desktop for 5 years for the first time; meaning your customers wouldn't have to change again until 2017.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-05-06
Thank you - this could be the answer.  The 'customers' of mine who want to stay with gnome 2 tend to be the more elderly of family members and don't see the neeed to change - things like the Dash and repositioning of menus is not intuative to them, they get lost.  I have had a look at:

If you go to Settings > Appearance > Behaviour you can set the dash to auto-hide

but am struggling wth the Defined Hot Spot.  I've played around with the radio buttons but nothing seems to work.  The Super key reveals the launcer but that will only confuse.  It was better on 11.xx, providing you had Widescreen - which some do not have so it was a pain.

---

