---
title: "10.04 to 10.10 upgrade caused whine in power supply fan"
date: 2010-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by blueyin on 2010-11-17
My power supply fan is intermittently making a high pitch whine when my computer is mostly idle after an upgrade from 10.04 to 10.10. 

The whine starts a few seconds after the 10.10 log on screen. The whine will happen whenever the computer is idle, so for instance if I am listening to Pithos (pandora client) it doesn't whine, but if i stop using pithos and just surf it will start whining. 


To test to see if I was imagining this I tried out both the 10.04 and 10.10 OS on flash drive. The 10.10 made my PSU whine, the 10.04 flash drive did not. 

The PSU also does not whine on Windows 7.  


I have identified that the sound is not coming from my 2 nexus 120 ultra silent case fans, my fanless GPU, or my hard drives. 

Psu in question is Nexus value 430. 


Does anyone know why this is happening? 

Does anyone know if there is a energy usage difference between .04 and .10? 

All help and assistance is welcome. 

Thanks! 

Specs:
Intel i5
gigabyte p55 mobo
7600 gpu fanless
1tb WD black

no overclocking

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2010-11-17
The odds of this being OS related are almost non-existent.

Perhaps this is a coincidence....

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-17
We can argue all day whether this is "OS-related" -- but all you have to do is a quick search in the forums for folks complaining about overheating or fans running all the time -- and it becomes clear that there IS something going on in 10.10 that affects some machines more than others.

And, oh, BTW, when you're surfing the net, your machine is NOT idle.  You're running software and transferring data both into and outof your PC using a network -- and that's when you're NOT watching a YouTube video!

IF it were my machine, I would install some temperature/CPU-usage monitoring SW to see if there is a greater demand running 10.10.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-11-17
> 
 temperature/CPU-usage monitoring SW to see if there is a greater demand running 10.10
conky is good for this but you can get the info via the command line with
```

top

```for cpu usage and what is using it
and
```

acpi -v

```for temperature :-)

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2010-11-17
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> We can argue all day whether this is "OS-related" -- but all you have to do is a quick search in the forums for folks complaining about overheating or fans running all the time -- and it becomes clear that there IS something going on in 10.10 that affects some machines more than others.

And, oh, BTW, when you're surfing the net, your machine is NOT idle.  You're running software and transferring data both into and outof your PC using a network -- and that's when you're NOT watching a YouTube video!

IF it were my machine, I would install some temperature/CPU-usage monitoring SW to see if there is a greater demand running 10.10.

There is a difference between "a fan running all the time" and "a power supply whining". The first might be different for a different OS, the second sounds like an imminent hardware failure.

We could probably use a clearer explanation from the OP.

---

### Post by Ancanus on 2010-11-17
> **Hippytaff said:**
> 
```

acpi -v

```for temperature :-)

Should be 

```

acpi -V
```

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2010-11-17
> **Ancanus said:**
> Should be 

```

acpi -V
```

yes it should - Capital V :-)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-11-17
> **Slim Odds said:**
> There is a difference between "a fan running all the time" and "a power supply whining". The first might be different for a different OS, the second sounds like an imminent hardware failure.

We could probably use a clearer explanation from the OP.

Exactly.

An OS has **no** direct control at all over a PSU, it can only draw more or less power from the PSU by operating the hardware the PSU powers - and the PSU itself regulates how much noise it may make to keep itself cool.

---

