---
title: "F5d7050 rt2570"
date: 2010-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shade82000 on 2010-05-12
Hi.
 
Is anyone able to give me clear instructions on how to get the RT2570 drivers compiled and set up in 10.04 so the my F5D7050 will work?
 
There are some vague instructions elsewhere on the internet but nothing I do seems to work. Everything suggested throws error messages.
 
I just need a link to download the right sources and the relevant commands to get it compiles and set up.
 
Cheers.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-05-12
It would be helpful if you post a link to the instructions you are following, what you have done up to now, and what error messages you are getting.

---

### Post by shade82000 on 2010-05-16
HI...I'm very sorry, I should have posted the error messages.  I think I am trying to get ahead of myself though because some drivers already seem to be loaded.  I was trying to follow the guide at:

[http://www.linux.com/news/enterprise/networking/8259-making-wireless-work-in-ubuntu](http://www.linux.com/news/enterprise/networking/8259-making-wireless-work-in-ubuntu)

I entered: 'sudo lsmod | grep rt2" because it was the RT2570 driver which I need (or the newer RT2x00 driver).  The output was:

rt2500usb              19643    0 
rt2x00usb              11260    2 rt73usb,rt2500usb
rt2x00lib                32133    3 rt73usb,rt2500usb,rt2x00usb
led_class                3732     2 p54common,rt2x00lib
mac80211              238128  4 p54usb,p54common,rt2x00usb,rt2x00lib
cfg80211              148386    3 p54common,rt2x00lib,mac80211

When I run ifconfig it returns lo and eth0.

When I run iwconfig it returns lo, eth0 & pan0.  All say "no wireless extensions."

When I run lsusb one of the lines returned is:
Bus 001 Device 004: ID 050d:7050 Belkin Components F5D7050 ver 1000 WiFi

According to the guide above, the output of lsmod means the drivers are loaded and I am assuming that the output of lsusb means the OS can 'see' the hardware.

But there is  no wlan0 device in the notification area or in the Network Connections applet.

The other thing is that it works out of the box in 9.10.

What would be the next step or the next thing to try, if the drivers are apparently there?

If its not possible, if the RTxxxxx drivers in 10.04 have changed then can you recommend the best USB adapter for Ubuntu?  One that will still work in 10.10 as well?!

Thanks for your help in adwance...


I have really enjoyed 9.10 and kept saying that when 10.04 comes out I  will do away with Windows altogether, but I keep having to boot Windows  just to get a net connection, which is not very convenient.  I think  that in this age, broad network hardware support should be at the heart of any OS development, allowing any user to 'just get on the internet.'  That's what most users want to do these days and I think the idea of installing Ubuntu and having immediate network connectivity is a very important thing.

---

### Post by shade82000 on 2010-05-19
I'm sure I once read something about a USB wireless adapter that was 'guaranteed to work with Linux.'
 
Please can someone tell me what the adapter is?
 
I didn't want to give up and buy a new adapter, I really wanted to try and get this fixed but I'm lost now.
 
I just figure that buying a 'certified' USB adapter is more sensible than going back to Windows 7.
 
I would really appreciate help.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-05-19
> **shade82000 said:**
> I'm sure I once read something about a USB wireless adapter that was 'guaranteed to work with Linux.'
 
Please can someone tell me what the adapter is?
 
I didn't want to give up and buy a new adapter, I really wanted to try and get this fixed but I'm lost now.
 
I just figure that buying a 'certified' USB adapter is more sensible than going back to Windows 7.
 
I would really appreciate help.

Talk to the manager at the store and alk if you can test the adapter before you buy or return it if it does not.

Locally there is a computer repair shop that dabbles in Linux, so I ask them if they have any products (which is how I got my current wireless).

Otherwise you need to use Google. Try Asus :

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessCardsSupported)

[http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Devices/USB](http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Devices/USB)

---

### Post by shade82000 on 2010-05-25
Hi again...cheers for that info, I will keep it in mind.

I dont want to be beaten by this USB stick though...

After some more investigation it seems that it is not actually any of the RTxxxxxx drivers that I need.

I set up a dual boot with 9.10 (where the USB still works well) so that I can still get on the internet, and I tried to remove the drivers one at a time using modprobe -r.

When I removed rt73usb, rt2500usb & rt2x00usb nothing happened.

But when I removed p54usb the wireless stopped working.

I then restarted the p54usb driver and the USB worked fine again after re-plugging it.

I then tried the same on 10.04 but it still wouldn't see the wireless, even though it lists the USB stick when I do a lsusb.


Does this mean I have a Prism chipset and not a Realtek?

Are there different drivers for p54usb in 10.04 and would it be possible for me to get the drivers used in 9.10 from somewhere?

---

