---
title: "8.10 AD-hoc wireless connection to xp"
date: 2009-10-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ThinAir11 on 2009-10-03
Hey everybody, for last two days i been trying to connect to my xp machine which has wep secured ad-hoc wireless host enabled, however, i get no success, and it is really frustrating. 

Here is my set up:

Laptop that runs ad-hoc is windows xp with intel 3945abgn card. This laptop is connected with internet cable straight to modem.

wep open authentication 
ip 169.254.60.57
netmask 255.255.0.0
dns1 194.19.2.11
dns2 194.19.3.11

I am connecting from a laptop with Backtrack 4 pre final and intel 5100 card, which is based on ubuntu 8.10. I know, i might get an answer from ubuntu community to go there, but overthere people not really willing to help.

I tried using network manager (which i know sucks, and i uninstalled it). I tried Wicd, with manual ip configuration, and with auto (dhcp)... no success what so ever. Then i tried doing hand by hand through terminal, but it did not go well either.
I have tried quite a few variations through terminal.

sudo ifconfig wlan0 down
sudo dhclient -r wlan0
[SIZE=2]**sudo ifconfig wlan0 **[/SIZE]169.254.60.111[SIZE=2][B] netmask *255.255.0.0* up
sudo route add default gw [/B][/SIZE]169.254.60.57
sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid "spot1"
sudo iwconfig wlan0 mode Managed (i have also tried mode ad-hoc)


i also tried

sudo ifconfig wlan0 down
sudo dhclient -r wlan0
sudo ifconfig wlan0 up
sudo iwconfig wlan0 essid "spot1"
sudo iwconfig wlan0 key s:my key (s: needed for ascii keys)
****Additional Comand that may be needed  -- sudo iwconfig wlan0 key open  <<<----See note below
sudo iwconfig wlan0 mode Managed (also tried ad-hoc)
sudo dhclient wlan0
no success either.


May someone shed some light, because it is really frustrating.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-10-03
I don't have an answer, but a suggestion.  Why not disable wep and get it working, then move on to the wep stage, so you can debug one issue at a time.  Also, the XP machine will need additional configuration to route traffic from one interface to the other and act as an access point.

---

### Post by ThinAir11 on 2009-10-04
Well, as far as access point, i can connect from win7 to xp machine, so why would it need some additional traffic routing for linux? 

Now, i did as you said, i did try to connect to unsecured ad-hoc, wicd said it is connected, however... at 0%... so i got no internet access. Now, as far as connecting through wicd, i think i know what might be wrong. It tries to connect in managed mode. Is it possible to configure wicd to use ad-hoc instead of managed mode? i tried nano /etc/init.d/wicd but found nothing.

From command line i never got CELL with managed mode, however i do get cell, if i use "mode ad-hoc". I also tried putting wlan0 in ad-hoc, and then use wicd... but it automatically switched to managed.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-10-05
> **ThinAir11 said:**
> Well, as far as access point, i can connect from win7 to xp machine, so why would it need some additional traffic routing for linux? 


You would need to have turned on internet connection sharing and routing, which it appears you have.  As far as making an ad-hock connection, this is as much help as I can give:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Adhoc](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Adhoc)

---

### Post by ThinAir11 on 2009-10-06
Yeah, internet sharing and **ics** is enabled on xp machine...

thanks for the link i will take a look.

---

