---
title: "11.10 Live CD Broke Windows... Help!"
date: 2011-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mr.W on 2011-11-20
Hi everyone,

I wanted to try out Ubuntu on a Toshiba Satellite L350-20H with Vista.
So I downloaded the newest version 11.10, burned it to CD, ran it & it looked like it all worked fine. 
I did not install Ubuntu, just ran it from the Live CD.

After shutting down the Ubuntu Live CD, Windows did not start.
All what I got was something like:

directory c: /boot Empty
error 0xc00000000F

How do I get Windows to start again?

---

### Post by blackmail on 2011-11-20
Hello,
Please try [this]("http://neosmart.net/wiki/display/EBCD/Repairing+the+Windows+Vista+Bootloader") link.
Here you should find the software and the necessary instructions to recover from the error. Dunno why this happened to you, anyway i just got someone rid of the whole Vista/W7 OS and recovery boot partition, and they live a happy life without it :)
try the Ubuntu image next time with a stick, it should not cause anymore problems.
If there is something more please write back and I will do my best to help.
Regards,
Blackmail

---

### Post by Mr.W on 2011-11-20
Hi Blackmail,

Thanks for the reply!

I tried EasyBCD, but still don't get much further.
All I get now is something like:

windows failed to start. a recent hardware or software change... blablabla

File: \windows\system32\winload.exe

Status 0xc000000e

Info: The selected entry could not be loaded because the application is missing or corrupt.

---

### Post by Mr.W on 2011-11-20
... and in case it helps... 
when I run the LiveCD I can see the \windows\system32\winload.exe file is there.

---

### Post by ewz on 2011-11-20
Hello I don't see how a live CD can damage your Windows partition , are you sure you didn’t go into your windows partition while you were in the Ubuntu Live CD? The Live CD does give you access to your Windows partition so you can mistakenly change or move files around in there.

Did you change your boot order in the Bios by any chance?
Also were there any Windows Updates that were installed by chance before you booted into the Ubuntu Live CD ? This actually happened to me once, I decided to let the windows updates install before rebooting Booted into the CD fine but when booting back into Windows it wouldn't work. It was an issue with the updates not the Live CD. 

Try and think what were you doing in Windows before you rebooted
hope this helps :)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-11-20
Try using Boot-Repair.  Instructions are in the link below:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair")

---

### Post by ki4jgt on 2011-11-20
How many hard drives do you have (including restore drives)

---

### Post by Mr.W on 2011-11-20
> **ki4jgt said:**
> How many hard drives do you have (including restore drives)

1 hard drive with 3 partitions (boot, windows, data)

---

### Post by Mr.W on 2011-11-20
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> Try using Boot-Repair.  Instructions are in the link below:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair")

thanx!

after running boot repair windows still won't start, but the error message changed to something like this:

windows failed to start. a recent hardware or software change... blablabla

Status: 0xc000000f

Info: The boot selection failed because a required device is inaccessible.

---

### Post by Mr.W on 2011-11-20
> **ewz said:**
> I don't see how a live CD can damage your Windows partition

i'm still shocked/confused/speechless myself!


> **ewz said:**
> Did you change your boot order in the Bios by any chance?

yes, to start the live cd i had to put the cd drive first.
but i changed it back...


> **ewz said:**
> were there any Windows Updates that were installed by chance before you booted into the Ubuntu Live CD ?

windows does all kinds of dumb stuff, even you tell it not to... but i did not see any update activity before using the live cd.


thanx though!
how did you get yours to run again?

---

### Post by ewz on 2011-11-21
> **Mr.W said:**
> i'm still shocked/confused/speechless myself!




yes, to start the live cd i had to put the cd drive first.
but i changed it back...




windows does all kinds of dumb stuff, even you tell it not to... but i did not see any update activity before using the live cd.


thanx though!
how did you get yours to run again?

I was able to use the recovery tools within the hidden partition om my laptop and restored it back one day, though i had made a recovery disk when I purchased the Laptop 

have you tried tapping the F8 as soon as you turn the computer on ? 
From what I know about Toshiba Satellites if you hold down the 0 key (zero)
and turn on the computer I think that will get you into the recovery utilities, I don't think there are many options though ,I know resetting to factory default is one but you will loose all your personal data by doing that. You can use the Live CD to move your personal files to another Partition first though.

hope this helps :)

---

