---
title: "18.04 file sharing problem.."
date: 2018-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pat4 on 2018-04-28
Two computers - one desktop running 18.04 and one laptop running 16.04.   Both on 16.04 till yesterday and I was able to share files between the two using Samba. 

Updated the desktop to 18.04, set up Samba for file sharing. Gave permissions to relevant folders (via right-click- properties - local network share).  Laptop can see and access desktop folders but shared folders on laptop are
not visible or accessible on desktop.

Seems to be a problem with the desktop setup as nothing has changed on laptop. 

Another facet that might be relevant is that I cannot get the Samba GUI to show...  I have installed Samba and run the system-config-samba command.    The GUI doesn't appear in installed software list..

Had a similar problem once before when the problem turned out to be a  missing file at   /etc/libuser.conf.    Today I have run      "sudo  touch /etc/libuser.conf "    and the file is installed.   Still no access  to desktop files from laptop.

Any and all help appreciated... Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-04-28
I've never used a GUI for samba-anything. GUIs are missing too many capabilities for my needs.   I don't know, but the 18.04 release notes say they changed the CIFS version to 3.0, which could break samba connections. Definitely review the release notes. Google will find.

If that doesn't help, posting the output from **testparm** would be helpful.

If you have 2 Unix systems, is there a reason you aren't using the native sharing that NFS provides?

---

### Post by pat4 on 2018-04-28
Thanks for your reply..
I can manage without the GUI - I just find it easier. Any capabilities it lacks are not a problem for me. All I want to be able to do is to be able to access certain folders (Downloads, Pictures, Documents, Music) from any machine on my home network.  Setting up simple Samba shares has always served my purpose and seems reliable - until now...
I can't sort out a testparm output for now as I am away from the machine..

i'm not using the native NFS system as one of the machines is a Windows machine and it is my understanding that the system is Unix based only (?)

Regards,

---

### Post by yancek on 2018-04-28
It's possible to use nfs with windows although if you've used Samba and it worked not much point in switching.  Might make a difference which version/release of windows you are using for nfs.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-04-28
> Updated the desktop to 18.04, set up Samba for file sharing. Gave  permissions to relevant folders (via right-click- properties - local  network share).  Laptop can see and access desktop folders but shared  folders on laptop are
not visible or accessible on desktop.[B]
The Bad News[/B]: Network Discovery .... excuse me .... Netbios Host Discovery - the kind of thing Windows used to do - is broken in Ubuntu 18.04.

**The Good News**: In an all Linux or Linux / macOS network it works better than it ever has.

18.04 does something automatically that 16.04 did not. You can make 16.04 do it by following these steps:

 Create a file at **/etc/avahi/services/samba.service** with this content on your 16.04 box:

     ```
<?xml version="1.0" standalone='no'?>
<!DOCTYPE service-group SYSTEM "avahi-service.dtd">
<service-group>
   <name replace-wildcards="yes">SMB %h</name> ## Display Name
   <service>
       <type>_smb._tcp</type>
       <port>445</port>
   </service>
</service-group>
```[COLOR=#0000cd]
This will "publish" your samba server to the  rest of the network - but it's only discoverable to other Linux boxes  or MacBooks. 

[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]What started off as a rant ended up a mini howto of sorts if you are interested in more detail: [/COLOR][[COLOR=#000000]Bionic Beaver can not discover samba hosts - netbios. [/COLOR]]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2384959")

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-04-28
Yep, if Windows is involved, then samba is probably the best choice.  NFS on Windows feels like a hack, IME.
You can run both, but I probably wouldn't in your shoes.

Anyone know if they fixed the samba performance issues when configured through a GUI as compared to the usually great performance from manually configuring the smb.conf file in /etc/samba/?

---

### Post by pat4 on 2018-04-29
Thanks for all the replies... good news and bad.

If I have to, I could lose the Windows laptop from the network. So long as I can get the Ubuntu laptop to connect I could manage.

However, my intention was to upgrade the laptop to 18.04 in the next week. If I am then going to compound the problem then there isn't much point. 

I also have a music server that runs on a version of Linux that I have - until now - been able to connect to in order to back up the contents. I discovered last night that I cannot
connect to that from the 18.04 machine now.   

It seems my easiest solution is to revert this machine back to 16.04 - which at least works - until someone with more knowledge than me sorts out the problems.

I do have to say though, that I am a little dissapointed that the software has been released with such a significant flaw, given the preponderance of home networks these days. 
It's the sort of thing expected of Micro$oft but I didn't expect it in the Linux field.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-04-29
If you have ssh running on the systems, then you can access them remotely and backup the files. ssh is the primary way that Unix people manage Unix systems.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-04-29
> It's the sort of thing expected of Micro$oft but I didn't expect it in the Linux field.         
Funny story .... Microsoft faced the same dilemma a few years ago with the exact same problem on Windows 10. This was fixed before Win10 shipped.
> However, my intention was to upgrade the laptop to 18.04 in the next  week. If I am then going to compound the problem then there isn't much  point. 
Like I said in the linked to post:
> So what we end up with in 18.04 is a file sharing system that if you  didn’t know any better appears to be specifically designed for and works  best with an all Linux network.                 
If all of your machines are running 18.04 all of this is automatic. Well .. you have to install samba first.
> I also have a music server that runs on a version of Linux that I have -  until now - been able to connect to in order to back up the contents. I  discovered last night that I cannot
connect to that from the 18.04 machine now.   
Does that mean the samba.service file on that machine didn't work?

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-04-29
Hmm, I gave up with Samba about 15 years ago.  It is just too complicated.  The book is 2 inches thick and I have actually read it cover to cover way back when.

By contrast, configuring a NFS server is 2 lines.  One line on the server and one line on the client.  Windows also supports NFS - free download:
[https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/saponsqlserver/2011/02/03/installation-configuration-of-windows-nfs-client-to-enable-windows-to-mount-a-unix-file-system/](https://blogs.msdn.microsoft.com/saponsqlserver/2011/02/03/installation-configuration-of-windows-nfs-client-to-enable-windows-to-mount-a-unix-file-system/)

However, even the two lines of NFS is too much for lazy me, so I settled on using SSH with scp for everything.  Nowadays Windows 10 also does SSH, so life is good.

---

### Post by pat4 on 2018-04-29
Thanks again all.. I clearly have some reading to do in the next few days...

Morbius1 -  I did take in what you said regarding Linux machine, both running 18.04 working OK but that still leaves me the problem of the music server. 
The music server is Brennan B2.  Usually, once it is powered on it appears in my home network. I usually access it by a simple click of the folder icon. Tried it again today after rebooting etc.. and all I can say is that the 18.04 machine "could not connect to the BrennanB2 server". 
Tried several times and even tried accessing it using the smb4k software.  I don't know what version of Linux is running on the box but I do know it is Linux powered. 
i will give a lot of consideration to what has been suggested and hope for a quick fix on the Netbios Host Discovery problems..

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-04-29
> The music server is Brennan B2.  Usually, once it is powered on it  appears in my home network. I usually access it by a simple click of the  folder icon. Tried it again today after rebooting etc.. and all I can  say is that the 18.04 machine "could not connect to the BrennanB2  server". 
What happens when you change the default in your Linux client to NT1?

Or just run this command to see of you can get a list of it's shares:
```
smbclient -L brennanb2 -mNT1
```
[COLOR=#0000cd]*You will probably have to install smbclient if you didn't follow my HowTo.*[/COLOR]

Do you get a listing?

---

### Post by pat4 on 2018-04-29
Morbius1... Solved the problem (at least one of them I think)..  Brennan have now introduced a software patch that allows the unit to be used as NAS - Network Attached Storage. Didn't find out about it till this afternoon when going through their website.  Turned that on and I can now access the Brennan from the 18.04 box.  Easy to access it via smb4k share..

If, as you say, connecting to another 18.04 box is better than before then I shall go ahead, and convert the 16.04 box to 18.04.   As I said I can lose the older Windows laptop off the network as I rarely use it anyway. 

I did run the command specified in your last - I had installed smbclient - and the Brennan is listed there. 

Thanks for your help. Greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Axis Mann on 2018-06-02
I tried sharing files with 18.04 using samba.  I've been using samba for years to share files between separate linux boxes.  I was using security = share.  However, with ubuntu 18.04 I discovered that the security=share option in smb.conf doesn't work any more. 

 Somewhere along the way, security=share became an error and was no longer accepted.  I switched to security = user with ubuntu = 14.04 I think.  Using server role = standalone, security=user is the default.  I used the options guest account = owner and map to guest = bad user to allow anyone to access the public share as the owner which I gave permission using the options on the tab in the File (aka nautilus) file properties for the file to be shared. 

Owner is a user on the system and there is an entry in the samba password file for owner.    That works ok but I don't like the modal dialogue that pops up and ask me if I want to connect anonymously or as a registered user with password because I don't use passwords.  I already clicked on the share once, it's a guest share, no I don't want to enter password, but I have to click connect before I get connected.  That's not much to complain about but I do so anyway.  

However, I ran into another issue where the computer running 18.04 shows up twice in the nautilus Network place on my other machine running Ubuntu 14.04.  I couldn't get that to stop without turning off zero configuration networking (Avahi) on the 18.04 box.  But I didn't like that either because I don't know what all needs those Avahi services to work properly.

  Most recently, I discovered something called personal file sharing on ubuntu 18.04 implemented with the gnome-user-share package.  That doesn't use samba.  If you got samba installed, that's not the thing I'm talking about now.  The personal file sharing uses something called web-dav (whatever that is).  That got rid of the duplicate entry for the 18.04 box and eliminated that extra dialogue I was seeing after the switch to security =user from security=share.

  But, I don't know if personal file sharing (using web-dav) will allow me to share my 18.04 machine's files  with a windows computer.   I haven't tested for that yet.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-06-02
Axis - blocks of text are too hard to read. Whitespace is really helpful.

---

### Post by MZ250Supa5 on 2018-06-16
I to am suffering from these silly issues with Samba. For so long it's been a simple matter to set up shares that just work, but no longer it seems. I'm on Ubuntu Mate 18.04 and did a fresh install and as per usual installed samba and caja-share and it should have just worked. However I can't see any other machine from the 18.04 box and I'm also getting the double entry of this machine on the other machines sharing the network that are running an older version of Ubuntu. 

I'd love to use NFS as I'm told that it's the best way of sharing between Linux machines, and most of the machines on my network are Linux, apart from a few Android devices which I believe can also share on NFS. However, when I've looked at the various tutorials I've found purportedly guiding people through the setup, I have found myself totally confused as they are just impenetrable and full of jargon and vague instructions that are of little help to those of us who aren't au fait with the technical shorthand.  I'm no slouch when it comes to using Linux, but supposedly 'simple' tutorials seem to be anything but. I'm guessing it's the way that these tutorials are written rather than what is written in them, I just wish I could get my head around one of them and successfully set it up and then I'd write my own tutorial that mere mortals can understand. I guess what I'm requesting here is lots of hand holding, something I'm guessing that most of those who are now Linux experts once received, as most of us just aren't self-starters when it comes to technical things and if these things are explained in a different way to us it can often become very clear to us. However, having Samba apparently 'broken' in this way is a major pain.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-06-16
I was using Samba to copy shared data from my Ubuntu desktop to my XP laptop when I traveled.
Then Windows updates, firewall updates, and my own upgrades to Ubuntu every 6  months made resetting Samba an issue.

I put Ubuntu on laptop and changed to NFS just to copy shared data from desktop to laptop & back again. So I made both servers.  Others have later told me that for my limit use, that ssh would be all I need, but I have NFS working & scripted.

I do a new install & install the NFS software and add the necessary configurations using scripts & then use scripts to actually mount &  copy with rsync all my data.

Over time my network has changed as different router vendors have used different defaults. I keep old as I found it may change again.
Since from my scripts, I do use variable & command inside script do not need sudo. First few times I was just manually copying data (what is in the quotes) & using sudo to manually install NFS. I use same paths in each system, but then have to have a slightly different mount point to tell them apart.
```
#NFS setup
#/mnt/data 10.0.0.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)
#/mnt/shared 10.0.0.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)
fname_exp=/etc/exports
#nfs1="/mnt/data   192.168.1.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)"
#nfs2="/mnt/shared 192.168.1.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)"
nfs1="/mnt/data   10.0.0.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)"
nfs2="/mnt/backup 10.0.0.0/24(rw,no_root_squash,async)"

```
I may have notes to myself with # (comment) to remember why something changed
```

# For NFS /etc/exports already edited rpcbind replaced portmap 12.04
apt-get install nfs-kernel-server nfs-common rpcbind
dpkg-reconfigure rpcbind
exportfs -a
# still portmap?
#service portmap restart
```

The above scripts are snippet from a much larger script.
This is my full script to mount desktop from laptop.

```
#!/bin/bash

# ! not 
if [ ! -d /mnt/data_DT ]; then
     mkdir /mnt/data_DT
fi
 
# ! not 
if [ ! -d /mnt/backup_DT ]; then
     mkdir /mnt/backup_DT
fi
 
#sudo mount 192.168.0.20:/mnt/data /mnt/data_DT
#sudo mount 192.168.0.20:/mnt/shared /mnt/shared_DT
sudo mount 10.0.0.2:/mnt/data /mnt/data_DT
sudo mount 10.0.0.2:/mnt/backup /mnt/backup_DT

```

Now from Nautilus I can see my /mnt/data on laptop and still from laptop see /mnt/data_DT on desktop.
```

#!/bin/bash
# run Mount_NFS.sh first
rsync -aruvP /mnt/data_DT/Documents /mnt/data
rsync -aruvP /mnt/data_DT/hardware /mnt/data
# plus many more lines for each folder
```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-06-17
MZ250Supa5 - you should open your own thread.  "Me too" inputs are seldom the same with the OP's issues.

I've been using Samba and NFS for decades. NFS supports native file permissions and is a little faster for me than Samba/CIFS.  I do not have any 18.04 systems today, but there are comments about defaults in Samba changing in 18.04 in the release notes.

I mount the same storage, to the same location, on the specific machines where I want it available.  I do not make NFS shares available to an entire subnet, since there might be unknown devices there and NFSv3 security is 99% based on uid/gui and IP addresses.

The big picture for NFS is easy.
* uid/gid need to match between the client and server.   Those are the numbers, not the names. 1000 = 1000, 1001=1001, you get the idea.  It only matters for uids that have files on the NFS storage.   For security reasons, root/sudo don't work on NFS files.
* The server "exports" the specific directory, with specific options, to specific machines. /etc/exports is where the config is located. Here is an example from that shares my Calibre library to a nextcloud server with a read-only mount.
```
/D/ebooks/Library       nextcloud(ro,async,root_squash)
``` I manage the IP addresses on the network so hostnames (nextcloud) can be used for all local systems.
* The client can mount the NFS shares multiple ways - /etc/fstab is popular, but I like to use autofs because it handles network failures nicer. This is a line in the /etc/auto.nfs file on the "nextcloud" server.
```
/B -fstype=nfs,soft,intr,ro,async,vers=3   istar:/D/ebooks/Library
```
autofs can handle all sorts of mounts. CIFS, Samba, Local (great for USB devices) and NFS.
*istar* is the hostname for the server.
*nextcloud* is the hostname for the client.
The client and server find each other by hostname anywhere on the network, i.e. IP name resolution works here.  Lots of huge issues can be totally avoided by having IP name resolution working for the entire network. 

NFSv4 is more complicated and uses server-to-server Kerberos authentication.  Encryption is also part of that standard, so setting up the trusts between the clients and servers is a necessarily more complex.

I mount NFS storage to /D, /Data, /DD, /M, /R, /B, .... you get the ideas.  Short, but to the same place.  I only use /mnt/ for temporary needs usually when I'm dealing with storage as an admin. This is part of the file system hierarchy standard and what my Unix admin mentors taught.  I never use /media/ mounts and prevent automatic mounting of storage due to security considerations.

Remember if you modify the NFS config on the server-side, then the service needs to be restarted (or force the service to re-read the config files by sending the -HUP signal to it).  If the server config changes, the client-side needs to be reloaded or if the client-side config is modified, obviously.  

Once setup, NFS is transparent.  It doesn't show up as a special mount or different location in any GUIs.  It is just another directory.  I've worked a few places where NFS was how our HOME directories where made available on many different computers.

NFS is system-to-system storage, not user-to-system like CIFS.  Admin rights are necessary on both the client and the server to make it work.  OTOH, correctly mounted NFS feels like local storage to end-users.  They don't often care that the storage is NFS and no programs that aren't run as root will care either.  If the same admin controls both the client and server, a case could be made to allow remote root full control, but I've never done that due to all the bad things that could happen.  Compartmentalization is a standard thing on my network.  Access that isn't required, isn't provided.

I don't use NFS over wifi, except with soft, read-only mounts.  I've never looked at using NFS with android. But I use NFS with Kodi on a few raspberry pis and it works much better than cifs/samba.  Samba is known to have issues with streaming media.

There are how-to guides for both NFS and  autofs here (help.ubuntu.com), but those try to handle every possible situation which gets complicated quickly.  The best way to learn these non-trivial things is to ask your local LUG for help, then show up to a meeting and get 1-on-1 help directly.  Then you have a responsibility to pay that help forward. That's why I'm here and I suspect that is why most of the others trying to help are here too.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-06-17
> **MZ250Supa5 said:**
> However I can't see any other machine from the 18.04 box ...
I have already answered this in this topic. See post #5 about adding an avahi service file to all of your older Ubuntu machines.
> ...and I'm also getting the double entry of this machine on the other machines sharing the network that are running an older version of Ubuntu.
There are two ways a Linux samba server can announce itself to the rest of your network:

** The old netbios way which is what Windows used to use.

** The new multicast way ( avahi ) which Linux and macOS use.

Ubuntu 18.04 is the first Ubuntu LTS release that will do both simultaneously. I agree it's confusing but either one will work. You can disable either one in smb.conf if you want.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-06-17
Avahi is good for home networks that have a few IoT devices (which almost always run Linux).  Avahi is an implementation of the "zeroconf" protocol. [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avahi_(software)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Avahi_(software)) has a nice overview explanation.

If you use avahi, the network name will be {hostname}.local, so if the hostname is istar, then the avahi name will be "istar.local".  You can modify the avahi config to make the "domain" part almost anything you want. ".lan" is popular. Might want to modify every avahi device to use the same suffix (TLD).

When avahi was first pushed into the distros, it had some flaws.  Those early issues appear to have been solved for a few releases (4+ yrs) now.  Ever once in a while, I have issues with mDNS/Avahi on new systems. The easy fix for me is to purge avahi/mDNS and integrate the new system with the rest of my existing network name resolution and IP management setup.  

If you'll never have more than a few computers and a few video players, I would stick with avahi.  But if you will have 4+ computers and a home "lab" for any of a bunch of other reasons, proper IP and name resolution will make life easier in the long term.

---

### Post by meox2 on 2018-08-06
Hey Guys,

i've same Problem but in the other direction.
My Mainsystem has installed Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Upgraded from 17.1).

I use Cinnamon desktop this time with nemo as fileexplorer, but the Problem is under standard ubuntu desktop with nautilus the same.
My Mainmaschine see shares and hosts on the network, but no host see my Ubuntu 18.04 on their network.

And its realy strange, i've no "share to network" option in the contextmenu of an folder to share it.
Ok i take system-config-samba an i can define a share, but its not publish to the network.

I worked arround since one week, with a lot of posts, workarrounds and Tips from other Forums, but nothing helps.

Has anybody some experience with this constellation ? please help 

best regards meo


```
testparmLoad smb config files from /etc/samba/smb.conf
rlimit_max: increasing rlimit_max (1024) to minimum Windows limit (16384)
WARNING: The "syslog" option is deprecated
Processing section "[printers]"
Processing section "[print$]"
Processing section "[Share]"
Loaded services file OK.
Server role: ROLE_STANDALONE


Press enter to see a dump of your service definitions


# Global parameters
[global]
    bind interfaces only = Yes
    client max protocol = NT1
    dns proxy = No
    interfaces = 127.0.0.0/8
    log file = /var/log/samba/log.%m
    map to guest = Bad User
    max log size = 1000
    obey pam restrictions = Yes
    pam password change = Yes
    panic action = /usr/share/samba/panic-action %d
    passwd chat = *Enter\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *Retype\snew\s*\spassword:* %n\n *password\supdated\ssuccessfully* .
    passwd program = /usr/bin/passwd %u
    server role = standalone server
    server string = %h server (Samba, Ubuntu)
    syslog = 0
    unix extensions = No
    unix password sync = Yes
    usershare allow guests = Yes
    idmap config * : backend = tdb




[printers]
    browseable = No
    comment = All Printers
    create mask = 0700
    path = /var/spool/samba
    printable = Yes




[print$]
    comment = Printer Drivers
    path = /var/lib/samba/printers




[Share]
    create mask = 0777
    directory mask = 0777
    guest ok = Yes
    guest only = Yes
    path = /home/meo/Downloads
    read only = No



```

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-08-06
My only question is why Samba?  Of all possible ways to share files, Samba is the worst.

You can set up NFS with one single lonely line in the /etc/exports file:
/home        192.168.0.1(rw)

See this:
[https://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/NFS-HOWTO/server.html](https://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/NFS-HOWTO/server.html)

Seriously, setting up NFS is so easy, you will look at the documentation and then scratch your head and wonder where is the rest - well, there isn't any.

---

### Post by meox2 on 2018-08-06
Thanks HermanAB...this works fast and simple....
but i need smb for my win clients, and normalize 18.04 must be SMB able, or not  ?.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-08-07
Windows natively supports only Samba and FTP, although an NFS client can be downloaded and installed.

People don't like FTP, because it is insecure.  However, Samba and NFS are both insecure also!

If you want a very easy file share system for a small office, or home use, then you can make a FTP server.  It works with everything:
[https://www.aeronetworks.ca/2017/02/simple-file-server.html](https://www.aeronetworks.ca/2017/02/simple-file-server.html)

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-08-07
[COLOR=#0000cd]*Totally unrelated Fun Fact*[/COLOR]: This notion that Samba is inherently insecure is actually a wee bit more complicated than it was say 10 or 15 years ago.

A modern samba server is set to "enable" encrypted transport which means it will encrypt file transfer if necessary if agreed to during the negotiation phase with the client but it is not not required. But you can make it required by setting a parameter to make it mandatory.

When you do that and connect to it from a client using a modern operating system where the SMB dialect used is SMB3 ( win8/10, macOS, or Ubuntu 18.04 ) the file transfer will be encrypted.

When Win10 accesses the Linux samba share transport will be encrypted. The output of "sudo smbstatus" on a Linux Samba Server: [ATTACH=CONFIG]280670[/ATTACH]

It wouldn't work with a Linux samba client until Ubuntu 18.04 because before that the smb dialect was forced to SMB1.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-08-07
> **HermanAB said:**
>   However, Samba and NFS are both insecure also!


The real issue with FTP is that people make it available over the internet.  CIFS and NFS are almost NEVER available over the internet.

Security is usually not that simple. For NFSv3 and earlier, security was  based on IP addresses for the hosts and clients, so if the NFS communications was only allowed between servers on a physically secured subnet, not shared by desktops, the risks were effectively mitigated.  NFS has always been server-to-server meaning the admin(s) for both systems need to agree to setup the required trust.

With NFSv4, Kerberos authentication AND AES256 encryption considered strong enough for internet connections was added.  These were added in 2000. NFS remains server-to-server, unless a client-ticket is configured.  [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NFSv4Howto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NFSv4Howto) 

There are many other file sharing methods available depending on whether local or internet and which clients need support.
* CIFS/Samba
* NFS v3 or v4
* sshfs / sftp / scp / rsync
* Nextcloud / Owncloud / SeaFile / proprietary offers (web-based security, which has some big flaws)
* Or running any of these over a full VPN like IPSec (libreSwan) or OpenVPN.

I think the real issue with Samba security is that older clients often force old security settings that allow relatively easy access to network credentials.  If all clients can run Win10 levels of security AND the samba server settings are tightened to that level, it is probably more secure than NFSv3, but not v4.  I still wouldn't allow CIFS over the internet, at least without a full VPN.  

IMHO.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-08-07
Win10 now finally has SSH also.  So one could set up sshd and natively connect from Win10 with sftp, but not from Win7.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-08-07
> **meox2 said:**
> Thanks HermanAB...this works fast and simple....
but i need smb for my win clients, and normalize 18.04 must be SMB able, or not  ?.
I didn't realize you updated your previous post:

Erm ...

[1] Edit /etc/samba/smb.conf

[2] Delete these lines:
> 
bind interfaces only = Yes
interfaces = 127.0.0.0/8
Then save the file and restart samba in this order:
```
sudo service smbd restart
sudo service nmbd restart

```

If that doesn't take care of it by itself edit smb.conf again and add these two lines under the workgroup = WORKGROUP line:
```
name resolve order = bcast host lmhosts wins
netbios name = ubuntuserv

```
THen restart samba again.

You don't need those last two lines for Linux-to-Linux samba access - in fact you don't need netbios, name resolve, workgroups, master browsers, etc.. or any of the other things that used to drive samba users crazy - but you may need it for Windows - at least Windows prior to Win10.

Side note: You might want to change your share definition from this:
> [Share]
    create mask = 0777
    directory mask = 0777
    guest ok = Yes
    guest only = Yes
    path = /home/meo/Downloads
    read only = No
To this:
```
[Share]
    guest ok = Yes
    path = /home/meo/Downloads
    read only = No
    force user = meo
```

---

### Post by meox2 on 2018-08-08
Hi Morbius1,
thanks for your Comment and workarround.
I've made the changes, but no effect, the host ist not visible for Win Clients (7,10) and my Rasp with OSMC.

Please, when you have minute look my smb.conf maybe you see anything is incorrect ...
> **Morbius1 said:**
> I didn't realize you updated your previous post:

Erm ...

[1] Edit /etc/samba/smb.conf

[2] Delete these lines:

Then save the file and restart samba in this order:
```
sudo service smbd restart
sudo service nmbd restart

```

If that doesn't take care of it by itself edit smb.conf again and add these two lines under the workgroup = WORKGROUP line:
```
name resolve order = bcast host lmhosts wins
netbios name = ubuntuserv

```
THen restart samba again.

You don't need those last two lines for Linux-to-Linux samba access - in fact you don't need netbios, name resolve, workgroups, master browsers, etc.. or any of the other things that used to drive samba users crazy - but you may need it for Windows - at least Windows prior to Win10.

Side note: You might want to change your share definition from this:

To this:
```
[Share]
    guest ok = Yes
    path = /home/meo/Downloads
    read only = No
    force user = meo
```

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-08-08
Nope. Nothing wrong with your smb.conf.

On the Win10 box access the Linux box by ip address ~~ \\192.168.0.100
 If it doesn't connect can you ping the Linux box by ip address from Win10?

You do have your firewall disabled on the Linux box right?
```
 sudo ufw disable
```

---

### Post by meox2 on 2018-08-08
No Firewall active. Ping is OK WIN10-->Ubuntu . NFS from rasp-->Ubuntu works.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-08-08
I have no explanation unless your smbd service is not running:
```
sudo service smbd status
```
If it is running .....

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-08-08
Hmm, Samba is nice when it works, but there are so many settings and options and different features for different versions of Windows and they keep adding more, that to my mind, it is just not worth the hassle.

---

### Post by meox2 on 2018-08-08
&#9679; smbd.service - Samba SMB Daemon
   Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/smbd.service; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
   Active: active (running) since Wed 2018-08-08 21:06:19 CEST; 2min 20s ago
     Docs: man:smbd(8)
           man:samba(7)
           man:smb.conf(5)
 Main PID: 23840 (smbd)
   Status: "smbd: ready to serve connections..."
    Tasks: 4 (limit: 4915)
   CGroup: /system.slice/smbd.service
           &#9500;&#9472;23840 /usr/sbin/smbd --foreground --no-process-group
           &#9500;&#9472;23843 /usr/sbin/smbd --foreground --no-process-group
           &#9500;&#9472;23844 /usr/sbin/smbd --foreground --no-process-group
           &#9492;&#9472;23845 /usr/sbin/smbd --foreground --no-process-group


Aug 08 21:06:19 meo-Aspire systemd[1]: Starting Samba SMB Daemon...
Aug 08 21:06:19 meo-Aspire systemd[1]: Started Samba SMB Daemon.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-08-08
Can't help you.

When you absolutely positively have nothing better to do you might want to:

** Boot into the install media for Ubuntu 18.04 so that you are in a "Live" session - "Try Ubuntu".
** Install samba:
```
sudo apt install samba
```
** You don't really have to create a share but if you do add it to smb.conf directly.

Then try to access this Live session 3 different ways from Win10 - note: in a Live session your host name is ubuntu:

\\by-ip-address
\\ubuntu
\\ubuntu.local

If you haven't created a share you will at least see the $print share.

I just did this on my network and I can connect from Win10 and every other system I have ( Linux, macOS ) all three ways without making any adjustments to smb.conf

---

### Post by meox2 on 2018-08-08
Hi Morbius,
i change the router.
i see no hostnames but now i can connect via \\hostname \\IP  and i found my share. and can connect.  
thanks a lot for your time.
:guitar:

---

