---
title: "19.10 Gnome 3.34.1 - HELP PLEASE"
date: 2019-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by billkent on 2019-12-30
All, overall issue is I have no way to control screen brightness, the keyboard brightness commands work as designed.

information: Asus Zenbook Pro Duo laptop running the latest Nvidia driver stack.  I have tried all methods to control brightness:
[LIST]
[*]Function keys(F4/F5) work when the function key lock is off (work meaning the brighness slider pops up on the screen and is controllable, but has no impact on the screen brightness)
[*]Same is you control it from within the Ubuntu settings or Gnome Tweaks settings
[/LIST]

I've searched for other posts on this topic but cannot find anything relevant.  

Please advise on possible fixes or point me to other posts if you are aware of one.

Thanks,

---

### Post by maczo on 2020-03-19
Any progress? After I upgraded to 18.04 my brightness controller stopped working.

---

### Post by cellsite60 on 2020-03-19
A quick little work-around could be done with gamma.
I have an old Dell Optiplex machine i play around with and i usually set it to tone down the gamma at login.

You can do it with this in terminal: ```
xgamma -gamma 0.8
``` (I use 0.8)

Gamma values must be between  0.100 and 10.000

This only work per session, if you want it to be persistent you can do that by opening up Startup Applications, choose Add and put xgamma -gamma 0.8 in the Command field and press Add again, done!

Hope it helps a little.

---

