---
title: "9.04 Persistent on Flash Drive &quot;Checking Battery State&quot; hang."
date: 2009-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mike02 on 2009-05-09
Greetings!

So, I'm having troubles with a bug that I've seen reports and advice for, but never quite close enough to my situation to solve it. I've been trying to set up Jaunty on my 16GB flash drive to run it as a portable OS with persistence (mostly to run on my main XP desktop and other XP boxes), following this method:
 
[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/usb-ubuntu-904-persistent-install-windows/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/usb-ubuntu-904-persistent-install-windows/)

(and used a 4GB casper-rw loop file)

Everything runs just fine after booting from the flash drive, except that I cannot seem to find a way to install GPU drivers for the NVIDIA 7900 GS that it will be running on at my primary PC, because whether I use the open source drivers through Ubuntu, proprietary drivers from NVIDIA, or even EnvyNG, I am unable to do it without either killing X server (sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop) as root, or telling the prompt that it is okay to reboot, both of which leave me at the "Checking battery state..." hang. 

I tried to install the recommended open source drivers as well as trying to use EnvyNG, and neither of those seem to be working after a shutdown-reboot (it still won't allow any advanced graphics features or enabling desktop effects), and I can't even try to install the newest proprietary drivers from NVIDIA, because I can't kill X server without throwing it into the "Checking battery state..." hang. 

If there is no way around this, then I suppose I can live with this the way it is, but it would be awfully nice to be able to install graphics drivers (and possibly sound and others which I haven't bothered with yet because graphics are more of a big deal for now) and to do simple common things like rebooting and relogging without running into hangs that require a hard shutdown.

The desktop PC hardware that I'm trying to configure/optimize this for, and boot on, is:

(Normally running XP Pro)
Intel Core 2 Duo 6600 2.4GHz x2 (x86)
NVIDIA GeForce 7900 GS
2GB RAM

Not that it matters, but the flash drive is a Patriot Xporter XT 16GB.

I've searched for the answer for about 8 hours over the last two days, but just can't seem to find anyone with a case similar enough to mine to be able to pull a solution out of it. Any help would be greatly appreciated! :)

Cheers, 
Mike

---

### Post by Mike02 on 2009-05-09
Any thoughts or ideas? Am I expecting something to work that isn't going to work?#-o

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-05-09
> **Mike02 said:**
> Greetings!

So, I'm having troubles with a bug that I've seen reports and advice for, but never quite close enough to my situation to solve it. I've been trying to set up Jaunty on my 16GB flash drive to run it as a portable OS with persistence (mostly to run on my main XP desktop and other XP boxes), following this method:
 
[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/usb-ubuntu-904-persistent-install-windows/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/usb-ubuntu-904-persistent-install-windows/)

(and used a 4GB casper-rw loop file)
.........

Create a separate EXT3 partition labeled "casper-rw" and see what happens.

---

