---
title: "10.10 battery life on aspire one"
date: 2010-11-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by basbuntu on 2010-11-11
Hi all, 

did a fresh install of maverick recently and it runs like a charm on my aspire one (zg5)

but my battery life dropped 1,5 to 2 hours in comparison to 10.04..

i have googled and roamed the forums for about a week now but to no avail, so time to ask... 

does anyone have ideas/tips what to do? :confused: 

i have set it all up almost the same as i had 10.04 so it's all kind of a mystery to me....
(have powertop running btw)

thanks.

---

### Post by mike555 on 2010-11-11
So, I guess you have turned off things from the startup list , things that you don't use like maybe blue-tooth etc.
also turned off special effects when your not needing them ........

---

### Post by basbuntu on 2010-11-11
hi mike, 

thanks for the reply, never really looked at the startup apps haha... a lot of stuff not needed there.

i have compiz running and awn, but as i said, i had the same setup in 10.04 and there i had about 8 hours of battery and now i have only 6....i am not quite sure how or where to find the 'problem'

---

### Post by Defiance665 on 2010-11-11
I would like to know too, I have a AO521 (zh9) That I recently put 10.10 on.

Win7 had 6hrs battery life, it now has about 3 with linux.

---

### Post by basbuntu on 2010-11-12
Hi Defiance, 

i did get some of my power usage down by following some tips in this thread....

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1157408]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1157408")

it's all looking a bit better now :) still not fully there yet though...

are you using the CPU Frequency Scaling Monitor? (add to panel...)that helps :)

---

### Post by basbuntu on 2010-11-17
still nobody any ideas? does 10.10 just use a lot more power than 10.04? :confused:

---

### Post by basbuntu on 2011-02-09
time for a small...bump....ahum.

i still have the same problem and have been searching a lot all this time....

I really hope someone out there has some tips or knows why 
10.10 uses more power than 10.04
:confused:

---

### Post by P4man on 2011-02-09
> **basbuntu said:**
> 
10.10 uses more power than 10.04


... on your particular laptop.

Since you already ran powertop and I assume followed up on the recommendations it made, the most likely culprit is the videodrivers that have changed for intel. Not a whole lot you can do about that AFAIK, other than updating your system and hoping it gets fixed.

---

