---
title: "10.10: Resume from hibernation doesn't work"
date: 2010-09-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fuzzdk on 2010-09-21
Hi.

I have a x61s Thinkpad. When I hibernate everything seems to work fine. But when I reboot to resume, it just starts as if no hibernation was done. It has actually worked before in 10.04, but started failing after some upgrade of 10.04.

I have looked at 
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/DebuggingKernelSuspendHibernateResume)

but that only seems to be about fixing if the hibernation doesn't work, and the last lines of /var/log/pm-suspend.log is:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/99video hibernate hibernate: success.
Tue Sep 21 10:29:47 CEST 2010: performing hibernate

So to me it looks like hibernation worked, but resuming hibernation do not.

So my question is, if there is any way to see why it doesn't resume from the hibernation? E.g. any log file that says why it doesn't consider the hibernated
session.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-09-21
This forum is reserved for released versions of Ubuntu.

You're running a Beta version.  You should be posting questions like this to the Maverick Development forum.  Not here.

---

### Post by fuzzdk on 2010-09-21
ok. thanks. Sorry for posting the wrong place.

---

### Post by Spaced on 2010-11-04
I have an Asus X5DIP with Ubuntu Maverick and the following hardware:
```
00:00.0 Host bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP79 Host Bridge (rev b1)
00:00.1 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP79 Memory Controller (rev b1)
00:03.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP79 LPC Bridge (rev b3)
00:03.1 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP79 Memory Controller (rev b1)
00:03.2 SMBus: nVidia Corporation MCP79 SMBus (rev b1)
00:03.3 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP79 Memory Controller (rev b1)
00:03.5 Co-processor: nVidia Corporation MCP79 Co-processor (rev b1)
00:04.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP79 OHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev b1)
00:04.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP79 EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev b1)
00:08.0 Audio device: nVidia Corporation MCP79 High Definition Audio (rev b1)
00:09.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP79 PCI Bridge (rev b1)
00:0b.0 SATA controller: nVidia Corporation MCP79 AHCI Controller (rev b1)
00:10.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP79 PCI Express Bridge (rev b1)
00:15.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP79 PCI Express Bridge (rev b1)
00:16.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP79 PCI Express Bridge (rev b1)
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation C79 [GeForce G102M] (rev b1)
03:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 01)
04:00.0 Network controller: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) (rev 01)

```

Although suspension works, hibernation doesn't. I've tried to install uswsusp to see if it solves the problem, and in fact it does partially. What happens is that with the "sudo s2disk" command the image is apparently written in the swap, the procedure terminates and the laptop turns off. 

Unfortunately when resuming something goes wrong. The resuming procedure starts as it should, because I can see the Plymouth screen, the Ubuntu logo with the five points below it and the message "resuming from image xxxx". But at some point it hangs, and the only way to reboot is by pressing ctrl+alt+del.

I'm quite puzzled by this behaviour, is there any way to check the resuming procedure and see what goes wrong?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Spaced on 2010-11-05
Anybody?

---

### Post by Spaced on 2010-11-06
The laptop seems to stop resuming after it has finished to read the image. There are no errors in reading the image written on the swap. Why does the procedure stop, then?

[[IMG]http://img585.imageshack.us/img585/1339/imag0182.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img585.imageshack.us/i/imag0182.jpg/)

---

### Post by margemoosh on 2010-11-06
> **Spaced said:**
> The laptop seems to stop resuming after it has finished to read the image. There are no errors in reading the image written on the swap. Why does the procedure stop, then?

[[IMG]http://img585.imageshack.us/img585/1339/imag0182.th.jpg[/IMG]]("http://img585.imageshack.us/i/imag0182.jpg/")

I have exactly same problem
s2disk works fine in 10.04 but after upgrade too 10.10 i can't wake up from hibernate and process stop just like Spaced's image

---

### Post by veagles on 2010-11-07
I have the same issue.
Anybody?

---

### Post by monticellifernando on 2010-11-17
Hi!! I was having the same problem. 

I upgreaded from 10.0.4 and hibernation started to take A LOT of time. So I  installed hibernate to try ti fix the time issue and then I could never make mu ubuntu to resume from hibernation (suspend always worked fine).

Then I decided to remove hibernate and uswsusp

sudo apt-get remove hibernate uswsusp

And fixed it for me!. And also hibernation does not take as long as before!

Hope it helps.

Cheers!

Fer.

---

### Post by margemoosh on 2010-11-17
> **monticellifernando said:**
> Hi!! I was having the same problem. 

I upgreaded from 10.0.4 and hibernation started to take A LOT of time. So I  installed hibernate to try ti fix the time issue and then I could never make mu ubuntu to resume from hibernation (suspend always worked fine).

Then I decided to remove hibernate and uswsusp

sudo apt-get remove hibernate uswsusp

And fixed it for me!. And also hibernation does not take as long as before!

Hope it helps.

Cheers!

Fer.


thanks it worked for me:)

---

### Post by matslats on 2010-11-24
I have a new thinkpad and Ubuntu 10.10 won't wake up from hibernation
On booting I get various failure notifications then:
(initramfs) _

I've had a linux guy working on it for an hour. He's clueless.
When we boot to the CD, it seems that some program has sda1 open for writing and won't let go.
I'm very disappointed that it didn't say anywhere on the download site that 10.10 is still in Beta.

---

### Post by ahnise on 2010-11-29
I have a thinkpad edge 11" (intel) with 10.10 and was having problems resuming from Hibernation.  As I recall it WAS working before but stopped after a while (I suspected it was after I installed laptop mode tools but I can't say for sure this was the case_

I tried Margemoosh's solution of sudo apt-get remove hibernate uswsusp.  This did get my hibernation working. The only side effect is that the computer screen goes blank (with a blinking cursor on upper left) during hibernation and recovery. The pretty ubuntu screen has gone away.

---

### Post by ahnise on 2010-11-29
I looked at this again. I discovered with these files removed, I am having problems resuming from suspend. The computer resumes, but having errors on blue tooth, and the mouse stops working for about the first 2 or 3 min. (The mouse works for a few second, than stops for approx 10 seconds - alternating between working and non working for about 5 to 8 cycles. 

I reinstalled uswsusp and the suspend works, but the system will no longer resume from hibernation.

Will post my pm-suspend.log on next post.

---

### Post by ahnise on 2010-11-29
/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00logging hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00powersave hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/00powersave hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/01PulseAudio hibernate hibernate:
Sessions still open, not unmounting
Sessions still open, not unmounting
Sessions still open, not unmounting
Welcome to PulseAudio! Use "help" for usage information.
>>> >>> Sessions still open, not unmounting
Sessions still open, not unmounting
Welcome to PulseAudio! Use "help" for usage information.
>>> >>> Sessions still open, not unmounting
Welcome to PulseAudio! Use "help" for usage information.
>>> >>> Sessions still open, not unmounting

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/01PulseAudio hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/01laptop-mode hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/01laptop-mode hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /etc/pm/sleep.d/10_grub-common hibernate hibernate:

/etc/pm/sleep.d/10_grub-common hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /etc/pm/sleep.d/10_lm hibernate hibernate:

/etc/pm/sleep.d/10_lm hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /etc/pm/sleep.d/10_lm70 hibernate hibernate:

/etc/pm/sleep.d/10_lm70 hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /etc/pm/sleep.d/10_unattended-upgrades-hibernate hibernate hibernate:

/etc/pm/sleep.d/10_unattended-upgrades-hibernate hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/49bluetooth hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/49bluetooth hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/55NetworkManager hibernate hibernate:
Having NetworkManager put all interaces to sleep...method return sender=:1.1 -> dest=:1.96 reply_serial=2
Done.

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/55NetworkManager hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/70action_wpa hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/70action_wpa hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/75modules hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/75modules hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/90clock hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/90clock hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/94cpufreq hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/94cpufreq hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/95anacron hibernate hibernate:
stop: Unknown instance: 

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/95anacron hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/95led hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/95led hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/98video-quirk-db-handler hibernate hibernate:
Kernel modesetting video driver detected, not using quirks.

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/98video-quirk-db-handler hibernate hibernate: success.
Running hook /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/99video hibernate hibernate:

/usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/99video hibernate hibernate: success.
Mon Nov 29 17:49:01 PHT 2010: performing hibernate

---

### Post by ahnise on 2010-11-29
reported this as bug here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uswsusp/+bug/682604](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/uswsusp/+bug/682604)

---

### Post by dubie18 on 2011-01-16
I had an issue with my computer not resuming from suspend/hibernation, and it turned out that I didn't have hibernate or uswsusp installed at all.  I installed those two and it worked perfectly.  It's a fresh upgrade, so might be something to try.

---

### Post by avenca on 2011-03-18
I have the same problem. My hybernation worked fine with 10.04, but after upgraded to 10.10 it stopped working...

Specifically, the hibernation seems to work. When the resume process stars, I see the percentage of loaded image to reach 100%. But after that, I get a blank screen with the following message on top:

Looking for splash system... none
s2disk: snapshotting system
s2disk: returned to userspace

I tried many suggestions that I found on forums, but none worked. I list some of them below:

- remove the hibernate package;

- remove the uswsusp and hibernate package;

- change the file /etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module

- the suggestions included in page: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/522998](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/522998)

- modify the file /etc/default/acpi-support

If possible, help me, please.

Thanks.

---

### Post by insaner on 2012-09-26
hi everyone, especially if you reached this thread via google, going nuts that your hibernate resume is hanging after "image restore successful".. the problem seems to be in the interaction between plymouth (the boot splash system) and uswsusp (or suspend2). one workaround for this is to use your magic sysrq key (you did enable that right?) when its stuck there (or basically anywhere after the image is decompressed), and do: 

ctrl + alt + SysRq 
ctrl + alt + k  

this should get you back to your restored/thawed image.. yeah, a whole years worth of frustration for me.. hope that helps someone out there in linuxland     

-- 
 insaner  
[www.insaner.com]("http://www.insaner.com")

---

### Post by overdrank on 2012-09-26
[IMG]http://img147.imageshack.us/img147/5451/necromancing.jpg[/IMG]
From the _[Ubuntu Forums Code of Conduct]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy")_.
> If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.
Thread closed.

---

