---
title: "Help me with nvidia driver, please"
date: 2009-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-17
Ok, I recently posted this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1206998&highlight=ericus](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1206998&highlight=ericus)
But everything got messy with a lot of packages that was not supposed to be there etc etc, so I decided to make a new thread.

This time I'm on a fresh install. Installed as usual, and immediately went to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers to activate the latest Nvidia driver. Then I rebooted, and after the "loading bar" was finished I get a blank screen. Nothing happens. Some fan inside my computer goes up to high speed. Cant drop to a terminal with ALT-F1, F2, F3, etc etc. Have to reboot and enter recovery mode to edit xorg.conf to get it running.

This is xorg.conf after installing the driver (not working to boot with):

```


Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

If I change the ```
Driver	"nvidia"
``` to ```
Driver	"nv"
``` it boots, but not with the proprietary driver.

I need to get this fixed, it's so annoying. 
GFX card: GeForce 9500 GT

Someone, please. Am I missing something? Something wrong with xorg.conf?

---

### Post by nikhilbhardwaj on 2009-07-17
if there is a problem with your xorg.conf
try running
sudo nvidia-xconfig

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-07-17
Did you got the correct driver for your system? (32bit/64bit)

---

### Post by T.J. on 2009-07-17
Granted this isn't an "end all answer", but I hope it helps, at least for reference. The "nv" driver is the open source one from Xorg.  It does not support 3D effects or video. For that, you need the "nvidia" driver, which is the proprietary one from Nvidia.  It does have all the 3D and video support.  A team is working on an open nvidia driver that does have 3D and video, but it's not ready yet.

The easiest way to get what you probably want on Ubuntu is to use the restricted hardware drivers on the menu under administration. 

You probably don't have support for Composite enabled (if you are after 3D graphics).  If you are experienced in working with the config file directly, the easiest way is using the nvidia-xconfig utility ("sudo nvidia-xconfig") to reconfigure the file.  If that doesn't get the job done, post the entire xorg.conf file in /etc/X11 and I will try to help you.


Either way, you will have to reboot after you use either method, because the Ubuntu version of the graphical user interface (aka X) is rather buggy, and does not restart itself with 3D enabled after you install the driver.

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-18
> **T.J. said:**
> Granted this isn't an "end all answer", but I hope it helps, at least for reference. The "nv" driver is the open source one from Xorg.  It does not support 3D effects or video. For that, you need the "nvidia" driver, which is the proprietary one from Nvidia.  It does have all the 3D and video support.  A team is working on an open nvidia driver that does have 3D and video, but it's not ready yet.

The easiest way to get what you probably want on Ubuntu is to use the restricted hardware drivers on the menu under administration. 

You probably don't have support for Composite enabled (if you are after 3D graphics).  If you are experienced in working with the config file directly, the easiest way is using the nvidia-xconfig utility ("sudo nvidia-xconfig") to reconfigure the file.  If that doesn't get the job done, post the entire xorg.conf file in /etc/X11 and I will try to help you.

Either way, you will have to reboot after you use either method, because the Ubuntu version of the graphical user interface (aka X) is rather buggy, and does not restart itself with 3D enabled after you install the driver.

This is what I have done, and xorg.conf looks like this:
```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon Mar 23 15:33:27 PST 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "DontZap" "False"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Just a blank screen after the loading bar when rebooting.

---

### Post by zeronothing on 2009-07-18
I would suggest going to the Nvidia's website and downloading the newest linux driver. If you are trying to use the built-in driver (that comes with ubuntu) I'm not sure it supports the 9500 card. The latest driver from Nvidia I believe is 185.18.14. They have both 64-bit drivers and 32-bit drivers for Linux. If you can boot your PC into recovery mode and choose "xfix" so you can hopefully get back into your desktop. Then go-to "Hardware Drivers" and uninstall the current Nvidia Driver that comes with Ubuntu. 

In order to install the latest Nvidia driver make sure you download and install the packages "build-essential and "dkms" from synaptic. This will allow you to compile and install the drivers.

Once you have the driver download from Nvidia and the packages install from above you can install the Nvidia driver.

1.) Hit ctrl+alt+f2 to drop down to console

2.) now stop gnome desktop manager with, "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop"

3.) go to the directory where you download the Nvidia driver. execute this command: sudo chmod +x NVIDIA********.run (you want to make sure the file is executable)

4.) now run the installer with: sudo ./NVIDIA*********.run 


hopefully the installer will run and install the driver. once that is done restart your PC with: "sudo reboot"

Hopefully the newer driver will solve your problem. I have experience better performance with the latest driver, than the one that comes with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-18
> **zeronothing said:**
> I would suggest going to the Nvidia's website and downloading the newest linux driver. If you are trying to use the built-in driver (that comes with ubuntu) I'm not sure it supports the 9500 card. The latest driver from Nvidia I believe is 185.18.14. They have both 64-bit drivers and 32-bit drivers for Linux. If you can boot your PC into recovery mode and choose "xfix" so you can hopefully get back into your desktop. Then go-to "Hardware Drivers" and uninstall the current Nvidia Driver that comes with Ubuntu. 

In order to install the latest Nvidia driver make sure you download and install the packages "build-essential and "dkms" from synaptic. This will allow you to compile and install the drivers.

Once you have the driver download from Nvidia and the packages install from above you can install the Nvidia driver.

1.) Hit ctrl+alt+f2 to drop down to console

2.) now stop gnome desktop manager with, "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop"

3.) go to the directory where you download the Nvidia driver. execute this command: sudo chmod +x NVIDIA********.run (you want to make sure the file is executable)

4.) now run the installer with: sudo ./NVIDIA*********.run 


hopefully the installer will run and install the driver. once that is done restart your PC with: "sudo reboot"

Hopefully the newer driver will solve your problem. I have experience better performance with the latest driver, than the one that comes with Ubuntu.

Did exactly what you suggested --still a blank screen on reboot.. :(

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-18
Also tried this, didnt work either:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1035873](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1035873)

Tried installing with envy. No luck.

---

### Post by zeronothing on 2009-07-18
what happens when you do the xfix in recovery mode? do you get the options to reconfigure for new hardware, or use low graphics mode when you do the xfix?

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-18
It gives me this xorg.conf:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Running in normal resolution, but not the nvidia driver.

Here's someone who's got it working:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1096867&highlight=geforce+9500GT](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1096867&highlight=geforce+9500GT)

---

### Post by livigagl on 2009-07-18
A friend of mine had the same problem.
He solved it uninstalling all the nVidia modules using synaptic (after that you can access to your X session using the nv module) and then installing the last nVidia drivers from the .bin file available on the nVidia website.

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-18
> **livigagl said:**
> A friend of mine had the same problem.
He solved it uninstalling all the nVidia modules using synaptic (after that you can access to your X session using the nv module) and then installing the last nVidia drivers from the .bin file available on the nVidia website.

Been there, done that. Without luck :(
This is what I will try now:
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=72490](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=72490)
EDIT: Did not work, sigh...

---

### Post by livigagl on 2009-07-18
Did you do a complete removal of both 173.XX and 96.XX nvidia modules?
What about the 180.XX modules are they installed in synaptic?
I'm using the version 185.18.14 and if I look in synaptic for "nvidia" I don't have anything installed except X.Org X server -- NV display driver (the nv module)

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-19
> **livigagl said:**
> Did you do a complete removal of both 173.XX and 96.XX nvidia modules?
What about the 180.XX modules are they installed in synaptic?
I'm using the version 185.18.14 and if I look in synaptic for "nvidia" I don't have anything installed except X.Org X server -- NV display driver (the nv module)

Ok, tried this. Nothing but the nv driver installed. But the problem still persists. Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-19
Anyone? Please?

---

### Post by T.J. on 2009-07-19
Okay, the xorg file you posted is almost identical to mine, which means, assuming the driver installed properly, it would be working. You can use this as a reference if you like.  Don't cut and paste it, as your monitor frequencies are likely to be different.  It's straight from a 9.04 install that I setup.




# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Mar 24 06:15:32 PST 2009

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier     "Monitor0"
	VendorName     "Unknown"
	ModelName      "Unknown"
	HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
	VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
	Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier     "Screen0"
	Device         "Device0"
	Monitor        "Monitor0"
	DefaultDepth    24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth       24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load           "dbe"
	Load           "extmod"
	Load           "type1"
	Load           "freetype"
	Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Mouse0"
	Driver         "mouse"
	Option         "Protocol" "auto"
	Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
	Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier     "Keyboard0"
	Driver         "kbd"
	# generated from default
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Layout0"
	Screen      0  "Screen0"
	InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
	InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier     "Device0"
	Driver         "nvidia"
	VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
	Option	"DontZap"	"True"
EndSection


I need you to answer two questions, please.  

1) Is the driver properly installed?  You will need to check the xorg log file for errors.  I believe it's under /var/log in Ubuntu.  If you can't find the log file, I'll show you how to get the error output of the X server, but lets take this one step at a time.  =)

If the nvidia kernel driver is not loading, then everything stops, even if your setup file is perfect.  Also, please make sure that dkms is installed on Ubuntu so that when you update your system, it rebuilds the driver module "automagically".  



2) Do you have one of those knock off Nvidia cards with shared RAM?  Sometimes with those "shared ram" cards, it is impossible to predict the end result.

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-20
It seems like it is a hardware error, I'm afraid. Tried to install the windows driver in windows, and during the install the screen goes black.

Booted with a live CD and ran Memtest for 4-5 hours without errors, so it's either the gfx-card or the motherboard, dont know really..

Sorry for taking all your time, you've been really helpful :)

EDIT: Just found out that other people have had the same problem and solved it by flashing the GFX cards BIOS. Will give it a go. Back to installing win again, sigh.. ;)

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-07-20
> **ericus said:**
> It seems like it is a hardware error, I'm afraid. Tried to install the windows driver in windows, and during the install the screen goes black.

Make sure that you have connected all the power cables to the graphic card. Sounds silly maybe, but the graphic card can work without it, it just get's problematic if it needs more power. I don't know exactly how your model looks like.

One other thing: installing the nVidia driver directly from nVidia.com is not always to recommend if your specific brand like XFX for example can provide the driver package directly from their webpage. Sometimes they do tweaks which makes the card work better and from my experience with ATi, the Connect3D Radeon9800XT graphic card never worked correctly with the official drivers when I played Far Cry with it. Just a note to consider if you suspect that it's time to send it back for repairs/replacement.

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-20
Works great with the 178.13 driver in windows, but newest driver does not work.

I can live with running a older driver in linux, but where do I find them?

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2009-07-21
[Linux Display Driver Archive - nVidia]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_archive.html")

---

### Post by ericus on 2009-07-25
Ah, finally.
Problem solved.

Tried just about everything, and then I thought that maybe flashing the BIOS on my motherboard would do the trick, so I installed windows because I couldn't get a hold of a floppy disk --who has a floppy in these days? -- and after flashing I tried to install the windows driver. Fail. Screen went black under install.

At first I was concerned that it might be a hardware error, but then I did some googling, and found out that my GFX card needs a newer BIOS to run with newer drivers. Note, GFX BIOS, not Motherboard BIOS.

Anyway, downloaded and flashed it from XFX's website, and now it's running perfectly!

So to all of you who have the same problem, try flashing the BIOS on your GFX card. But be careful, it can destroy your hardware if you do it wrong.

At least I've learned a lot from this process, and now love linux more than ever.

---

