---
title: "10.04, 11.04, still no success"
date: 2011-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Perkomate on 2011-05-19
hey guys,
i recently tried installing Ubuntu 11.04 and then 10.04 onto my HP Mini 2140. I created a hard drive partition with a size of 50 gigabytes. But, I got an error when trying to install. I also tried an alternate way to make the USB bootable, but still no dice. It was as the Ubuntu logo showed with the 5 dots below it. It got to the 4th dot, then gave this error:

(initramfs) stdin: error 0
mount: mounting /dev/loop0 on //filesystem.squashfs failed: invalid argument
Can not mount -dev/loop0 (cdrom/casper/filesystem.squashfs) on //filesystem.squashfs

thanks for advance for the help!

---

### Post by jasonab1 on 2011-05-19
Check if any of the suggestions at this forum work.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1556602](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1556602)

It seems to be an issue with the media or the ISO image.

---

### Post by Perkomate on 2011-05-19
that would indeed seem to be the reason. I thought it downloaded quite fast for my speed haha. I'll give it another try later today. thanks!
i'll post back with the results.

---

### Post by Perkomate on 2011-05-20
Ok. I got it working, but now I have a problem with the Grub bootloader. When i installed Ubuntu I made a dedicated partition for it, but for an unkown reason it installed into the same partition as windows 7. That was no problem, it worked fine. So i then resized the main partition to take up all of the available space and removed the empty partition. 

BUT...

Grub doesn't like this at all and now refuses to open the bootloader. My netbook doens't have a CD drive so I can't make a bootable disc, and it won't boot off of a USB. Help please!

---

### Post by layers on 2011-05-20
> **Perkomate said:**
> My netbook doens't have a CD drive so I can't make a bootable disc, and it won't boot off of a USB. Help please!

What exactly happens when you try to boot from a USB drive? Have you checked the order of booting devices in the BIOS? It should be able to...

You could also try downloading Ubuntu again, possibly from a different place.

---

### Post by Perkomate on 2011-05-20
it now appears that I was led to download the wrong brub-fixer, that the one I got doens't fix grub. Downloading another as we speak.

---

### Post by Perkomate on 2011-05-23
woo! its working (almost) fine! my model of netbook has some problems with internet, and i'm still trying to fix it but otherwise it's fine!

---

