---
title: "10.4 system slows to unbearable until reboot"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by windfix on 2010-05-03
I ran Karmic until last week, and noticed that it seemed to be getting slower.  I was hoping a clean install of Lucid would fix that... it's worse.  If I leave my machine running for a few hours, something begins dragging down the performance to a crawl.

System Monitor sometimes won't come up - launches an empty grey window.  Other times, System Monitor reports that gnome-system-monitor is consuming 86-96% CPU.

This is a dual-core Dell e6500 laptop with 4 Gigs of RAM, it should fly.  Any ideas on troubleshooting this?

---

### Post by kaldor on 2010-05-03
&#1057;heck for dust.. seriously.

Happened to me once, and I used a vacuum cleaner to suck stuff off the fan. Laptop was fine after.

---

### Post by no2498 on 2010-05-03
type top in a terminal
tells you how to install it

retype top see what is running


hope this helps

---

### Post by windfix on 2010-05-03
OK, vacced the fan (through the case) though I didn't see a lot of dust on it.  I guess it can't hurt.

And 'top' must be installed already as it ran from the terminal.  Thanks for the tip, I will use that when it starts crawling again.. probably later today.

---

### Post by windfix on 2010-05-09
Well, no further signs of the slowdown... either vaccing the fan worked, or an update fixed it.  Not sure, but if it happens again 'top' will be a useful command to diagnose.  Marking this one solved. thanks

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Post-script:  I think I know what was going on - the laptop was simply overheating.  The fan was running high each time, and I always assumed that was a symptom of the cpu being pegged to the max.  I believe that my monitor stand's leg was blocking the fan outtake and the machine was running so hot that its performance slowed.  This was evidenced by 
1. immediate reboot having little or no improvement effect
2. overnight wait having 100% improvement effect
3. my initial slowdown presenting after leaving the machine running with photo screensaver for several hours (a chance to heat up)
4. when it occurred last, it presented whether booted to Windows7 or Ubuntu10.4

This would also explain Kaldor's suggestion above to vaccuum the fan... in his case, a crudded-up fan was not cooling sufficiently.

---

### Post by Zintha on 2010-05-09
> **windfix said:**
> Well, no further signs of the slowdown... either vaccing the fan worked, or an update fixed it.  Not sure, but if it happens again 'top' will be a useful command to diagnose.  Marking this one solved. thanks
Good job being vigilant and marking it as solved.

Just to add, the previous 2 problems i've had that were the same of yours were fixed through updates, but I clean out my case once a month or so.

---

