---
title: "9.10 slow - upgrade from 9.04"
date: 2010-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cwelch on 2010-01-20
All,

I have been running Ubuntu since 7.04 on my Dell Latitude 120L. It is a 1.73GHz Intel with 2GB RAM and an Intel 915 for graphics and a RouterBOARD R52 (Atheros based) card for WLAN instead of the usual Broadcom card. Not killer, but has ALWAYS worked great with XP and Ubuntu as a dual boot box. A couple of weeks ago I upgraded from 9.04 (x86 of course) to 9.10 after doing all updates for 9.04 at the time. Upgrade went great, started right up and ran like a top. Totally impressed with the start up and shut down times, worked good. About a week ago, it started taking a while to boot.. still shuts down fast though. And while running, it seems like its under a lot of load from time to time. TOP doesn't show anything abnormal as far as I can see, but it slows to the point that I can type in FF or in the terminal faster than it displays. Any thoughts, ideas, snide remarks?

Also, does anyone know what happened to pushing Ctrl-Alt-F[1-6] to get a tty?

---

### Post by user1397 on 2010-01-20
> **cwelch said:**
> All,

I have been running Ubuntu since 7.04 on my Dell Latitude 120L. It is a 1.73GHz Intel with 2GB RAM and an Intel 915 for graphics and a RouterBOARD R52 (Atheros based) card for WLAN instead of the usual Broadcom card. Not killer, but has ALWAYS worked great with XP and Ubuntu as a dual boot box. A couple of weeks ago I upgraded from 9.04 (x86 of course) to 9.10 after doing all updates for 9.04 at the time. Upgrade went great, started right up and ran like a top. Totally impressed with the start up and shut down times, worked good. About a week ago, it started taking a while to boot.. still shuts down fast though. And while running, it seems like its under a lot of load from time to time. TOP doesn't show anything abnormal as far as I can see, but it slows to the point that I can type in FF or in the terminal faster than it displays. Any thoughts, ideas, snide remarks?

Also, does anyone know what happened to pushing Ctrl-Alt-F[1-6] to get a tty?have you tried going to system > administration > system monitor to see if there are any particular processes that are taking up a lot of processor power?

Also, try typing in a terminal: ```
free -m
``` this shows you how much memory you have available and how much youre using atm, in megabytes

---

### Post by kaiwen123 on 2010-01-23
[FONT=Courier New]
sudo apt-get install libdvdread4[/FONT]
[FONT=Courier New] sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread4/install-css.sh

[/FONT]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RestrictedFormats/PlayingDVDs

Try the way above. It worked for me !!!!!

---

