---
title: "2.6.32-37 kernel breaks X?"
date: 2012-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leehach on 2012-01-04
Running Lucid on a VirtualBox VM. Have had it running for over a year now, through several kernel (and other software) upgrades. This morning I ran Update Manager. Synaptic History shows:
```
Upgraded the following packages:
app-install-data-partner (12.10.04.4) to 12.10.04.5
grass (6.4.1-2~lucid2) to 6.4.1-2~lucid3
libarchive1 (2.8.0-2) to 2.8.0-2ubuntu0.1
libgweather-common (2.30.0-0ubuntu1) to 2.30.0-0ubuntu1.1
libgweather1 (2.30.0-0ubuntu1) to 2.30.0-0ubuntu1.1
libjasper-dev (1.900.1-7) to 1.900.1-7ubuntu0.10.04.1
libjasper1 (1.900.1-7) to 1.900.1-7ubuntu0.10.04.1
linux-generic (2.6.32.36.42) to 2.6.32.37.43
linux-headers-generic (2.6.32.36.42) to 2.6.32.37.43
linux-image-generic (2.6.32.36.42) to 2.6.32.37.43
linux-libc-dev (2.6.32-36.79) to 2.6.32-37.81
postgis (1.5.2-2~lucid1) to 1.5.3-2~lucid2
postgresql-8.4-postgis (1.5.2-2~lucid1) to 1.5.3-2~lucid2
spideroak (9907) to 9909

Installed the following packages:
linux-headers-2.6.32-37 (2.6.32-37.81)
linux-headers-2.6.32-37-generic (2.6.32-37.81)
linux-image-2.6.32-37-generic (2.6.32-37.81)

```
However, when I restarted, X was not working. GNOME Power Manager does not start, no window decorations (no window manager?), and desktop panels are not coming from the right theme (gray instead of black, application icons are not from the right set).

The kernel is coming from lucid-updates. Tried rebooting into previous kernel, with no luck. Following other threads about missing window managers, if I set Visual Effects to Normal (instead of None), title bars and drag handles appear, but the desktop still looks completely wrong.

Can anyone help me diagnose and fix this?

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2012-01-04
I'd try downgrading some packages one at a time, i.e.
```
sudo apt-get install app-install-data-partner=12.10.04.4
```

That one looks like a likely culprit, as does spideroak (what is that, exactly? It's not in the repos, which makes it a good candidate for causing breakage).

Do a full reboot after each package change just for good measure, and hopefully you can find the one that caused the breakage.

---

### Post by leehach on 2012-01-06
SpiderOak is a backup and sync software. I removed it and downgraded app-install-data-partner, even thought that seems to be only icons and menus. Neither helped. I have now downgraded or uninstalled *all*the apps which upgraded on Tuesday, *except* the linux-* packages. Should I try to downgrade the linux kernel? Anyone want to help me try?

--Lee

---

