---
title: "10.10 hibernate does not work"
date: 2010-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rajanm1 on 2010-10-17
i have a dell mini 9 (1GB RAM) and hibernation does not work. It just comes up with an error saying that there is not enough space
i have just done a fresh install and formatted everything though!

any suggestions?
thanks

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-10-17
Your swap space needs to be slightly bigger than the amount of ram you have for hibernation to work. Is it?

---

### Post by yetiman64 on 2010-10-17
Using "top" (without the quotes) in a terminal will let you find the swap size easily, the figure for it is in the upper section. To quit the top program press "q" on your keyboard.
As quackers pointed out, the figure here will need to be more than the size of your RAM to successfully hibernate the machine.

---

### Post by rajanm1 on 2010-10-18
> **yetiman64 said:**
> Using "top" (without the quotes) in a terminal will let you find the swap size easily, the figure for it is in the upper section. To quit the top program press "q" on your keyboard.
As quackers pointed out, the figure here will need to be more than the size of your RAM to successfully hibernate the machine.

cheers guys, top comes out with:
Mem: 1015524K
Swap: 372732K

so swap is smaller then the memory, but it used to work fine with the older version of ubuntu and also this is a FRESH install of 10.10 with everything reformatted and 4GB of space still free (it's only an 8GB netbook)

can i make my "swap" larger or how can i sort this out please?

thanks :)

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2010-10-18
Howdy,

Swap needs to be at least 2x RAM for suspend to work reliably.

---

### Post by rajanm1 on 2010-10-18
> **HermanAB said:**
> Howdy,

Swap needs to be at least 2x RAM for suspend to work reliably.

how do i make it larger then? i have 4GB free and only 1GB RAM
thanks

---

### Post by vexorian on 2010-10-18
One way is to edit your partitions using the ubuntu CD but resizing partitions can bring you issues if you do the wrong command.

Try this first: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq#How%20do%20I%20add%20more%20swap?](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SwapFaq#How%20do%20I%20add%20more%20swap?)

---

### Post by bobstay on 2010-11-26
Check the "hibernate" package is installed... (why isn't it by default? ](*,))

---

