---
title: "5.1 audio with VLC"
date: 2006-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Denis on 2006-05-26
Hi

I use VLC to play video, but VLC never plays the sound properly. When I play a file with AC3 audio (with 5 channels), the playback is just stereo. 

I've always had this problem, in Warty, as well as Breezy (all i386). Yesterday I tried the Dapper Drake Live CD and the problem is exactly the same. 

As a test I used an ogg theora file, with 5 channel audio. As you can see in the attachment, only stereo options are available in the "audio device" and "audio channels" menu. While the info windows clearly shows that the audio stream has 5 channels. This test was done with the Dapper Live CD, i386. With the w32 codecs installed. 

My soundcard is a SB Audigy 2 ZS. I use ASLA as the output module. (I tried OSS too, but no 5.1 options there either) At the moment I use (hw:1,0) as the device. I've tried all the others, but none of them had a 5.1 option available. Multichannel Playback didn't output any sound. 

These are the ALSA device names I can chose from: 
Audigy 2 ZS [SB0350]: ADC Capture/Standard PCM Playback (hw:1,0)
Audigy 2 ZS [SB0350]: Multichannel Capture/PT Playback (hw:1,2)
Audigy 2 ZS [SB0350]: Multichannel Playback (hw:1,3)
Audigy 2 ZS [SB0350]: p16v (hw:1,4)

Is there a way to get 5.1 sound with VLC? Maybe someone else has experience with this soundcard? Suggestions about other video players (like Mplayer e.g.) are also welcome.

---

### Post by Eug on 2006-05-28
i would like some insight into getting 5.1 channels working too..

center and sub are working, as are the front stereo speakers..
but my rear surrounds are not. everything is wired up correctly.

cheers
eug

---

### Post by roderikk on 2006-05-28
Yes, I've got the same problem using XMMS. However, this is my first experience with 5.1 so I don't know whether a normal mp3 would play in 5.1 surround mode ;-). Could anybody tell me how to take full advantage of my new 5.1 set?

---

### Post by Denis on 2006-05-28
A normal mp3 can be played with all your speakers roderikk, this should be really easy. Open up your mixer (on the panel or alsamixer in the terminal). Make sure you are adjusting for the right soundcard. Look for the sliders "Surround" and "Center" (or add them if necessary). By default these are silent I think, if you increase the volume, you will hear your stereo sounds through the front, rear and center speakers. 

About my problem:  All my speakers are working allright, but I'm not sure they output the correct channel. I thought the voice would usually be output by the center speaker e.g.

I've been trying some different players, and they all sound the same. I'm wondering, maybe the sound is being played corectly... I'm a bit confusedt, I'll check it again later. Maybe compare DVD and other movie playback with windows to see if there is a difference.

---

### Post by Plasma_NZ on 2008-03-25
Ok mp3's wont play in 5.1 unless encoded that way.. i've tried the above mentioned method, doesnt work... specially in VLC player...  

Only way i get 5.1 to work in VLC is to have a media file encoded with dts/ac3 5.1 and then select 5.1 device... otherwise it's just "cenetr, left, right, sub" ... So as far as im aware u'd have to edit a config file for alsa to make mp3's work in 5.1 unless they are already encoded to 5.1... correct me if im wrong..

---

