---
title: "12.04 first day of week?"
date: 2012-06-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by forcecore on 2012-06-06
Hello, this is weird that i change my location to my EU country and still first day of week is wong, EU has Monday as first week day, Sunday is last day.

i tried to use my old script but this caused Gnome panel and GTK menus appear unknown characters, do anyone knows how to fix this script if possible. Anyway 12.10 should automatically adjust this.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2012-06-06
what is the output of *locale*?

---

### Post by forcecore on 2012-06-06
> **Vaphell said:**
> what is the output of *locale*?

What do you mean, i runned script and after restart half of text dialogs are unknown character.

This is output when running script, i runned second time so output maybe not same anymore as first time:
Generating locales...
  en_AG.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_AU.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_BW.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_CA.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_DK.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_GB.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_HK.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_IE.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_IN.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_NG.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_NZ.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_PH.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_SG.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_US.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_ZA.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_ZM.UTF-8... up-to-date
  en_ZW.UTF-8... up-to-date
Generation complete.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2012-06-06
i mean - what do you get when you type locale in terminal
i don't see how modification of en_US settings is the proper way to fix the problem.
Why do you use it if your country is not the US?

---

### Post by forcecore on 2012-06-06
i get this:

LANG=zh_CN.UTF-8
LANGUAGE=zh_CN:en
LC_CTYPE="zh_CN.UTF-8"
LC_NUMERIC=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_TIME=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_COLLATE="zh_CN.UTF-8"
LC_MONETARY=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_MESSAGES="zh_CN.UTF-8"
LC_PAPER=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_NAME=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_ADDRESS=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_TELEPHONE=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_MEASUREMENT=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_IDENTIFICATION=en_GB.UTF-8
LC_ALL=

---

### Post by David Andersson on 2012-06-06
You are using zh_CN (Simplified Chinese) for messages and alphabetic order and en_GB (Brittish English) for everything else, including LC_TIME. With LC_TIME being en_GB weeks should begin with Monday.

In what program does it show Sunday first?

(I suggest you don't use that script. It changes en_US that you don't use and thus it has no effect. A better way is to set LC_TIME in your $HOME/.profile file.)

---

### Post by forcecore on 2012-06-06
> **David Andersson said:**
> You are using zh_CN........

Script is way faster if it would work and easier for using multiple times.

What i must set in .profile to make Monday as first, i have no idea.

---

### Post by David Andersson on 2012-06-10
> **forcecore said:**
> Script is way faster if it would work and easier for using multiple times.

I doubt that. Not that script.

> **forcecore said:**
> 
What i must set in .profile to make Monday as first, i have no idea.

1) Set LC_TIME to a culture that have Monday first, for example en_GB. You can set it in ~/.profile . (You can set LC_TIME, LC_NUMERIC and LC_MONETARY collectively with Language Support in system settings tab Regional Formats, but I don't know where that setting is saved.) In .profile it can look like this

```
LC_TIME=en_GB.UTF-8
export LC_TIME
```

But this will probably not help you. See 2)

2) According to your locale command you have already set LC_TIME to en_GB so Mondays should be first. Why you still don't get it that way is a mystery. And why LC_TIME already is en_GB (if you haven't set it yourself in .profile or otherwise) is also a mystery. To me.

The script does not do it, as far as I can see. Maybe you have done other things with other scripts. Maybe you inadvertedly have changed en_GB in your system to be more like en_US. Maybe en_GB is not installed at all. Maybe it generally works, but you are using a specific program that does not respect the LC_TIME setting.

Hence my previous question
[QUOTE=David Andersson]In what program does it show Sunday first?
[/QUOTE]

Other questions:

Is it correct that the normal language for you in your computer is, or should be, Chinese?

Can you verify in Synaptic that "language-pack-en" is installed?

Can you verify in Language Support in system settings, button Install/Remove languages, that English is fully installed?

---

### Post by russomarco on 2013-04-17
1. Open a terminal and type in "gksudo gedit /usr/share/i18n/locales/en_US"
2. Find the line starting with "first_weekday". The value for Monday in en_US is 2 (Sunday is 1)
3. Change to "first_weekday 2" (default was 1)
4. Type in terminal "sudo locale-gen"
5. Reboot the computer

(taken from here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/944340](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/944340) )

---

