---
title: "10.04 missing title bars minimize/maximize/close buttons missing"
date: 2012-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2012-06-02
Recently, I've found my minimize/maximize/close buttons and the whole title bar disappearing from my windows when I come back to my computer after being on screensaver.  I'm only able to get them back by logging off and back on.

I've googled the issue, and everyone else who is experiencing this seem to be using desktop fx, compiz, etc.  However, I am not.  Any ideas what might be causing this and how I can fix it?

Using 10.04 64, fully patched as of today.

---

### Post by drpjkurian on 2012-06-02
Hi
Right click on your idle desktop and select your screen settings to 'none'

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2012-06-02
> **drpjkurian said:**
> Hi
Right click on your idle desktop and select your screen settings to 'none'

I guess I don't follow what you mean by "Idle desktop."  I just found my computer in the same state as usual, so I clicked on the desktop and the only options I have are Create Folder, Create Launcher, Create Document, Clean Up by Name, Keep Aligned, Paste and Change Background.

Just in case there was any confusion above, I'm not using desktop fx or anything.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-06-02
Hi

Next time it happens, press ALT + F2 to bring up the run dialog and type

```
metacity --replace
```

and hit <enter>. Does that bring back your title bar, borders and buttons ?

If it does, then you have problems with metacity. This command will not be permanent and you will have the same issue again.

Post back what happens.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2012-06-02
Well, alt+F2 did not work, but I had a terminal open and did it that route.  Yep, that fixed it.


So, what is the permanent fix to this?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-06-02
Hi

> So, what is the permanent fix to this?

Good question :)

Is the only time you are seeing this is when the screensaver kicks in or are there other times (after suspend - hibernate - switching workspaces - etc) ?

Kind regards

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2012-06-02
To be technical, it's only when the screensaver kicks in - but that's because this machine is primarily used as a server, so I don't do much other work on it.  This just began a week or two ago (at least so far as I noticed.)

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-06-03
Hi

We should check the logs first.

After you lose Metacity can you post back the last 100 or so lines of these logs (these two should do for a start)

```
/var/log/Xorg.0log
```

and 

```
~/.xsession-errors
```

Let's see if we can tease the problem out as well.

Open a terminal and type these different commands. 

Post back if you get the problem with Metacity after a specific command.

```
xset dpms force off
xset dpms force standby
xset dpms force suspend
gnome-screensaver-command -a
```

Kind regards

---

### Post by Weidbrewer on 2012-06-11
It, of course, hasn't happened again, since.  If it does, I will post a follow-up.

---

