---
title: "Grub install failed, how to add new Ubuntu install?"
date: 2012-09-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chrisinpants on 2012-09-05
I just installed a fresh Ubuntu (12.04 I think, currently running 10.04) onto a new partition (formatted with btrfs) but the end of the installation gave me a Grub could not be installed error. So I went about adding it manually using this guide:

[http://linuxnorth.wordpress.com/2011/03/09/grub2-revisited/](http://linuxnorth.wordpress.com/2011/03/09/grub2-revisited/)

which involves editing the grub.cfg via the 40_custom file and running update-grub. After running said command, the update works but only adds everything but my new install, leaving me with an identical grub.cfg as before. My custom grub cfg (has the new install added under 10_linux, I've highlighted the two lines in bold for your convinience).

#!/bin/sh
exec tail -n +3 $0
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd2,6)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set fbce1d20-f04d-4d6b-a327-4df782e831f9
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd2,6)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set fbce1d20-f04d-4d6b-a327-4df782e831f9
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

**### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###**
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-38-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd2,6)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set fbce1d20-f04d-4d6b-a327-4df782e831f9
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-38-generic root=UUID=fbce1d20-f04d-4d6b-a327-4df782e831f9 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-38-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-38-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd2,6)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set fbce1d20-f04d-4d6b-a327-4df782e831f9
	echo	'Loading Linux 2.6.32-38-generic ...'
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-38-generic root=UUID=fbce1d20-f04d-4d6b-a327-4df782e831f9 ro single 
	echo	'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-38-generic
}
**menuentry 'Ubuntu' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os** {
	recordfail
	insmod btrfs
	set root='(hd2,9)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 3ef7127d-733b-4e0f-9a81-d9fe74bfd4fd
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-3.2.0-29-generic	root=UUID=3ef7127d-733b-4e0f-9a81-d9fe74bfd4fd ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-3.2.0-29-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd2,6)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set fbce1d20-f04d-4d6b-a327-4df782e831f9
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd2,6)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set fbce1d20-f04d-4d6b-a327-4df782e831f9
	linux16	/boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sdc1)" {
	insmod fat
	set root='(hd2,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set cca9-0618
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###



Now, blkid gives me two UUID's for the new install partition:

/dev/sdb9: UUID="3ef7127d-733b-4e0f-9a81-d9fe74bfd4fd" UUID_SUB="2980d3b1-b866-414a-804e-4c8d7d634e51" TYPE="btrfs" 

I ended up modifying the /boot/grub/grub.cfg directly and adding these details to the grub 00_header but Grub cannot work with this. When I reverted to the config pasted above, all is well, but when I try to boot my new install (using both UUID's, on different occasions) GRUB says:

error: file not found
error: no such device: 3ef7127d-733b-4e0f-9a81-d9fe74bfd4fd *or* 2980d3b1-b866-414a-804e-4c8d7d634e51
error: hd2, 9 cannot get C/H/S values.
error: you need to load the kernel first

The regular 'UUID' is also reflected when browsing this partition in Nautilus. 

Oh, in the root of my new install is the folder '@', within is /, is this normal?

What should I try for my next trick? I'm having issues with apt, which I've spent hours trying to fix (might be a prob with my modem/ISP, which is an iphone/mobile provider, but I won't know for sure until I get this new install up) so I'd rather not have install anything to help here, if that's possible. Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2012-09-05
use Grub-Recovery  in my signature to restore the Grub .

---

### Post by chrisinpants on 2012-09-05
Thanks Raja. As the guide instructs, I've tried:

grub-install /dev/sda9

=

/usr/sbin/grub-setup: error: unable to identify a filesystem in hd1,9; safety check can't be performed.


The filesystem on that device is btrfs. I get the same reults with:


grub-install --force /dev/sdb9


Chris

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-09-05
The standard is ext formats so I think grub loads that by default, but it has a mod file to load that driver also. In your grub.cfg is insmod ext2 which is for the entire family of ext formats.

So you may need to load the btrfs.mod file with a insmod btrfs command.

---

### Post by chrisinpants on 2012-09-05
I did try that but it was to no avail. I've just reinstalled with ext4. It seemed like a long winded approach reading other threads on using btrfs, just not worth it for my needs. Thanks for your help.

---

