---
title: "10.04 general slowness and strange load average"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mthome on 2010-05-04
I just did an upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04, amd64, booting the generic kernel, and I'm finding the whole system feels slower than 9.10 and halty, as though the scheduler is seriously broken.

Two specific data points:
- my load average (indicated by top) varies between 0.5 and 1.5 at _idle_ (> 95% idle) with no indication what's going on. At the moment - 0.73/0.68/0.81 load with 97.3% idle.
- I've had a number of programs pretty much lock everything up, even though they ought have been limited to a single processor. In this situation, the cpu monitor indicates one core (of four) is pegged, but _everything_ stops for tens of seconds at a time.

Nothing leaps out at me from the logs - any guidance would be appreciated.

Linux delirium 2.6.32-22-generic #33-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 28 13:28:05 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by Smart Viking on 2010-05-04
Have you restarted the machine lately?

---

### Post by mthome on 2010-05-04
yes, including after one of these hangs that just never returned (waited 10 **minutes**).  Was there something specific you had in mind or is it just hoping that a reboot will fix everything?

---

### Post by Smart Viking on 2010-05-04
When my computer have been on for several days, it get really slow, and it is fixed with a reboot.

---

### Post by mthome on 2010-05-05
at the moment, load average is 1.18, at 96.1% idle, no swap in use, top indicates a little low-level firefox activity (4%).

Nothing going on, but load average >1 ?! not happy

---

### Post by Technolords on 2010-05-11
I am experiencing the same. Something is claiming resources and top doesn't reveal it.

---

### Post by mthome on 2010-05-11
FWIW, my system behaves much better using the preempt kernels.  Still not up to 9.10 standards, but it is definitely more responsive.

---

### Post by nacho32 on 2010-05-11
I degraded back to the 9.10 had the same problem thought I was using Vista

---

