---
title: "10.04 Login Delay"
date: 2010-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brokkenwilliam on 2010-09-15
Hi all,

When I log into my ubuntu 10.04 after booting my computer, I receive a 30-40 second lag before I can actually log in. During this lag, I can move the cursor and the login background is shown, but the computer seems to be doing nothing. It is as if there is a sleep command before I even log in. Any suggestions?

I am using a Sager 2096 computer but I got this computer for free and it did not come with the specs. I had installed a 64-bit version of Ubuntu because this computer has a 64-bit architecture. However, whenever I install software, it always has to install the x86 version because the x64 is "not supported." Perhaps I have a mix of 32 and 64 bit programs and that is what is screwing it up?

Thanks!

~Guillaume

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-09-15
> **brokkenwilliam said:**
> When I log into my ubuntu 10.04 after booting my computer, I receive a 30-40 second lag before I can actually log in. During this lag, I can move the cursor and the login background is shown, but the computer seems to be doing nothing. It is as if there is a sleep command before I even log in. Any suggestions?

I am using a Sager 2096 computer but I got this computer for free and it did not come with the specs.

On one of my machines I get a significant lag if the PCI tuner card is installed. If I remove the card, the lag goes. I don't know why. Have you installed any extra hardware in it?

> **brokkenwilliam said:**
> I had installed a 64-bit version of Ubuntu because this computer has a 64-bit architecture. However, whenever I install software, it always has to install the x86 version because the x64 is "not supported." Perhaps I have a mix of 32 and 64 bit programs and that is what is screwing it up?

I don't quite follow that. If you installed the 32-bit OS, you'll get 32-bit software and 64-bit for 64-bit. The package manager will make sure you don't get a mix. There are some apps which come in a universal package with the _all.deb ending instead of _i386.deb for 32-bit and _amd64.deb for 64-bit, but I've never seen "not supported" on my 64-bit installation. Let's see what kernel you've got and whether it's running in 64-bit mode. Post the terminal output of:

```
uname -a
```Here's the output from my 64-bit system:

```
Linux amd4-Lucid 2.6.32-24-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Aug 20 14:21:58 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```And here's the output from another 64-bit machine running the same generic kernel but with a 32-bit system:

```
Linux Acer-Lucid 2.6.32-24-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Aug 20 14:24:04 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
```

---

### Post by brokkenwilliam on 2010-09-20
Here is my output for the command:
```
Linux guillaume-laptop 2.6.32-24-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Aug 20 14:24:04 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux

```

I have no external hardware installed.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-09-21
> **brokkenwilliam said:**
> I had installed a 64-bit version of Ubuntu because this computer has a 64-bit architecture.

According to the output of your uname, you installed the 32-bit version of Ubuntu. That's why you can't install 64-bit software. See the bit I've reddened:

> **brokkenwilliam said:**
> Linux guillaume-laptop 2.6.32-24-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Aug 20 14:24:04 UTC 2010 [COLOR=red]i686[/COLOR] GNU/Linux


> **brokkenwilliam said:**
> I have no external hardware installed.

I wasn't referring to external hardware. In my case, it is a PCI tuner card.

---

