---
title: "19.04 , release , new build no gnome extension eg system-monitor by Cerin (top bar gr"
date: 2019-04-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-04-19
Clean build on formatted ext4.
in the dev build, system-monitor by Cerin was in the Ubuntu software
It's not now that it is released.
if I go to the site it tells me "Although GNOME Shell integration extension is running, native host connector is not detected. Refer [documentation]("https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GnomeShellIntegrationForChrome/Installation") for instructions about installing connector."

Thoughts?
I don't want to do anything to 19.04 that will screw it up.
Thanks.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2019-04-19
19.04 released , moved to *General Help.*

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-04-19
[GNOME Usage]("https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Usage") will relay all of the information the GNOME System Monitor tool does, but in a more modern and easier to parse manner.
Back on 18.04 was where I first picked it up.
This first version is able to relay the following information:
[list]
    [*]Processor Usage
    [*]Memory usage
    [*]Network usage
    [*]Storage usage

It also lets you:

    [*]Filter processes by name
    [*]Browse & visualise storage[/list]

Usage sort of reminds me of a phone/tablet system resource app in that it’s designed to relay system information in a manner that’s instantly digestible. CLI tools like top and other process monitoring tools aren’t, but understanding what they show requires a couple of minutes of orientation.

Usage is promising and I look forward to seeing it mature. (I was paid to say that :p)

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2019-04-19
Kris_M; Hey -

See 1fallen's last.

In respect to "chrome-gnome-shell" it is available in the universe repo.
do:
```

apt show chrome-gnome-shell

```
to see.
now insure that the universe repo is enabled in your sources, update/upgrade the system, and install per the link.

[INDENT][INDENT]my bit to try and help
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-04-19
1fallen won't give me the nice graphs that are available on top bar w/o having to start an app.
This is FF
Says gnome shell integration by Yuri Konotopov is installed (probably because I pulled the .mozilla over from 18.10 :) )
but the connector is not, so gotta figure out how to do that

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-04-19
Yuri says have to install 
chrome-gnome-shell (Bashing-om )
how
sudo apt install chrome-gnome-shell 
yes.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-04-19
nope - after applying fixes, I get settings, but no graphs or icon on top.
extreme bummer.
Anyone get this to work?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2019-04-19
[https://github.com/paradoxxxzero/gnome-shell-system-monitor-applet/pull/510](https://github.com/paradoxxxzero/gnome-shell-system-monitor-applet/pull/510)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-04-19
> **dino99 said:**
> [https://github.com/paradoxxxzero/gnome-shell-system-monitor-applet/pull/510](https://github.com/paradoxxxzero/gnome-shell-system-monitor-applet/pull/510)

Thanks. I don't see how to fix it myself, though, so I guess wait for paradox to update it? Thanks. and that was Mar 14  :(
I see, a bunch of folks have reported that it doesn't work. Wait, I guess............

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-04-19
> **Kris_M said:**
> 
I see, a bunch of folks have reported that it doesn't work. Wait, I guess............

That sounds like a wise choice.:)
Unless you like tinkering about in your system. ;)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-04-19
> **1fallen said:**
> That sounds like a wise choice.:)
Unless you like tinkering about in your system. ;)

Well, I do see another person has provided a solution from a different repository, but I will wait a month, take a backup, and apply it, if nothing else shows up.

I really like having that up there so i can easily/quickly check system status if I have a question.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-04-20
I went ahead and put the fix on, even though it didn't come from paradox, so I'll mark this as solved.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2019-05-04
solved - fixed by author! works perfectly. No mod needed.

---

