---
title: "10.10 black screen and mouse cursor at boot SSD"
date: 2011-01-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by afireohno on 2011-01-27
I'm running 10.10 off an OCZ vertex 2 SSD on a dell e4300. Today, after a hibernate, I went to awaken my computer I was greeted by a black screen and a mouse cursor, which I could move. Tried restarting, shutting down, but I was always greeted by the same black screen. When I drop into a tty and login I have warnings of the form "cannot create /var/lib/update-notifier/updates-available: Read-only file system."

Suspecting file system errors I booted into a live environment to check the file system, but the utility reported the filesystem was clean. Assuming this was just "one of those things" I backed up my files and reinstalled. Everything seemed to go fine, ran updates, installed some stuff, transfered my files back, and went about my work.

Shutdown, came home, started my computer and I have the same black screen, with the same read only file system messages. I can't write into any files in my home directory. I have no idea what to do. 

I mention the SSD as this a fairly new (refurbed) computer and is my first SSD. I have no idea what could be causing the problems? Should I suspect hardware. I did some reading about linux + SSD and didn't see any special configuration I needed to do, but did I miss something? It ran fine for almost 2 weeks.

thanks

---

### Post by afireohno on 2011-01-28
Well, I've updated my BIOS and reinstalled again, but no luck yet. Any ideas? I'm really hoping the solution isn't I bought a $180 paper weight.

---

