---
title: "16.04 - unable to install EncryptStick"
date: 2016-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by insane9 on 2016-05-04
I've purchased and downloaded a debian file to install the software [EncryptStick]("http://www.encryptstick.com/") but unfortunately, it will not install on 16.04.

> sudo dpkg -i EncryptStick_linux_6.0.26_amd64.deb 
[sudo] password for user: 
Selecting previously unselected package encryptstick.
(Reading database ... 197675 files and directories currently installed.)
Preparing to unpack EncryptStick_linux_6.0.26_amd64.deb ...
Unpacking encryptstick (6.0.26) ...
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of encryptstick:
 encryptstick depends on libc6 (<< 2.20); however:
  Version of libc6:amd64 on system is 2.23-0ubuntu3.
 encryptstick depends on libicu52 (>= 52~m1-1~); however:
  Package libicu52 is not installed.
 encryptstick depends on libssl0.9.8 (>= 0.9.8m-1); however:
  Package libssl0.9.8 is not installed.


dpkg: error processing package encryptstick (--install):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
Processing triggers for gnome-menus (3.13.3-6ubuntu3) ...
Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils (0.22-1ubuntu5) ...
Processing triggers for bamfdaemon (0.5.3~bzr0+16.04.20160415-0ubuntu1) ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf-2.index...
Processing triggers for mime-support (3.59ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for hicolor-icon-theme (0.15-0ubuntu1) ...
Errors were encountered while processing:
 encryptstick


So I then try:

> sudo apt-get -f install
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Correcting dependencies... Done
The following packages will be REMOVED
  encryptstick
0 to upgrade, 0 to newly install, 1 to remove and 0 not to upgrade.
1 not fully installed or removed.
After this operation, 97.8 MB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
(Reading database ... 197763 files and directories currently installed.)
Removing encryptstick (6.0.26) ...
Processing triggers for hicolor-icon-theme (0.15-0ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for gnome-menus (3.13.3-6ubuntu3) ...
Processing triggers for desktop-file-utils (0.22-1ubuntu5) ...
Processing triggers for bamfdaemon (0.5.3~bzr0+16.04.20160415-0ubuntu1) ...
Rebuilding /usr/share/applications/bamf-2.index...
Processing triggers for mime-support (3.59ubuntu1) ...
Processing triggers for libc-bin (2.23-0ubuntu3) ... 

But unfortunately, this doesn't work either. Can anyone help? I want to use 16.04 LTS as my main OS, but whilst this is happening, I can not use it as my daily driver.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2016-05-06
The libc in 16.04 is newer than the libc that encryptstick requires.  I don't see any solution for this doing a simple install.  

Since this is commercial software, I'd contact them for help. They know they need to create an ubuntu 16.04 package anyway. [https://www.encryptstick.com/support-center/](https://www.encryptstick.com/support-center/)

libc is the 2nd most important thing on a Linux/Unix system, just behind the kernel.  Pretty much every other peice of software is dependent on the version of libc, so you cannot just swap out an older version for the one already installed. It would be bad, probably won't even boot.

The safest way is to setup a VM that uses an older libc.  There is a new everything-included installation method included as part of 16.04, but the packager needs to be made specifically to do that.  Can't recall the name right now, sorry.

Just a reminder, debian packages ARE NOT 100% compatible with Ubuntu.

---

