---
title: "11.04 Ubuntu Classic &amp; AWN"
date: 2011-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shade82000 on 2011-05-08
Afternoon all.

I have been running Ubuntu 10.04 & 10.10 nicely over the last year and recently I found the avant-window-navigator, which I now use instead of gnome-panel.

It's easy to make the changes in previous versions, I just had to go into gconf-editor, navigate to /desktop/gnome/required_components and change the "panel" key from gnome-panel to avant-window-navigator.

Now I am one of the many who despises Unity and put off the upgrade to 11.04, until I read that you can select Ubuntu Classic when logging in and not use Unity.

No problem, I thought.  I will just use Ubuntu Classic, make the same changes as before and not use Unity.

But, this doesn't seem to work.  The same keys are not present in gconf-editor and even if I add them they have no effect.

Anyone know what I am doing wrong?

Any help would be greatly appreciated...

Thanks.

---

### Post by tomski on 2011-05-08
You ain't doing anything wrong its ubuntu
to get what you want I suggest installing ubuntu and ditch gnome as classic mode is not very configurable and will not be present in the next ubuntu release

I hit the roof when I found out but there we go

either install xubuntu-desktop or fresh install 
either way xfce will be the best way to get what you are used to

---

### Post by shade82000 on 2011-05-08
Ah that's no good.

So is that it now?  We have to choose between Gnome 3, Unity & KDE?

This might be worth a switch back to Windows :(

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-08
The 'required components' are now specified by the session settings in "/usr/share/gnome-session/sessions".

Try modifying "classic-gnome.session" like this:
```

[GNOME Session]
Name=Classic GNOME
Required=windowmanager;panel;filemanager;
Required-windowmanager=gnome-wm
Required-panel=[COLOR=Red]**avant-window-navigator**[/COLOR]
Required-filemanager=nautilus
DefaultApps=gnome-settings-daemon;
IsRunnableHelper=/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test --compiz
FallbackSessionsID=GNOME2d
GNOME2d=2d-gnome
```If that doesn't work, which is the case for me with classic Gnome 2 in Lucid 10.04, remove "panel" as required component, like this:```

[GNOME Session]
Name=Classic GNOME
Required=windowmanager;filemanager;
Required-windowmanager=gnome-wm
Required-filemanager=nautilus
DefaultApps=gnome-settings-daemon;
IsRunnableHelper=/usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test --compiz
FallbackSessionsID=GNOME2d
GNOME2d=2d-gnome
```And add "avant-window-navigator" to "Startup Applications" instead.

Greetings.

---

### Post by MeduZa on 2011-05-09
excellent, they changed the 'required components' position. now I removed the panel

thanks :)

---

### Post by shade82000 on 2011-05-10
That's great Krytarik, your first suggestion worked a treat.  Thanks for your help!

I'm fairly happy the way it is at the moment, it now defaults to Ubuntu  Classic with AWN instead of Gnome, but leaves Unity there in case some  magical update makes it at all usable in future!

If it is true that they will be ditching Gnome altogether in the next release then that's no good.  But I'm guessing that there will be some way of doing what we've just done, but replacing Unity with AWN instead of Gnome?

I hate Unity.  I mean I really hate it.  What good is an interface where you can't right click on panel objects to configure / add / remove them? And I really don't like the idea of clicking the Apps icon only to be presented with a half-list of installed apps and a half-list of apps I can download but if I want an installed app that's not in the 'main' list then it's another 2 clicks away.

I might not be a Linux guru but if I have a job to do then I know whether the app is installed or I need to go and download one.  Just an Apps menu and a Software Centre will suffice, thanks very much.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-10
> **shade82000 said:**
> 
If it is true that they will be ditching Gnome altogether in the next release then that's no good.  But I'm guessing that there will be some way of doing what we've just done, but replacing Unity with AWN instead of Gnome?
Unity is just a plugin of Compiz. And the Unity session is in fact based on Gnome, too. So, one could also just run the Unity session, disable the "Ubuntu Unity Plugin" in "CompizConfig Settings Manager", and run AWN through "Startup Applications", or through the session settings. And since AWN is apparently already compatible to Gnome 3, it seems like there are no obstacles ahead:
[http://www.sterndata.com/content/gnome-3-and-awn-new-desktop](http://www.sterndata.com/content/gnome-3-and-awn-new-desktop)

---

