---
title: "16.04: apt and apt-get (and apt-cache)"
date: 2016-04-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-03
> **_NOTE_: what follows is currently applicable to *apt* *as provided in 16.04* and not to older versions which may or may not have the usages available to 16.04**

16.04 suggests the use of *apt* instead of *apt-get*. The *man* page for *apt* can be found at [http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/en/man8/apt.8.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/en/man8/apt.8.html).

*update*, *upgrade*, *install*, *remove*, *purge*, and *autoremove* work the same with both apt & *apt-get*.

*apt full-upgrade* seems the same as *apt-get dist-upgrade*.

*apt search* and *apt show* are the equivalents of *apt-cache search* and *apt-cache show*.

*apt list* and *apt edit-sources* are described as work-in-progress.

While playing with 16.04, I found that *apt install* takes *-s* (for a simulation) and *--no-install-recommends* just as *apt-get* does.

*apt*, *apt-get* and *aptitude* are covered here: [https://debian-handbook.info/browse/jessie/sect.apt-get.html](https://debian-handbook.info/browse/jessie/sect.apt-get.html)

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-04-03
The *apt* command won't work on 12.04 systems. It was introduced in 14.04.

*apt autoremove* is new in 16.04. 15.10 and older must use *apt-get autoremove*.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-03
> **ian-weisser said:**
> The *apt* command won't work on 12.04 systems. It was introduced in 14.04.

*apt autoremove* is new in 16.04. 15.10 and older must use *apt-get autoremove*.
I'll make it clear the thread is about 16.04 **only**. There are more differences as well between the apt available in 16.04 and that for 15.10, let alone 14.04.

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2016-04-04
We now have 'apt full-upgrade' but 'apt dist-upgrade' also seems to work.  I don't understand that.  Running 16o4.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-04
> **v3.xx said:**
> We now have 'apt full-upgrade' but 'apt dist-upgrade' also seems to work.  I don't understand that.  Running 16o4.
That's interesting!

Could you please post the output of *apt-cache policy apt*? Maybe they've rejigged things in a newer version?
Is yours newer than what is shown in [http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/en/man8/apt.8.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/en/man8/apt.8.html) ?

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2016-04-04
> **vasa1 said:**
> That's interesting!

Could you please post the output of *apt-cache policy apt*? Maybe they've rejigged things in a newer version?
Is yours newer than what is shown in [http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/en/man8/apt.8.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/xenial/en/man8/apt.8.html) ?

Hi vasa1

> apt:
  Installed: 1.2.9
  Candidate: 1.2.9
  Version table:
 *** 1.2.9 500
        500 [http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) xenial/main amd64 Packages

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-04
> **v3.xx said:**
>  Installed: 1.2.9
The online man page is still for version 1.2.7. So maybe that explains what you see. I wonder if there's some change log somewhere we could look at for clues about what's changed.

The bottom of [http://launchpadlibrarian.net/250088853/apt_1.2.8_1.2.9.diff.gz](http://launchpadlibrarian.net/250088853/apt_1.2.8_1.2.9.diff.gz) has this:```
+aptget dist-upgrade -s
```So it looks like one can use *apt-get dist-upgrade* _or_ *apt dist-upgrade* _or_ *apt full-upgrade*.

Edit: I found something ... [https://launchpad.net/debian/+source/apt/+changelog](https://launchpad.net/debian/+source/apt/+changelog) 
```

1.0.2
Superseded in sid-release on **2014-05-06**

apt (1.0.2) unstable; urgency=medium


  [ Michael Vogt ]
  * fix apt list output for pkgs in dpkg ^rc state
  * Notice the user about "apt list -a" when only a single hit if found
  * fix test-failure in adt
  * apt-private/acqprogress.cc: fix output when ctrl-c is hit during 
    apt update (LP: #1310548, closes: #744297)
  * Fix option name DPkg::Progress-Fancy in apt.8 manpage
    (LP: #1310506)

  [ David Kalnischkies ]
  * don't double-count seeks in FileFd::Skip for bzip/xz
  * deal with umask only if we really need to for mkstemp
  * consider priorities only for downloadable pkgs in resolver
  * force fancy progressbar redraw on window size change
  * clear HitEof flag in FileFd::Seek
  * use Google C++ Testing Framework for libapt tests
  * **support dist-upgrade options in full-upgrade**

```but note the date!

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-04
It seems that *apt* will automatically remove the deb after installation of an application is complete; debs are normally stored in */var/cache/apt/archives*. And this can be altered by setting *"APT::Keep-Downloaded-Packages"* to *"true"*.

But see [mc4man's post later in this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2319347&p=13468270#post13468270") and [https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=812111](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=812111).

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-06
> **v3.xx said:**
> We now have 'apt full-upgrade' but **'apt dist-upgrade' also seems to work**.  I don't understand that.  Running 16o4.

[Dustin Kirkland's blog post]("http://blog.dustinkirkland.com/2016/04/finally-dock-your-unity-launcher-the.html") has *sudo apt dist-upgrade -y*. So I guess it's official.

**Edited** to reword and to  remove image

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2016-04-06
What's the dconf pic (unity-launcher) for?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-07
...
```
lubuntu@lubuntu:~$ apt-cache policy apt
apt:
  Installed: 1.2.10
  Candidate: 1.2.10
  Version table:
 *** 1.2.10 500
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu xenial/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status

```
Still no mention of **dist-upgrade**. But that's covered by the part I've bolded in this quote from the man page:> Much like apt itself, its manpage is intended as an end user interface
       and as such **only mentions the most used commands and options** partly to
       not duplicate information in multiple places and partly [B]to avoid
       overwhelming readers with a cornucopia of options and details[/B].

---

### Post by montag dp on 2016-04-07
I like apt better.  It gives more info, for example 'search' shows whether a package is installed or not, unlike apt-cache search, which only shows the list.  Some other options are handy too, like -list upgradable and -s, though I'm not sure if these might be available with apt-get and apt-cache already. Plus, it uses pretty colors sometimes!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-04-10
On 16.04 autoremove will remove all kernels except 2. If I remember correctly, autoremove previously only removed one kernel. I mention that as a welcome improvement and also because the recommended command is apt autoremove.

apt also gives a progress bar sometimes.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-10
**apt show** does something helpful for those of us who have difficulty with numbers. It reports *both* Installed-Size and Download-Size in kB.

---

### Post by izznogooood on 2016-04-10
To move the launcher to the bottom ;)

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-04-10
> **izznogooood said:**
> To move the launcher to the bottom ;)

wrong thread ?

.. or are you asking ?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-04-10
> **vasa1 said:**
> It seems that *apt* will automatically remove the deb after installation of an application is complete; debs are normally stored in */var/cache/apt/archives*. And this can be altered by setting *"APT::Keep-Downloaded-Packages"* to *"true"*.
That doesn't appear to work, at least here packages are still removed. I believe that the proper command is, from a root prompt - 

```
echo 'Binary::apt::APT::Keep-Downloaded-Packages "true";' \
       > /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/01keep-debs


```

---

### Post by izznogooood on 2016-04-10
> **howefield said:**
> wrong thread ?

.. or are you asking ?

No, I was answering what the "picture" and "unity-launcher" thingy was. Clearly I answered what I thought was the last post. My bad #-o

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-10
> **mc4man said:**
> That doesn't appear to work, at least here packages are still removed. I believe that the proper command is, from a root prompt - 

```
echo 'Binary::apt::APT::Keep-Downloaded-Packages "true";' \
       > /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/01keep-debs


```
Oops! I can't remember where I read that :( I've edited my post to point to your post and included what seems to be a related bug: [https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=812111](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=812111)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-04-10
> **vasa1 said:**
> Oops! I can't remember where I read that :( I've edited my post to point to your post and included what seems to be a related bug: [https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=812111](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=812111)
The updated command is in apt's source > debian > NEWS but that's the only place that users will find that info
(other than here..

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-10
> **mc4man said:**
> The updated command is in apt's source > debian > NEWS but that's the only place that users will find that info
(other than here..So would that be /usr/share/doc/apt/NEWS.Debian.gz ?

I can't check that because I'm not on 16.04 now :(

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-04-10
> **vasa1 said:**
> So would that be /usr/share/doc/apt/NEWS.Debian.gz ?

I can't check that because I'm not on 16.04 now :(
Yes - I know gedit can open the .gz directly, not sure about other text editors

Myself I like to keep installed .debs in the archive, particularly for ppa packages as prior build packages are not archived or only barely archived as in sometimes 1 back. The space saving of not keeping the .debs is generally irrelevant & if doing a re-install it saves on downloading again.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-10
> **mc4man said:**
> Yes - I know gedit can open the .gz directly, not sure about other text editors

Myself I like to keep installed .debs in the archive, particularly for ppa packages as prior build packages are not archived or only barely archived as in sometimes 1 back. The space saving of not keeping the .debs is generally irrelevant & if doing a re-install it saves on downloading again.
I could open the corresponding .gz using archive manager and then open with mousepad (in 14.04).

I too feel that the default should be to retain debs and I don't know whether that feature will remain available with apt-get (as opposed to apt). Or is this a fundamental change affecting both apt and apt-get? ???

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-11
BTW, the removal of debs post-installation seems to be a consequence of a bug filed in 2002!

See  [apt: apt-get clean should run weekly]("https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=160743") and [comment # 17]("https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=160743#117") there.

Here's what /usr/share/doc/apt/NEWS.Debian.gz for apt 2.10 has:> apt (1.2~exp1) experimental; urgency=medium

  [ Automatic removal of debs after install ]
  After packages are successfully installed by apt(8),
  the corresponding .deb package files will be
  removed from the /var/cache/apt/archives cache directory.

  This can be changed by setting the apt configuration option
    "Binary::apt::APT::Keep-Downloaded-Packages" to "true". E.g:

  # echo 'Binary::apt::APT::Keep-Downloaded-Packages "true";' \
      > /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/01keep-debs

  Please note that the behavior of apt-get is unchanged. The
  downloaded debs will be kept in the cache directory after they
  are installed. To enable the behavior for other tools, you can set
  "APT::Keep-Downloaded-Packages" to false.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-12
> **mc4man said:**
> Yes - I know **gedit can open the .gz directly**, not sure about other text editors
...
Can you please clarify the part in bold? If you double-click on *NEWS.Debian.gz* does this file open directly with gedit without first opening an archive manager screen in which you have to use "open with" and *then* select gedit? Have you installed some gedit plugin?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-04-12
> **vasa1 said:**
> Can you please clarify the part in bold? If you double-click on *NEWS.Debian.gz* does this file open directly with gedit without first opening an archive manager screen in which you have to use "open with" and *then* select gedit? Have you installed some gedit plugin?
I just meant the file didn't need to be extracted first. Seems most text editors can do that.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2016-04-12
> **mc4man said:**
> I just meant the file didn't need to be extracted first. Seems most text editors can do that.Okay, that's what I see as well.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2016-04-12
So only 14 (Debian) yrs?. I guess that's like 2 yrs. for everyone else..
The whole thing seems silly as what was a big hdd back then you would be hard pressed to buy now & as I remember there is a time & size limit to the archives anyway. 
The time there could of been better spent elsewhere...

Ex. - 
> $ apt-config dump | grep Archives
APT::Archives "";
APT::Archives::MaxAge "30";
APT::Archives::MinAge "2";
APT::Archives::MaxSize "500";


---

