---
title: "External monitor goes blank"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cusri2004 on 2010-05-17
Hi there,

This looks like a common issue. I have tried solutions suggested in  various forums, none have worked so far. 

After the login screen, my laptop screen is active but the external LCD  monitor hooked to my laptop goes blank which was active to that point. 

Here are quite a few details which might help you in diagnosing the  problem

alt + clt + f1 takes the monitor screen to command line but alt + clt +  f7 fails to bring it back to GUI. The monitor just freezes!!

Contents /etc/X11/xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool,  using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades  *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically  updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Graphics driver details from 'lspci -v | less'

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960  Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0c)
        Subsystem: Hewlett-Packard Company Device 30c0
        Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 29
        Memory at e4600000 (64-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=1M]
        Memory at d0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
        I/O ports at 4000 [size=8]
        Capabilities: <access denied>
        Kernel driver in use: i915
        Kernel modules: i915

System specs: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU     T9300  @ 2.50GHz

---

### Post by cusri2004 on 2010-05-18
Bump

---

### Post by cusri2004 on 2010-05-18
More information

Some recent system updates seem to have partially fixed the problem. Still having issues right after login. The monitor goes blank and after a while changes its resolution and then goes blank again; and very dim flashing in places. Even slightest of movement of the laptop seem to disturb the monitor display. If I close the lid or move it, it has immediate effect on the display. 

The set Monitor preferences are changing automatically. One more thing is that if I choose two different resolutions one for monitor and one for laptop and select both of them 'on', the panels appear on the laptop screen and files and folders on the monitor. So I have to turn-off laptop monitor which then enables full display on the external monitor.

---

### Post by cusri2004 on 2010-05-24
bump ](*,)

---

