---
title: "11.10 - Application Switcher disappeared!"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hopefulkayaker on 2011-10-15
I have been running 11.10 for a few days now, and last night a really obnoxious thing happened - the alt-tab application switcher disappeared! I hit alt-tab, and nothing happens. I rebooted, and still nothing.

Given the removal of running applications from the panel in Unity, the application swticher becomes more important...

---

### Post by staticd on 2011-10-15
Fully sympathize with the loss of the switcher applet.

Try this: make a new account and login- if every thing is fine then its because of some config files.
 try this: (from the new account)
```

gksudo nautilus --no-desktop

```

go to your default home folder(of your bad account) and press ctrl+h. o or move all the directories begining with '.'

like .config .gnome etc

dont delete your .mozilla or you'll lose your firefox bookmarks.

login to your default account.

good luck!

---

### Post by outofthecave on 2011-10-16
> **staticd said:**
> move all the directories begining with '.'
like .config .gnome etc

I'd say that's a bad idea, since it erases ALL your configuration files.  This doesn't necessarily break anything, but it's really tedious to configure all applications again.

I use Compiz window manager and it works fine.  In the compizconfig-settings-manager you can set your favorite application switcher and configure it.  If you're using Compiz as well, have a look at the compizconfig-settings-manager.

---

### Post by hopefulkayaker on 2011-10-17
Maybe I should start another thread for it, but CompizConfig Settings Manager doesn't work for me for some reason. None of the changes I've made in it have actually taken place.

---

### Post by hopefulkayaker on 2011-10-17
Running

```
unity --replace
``` 

in the Dash brought my switcher back!

---

### Post by danielangyal on 2011-11-01
> **hopefulkayaker said:**
> Running

```
unity --replace
```in the Dash brought my switcher back!

Did it for me to!!

Awh, i've missed it for some time now....

---

