---
title: "8.04 new themes?!?!"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by X40nick on 2008-04-25
Hi,

I wanted to know where the "new" themes are supposed to be? From what I could see from artwork concepts, it was supposed to be very attractive.

It looks just like 6.06LTS.

Where can I get the new theme from? It looked great!!! 

Thank you.

Nick.

---

### Post by luisromangz on 2008-04-25
The new theme for hardy was postponed for hardy +1.

---

### Post by ShadowGray on 2008-04-25
Yeah, I was really looking forward to a new theme.

But I guess the new wallpaper is much nicer than the last "stripes/waves" one or the elephant skin one.

---

### Post by oo-boon-too on 2008-04-25
Yes, when I logged in the first time I was [emphasis]very impressed with the Wallpaper;)

---

### Post by The Spy on 2008-04-26
What is Hardy +1?!

---

### Post by The Spy on 2008-04-26
Never mind I found the answer. It's Hardy Heron 8.10 for those who have the same question on their minds.

---

### Post by X40nick on 2008-04-26
When will Heron +1 come out? And why was it postponed for the later release?

Thank you.

Nick.

---

### Post by X40nick on 2008-04-26
Found out 8.10 is going to be out in October :( Has anyone managed to do the theme and put it for download?

Thank you.

Nick

---

### Post by KOld Iron on 2008-04-26
Ubuntu releases new versions twice a year, typically in April and October, which leads to the know version numbers. Last digit of the year (8 for 2008 ) plus "." plus number of month (04 for April or 10 for October). Therefore the versions released this year will be 8.04 and 8.10 (just as last year's releases were 7.04 and 7.10). In addition, each release has a code name, e.g. 7.10 is Gutsy Gibbon and 8.04 is Hardy Heron (8.10 will be Intrepid Ibex).

So Hardy+1 means simply one version after Hardy, which is, as you found out already yourself, 8.10 coming out in October :-)

To answer your question: The theme was postponed, because 8.04 is a LTS (Long Term Support) release and it was found that it is more important to focus available resources on creating a very stable release and thus do bug fixing instead of creating new theme(s).

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-04-26
8.10 [  will apparently](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel/2008-February/025136.html) be named **[Intrepid](http://www.answers.com/intrepid) [Ibex](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ibex)**. :>

---

### Post by X40nick on 2008-04-26
I see, so that users can have it running for 3 years. It needs to be solid and stable.

I would be really grateful if anyone knows a theme where the Applications Places Systems bar is curved? 

Like it has been coloured in, but by the system option it is a semi-circle? Or just some great orange themes that will match Ubuntu?

Thank you.

Nick

---

