---
title: "*.iso.volume"
date: 2009-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gfei on 2009-10-22
I have a file showing up on my desktop with an extension of .iso.volume which I can't seem to delete.  I get an error when i try which says:

"The specified location is not supported"

At one point I had copied a dvd and made an iso which is how it got there to begin with.  The file does not show up when I go through the terminal or if I pull up the desktop in a nautilus window... any thoughts on how to get rid of this file??

Thanks

---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-10-22
Enter **mount** in a terminal and see if the filename shows up anywhere in the output.

Edit: Sorry, I'm a cli freak and always think there first.  A better thing would be to right-click on the icon on the Desktop and select 'Unmount Volume' if it's available.

---

### Post by Gfei on 2009-10-22
Nope, doesn't show up in the output.  I don't get any option to unmount it under the right click menu either... Other than the annoying icon on desktop the file doesn't actually seem to exist....

---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-10-22
That's the thing, generally when you have something mounted, an icon will show up on the desktop but not in the desktop folder through Nautilus or the terminal.

Would you mind posting the full output of **mount**?

Of course, it could just be a bug or the result of a program malfunction.  Have you tried logging out or rebooting?

---

### Post by Gfei on 2009-10-23
Here is the full output for the mount command:
> chris@chris-laptop:~$ mount
/dev/sda1 on / type ext3 (rw,relatime,errors=remount-ro)
tmpfs on /lib/init/rw type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
sysfs on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
tmpfs on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw,nosuid,nodev)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,noexec,nosuid,gid=5,mode=620)
fusectl on /sys/fs/fuse/connections type fusectl (rw)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.28-16-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw,mode=755)
/dev/sda3 on /home type ext3 (rw,relatime)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
gvfs-fuse-daemon on /home/chris/.gvfs type fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon (rw,nosuid,nodev,user=chris)
chris@chris-laptop:~$ 


I've rebooted several times and the file still remains...

---

