---
title: "GT 240 + 256.53 driver + ALSA 1.0.23 = HDMI audio!?"
date: 2010-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leespa on 2010-09-01
Hi All,

I am trying to build an XBMC box on minimal ubuntu 10.04; this PC has an atom330 mobo with integrated vid + audio. I added in an GT 240 to repurpose it for XBMC; its the Asus ENGT240 SILENT/DI/1GD3.

Have this connected to a Denon, AVR-3808CI which can play every codec...also tried HDMI direct into TV as well.

I have everything running smoothly but NOT A SOLITARY PEEP OUT OF THE HDMI AUDIO even though all guides I've seen seem to suggest that mine should be working at this point.

Devices listed in 'aplay -l' and when I try playback something no sound or even acknowledgement from the amp there is an input change.

**Has anyone gotten ALSA 1.0.23 and *NEW* 256.x drivers to work? If not please post what version of Nvidia drivers do work with this setup?**

Followed this guide with no love: [http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240](http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240)

-----------------------------------------------------
Summary is that 'aplay -l' shows me the Nvidia card, but doing an aplay -D plughw:1,3 fraggle_rock.wav for instance doesn't fail but no sound.

And yes I do check Alasmixer to make sure SPDIF not muted.

Things I have tried:
1) integrated audio enabled/disable
2) ALSA 1.0.23 through script or PPA
3) numerous 'enable_msi=0 probe_mask=0xffff,0xfff2' combinations through /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf OR /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf
4) all manner of plughw combinations

It may be that the 256.x drivers just don't work with ALSA 1.0.23 yet? Anyways, here's the gory details in attached text file...have wasted 12+ hours on this already. Any help appreciated.

THANKS IN ADVANCE.

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-09-03
This is PARTIALLY solved....I will mark it as SOLVED when I get new Nvidia drivers reloaded and back to same spot I am in.

-------------------------------

Long story - short = YOU HAVE TO ALSA RUN THESE TESTS WITH X RUNNING!

This HTPC is an Ubuntu minimal install -- thus I have been booting into the shell for every change made to ALSA, nvidia drivers, etc. My HTPC was/is connected to the AMP and showing login info, etc on the plasma TV too so I thought this was OK.

I have gone back-forth-back-forth 100 ways over last few days and all the while cat /proc/asound/card0/eld#* remained empty.

I also recalled seeing some HDMI specific info in the /var/log/syslog at certain points, but was never sure how/where it got there sporadically.

Anyways, saw some old Toshiba forum post about audio not working when not using the HDMI for video so I ran xinit xbmc and watched /var/log/syslog...It showed a bunch of new HDMI info, /proc/asound/card0/eld#* was no longer empty, and now sudo aplay -D plughw: tests work too!

---

### Post by jocefus on 2010-09-06
after reading your attached txt...

in your /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf you already have a 'options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0' line. my alsa-base.conf does not have that line, but you should just be able to add to that line 'probe_mask=0xffff,0xfff2'. that will get your aplay only seeing the 1 relevant spdif (HDMI) output on the video card.

that is the only thing I see, though I am not sure what the 4 switches are actually for, because I was able to get audio through 3 of the 4 if I remember correctly.

using lucid desktop I also had to create the file /etc/asound.conf and add to it:
                pcm.pulse {
                    type pulse
                }
                ctl.pulse {
                    type pulse
                }    
                pcm.!default {
                    type pulse
                }
                ctl.!default {
                    type pulse
                }
this got flash/firefox audio working correctly through pulseaudio, but everything else worked without this.

All other configurations/settings I made was through the sound preferences gui in gnome and alsamixer in terminal.

Sounds like a alsa/pulse config issue. I had an old ~/.asoundrc file that caused all kinds of problems on an old install. I don't know what all xbmc does config-wise.

---

### Post by ntetreau on 2010-09-17
Hi, just to let you know, my audio (stereo only) over hdmi worked out of the box in ubuntu 10.10 when using the video through hdmi.  You might want to give it a shot. This is using 256.x or the new 260.x nvidia drivers.

Now I need to figure out how to get 5.1 working!

EDIT> Mine is an ASUS silent engt240 1Gb by the way.

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-09-17
Hi,

I am ONLY testing this in XBMC [Dharma Beta1] on a minimal Ubuntu 10.04 install. 

At the moment I have 5.1 audio + video working over HDMI; supports AC3 + DTS as well.

Therefore, you may have pulseaudio installed and enabled if you're using Ubuntu 10.10 desktop.

This guide here has been very helpful.
[http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240](http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240)

---

### Post by ntetreau on 2010-09-25
> **leespa said:**
> Hi,

I am ONLY testing this in XBMC [Dharma Beta1] on a minimal Ubuntu 10.04 install. 

At the moment I have 5.1 audio + video working over HDMI; supports AC3 + DTS as well.

Therefore, you may have pulseaudio installed and enabled if you're using Ubuntu 10.10 desktop.

This guide here has been very helpful.
[http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240](http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240)

Well that's interesting.  I only got stereo sound out with the same video card as yours.  It does work in 5.1 in windows though.

I also followed the same guide as you linked to, but adding the 
```
options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0
```
did not reduce my number of probed cards to 1 from 4.

So you installed alsa 1.0.23 on 10.04, you hint that you uninstalled pulseaudio, was that necessary to get 5.1, DTS, etc. working?

Would you mind describing how you got this working?

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-09-25
> **ntetreau said:**
> Well that's interesting.  I only got stereo sound out with the same video card as yours.  It does work in 5.1 in windows though.

I also followed the same guide as you linked to, but adding the 
```
options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0
```
did not reduce my number of probed cards to 1 from 4.

So you installed alsa 1.0.23 on 10.04, you hint that you uninstalled pulseaudio, was that necessary to get 5.1, DTS, etc. working?

Would you mind describing how you got this working?

Hi,

I NEVER had pulseaudio installed. I am using a minimal [12 MB] iso ubuntu install that only selects absolute min packages; no desktop GNOME, or KDE, etc for instance.

Therefore, no pulseaudio on my system described above.

---

### Post by ntetreau on 2010-09-25
> **leespa said:**
> Hi,

I NEVER had pulseaudio installed. I am using a minimal [12 MB] iso ubuntu install that only selects absolute min packages; no desktop GNOME, or KDE, etc for instance.

Therefore, no pulseaudio on my system described above.

I will try XBMCFreak tonight and see if pulseaudio is the problem.  

This you have to modify alsa or any of the asound.conf or /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf files to get things working in 5.1?

Thanks.

---

### Post by ntetreau on 2010-09-25
Well, I installed XBMCFreak and I'm both very excited about it and confused.

I found that 5.1 DTS output works out of the box, which is really great.  However, I'd like to get it working on my normal Ubuntu installation.  Unfortunately, I have no idea what the difference (other than pulseadio for example) between my two installations.  

Both use alsa 1.0.23, both find the same 4 Nvidia cards and neither of them use an .asound or a /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf file...

Do you have any idea where to start?  Any help appreciated.

P.S.: We could change the xbmc wiki to mention that with XBMCFreak we get more than just stereo output with this card.

---

### Post by ntetreau on 2010-09-25
Well, turns out it actually works when uninstalling pulseaudio.  I do get surround 5.1 in XBMC, it's actually beautiful, crisp sound!

However, turns out removing pulseaudio does break a few things though, including totem, rhythmbox and some , but not all of Flash videos.

Anyway, now I know in which direction I need to work bit I think I'll enjoy the 5.1 sound a little longer before digging in again.  Thanks for the tip.

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-09-27
> **ntetreau said:**
> Well, turns out it actually works when uninstalling pulseaudio.  I do get surround 5.1 in XBMC, it's actually beautiful, crisp sound!

However, turns out removing pulseaudio does break a few things though, including totem, rhythmbox and some , but not all of Flash videos.

Anyway, now I know in which direction I need to work bit I think I'll enjoy the 5.1 sound a little longer before digging in again.  Thanks for the tip.


Good to hear that you got 5.1 audio working. Sorry I couldn't respond sooner; busy weekend. 

I don't believe that you can get a normal Ubuntu desktop working as per normal WITHOUT pulseaudio. As I understand it pulseaudio works on top of ALSA - so to speak - and is required for a lot of the things you said are missing without it.

My box with the Atom 330 + GT 240 is a XBMC dedicated box so no use for pulseaudio.

At the moment I have DTS + AC3 5.1 bitstreaming to my amp. My *next* step is to try tweaking the config to send 5.1 LPCM Dolby TrueHD and DTS-HD MA.

*BEFORE* I move on the HD testing I'll post my full ALSA, etc config for others and my own backup purposes. Will be a day or two as well likely; look back here.

---

### Post by tedder on 2010-09-28
*lurking*. Curious what you discover.

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-09-28
> **tedder said:**
> *lurking*. Curious what you discover.
 
Are you referring to the Dolby TrueHD + DTS-HD MA support? If so I haven't made any changes yet to test, but this is where I'm at. 
 
**AFAIK this is what the current landscape looks like with Nvidia ION1/2 and GT2x0 series:**
-- Dolby TrueHD can be decoded and sent as/up to 8-channel LPCM 
-- DTS-HD MA can also be sent as/up to 8-channel LPCM *however* you need to transcode the DTS-HD to multichannel FLAC ahead of time
 
^^CORRECT ANY OF THE ABOVE IF YOU KNOW OTHERWISE^^
 
[COLOR=red]***I also just came across mention of the new GT4x0 series of cards that WILL SUPPORT Dolby TrueHD + DTS-HD MA BITSTREAMING.** :P*[/COLOR]
 
[[COLOR=red]*http://www.avsforum.com/avs-vb/showthread.php?t=1262246&page=12*[/COLOR]]("http://www.avsforum.com/avs-vb/showthread.php?t=1262246&page=12")
[COLOR=red]*- GTX 480/470/465: based on the original GF100; no HD audio bitstreaming, but with VP4*[/COLOR]
[COLOR=red]*- GTX 460 and GTS 455 (when?): based on GF104 with 336sp/288sp respectively; 192 or 256-bit GDDR5; HD audio bitstreaming and VP4*[/COLOR]
[COLOR=red]*- GTS 450 (September 13) and GT 440 (by the end of October, $99): based on GF106 with 192sp/144sp respectively; 128-bit GDDR5/DDR3; HD audio bitstreaming and VP4*[/COLOR]
[COLOR=red]*- GT 430 (October 12) and GT 420 (OEM only): based on GF108 with 96sp/48sp respectively; 128-bit DDR3; HD audio bitstreaming and VP4*[/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=red]*The GT430 or 440 for instance might be a good option for HTPC; small form factor and support for HD audio bitsreaming.*[/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=red]*Therefore, I think at the moment I will go ahead with the testing, but also keep an eye on these new cards. I would much rather buy another $100 card, swap it out and upgrade drivers *VERSUS* transcode all current DTS-HD MA movies to FLAC.*[/COLOR]
 
------------------------------------------------------
UPDATE:
 
So it seems that bitstreaming of HD audio under Linux may be a long-way off even with these new cards.
 
I am going to pursue the config changes for multichannel LPCM/FLAC + try out transcoding Dolby TrueHD & DTS-HD MA to multichannel FLAC...such that its then sent as a LPCM via XBMC.
 
See here for discussion on that topic.
[http://forum.xbmc.org/showpost.php?p=614045&postcount=11](http://forum.xbmc.org/showpost.php?p=614045&postcount=11)

---

### Post by tedder on 2010-09-28
> **leespa said:**
> Are you referring to the Dolby TrueHD + DTS-HD MA support? If so I haven't made any changes yet to test, but this is where I'm at. 

No, I'm just talking about generic digital, like you mentioned here:
> *BEFORE* I move on the HD testing I'll post my full ALSA, etc config for others and my own backup purposes. Will be a day or two as well likely; look back here.

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-09-29
> **tedder said:**
> No, I'm just talking about generic digital, like you mentioned here:
 
**So here are the gory details.**
PC = atom 330 + GT 240
OS = ubuntu minimal 10.04 64-bit; no desktop, no pulseaudio
Nvidia Drivers = 256.53
ALSA = 1.0.23 installed via script [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6589810](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=6589810)
XBMC = Dharma Beta 1
Current Functionality = Full 5.1 surround, decodes and plays everything properly such as 2-channel FLAC, AC3, DTS.
Mobo settings = Integrated Audio is DISABLED; no need for it.
ALSA_HDMI = only shows 1 'port'; achieved using the probe_mask option
 
**Other Notes:**
a) I followed this guide for configuring the GT 2x0 for HDMI audio, video: [http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240](http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240)
b) to test using aplay or speaker-test make sure X is running or tests won't output sound; see my earlier posts
c) if you are using the Nvidia binary drivers like above and ALSA upgrade script you *may* need to rerun both after a kernel upgrade; not a big deal for my XBMC box but worth noting.
 
```
 
xbmc@xbmc$ nvidia-settings -v
nvidia-settings: version 256.53 (buildmeister@builder97.nvidia.com) Fri Aug 27 20:55:01 PDT 2010 ....
 
xbmc@xbmc$ uname -a
Linux xbmc 2.6.32-24-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Fri Aug 20 14:21:58 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux
 
xbmc@xbmc$ cat /proc/asound/version 
Advanced Linux Sound Architecture Driver Version 1.0.23.
Compiled on Sep 6 2010 for kernel 2.6.32-24-generic (SMP).
 
xbmc@xbmc$ aplay -l
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 3: NVIDIA HDMI [NVIDIA HDMI]
Subdevices: 0/1
Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
 
xbmc@xbmc$ aplay -L
null
Discard all samples (playback) or generate zero samples (capture)
hdmi:CARD=NVidia
HDA NVidia, NVIDIA HDMI
HDMI Audio Output

``` 
 
```
/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf 
```
 
- see attachment
- left as is; shouldn't need to modify after ALSA 1.0.23 installation script does it thing
- could likely put sound.conf info in here and not require sound.conf
 
```
/usr/share/alsa/cards/HDA-Intel.conf 
```
- see attachment
- also didn't touch after the ALSA 1.0.23 upgrade script
 
```
 
/etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf 
options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0 probe_mask=0xfff2

```
 
- the 0xfff2 applies since I only have 1 sound device in the system; internal soundcard disabled
 
```
 
/etc/asound.conf
pcm.!default hdmi:NVidia
pcm:iec958 hdmi:NVidia

```
- added as per guide's suggestion
 
 
 
```
 
XBMC Dharma Beta 1 Audio Settings
 
Audio Output = HDMI
Speaker Config = 5.1
Audio Output Device = HDMI
Passthrough Device = HDMI

```
 
- screenshot attached as well
 
I think that is everything. This works well for my XBMC system. Am planning on breaking it soon to test out mutlichannel FLAC/LPCM for lossless audio codecs. :)

---

### Post by ICANSEEYOU7687 on 2010-10-05
Im thinking about getting this card

[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814121354](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814121354)

same ones I believe.  So can you get 5.1 sound in ubuntu 10.04 with this? Not really too familiar with XBMC Dharma.  Really wanting to upgrade my ATI HD 4200 integrated chip, lol

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-05
> **ICANSEEYOU7687 said:**
> Im thinking about getting this card

[http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814121354](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814121354)

same ones I believe.  So can you get 5.1 sound in ubuntu 10.04 with this? Not really too familiar with XBMC Dharma.  Really wanting to upgrade my ATI HD 4200 integrated chip, lol

Yes, 5.1 AC3, DTS and multichannel flac all working well with smooth 1080p. 

Only thing is I'd go for a silent version; I have this dude [http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814121369&cm_re=ENGT240-_-14-121-369-_-Product](http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16814121369&cm_re=ENGT240-_-14-121-369-_-Product)

-AND- of course I'd recommend a Linux base as well to take advantage of the VDPAU acceleration.

---

### Post by ICANSEEYOU7687 on 2010-10-05
Thanks for the quick reply!

Newegg appears to be out, I dunno if they will be getting more.

Is the fan really that loud on the other model?

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-05
No problem.  To be honest for xbmc you'd likely be just as fine a silent GT 210 or 220. There should be lots of options for those...

---

### Post by ICANSEEYOU7687 on 2010-10-05
Sorry not to highjack the thread....

But looking at the list
[http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240](http://wiki.xbmc.org/index.php?title=HOW-TO_set_up_HDMI_audio_on_nVidia_GeForce_G210,_GT220,_or_GT240)

it seems that certain brands of GT 240's have different audio issues... (some with none)
Does it really matter now?  Or will all the cards pretty much work? and I use this server for FTPes, torrents, samba (for my windows laptop), and mainly 1080p video (HDMI to a 40 inc samsung)

I guess a gt 220 would prob handle this too....

And is XBMC really worth it over vlc, or mplayer?

Thanks for the quick replies, I really appreciate it

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-05
I think the wiki is just slightly outdated / not as much info in there as there could be.

The only real important part for getting proper audio + video over HDMI was installing ALSA 1.0.23.

Put all your media on a big fat server and play it back through your home theater via a light-weight HTPC / XBMC box. 

Treat it as a dedicated media appliance. Its very slick.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Have a look here too at one of the nicer XBMC skins...  [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qP7oQova9cA](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qP7oQova9cA)   ...decide for yourself. ;-)

---

### Post by lnthai2002 on 2010-10-12
I got the same card asus GT240EN silent, I was battle with karmic for the last few days to get the sound work on hdmi. No hope. First, i got the nvidia driver from vdpau ppa (195, not 256) then install alsa 1.0.23 using the script from a link on xbmc forum. But when I test aplay to test, nothing come out to my speakers (i connected the hdmi from my GT240 to a receiver). Can any one post a detail instruction how to set up the whole thing?
Thanks in advance

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-12
See post #15 for all the gory details. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9904158&postcount=15](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9904158&postcount=15)

NOTE: I am using ubuntu minimal 10.04 x64; no desktop, no pulseaudio.

When doing the aplay or speaker-test to see if there's output over HDMI I *also* had to have X running...meaning I started up XBMC and then ran the speaker-test over SSH. When X wasn't running I got no errors, but no sound either.

This help at all?

---

### Post by lnthai2002 on 2010-10-12
Thanks for the info, i'm blind, too much info on my desktop at the moment :P Just a question, where do u get 256 driver? U installed it from ppa or manually using the binary from nvidia? Mine is 195 pulled from vdpau ppa. Also, i would consider upgrade to 10.04 if kernel 2.6.34 is available (so i dont have to compile alsa :P) I'll try your guide today after work.

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-12
I dloaded and installed Nvidia drivers.

Down-side to this is you need to re-run driver install every once in a while due to a kernel change for instance. Not that hard to do if you keep file handy.

---

### Post by yamaha200 on 2010-10-12
Hey all,
long story short is:

I've got a GT220 with the 256.53 driver and alsa 1.0.23. I've followed all the instructions on the xbmc wiki, but I'll be darned if I can get things narrowed down to a single hdmi device in aplay -l. I can get 4 or 0, nothing in between. I swear I have tried all possible iterations of enable_msi and probe_mask options and never get anything but 4 or 0 results.

Full details here: [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=155977](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=155977)

Any suggestions?

thanks,
laura

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-12
> **yamaha200 said:**
> Hey all,
long story short is:

I've got a GT220 with the 256.53 driver and alsa 1.0.23. I've followed all the instructions on the xbmc wiki, but I'll be darned if I can get things narrowed down to a single hdmi device in aplay -l. I can get 4 or 0, nothing in between. I swear I have tried all possible iterations of enable_msi and probe_mask options and never get anything but 4 or 0 results.

Full details here: [http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=155977](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=155977)

Any suggestions?

thanks,
laura

Hi,

Can you pls post /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf and /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf?

NOTE: if onboard sound disabled you should ONLY need this line:

options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0 probe_mask=0xfff2

Can likely be put in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf and don't need any sound.conf...I have mine in sound.conf but I just havent gotten around to moving it.

If this doesn't work only thing I can think of is difference with your older kernel or something unique with GT220; doubtful though...

---

### Post by nfishbone on 2010-10-13
> **leespa said:**
> Hi,

Can you pls post /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf and /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf?

NOTE: if onboard sound disabled you should ONLY need this line:

options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0 probe_mask=0xfff2

Can likely be put in /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf and don't need any sound.conf...I have mine in sound.conf but I just havent gotten around to moving it.

If this doesn't work only thing I can think of is difference with your older kernel or something unique with GT220; doubtful though...

Yes! Thanks You! After searching around I finally found this thread & post. Adding "options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0 probe_mask=0xfff2 " to /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf , gave me sound through hdmi. So to laura this is definatly the fix, I was having the same problem with my gt240 as you are with your gt220. Thanks Again

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-13
No problem; glad it worked. ;-)

---

### Post by yamaha200 on 2010-10-13
soooooo close!
I must have had a typo when I tried that option line because I tried it again and now aplay -l shows:

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 3: NVIDIA HDMI [NVIDIA HDMI]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

alsamixer shows a single (unmuted) S/PDIF.

speaker-test and aplay now report errors if I try to use anything other than plughw:0,3

But, sadly, still no sound. :(

I do not have an /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf, though I do have /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base. Appending ".conf" to it didn't change anything after a reboot. File is attached (with changed extension to make the forum happy). Though at this point I'm inclined to think it is something silly that should be obvious...

checklist (sanity check):
-user is member of audio group
-hdmi cable and tv input known to be good for both audio and video
-volume on tv turned up (WAY up)
-source is not muted in alsamixer

what am i missing....

Thanks for all the help so far!
laura

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-13
Q: is this a full desktop or a minimal ubuntu install?

Reason I ask is that when I first tested this was a minimal ubuntu install that booted to console -- meaning NO desktop or GUI installed. ONLY app using GUI was XBMC.

By chance I found that **you have to have X (a GUI) running for these tests to work.** In my case this meant I ran 'xinit xbmc' on the machine and then from another PC over ssh ran commands like 'aplay -D plughw:0,3 /usr/share/sounds/alsa/Noise.wav'

Only by doing this did I get sounds; no X running, no sounds.

-----------------------

If you are testing this via desktop perhaps temporarily uninstall pulseaudio to see if that helps with debugging...

---

### Post by yamaha200 on 2010-10-14
> **leespa said:**
> Q: is this a full desktop or a minimal ubuntu install?

Reason I ask is that when I first tested this was a minimal ubuntu install that booted to console -- meaning NO desktop or GUI installed. ONLY app using GUI was XBMC.

-----------------------

If you are testing this via desktop perhaps temporarily uninstall pulseaudio to see if that helps with debugging...

yep, mythbuntu puts a GUI on so X is running. I'd noticed your posts earlier about making sure X was running :)  WM is xfce I think.

I can try taking off pulse, probably not until tomorrow night though. I've seen some people saying that pulse was somehow integrated into the ubuntu desktop so that removing it disables several things? suppose I could deal with that later if I actually get to the point where I know whether its causing the problem.

laura

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-14
Perhaps try killing / stopping pulseaudio BEFORE uninstalling it.

---

### Post by lnthai2002 on 2010-10-16
hey leespa,
Thanks to your guide, I finally got the sound over hdmi.However the keytone in xbmc is not working, your xbmc audio config screenshot looks different than mine, I dont have that many option on receiver. I got my xbmc from [https://launchpad.net/~team-xbmc/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~team-xbmc/+archive/ppa) I dont know which version of xbmc i am runnning. Where do you get that version?

---

### Post by leespa on 2010-10-16
The PPA you reference is the official PPA; still stuck on 9.11. See this post...section SVN PPA.

[http://forum.xbmc.org/showthread.php?t=33327](http://forum.xbmc.org/showthread.php?t=33327)

I just upgraded to XBMC Dharma Beta 3....in the Confluence and other skins you can tell version under System Info.

---

### Post by IAmNotAUser on 2010-10-20
> **yamaha200 said:**
> soooooo close!
I must have had a typo when I tried that option line because I tried it again and now aplay -l shows:

**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: NVidia [HDA NVidia], device 3: NVIDIA HDMI [NVIDIA HDMI]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

alsamixer shows a single (unmuted) S/PDIF.

speaker-test and aplay now report errors if I try to use anything other than plughw:0,3

But, sadly, still no sound. :(

I do not have an /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf, though I do have /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base. Appending ".conf" to it didn't change anything after a reboot. File is attached (with changed extension to make the forum happy). Though at this point I'm inclined to think it is something silly that should be obvious...

checklist (sanity check):
-user is member of audio group
-hdmi cable and tv input known to be good for both audio and video
-volume on tv turned up (WAY up)
-source is not muted in alsamixer

what am i missing....

Thanks for all the help so far!
laura

Hi there Laura,

Don't know if you found your solution, but mine was to use devices 7 or 9, not 3...however I don't yet know the probe mask for those - and also my sound comes out very tinny - but I have sound! One small goal at a time ;)

---

### Post by lnthai2002 on 2010-10-22
probe_mask=0xfff2 doesnt work for me, i only get sound from device 7, not 3. So the first step, remove prob_mask, everything works but i have some random crash. I though device 7 is 0xfff6 but when i put that in, it show both 7 and 3 and my dts sound is gone, only pcm left. Anyone have idea how that mask work?

---

### Post by yamaha200 on 2010-10-30
Well, darn. Having a whole weekend free to work on this, I decided to start from scratch. I did a clean install of mythbuntu 10.10, so I got the new version of alsa installed by default, newer kernel, etc.

I am right back to the same place. Using the recommended settings I have it down to a single source showing up (unmuted) in alsamixer, and plughw:0,3 is the only combo I can pass to aplay without it throwing an error. It acts like its playing a sound, but no sound comes out :(

It appears to me that mythbuntu has pulse audio disabled by default, but I went ahead and followed the pulse audio directions that are now included on the xmbc wiki.

User is still in the audio group, asound.conf is as recommended, no .asoundrc, the snd_hda_codec_nvhdmi appears in lsmod, the linux backports things doesn't exist...

In the process I have also lost working mythtv cause i can't upgrade my database schema. 2 steps backwards and none forwards yet :(

any other suggestions on things to try for sound?

thanks,
laura


> **IAmNotAUser said:**
> Hi there Laura,

Don't know if you found your solution, but mine was to use devices 7 or 9, not 3...however I don't yet know the probe mask for those - and also my sound comes out very tinny - but I have sound! One small goal at a time ;)

---

### Post by srd on 2010-12-30
Asus ENGT240 + Ubuntu 10.10
My setup with ubuntu 10.10
Install ubuntu and all updates.

Istall nvidia drivers.

Remove pulseaudio
  ```
sudo apt-get purge pulseaudio
```
Restart
Disable onboard audio (BIOS)

Enter this in /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf 
  ```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf
```
Paste:
 ```
options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0 probe_mask=0xfff2
```
Enter this in /etc/asound.conf
  ```
sudo gedit /etc/asound.conf
```
Paste:
  ```
pcm.!default hdmi:NVidia
pcm:iec958 hdmi:NVidia
```
Restart
And voila 5.1 sound working 
PCM, multichannel PCM, bitsteam (DD/DD-EX/DTS/DTS-ES)
I use for music DeadBeef
[http://img407.imageshack.us/i/screenshotig.png/](http://img407.imageshack.us/i/screenshotig.png/)

---

### Post by ffp on 2011-01-05
Hello,
> **srd said:**
> Asus ENGT240 + Ubuntu 10.10
My setup with ubuntu 10.10
Install ubuntu and all updates.

Istall nvidia drivers.

Remove pulseaudio
  ```
sudo apt-get purge pulseaudio
```
Restart
Disable onboard audio (BIOS)

Enter this in /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf 
  ```
sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/sound.conf
```
Paste:
 ```
options snd-hda-intel enable_msi=0 probe_mask=0xfff2
```
Enter this in /etc/asound.conf
  ```
sudo gedit /etc/asound.conf
```
Paste:
  ```
pcm.!default hdmi:NVidia
pcm:iec958 hdmi:NVidia
```
Restart


These instructions worked perfectly for me.

GT 240 Zotac 1GB DDR3 Silent
Maverick with mythbuntu
Amplifier A/V Sony STR-DH810

Thank you very much to all :p:p:p

---

