---
title: "10.4 cannot shutdown"
date: 2010-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by _simon_ on 2010-04-26
Clean install of 10.4

I select shutdown and it takes me back to the login screen. Trying to shutdown from that screen does the same.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Sirilos on 2010-05-01
Hello!

I also had the same problem and solved it today... :guitar:

I had to read this page >

[http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Herunterfahren](http://wiki.ubuntuusers.de/Herunterfahren)

Sorry it is unfortunately in german... You don't have to read the above link if the following steps will help you as it worked out for me... 

This is what I did>

1. Type in the Terminal 

> sudo gedit **etc/default/grub**You are supposed to scroll down and find the line:
> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"in which the option "acpi=force" should be added in the line like that:

> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=force"You should save the changes in your file and proceed tho the next step:

Now you have to update the actual configuration to your system with this command in the terminal:

> sudo update-grub I have to mention that I am using Kubuntu 10.4 and had also the same problem with the previous version but solved it...

Note also that I had to install on my desktop the button "shut down" from the widgets. (On the desktop right click and select "add widgets" option after unlocking the widgets)

My computer never shuts down completely when I am using the button in KD Launcher but works perfectly with the button on the desktop. (shuts down completely)

---

### Post by Sirilos on 2010-05-01
Just tried also the button in the KD4 launcher task manager and works also.... 

I am sure I have solved the problem for my computer!!!

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2010-05-02
Same problem here on a clean install of 10.4 32 bit (last two times the problem showed up I used a second monitor with my laptop, don't know whether that's relevant). I don't have a etc/default/grub file, though.

---

### Post by Sirilos on 2010-05-02
Hi 

I am sorry... Seems like I forgot a slash from the code....

The right command is:

> sudo gedit /etc/default/grubDon't know if the use of 2 monitors is related.... Logically I guess not. If the computer doesn't shut down means that applications or hardware stay switched on and cannot be terminated...

Or in my case, the computer needs to know that it exists the ACPI ([B]Advanced Configuration and Power Interface).

Check this out :

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Configuration_and_Power_Interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Configuration_and_Power_Interface)


[/B]

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2010-05-03
Thanks man, works like a charm. :D
C.

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2010-05-03
Ok, I take that back: works sometimes, sometimes it doesn't (now also on another machine with 10.4 64 bit). Canonical guys, plz fix that, a 21st century OS should shut down without sudo tweaks ...

---

### Post by sfarthing on 2010-05-03
I also had this problem.  From the Terminal, enter the command 'sudo halt'.  This should shutdown the system.  In my case, after restarting, this also fixed the problem that other shutdown methods did not work.

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2010-05-04
Still doesn't work on both computers. Only way I can shutdown is with

sudo -h now

everytime ... :-(

---

### Post by sturmvogel on 2010-05-04
Same thing for me--both my desktop and my laptop.  I hope the guys fix it soon.  In the meantime, I guess I'll have to learn to use the terminal for shutdowns.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-05-04
> **Sirilos said:**
> Hi 

I am sorry... Seems like I forgot a slash from the code....

The right command is:

Don't know if the use of 2 monitors is related.... Logically I guess not. If the computer doesn't shut down means that applications or hardware stay switched on and cannot be terminated...

Or in my case, the computer needs to know that it exists the ACPI ([B]Advanced Configuration and Power Interface).

Check this out :

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Configuration_and_Power_Interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Configuration_and_Power_Interface)


[/B]Let us try 

gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub

gksudo for nautilus root.

---

### Post by swalker23 on 2010-05-04
> **sturmvogel said:**
> Same thing for me--both my desktop and my laptop.  I hope the guys fix it soon.  In the meantime, I guess I'll have to learn to use the terminal for shutdowns.

:lolflag: same here.

---

### Post by arkadiuszmakarenko on 2010-05-06
> **swalker23 said:**
> :lolflag: same here.

I have the same problem. It is second bug on my system. Unfortunately comparing to 9.10, 10.04 seems to be much less reliable. I hope this will change soon.

---

### Post by swalker23 on 2010-05-06
After the kernal update when I shutdown the splash screen shows and the dots keep moving but it still doesn't shutdown/reboot.  I press ESC to look at the consol and it looks like it halted on modem-manager

this is what it looks like
```
modem-manager: caught signal 15, shutting down
```

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2010-05-08
It may have been the modem manager, but I have one desktop computer that, AFAIK, has no modem ... I can't believe this thing isn't fixed yet, srsly, Ubuntu is great, but every now and then I do want to shut it down ... :-) :-|

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2010-05-08
You need to file a bug;
```

ubuntu-bug libplymouth2

```
and check the list of bugs when you get there to see which one matches your problem.  You may even have  a new one but I doubt it.

We need these bugs filed to get this fixed at a very high priority.  Fix plymouth or replace it is what needs done.  The devs have made that dog run a lot better than I ever thought they would but it is not good enough.

I, personally, don't think it ever will run right and will have to be replaced.  I am sure that this, if it happens, will be back ported to 10.04LTS.

---

### Post by dtower on 2010-05-09
I'm having the same problem with shutting down. My system also restarted when I tried "sudo shutdown now" in the terminal. Mine is an upgrade from 9.04. Hope this can be fixed soon!

---

### Post by Ctulhu on 2010-05-12
So, I just disabled OpenOffice's systray starter on the three computers I work with, and since then the system shut down perfectly every time. Maybe a statistical fluke, but maybe that's it ...

---

### Post by uutnubu on 2010-10-15
Disabling the OpenOffice systray Quickstart also works for me...

Thanks Ctulhu!

---

