---
title: "10.04 md5sum anomaly"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by candtalan on 2010-05-07
Using a fairly new install of 10.04 
I downloaded 10.04 desktop iso and then using md5sum in the file verified it was good.

I burned a desktop CD by right click on its entry in nautilus, and chose the entry
'Write to disc'

I rebooted from the CD and chose the Live CD menu 'check this CD for errors', and no errors were found.

I used the CD as a live CD and it worked normally (given that lucid Live CD has problems).

I burn a lot of live CDs and always choose a low speed, which always works. I know this because I check almost all of them using md5sum.

Md5sum FAIL:
However, on the burned CD, the md5sum failed with a report
Input.output error

I used the CD in another machine and got the same md5sum response.

I then used the CD in a third machine (my daily use machine) and copied the CD to a file (iso) image, the image had a good md5sum (!) and a CD burned from it was also good for md5sum!

This story was repeatable with another CD burn.

I had used the default CD image burn facility as suggested above. I am not sure what package this was. (?)

I then used Software Centre in the original machine to install CD/DVD creator, and proceeded to use that package from the Nautilus context menu to again burn the 'problem' iso image.

This time the CD produced gave a good md5sum.

I have no idea what is going on here: md5sum check fails but the CD checks itself as no errors,  image later extracted is good, and can be re burned!

---

### Post by sylvester_0 on 2010-05-07
Sounds like it could be a problem with the drives being able to read the CDs. In the good old days of CD burning (back at 2x and 4x drives) some CDs couldn't be read at all in some drives and others would have problems while reading. Are you using quality blanks? Maybe the drives that are reporting the CDs as bad are on their way out?

I can't test this right now (don't have a CD drive) but I think that you could run a md5sum directly on the dev (/dev/cdrom etc.) Also, check out unetbootin to "burn" cd images to USB sticks, bypassing optical media altogether.

---

### Post by candtalan on 2010-05-07
This looks interesting
Brasero burns funny .checksum file on CD by default
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/brasero/+bug/573867](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/brasero/+bug/573867)

Comment on the quality of the CD drives:
When I use the non brasero app (cd/dvd burner),  everything is good. Suggests something to do with (brasero)?

---

### Post by sylvester_0 on 2010-05-07
I didn't look into the bug, but it sounds like that bug is related to brasero creating a .checksum file in the root of a newly created CD image. So in other words, this doesn't apply to ISOs or other CD images.

I doubt brasero uses a different backend (cdrecord?) to do the burning than every other cd burning program. I'd chalk this up to "stuff happens" (bad drives/power blip/dust/bad media/cosmic ray/sun spot).

---

