---
title: "12.04 unity:  How do I begin a network connection via sftp"
date: 2012-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by L a r r y on 2012-05-23
I need the Places menu.  On that menu is a place where I can make a connection to another server via sftp, and open my web site's filesystem on my desktop.

Where do I get there from Unity?????

I have obtained the answer after restating my question in a second post.  I am editing the leadoff post for better clarity of the question I was asking.

---

### Post by L a r r y on 2012-05-23
Let me restate this question:  On my gnome 2 desktop, in the Places Menu, I can make a network connection.  I see the remote computer's filesystem in a Nautilus window on my desktop, and I can drag files from off the remote computer to my filesystem, or vice versa.

(This USB keyboard is driving me nuts:  Four times I lost a space keypress!)

Since I have no Places menu in Unity, what do I search for to make a remote connection?  ("remote connection" might be worth a search!)

Retitled my thread, for that matter, for I can make the remote connection using ftp or sftp.

I have already made connection via the gftp program, but I want to be able to drag and drop.

Thanks.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-24
Hi L a r r y.

That option is still available on Nautilus (the file manager):
```
File -> Connect to Server
```
Hope that helps, and tell us how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by L a r r y on 2012-05-30
> **papibe said:**
> Hi L a r r y.

That option is still available on Nautilus (the file manager):
```
File -> Connect to Server
```
Hope that helps, and tell us how it goes.
Regards.

SoTHAT'S where they stuck it!  Thank you!  It works.

So I bring up the Home Folder off the Unity launch bar and go to the top bar into the File Menu, just to restate the case.  From there I was able to add a bookmark to my remote site and it opens right up.

Solved!

---

