---
title: "11.04 move window, close window"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ilantal on 2011-04-29
I just installed 11.04 and I'm not sure what exactly I did but now I have no blue bar on the top of each application window. This bar has the "x" to close the application, as well as the ability to drag the window to reposition it.
How do I get the bar back again? (If I reboot, it comes back again but when I close an application, or some such thing, it goes away again.) Very strange, but annoying.

Thanks,
Ilan

---

### Post by Tony_Harrison on 2011-04-29
I'm having the same problem. I feel the the bigger disadvantage of this is the inability to drag windowed applications around the screen. This feature is critical to my workspace.

Generally, I don't much like Unity (the sidebar menu seems more suited to tablets and pads running more embedded architecture)

Anyway, I would also like to know where to re-enable the title bar on windows and make them draggable again. I'll report back if I figure it out.
](*,)

---

### Post by ilantal on 2011-04-29
Hurrah, someone suggested the correct answer:

[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/ubuntu-desktop-effects-fixing-the-missing-](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/ubuntu-desktop-effects-fixing-the-missing-)
titlebar/

The 2 options:
Option "AddARGBVisuals" "True"
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
were missing and adding them did the trick.

Ilan

---

### Post by Tony_Harrison on 2011-04-29
I was messing around with the Compiz settings and found another solution. (At least, it worked for me)

At the login screen,click on <your username>
select (at the bottom) "Ubuntu Classic"
Login
System->Preferences->CompizConfig Settings Manager*
Enable Windows Decorations ,Move Windows, Resize Windows and Application Switcher if you like the Alt-Tab function

That pretty much did it for me. I believe that "Ubuntu Classic" will be selected by default each subsequent time you login.

NOTE: This may be different if you use the Unity plugin (i.e. the default Ubuntu 11.04 desktop) 

*This is available from the Software Center if you don't have it

I think this post might be [SOLVED]?

---

### Post by ilantal on 2011-05-01
I think you are being a bit unfair. Try comparing Natty with Win7, not XP. I tried Win7 at a friend's home and ended up pulling my hair out. I couldn't get it to do a simple share of files between 2 computers, something which is trivial in XP. Yet the world is moving to Win7 and not staying with XP.

(I host Windows under Virtual box and I use XP because Win7 is such a memory pig and I get nothing additional from it which I don't have in XP. The truth is all I need Windows to do is compile programs and run .NET, my old Windows programs.)

In my opinion the correct choice was made with Natty, and we have to get used to the change. It DOES take getting used to but the world is changing and we have to change with it.

How do I mark this issue as solved?

Ilan

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-05-01
@ilantal: Please see my signature.

@crolidge: I'm honestly baffled how someone can stump into a thread and start ranting the hell out of it like you did, even though you purportedly don't want to have anything to do with Ubuntu/Linux. Then why did you try Natty 11.04 in the first place? Btw., if you don't want desktop effects at all, then just log in to "Ubuntu Classic (No effects)", no force-fed Compiz then.

Greetings.

---

### Post by Ludd1te on 2011-05-07
It is a bit strange that they were unchecked, but enabling windows move,etc. in compiz worked for me.

One problem with Application Switcher that I've found, though, is that programs (especially FireFox or Chromium) sometimes freeze after using Alt-Tab.

@crolidge: I understand your frustration (although not your manners).  Do please note that the MS OS you're referring to lingers from an architecture two generations old.  Hardly a testament to the superiority of MS's blunted cutting edge.

---

