---
title: ":s"
date: 2010-05-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zolsiemanym on 2010-05-27
Hi guys and gals, im having some trouble with ubuntu,, i installed it correctly and then it loaded,, GREAT, but then i was looking through all different options on the first screen, i was looking through the different features and i looked at my documents. there was nothing there :o i booted up vista and found the folders, so i was wondering if there was a way to transfer the files. can anyone help. greatly appreciated. :]

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2010-05-27
If you go to Places, you should see a drive with the name of your Windows partition. If you mount that you can view the folders exactly as normal.

---

### Post by zolsiemanym on 2010-05-27
Cheers ill try that. im not  retard btw. im just sorta new. lol

---

### Post by Sub101 on 2010-05-27
> **zolsiemanym said:**
> Cheers ill try that. im not  retard btw. im just sorta new. lol

lol. Didnt think you were! ;)

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-05-27
I just installed Ubuntu 10.04 netbook remix on a friends acer aspire one~
(dual boot with XP)

and it gave me the option to import the windows files..
So i chose to import the windows 'profile'

 I was surprised when i got into the Ubuntu partition and every file (music, pictures, documents, etc) from windows was also in Ubuntu now. :)

Maybe the infamous vista is the culprit? lol

---

### Post by zolsiemanym on 2010-05-27
lol. i didnt like vista, unfortunately it was on the netbook when i bought it. its like it doesnt want me to use another os. selfish os's :( lol

---

### Post by zolsiemanym on 2010-05-27
i tried to mount it but it said unable to mount, is there something i need to enable in windows?

---

### Post by X-Windows on 2010-05-27
I am 90% sure this is due to Windows NTFS file system. Perhaps a better way would be to create a third partition that you use to store all your documents on, this is the way I and several others handle dual booting with Windows. If you want to go this route, in the Software Center download the app "GParted" this is what is used to create and manage partitions. If you had windows installed first, you most likely filled the remaining space with linux. Whatever the case, try shrinking a partition  and create a primary FAT32 file system from the free space created. Label this "Shared" or something and *cut* all your windows documents onto this partition. From here you can create other folders and remap the Vista and Ubuntu "My Documents, Music, Downloads ect. over to the new partition. This way you have a single file that can be accessed in multiple OS's. If you ever need to reinstall a OS (and you will), all your files are already on the other partition, saving you all the work of copying things to an external HD.

---

### Post by zolsiemanym on 2010-05-27
ummm ya,, im sorta new so could you explain that in dumb dumb language plz, cheers lol

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-05-27
> **zolsiemanym said:**
> lol. i didnt like vista, unfortunately it was on the netbook when i bought it. its like it doesnt want me to use another os. selfish os's :( lol

 you know,
 it does seem like just that sometimes doesn't it? 

 knowing their shady business in the past..
would it really surprise anyone? 
ok, any critical thinkers I mean? lol

it's like they say.. "ok, let's just do something that will give anyone who thinks about using another OS, something to think about".. lol

---

### Post by X-Windows on 2010-05-27
Sure, first you need to download GParted (otherwise the rest of this wont make much sense). Go to the Ubuntu software center and search "GParted", it should be the first hit. After installing that go to System > Administration > GParted. Here you will see a graphic representation of your hard drive and its partitions. Partitions are like rooms on your hard drive, programs can't (shouldn't) be able to overflow into other partitions. In short think of partitions as separate hard drives.

 Now partitions come in two types, Primary and Logical. Without getting too involved, Primary partitions portray themselves as seperate hard drives, if you go into Places > Computer you will see all the different "hard drives" or partitions on your system along with whatever additional media you have connected (CD drives, external hard drives, thumb drives ect...). In your case you will probably see an icon called "File System" and a CD drive and perhaps another icon that is your windows partition. What we want do do is create another partition that will hold all of your storage, basicly we want 3 partitions, one for the windows OS, one for Ubuntu and the rest of you hard drive will be used to hold all your data music videos ect. Back to GParted you should see a graph across the tabels. there will probably be only two sections, one of these is your windows partition and the other is Ubuntu. I reccomend backing up any vital information on your hard drive before the next step. Things dont usialy go wrong, but just in case...

Ok now you need to determine which partition you want to shrink. Inside the bar chart on top you should see a filled in area on each partition, this is how much of the partion is used currently. The white portion is empty "unused" space and the yellow is used. If you installed Ubuntu after windows your Ubuntu partion should be the second one, probably called something like /dev/sda2 or /dev/sda3 depending on how windows installed itself. Note that the linux partition will almost always have a file system of either "ext3" or "ext4", while windows always uses "ntfs". 

Now if the ubuntu partition has plenty of unused space in it we will go ahead and resize it. You will have to boot off a CD for the next part as we cant resize mounted partitions (mounting a partition basicly means loading it, unlike windows, linux does not mount every partion it sees). You will probably not be able to use wireless at all when you are running on the CD so plan accordingly. Ok so the first window you see should either let you try Ubuntu or Install it, we want to try Ubuntu so go ahead and click that. Once Ubuntu loads go to System > Partition Manager (or something of that name). This should bring you back to the GParted window you saw before. So once you determined the Ubuntu partition right click it and select Resize/Move. Depending on your hard drive space drag the right hand arrow untill New Size reads what you want (10Gb = 10,000 Mb). Assuming that this is the last partition you should now have a large amount of gray "unallocated space", this will be your new partition. I cant recall at the moment whether I created the next partition when I was on the disc or on a regular boot so check if there is an option in the File Format (or File System) dropdown menu for FAT32, if this is grayed out go ahead and exit the CD session then reboot into normal Ubuntu, and start GParted. You should still see the large gray "unallocated space" at the end of the chart, right click and select new. Here set it as a *_Primary_* partition with file type *_FAT32_* and give it a unique label (mine is called "Shared"), then check to make sure it fills up the rest of your hard drive. Once you click OK it will check if you have less than 4 primary partitions, I'll assume you do. It should update the graph and show the gray area as a large green partition that is something like /dev/sda3 "Shared". Click the green checkmark at the top and presto! new partition. 

Now go ahead and move all your shared documents, music, downloads ect... over to this new partition. To update your windows bookmarks go to C:/Users/<username> and right click on whatever you want to link to the shared partition then go to Location > Move > browse to your new partition (probably called D: or E:) and create new folders (Documents, Music, Videos ect...). To do the same in linux open up Computer and go to Bookmarks > Edit Bookmarks. In the location you will need to type something like this: /media/Shared/Documents, where "Shared" is the label you gave it in GParted. 

I recommend downloading PySDM through the Software Center to auto mount the shared partition on startup, once downloaded go to System > Administration > Storage Device Manager. On partition list select the last partion from the expanded  "sda" and click OK on the window that pops up. Here set the name to whatever you labeled it in GParted, then click Assistant. To give yourself root privlages to this partiton and automount it select the first, second fourth and seventh boxes. On "Owner user of the file system type your uid name, usuialy your first name all lowercase). Once you click OK, mount/unmount the device in the Storage Device Manager to make sure everything works. If it doesnt throw an error you are done! All your windows and Ubuntu bookmarks reference the third partition and now you can reinstall an OS without erasing all your data.

If you have any questions let me know.

---

### Post by zolsiemanym on 2010-05-28
thats really good info mate. cheers. i understood it :DDD but i got stuck :( when you said ext4 and ext3 its not there, in order it goes "unallocated" ntfs which is 10gig and then ntfs which is 222.8 gig. alot uf unused space btw. the top one (unallocated) is only 10mb. i cant see an ubuntu one. :( i have a netbook so i dont have any CD rom drives :(

---

### Post by lsk3993 on 2010-05-28
Wait a minute... wouldn't it be easier to just use the 'NTFS Configuration Tool' from the Ubuntu Software Centre? Go to Applications>Ubuntu Software Centre and then search 'NTFS'- it's the first one there

[IMG]http://imgur.com/OsyTU.png[/IMG]
Although yes, I agree that a third partition is the best way of running a dual boot system. But unless I misunderstood you want to get rid of Vista right?

---

### Post by zolsiemanym on 2010-05-29
> **lsk3993 said:**
> Wait a minute... wouldn't it be easier to just use the 'NTFS Configuration Tool' from the Ubuntu Software Centre? Go to Applications>Ubuntu Software Centre and then search 'NTFS'- it's the first one there

[IMG]http://imgur.com/OsyTU.png[/IMG]
Although yes, I agree that a third partition is the best way of running a dual boot system. But unless I misunderstood you want to get rid of Vista right?

yes i do want to get rid of vista. its annoying and i hate it. lol. once i download this what do i do next? btw im trying to de-windows my laptop. :D

---

### Post by lsk3993 on 2010-05-29
> **zolsiemanym said:**
> yes i do want to get rid of vista. its annoying and i hate it. lol. once i download this what do i do next? btw im trying to de-windows my laptop. :D
With this program you should now be able to mount your Windows partition from the 'places' menu at the top.
From there you can copy all your documents from Windows onto the Ubuntu partition and after that I think you should be able to format Windows and allow Ubuntu to use the whole drive.

First of all just check whether you can now mount your Windows drive and let us know...

---

