---
title: "9.04, ctrl+alt+backspace."
date: 2009-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by The Squig on 2009-04-25
Sorry if this has already been addressed. 

In earlier versions of ubuntu one has always been able to restart the xerver(?) session by pressing ctrl+alt+backspace.

in 9.04 this doesnt seem to work anymore. Is there a way to enable this feature?

ty.

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-04-25
Change dontzap to false in the serverflags section of /etc/X11/xorg.conf```
Section "ServerFlags"
        Option          "DontZap"               "false"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by compgeek83 on 2009-04-25
therse a fix, you can make an edit to your xorg.conf file to add it back, it has been disabled because of people who cant control their fingers basically lol.

---

### Post by The Squig on 2009-04-25
ty both :)

---

### Post by rusyear04 on 2009-04-27
having a problem with the "reset"-option in xorg.conf:

i'm trying to use an external monitor with my notebook -which does work sometimes.
if it doesn't work ubuntu proposes to use "low relsolution mode" which i do. and in this low-res mode i cannot take advantage of the "ctrl-aflt-backspace" function even though i'm having the 

```
Section "ServerFlags"
        Option          "DontZap"               "false"
EndSection
```

in my xorg.conf.

can you help me? thanx!

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-04-27
You can also zap the desktop with Alt-SysRq-k (which kills all programs running on current virtual terminal. The result is the same you would get with Ctrl-Alt-Backspace, killing the desktop and reloading GDM.

---

### Post by Alterios on 2009-05-06
you have to install the dontzap utility in the repositories to make it work. Once you install that and add the appropriate lines to xorg.conf it will work.

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-05-06
try "sudo apt-get install dontzap"

then type "dontzap -d"

reboot and then crlt-alt-backspace will work

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-05-06
You do not need to reboot, just re-start X (log out and back in).

---

