---
title: "8.04 to 8.10 Problems"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SanctusMessor on 2008-11-04
Alright, I have a problem with installing 8.10 from the disk; I know I'm not the only one. This is what I get repeated:

Buffer I/O error on device sr0 sector 1431616
end request: I/O error, dev sr0, logical block 357904

So I wasn't too bothered by this, I just installed 8.04 [which works fine as do all other boot discs] and got the updates and upgrade the OS version over the net right? So I just let it go, wasn't the fastest of things but its ok, I had to go to work so I would just return and finish up. Well after all the stuff is down its time to install, so I let it, it gets about 40% done before it tells me it cant continue. So I rebooted to give it a chance to complete the updates that need it and now the issue is the Xserver. My first instinct is to just reinstall the damn thing but I don't know how, honestly I haven't discovered the differences between Ubuntu and Kubuntu to much other than KDE vs Gnome and Adept vs Synaptic. Anyway, below is the error I'm getting, how would I just reinstall it? Should I? I had no problems jumping a Ubuntu 8.04 to a 8.10 but I have always liked the KDE environment a little better.

> Fatal server error:
Could not create Lock file in /tmp/.tX0-lock

giving up..
xinit: No such file or directory (errno 2): Unable to connect to Xserver
xinit: No such process (errno 3): Server error
xauth: Error in locking authority file /home/sanctus/.Xauthority

Also mentions some "read only" stuff before this error. Thanks for the help!

EDIT: When I try to reconfigure it tells me it is broken or not completely installed

---

