---
title: "Increasing Resolution to 1280 * 800?"
date: 2005-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by greencard on 2005-11-09
hello,

I am using a dell 700m with Intel Extreme Graphics card which can support resolution of 1280 * 800. But, I can see only 1024 *768 when I check the Screen Resolution(System>Preferences>Screen Resolution). Is there any way that I can increase my screen resolutiont to 1280*800? Could anyone let me know what changes that I have to make in this xorg.conf file? My xorg.conf file is as follows:

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Modeline	"1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82852/855GM Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x800"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


Could anyone let me know what changes that I have to make in this xorg.conf file?

---

### Post by Lambert on 2005-11-09
From a terminal run

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` 

Enter your resolution and hit ctrl+alt+backspace to restart xserver.

If you have more questions do a search for dpkg-reconfigure and you'll find many posts on this which will probalby have an answer for you.

---

### Post by greencard on 2005-11-11
The command:
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-org
is giving the following error. 

Package `xserver-org' is not installed and no info is available.
Use dpkg --info (= dpkg-deb --info) to examine archive files,
and dpkg --contents (= dpkg-deb --contents) to list their contents.
/usr/sbin/dpkg-reconfigure: xserver-org is not installed

Can anyone let me know how do I install xserver-org. I tried installing synaptic package manager. There is no such package.

And thanks to the person for replying me

---

### Post by RAOF on 2005-11-11
That was a typo.  What he really meant was xserver-**x**org

So it would be:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

I would suggest reading the [how do I change resolutions in Xorg? howto]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973&highlight=dpkg-reconfigure+xserver-xorg").

---

### Post by kingsidy on 2005-11-11
check this thread
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27029]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27029")

---

### Post by olieviya on 2006-11-09
I have tried the above but I ruined my ubuntu installation. I was forced to install it all over again not that it was hard or took time like some other os installations ;)

What I really want is to be able to change to 1280 * 800 because my screen looks very crappy with 1024*768 exp since it's widescreen and everything looks squashed/stretched. I have no clue how to make ubuntu work with the 1280*800 resolution. I HAVE tried the above: blank black screen laptop non-responsive. :(

Please help!

---

