---
title: "16.04.2 - applications menu doesn't have icons"
date: 2017-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ardouronerous on 2017-04-20
[ATTACH=CONFIG]274671[/ATTACH]

Xubuntu 16.04.2
Applications Menu doesn't show icons.

How to fix?

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2017-04-20
Right-click on Menu Icon on Panel.
Select Properties.
Under Appearance, is "Show Icons in Menu" checked?

---

### Post by ardouronerous on 2017-04-21
> **Dennis N said:**
> Right-click on Menu Icon on Panel.
Select Properties.
Under Appearance, is "Show Icons in Menu" checked?

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274686[/ATTACH]

Yes it is checked, as you can see on the screenshot.

---

### Post by ardouronerous on 2017-04-22
Bump

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-04-23
Theme related ?

Does the default theme also not show icons ?

---

### Post by ardouronerous on 2017-04-23
I figured out the problem, by going to Settings->Appearance->Settings, check 'Show images in menus'
[ATTACH=CONFIG]274724[/ATTACH]
Now the icons are showing.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2017-04-23
> **ardouronerous said:**
> I figured out the problem, by going to Settings->Appearance->Settings, check 'Show images in menus'. 
Now the icons are showing.

Persistence pays off. I had thought that particular option applied to the Desktop right-click menu only, since it is presented in a dialog for "Customize the appearance of your Desktop". But, "Desktop" here really means desktop environment, so it is more a global setting, affecting most menus (an exception is the Whisker Menu).  

The "Properties" in the Applications menu affects only that one menu (not the Desktop right-click menu).

---

