---
title: "10.10 boot problem on Acer Aspire 1810TZ"
date: 2011-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Omorashi on 2011-01-14
Hey UF,

I wanted to install a linux based OS on my laptop, since i realized it was time getting away from MS. I started with plain Ubuntu, which had some problem with my touchpad and I later found out wanted KDE, so i switched to Opensuse. This didnt work at all and i went to Kubuntu, which i really am impressed by so far.

My Ubuntu and Kubuntu installation had/have a boot problem. I want to run a dual boot with Windows 7, and I have partitioned my harddisk in the so i have 4 partitions (W7,Files,Kubuntu,Swap). I have done the installation from a bootable USB, and it has worked fine. The first boot also works fine, but is slow, but I think it is due to it being the initial boot.

I now update my system, with all the updates that the manager reminds me of and I reboot. The next reboot takes around 5 minutes, and again i think it can be due to instalation of files or something. But the system starts. I reboot the system because i made a change in language for the desktop, but now it wont boot.

After grub (1.9XXX) it hangs with the blinking underscore for ~5 min and sometimes it wants to boot and other times it says:

```

init: Error while reading from descriptor: Bad file descriptor
init: hwclock main process (349) killed by SEGV signal
init: plymouth main process (348) killed by SEGV signal
(takes a little time and continues)
init: mountall main process (348) killed by SEGV signal
init: mountall post-stop process (352) killed by SEGV signal
init: plymouth-stop pre-start process (354) killed by SEGV signal
init: Error while reading from descriptor: Bad file descriptor
init: mountall-shell main process (356) killed by SEGV signal
init: mountall-shell post-stop process (357) killed by SEGV signal

```

I have read some problems with SATA mode set to AHCI, but I really want it that way, due to the fact that W7 wont boot if I change it.

I have installed Kubuntu with wubi since the live cd i first tried was corrupted and the alternate CD I destroyed my bootloader so i had to recover W7. I have the kernels 2.6.35-24/22 available in grub, but they both give the same error as shown in the code above

I hope someone can help me with this problem, and if I am missing some information please comment and I will get it as fast as possible.

Thank you in advance
/Omorashi

---

