---
title: "10.10: System fails to boot."
date: 2011-03-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2011-03-14
This morning my system has a problem which is beyond my ability to understand:

Firstly, the system does not boot automatically, after a fixed delay, from the grub menu. I have to press 'enter' against a chosen boot option.

Secondly boot then fails. A lot of messages flash past the screen (which appear to be a trace) and end showing the following (partial example):
```

Killed
mount: mounting /dev on /root/dev failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /sys on /root/sys failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /proc on /root/proc failed: No such file or directory
Target filesystem doesn't have requested /sbin/init.
No init found. Try passing init= bootarg.


....... built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help'........

(initramfs)

```

at this stage I can move around the directory structure using 'cd', but no other commands seem to work.

I tried the recovery boot option - same result.

Is this a symptom that my boot drive has failed? No, that can't be true, or I would not be able to see the grub menu, would I?

I can't find a similar situation after a Google search; what recovery procedure I should use?


Correction: I must have had brain fade: I see there is quite a long thread on this very topic on the forum. I'm going to examine that first before I ask for more help.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2011-03-14
Having read the forum thread on this topic and looked at my system using the installation CD, I find that /etc/fstab has lost most of its entries - which would explain why the system won't boot and why fsck cannot run.

I think this thread should be closed and I'll start another one on the fstab issue.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2011-03-14
Having followed the thread on 'No init found. Try passing init= bootarg' I haven't found a solution to the problem of boot failue in my system.

I have rebuilt fstab, which was invalid, using UUIDs which I have validated with the "readlink /dev/disk/by-uuid" command and Gparted Live.

I have checked the boot parameters which are displayed in the grub menu at boot time and they reflect the options I added to /etc/defaults/grub - so I know the system can access the /etc directory at boot.

But the system does not seem to mount either / or /home and displays the message given in my first post.

Can I get some advice on possible causes to this problem?

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2011-03-14
Have you in any way changed your hardware?  It almost seems that a disk has been added, removed or gone bad.

One option that I can think of would be to boot on a LiveCD and then mount your existing file system as the root file system and updating your initial ram disk:

(this assumes your internal disk is sda1, adjust if not, or post the output of "sudo fdisk -l" if you want help with what disk/partition should be used):

Mount your internal disk once booted on the LiveCD:
```
sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/disk
sudo mount -o bind /sys /mnt/disk/sys
sudo mount -o bind /proc /mnt/disk/proc
sudo mount -o bind /dev /mnt/disk/dev

```
Once monted, change the root of your running session to your hard disk:
```
sudo chroot /mnt/disk:
```

Once running with your disk as the root of your live session, rebuild the initial ram disk and update grub:
```
sudo update-grub
sudo update-initramfs -u
```

If that fails, then we need to look at your grub configuration.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2011-03-15
> **blueridgedog said:**
> Have you in any way changed your hardware?  It almost seems that a disk has been added, removed or gone bad.



Yes, you are correct. Thanks for all this technical support. I don't really deserve it because I have been chasing ghosts, as a result of my own lack of knowledge about Linux internals. 

I am now back with a live system having concluded that my grub2 definitions were OK and that all of my files on my /home system were present, so that the problem must have been with my '/' partition. Booting from my install CD  and using the disk management app. I found that the filesystem on '/' 'was NOT clean'. 

After a bit of faffing around - being sidetracked by the inability of Gparted on the Live CD to fix the filesystem (of course it couldn't - the file system was in use by the Live CD....) - I booted from a Gparted CD and let it correct the file system. After that, Ubuntu booted as normal.

So problem solved. Actually, symptoms solved; the real problem is why did the file-system on '/' get corrupted? 

Probably a hardware 'change' -  there is a design flaw in the combination of my Athlon 64 X2 processor and the dual channel memory on my Asus A8V mobo which causes a timing instability. I have fixed that by adding the options 'hpet=force' and 'clocksource=hpet' to my grub menu. It may have been that my updates co-incided with a write-error to '/'.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2011-03-15
I saw on your other post that you solved the problem.  What type of file system are you running?  Ext3 or Ext4?  How old is the disk?  Have you had a power outage?  Is the disk healthy?  You can check disk health with the disk utility tool.

---

### Post by newgen23 on 2011-03-15
You don't lack knowledge. In the last 2 days, two of my linux laptops running Ubuntu 10.10 have killed their init mysteriously. I just rebooted them and the boot-up was broken. 
  (To anyone who wants to make a funny remark: I am using Linux for 15 years now an certified lpi 1 + 2 . So NO, i have NOT changed anything. )
 I must say that this issue worries my. I am not sure, why Maverik kills it's boot-up without reason. I will have to repair the systems before further research. 

[LIST]
[*]Update: Using live-cd, i mounted the filesystem and used fsck. It seems that the filesystem was corrupted. After all problems were fixed, the system boots now normal again. /var/log/messages and /var/log/syslog do not give any clue, why the filesystem was corrupted. repairing the next laptop now.
[/LIST]

---

