---
title: "unstable movie player"
date: 2011-07-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bowserdog on 2011-07-15
Unstable movie stars I've heard plenty about.  But an unstable movie player itself?  I am running a brand-new copy of Ubuntu 11.04 in an amd-64 desktop system.  It works fine. - EXCEPT for the movie player, and another problem I'll discuss separately.  Movie player sound functionality is usually controlled through the main toolbar, which has six sections: Movie, Edit, View, Go, Sound and Help.  All these appear where they should, but they just don't work correctly when movie player is attempting to access them.  Use of movie player jacks up the vectors controlling system functionality.  Example #1:  The sound panel, which by default is also activated by System-> Preferences &#8594;> Sound, allows adjustment of output volume level from both below and above the normal default of 100%.  However, this works only when movie player is not in use.  If I want to adjust the volume up or down from the usual 100% default, I mist 1) turn movie-player off, 2) use System -> Preferences -> Sound to adjust the level, 3) -> click Close to retain the new level, and 4) use Play (with movie player) to view the video at the new volume level.  If I follow that, I can watch the video with a different sound setting.  HOWEVER; I do NOT dare adjust sound levels while movie player is running.  That specifically entails trying System -> Preferences -> Sound to adjust the sound while movie player is active. The instant I click on System I go to a funny re-qualification screen to allow me to relog into the system - as myself.  If I do relog in, I can then go WITH MOVIE PLAYER OFF to System -> Preferences -> Sound and adjust the level.  I'm back to go again.  I cannot use System -> Preferences -> Sound while the movie-player is active.  I'm clear back to GO again.  I surmise there's been a reset in the OS itself.  Example #2: I cannot use any of the main taskbar tabs while the movie player is in use:  All force a failure vector of some sort, but the results haven't been all too repeatable.  Unfortunately, so too are the triggering actions.  Something is wrong in the movie player here.  Re-installing Movie Player via the Synaptic Package Manager did not cure the errors.  There seems to be something much deeper at work here.  Does this suggest anything to anybody?  Should I go back to square zero and reformat the drive and do a fresh install of v 11.04?  Any help would be quite welcome.

---

