---
title: "10.10 and gnome-panel and compiz"
date: 2011-03-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Werm on 2011-03-08
So without looking at the changes from 10.04 netbook edition to 10.10 I decided to upgrade. (use it on my desktop, didn't think to look at the differences... my mistake)

I was then given this awful windows manager called mutter and an awful desktop environment called unity. Needless to say I wanted gnome panel and compiz back. 

Anyways it's now broken, doesn't work. I have gnome/openbox (that I'm using now) with gnome-panel and compiz. 

My question is how do I go about changing the login environment for both "ubuntu desktop" and "netbook" to these? Right now it's loaded up to just the wallpaper, no panel! Not sure what files need to be modified in X for this. Any help?

---

### Post by GunboatDebater on 2011-03-08
Hey,

I'm not entirely sure how Unity managed to mess up your box that badly, but I'm not a big fan of the new interface either.  That aside, if you're just booting up to wallpaper and icons, then that means GNOME is throwing a fit somewhere along the line.

And that unfortunately means you probably won't be able to get any of the keyboard shortcuts working, like ALT+F2.  If you can boot up and get to a terminal of any kind, do so (not the ttys, just something you can fire up gconf-editor from).  From gconf-editor, you can go to Apps / Desktop / Gnome / required_components and change the panel to gnome-panel and the session/etc. to what you had it as before.

If they doesn't work, the best I can advise is to drop into one of the ttys (CTRL+ALT+1), login, and manually cd your way up from .gconf into the key you want.  Best of luck, hope this helps!

---

