---
title: "14.04 - Desktop not loading on Unity or Gnome"
date: 2015-03-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xuan3 on 2015-03-16
Hi all,

Having a really persistent problem that is compounded by my lack of CS knowledge. I've recently run an upgrade on my Ubuntu 14.04 and everything installed normally (it was a standard software update). However, now when I try to log into my main user account, I'm getting just the desktop background and a cursor. Notably, this means the icons bar on the left, the status bar up top and all icons on the desktop are missing.

I've tried a lot of the fixes on these websites: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/476930/ubuntu-desktop-does-not-load](http://askubuntu.com/questions/476930/ubuntu-desktop-does-not-load) which seems to describe my exact problem.
However, the main fix that worked for this person was the installation of the gnome desktop, and then running:

sudo apt-get install unity-tweak-tool
unity-tweak-tool --reset-unity

As well, a common fix suggested (here: [http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-reset-compiz-and-unity-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-reset-compiz-and-unity-in-ubuntu.html), and here: [http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2014/04/reset-unity-and-compiz-settings-in-ubuntu-14-04/](http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2014/04/reset-unity-and-compiz-settings-in-ubuntu-14-04/)) is: 

dconf reset -f /org/compiz/
setsid unity

I've tried both of these myself and when I attempt to log into the gnome desktop (metacity or compiz) I'm still getting the same issue where I can only see the desktop background and cursor. This means I can't open a terminal in gnome and attempt to reset unity.

Instead, when I use these commands (off a terminal I get from the login screen using CTRL + ATL + F1), I keep getting:

error: Cannot autolaunch D-Bus without X11 $DISPLAY

Sorry if this is a simple problem but I'm having a very tough time getting around this. I really need access to my Ubuntu account because I have some fairly important simulations and packages installed for that user. Please help if you can! I have no idea what I'm doing.

---

### Post by xuan3 on 2015-03-16
If anyone knows how to fix the "error: Cannot autolaunch D-Bus without X11", I'd be extremely grateful. I'Ve googled this as well but I can't really understand the fixes. If this will work, it seems like a unity reset will do the trick. But I just can't get the "dconf reset" to work

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2015-03-16
Installing an alternative desktop such as gnome flashback will not solve this kind of problem. It may allow us to load to a working desktop where we can access a terminal or some GUI utilities to try to fix it.

I have Gnome flashback installed so that if the Compiz window manager/compositor breaks I can load into a desktop using another compositor called Metacity and from there try to fix the problem.

If we can load to a login screen then we have evidence that the Xserver is running. If after logging in we get the desktop wallpaper without the Unity launcher or the app-indicators there is something we can try.

Right click the wallpaper. From the menu select Change Desktop Background. That will open System Settings at the Appearance utility and from there we can get to the System Settings main window and click on Software and Updates and then open the Additional Drivers tab and change to another video driver. It might be better to try the open source video driver. We will need to re-start.

Right click the wallpaper and select Open Terminal. This command will restart

```
sudo shutdown -r now
```

this command will shut down or halt

```
sudo shutdown -h now
```

When we use Ctrl+Alt+F1 or any F number from F1 to F6 we get to a Linux console or tty. There we can run commands. To get back to the desktop to see if they worked we press Ctrl+Alt+F7.

Linux loads on tty1 (Ctrl+Alt+F1) but Ubuntu runs on tty7 (Ctrl+alt+F7).

Another way to get to a working desktop if the problem is caused by proprietary video drivers is to select Recovery mode at the Grub boot menu. We find it in the Advanced Options for Ubuntu Sub-menu.

At the recovery menu select Resume and that should load to a desktop using an open source video driver called llvmpipe that Ubuntu uses as a fall back video driver. Once at the desktop we can get to the Additional Drivers utility.

Regards.

---

### Post by xuan3 on 2015-03-16
Thank you for the clear reply! Unfortunately, I tried both (right clicking to Change Desktop Background) and booting in Recovery Mode (using the resume boot) and neither of them was able to get me a window to access any Additional Drivers. I'm still unfortunately just getting a blank desktop with no side bar icons, desktop icons or upper status bar.

---

