---
title: "9.04"
date: 2009-03-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by accooper on 2009-03-22
When Ubuntu comes out with it's next version how will that work.  Will you have to delete the old version or just install like an upgrade?

What would be better.

:guitar:

TIA
Andrew

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-03-22
You can either do a fresh reinstall of the whole OS, or upgrade through the package manager; the choice is yours. If you decide to upgrade, you may want to wait until a week or two after the initial release, to give the devs a chance to squash any extraneous bugs.

---

### Post by accooper on 2009-03-22
Thanks for the info.  I probably will just upgrade since I finally got the machine to work like I want it to except for the auto mounting of my hard drives but I'm working on that. Do you think Ubuntu will have that worked out in the next version?

:guitar:

Andrew

---

### Post by emarkay on 2009-03-22
They are real good in allowing upgrades from previous version to next version; it's seamless and painless.

You can also participate in the beta program (they are still Aplha on "Jaunty") and then the update official release is just applied on "release day"

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyJackalope](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/JauntyJackalope)
FYI:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicKoala](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/KarmicKoala)

---

### Post by accooper on 2009-03-22
Thanks For All The Info.  I have come to really like Ubuntu.  Being a MSCE it really reminds me of the las good windows operating system which was Windows 2000.  Since then it has been nothing but trouble.

I am looking forward to really working Ubuntu and see what its got.

:guitar:

Andrew

---

