---
title: "11.10 frequently crashing"
date: 2011-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ted_001 on 2011-10-21
Dear All,
after upgrading from 11.04 to 11.10 I am having a lot of problems.
Often 11.10 crashes, and I am unable to elicit any response from the system, and I have to turn off my computers by holding down the ON/OFF button.
Typically this happens when I am doing something with an external USB hard drive - such as 'safely removing' the drive.  If there is a window open to view a directory of the drive, or there is a pane in Nautilus viewing the drive in any way, the system crashes.  Mouse and keyboard are unresponsive, and the LEDs for Caps and Scroll flash on and off.  I can replicate this on my laptop, so I don't think that this is a hardware problem.
Also problems arise with data CDs in the PATA CD drive.  If the CD is ejected by pressing the button on the drive Nautilus doesn't update, and if another data CD is put into the drive the contents displayed in Nautilus are those of the previous CD.  The only way to update the contents is to eject the CD using the icon in the Dashboard and then re-inserting the CD.
Has any one had similar problems?
Best wishes to all,
Ted
Also I have had to delete and re-configure my HP LaserJet 1200 printer.

---

### Post by jyothishsv on 2011-10-22
same problem for me too.. ubuntu creashes when i give 'Safely remove' for my portable hard drive. If i use unmount option it's fine.

---

### Post by ted_001 on 2011-10-22
Dear jyothishsy,
many thanks for your reply.  I have taken your advice, and the crashes associated with my USB drives have stopped.  Other issues have cropped up, and I really regret updating to 11.10.  I'm in the process of backing up all the work in my home directory, and then I think that I'll put in a fresh install, whether that will be an earlier version of Ubuntu or not, I haven't decided yet.
Best wishes,
Ted


> **jyothishsv said:**
> same problem for me too.. ubuntu creashes when i give 'Safely remove' for my portable hard drive. If i use unmount option it's fine.

---

### Post by jyothishsv on 2011-10-23
hoping for this to be fixed soon.. this is the first time i've seen a linux crashing so predictably.. :shock:

---

### Post by chipstix on 2011-10-25
Unfortunately I get this problem too (flashing caps lock on my laptop and all) when ejecting my external hard drives...I have tried a re-install and still get it...if anyone has any ideas I would definately be grateful! Very annoying.....

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-10-25
> **chipstix said:**
> Unfortunately I get this problem too (flashing caps lock on my laptop and all) when ejecting my external hard drives...I have tried a re-install and still get it...if anyone has any ideas I would definately be grateful! Very annoying.....

What kind of partitions do you have on your External drives?  Are they NTFS?

---

### Post by aaazman on 2011-10-25
I think 11.10 has a problem with USB! I have installed and re-install 11.10 a dozen times. On all my completed installation (with all upgrades done,) within 4-6 boot ups, I will get stuck at boot up time and it indicates that Background Upgrade is being attempted and it needs to sleep for 5s. When I toggle between Ctrl-F1 and Ctrl-F7, I am getting invalid inodes messages. Right after USB device message. I will end up having to re-install the OS again. I was using 11.04 without too much trouble. 

By the way, I am using a 4GB Flash Drive. I removed all Libre Office products, Games, Internet (except Firefox and +) and Ubuntu One. Same old story!

---

### Post by chipstix on 2011-10-27
@oldtimer7777
Yep NTFS partitions.....does that mean you you have an idea? (you can't hear the childlike excitement in a post but it's there!)
It is a hp/compaq laptop running a dual boot with xp if that helps. Oh and it does it with any ext hard drive as far as I've tried. This is one of two 'inconsistentcies' otherwise system function is good, mem check fine etc. 
Thanks

---

### Post by calota_daniel on 2011-10-27
hy all i have the same problem , when i insert a DVD mouvie , when i open it with mouvie player works fine and then when i close the player sistem freeze ,i can do anyting just a manual restart , i'ts an update or something to fix that or just amount/mount the drive? 
 and i have another freeze with Amarok player when i try to load a song from an external hdd , the sistem just freeze and i need to do a manual restart ... exist a comand like "ctrl alt del " to close the proces? thank you guys for all the answers.

---

### Post by wharlock on 2011-10-30
I've got the same issue with a Toshiba external drive with NTFS partition...

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2011-10-30
Hello All

I'm not having these issues on an EeePC 1000 (lspci below). Western Digital ntfs format external usb hard drive seems happy as do most of the storage sticks I have. Running off a Verbatim USB stick with persistent storage until I have a few dozen hours without a kernel panic (some EeePC owners are seeing kernel panics, and I saw them in beta).

Suggestion: Just load terminal and post your lspci output so we can see if there is any commonality in the chips used &c.

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ lspci 
[ snip ]
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 2 (rev 02)
00:1c.2 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 3 (rev 02)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 4 (rev 02)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 02)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e2)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 02)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family SMBus Controller (rev 02)
```

---

### Post by djbacon on 2011-11-25
I'm also having frequent crashes with Ubuntu 11.10. I installed fresh 11.10 then installed Gnome3 and used Gnome fallback for a while. Its was nicely fast but so unusable so i tried to give another shot to Unity. Well finally when i got unity launcher not to auto-hide and everything started to be OK, Ubuntu started crashing. Suddenly showing black screen, some text and then showed log in screen. And sometimes it does that more than 5 times a day. That's getting really annoying. Is there any way of fixing this. Maybe gnome3 messed something up. Kinda don't want to re-install everything when i don't know if it even gonna fix anything.

---

