---
title: "Wubi 7.04 users upgrading to 7.10 or left with a broken system after upgrade, readme"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tuxcantfly on 2007-10-18
I've received a heap of emails about Wubi 7.04 to 7.10 upgrade horror stories, so I'm posting this so fewer people accidentally break their installs while upgrading.

**Help! I've tried running the upgrade manager from Wubi and Ubuntu doesn't boot anymore! What do I do?**

The easiest method would probably be to recover your data and reinstall. To recover your data, see [the Wubi recovery from livecd guide](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide#head-d08dd29d8d72682732b0bdb835cef9e81cd675b7) or use [Explore2fs](http://www.chrysocome.net/explore2fs) from Windows, then once you're done recovering your data, install Ubuntu 7.10, using either the official Ubuntu CD, or if you don't want to use a CD, use [UNetbootin](http://lubi.sourceforge.net/unetbootin.html) or the (still alpha) Wubi 7.10.

**How do I upgrade my Wubi install to Ubuntu 7.10? - What to NOT do.**

Upgrading directly using Ubuntu's upgrade-manager tool as described [here](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading) will likely make your Wubi install unbootable or lead to various other irregularities and/or system instability, since that approach was designed for standard dedicated-partition Ubuntu installs, not Wubi's loopmounted installs. Do **NOT** use that approach to upgrade; use one of the methods below.

**Upgrade approach 1 (recommended): Upgrade to a standard dedicated-partition Ubuntu install using LVPM first, then upgrade to Ubuntu 7.10 the normal way.**

If you want to upgrade your existing Wubi 7.04 install to Ubuntu 7.10, first transfer the install to a dedicated partition using [LVPM](http://lubi.sourceforge.net/lvpm.html) ([thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=438591)) then afterwards, once you've rebooted into your new, standard Ubuntu install generated by LVPM, then you can use the upgrade-manager to upgrade to Ubuntu 7.10 and all should go well. This also has the added benefit of upgrading your Wubi install to a standard dedicated-partition install like that installed by the official Ubuntu in the process, so it'll likely be much less problematic in the long run. However, if for some reason, you absolutely must stay with a loopmounted-partition install, you may attempt the (highly experimental) instructions below.

**Upgrade approach 2: Direct upgrade from loopmounted Wubi 7.04 to 7.10 install, note that these instructions are HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL**

It's also (theoretically) possible to upgrade by running the upgrade-manager from Wubi, but **before** rebooting, you have to make some changes, notably:

1. Uninstall the lupin-target package (the 7.04 version of the loop-install  files):

```
sudo dpkg --purge lupin-target
```

2. Install lupin-support from the Ubuntu 7.10 repositories:

```
sudo apt-get install lupin-support
```

3. Re-generate the initrd file to use the new looopmounting system:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure initramfs-tools
```

Then edit your /boot/grub/menu.lst to use the new syntax (more details coming soon), reboot, and it may work (no guarantees). Note that I've done rather little testing on this approach, so it's highly recommended that you use approach 1 instead. I may prepare a script eventually to get the process automated, once I get it to consistently work properly, but I still recommend you use approach 1.

---

### Post by ago on 2007-10-19
There are a few extra steps unfortunately. Here is a list on top of my head:

Some standard Ubuntu files in 7.10 need to be patched (those are the bugfixes that could not make the beta). See wubid/dist/install/override_files/target_override/

Also there is a one-off script: wubid/dist/install/override_files/iso_override/lib/lupin/lupin.d/success_command.sh (note that now runs off the livecd, hence you need to adjust for the different folder structure)

fstab has to be rewritten, see the fstab you get in a wubi-7.10 installation

wubildr and wubildr.mbr have to be replaced (relative paths are required) but those point to /ubuntu not to /wubi. So either the folders are renamed on the windows side (which may well break the uninstaller) or wubildr is regenerated using a different embedded menu.lst just for this script.

Last but not least the paths have changed (but you can fix that in fstab). 

/disks/root.disk
/disks/swap.disk
/disks/boot/  (which is now bindmounted to /boot via fstab)

On the linux side the host device is mapped to /host as opposed to /media/host

I might have forgotten something. But as you see upgrading manually is not for the faint of heart. Tux, up to you whether you want to write an upgrade script, I will have very little time for that. Note that things may change, particularly target_override, since I still have to discuss with Colin what to do with the patches. Hopefully they will be merged upstream so that we will provide new versions of the equivalent packages instead. I do not think I can simply stick them into lupin-support (unless we do the hack of overwriting scripts dynamically, which should be avoided). Target_override itself is not complete at this point and some of the patches have to be improved.

EDIT: 

I will add all overrides to lupin-support. But success_command, wubildr and fstab have to be taken care of separately.

---

### Post by ago on 2007-10-19
Please note that Wubi is intended to be a medium term solution to make up your mind about Ubuntu. If you tried Ubuntu and you liked it, I strongly encourage you to consider using Ubuntu on a dedicated partition via LVPM (move wubi to a dedicated partition, then upgrade as usual), Unetbootin (works if you have not CD player) or the LiveCD.

---

### Post by ago on 2007-10-25
I will provide an upgrade script later on. In the meantime I have moved all scripts to lupin-support... Which will make things easier.

---

### Post by sanus|art on 2007-12-23
I had success updating [not upgrating to 7.10] ubuntu with:
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
on my hp laptop. Anyway, it is better to creat backups of 'disks' folder before.

---

### Post by tuxcantfly on 2007-12-23
> **sanus|art said:**
> I had success updating [not upgrating to 7.10] ubuntu with:
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
on my hp laptop. Anyway, it is better to creat backups of 'disks' folder before.

"do-release-upgrade" (recommended, ubuntu-specific approach) and "apt-get dist-upgrade" (debian standard) are actually the way apt-get based distros are upgraded from release to release; "apt-get upgrade" will only do a partial upgrade of packages (see [http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/apt-howto/ch-apt-get.en.html#s-dist-upgrade](http://www.debian.org/doc/manuals/apt-howto/ch-apt-get.en.html#s-dist-upgrade) ), which is probably why it worked for you, since the new kernel packages were kept back, and you're thus still running off the ubuntu 7.04 kernel and core system components, though the rest was upgraded.

However, as it stands now, your system is somewhat a hybrid between ubuntu 7.04 and ubuntu 7.10 (new gnome and other gui components from 7.10, but kernel and core system software from 7.04), since the system was only partially upgraded, so you might run into issues later on when installing new core-system packages (which is why this sticky-thread is advising for the longer, but more reliable approach of a standard release-upgrade from a standard-partition install).

---

### Post by sanus|art on 2007-12-25
Hi tuxcantfly,
You're right. There might be some version mixes,but it working great so far [fore more than a week - no problems] . I had an problem when every update was breaking my system so *apt-get upgrade* was the only thing that i was able to update with. I mean basic stuff -  like software updates and drivers.

Have a nice day.

---

