---
title: "10.04 flashing hard drive light"
date: 2011-09-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by as2000 on 2011-09-19
After I replaced the dvd burner with a blu-ray burner and doing some clean up on the hard drive, the drive light flashes about every 2 seconds when there is no activity. I have checked system monitor and QPS and nothing strange is running. Curiously, my wifes computer does the same thing. I have never had this happen before and I would like some ideas what the cause might be.

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2011-09-19
Have you tried [monitoring disk I/O with iotop]("http://ubuntu-snippets.blogspot.com/2009/04/iotop-monitor-disk-io-by-process.html")?  That should tell you exactly what is writing or reading to or from the disk when the light turns on.  The system monitor is not sufficient for this purpose because even if all your processes appear idle, there could still be disk activity.

---

### Post by as2000 on 2011-09-19
Thanks for the tip. I installed iotop and is no activity being displayed. Could be possible refresh to drives on sata channel?

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2011-09-19
Yes, if you have no indication of disk activity from your software at all, I'd check the hardware.  Maybe reseating the SATA cables would help.  You could also take a look at the cable connecting the hard disk LED to the motherboard.

---

### Post by as2000 on 2011-09-20
Reseated all cables including the hard drive light to motherboard. I still get the steady 2 second flash. Must have something to do with the Blu-Ray drive as that is the only piece of hardware that changed.

---

### Post by pytheas22 on 2011-09-20
It seems strange to me that an optical drive would cause that, but who knows.  Did you check the jumper settings on the hard disk and the Blu-ray drive?  Perhaps they're both set to master, or both to slave, or something like that is causing the trouble.

I'd also check your "dmesg" output to make sure there's no mention there of any hard disk problems.

---

