---
title: "Cairo-dock and black background"
date: 2008-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-25
I just install it on a new install xubuntu and it has a black area behind the dock?
What could be doing this.

---

### Post by Genius314 on 2008-09-25
You need a compositing window manager running (e.g. Compiz.)

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-25
Compiz is there. anything else?
BTW awn does the same thing.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-09-26
Could You post your xorg? Seems like you miss to load a library...

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-26
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"UseEdidFreqs"	"True"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

But you know I had loaded Gos in the machine and the dock work fine in the one.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-09-26
Doesnt have anything to do with Go unfortunately... I wasnt even able to compile a driver for my kernel some time ago, nvidia... But we are still more blessed than Ati users :)

Alright, back to your problem... Would you mind to tell us which card you have? 32bit or 64bit PC? Just a couple of infos which you might find useful if you would wanna help somebody :)

First, here's my Module section:

```

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

```

But my xorg still looks different. I don't know if it will make a change or not, but what else than trial and error can you do?

So, maybe try and Load each module, but not at once. Just take the code snippet above and comment everything out, then enable one after another. That way you'll find out what the problem could be.

Now, some more infos maybe, and i think this should be possible.

Actually, I have black backgrounds behind my bars only when I install new kernel/distros. 
After setting up my xorg.conf it always worked for me.
Or maybe try nvidia-xconfig to let your xorg be reconfigured.
But back it up if you decide to do so... Tho, not much you could lose anyway eh :)

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-26
The cards a AGP  TNT2 BRD-05-E15 REV C2
I will try the nvidia-xconfig see what happens.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-09-26
I think you're using the wrong driver then... TNT2 should work with rivafb tho, provided by nvidia-glx-legacy. Remove --purge your driver, and try and run:
```

sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy nvidia-xconfig

```
should do the trick for you I think. But make sure you completely remove your actual driver as they are conflicting.

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-26
Ok will do it when I get up . time for bed for me.

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-26
Didn't seem to help? maybe it is just the card and to old?
what it looks like .

[IMG]http://i36.tinypic.com/359jm2a.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-09-26
Maybe.

You may want to get a tiny script which will check if your hardware is capable to run compiz.

[Grab it here](http://blogage.de/files/3855/download?compiz-check_0.4-1_all.deb)

Install it, then in a terminal type:

```

compiz-check

```

to hopefully get output similar to this:

```

docter@doc-laptop:~$ compiz-check

Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.10
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         nVidia Corporation GeForce 8600M GT (rev a1)
 Driver in use:         nvidia
 Rendering method:      Nvidia

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [ OK ]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [ OK ]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [ OK ]

docter@doc-laptop:~$ 


```

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-26
Here is the out put.
> Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         nVidia Corporation NV5M64 [RIVA TNT2 Model 64/Model 64 Pro] (rev 15)
 Driver in use:         nvidia
 Rendering method:      Nvidia

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [FAIL]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [FAIL]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
 Error: Couldn't check the amount of memory on your Nvidia chip. 

Would you like to know more? (Y/n) y

 That does not mean, you won't be able to use Compiz.
 If everything else went OK you are most probably fine.

 In case you want the script to check this step as well, install the program
 nvidia-settings on your system. 

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-09-26
Well, there ya go, you'll need texture from pixmap support enabled to get it working. Guess you won't be able to get it going unless you get a new graphics card (assuming you installed the right driver and your xorg.conf is set up correctly)

Did you install the nvidia-glx-legacy driver as I suggested?

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-26
I just check again to make sure and I did install it. 
So nothing I can do about it?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-09-26
I honestly don't know the specs of your card... But as the compiz-check output says you lack sth, either hardware capabilities, or, which wouldnt be much of a problem, just the right driver yet...

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-26
And like i said before [gOS]("www.thinkgos.com") runs just fine with enlightenment and the dock they use?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-09-26
Well, I never ran enlightenment, but it's written for older cards and hardware right? 
So they will have coded it to work without having to many/high hardware requirements. 
Maybe stick to gOS?
Y didnt you like it, it looks quite nice the screenshot on their homepage?

---

### Post by Atsuko on 2008-09-26
It's really dumb-down to use.
Can't do much with it that I could tell. 
I may install Debian with enlightenment as I think Debian may have the driver I need in it already.
Plus the old compaq deskpro would run better on that i think.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-09-26
Yep, I prefer debian too.
Sry I couldnt really help you...

l8rs

---

### Post by pickarooney on 2008-11-22
i have this same issue. I didn't activate compiz because my machine can't handle it. Is there no way to minimise the blackness or should I try find a kicker that doesn't require compiz?

BTW how can you tell if compiz is enabled?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-22
```

ps x

```

Will show you your actually running processes, pipe it with | grep compiz, for instance, and you'll get:
> 
docter[~] ps x | grep compiz
15669 ?        SL     1:34 compiz --replace --sm-disable --ignore-desktop-hints ccp --loose-binding
16687 pts/4    S+     0:00 grep --color=auto compiz
docter[~] 


If you get the last line only, it's not enabled. This is your search.

You could invoke it somewhat ugly with:
```
ps x | grep compiz | grep -v grep
```

> docter[~] ps x | grep compiz | grep -v grep
15669 ?        RL     1:39 compiz --replace --sm-disable --ignore-desktop-hints ccp --loose-binding
docter[~] 


But, however, without compiz cairo won't run. Well, it will, but not have a transparent background for one point...

---

### Post by pickarooney on 2008-11-23
Thanks. Compiz is, as I figured, not running. I got the same problem with SimDock (black window).It seems xfwm4 or xcompmgr can replace compiz in running AWN. Maybe the same is true for Cairo, but searches for the two link to lots of bugs and glitches...

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-23
Jap, you do need a composition manager to get this working well... 

These, the xcompmgrs, make things transparent, 3D and funny stuff like wobbly windows and such, cause the screen is transformed to triangles to be able to add the third dimension. So, without it, transparency won't work.

Humm, but the actually are quite some alternatives, I stumbeled upon a java "dockbar" (sth like), wasn't too bad. wbar I remember as well.

---

### Post by pickarooney on 2008-11-24
Well, I tried the compositor native to xfce with Cairo-dock last night and it seems a lot smoother then AWN with Compiz in Gnome (not sure which of those three elements or a combination of all of them makes the difference). There were a couple of dropped frames when I played back a video so I'll need to play around with some setting to try and minimise GPU/CPU usage elsewhere.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-24
I'd say AWN is the main problem here ^^ Don't like it at all actually.Cairo is a very good dock, prlly the best maintained, tho I didn't and still don't get really familiar with it.

But the coding is very good. Anyway, good luck with this :)

You could as well make up a custom Desktop environment, based on your prefered apps. Most utils for xfce like session manager, theme choser, panel etc, are available as single pkges, and they're able to run on any X server. So this may be sth to consider.

---

### Post by yashpatel on 2009-11-06
I had the same problem too. I installed nvidia graphics driver and it solved my problem.

---

