---
title: "i have probleme to read video flv and webcam"
date: 2009-09-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pistance on 2009-09-24
hi everyone, sorry for my english
i have probleme whith my xorg, this is my /etc/x11/xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2009-09-24
What's the problem? This is what you will get from **sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg** as most xorg settings are now hidden away and get dealt with automagically.

Need more information of what is not working for you....

---

### Post by pistance on 2009-09-24
i m doing **sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg**
but no resolt

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2009-09-24
As I said, running that command will only produce a very basic xorg.conf. What result are you expecting?

---

