---
title: "9.10 strabge sound from my HP dv2000"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vios15 on 2009-10-31
Hi, I just upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10, but encounter strange sound from the system in my HP dv2000 every few second. The sound is not from the speaker. Could anyone help to clear the "unwanted" sound?

---

### Post by gunashekar on 2009-10-31
Is the sound coming from your speakers? or do you hear it even after muting your speakers?p
If it is not from your speaker, there are are very few moving parts in these computers and you can find the source. A common one would be your cd/dvd drive. Check if you have a disc in the drive that could be causing the noise.

---

### Post by vios15 on 2009-10-31
Hi, confirmed, not from the laptop speaker, dvd drive is empty too. In fact, I have dual boot, Vsita and Ubantu, only Ubantu 9.10 gave out the strange sound, sound like "tock" every few second. 
 
Im runing Vista now, but no funny sound, so does 9.04 before upgrade.

---

### Post by harrycorleon on 2009-11-06
This might sound wierd but i also had the same problem (the tock sound every few seconds).
I observed that, while having the sound preferences (right click on the gnome-volume-control-applet to find sound preferences) window open the sound stopped. I am also using dv2000 series laptop, so hopefully this might work.

---

### Post by moscx on 2009-11-09
Hello!
I have the exact some problem.
Upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and I now get the "tock sound" once in a while. I try to ignore it but sometimes it can get really annoying.
I also have Vista and there I don't have this sound problem (but I have others and Vista its even more annoying...).
Tried to mute sound but didn't stop it.
Also tried the sound preferences technique but unfortenely didn't work.
I have been hoping that an updated would magically solve the problem, but I guess I can't wait on my ***.
So, I know we are not alone...
I tried to find other peole with the some problem for eventual solutions. I only find out this tread.
Anyone has a suggestion to try and fix this?
Think removing all sound drivers and re-installing them might solve it?
Any help will be welcomed!

---

### Post by philinux on 2009-11-09
If it's this bug you got [LP 382140]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/fedora/+source/linux/+bug/382140")
 then you need to edit this file.
```
/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf

```

See post #11

It sounds like a thud on my machine. It's the hda power saving kicking in and out.

Other bugs like it have been reported. There are a lot of duplicates.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/446987](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/446987)

---

### Post by moscx on 2009-11-09
Hello Phill!
Many thanks! The solution you indicated worked!
You gave me some of my sanity back.  ;)
Best regards

---

