---
title: "Ubuntu Screen Resolution Reconfiguration"
date: 2009-02-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Asuri Rosetti on 2009-02-26
Alright, I know this is a very repetitive inquiry. But out of all the advice I've gotten, I can't seem to make it work. My version of Ubuntu is 8.10 (Intrepid Ibex). 

Here is my Graphics Information:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01) 

My /etc/X11/xorg.conf information is as follows:

[COLOR="Black"][PHP]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection[/COLOR][/PHP]

Yes, this is my first time using Linux (I threw a rock at the "Window") The resolution I keep getting when I go to System > Preferences> Screen Resolution is 640x480(4:3) My monitor has a reccommended setting of 1440x900 (with 60 Hz Refresh Rate). I've tried and tried as I can, yet I cannot succeed. Someone, please help. 640x480 is killing me!!!!!!

-Your dear Ubuntu-newbie.

---

### Post by CiaoCiao on 2009-02-26
Disclaimer >> I'm no expert on this <<

But here goes...

Your xorg.conf file is missing a lot of information, namely the supported resolutions.

I am not familiar enough to say if the Vesa driver is the correct one for the onboard video card...If you get graphics then obviously it must work well enough...But I would "guess" that you should be using a different driver..

In the xorg.conf file you see the command you need to run to re-generate the .conf file...When you get the screen for supported resolutions, you should be able to select multiple resolutions...I would expect running this command to fix your problem...

Enable several supported resolutions to play with...

Good luck...

#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

In a nutshell this is what I had to do to get it to work..

Don't forget to stop gdm first, run the dpkg command, then you can run gdm after.... Search the forums...There are plenty of discussions on doing this at the command line....

Sorry, hopefully someone else will give a better answer...

---

### Post by Asuri Rosetti on 2009-02-26
Everyone has been saying to do that. But I'm getting this little message:

[PHP]
asuri-rosetti@ROSE-Domain:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
[sudo] password for asuri-rosetti: 
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20090226210104[/PHP]

Nothing will happen when I input the $ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

I get stuck here.

---

