---
title: "9.04 Jaunty: boot/login failure (blank screen, no response at all)"
date: 2009-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xX_CENTURION_Xx on 2009-05-30
I installed Ubuntu 9.04 (jaunty) on a slightly older machine about two weeks ago, until now it has been working perfectly with no problems.
But last night, i tired to boot my computer; everything was going fine, until i got to where the login screen is supposed to be. the loading bar with the Ubuntu logo above it worked fine, although it seemed to load faster than usual. but where the login screen is supposed to be, there is nothing, just black (but my monitor did not go into standby, so it was still receiving a signal)
i use a numeric password, and usually if i forget to turn num lock on while loging in, the case speaker beeps at me, when i tried logging in blind it did not. there was no sound upon reaching the "login" screen either.

i have tried another videocard, and i get the same problem, which leads me to beleive that this is a software issue. so i am wondering if anyone here can help me out, it would be greatly appreiciated :)

[i will post a list of my full hardware specs later, as i am unfamiliar with this machine :P]

---

### Post by chouse626 on 2009-05-31
I currently have the same issue.  I've read through multiple forums and received all kinds of advice from editing the xorg.conf file to reinstalling the xserver package.  So far nothing has worked.  

I did find the following command from a user and did it while in recovery mode using the command prompt

dmesg | grep -i failed and it showed me that....

Resume from disk failed
uvcvideo: Failed to query (this error was multiple times)

So I'm assuming this is all some kind of system resume issue.  Unfortunately, I find many other people with this problem that end up reinstalling because they can't get it to work.  I'm a little concerned that it will end up happening again and I don't want to have to reinstall constantly.

I was able to run the livecd and mount my drive and take my files off so I guess that is some what of a plus.  If you find a solution please let me know.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2009-05-31
If I had this problem the first thing I would do would be to get diagnostic software for my hard drive and check the integrity of my drive.

---

### Post by robertmaul on 2009-06-24
this happened to me and i had to reinstall ubuntu netbook remix  and now it has just happened again.

my background did show up though and when i right clickedi was able to create a firefox launcher and  start firefos to get here and type this.

perhaps it's slightly diff scenario but messages i got in the process were some errors to do with a keyring.

it's like gnome is not started since there is no window frame around the firefox window i started.

i have am typing on a brand new asus 900ha and i used xxclone in xp to clone the c partition on to a 500gb drive.

after all said and done i had 40 gb ntfs part for xp, 380 gb for ntfs scratch (fdisk) and 40 gb ext3 for netbook remix running in dual boot mode.

the initial login went smooth and i started adding launchpad ppa to my software source list and adding software like vlc and other usual stuff.

i didn't muck around too much but kept getting prompted for a network keyring password or saw error messagaes like that.

i installed jaunty on a dell inspiron laptop in a similar dual boot fashion with no problem.  fyi i had to use acronis true image to clone the entire drive then gparted on system rescue cd .   i tried clonezilla but it's too fussy about not cloninng bigger to smaller partitions and making things bootable.  so after about 10 failed attempts i went with acronis.  (all because xxclone does no work with vista)

come to think of it  the desktop install came up wih the ubuntu classic window view.

both times i had my login problem was when i had changed the remix install from the new ubuntu windows default with the menus on the left and places on the right, to the
ubuntu classic view with the panels on top and bottom and application, places and system menu in the top panel on the upper left.

who came up with that new default ubuntu windows view?  wow does that suck.

by the way i hate the new ubuntu window view default with came default with hardy...

i didn't like it so i loaded intrepid and the classic view was the default.

it took me 3 days messing around googling everything thinking it was theme related.

until i went through every single system admin and preferences item until i found that one little screen that listed the ubuntu new view and classic view radio buttons.

and why the hell is classic view default in intrepid and jaunty desktop and the new view default in hardy and jaunty remix.

i thought i was going to lose my mind with that sh*t.

i have intrepid running on my asuss 1000h eee-pc  with the array.org stuff and i think i will go back to that for the 900ha until this jaunty crap is sorted out.

thank god for that array.org guy

i got one of the first asus 1008ha eee PCs and love it but can't figure out how to get the back off and pop out the 160 gb  and replace it with a 500gb one.  i am sure i am not pgoing to install jaunty netbook remix and will stick with intrepid plus array.org stuff.

(especially if it's major surgery to swap out a hard drive)

BUT GEE WHIZ IT SURE IS PURDY!

---

### Post by DavidFromCanada on 2009-08-13
Ya I have this problem as well. I'm quite unhappy with Jaunty as whole on my Eee PC 701.

---

### Post by Skinnybill on 2010-01-02
i got this on karmic, dunno if its exaactly the same but i just get the mouse appear, no login screen, no backgound, no sound. I can get into console but thats it

---

