---
title: "14.04 Maximized window offset(fglrx)"
date: 2014-08-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by curtis6 on 2014-08-25
I'm running Ubuntu 14.04 On my Alienware m15x and ever since I've install the fglrx drivers I can't maximize windows without them being visually offset like so

[ATTACH=CONFIG]255866[/ATTACH]

so when I click anything I have to offset the click a 1/8 inch to the right
Anyone have any ideas on how to fix this?

---

### Post by csdivad on 2014-09-03
bump...

---

### Post by csdivad on 2014-10-03
Bump again,
I'm on Ubuntu 14.04 and using the new Catalyst 14.9 (fglrx 14.301.1001) from AMD website.
I don't have this problem with chrome now (I used to be with older driver).
Now I only have problem with Minecraft.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]256914[/ATTACH]

Is it purely a driver problem? If it is, I know that nothing can be done and the blame is on AMD.

---

### Post by acerspyro2 on 2014-11-10
Let's bump together :D
I know it's not very useful to say "It happens to me too", but I do find this bug extremely annoying. Been happening on both 14.04 and 14.10, tried FGLRX and FGLRX-updates, does not happen with the Open-Source drivers. Acer Aspire 5742G-7353 i3, ATI Radeon HD 5470. I've seen it happen with Blender and Chromium so far. Seems OpenGL-related. In blender, in the user settings, you can also see that the window's display is bumped up until you resize it, maximized or not.
Also, csdivad, be it an AMD problem or not, Unity is not interacting correctly with the driver and the problem is within Unity.

---

### Post by danep on 2014-11-12
I'm having the same issue with Chrome on a fresh install of Ubuntu 14.10. Using fglrx from the repository (14.201). I'm hesitant to try upgrading fglrx to 14.301 since other folks have reported conflicts with Ubuntu 14.10.

There's a duplicate issue here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2225451](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2225451)

Would love to know of a fix or workaround!

---

### Post by acerspyro2 on 2014-11-18
Shall I bump again? Yes, I shall.
Check on the thread linked atop ([Here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2225451")) where I have posted a pretty complete reply about this.

---

### Post by acerspyro2 on 2014-11-22
[Here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/fglrx-installer/+bug/1390234") is the link to the bug report I posted.

---

