---
title: "9.04 Freezing Problems and VLC Problem"
date: 2009-07-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-07-11
I've had this problem ever since I upgraded to 9.04, but I don't really want to have to switch back to 8.10. Sometimes my computer freezes. I can't do anything at all and the Lock lights (Num Lock, Scroll Lock, Caps Lock) don't even go on and off. I have to reset, and when I do reset, sometimes it freezes before it loads up fully after logging in and sometimes even at the log in screen. And sometimes my whole computer freezes, but the Lock lights blink on and off, except for the Num Lock one which was on at the time that it froze. Also, sometimes (I guess Compiz dies or something) my windows go weird (The title bar and stuff look weird), and the panels disappear, along with my internet connection. Luckily none of those happened while making this topic. Most of the time, it happens when I'm doing a lot of stuff, but sometimes it's just random and for pretty much no reason at all. (Or at least no reason that I know about.)
For VLC, I get an error for some reason. It never did this before. I was using 9.04, so it's not a problem when I upgraded. I Googled it and I found a topic here, but the person somehow got it fixed and they didn't even know why. This is the error I get:
```
No suitable decoder module:
VLC does not support the audio or video format "avc1". Unfortunately there is no way for you to fix this.
```
Can someone help me with these problems?

---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-07-11
Bump.

---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-07-15
It's been four days and it's on page 62. I need another bump. And some help.

---

### Post by nacho32 on 2009-07-16
ok hear is what  to try it will nero it down.
can you run it off the live cd? does every thing work fine off the live cd? If answer is yes your system is really #$% do not upgrade do a fresh install.   back to first part if it doesn't run off the live cd, make sure the bios is up to date and set correctly.

---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-07-16
Okay. I'll try that.
It froze within the first two minutes. How do I make sure the bios in up to date? And how do I know if it's set wrong or not?

---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-07-17
I can't even use my computer anymore. It freezes way too often. I tried and I couldn't find anything *wrong* with the bios settings. Is there something that should be set a certain way so that it won't freeze? Should I use OpenBIOS? Would that help at all?

---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-07-20
Bump. It has to be my bios settings, but I don't know how to fix it. Help please.

---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-07-25
Bump.

---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-08-02
Bump.

---

### Post by bridabom73 on 2009-08-06
Bump.

---

