---
title: "18.04 install won't boot, maybe issue with systemd-tmpfiles-setup"
date: 2018-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by d00d1234 on 2018-12-30
I dual boot with Ubuntu 18.04 and Win 10. My setup has worked fine for months. Last time I booted into my linux drive was maybe two weeks ago, I don't remember anything remarkable but maybe something happened that I didn't notice. I sat down to get some work done today and now my install won't boot at all.

I've run file system check on the volume, all good. I've checked the boot log and seen two failed to starts. One is "Failed to start Process error reports when automatic reporting is enabled". It doesn't seem like this is the error that's causing the boot issue because the other one that pops up seems more serious. That is: "Failed to start Create Volatile Files and Directories". When I looked deeper at that service status (after booting into recovering, enabling networking and going to root) it said that the service failed. 

I also ran a bootrepair from a livedisk, that didn't seem to do anything.

Any suggestions? I'm trying to avoid having to do a fresh install cause then I have to spend time getting my environment up and running again and that's a massive pain. 

Screenshots (sorry, couldn't screencap so I took photos):

1) This is what I see when I try to boot. The Ubuntu loading screen goes for a couple minutes then I see this (with the character errors)


2) Then the prev screen will refresh after a couple mins and fix the character errors and show me this:


3) Failure from the bootlog


4) Finally, here's what I get when I check the service status.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-12-31
It looks like you logged in as root. Ubuntu is configured not to really use root user, but use sudo command whenever you need to do something administrative.

 Forum rules on root vs. sudo
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1486138](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1486138)
[http://xkcd.com/149/](http://xkcd.com/149/)

---

### Post by clementc on 2018-12-31
Hi [**[COLOR=#000000]d00d1234[/COLOR]**]("https://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=2115155"),

It looks like you ran into [this bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1804603").

Can you please try running the following command to make sure that the ownership of your root folder (/) actually belongs to root:

chown root.root /

---

