---
title: "11.10 on Acer AO722"
date: 2012-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zeug on 2012-04-24
Hey, so I installed Xubuntu 11.10 on an Acer Aspire One 722 and there a few things that I cannot seem to figure out:
[LIST]
[*]keyboard shortcuts made through Settings>Keyboard>Application Shortcuts seem to be forgotten every so often; upon opening up the dialog again, and re-establishing the key combination, the shortcut it then removed from the list completely, making me have to add it again. What is weird about this is that the shortcut remains in the XML file, until it is strangely removed from the list after re-establishing the key combination.  Also, using "xfdesktop --reload", or "killall xfdesktop", does not work in re-establishing the shortcuts in the XML file.


[*]more specifically, is there a way to establish keys to control the volume?  Right now, I map the volume-up/volume-down keys using the Application Shortcuts (mentioned above), but it is forgotten quite often.  It is using "amixer -c 1 -- sset Master playback".


[*]It seems that using "xmodmap -e "clear Lock"" does not disable the caps-lock key.  Why would that be?  Though, I can use "xmodmap -pke" to output a config file, edit it to clear the caps-lock key (key 66), and load it with xmodmap.
[/LIST]

Thanks.

---

### Post by zeug on 2012-04-26
No one? Bump.

Also, it seems that setting the shortcut XML to read-only does not help.

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-04-26
I have the same setup as you and I don't experience this.
Perhaps your XML file (I assume it's ~/.config/xfce4/xfconf/xfce-perchannel-xml/xfce4-keyboard-shortcuts.xml) is faulty.
I would recommend your reset it. It's not simple because a copy of it remains in memory for use by xfce4-settings-manager.
The easiest would be to log out, switch to tty1 (Ctrl-Alt-F1) and delete the file. Then log back in (Ctrl-Alt-F7) and see if the problem is still there.

Cheers!

---

### Post by zeug on 2012-04-26
Thanks!

Yeah, I tried deleting the XML file, and things seem to be working now.  Also, I tried copying over the XML file
```
~/.config/xfce4/xfconf/xfce-perchannel-xml/xfce4-keyboard-shortcuts.xml
```
to
```
/etc/xdg/xfce4/xfconf/xfce-perchannel-xml/xfce4-keyboard-shortcuts.xml
```
And, followed [this]("https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Xfce#Keyboard_shortcuts_are_not_working") from the Arch forums.  That seems to work, for now.

Any clues on how to set the audio mute key?  It does not seem to work; it controls 'IEC958' according to amixer, and does not help in controlling 'Master'.

Thanks.

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-04-26
First, you must put this custom asound.conf file inside /etc/
```
pcm.pulse {
    type pulse
}
ctl.pulse {
    type pulse
}
pcm.!default {
    type pulse
}
ctl.!default {
    type pulse
}

```
Then bind the multimedia keys to the following commands:

Raise volume
```
amixer set Master 5%+ unmute
```
Lower volume
```
amixer set Master 5%- unmute
```
Mute/unmute
```
amixer set Master toggle
```

---

### Post by zeug on 2012-04-26
It seems the fix for the shortcuts, that I mentioned, did not work.  Instead, I disabled the XFCE volume daemon: the shortcuts to the multimedia keys were preserved this way.  Also, the Xfce settings helper is disabled.  With that, the shortcuts are, at least, preserved when logging out and back in; it seems the XML file was just fine.

Thanks, **LewisTM**, the conf file that you mentioned helped in assigning the mute key properly.  Where did you find that fix?  Also, would you happen to know how to mute that charger-beep, instead of just lowering the volume?

Though, it would still be interesting to know why the caps lock cannot be cleared as per normal, and "xfdesktop --reload" does not work in refreshing when the XML file is changed.

Cheers.

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-04-26
I find that Xubuntu is the perfect match for this machine except for volume control where is fails miserably. The volume daemon does nothing and you don't even see volume notifications.

The asound.conf is a common fix to reconcile xfce4-mixer, which controls ALSA only, with Ubuntu which is based on Pulseaudio. It solves a lot of Xubuntu sound issues.

Your xfce4-settings-helper is probably not really disabled since it is the program that handles shortcuts. You kill it and shortcuts don't work. You should still find it in the task manager. I think disabling it in the startup apps does nothing.

Reloading xfdesktop should only refresh the desktop config - icons and wallpapers and whatnot - not the whole Xfce session.

Not sure about the CAPS. Maybe CAPS is hardware-bound since activating it also shifts the number keys to symbols !@#$ etc. as if the Shift key was being held.

Apparently you can mute the BEEP within Windows but that beast is long gone from my system.

You can find more tips about the Acer 722 in this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811178") which is still very active.

---

### Post by zeug on 2012-04-26
Thanks for the information!

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-05-21
Good news!
I found if you set the xfce4-mixer to use the right PulseAudio device, the daemon should work which means multimedia keys and volume notifications.
Go to xfce4-settings-editor/xfce4-mixer
Set both active-card and sound-card to
PlaybackBuiltinAudioAnalogStereoPulseAudioMixer
Can differ depending on your language, refer to the sounds-cards list.

After a reboot, it's possible the Mixer will try to control the HDMI audio instead of the internal one. Just disable the HDMI audio in pavucontrol, log out and log back in. The mixer should now have picked up the internal audio. You can now re-enable HDMI.

---

### Post by zeug on 2012-05-29
**LewisTM**: That solution does not seem to work.  As mentioned, I changed the entries of both active-card and sound-card; more specifically, to *PlaybackInternalAudioAnalogStereoPulseAudioMixer* since that was listed under the list of sound-cards and the one that you posted was not.  After a reboot, it seems that the media keys controls neither the internal audio nor the HDMI audio.

Thanks for the update, though!

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-05-30
I'm sorry this doesn't work for you. I have a feeling we are not running the same software. I have upgraded to 12.04 with Xfce 4.10 so that might make a difference. I did notice a few sound issues after the upgrade, some good, some bad.
For one I was able to tweak the sound notification into working (see above). However the microphone needed some serious [tweaking]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11932004&postcount=6") and I had to disable HDMI sound output altogether because Pulse kept reverting to it by default and I had not idea how to tell it otherwise.

---

### Post by r_howie on 2012-07-01
I installed Xubuntu 12.04 on my Acer AO522, it's pretty responsive. :)

One issue is that my default browser setting (Chromium) is forgotten after every reboot.

Question: can the tips at the [Acer Aspire One 722 Ubuntu 11.04 fixes](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1811178) thread be applied "as is" to Xubuntu as well? I'm particularly interested in power management (jupiter) and power regression in Linux kernel.

This fixed the volume controls for me, thanks:
> **LewisTM said:**
> Good news!
I found if you set the xfce4-mixer to use the right PulseAudio device, the daemon should work which means multimedia keys and volume notifications.
Go to xfce4-settings-editor/xfce4-mixer
Set both active-card and sound-card to
PlaybackBuiltinAudioAnalogStereoPulseAudioMixer
Can differ depending on your language, refer to the sounds-cards list.

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-07-01
Jupiter is always a good idea. The kernel regressions are no longer necessary in 12.04 with all the improvements.
Most of the fixes are no longer needed or don't work perfectly well. 

So far, I have found the only way to eliminate freezups is with the network boot trick, anything else doesn't work (or works only for a time). Unless you want to sacrifice your ethernet port.

For the HDD clicking problem, the hdparm command only works as long as you don't switch the AC/battery back and forth. A better solution is to edit the /etc/hdparm.conf and insert these two lines
```
apm = 255
apm_battery=254
```
The preferred browser should be set in the Xfce settings manager, not from inside the browser.

Cheers!

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-07-02
The latest tip on how to eliminate lockups DOES work so go ahead and use it!

---

### Post by frojnd on 2012-07-05
LewisTM,

I've made a clean alternate xubuntu 12.4 install...

Wifi works out of the box: 07:00.0 Network controller: Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller (rev 01)

But I found out that ethernet must be first to boot in bios, otherwise system simply freezes.. but I can manage with that (it only takes 3 seconds of boot time)

Now to the sound. Can you please make a simple how to set media keys (volume up/down) to work with sound? 

I've red the forum, but everything is mixed up. For that I'd be much grateful. 

Also I can't seem to find "jupter" package.

Other than thatm, xubuntu is really responsive in compare to ubuntu :)

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-07-05
Hi,

First try out what is written in post #9. If that fails try post #5 as fallback. Let me know if that works for you or if you need more details.

Jupiter can be found as a PPA (personal archive)
```
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:webupd8team/jupiter -y && sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install jupiter -y
```

Have fun with Xubuntu!

---

### Post by frojnd on 2012-07-07
LewisTM,

thanx for juputer ppa repo hint. Method from post #5 worked for me without disabling HDMI.

Since I've installed xubuntu from alternate usb method, what do I have to install to get approriate third party multimedia codecs? 

The reason I'm asking this is because whenever I open even a DVDrip with VLC/mplayer playback is not smooth at all. It's like watching 1fps

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-07-07
Do you have the xubuntu-restricted-extras package installed?
Also enable the multiverse repositories in your software sources and install mplayer2 and smplayer or [umplayer]("http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/package/getdeb_apps/precise/apps/getdeb/umplayer") for maximum performance. Set the player preferences to use two cores, necessary for HD video.

---

### Post by frojnd on 2012-07-11
LewisTM,

I've installed  **xubuntu-restricted-extras**, also mplayer2 and umplayer. Multiverse repositories were already enabled. 

The playback is now smooth. But when I try to full screen in vlc mplayer2 or umplayer video won't play in full screen mode. It would just put black around and be the same size as windowed video. What I might forget to install?

EDIT: not restricted drivers, but xubuntu-restricted-extras

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-07-11
I don't use the proprietary driver, only the open source, since I want to be able to suspend the machine.
Maybe change the output driver in VLC / Umplayer video preferences?

---

### Post by frojnd on 2012-07-11
I've misstyped, I also use open source drivers for radeon...

I've changed output driver in umplayer to X11 and I can watch video in full screen mode. But there is flickering.

---

### Post by frojnd on 2012-07-31
After trying fglrx driver flickering is still there. In VLC or in UMPLAYER, I prefer umplayer since it's faster and lighter and less resource hungry..

I've installed VLC with apt-get install vlc commad from default repo, umplayer was installed from ppa: 
> sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nilarimogard/webupd8
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install umplayer

Flickering happens with DVDrips (.avi) hd movies (.MOV, .mkv, etc) I think this has something to do with codecs or with my settings in vlc/umplayer. Any ideas how can I solve this flickering problem?

Also I've found out that while typing on a keyboard sometimes I accidently press on a touchpad and cursor moves on other part of text where I'm typing which is annoying. How can I automatically disable touchpad after 2 seconds while typing on a keyboard?

And lastly what tweaks do you use to speed up xubuntu in general for this netbook?

---

### Post by LewisTM on 2012-07-31
I'm not 100% sure what you mean by flickering. Do you mean the video is choppy and drops frames?

For optimizing UMplayer, go to Preferences (Ctrl-P) -> Performance and pick two cores for decoding. Allow the Loop Filter to skip on HD only. Also, mplayer2 must be installed, NOT mplayer.

You can disable the touchpad while typing in the Xfce settings -> Mouse and touchpad -> Touchpad device

For speeding up, I have taken advantage of the generous 4 GB RAM and have installed the **preload** daemon.
```
sudo apt-get install preload
```
You can also move your tmp dir to RAM with this line in /etc/fstab
```
tmpfs /tmp tmpfs defaults 0 0
```

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by frojnd on 2012-08-01
> **LewisTM said:**
> I'm not 100% sure what you mean by flickering. Do you mean the video is choppy and drops frames?

Yes. The video drops frames. It's like the picture would be toren apart.

I'll try your suggestions as soon as I get ao722 back in my hands.

---

### Post by MasterWayne on 2013-03-19
> **LewisTM said:**
> Good news!
I found if you set the xfce4-mixer to use the right PulseAudio device, the daemon should work which means multimedia keys and volume notifications.
Go to xfce4-settings-editor/xfce4-mixer
Set both active-card and sound-card to
PlaybackBuiltinAudioAnalogStereoPulseAudioMixer
Can differ depending on your language, refer to the sounds-cards list.

After a reboot, it's possible the Mixer will try to control the HDMI audio instead of the internal one. Just disable the HDMI audio in pavucontrol, log out and log back in. The mixer should now have picked up the internal audio. You can now re-enable HDMI.

thx :)

finally I resurrect my volume hotkey inc mute/unmute function :)

---

xubuntu 12.04 w/ xfce 4.10

---

