---
title: "Gutsy AMD 64 freeze, is it fixed yet?"
date: 2008-02-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-21
Hello,

I'm having this "Gusty freezing all the time" issue and and I read some old posts about it but none seem the be giving an idea on how to fix. It freezes completely and cannot do anything else but hard reboot. I'm doing it so often that I'm afraid I'm going to break my system.

Since I'm dealing with this for quite a while, I was wondering if someone discovered a way to overcome this problem.

My CPU is AMD 64bit but the Gutsy installation is i386.

Thank you. Looking forward for any news :)

Regards,
Rem.

---

### Post by astrotech226 on 2008-02-21
What kind of video card are you using?

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-21
It is GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x. I tried with and without the Nvidia driver and it's behaving the same.

---

### Post by astrotech226 on 2008-02-21
I've run numerous AMD64 installs and only have problems with NVidia cards and it locking up.  If you press ctl-alt-backspace, does the X server restart?

Also, is this single or dual core processor?  I've had cases where I've had a processor run at 100% usage on dual core machines and the laptop would get hot.  Fixes for this usually involved adding or removing noapic and nolapic options to the kernel line in grub.

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-21
Thanks for the reply.

Just to be as clear as possible. Even I have a 64bit processor, the Ubuntu Gutsy install is the regular one i386.

Yes, if I press CTRL + ALT + BACKSPACE, X restarts.

It is a single core processor, please see full specs bellow.

```
System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 2/21/2008 11:52:08 PM
http://sysinfo.r8.org

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the lenny/sid release.
	GNOME: 2.20.1 (Ubuntu 2007-10-19)
	Kernel version: 2.6.22-14-generic (#1 SMP Tue Feb 12 07:42:25 UTC 2008)
	GCC: 4.1.3 (i486-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: 1.3.0 (18 January 2008)
	Hostname: rem-desktop
	Uptime: 0 days 2 h 43 min

CPU INFORMATION
	AuthenticAMD, AMD Athlon(tm) 64 Processor 3000+
	Number of CPUs: 1
	CPU clock currently at 1000.000 MHz with 512 KB cache
	Numbering: family(15) model(44) stepping(2)
	Bogomips: 2010.48
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt lm 3dnowext 3dnow up pni lahf_lm ts fid vid ttp tm stc

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 1011 MB
	Total swap: 3482 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	Primary Master /dev/hda - disk
		Model: MAXTOR STM3250820A
		Capacity: 244.2 GB
		Cache: 8.192 MB
	Primary Master /dev/hdb - cdrom
		Model: HL-DT-ST DVDRAM GSA-4167B
		Capacity: no media

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
		Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Unknown device 0300
	PCI bridge(s)
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb AGP Host to PCI Bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb PCI-to-PCI Bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
	USB controller(s)
		nVidia Corporation CK8S USB Controller (rev a1) (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
		nVidia Corporation CK8S USB Controller (rev a1) (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20 [EHCI])
	ISA bridge
		nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb LPC Bridge (rev a2)
		Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Unknown device 0300
	IDE interface
		nVidia Corporation CK8S Serial ATA Controller (v2.5) (rev a2) (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
		Subsystem: Micro-Star International Co., Ltd. Unknown device 0300

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		nVidia Corporation NV18 [GeForce4 MX 440 AGP 8x] (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [VGA])

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		Aureal Semiconductor Vortex 2 (rev fa)
		Subsystem: Aureal Semiconductor AU8830 Vortex 3D Digital Audio Processor

NETWORK
	Ethernet controller
		Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
		Subsystem: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RT8139

NVIDIA GRAPHIC CARD INFORMATION
	Model name: GeForce4 MX 440 with AGP8X
	Card Type: AGP 8x
	Video RAM: 64 MB
	GPU Frequency: 274 MHz
	Driver version: NVIDIA Linux x86 Kernel Module  1.0-9639  Mon Apr 16 20:20:06 PDT 2007
```

Yes, sometimes my CPU heat goes up to 48 Celsius degrees (since the freezings I'm monitoring the CPU constantly)

> Fixes for this usually involved adding or removing noapic and nolapic options to the kernel line in grub. 

I'm really sorry, but I don't have a slightest clue on what that means

Thanks a lot for your help, I really appreciate it.

---

### Post by astrotech226 on 2008-02-21
In the first post, you said you had to reboot to get things working again.  But you said later that the X server restarts with ctl-alt-backspace.

If the X server restarts, do things go back to normal for a while or do you still have to do the reboot?

I recently had an issue similar to what you are describing and the problem was that the video card was bad.  Are you seeing any other anomalies like black boxes on the screen, green or red lines in random places that might disappear if you move a window through it?  Maybe even funny or blinking characters on the POST screens when you boot up?

Also, when it locks up, are you able to do a ctl-alt-f1 and get a terminal?  If so, log in and check what is at the end of /var/log/Xorg.0.log.  See anything about the video card being unresponsive for some period of time?

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-21
No, sorry, I misunderstood your question. If it freezes, then CTRL + ALT + BACKSPACE is not working. Neither the keyboard nor the mouse. Everything is locked up so I really need to hard reboot.
(Tried even the SysRq keys as saw in a post here and no go)

I haven't noticed anything strange on the screen.

Sometimes, after hard reboot, the Gnome session isn't loaded the way it was before (my theme, icons and window borders engine) instead it loads some default theme with Gnome default icons and I get a Gtk 1 looking pop-up with an error message saying that my session cannot be loaded (sorry, can't reproduce it entirely).

I am willing to give it a try with a new video card. Can you please recommend a not very expensive one? Maybe even a new sound card? I have a very cheap sound card, maybe that's what messes up my system. The problem is I can't go on without neither of them ...

Thanks.

---

### Post by astrotech226 on 2008-02-22
I don't think it's the video card then...

One last thing.  When it locks up, what happens if you hit the Caps lock or Num lock keys on the keyboard.  Do the corresponding lights change on the keyboard?

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-22
Nope, nothing. It's dead. Everything is locked, keyboard and mouse.

---

### Post by astrotech226 on 2008-02-22
I'm guessing some sort of hardware problem.  Do you have a different harddrive you can put in and run something else on it?  Like Fiesty?  It would easily prove it to be hardware or software.  The problem is that I've had cpu, ram and hard drives all lock up a pc at some point in time.  It doesn't look like the computer is even able to log what is going wrong.

I'd also try a memtest from the Live CD since it's pretty easy to do.

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-22
Thank you for your time. I will try everything you suggested. It'd would been so great to be the video card only but seems that in my case is pretty hard to identify the problem.

Best,
Rem.

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-02-22
Don't rule out it just being X lock up just yet. I've had X lock up to the point where I can no longer use my keyboard to switch VT or restart the Xserver using CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE, and everything seems dead. However, I've still been able to SSH in to the machine over the network and restart the X server. This hasn't happened on Gutsy with me AFAIK though.

Do you have a spare machine that you could use to try and SSH in to the frozen machine?

Also, to reboot a frozen machine, you could try the magic SysRq combination: [http://engstromfamily.com/node/12]("http://engstromfamily.com/node/12")

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-23
That's not a bad idea at all... I'll have to give it a try from my laptop. Can I SSH using the local IP address? Also, the ReqSys combination is not working, already tried that.

Thanks!

---

### Post by RumorsOfWar on 2008-02-23
I had a similar problem with my NV 7300. It turned out to be the BIOS. It was pointing at one video card slot while I have the other. 
I think your card is an AGP type (verify this). Next time you reboot, when you see the vendor logo (eg;compaq) hit the F key that starts the bios setup. Look for the video section and see if it is set for your card type.

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-24
> I had a similar problem with my NV 7300. It turned out to be the BIOS. It was pointing at one video card slot while I have the other.
I think your card is an AGP type (verify this). Next time you reboot, when you see the vendor logo (eg;compaq) hit the F key that starts the bios setup. Look for the video section and see if it is set for your card type.

yes, that makes sense also. i'll look into that, thanks for the tip!

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-25
While the desktop is not locked up, I can SSH and reboot it from my laptop just fine but when it is freezing (which of course it did several times over the weekend and already twice today) I cannot access it anymore. It says "no route to host" ...

Also, had a close look at the BIOS but can't see which one is my video card slot and which one is not so not sure where the heck it points to...

Thanks everybody for your time and if you have any other suggestions "to spare" I'd be more than happy to hear.

---

### Post by deepclutch on 2008-02-25
I dont know the fixes for freeze/locking of amd system.BUT...if u cannot do anything in a freezed system,u can reboot safely as follows:
follow below sequence:
press:
[B]1)ALT+SysRq+S (Sync)
2)ALT+SysRq+E(killall process)
3)Alt+SysRq+I (kill)[/B]
[B] 4)ALT+SysRq+U(unmount)
5)ALT+SysRq+B(reboot)
[/B]
and I hope Ubuntu have magic SysRq enabled(1)
u can check by " cat /proc/sys/kernel/sysrq" value be "1" for enabled systems ;)

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-25
Yes, the SysRq key is enabled, but do i have to press all the combinations above or just ALT + SYSRQ + B in order to reboot safely? I know I tested that alone on the not-freezed PC and it rebooted my system but when it is locked, the combination is not working anymore (already specified that at the beginning of this thread) seems like everything is disabled, including the SysRq key.

Will get back with updates. 

Thanks!

---

### Post by deepclutch on 2008-02-25
^u wont feel in a freezed desktop that these combinations are working :p
do in the sequence as above ;)

---

### Post by rem on 2008-02-27
> **deepclutch said:**
> ^u wont feel in a freezed desktop that these combinations are working :p
do in the sequence as above ;)

These are not working ... Everything is freezed up.. no SysRq keys, no boot from network, nothing. All I have to do is hard reboot.

---

### Post by zakiwi on 2008-03-19
Mate ... 

I thought that my problems of this nature were gone, but I get random lockups as well.  It happens usually when I'm running resource (graphics) intensive apps.  Quite sad really cause although my box is primarily a development unit, the odd game is sometimes in order.  2 mins on UrbanTerror or something like that freezes my box solid ... read no keyboard lights changing on NUM or CAPS lock.

For now ... I guess I'll just avoid the games ... pity really ...

Should have mentioned ... AMD64 on Intel Core 2 Quad, 8GB RAM, 8600 GTS graphics card

Cheers

Zakiwi

---

### Post by rem on 2008-03-20
It's never happening for me when I, let's say, watching movies, since I don't use to play games ... instead, when browsing the internet with Firefox (a lot), even using Nautilus or other common apps. It freezes during not very resource consuming tasks. Hopefully, this issue will be fixed once Hardy will be out.

---

### Post by rem on 2008-04-21
> **rem said:**
> Hopefully, this issue will be fixed once Hardy will be out.

Nope, it didn't... :(

---

### Post by FredB on 2008-04-21
Freezes ? Which ones ? I don't remember having freeze on ubuntu since edgy eft times...

---

