---
title: "11.04 Nvidia Xorg.conf and dual monitors"
date: 2011-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by interestinfellow on 2011-06-02
......(grumble).......

Ok, fresh install of 11.04 on a built system (frankenstein leftovers), 2.something ghz, 1gb ram, a host of drives, and a 64mb nvidia mx440 with svideo out.

Boots up, looks pretty, something about unity not finding 3d graphics (fine, i don't really want it, just more fancy gui crap to suck cpu cycles) and runs fairly well.  
so I think, cool, svideo out, old 52" rear projection....HTPCish. "Lemme get this thing hooked up to the tv, what a great idea"

So, I start looking around and find all kinds of wrong posts about not Natty, and not my video card, and I try this n that,and it doesn't work.  I'm all about reading the forums, but I can't find the right info for my sitiation, and I'm overwhelmed/irritated.

Long story short, I added some repository ppg something, and then dl'd and installed the "nvidia-current" driver.  After a reboot, I fire up the nvidia gui, and it tells me I have no xorg.conf and to run a particular command in terminal to make one.  So I did it. and after another reboot, my system just hangs at "ubuntu" with the four (five?) dots.
Reboot, recovery, something something something, safe graphics, backup your xorg.conf? yes. reboot and all is ok now. still no nvidia support. Now I'm reading the internet machine about the xorg.conf being old school, and how I have to make a monitor.conf file with config settings. only problem is it tells me to go to x11/xorg.conf.d/whatever.  I have no xorg.conf.d directory.

So what's the deal?  How in the hell do I get the nvidia driver installed (I think I got that), configured (I have no clue), and running (yeah, I just saw a flying pig)?

Please help a struggling idiot.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-06-03
> **interestinfellow said:**
> ...After a reboot, I fire up the nvidia gui...

What did you do exactly?
The correct procedure should be
```
gksu nvidia-settings
```
Do all your customisation from there.

---

### Post by interestinfellow on 2011-06-03
Teo?  as in from over on laptopforums?

I was going to system administration, "nvidia ?????".  I'm not at my computer right now. check later today.
thanks.

---

### Post by c-lou on 2011-06-05
Hi,

Did you solve your problem? I have the same (or similar) thing. When I run the NVIDIA X Server Settings tool and fix my screen resolution, and click the button to save the xorg.conf file, then I can't reboot. Just like you said, it freezes on the Ubuntu screen with the five dots.

If I boot in recovery mode and restore the backed-up xorg.conf file, then I can successfully restart the computer again - but still with the old (wrong) screen resolution. 

Let me know if you find a solution!

c-lou

---

### Post by interestinfellow on 2011-06-07
Sorry, life has held me up from getting this box straight...
No, I have not solved it, yet.

I was invoking the nvidia console from 
System>Administration>Nvidia X server configuration.
When I click on that I get a msg saying "you don't appear to be using the nvidia x-driver.blah blah..please edit your x configuration file and restart x server"

When I invoke that command you typed, it asks me for my pswd, and then the same window(s) and msg from above pop up.

What do I do?

---

### Post by interestinfellow on 2011-06-09
bump

---

### Post by interestinfellow on 2011-06-12
OK, I'm an idiot.
I booted xp, loaded the nvidia drivers there, plugged in the tv, rebooted, and BAM. It works, so I now knew the hardware was good.
So I rebooted to Ubuntu, and BAM (kind of). Dual monitors (mirror), but it's black and white, and not quite right.

Apparently, in order to set up dual monitors, you must have dual monitors hooked up \\:D/ :duh:

But my new problem(s):

It's black and white on the TV
It's mirrored. Can I get two independent displays?
It isn't centered, and the nvidia configuration utility still has an issue with xorg.conf not being there.

---

### Post by interestinfellow on 2011-06-12
SO, the xorg site says straight up (on the nvidia page) that xorg 1.1 doesn't work with the 96xx drivers (the ones I need for my mx440) and to use the noveau drivers.

off we go.

---

