---
title: "[SOLVED] Help, Ubuntu wont boot, need to edit grub.conf"
date: 2007-08-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LogeshP on 2007-08-29
I installed Fedora and now Ubuntu won't boot.  The Kubuntu logo comes on and install stops.  I am able to enter and run Ubuntu using SuperGrub.

Fedora works fine.  I want to edit its grub.conf file so that Ubuntu boots.
It looks like this:-

# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd0,3)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/sda4
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/sda

default=0
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd0,3)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz

title Fedora (2.6.22.4-65.fc7)
        root (hd0,3)
        kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22.4-65.fc7 ro root=LABEL=/1 rhgb quiet
        initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.22.4-65.fc7.img

title Fedora (2.6.21-1.3194.fc7)
        root (hd0,3)
        kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.21-1.3194.fc7 ro root=LABEL=/1 rhgb quiet
        initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.21-1.3194.fc7.img

#title Ubuntu
#       rootnoverify (hd0,1)
#       chainloader +1

title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.22-9-generic
root            (hd0,1)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-9-generic ro quiet splash
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-9-generic


title           Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.22-9-generic (recovery mode)
root            (hd0,1)
kernel          /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-9-generic
root=UUID=5401bfa7-976d-4db9-bc5b-de34c4a3936b ro single
initrd          /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-9-generic

title Windows
      rootnoverify (hd0,0)
      chainloader +1

---

### Post by scrooge_74 on 2007-08-29
Did you changed the partitions scheme and forgot to tell GRUB?

---

### Post by LogeshP on 2007-08-30
I did resize a partition before installing Fedora and I did not alter grub.conf on the Ubuntu partition.

How to fix?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-30
Hard to know what is missing with those Ubuntu enteries

When booting from CD, hit the "e" key to see the grub parameters and see if you have missed something.

---

### Post by gtdaqua on 2007-08-30
i had issues with resizing the partitions. What utility you used to resize?

can you give the output of "fdisk -l" (u need to get this running under root - obviously from a live CD now that ur OS won't boot). If u can get in recovery mode and do the above just run the command "free" and give the value of SWAP. 

Whenever you resize, you may have to reboot the OS and the swap partition. Happened to me and thank god, i sorted it out!

---

### Post by LogeshP on 2007-08-30
Thanks for the replies.

I used GParted to resize the sda4 partition for Fedora by including some space that was unallocated.

I was able to boot into Ubuntu directly using SuperGrub and make a boot disk which boots Ubuntu smoothly.

fdisk -l gives:-

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        1540    12370018+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            5100        9254    33375037+  83  Linux
/dev/sda3            9521        9729     1678792+   5  Extended
/dev/sda4            1541        5099    28587667+  83  Linux
/dev/sda5            9542        9729     1510078+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6            9521        9541      168619+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order

free gives:-
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:        515852     439160      76692          0      16928     270432
-/+ buffers/cache:     151800     364052
Swap:      1678676          0    1678676

The relevant entry in ubuntu's menu.lst is

title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.22-9-generic
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-9-generic root=UUID=5401bfa7-976d-4db9-bc5b-de34c4a3936b ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-9-generic
quiet
savedefault


When I copied this to Fedora's grub which provided only for chainloader for ubuntu (which didn't work) it complained of an unrecognised string (which I assume was a reference to the UUID) and stalled.  The entry I gave earlier was after my attempt to edit it to look a little more like the Fedora entry.

Is there some way I can pass contol back to ubuntus grub?

---

### Post by gtdaqua on 2007-08-31
honestly, not sure if I could help you out here. Probably you could work it out urself like this:

what are the Operating systems installed and how many are successfully booting up?
check the entries on the grub with the ones that not booting. Fedora might not recognise the UUID string. 

boot into the operating systems that you can and check the partition table entries with fdisk. 

I am not sure what else I can tell you from this point onwards.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-08-31
Your kernel line needs to be all one line.

In your original post you have :> title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.22-9-generic
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-9-generic ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-9-generic
[color=red]**#This kernel entry has no root and will "kernel panic"**[/color]

title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.22-9-generic (recovery mode)
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-9-generic
root=UUID=5401bfa7-976d-4db9-bc5b-de34c4a3936b ro single
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-9-generic[
[color=red]**#Well here we have the root= but it is not on the kernel line :( **[/color]

Try : ```
title Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.22-9-generic
root (hd0,1)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-9-generic root=UUID=5401bfa7-976d-4db9-bc5b-de34c4a3936b ro quiet splash
initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-9-generic
quiet
savedefault
[color=blue]**#We now have the proper kernel line :)**[/color]
```

===========

OR 

You can boot to Ubuntu and enter these commands :

```
sudo grub
```

You will get a grub command : grub >

```
grub > root (hd0,1)
grub > setup (hd0,1)
grub > quit
```

* dont enter the "grub >", just the commands

If you do this second procedure rather then updating menu.lst on Fedora, Ubuntu will "chainload"

This means when you boot to Ubuntu you will get a second grub screen. Once it is working in the Ubuntu menu.lst to set the default OS to ubuntu and the time out to 0 or 1.

The advantage is that if you do this you will not need to update the Fedora menu.lst when update the Ubuntu kernel.

If you *do not* do this, you will need to manually update the Fedora menu.lst after each Ubuntu kernel update.

---

### Post by LogeshP on 2007-09-02
Thanks.  The last post was really helpful.  The first solution worked perfectly.  Problem solved.

---

