---
title: "16.04 Metacity and monitor resolution and animation settings not saved"
date: 2016-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Handssolow on 2016-08-07
Upgrade from 14.04LTS to 16.04LTS with Metacity (not Unity) and my choices of 1024x768 resolution and no animation are not saved, after a reboot it defaults back to 1449x900 with toolbar selections being animated. I've a GTX640 graphics card on a desktop PC, Gnome Flashback and Metacity.

Changing the resolution in System Tools>System Settings>Screen Display it is not permanently saved neither if I use gnome-tweak-tool to change the resolution and select no animation.

I can change the resolution in NVIDIA X Server Settings but asks where the setting should be saved which I don't know.

Rather than perhaps adding a custom autostart file, there must surely be a simpler way.

Edit: etc/X11/xorg.conf has resolution as 1024x768 but this doesn't stop it defaulting back to 1449x900 after a reboot.

---

### Post by Handssolow on 2016-08-08
No results but I've been working on this for a couple of hours or so. There's another Forum recent post which suggests a similar issue with the inability to save resolution settings in Ubuntu 16.04LTS.

The xrandr configuration GUI package ARandR  didn't help, neither did reinstalling dconf packages or adding the package gconf-tools.

I'm not sure why xorg.conf was changed in Ubuntu, I knew where it was and how to modify it. Now a search of the web yields results which are often out of date. Where is your chosen monitor resolution settings being saved in Ubuntu 16.04? ..and no animations. This is with Ubuntu 16.04 Metacity or Compiz, never ever Unity.

---

### Post by Handssolow on 2016-08-09
After a few more hours on this, it's looking like that there is a default configuration file which runs after System Tools>System Settings>Screen Display, dconf or tweak tool, such that any changes these ways make to resolution or animation return to the default settings after a reboot.

I've made no progress having an .xprofile file in home, though the xrandr command inside is effective in the terminal in temporarily changing to my choice of resolution.

NVIDIA Xserver settings Ap is also ineffective, and without the normal Xorg-server I’m now not surprised.

At login for a change I chose Unity and installed Unity-Tweak-Tool but that didn't help achieving control over the resolution. Returning to Metacity I had to un-install it as it conflicted with Gnome-Tweak-Tool' 

Unfortunately here what support there is available on the web has become outdated in its applicability to Ubuntu 16.04LTS.

---

### Post by a-duncan on 2016-08-20
I have the same problem with ubuntu 16.04LTS

---

### Post by lsutiger on 2017-01-04
Any resolution to this problem? It's 2017 and I am having the same issue.

---

