---
title: "8.04 - Hibernate wont resume"
date: 2008-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PintoZ on 2008-05-04
Hi people, I have ubuntu 8.04 installed on my laptop, at the beginning hibernate used to don't work, it seemed like i had not a swap partition working, then i changed the fstab setting my swap partition as /dev/sda5 as it should be, since before it was setted by UID and it used to change continuously :S

Now hibernate seems to work, I mean, it does hibernate, but when i power on the computer... it does not resume the hibernated situation, it just boots the computer like if I just restarted the machine.

Anyone does have any idea to fix my problem? thank you guys ;)

---

### Post by PintoZ on 2008-05-07
No one does have any idea to help me?

---

### Post by PintoZ on 2008-05-08
I still have this problem and I can't find a way to solve it :S

---

### Post by petex on 2008-05-11
I have the same issue just that my ubuntu won't even hibernate it quits after pressing hibernate and than nothing happends

---

### Post by Elfantin on 2008-06-12
Hi PintoZ,
I had pretty much the same problem (i.e. it would hibernate but not thaw).
In my case, the problem was that I had recreated the swap (with mkswap). The point is that to resume, ubuntu needs to know where the resume data were saved. This info is in the initramfs and reference is often made to the UUID of the partition rather than the device (e.g. /dev/sda3), which changes if you remake the swap. So:

 1. identify the initramfs that you are currently using. You can look at /boot/grub/menu.lst. The line 
```
default 0
``` says which option is booted by default. The corresponding initrd option specifies the image file, e.g. ```
initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-17-generic
```

 2. copy that image to /tmp and extract it:

```
mkdir /tmp/initramfs
cp /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-17-generic /tmp/initramfs/image.gz
gunzip -c -9 /tmp/initramfs/image.gz | cpio -i -d -H newc --no-absolute-filenames
```

now look at the file /tmp/initramfs/conf/conf.d/resume. It will be something like:```

RESUME=UUID=11e49f41-85e5-4889-873e-efc1be92f07d
```

 3. You could change this UUID to match that of your swap partition and remake the initrd file or, more easily, just remake the swap so that it has the UUID you found:

```
swapoff -a
mkswap -U 11e49f41-85e5-4889-873e-efc1be92f07d /dev/sda3
swapon -a
```

**Naturally, you will have to change all the specifics (UUID, /dev/sda3 , initrdxxx) to match your configuration. You may also need root privileges for some commands.**

Hope it helps.

Actually, you mentioned your swap's UUID changes continuously (?). In that case, maybe you can remake the initramfs with a  */tmp/initramfs/conf/conf.d/resume* file that looks like this: RESUME=/dev/sda3

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-06-12
This may not be your particular problem but, swap space needs to be the size of RAM or more for hibernate to work.

---

### Post by mythmon on 2008-08-27
Elfantin: Thanks for the guide, this was exactly my problem with hibernate. Your guide was fairly easy to follow, except I was confused at one point. If you don't cd into /tmp/initramfs before you extract the image, it will extract everything into where ever you happen to be (the home folder in my case). So your next step doesn't work. Simple thing, but confusing for a new user.

Also, one problem I have with guides in general is that they give you big commands like your extract line, without explaining whats going on, or what the options do, or anything.

Anyways, thanks for the awesome help. Now hibernate works on my laptop. :D

---

### Post by fogelfink on 2008-08-28
Hi there,
I had a problem with hibernate and suspend - followed the guide and it worked!!!
so far so good, but now I have for the first time experienced that my laptop shuts down due to overheating!!
Rebooted and now the CPU temperature is at 75C - not healthy.
Could that have anything to do with changing settings I did using this guide?
The one thing I did not see in my stup is a UUID number in my  /tmp/initramfs/conf/conf.d/resume  file.  So I set my swap to dev/sda5 , which my /boot/grub/menu.lst said.
Any ideas - and just in case how could I reverse the changes I made with this guide?

---

### Post by mssever on 2008-08-28
> **Elfantin said:**
> now look at the file /tmp/initramfs/conf/conf.d/resume.That file doesn't exist on my system. Perhaps it's because I didn't create a swap partition when I installed (I have 3GB of RAM, so the only reason to have swap is for hibernation, and I didn't realize I needed swap for that). How do I add that file to my initrd?

---

### Post by AbdRahim on 2008-08-28
I also have the same problem. Nothing in my initrd folder at all.

---

### Post by gldblade on 2008-08-29
I recently resized my swap partition and now I'm having this problem where resume doesn't work properly.  I looked at the 'resume' file in initrd and it does in fact point to the wrong UUID.

Unfortunately, the swapoff/mkswap/swapon commands haven't fixed this problem.  The 'resume' file still points to the wrong UUID.  Is there anything I can do to fix this?  You mentioned remaking initramfs with a corrected 'resume' file, but I have no idea how to remake initramfs.

Thanks in advance for any help!
Ceryen

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-08-29
What does /ets/fstab say? If it's correct, try a reboot.

---

### Post by mssever on 2008-08-29
> **gldblade said:**
> Unfortunately, the swapoff/mkswap/swapon commands haven't fixed this problem.  The 'resume' file still points to the wrong UUID.
So make your swap partition have the same UUID as the resume file specifies, using the -U option to mkswap, as Elfantin suggested above.

---

### Post by frumple on 2008-10-21
Elfantin,

Really nice guide! It completely solved my ibernation issue, after I've got rid of Windows partition and rebuilded the linux ones. 

Thanks a lot!

Eduardo

---

### Post by ngsupb on 2009-04-26
Elfantin, thanks a LOT, it was very helpfull. It rocks now

---

### Post by aouie on 2009-05-03
Anyone changing swap partitions is likely to run into this issue (if they use hibernate). Changing the UUID on the swap partition solved my problem with waking up / resuming from hibernation.
Sincerely,
Aouie

---

### Post by ironfist1916 on 2012-04-26
Elefantin, thanks a lot for your hints! still works (and needed nowadays... ;) )

allow me a few annotations - AND: I'd propose a more elegant way (see the end of the post)

> **Elfantin said:**
> 
 1. identify the initramfs that you are currently using. You can look at /boot/grub/menu.lst. The line 
```
default 0
``` says which option is booted by default. The corresponding initrd option specifies the image file, e.g. ```
initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-17-generic
```

But, if you've got grub2, you'll find your initramfs here:
```
grep initrd /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

> **Elfantin said:**
> 
 2. copy that image to /tmp and extract it:
```
mkdir /tmp/initramfs
cp /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-17-generic /tmp/initramfs/image.gz
gunzip -c -9 /tmp/initramfs/image.gz | cpio -i -d -H newc --no-absolute-filenames
```


don't forget to change your working dir...
```
mkdir /tmp/initramfs
[COLOR="Red"]cd /tmp/initramfs[/COLOR]
cp /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-17-generic /tmp/initramfs/image.gz
gunzip -c -9 /tmp/initramfs/image.gz | cpio -i -d -H newc --no-absolute-filenames
```

> **Elfantin said:**
> 
now look at the file /tmp/initramfs/conf/conf.d/resume. It will be something like:```

RESUME=UUID=11e49f41-85e5-4889-873e-efc1be92f07d
```

 3. You could change this UUID to match that of your swap partition and remake the initrd file or, more easily, just remake the swap so that it has the UUID you found:

```
swapoff -a
mkswap -U 11e49f41-85e5-4889-873e-efc1be92f07d /dev/sda3
swapon -a
```

works if you 

```
sudo swapoff -a
sudo mkswap -U 11e49f41-85e5-4889-873e-efc1be92f07d /dev/sda3
sudo swapon -a
```


BUT - it's not necessary, nor would I recommend changing the uuid of your swap (could even be, that the uuid actually exists, if one just reformated a former swap to another fs??)

**I'd prefer:**
[LIST=1]
[*]determine the uuid of your swap
[*]update your config
[*]rebuild your boot image
[/LIST]

1. determine the uuid of your swap
```
:~$ sudo blkid
```
will result in something like:
```
[I]/dev/sda1: UUID="34c60435-3487-410b-a96a-b0bae0ad2e0c" TYPE="ext2" 
/dev/sda3: UUID="e98f1198-2fa2-4325-aae9-e09736805b03" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda6: LABEL="hibernate" **UUID="dd4133db-3cfe-440c-9f30-475edf872881" TYPE="swap"** 
/dev/sda8: LABEL="clear" UUID="7583C4533A0CBF13" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/mapper/truecrypt1: UUID="11E48B00763C9C2F" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/mapper/truecrypt2: UUID="8E9E05799E055B5B" TYPE="ntfs" [/I]

```
2. update your boot config:
```
sudo nano /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume
```
so it looks like: 
```
RESUME=UUID=dd4133db-3cfe-440c-9f30-475edf872881
```
3. rebuild your initramfs:
```
sudo update-initramfs -u
```
you'll see something like:
```
update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-3.0.0-17-generic-pae
```

reboot, enjoy... ;)

---

