---
title: "8.04 Wubi with 7.10 already installed - is that possible ?"
date: 2008-01-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by flamelab on 2008-01-26
&#919;&#959;w can I install the latest wubi (8.04) for testing purposes without having to uninstall the current one (7.10 )?

If I can't , what can I do to back up (I know that I can back up home.disk for sure ) my settings ? How can I make a list of my installed programs ?

---

### Post by ago on 2008-01-27
8.04 is not available yet, you will have to wait.The file on the server is a developer preview.

---

### Post by flamelab on 2008-01-27
Even though I would'nt have a problem to choose to install it ...

Anyway , when it will be announced for the public , is my question possible ? Will I have to uninstall Wubi 7.10 first ?

---

### Post by ago on 2008-01-28
1) 
* Copy ubuntu/disks (7.04) to ubuntu/disks.backup
* Boot as usual in 7.04 and do a dist upgrade procedure (see guides on upgrading)

2) 
* Move ubuntu/disks (7.04) to ubuntu.7.704.disks
* Uninstall 7.04
* Install 8.04
* Move back ubuntu.7.704.disks to ubuntu/disks.7.04
* Edit ubuntu/disks/boot/grub/menu.lst to point to (configfile command) menu.lst in disks.7.04

---

### Post by XIUgraag on 2008-01-30
I tried to upgrade to 8.04 but it failed :P Hard time.
I saved my whole disks folder before upgrading so I should be able to always restore to that. Then I used "sudo update-manager -d" to upgrade to 8.04.

After it was finally done I rebooted and got an error saying some file wasn't found (Error 15 IIRC).

No problem, boot in Windows, move new disks folder and uninstall Wubi.
Download wubi 8.04 developer preview and install that. When rebooting and installing ubuntu it complains that some OS files can't be deleted and fails. Tried to use my old disks folder but that doesn't work either, still missing file (the command with skip floppy in it).

---

### Post by ago on 2008-01-30
> **XIUgraag said:**
> Download wubi 8.04 developer preview and install that. When rebooting and installing ubuntu it complains that some OS files can't be deleted and fails. Tried to use my old disks folder but that doesn't work either, still missing file (the command with skip floppy in it).

That's a known bug (not wubi specific)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/partman-target/+bug/186711](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/partman-target/+bug/186711)

But should be fixed soon

---

### Post by XIUgraag on 2008-01-30
Thanks for the quick answer, copied my old disks back and installed wubi 7.10 again, everything is working, still got the upgraded disks so might try again some time :)

---

### Post by ago on 2008-01-30
Possibly tonight's ISO build will have a fix for it.

---

