---
title: "7.04 tends to hang while booting."
date: 2007-08-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mookawaka on 2007-08-12
In the recent past I acquired a fancy new desktop computer that looks like a spaceship and is running Ubuntu 7.04 exclusively as the operating system.

Since installing the operating system I have been having the problem upon booting that things get to the splash screen with just a sliver of orange load bar and then does nothing more and dumps into a shell.  This happens about fifty percent of the time and a hard reboot usually then goes without a problem.  I have had no other difficulties while actually running the Feisty Fawn.

When I look at the command line messages with CONTROL+ALT+F1 I see the following message when boot fails:

"Starting up . . .
Loading, please wait
     check root = bootarg cat /proc/cmdline or missing modules, devices: cat /proc/modules ls /dev

ALERT! /dev/disk/byuuid/2c9e96ea-89a5-462d-9449-f7cea6cb3d58 does not exist.
Dropping to a shell!"

After searching through the forums I have seen two possible solutions; one having to do with the GRUB boot file, the motherboard, and APIC settings (adding the line apic=off) OR something that seems to affect Dell users regarding rebooting (reboot=b or something like that.)

I checked the BIOS and my ACPI settings (I am assuming this is the same as APIC) show everything disabled except
-Restore on AC/Power loss

The computer's hardware:
ASRock ALiveNF5-eSATA2 Sockel AM2 motherboard, AMD Athlon 64 X2 EE 4800+, 1024MB DDR2 RAM, Samsung SATA II 250GB Hard drive, NVidia 8600GT 256MB Graphics card, LG DVD burner.

I am unclear as to the best course of action to follow.  Whether to wait around for a kernel update and hope that likes my computer's hardware better,  to muck around in the GRUB boot file, or to tinker with BIOS?

Thank you in advance for any advice, commands that can be cut and pasted are always appreciated.

---

### Post by odiseo77 on 2007-08-12
Hi, I had a similar issue after having installed Feisty on a friend's laptop (it actually hanged every time I tried to boot). What I did to solve the problem was to install Feisty adding 'noapic' at the end of the boot parameters, so maybe you can try adding 'noapic' (without the quotes) at the end of the kernel line of your /boot/grub/menu.lst file to see if it works?

Regards.

---

### Post by Crakie on 2007-08-12
Try adding any combination of the following parameters to Grub's kernel line:

```

acpi=off noapic nolapic pci=biosirq

```

I need to use all four, but it results in an extremely stable system.

---

