---
title: "13.10 any stable simple graphics cards ?"
date: 2014-03-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nosbor73 on 2014-03-07
i've beed having lots of crashes, have to reboot, filed bug reports but nothing fixed as of yet. 
[h=1]nouveau 0000:01:00.0: Failed to idle channel .... E[Xorg][/h]
must be an issue with the nouveau driver and this card. i think i'd rather just get a new graphics card.  i currently have NVIDIA Corporation G96GL [Quadro FX 580].
any good ones and not too costly for ubuntu 13.10 ?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2014-03-07
Why not install the Nvidia driver provided by Ubuntu? If you mist use a free driver, I'd suggest Intel GPUs.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-03-07
nosbor73l My 2 cents:

I am  running an old ATI card, only supported by Open Source drivers, on my 13.10 install. Absolutely no problems, 3d acceleration and all ( no heavy duty gaming done on this work box) with perfect functionality and decent frame rates.

[INDENT]it it works
[INDENT][INDENT]do not fix it
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by nosbor73 on 2014-03-08
thanks. i might try to install the nvidia drivers then first, if that fails then try an ATI.
i can almost reproduce the freeze often just by opening libreoffice, and then drag the mouse to select some text. strange thing is that if i use the keys to select the text it does not crash. surely there is no way a mouse driver can cause this :)

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2014-03-08
if the nvidia driver does not solve it tell us the gpu model

---

### Post by nosbor73 on 2014-03-08
installing the nvidia 304-updates proprietary drivers seem to fix it. i can drag and copy text in libreoffice with no problems. 
thanks.

---

