---
title: "9.10 unrecoverable freeze"
date: 2010-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by the grey side on 2010-01-08
I've been having serious problems with Ubuntu 9.10 64 bit (fs: ext4) for weeks now. I spent a lot of time reading forums and trying various solutions, but for the life of me I can't figure this out. I'll try to be as complete as I can and hope that someone can help me.

My system: Dell XPS M1530 laptop, Intel core 2 duo T9300, 4 GB RAM, Nvidia GF 8600M GT.

The problem: when I upgraded to 9.10 in November (I did a clean install after deleting and recreating partitions) it worked fine for some time. Then I experienced a number of freezes: the system would lock abruptly, the monitor would still be active but frozen in its last displayed screen and any keyboard or mouse input would be useless (mouse cursor motionless, the system LEDs flashed the code for "keyboard error"), any audio would loop. The only solution was a hard shutdown by pressing and holding the power button.
The third time this happened GRUB was apparently damaged and I couldn't recover or reinstall it. Then I formatted and installed windows vista, which didn't give me any problem for weeks. I thought the problem was with my failing hard disk, although vista worked fine.
In late December I replaced the disk (I would have done that anyway), reinstalled, updated, installed the NVIDIA drives, and got more freezes, all identical.
In the past days I have tried several kernels, and a number of settings, and so far this is what I have gathered:

-The system freezes on the 2.6.31-16 and -17 kernels. Back in November it was the -15 kernel if I recall correctly. The -14 kernel might or might not freeze, I can't really tell because the one time I think got a freeze with it I might just have mistakenly selected another kernel on boot.

-Every time I had these freezes, as far as I can tell, some Nvidia driver was installed *and* properly working. I have had no problems with kernel 2.6.32, downloaded from [here]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.32/"), with the 185 drivers. However, some lines in a xorg log (that unfortunately I have not backed up) and the fact that I could not activate visual effects lead me to believe that the drivers were not properly configured or not working at all. The 185 drivers I installed with Ubuntu's utility. For all the other kernels I was running the 190.53 drivers, downloaded from Nvidia's site and installed through te usual procedure (ctrl-alt-F1, login, sudo su, telinit 3, stop gdm, run executable). I could not use these with the .32 kernel, as the installer complained about the C compiler version, an issue I really don't want to look into now (it is my understanding that the kernel was compiled with CC 4.2 and I have CC 4.4 installed, but I could be wrong). Some time ago I also tried the 173 drivers, that gave the same problem with kernel -16.

-A couple of freezes happened at the login screen. Every other freeze happened invariably when I was running Firefox. As far as I can remember, I was also always connected to the Internet at those times, I could be mistaken though. I am not sure whether the problem is with Firefox itself or with the fact that it happens to be -I think- the most demanding application I used.

-Freezes are random, I could use 2.6.31-17 without problems for hours just after installing the Nvidia drivers, and I could shutdown normally, but earlier today I got two freezes soon after booting with the exact same kernel and drivers.

This is unfortunately not the end of the problem, and here things get strange.  I am dual booting 9.10 and Windows 7 32 bit, and I had the exact same issue with windows 7, just after installing the Nvidia drivers and activating the aero interface. I thought I had solved that problem by simply changing the power plan to the high performance one, as suggested somewhere on the internet, but I had another freeze since, although the problem might be less severe now - I haven't done enough testing to know. Again, Firefox was running, together with a game, but I was not connected to the internet.

I do not think it's a hardware problem, I have run a lot of tests for memory and processor (using Dell utilities) and besides I had no problems with 9.04 32 bit (ext3) and (sigh) vista. I do not think it's a 64 bit or ext4 problem, because I have the same problem with a 32 bit OS with NTFS. Moreover, while I was using vista I ran for extended periods of time several games that should have pushed my hardware configuration to its limits, without any problem, so I am quite sure that my GPU isn't failing.

Other people with similar problems, in threads that I have browsed fruitlessly for solutions, do not have Nvidia GPUs. One of the proposed solutions is actually reverting to earlier Intel graphics drivers. Here are a couple of these threads:

[http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298269](http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298269)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1331607](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1331607)

In the second thread, running a browser seems to cause problems to many. Anyway, I haven't posted in any of those because I'm not really sure whether I'm having the exact same problem or not.

Right now I am running kernel .32, with no graphic drivers besides whatever Ubuntu uses as default (I have restored a xorg.conf backup). The system seems stable. As long as I can use latex and run gnuplot I won't reinstall 9.04, but I'm unable to use anything that requires the Nvidia drivers (not even gnometris...) and I'd really like a long term solution that isn't using 9.04 and vista for the rest of my laptop's life.

Is there anyone who understands this problem and/or knows of a solution? Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by iceman600 on 2010-01-08
your not alone.... im having the exact same problem. 
i cant use my ubuntu desktop for now. so im stuck wit windows... 
i hope the will be a fast fix for this....

---

### Post by the grey side on 2010-01-09
So this happens to desktops as well... do you have Nvidia drivers installed and/or Firefox?
Speaking of Firefox, they just released an update with a fix for a "a common stability issue". Not that I have high hopes for this, but I'm going to test this a little.
Another detail I think I should mention: when I get a freeze and hard shutdown occasionally parts of my OS seem damaged. I mentioned the time GRUB stopped working, I also had problems with wicd. After the nth freeze, on the following reboot it asked for my password (to "access the network cards" or something similar) after login but before showing the desktop. It then displayed an error message, something like the daemon not starting, and wouldn't work. Reinstalling it fixed the problem.

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2010-01-09
Install the latest (195.30) drivers from Nvidia's site.

Also, installing the drivers under the .32 kernel can be done, just install gcc 4.2 and soft link it to /usr/bin/gcc.

sudo ln -s /usr/bin/gcc-4.2 /usr/bin/gcc

reverting is linking back the 4.4:

sudo ln -s /usr/bin/gcc-4.4 /usr/bin/gcc 

I did it on a Dell D630/Nvidia Quadro NVS 135M and worked fine (driver installed amd worked fine), but i had a problem with bluetooth on/off with rfkill (which works fine with .31 kernels) so i ditched that kernel.

PS: Use the 32-bit version, you dont lose anything, and have a more stable system. I use 32-bit in all my systems (core2duo, Athlon) and i have no compatibility/stability/speed issues. 64-bit in reality doesnt really speed up anything relevant (maybe some very specific applications but nothing relevant to desktop usage or games).

Some info here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=502754](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=502754)

---

### Post by the grey side on 2010-01-09
Thanks for the suggestion. Unfortunately the 195.30 drivers didn't help. It's really strange, I:
-installed the drivers on kernel 2.6.31-17, then rebooted;
-used Firefox and other applications without problems for over an hour, then rebooted again;
-again used Firefox for over an hour, still without probliems, then shut down the laptop.
But then, when I started the third time, I got a freeze within 5 minutes. Again, Firefox was open, but not connected to the internet, and it was only trying to load the home page, whereas when I was using it earlier I could open ten pages together or watch videos without problems.

I also ran Memtest86+ from GRUB for two passes, to test the RAM, but it reported no errors. I still believe my hardware is all right, although there might be an obscure incompatibility somewhere.

I have once again restored the original xorg.conf and I am trying kernel 2.6.31-17 without the Nvidia drivers.
I really don't know what to do. I'll install 32 bit next time, but I don't want to reinstall Ubuntu now, I have only recently spent hours to install everything I need.

Any more ideas? Thanks.

---

### Post by the grey side on 2010-01-09
I did some more research and found this:

[http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1369313](http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1369313)

It is not the problem I'm having, but it struck me that acpi might be responsible for my problem. Would it be safe to just edit  /etc/default/grub with the line

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="acpi=off"
```as explained in that thread, just to check if acpi is really responsible for the problem? Or is it dangerous for the computer?

---

### Post by the grey side on 2010-01-10
Ok, I've had the weirdest freeze yet... *on shut down*. It happened when the screen was already blank, which usually means a few instants before power off. Kernel 2.6.31-17, no Nvidia drivers activated. My guess: the drivers and using Firefox are not directly responsible for the problem, but make it more severe. At this point only kernel .32 has never had problems, but it seems at least possible that eventually it will.
About my earlier question about acpi, to be clearer: I want to run my laptop with acpi disabled, via the method described above, until I get another freeze (meaning that acpi wasn't responsible) or forever, if it turns out that acpi is indeed the culprit. I'd like to know what kind of functionality will my laptop lose, and whether or not this  is a danger to the system. Thanks.

---

### Post by the grey side on 2010-01-17
Well, I've been using [kernel 2.6.32.3]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.32.3/") with the 195.30 Nvidia beta drivers for some days now, without freezes, so my problem may be solved (or greatly reduced at least). I will wait a couple of weeks, then mark this thread as solved if I don't have other freezes, but in the meantime, if your hardware is similar to mine and you have the same problem, you can try the above kernel and drivers and see if they work for you. Earlier kernels may also work: [kernel 2.6.32]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.32/") -- without Nvidia drivers -- always worked fine for me.

---

### Post by chaosmosis on 2010-01-27
I'm in a very similar situation.  Building a new computer for my wife with the AT3N7A-I Intel Atom 330 CPU nVidia ION mini ITX motherboard.

Recently built and installed 9.10 on another machine w/no problems.  So I have been through several days of the second guessing, suspecting and testing the hardware.  Then started researching and came across the threads you mention, and now here.  Mainly glad to know I am not insane and others experiencing this extremely annoying issue, though I have to say it is lowering my expectations of Ubuntu. 

Strangely, I could not even get 9.10(32 or 64) to install fully with the alternate CD; it would randomly hang at some point in the installation; keyboard and moused locked.  So I backtracked to 9.04(32) yesterday and was able to get through a full install and now the random hangs after anywhere between 30 seconds to 5 minutes.  I can't get it to be stable long enough to even try to experiment with settings.

When you say you are running kernel .32, how did you do this?

Thanks

---

### Post by the grey side on 2010-01-28
For anyone that needs it, I posted a couple of instructions on how to upgrade to newer kernels here:

[http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8708228&postcount=38](http://ubuntu-ky.ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8708228&postcount=38)

Thanks to all those that mentioned a later kernel as a possible solution in other threads, and to gradinaruvasile for telling me how to relink gcc to install the nvidia drivers. I had to use -fs as the option, but then it worked perfectly.

---

### Post by the grey side on 2010-01-30
No more freezes in two weeks after upgrading the kernel to 2.6.32.3 (see above). Marked the thread as "solved".   I hope this works for other people as well.

---

