---
title: "[SOLVED] nvidia 8800 GS driver trouble"
date: 2008-08-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stoneage on 2008-08-14
Just tried to install a Gainward 8800GS graphics card and it went badly.
I used Envy to install drivers and the resolution is now stuck on 800 x 600.
Also the keyboard is affected, keys don't respond to what they should be £
is now # etc. Couldn't log in because I was typing the wrong(apparent) password.

I keep getting this under nvidia x server settings[ATTACH]81583[/ATTACH] 
but when I run it I get this [ATTACH]81584[/ATTACH] I also seem to be having trouble enabling the driver. I enable the latest downloaded driver, restart and the driver is not enabled. If I want to use an older driver how would I go about that?

Lost, need help. Can someone advise what to configure?

Ubuntu 8.04 64 bit

chris.

I'm looking at xorg.conf but I don't know what to alter
Preferred resolution is 1440 x 900
Needless to say the problem persists even with the card removed.

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2008-08-14
Happened to me a couple times. Just reinstall again with envyng. That fixed my issue. If it does not someone should drop in and give you the command (that I forgot) to reconfigure xserver.

---

### Post by stoneage on 2008-08-14
Thanks, that's reassuring.

Is it dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg ?

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2008-08-14
No, not specifically but it could work. I tried that one once and it did more harm than good (because it had me manually input EVERYTHING). There is another command that is more automated.

---

### Post by stoneage on 2008-08-14
I'll google for another then.

Thanks

---

### Post by stoneage on 2008-08-14
How about:-

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-08-14
You can try that command. That will or should back up your current xorg.conf and create a new one. Also try "sudo nvidia-xconfig" and take a look at the changes to 8.04 xorg [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Video").

There have been other threads on rez issues with 8 & 9 series nvidia cards. 
Search the multimedia & video section for those.

---

### Post by stoneage on 2008-08-14
Thanks, reading now. sudo nvidia-xconfig doesn't help.

organic@organic-desktop:~$ sudo nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

The card is detected:-

organic@organic-desktop:~$ lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation GeForce 8800 GS (rev a2)
organic@organic-desktop:~$

---

### Post by stoneage on 2008-08-14
Am I right in thinking xorg is using the wrong driver?

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BoardName      "vesa"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Here is the complete xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Feb 14 18:13:41 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
    VendorName     "Plug 'n' Play"
    ModelName      "Plug 'n' Play"
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BoardName      "vesa"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     640 480
        Depth       24
        Modes      "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by stoneage on 2008-08-14
I'm making some progress with a manual installation of the driver, the problem seems to have been using envyng overwrites xorg.conf

Still not fully sorted though.

How do I reconfigure my keyboard? Could someone post the xorg.conf section for a generic 105 key British keyboard.

---

### Post by stoneage on 2008-08-14
OK, I fixed it I hope. Removed the envy installed driver, used 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg' to get a more usable screen, and manually altered xorg.conf.

Manually installed nvidia-glx-new, reconfigured the keyboard and monitor resolution.

It seems to be working.

Thanks.

---

