---
title: "8.10 hangs on startup (hp6809wm)"
date: 2009-03-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PhoHammer on 2009-03-01
My ubuntu installation is running great aside from one obstacle: it will not boot up without me holding its hand.

When I turn on my machine, it gets all the way to the screen where it shows ubuntu in large letters with the little orange ping pong progress bar going back and forth.

The bad part is that the bar stops about halfway across on its first time going to the right and sits indefinitely.
The only way I have found to jumpstart it is by pressing a key (any key) and it will move again. I have to hold down a key to keep it moving and to get it to finish booting up. 

It also does this upon shutting down, but sporadically (sometimes it will hang sometimes it won't) 

I've googled and searched the forums here, but haven't really found a similar problem with the stable 8.10.
oh and my machine:
CPU Type AMD Turion 64 X2 TL-60 2.0G
Screen 15.4" WXGA
Memory Size 3GB DDR2
Hard Disk 120GB
Optical Drive DVD Super Multi
Graphics Card NVIDIA GeForce 7150M
Video Memory shared memory
Communication Modem, LAN and WLAN
Wireless Atheros AR5009 802.11 a/b/g

---

### Post by Ripose on 2009-03-02
Actually this issue has been addressed many times, but I agree...It's not always very easy to find what you want.

In BIOS disable "Memory Hole Remapping"

in */boot/grub/menu.lst* add **nohpet** to the kernel line.

EG In a terminal:
```
sudo nano /boot/grub/menu.lst
```sroll down to the kernel line that looks like this:
```
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=9d5... ro quiet splash
```change it so it looks like this:
```
kernel        /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.27-7-generic root=UUID=9d5... ro  nohpet slowusb quiet splash
```Push [CTRL] O to wtite Out the changes
Push [ENTER] to save the file with the same name
Push [CTRL] X to exit

Note: **slowusb** is there to suppress false USB error messages

---

### Post by PhoHammer on 2009-03-02
> **Ripose said:**
> 
In BIOS disable "Memory Hole Remapping"


I edited /boot/grub/menu.lst according to your directions, but I cannot find the memory hole remapping in my BIOS. Is this always an option?

---

### Post by Ripose on 2009-03-03
> cannot find the memory hole remapping in my BIOS. Is this always an option?My apologies, I should have said that mine is an ASUS M3N-HT Bios.

It may not be there, depending on your BIOS or it might be called something else.
Called: Memory Hole Remapping in ASUS BIOS
Check your Motherboard/BIOS websites.

Did the **nohpet** work? Or is your progress bar still hanging?

---

### Post by jpmck03 on 2009-03-03
Well, I've had the same problem with my compaq f700.  (And let me tell you, that's a hard things to google.)

Same thing with the orange ping pong progress bar stopping.  I've been using the Shift key to jump start mine as well, but any key works.

I tried the **nohpet** trick and no dice.  The "ping pong" moves slightly further to the right and then stops.  As with **PhoHammer** I don't have a BIOS option for the "Memory Hole Remapping."

Any other suggestions?

---

### Post by PhoHammer on 2009-03-03
the nophet edit didn't fix mine, either. It still hangs...

---

### Post by Ripose on 2009-03-03
I've been scanning my notes and found this: **iommu=memaper** This is from AMD to try in your kernel line. Leave the **nohpet** in there too.

I switched to [SIZE=4][COLOR=SeaGreen]gOS[/COLOR][/SIZE], so I don't have this problem anymore so please be patient as I try to remember exactly what I did in Ubuntu to fix this.

---

### Post by jpmck03 on 2009-03-04
**Bingo!**  That did it for me!  Thanks, **Ripose**!  :D

Hopefully it works out for **PhoHammer** too.

Just out of curiousity, what all does that do?

---

### Post by PhoHammer on 2009-03-05
Fixed!

Turns out I accidentally edited an older kernel line (2.26.7 I think) with the **nophet**.

I added **iommu=memaper** and **nophet** and it booted up perfectly (albeit a bit slow, but we're not doing any instant-on linux here;)).
Not sure which variable fixed it as I came at it with both guns blazing...

Thanks, Ripose!

Edit: How do I mark this beast as solved? I don't see it in the thread tools...

---

### Post by Ripose on 2009-03-05
iommu = Input Output Memory Management Unit

Linux looks for a "Memory Hole" (which is standard) but AMD 64 multicores remap the memory hole by default, causing the Linux memory manger to "stick" because it can't find the hole where it is expected.

memaper = Memory Aperture tells Linux that the Hole has been remapped. So if watch carefully you will probably see a quick message about "Aperture beyond 4 GB ignoring"

hpet - High Performance Timer designed for Windows Media Player so it does not work well with some Linux stuff. nohpet just turns it off.

You can change both these settings in BIOS but for some reason it does not seem to work.

BTW The "Mark Post As Solved" has been removed for some reason.

:)

---

