---
title: "AMULE 2.0.0 on Kubuntu"
date: 2005-06-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dada on 2005-06-03
Hi,

 I have Kubuntu running on a Toshiba M35 centrino laptop. I am really impressed with it.  I had some initial problems but its all turned out well.  I really love this distr, the philosophy and the community behind it. I really have to say a deep thank you to the guys - oops- people at K/Ubuntu development. 

Now - to a problem that I am having..... this may have been answered, and I am not sure if this is the place to ask this, but I don't know where to look. I am trying to install Amule 2.0.0. I had the Amule 1.2.6 working and i used Snaptic to remove and tried to install Amule 2.0.0  and this is what it comes back with -   

Depends: libc6 (>=2.3.2.ds1-21) but 2.3.2.ds1-20ubuntu13 is to be installed
  Depends: libwxbase2.4 (>=2.4.2.6.1) but 2.4.2.6ubuntu1 is to be installed
  Depends: libwxgtk2.4 (>=2.4.2.6.1) but 2.4.2.6ubuntu1 is to be installed 

..... and it does not install.

Can anyone help?

Thanks,

Dada


 :? The waves of thought generated by that first human expression vibrate even to this day in the unconscious mind of every human being.  Everyone of us carries within him the hidden memory of that first sunrise, and even beyond it into the darkness of antiquity.  We are, by means of this primordial memory, which is part of our human heritage, intimately connected to all forms of life

ONE HUMAN SOCIETY -  Shrii Shrii Anandamurtii

---

### Post by psychicdragon on 2005-06-03
Check out [this thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32653&page=1&pp=10) as it contains some amule 2 packages built for hoary.

Or, here's the relevant part:
[QUOTE=ow50]It's a gtk1 vs gtk2 thing. aMule debian packages are gtk1, because they can't compile with gtk2 on powerpc.

If you're using i386, you can try my packages:
[amule_2.0.1-1_i386.deb](http://koti.mbnet.fi/ots/linux/hoary/amule_2.0.1-1_i386.deb)
[amule-utils_2.0.1-1_i386.deb](http://koti.mbnet.fi/ots/linux/hoary/amule-utils_2.0.1-1_i386.deb)

It's built for hoary from debian unstable sources altering it to gtk2.[/QUOTE]
What packages were you trying to install? ones on the amule site?

---

### Post by cutOff on 2005-06-03
Add these lines to your sources.list

```
##Backports
deb http://ubuntu-backports.mirrormax.net/ hoary-extras main universe multiverse restricted
deb http://ubuntu-backports.mirrormax.net/ hoary-backports main universe multiverse restricted
``` 
and 

$ sudo aptitude update
$ sudo aptitude install amule

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by dada on 2005-06-03
Thank you, I have Amule working. First I tried Cutoff's suggestion and added the backport sources to the source list and followed the instr. but came up with the same problem.

Then I downloaded Psychicdragon's  packages and initially it gave me some umet dependencies  - libreadline5 etc. so I used snaptic to install them and then  wallah! it installed.

Actually when I went to Amule site i did not find a debian package. So I started snaptic and it showed version 2.0.0 was available - i guess from  sources in the sourcelist. Then I tried to install the 2.0.0 via snaptic and ran into probs.


One question -  I installed Amule utils as well. But what does it do?


warm regards ( even though it is winter down here) :-)

Dada    

"When the whole property of the universe belongs to all the beings in it, how then can there be justification for a system where one child is born wih a silver spoon in it's mouth and another dies, but for a handful of grains."

P.R.Sarkar

---

