---
title: "10.04: login screen without user names displayed?"
date: 2011-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t0p on 2011-05-04
I'm using Ubuntu 10.04.  When I get to the login screen, I am given a choice of the usernames available on the computer.

What I want is a simple username field to fill in, so other users of this computer won't know what user name accounts on the machine.  Unfortunately, the only other option I can  see is for automatic login - the last thing I want!

In the past, when I logged into Ubuntu the username foield was left blank.  How can I achieve the same in 10.04?

Cheers.

---

### Post by edm1 on 2011-05-04
Not sure about 10.04 but 11.04 has a checkbox named 'Show List of Users'.

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2011-05-04
You can disable the user list by changing the value of the /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/disable_user_list gconf key (as user gdm) to true.

```
sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --type bool --set /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/disable_user_list "true"
```

To re-enable it, run:
```
sudo -u gdm gconftool-2 --type bool --set /apps/gdm/simple-greeter/disable_user_list "false"
```

---

### Post by t0p on 2011-05-04
**sisco311:**  Thanks a lot!  That was just what I wanted!

**edm1:**I appreciate the attempt to help me, but what you suggested was the exact opposite to what I wanted.  As things were, a stranger could come across my computer and, without any knowledge about me whatsoever, could go to the login page and immediately know what my user name is.  That is not a particularly secure way to do things is it?

Maybe it's just me: but it seems that with every release of Ubuntu, more and more security is being dropped, presumably to cater for the whims of the (oh goddess do I dare say it?) lowest common denominator.  Sure, lots of people couldn't give a frack about security, but other users (especially those with prior experience of *nix Oses and/or the very real dangers posed by inadequate security) are being forced to jump through hoops to make their boxes at least as secure as they were 5 years ago.  Security is supposed to increase with an OS's age, not revert to some kind of Fisher-Price XP all-you-can-eat treat for crackers etc.  Default settings used to err on the side of caution: now if you want to make your box secure you have to mess about with settings that shouldn't have been changed in the first place.

---

