---
title: "8.10 very unstable - segfaults and kernel panics"
date: 2008-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alatopi on 2008-11-27
I've been using Ubuntu on my desktop-machine now for a year and a half, without any major problems. The system stayed up for weeks and was only rebooted for a quick windows-gaming or the like.

But after I upgraded to Ubuntu 8.10 the system has become very unstable:

Programs like Rythmbox or Amarok crash within hour if I leave them to play by themselves. Firefox crashes even more often and if I leave Transmission up for the night it won't still be running in the morning.

Worst of all I've been introduced to the captivating phenomenon of kernel panic (keyboard and mouse locked, caps lock & scroll lock flashing). This happens almost daily without any readily apparent reason. It might be when the system is alone, downloading torrents, or when I'm surfing the web and try to minimize a window or in some other situation.

I don't think the problems are hardware related as the Windows XP installation on the same machine is still working fine.

Needless to say I would like to get these problems fixed somehow, without resorting to complete reinstall.

Some information:
motherboard: Abit AV8
cpu: Athlon 64 3800+ "Venice"
gpu:  ATI Radeon HD 3650 AGP (fglrx driver)
RAM: 2 GB
OS: Ubuntu 8.10, kernel 2.6.27-10-generic (32 bit)

I'd be happy to provide additional information but I'm not sure what is relevant for this. 

I managed to capture the end of the text console log of one kernel panic: 
(the machine was then running the 2.6.27-8 kernel, but updating to 2.6.27-10 hasn't made any observable change to the stability)
```

[29476.507062]  [<c0316e7d>] ? ip_local_deliver_finish+0xad/0x1a0
[29476.507082]  [<c0316fff>] ? ip_local_deliver+0x8f/0xa0
[29476.507101]  [<c0316dd0>] ? ip_local_deliver_finish+0x0/0x1a0
[29476.507120]  [<c03167d6>] ? ip_rcv_finish+0x156/0x340
[29476.507138]  [<c03105bf>] ? nf_hook_slow+0x9f/0xe0
[29476.507157]  [<c0316680>] ? ip_rcv_finish+0x0/0x340
[29476.507176]  [<c0316bf7>] ? ip_rcv+0x237/0x280
[29476.507193]  [<c0316680>] ? ip_rcv_finish+0x0/0x340
[29476.507211]  [<c02f4bec>] ? netif_receive_skb+0x25c/0x530
[29476.507231]  [<c02f4f33>] ? process_backlog+0x73/0xe0
[29476.507251]  [<c02f4855>] ? net_rx_action+0xf5/0x230
[29476.507269]  [<c0137682>] ? __do_softirq+0x92/0x120
[29476.507289]  [<c013776d>] ? do_softirq+0x5d/0x60
[29476.507307]  [<c01378e5>] ? irq_exit+0x55/0x90
[29476.507325]  [<c0106c1a>] ? do_IRQ+0x4a/0x80
[29476.507344]  [<c0105003>] ? common_interrupt+0x23/0x30
[29476.507364]  [<c011aba5>] ? native_safe_halt+0x5/0x10
[29476.507384]  [<c010aaed>] ? default_idle+0x5d/0x60
[29476.507404]  [<c010288d>] ? cpu_idle+0x7d/0x140
[29476.507422]  [<c036ee03>] ? rest_init+0x53/0x60
[29476.507443]  =======================
[29476.507454] Code:  Bad EIP value.
[29476.507469] EIP: [<b8137920>] 0xb8137920 SS:ESP 0068:c04a7c68
[29476.507781] Kernel panic - not syncing: Fatal exception in interrupt

```

I'll attach here some logs of the same time. The kernel panic in question happened sometime after Nov 22 04:30

I would be most grateful for any help!

---

### Post by Tilex on 2008-12-03
I totally understand what you're going through.

I'm wondering why an update makes a system more unstable; in proprietary software I could understand (they *have* to launch a new version for $$), but for open source I'm suprised and a little disappointed (my home-business PC has been unusable for tens of hours in the last weeks...if only I'd known...).

---

### Post by adpierce on 2008-12-09
I have the exact same thing going on after upgrading from heron to intrepid. Except I can't even get through a boot without a kernel panic. I've got to use an older kernel from the heron days. I'll get back to this thread if I figure something out.

So far I've tried making sure the kernel headers were installed. I also disabled my onboard NIC because that seems to be one of the most prevalent work arounds for this problem.

---

### Post by Tilex on 2008-12-09
> 
So far I've tried making sure the kernel headers were installed. I also disabled my onboard NIC because that seems to be one of the most prevalent work arounds for this problem.

What I don't get is that you have to go through all this to have your system up and running.  Are you tweaking your system heavily or is this installation just being totally ridiculous?

I mean, I don't even know what a kernel header is, so fortunately I never ran into that kind of problems!

---

### Post by soren_sibu on 2008-12-09
Hi, I am a new user of ubuntu. I have downloaded and burnt the ISO image of Ubuntu 8.10. While trying to install it into D drive of my HDD (after running it form liveCD), which already has XP installed in c drive, the installation process fails after the 4th step where the installer of ubuntu is launched, but it is not showing any of my partitions. What to do? Plz help.

---

### Post by Tilex on 2008-12-09
> Hi, I am a new user of ubuntu. I have downloaded and burnt the ISO image of Ubuntu 8.10. While trying to install it into D drive of my HDD (after running it form liveCD), which already has XP installed in c drive, the installation process fails after the 4th step where the installer of ubuntu is launched, but it is not showing any of my partitions. What to do? Plz help.

Hi there,

I think it fails because you must erase the data on the partition first.  Maybe.
Any way, you'll be more successful at getting an anser to your question if you start a thread of your own with a good description as a title.

---

