---
title: "18.04 Can't update because of error &quot;public key is not available&quot;"
date: 2020-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by trent65 on 2020-04-22
Hello all. I'm having an issue running sudo apt-get update. When I run it I get the following errors:

```
E: The repository 'http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/strycore/xUbuntu_18.04 ./ Release' no longer has a Release file.
N: Updating from such a repository can't be done securely, and is therefore disabled by default.
N: See apt-secure(8) manpage for repository creation and user configuration details.
W: An error occurred during the signature verification. The repository is not updated and the previous index files will be used. GPG error: [https://dl.winehq.org/wine-builds/ubuntu](https://dl.winehq.org/wine-builds/ubuntu) bionic InRelease: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 76F1A20FF987672F
```

I searched around for a while and found this [thread]("https://github.com/lutris/lutris/issues/1005") and followed some suggestions there. I ran:

```
[COLOR=#6A737D][FONT=SFMono-Regular]wget -q http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/strycore/xUbuntu_$ver/Release.key -O- | sudo apt-key add -[/FONT][/COLOR]
```

and got:
```
gpg: no valid OpenPGP data found
```

In the thread I posted, a github user named strycore (who is referenced in the download url) showed up and said:
[COLOR=#6A737D][FONT=-apple-system]I'm deleting the OBS repository, it doesn't serve a purpose and confuses people
[/FONT][/COLOR][FONT=-apple-system]
So I navigated to the download page in Chrome and indeed there is no repository there for Ubuntu. [/FONT][COLOR=#6A737D][FONT=-apple-system][/FONT][/COLOR][http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/strycore/](http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/strycore/)

So fine, if it isn't important I can ignore the errors, BUT, my real reason for even going down this rabbit hole is that I'm trying to manage the PPAs for my GPU driver. When I try to purge a PPA that I don't want like this:

```
sudo ppa-purge ppa:oibaf/graphics-drivers
```

I get the same list of errors:

```

Updating packages lists
E: The repository 'http://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/strycore/xUbuntu_18.04 ./ Release' no longer has a Release file.
W: An error occurred during the signature verification. The repository is not updated and the previous index files will be used. GPG error: https://dl.winehq.org/wine-builds/ubuntu bionic InRelease: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 76F1A20FF987672F
Warning:  apt-get update failed for some reason

```

And after I run it, checking in /etc/apt/sources.list.d the ppa I tried to purge is still there. Does anyone know what gives here?

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-04-22
The appropriate action to this:
> **trent65 said:**
> I'm deleting the OBS repository, it doesn't serve a purpose and confuses people

isn't this
> So fine, if it isn't important I can ignore the errors,

it's this
> try to purge a PPA that I don't want

Get rid of the PPA that can't be used - and no longer exists - and then your package manager will be in much better shape to do what you actually want to do.

For the WineHQ message, you'll probably want to read [this](https://wiki.winehq.org/Ubuntu).

---

### Post by trent65 on 2020-04-22
@CatKiller thank you for your reply. I was able to resolve the winehq error. Any idea why ppa-purge won't remove the PPA? If you were in my situation, in which I only get a cryptic unhelpful error:

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]Warning:  apt-get update failed for some reason
[/FONT][/COLOR]
Would you simply delete the PPAs that you want to remove from /etc/apt/sources.list.d

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-04-23
> **trent65 said:**
> @CatKiller thank you for your reply. I was able to resolve the winehq error. Any idea why ppa-purge won't remove the PPA? If you were in my situation, in which I only get a cryptic unhelpful error:

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=&quot]Warning:  apt-get update failed for some reason
[/FONT][/COLOR]
Would you simply delete the PPAs that you want to remove from /etc/apt/sources.list.d

Well, that wasn't the only error message. The package manager has no way of knowing that the repository maintainer thinks that people find their repository confusing and so removed it, but it does know that a file it was expecting to find wasn't there, which it told you. 

ppa-purge doesn't just remove the PPA entries, it also downgrades the packages. I don't know why it didn't work in this case; perhaps it needs some of the Launchpad infrastructure to work. Technically you were using an external repository rather than a PPA.

Yes, you can just remove those entries from /etc/apt/sources.list.d. The packages you installed from that repository you can either remove or downgrade to the versions from the standard repositories, as you prefer.

---

### Post by trent65 on 2020-04-23
Really appreciate your insight. Thank you.

---

