---
title: "12.04 - Everything breaks after software updates"
date: 2012-09-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Chaosenemy on 2012-09-22
This has happened on 2 separate computers for me. Starting from a fresh install of 12.04, I let the system update. When I restart, my graphics driver seems to have broken (800x600 resolution, Unity 2D), I cannot type with the keyboard anymore, my mouse pointer blinks in and out of existence, when I open a terminal it acts as if I'm holding down my enter key on it, and when I click in the notification area my mouse automatically clicks the first menu item I hover over. It's absolutely bizarre, and again, it has happened now on two different computers, identical issues. I have a third computer also that wants to update but I'm afraid to because I don't want to break it!

I've Googled around for the problems I'm having, but it seems unheard of. These were both fairly new, fresh installs, and nothing funky was done to them; most things were still default. Anyone have a clue what's going on here?

Thanks.

EDIT: Alright... now my third Ubuntu install is acting up in a completely different way. I installed Google Chrome and all of a sudden the system slows to a crawl, and the window buttons moved to the right side?? The system seems to speed up after 30 seconds or so... then if I close a window/program, it slows down again. What is going on?? All different computers, all issues I can't find any reference to anywhere else on the internet. I've been with Ubuntu since I started using GNU/Linux but I'm starting to think I should move on to something more stable.

EDIT:
Specs for the 2 screwiest installs:

Intel i5 750 2.66Ghz
MSI P55M-GD45 Micro Atx mobo
8GB G.Skill Ripjaws Ddr3 1600Mhz Sdram
nVidia GTX 460 1Gb

Intel Core 2 Duo 1.8Ghz
Some old Gateway mobo
2GB G.Skill Ddr2 800Mhz Sdram
ATI Radeon X1600 Pro 512mb

Specs for machine 3:

Toshiba Satellite A135-S4527 Laptop
Intel Pentium T2080 1.73Ghz
Mobile Intel 943GML Express
1GB Ddr2 533Mhz Sdram
Intel GMA 950

I should also add that on the first machine, I also have Windows 7 and Mac OS X Lion installed and have had no issues with them. Just Ubuntu 12.04.

---

### Post by claracc on 2012-09-23
My experience is completely different.

I upgraded to 12.04 from 10.04 one month ago, and as updates had being installed, the system works better and better (quicker, and more responsive).

Have you consulted if your hardware is compatible with 12.04 ubuntu release?, have you installed privative drivers?, what graphics card do you have and what are the specs of your hardware?.

As you don't add any hardware information is impossible to give advice about your problem.

---

### Post by Chaosenemy on 2012-09-23
Hmmm, well the only reason I didn't post specs was because the first 2 completely different machines were having identical problems, and every problem so far (on all 3) has been after a software update. Before the updates, everything worked great. Doesn't appear to be hardware problems, imo.

EDIT: Specs added to first post.

Hope that helps heh. Thanks.

---

### Post by Chaosenemy on 2012-09-25
Well I've re-installed 12.04 on the first machine and things seem fine so far. #3 hasn't given me issues since I posted. #2 I haven't messed with. Still looking for some enlightenment on these problems though if anyone has info. Would be much appreciated.

---

