---
title: "monitor problems"
date: 2008-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-18
i dl the latest ubuntu recently and i think i did everything correctly. One small problem though, when im in ubuntu the screen is all messed up. About 1/8 on the screen is black and the resolution is very low. The screen is not aligned right with my monitor(windows and cursors run off one part of the screen while the other side is black) But when i open windows, everything is normal.... does anyone know how to fix this problem? thanks for your help! : )

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-18
sorry i didnt include this but i have a nvidea geforce 6100 videa card on a gateway computer.....i activated something (forgot specifically what i did and i cant get back to it) because i could only get a resolution of like 800x600 frame sixe. But once i activated that card or thinger i could get like 1200x1400(the highest one). When i clicked it though my screen turned black. So i restarrted and after the ubuntu loading screen the screen just turns black....what do i do now? THANKS!

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-18
boot in recovery mode, xfix, that will probably fix the black problem help. After you do that (If it works) go into /ect/X11/xorg.conf and display xorg.conf on this thread.

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-18
recover mode is black too....doesnt help me :/

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-18
so now what do i do?

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-18
alright so xfix worked......now how do i get show the xorg.conf?

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-19
Just this in terminal```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-19
alright im in idiot.....so i typed that in and i got to a page....but how do i display my configuraitons?

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-19
thomas@thomas-desktop:~$ sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

** (gedit:6066): WARNING **: Could not write gedit state file: Failed to create file '/root/.gnome2/gedit-2.BDG1KU': No such file or directory

I/O error : No such file or directory
I/O error : No such file or directory



...that also pops up in the terminal window

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-19
Forget xorg for now. Try system>prefs>screen resolution. See if there are your monitor res options displayed correctly.

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-19
its has a 800x600 resolution and it cant go higher....i know my video driver doesnt support linux..soo i dont know how to fix that

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-19
Are any drivers offered in 

system>admin>hardware drivers

---

### Post by jus71n742 on 2008-11-19
Have you installed the Drivers for the NVIDIA card?  if not you should deffinately do that and that will most likely take care of most of your display problems.  
Use ```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
``` to get out of your graphics completely Xserver and everything. then (after downloading the driver of course) run ```
sudo sh /*.run
``` ( I think that is the right code I will look it up and get back to you on that.) and then follow the on screen directions.  

all else fails you can get ```
envyng -t
``` that will go and get the necessary drivers

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-19
The driver he needs is in synaptic.

nvidia-glx-177

Might need reinstalling

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-19
i just google it?

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-19
System>Admin>Synaptic Package Manager.

click the search button and type nvidia-glx-177

Right click the entry and select mark for reinstall. Then click apply button.

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-19
hate to be super annoying but...
nvidia-glx-dev
nvidia-kernal-source
nvidia-177-modaliasses

does it matter which one i pick?

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-19
nvidia-glx-177

just that one

It might say it needs something else installed just click mark and then apply.

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-19
so i installed it...but how does that help my monitor....thanks for your help by the way : )

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-19
If you want to post xorg.conf just enter the file as i instructed you before. Once you are in it press ctrl+a then right-click the highlighted text and select copy. Then go to the forum, make a new reply on this thread right-click and select paste and submit reply. Then we should see the contents of xorg.conf.

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-19
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection



that doesnt tell you anything though right?....i did exactly what you said

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-20
Right now i don't see anything that needs to be changed, but it ALWAYS helps to see this file just in case.

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-20
This is mine. You could make yours match mine.

```
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by Marius Derekus on 2008-11-20
That's ok, just make sure you make a backup of your original xorg.conf  first.

---

### Post by thomasf45 on 2008-11-20
I switch my config. like you told me but when I started up it said:

-Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode.
-The following error was encountered. You may need to update your configuration to solve this.
 -(EE) Problem parsing the configuration file
 -(EE) Error parsing the configuration file

Then it gave me these options:

-Run in low graphics mode
-Reconfig. graphics
-Troubleshoot error

I ran it in low graphics and then it said:

-Restricted drivers are now available.  

It then recommended:

-Nvidia accelerated graphics driver 177

for download.

Do you think I should download it?

And BTW it looks so much better now that I did what you said!

---

