---
title: "Modify /proc/cpuinfo file"
date: 2015-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pirpi on 2015-07-04
Hi all,

I want to modify the /proc/cpuinfo file. I need to edit the Serial parameter in the cpuinfo file. 
Is there any way to modify the /proc/cpuinfo file?

Thanks
pirpi

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-07-04
cpuinfo is an informational, read-only file. I'm not sure exactly what you're trying to do, but attempting to modify cpuinfo is probably the wrong way to do it. Give more information..

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-07-04
Not only is cpuinfo an informational, read-only file, it is also a virtual file, and even if you did manage to edit it I suspect the changes would not be retained.

---

### Post by pirpi on 2015-07-06
Thanks for reply.I want to change the CPU serial. ls there any way to change the serial of CPU?

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2015-07-06
CPU serial? I'm not seeing any "serial" on my /proc/cpuinfo file. 

Can you give details or screenshot on where you see this "serial" that you want to change?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-07-06
> **nerdtron said:**
> CPU serial? I'm not seeing any "serial" on my /proc/cpuinfo file. 

Can you give details or screenshot on where you see this "serial" that you want to change?
Same here; no serial number? shown in the output.

---

### Post by lisati on 2015-07-06
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Same here; no serial number? shown in the output.

No serial number showing for mine either, but mine does show a model name.

If you're talking about the serial port (USB, RS232 etc), then modifying /proc/cpuinfo probably isn't the place to be looking.

---

### Post by pirpi on 2015-07-06
I am working on the arm boards and trying to change the CPU serial number present in the cpuinfo file. please let me know if any way is there to do it?

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-07-06
I think you're on the wrong forum, or you need to explain why you're trying to change the serial number on the CPU.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-07-07
/proc is a *virtual* file system created and held in memory, not stored on disk.  The files don't "exist" except as information gathered or generated by the kernel.  Some /proc files allow you a sort of "read/write" access as a method of interacting with the kernel, but doing so is not for the novice.

You can't change /proc/cpuinfo unless you want to modify the kernel.  If you could, your changes would be wiped out every time the file was updated by the kernel.

You certainly can't change anything physical about the CPU by doing anything to a file, virtual or not.

---

