---
title: "18.10 Ringing When Android Phone Gets Incoming Call"
date: 2019-02-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ytterbious on 2019-02-19
For some reason, my desktop itself makes a ringing sound whenever I get an incoming call on my android phone. I never installed "Android Notifier" or anything of the sort but it happens nonetheless. I have no idea what is going on because besides connecting my phone to my computer via bluetooth, I have never turned on a setting that would allow this! (It also still happens when bluetooth is disabled on both the phone and the desktop so that couldn't be it).

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2019-02-19
some settings in gmail?

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2019-02-21
Hello,

I have noticed this as well in 18.04. The following might be a solution for you, yet what troubles me is the deactivation thing you have mentioned.

You could check in your mobile phone your bluetooth icon. While having connected your mobile phone with your computer, you should see some dots... If this is the case, it seems that you have synchronized your mobile phone with your ubu box. This can happen when you first connect your mobile with your computer.

What you will have to do is while connected, to select the bluetooth icon from your mobile phone and from the options that will appear just turn it off (you will see something like transfer of sound there, if I recall correctly)->then you will see the normal bluetooth icon to your mobile, without the dots. Also, in flashback, when this happens I'm able to see a key on my top panel, yet this depends on your desktop environment and theme. If this option is released, the key will disappear and will only appear when you try to transfer something.

Regards!

---

