---
title: "11.04 hangs at boot time"
date: 2011-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zidolson on 2011-11-14
Just updated my 11.04 to the latest kernel update [2.6.38-12] and it now hangs at the boot screen. Fortunately I can choose an older kernel version [2.6.38-8], which still works.

I have a hunch that its somehow related to my nvidia driver, but this is so far only guess work.

Is there someway that I get rid of the purple graphics and see whats going on behind the scenes. And what is the proper way of communicating (on this forum) whatever errors I locate.

Best regards,

Zid

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-11-14
To see what is going on, press 'e' at the grub menu on the item you want to boot. Cursor to the 'linux' line and remove 'quiet splash'. This will allow  you to see the messages as the system boots. You can also try adding 'nomodeset' to the same line, which may allow the kernel to boot to the Desktop, where you will want to add your video driver.

After making the changes to the end of the 'linux' line, press CTRL-x to boot. The change is non-persistent.

---

### Post by zidolson on 2011-11-14
Thanks for the reply.

For the 2.6.38-12 kernel I tried to remove the 'quiet splash' line and then pressed Ctrl+X. Then I observe:


[LIST]
[*]Purple screen (no boot info)
[*]Black screen (no boot info)
[*]Hangs
[/LIST]
Not a single boot info line is printed. Then I tried the same procedure with 2.6.38-8 and observe 


[LIST]
[*]Purple screen (no boot info)
[*]Black screen (no boot info)
[*]Boots to log-in screen.
[/LIST]
But as before, Not a single boot info line is printed.

Hmm....

---

### Post by zidolson on 2011-11-14
Tried the 'nomodeset' option for both kernels. Same behavior as before and, for the 2.6.38-8 kernel, no 'dialogue' or similar is displayed offering choices between different video drivers.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-11-14
Regarding the 'nomodeset' option, just to be clear - this option would allow you to boot to the desktop. At that point, you would open the Additional Drivers app and install the correct video driver. The 'nomodeset' option itself won't present any installation options; it just prevents certain modules which may be interfering with the boot from loading.

Removing 'quiet splash' would normally allow the boot messages to appear on the monitor. 

You might try booting your good kernel and opening /etc/default/grub and 'forcing' a boot resolution. The easiest way to do this is to uncomment the *#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480* entry, then running 'sudo update-grub'.  The 640x480 resolution should be able to be handled by any computer and perhaps you will see the boot messages.

---

### Post by WasMeHere on 2011-11-14
Hi zidolson,

I think you should try some boot-options according to the following post
[[COLOR="RoyalBlue"]_http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11451221&postcount=4_[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11451221&postcount=4")

Look for (in the links)
> Changing boot options Temporarily for an Existing Installation
See the Grub2 page.

Changing boot options Permanently for an Existing Installation
This can be done by :
    *       manually editing GRUB2 configuration file then updating GRUB
    *      or using the "GRUB options" tab of Boot-Repair then Apply. 

Have fun finding out :-)
Olle

---

### Post by zidolson on 2011-11-15
> **drs305 said:**
> Regarding the 'nomodeset' option, just to be clear - this option would allow you to boot to the desktop. At that point, you would open the Additional Drivers app and install the correct video driver. The 'nomodeset' option itself won't present any installation options; it just prevents certain modules which may be interfering with the boot from loading.

Removing 'quiet splash' would normally allow the boot messages to appear on the monitor. 

You might try booting your good kernel and opening /etc/default/grub and 'forcing' a boot resolution. The easiest way to do this is to uncomment the *#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480* entry, then running 'sudo update-grub'.  The 640x480 resolution should be able to be handled by any computer and perhaps you will see the boot messages.

I tried modifying *#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480*. Has no effect, i.e. I observe exactly the same behavior as reported above.

Also, the 'nomodeset' option has no effect at all.

---

### Post by WasMeHere on 2011-11-15
Can you run a live system from a CD or USB drive? It might help to test some boot options (see link in my previous post) ***live*** before trying them on the installed system. Try all of them in turn to find out (if necessary).

---

