---
title: "2.6.24-series of Kernels don't &quot;work&quot; since upgrade"
date: 2008-05-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by navneeth on 2008-05-27
Ever since the upgrade to Hardy, I've noticed that Ubuntu is unable to boot using the 2.6.24- kernel in my computer. I'm using 2.6.22-14 now. Yesterday, there was an update, and still it does not work. 

Usual Boot Process: Starting up...-> Orange Ubuntu bar grows from left to right->a couple of minutes later, the desktop appears.

With 2.6.24: Starting up...-> A shot orange bar keeps moving back and forth-> A cursor (an underscore) keeps blinking at the top left corner for what seems an eternity. 

Anyway to rectify this problem? 

Thanks.

---

### Post by navneeth on 2008-06-04
BUMP.

2.6.24.-18 doesn't work, either. Could some at least tell me how to retain a working kernel(2.6.22, in my case) and prevent it being "pushed out" of GRUB when the kernel is updated, please?

---

### Post by nick_h on 2008-06-04
Edit your /boot/grub/menu.lst file and look for the line:
```
# howmany=all
```
Check that it is set to *all* (or the number of kernels you want listed in grub).

When new kernels are installed, Ubuntu does not remove the old ones.
If a kernel is updated and the revision number does not increase then you will not be able to use the previous version before the updates.

---

### Post by navneeth on 2008-06-05
> **nick_h said:**
> Edit your /boot/grub/menu.lst file and look for the line:
```
# howmany=all
```
Check that it is set to *all* (or the number of kernels you want listed in grub).
Thank you. :) 

> If a kernel is updated and the revision number does not increase then you will not be able to use the previous version before the updates.
I'm not sure I understand thins. :S

---

### Post by nick_h on 2008-06-05
> I'm not sure I understand thins. :S

I'll try to explain a bit better.

If you have kernel version 2.6.24-17 and an update gives you 2.6.24-18 then you will end up with both kernels on your system with the latest being the default.

If the update was just an update to 2.6.24-17 then you would end up with the new version of 2.6.24-17 and lose the old copy of 2.6.24-17.

---

### Post by leito666 on 2008-06-05
Seems that 2.6.24.-18 is having lot of troubles right?

---

### Post by ohiomoto on 2008-06-05
I had problems with kernel 18.  I was just about to give up and I decided to remove all old kernels and now 2.6.24-18 works perfectly.  Makes no sense to me, but it worked.  Good luck.

---

### Post by geirha on 2008-06-05
Try booting, then at the grub menu, mark the 2.6.24-18 kernel and hit "e" to edit it. Then mark the kernel line and hit "e" to edit it, and remove the two words "quiet" and "splash" from the end of that line. Then hit "b" to boot. There shouldn't be an orange bar now, instead you should see lots of output from the kernel. Hopefully there's some useful information there that may explain why it won't boot.

---

### Post by maphilli14 on 2008-06-05
I've defiantly had .18 crash on me several times.  Perhaps also .17.  I never got .16 to boot at all.  Most success I've had was on .15.  Running T60p Lenovo.

Crashes are compiz-style lock ups of video with no messages in the sys logs.

Mike

---

### Post by navneeth on 2008-06-05
> **nick_h said:**
> If you have kernel version 2.6.24-17 and an update gives you 2.6.24-18 then you will end up with both kernels on your system with the latest being the default.

If the update was just an update to 2.6.24-17 then you would end up with the new version of 2.6.24-17 and lose the old copy of 2.6.24-17.
Oh. Okay. I don't think I've come across that situation before.

---

### Post by navneeth on 2008-06-05
> **geirha said:**
> Try booting, then at the grub menu, mark the 2.6.24-18 kernel and hit "e" to edit it. Then mark the kernel line and hit "e" to edit it, and remove the two words "quiet" and "splash" from the end of that line. Then hit "b" to boot. There shouldn't be an orange bar now, instead you should see lots of output from the kernel. Hopefully there's some useful information there that may explain why it won't boot.

Thanks. Would there be any chance of taking screenshots (with a computer program) when that is happening?

---

