---
title: "12.04 dual boot problems with vista 32bit"
date: 2013-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by steve41 on 2013-09-09
Total Layman here;

I am running windows vista 32bit.

So here's what i've done.
- I used a usb stick to install ubuntu 12.04
- I changed my bio setting to load from usb
- Loading worked. Installed ubuntu successfully to harddrive as a "dual boot." - partitioned half and half between windows and ubuntu.

Here's where i am at: 

The OS works fine, changed bio's to load from harddrive, removed usb stick. Now it doesn't work unless i change bios back to load from usb. Even then it is just the ISO from the usb, and not the version i loaded to the harddrive. ie. it doesn't display any settings i changed or, saved files.

So i am not sure what to do. If i remove the usb, change bios, and restart it offers me a variety of versions of ubuntu to load (ubuntu 12.04, safe mode, linux, etc.) I select the top selection ubuntu 12.04, it appears to be loading, the top half of the purple screen appears, and then the screen goes black, although the computer seems to be doing something, nothing ever loads, the screen just stays black until i restart.

I am writing this now after loading via usb.

Help would be very much appreciated, this is causing me great frustration.

---

### Post by David_Pecot on 2013-09-09
I've never used a USB version of Ubuntu (except once as a test with Puppy linux).  But in general, I'd probably just re-install.  I have always installed from CD's and never had a problem ... except (well, to be honest) the first time I ever tried it 10 years ago -- beginners bad luck it seems.

---

### Post by bewareofthephog on 2013-09-09
edit:

Did you install via wubi.exe?

---

### Post by David_Pecot on 2013-09-09
Not that it sounds like a problem per se but sometimes I see people using very old flash drives ... so be sure you have a good one.

@phog
> Try

sudo update-grub from Ubuntu without your thumb drive.
I don't think we are getting Ubuntu working here without the thumb drive ;)  Anyway, it sounds like we are getting past grub and finding the boot code - but something goes wrong during the boot process.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-09-09
Grub auto installs to sda as that is usually the default boot drive in BIOS. But some BIOS promoter the flash drive to sda and grub gets installed to the flash drive not the hard drive.

From your install run Boot-Repair or just install grub to sda if hard drive is sda or sdb if hard drive is sdb.

       #reinstall from working (not liveCD/DVD/USB) system - first find Ubuntu drive (example is drive sdb but use your drive not partitions):
sudo fdisk -l
#if it's "/dev/sdb"  then just run:
sudo grub-install /dev/sdb
#If that returns any errors run:
sudo grub-install --recheck /dev/sdb
sudo update-grub


 Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.
LighterWeight (Lubuntu based) Boot-RepairCD
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/boot-repair-cd/files/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/boot-repair-cd/files/)

---

### Post by steve41 on 2013-09-09
Yes, installed via wubi.exe

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-09-10
Wubi now only installs from inside Windows. And it uses the Windows boot loader so it would not boot from flash drive.

Post Bootinfo report so we can see details.
       Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)

---

### Post by bewareofthephog on 2013-09-10
> **David_Pecot said:**
> Not that it sounds like a problem per se but sometimes I see people using very old flash drives ... so be sure you have a good one.

@phog

I don't think we are getting Ubuntu working here without the thumb drive ;)  Anyway, it sounds like we are getting past grub and finding the boot code - but something goes wrong during the boot process.

You're quick on the draw :)  I edited my reply after I saw that

---

### Post by steve41 on 2013-09-10
reinstalled. Seems to work now. 

First screen that comes up after restart said something like "KVM disabled by BIOS."

And then goes to the option screen that asks which version of ubuntu i want to start up, then it loads flawlessly, twice in a row so far.

---

