---
title: "Cannot remove some files from Trash"
date: 2006-02-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by renzokuken on 2006-02-07
I have two folders (both containing various obsolete files) in my trash can. The trouble is, I can't remove them from the trash. When i try an error message comes up saying....

"Error While Deleting : "/home/rob/...../file.xxx" cannot be deleted because you do not permission to modify its parent folder"

If I send other files to my trash can I can remove those, just not these two which now permanently reside in trash-can.

I think i put them there when i was moving files around during a reformat of a disk so the permissions got changed. I've tried to do a "sudo rm" from a terminal but with no luck, as with doing a chmod on the two files.

Any help would really be appreciated, it's really getting quite annoying having something permanently in the trash.

---

### Post by Greg2 on 2006-02-07
[QUOTE=renzokuken]
"Error While Deleting : "/home/rob/...../file.xxx" cannot be deleted because you do not permission to modify its parent folder[/QUOTE]
You need to change permissions. So do```
sudo chmod –R 700 ~/.Trash
```

---

### Post by kwaanens on 2006-02-07
[QUOTE=Greg2]You need to change permissions. So do```
sudo chmod &#8211;R 700 ~/.Trash
```[/QUOTE]

This command will give no permissions to anyone but owner.
You want:
```
sudo chmod &#8211;R 777 ~/.Trash
```

- Ketil

EDIT: Sorry, Ignore me, I'm stupid :) And it's too late. Try Greg2's way!

---

### Post by Greg2 on 2006-02-07
I was trying not to change the trash permission. I suppose you ‘should’ cd to ~/.Trash and use chmod with 777 if you still have problems?

---

### Post by soulestream on 2006-02-07
if those two files are owned by root, just 

sudo rm /home/rob/.Trash/file.xxx

if its everyfile then you need to check permissions

soule

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2006-02-07
ok, i manged to get rid of one of the folders, but the other one is proving a bit of a challenge.

in side my trash can now is a single folder (which i want to delete), inside this folder are two more folders which i know are/were folders but Nautilus no longer recognises as folders (uses the generic gnome file icon as opposed to a folder for them). i guess the two folders inside got corrupted or something.

here it is in the following image, on the left is my trash can containing the folder i want deleted "crap". on the right are the contents of the crap folder which are "graham" and "digikam" which i know to also be folders but nautilus thinks otherwise.

help...please, im so confused @_@

---

### Post by AndyCooll on 2006-02-07
As root type the following
# rm -rf $HOME/.Trash/*

Empties the trash everytime for me

:cool:

---

### Post by ronb on 2006-02-07
[QUOTE=renzokuken]ok, i manged to get rid of one of the folders, but the other one is proving a bit of a challenge.

help...please, im so confused @_@[/QUOTE]

Are using the Terminal?  

Open Terminal:Applications > Accessories > Terminal
Then I think soulestream's solution will do it.

[QUOTE=soulestream] 
sudo rm /home/rob/.Trash/file.xxx

[/QUOTE]

Has to work.  Don't forget to change **file.xxx** to your folder names.

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2006-02-07
That doesnt work either....says it can't remove directories

rob@jenova:~$ sudo rm /home/rob/.Trash/crap
Password:
rm: cannot remove `/home/rob/.Trash/crap': Is a directory
rob@jenova:~$ sudo rm /home/rob/.Trash/crap/graham
rm: cannot remove `/home/rob/.Trash/crap/graham': Is a directory
rob@jenova:~$ sudo rm /home/rob/.Trash/crap/digicam
rm: cannot remove `/home/rob/.Trash/crap/digicam': Is a directory

edit, i just tried "rmdir" and get the following

rob@jenova:~$ sudo rmdir /home/rob/.Trash/crap/digicam
rmdir: `/home/rob/.Trash/crap/digicam': Directory not empty

well how am i supposed to remove the directory if i cant get inside "graham" or "digicam" to remove the files in it first?

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2006-02-07
[QUOTE=AndyCooll]As root type the following
# rm -rf $HOME/.Trash/*

Empties the trash everytime for me

:cool:[/QUOTE]


Thanks Andy, solved it first time, nearly missed ur post too.....

You have no idea how nice it is to see an empty trash can for the first time in a while

---

### Post by 3dmaker on 2006-02-07
You can also try instead of typing in rm type in rm -rf
Works for me.

---

### Post by Mike-97470 on 2006-03-18
I have a similar problem and none of the proposed solutions work, so far.  I was moving my music folders/files which were generated by Goobox and/or Sound Juicer around between an internal disk and a usb disk (and doing a little repartitioning to get more ext2 space), and then Trashed an unwanted music duplicate.  When I emptied the Trash almost all of the files/folders emptied except for 1 music file and all of the Album folders in the "Various" Artist  category.  All remaining folders/files belong to my User account except for the Various folder which belongs to Root for some reason that I have no clue.  So I just logged into root, and deleted the contents of /home/mike/.Trash.  It deleted, but when I logged back into my account, the same file and Various Artist/Album folders that were there, were and still are there.  (When logged into root, they are still gone.)

One of the really cool things is this (the trash really isn't there,
but it really is)--
mike@MikesPavillion:~$ sudo rm /home/mike/.Trash/Various
Password:
rm: cannot remove `/home/mike/.Trash/Various': No such file or directory
mike@MikesPavillion:~$

This doesn't indicate an error, but it doesn't empty the .Trash--
mike@MikesPavillion:~$ su
Password:
root@MikesPavillion:/home/mike # rm -rf $HOME/.Trash/*
root@MikesPavillion:/home/mike #

I've attached a screenshot of the Trash folder, the permissions of Various, and the can't delete error message.

Hopefully someone will have some more things to try . . . Thanks,

---

### Post by Mike-97470 on 2006-03-18
In one of the other threads around here someone mentions that every disk/partiton has its own Trash.  So I looked and sure enough my trash was--

/media/D:/.Trash-mike, so I deleted that folder and the trash disappeared from my trash can.  Thanks for all of your help!

---

### Post by rsfrost on 2006-03-22
I had great luck clearing the trash with this command

sudo rm -rf $HOME/.Trash/*

---

### Post by Sunsangnim on 2006-04-06
[QUOTE=rsfrost]I had great luck clearing the trash with this command

sudo rm -rf $HOME/.Trash/*[/QUOTE]
Thanks bud, I was having major problems with the permissions in my trash, but this worked like magic!

---

### Post by martijn hoekstra on 2006-04-06
shouldnt the "empty trashcan" item be changed to the sudo comand by default? maybe even still in Dapper?

---

### Post by ashrack on 2006-06-11
[QUOTE=rsfrost]I had great luck clearing the trash with this command

sudo rm -rf $HOME/.Trash/*[/QUOTE]
but that command wont delete the hidden filles like .XINE-CONF...
but this will
```
sudo rm -rf $HOME/.Trash/* $HOME/.Trash/.*
```

---

