---
title: "10.10 unable to lock ..."
date: 2010-12-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gdea73 on 2010-12-15
Alright... well I'm not completely new to Ubuntu. I used 9.10 for a few months last year on my old PC, and liked it, but had to switch back to Windows for a while. Now I've built a new PC with a Phenom II X4, and I don't have a Windows 7 DVD handy, so I put Ubuntu 10.10 (amd64) on it. And so far it's been  nothing but problems... while downloading updates during install, my CABLE internet connection was running BELOW 56kB/s, but that it just stupid Comcast, I guess.

First of all, I wanted to get video drivers for my Radeon 5750. AMD's site keeps timing out. I'll deal with that later.
Then I wanted to get smartmontools to check my new harddrive for bad sectors (because the first install attempt failed with error [5]).

I typed "sudo apt-get install smartmontools", the password, but then all the sudden a Postfix Configuration box popped up. I tried to configure it, but it was just as described here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1176456](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1176456)

So then I tried to install postfix via Ubuntu Software Center, but it said "waiting for apt-get to exit". I had NOTHING else open.

So I tried installing postfix via Synaptic. And... it immediately said this:

E: Could not get lock /var/cache/apt/archives/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the download directory
(again only thing open)
SO *THEN* I tried going into terminal (after closing synaptic) and then typing su. Then I didn't have a root password. So I set it. Then I typed su again. and typed the password. and it worked.

Tried installing again via Synaptic, and same problem. WHAT DO I DO? this is extremely frustrating...

Thanks in advance; any help would be greatly appreciated.

- gdea73

---

### Post by pellgarlic on 2010-12-17
hi. it sounds like the attempt to install postfix using apt-get has hung... did you check using:

```
# ps ax | grep apt-get
```

to see if there was a "zombie" process?

if there is, you need to kill it before trying to use any other package management tool.

it also may be that if apt-get died before it could "release" the lock file, it is still there...

check this:
```

# ls -l /var/cache/apt/archives/lock
```

if you _definitely_ don't have any package management tool running, that file can be manually removed, allowing synaptic or aptitude to function.

also, i would strongly recommend using "aptitude" over "apt-get".

---

