---
title: "8.04 Skype logitech webcam C200"
date: 2009-12-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Janeleaper on 2009-12-11
I got this webcam to work with 9.10.  Now I'm trying to get it to work on a pc running 8.04.  In Skype the camera is working but not the microphone.  The microphone works intermittently in Cheese.

I tried using a standard plug in microphone (ie that plugs into the pink microphone port), but that does not work with skype either.

Am I going to have to upgrade?  I'd prefer not to go all the way to Karmic, because of the problems with 9.10.  Will I need to go to 9.04, or will 8.10 be ok?  Or is there anything I can try to get either of the microphones working?  I've tried the Sound options.

---

### Post by yeeshkull on 2010-01-20
I'm having trouble seeing the video output from this cam in Karmic and in Jaunty.  Can you please list the steps you took to get it up and running?

---

### Post by tubunu on 2010-03-09
> **yeeshkull said:**
> I'm having trouble seeing the video output from this cam in Karmic and in Jaunty.  Can you please list the steps you took to get it up and running?

I upgraded from Jaunty to Karmic via Synaptic system upgrade. Plugged in my Logitech C200 USB webcam and it works out of the box! I can't figure out the settings for the integrated webcam microphone to work, but in the mean time I'm using a separate microphone that's plugged into my sound card. If anyone succeeds in getting the mic to work, do post back. Thanks!

---

### Post by tubunu on 2010-03-10
Just posting back because all of a sudden the Logitech C200 microphone works. All I did was change the settings under System/Preferences/Sound.

---

