---
title: "8.04 or 8.10?"
date: 2008-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chrispche on 2008-12-03
I'm perfectly happy with my hardy install and everything is working just as I want it. Is there any benefit to upgrading to 8.10 intrepid? Or is it just better to upgrade to the next LTS? What advantages are there really to upgrading? I don't really want to re-install and re-configure my machine as it's working perfectly. Any ideas?

---

### Post by aheckler on 2008-12-03
If you're happy with your 8.04 LTS install, then I see no reason to upgrade. As long as you keep up-to-date with your security upgrades and such, you'll be fine.

EDIT: Here's a page that lists all the new stuff in 8.10: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidIbex/TechnicalOverview](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/IntrepidIbex/TechnicalOverview)

---

### Post by OrangeCrate on 2008-12-03
There's no compelling reason to upgrade versions, if your current one is working for you, and it's still supported.

Many people are simply attracted to bright, shiny objects, and they can't wait to upgrade.

(Like me, :))

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2008-12-03
> **aheckler said:**
> If you're happy with your 8.04 LTS install, then I see no reason to upgrade. As long as you keep up-to-date with your security upgrades and such, you'll be fine.


I agree with aheckler. If there is no compelling reason to go to 8.10 don't do it just for sake of doing it.  I upgraded to 8.10, because for me rt61pci wireless driver under 8.04 was causing problems and the one with 8.10 was newer and worked better.

---

### Post by automaton26 on 2008-12-03
If you're perfectly happy, then never upgrade I.T.   :)

IMHO, the only reason to ever upgrade any software is if there are definite productivity or security benefits. And even then, there's always a risk of new problems being introduced.

Unless you enjoy the challenge, of course, and don't mind spending time looking for workarounds, or restoring your previous state.

---

