---
title: "14.10 Live CD Login"
date: 2014-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sasafrass452 on 2014-10-25
Ok, I'm attempting to try the live CD, to find out if I have the same issues I'm having with my current installation(14.10 upgraded from 14.04). It's asking me to login, but nothing I've tried works. What username & password do I use?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-10-25
Which release are you using on the LiveDVD? 14.10? See if 14.04 LTS has the same issue then you can get a clue as to whether it's release specific. Was 14.04 LTS running fine? If it was, just out of curiousity, did you decide to upgrade for a specific reason? 

When is the LiveDVD asking for a password?

---

### Post by sasafrass452 on 2014-10-25
It's 14.10, just as the thread title says. In 14.04, I had a graphics issue that was never resolved. It was minor, so I ignored it. Then, yesterday, I was prompted for the upgrade to 14.10 & I did so as anyone else would, though I'd hoped my graphics issue would finally be resolved, but now it's MUCH worse. I posted here about it, but someone only suggested that I reinstall Ubuntu, as their problems were resolved by doing so. I figured I could at least try the live CD & see how it goes. So, I burned it, put the disc in & rebooted. After selecting "try ubuntu", I waited for it to load, then it prompted me to login, but there was nothing on the screen telling me what username & password to use. So, here I am, back at square 1....

> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Which release are you using on the LiveDVD? 14.10? See if 14.04 LTS has the same issue then you can get a clue as to whether it's release specific. Was 14.04 LTS running fine? If it was, just out of curiousity, did you decide to upgrade for a specific reason? 

When is the LiveDVD asking for a password?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-10-25
Apologies. Time for bed here. That is really strange and a complete new one on me. ;)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-10-25
The only time a live DVD or USB asks for a password normally is when you decide to logout; it goes back to the login screen and sits there.  The user is normally simply ubuntu, xubuntu, lubuntu, or I presume kubuntu, but I've never used that.

Just type in that username in lowercase and hit enter, do not give a password, and it may login under that name for you.

However, it should not happen, so I am a bit concerned that the DVD you have is corrupt in some way as it should go straight to the desktop, not the login screen.  Boot to DVD again and at the first screen you see hit enter, choose the language you want, then choose "Check install media" or whatever the phrase used is; I can't remember the wording.  It will take a few minutes to check and will hopefully say "No errors found; hit enter to reboot" If it finds even one error check your .iso file against the hashes shown at [UbuntuHashes - MD5sum]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes") and download again if it does not match, or reburn the DVD if the iso file is OK.

---

### Post by sasafrass452 on 2014-10-26
Ok, I tried the live CD again, & interestingly, it didn't ask me to login. Well, it didn't take long to see that I'd be no better off with a fresh installation than I am now.... I still have the graphics issue, which I think is hardware related. I'll bump up my other thread about that, & hopefully, there's something I can do to fix it.

---

