---
title: "9.10 volume control &amp; typing problem"
date: 2009-11-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kiomkids on 2009-11-10
[SIZE=3][SIZE=2]Hi, I am new to Ubuntu system, and recently I just upgraded to 9.10 from 9.04 (before that was 8.10).

Although there are already many posts about the sound problem (and actually I have tried out all the related solutions but none of them worked), my problem is a bit different. It's not just about the sound only!!!

First of all, let me explain my situation here...
My sound actually works and it plays, but it will turn down the volume a little by little and finally come to mute itself while or not I am typing. 
This problem is most apparent when I am typing on keyboards.
I have no idea what is causing this problem and the volume control panel (the black poping stuff) always interfere with my typing...!
Either it doesn't allow me to type at all, or just showing lots of ";;;;;;" and blocking my typing (which often prevents me from logging in when it comes to type the user name and passwords).

details of my computer/system:
HP Pavilion dv1000
GNOME 2.28.1 (Ubuntu 2009-11-03)
Linux 2.6.31-14-generic i686
Intel(R) Pentium(R) M processor 1.60GHz

ps: I have been reinstalling different versions of Ubuntu or do a fresh/clean re-installation of the same version (9.10), but the same problem still exists. 

I REALLY HOPE THAT THIS PROBLEM CAN BE SOLVED BECAUSE I LOVE UBUNTU AND I DON'T WANT TO GO BACK TO WINDOWS, PLEASE HELP!!!!!!
[/SIZE][/SIZE]

---

### Post by kiomkids on 2009-11-14
all right, i guess no one was able to help me solve these problems
and i could stand it any longer...
just bought a new laptop and ubuntu 9.10 works perfectly on it...
except that wireless is very unstable...ALAS!

---

### Post by ltbs on 2010-01-20
I have exactly the same issue, if I increase the volume it will max out, if i decrease the volume it will go to mute with the volume graphics flashing. It leaves me unable to do anything at all, can't type, can't access any menus, the taskbar stays a dark colour where i have clicked. The only way out is ctl-alt-del and restart the system.

ubuntu 9.10, advent pentium dual core, 3GB ram, 250hd

---

### Post by ltbs on 2010-01-20
uninstalled 9.10 and installed 9.04, same issues, must be my system i guess :-(

---

### Post by ManiacDan on 2010-01-20
Both of you should open a bug report with your sound card information enclosed, the Canonical team doesn't have an unlimited amount of money or computers to test the new releases on, and they don't have the benefit of being able to force hardware manufacturers to write drivers for them.

---

### Post by ltbs on 2010-01-20
just an update, ran Mint 8 live cd, same problem, so it's not just related to ubuntu but something to do with my system settings and linux in general i guess, will persevere with migrating from vista to linux none the less

---

### Post by shellyrandhawa on 2010-07-09
Hello Guys,

I am also facing the same problem with typing. I am using hp dv6000 with dual boot with vista. While typing cursor goes to some where else and messed up with other words. Also when i scroll the web page down or up it continuously moves until reaches the end.. So any useful ideas?

- Thanks..

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-07-09
> **shellyrandhawa said:**
> Hello Guys,

I am also facing the same problem with typing. I am using hp dv6000 with dual boot with vista. While typing cursor goes to some where else and messed up with other words. Also when i scroll the web page down or up it continuously moves until reaches the end.. So any useful ideas?

- Thanks..

Have you tried disabling the touchpad while typing?

---

