---
title: "9.04 won't start properly because of ATI driver"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dracu@l on 2009-05-08
Hi
I installed Ubuntu, and more. then I wanted a newer ATI driver (for Xpress 1100) then i installed the newest I could find with synaptic package manager. 
It seemed to do nothing with the computer
 
Later on, my computer crashed just when i started an app after a successfull installation, so I used the power button to turn it off. (hold for 5 secs) then Ubuntu started to boot, everything seemed normal, Grub loading ok, ata1 softreset failed (it was there before too) but after the loading screen the computer screen only shows static that turns to black and white stripes. now i need help to find out how to uninstall the display driver from comand line option from boot menu. 
is this possible, or is it another way of fixing it?, please help. i need my computer. and id prefer not to reinstall ubuntu and all the apps.. 
oh, and the static is constantly changing slowly.. its weird.. :confused:
please help
-Magnus
Edit: And before the Ubuntu bootloader runs, the screen is flickering..

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-08
Try this:

> **gocek said:**
> Reboot PC and select "recovery mode" in boot-manager (GRUB) and then go for "root shell" option. 
After that just type:
```
sudo apt-get remove xorg-driver-fglrx
```

Now you will need to restore your original settings, so either restore any backed-up copy of file /etc/X11/xorg.conf or run something like:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

or another one (you will have to answer a few simple questions)
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```


then type
```
exit
```

and select "resume normal boot"

This should get you back to your Ubuntu desktop, but running on default drivers.

---

### Post by Dracu@l on 2009-05-08
> **Legace said:**
> Try this:
 sorry but i dont excactly know what "root shell" option is. (I know, im a n00b, but bare with me please) 
i get to the menu and get 5 different options all say 
Ubuntu 9.04 
the two first ends with 
2.6.28-11-generic
2.6.28-11-generic (recovery mode)
the two after that is the same but version
2.6.27
and the last one is just called 
Ubuntu 9.04, memtest86+
 
the options i get on the 4 first (after pressing e button)
uuid
kernel
initrd
and quiet ( not on recovery) 
wich one should i choose 
or do i have to edit one of the commands in the boot sequence ? 
thanks for helping

---

### Post by Dracu@l on 2009-05-08
never mind got it. THANK YOU

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-08
No prob. Enjoy ;)

---

### Post by cha04039 on 2009-07-17
> **Dracu@l said:**
> never mind got it. THANK YOU

Hi, how did you fix it ?? I have the same problem that you. I've tried everything without a result.

please help me.

---

