---
title: "10.4: Problems with Networking, bind9, and dhcp3"
date: 2010-06-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-06-15
v10.4

{
 I have completely re-edited this thread because I have
 started over fresh.  I am no longer using bind9, but now
 using the installation-defaults nameserver and dhcp and
 trying to get a handle on how things ought to be setup
 properly.  My previous attempts was a disaster.
}

Coming fresh out of a newly installed 10.4, I obviously
was able to get network connectivity but then I ran into
trouble the minute that I tried to change eth0/eth1 connections
via network-manager's applet.  What I found was, that when
I attempted to define static connections, all bets were off.

It seems that once one attempts to change eth0/eth1 which are
wired devices, I was no longer able to recover my network connectivity!

I was however able to setup a wireless connection, so in this
way I was able to get back network (and Internet) connectivity,
and write this thread on this forum.

I notice also, that there is no longer 'Networks' in the
System->Administration menus!  Geez, what the hell is going
on?

Can someone please tell me how to properly configure my static
wired connection?  Networks in 10.4 have really changed alot!
Grr...

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-06-15
To change to a static ip address, go to the IPv4 tab in network manager, select Manual from the method dropdown, then enter your ip address, netmask and gateway, pressing enter after each one. I also enter DNS addresses manually. See the screenshot.

---

### Post by DThurman on 2010-06-16
> **cariboo907 said:**
> To change to a static ip address, go to the IPv4 tab in network manager, select Manual from the method dropdown, then enter your ip address, netmask and gateway, pressing enter after each one. I also enter DNS addresses manually. See the screenshot.

That is exactly what I have done.

And in my case, I have:

1) Attansic L2, on board, NIC chip (Wired)
2) IntelPro PCI NIC (Wired)
3) RT2870 USB (Wireless)

And I am saying it over, and over that this nm tool does NOT work
properly.  Somehow the network devices are getting messed up,
and when I said earlier that I got my networking back over wireless,
it turns out that when I created a new wireless connection (my
wireless USB could not find it's corresponding AP base), what
actually happened is that it restored the WIRED eth1 connection
which was previously disconnected when I attempted to change it
to Manual, from Dhcp which was the default.

I have NOT been able to get a STABLE, POST-CONFIGURATION Network
configured to my specs via the nm applet AT ALL.  Seems that I
will have to bypass the nm-applet and do it all manually and to
make matters worse, the Network applet via System menu is missing.

I notice that the nm applet does not seem to change the
/etc/network/interfaces file, so where does the data get saved?

If anything, I need manual configuration instructions, please,
because I do not think I will be successful with the nm applet tool.

Kind regards,
Dan

---

