---
title: "17.04 and the changes in what 'Files' offers - help !"
date: 2017-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Timmoore001 on 2017-05-02
I like to view directorates and ordinary files as a long list not a bunch of ikons. 

'Files' in 16.04 had this option immediately available by clicking a gadget to right of its window.  

17.04 has no such gadjet.     For me its a serious pain.   It may be capable of it but I've not found it.

Is the any way of installing the '16.04' 'Files' on 17.04 ?

Many thanks in advance,


:  ))

Tim

---

### Post by Tim036 on 2017-05-02
SOLVED


I found 'preferences in the pull down menu and managed to try various options and fixed it.

May I suggest that whoever looks after 'Files' make it a bit more user friendly and add the gadget to the latest version.  Making it less user friendly is not really an advance.

Tim

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-05-02
You are not the first person to see how much nautilus (files) has been simplified, or as some have described it, dumbed down.

Unfortunately for you and those others the development of nautilus is not carried out by Canonical or Ubuntu but by upstream gnome developers, who may or may not take any notice of the comments made by users of this forum as they seldom visit.

You can always make the change to another file-manager for your system, but you should keep nautilus on the system as it is needed for many other purposes than just file management.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-05-02
Please use Thread Tools for marking a thread solved. It will help others find the solution.

---

### Post by Timmoore001 on 2017-05-07
How do I find the 'Thread Tools' ?  I'd be pleased to use them.

update:-  I found the Tools   and used edit    but when I sent it I got a 404 message.....

many thanks for your info...

:  )))

Tim

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-05-07
> **Timmoore001 said:**
> How do I find the 'Thread Tools' ?  I'd be pleased to use them.

Thread Tools menu.. near the top of the page.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]274985[/ATTACH]

---

