---
title: "9.10 internet connection issues"
date: 2009-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tgbmurf on 2009-12-02
running ubuntu karmic (9.10) on a toshiba satellite A100 utilizing ndiswrapper for my wireless hardware, internet is mozilla firefox 3.5.5 .

Problem is my internet lags severely at times, or does not connect to the webpages at all, although my network connection shows 95%+. this happens with commonly used pages as well, such as this forum, google, etc.  

Anyone have any suggestions for the lagging? is it because I require ndiswrapper to use my wireless hardware? or is it the browser itself .......I have win XP as dual on this comp as well and experience NO internet connection issues when in windows with IE8.....

---

### Post by sanctified-x on 2009-12-02
I found that I had that problem too (both Ubuntu and Xubuntu). What I found after a quick Google search was that Karmic appears to use ipv6 now instead of ipv4? I found [this guide]("http://digitizor.com/2009/11/04/ubuntu-karmic-internet-connection-woes-3-ways-to-disable-ipv6/") and did all three. My net is back to being significantly faster with no lags or dropped connections. Try and see if it helps.

---

### Post by tgbmurf on 2009-12-03
seems to be working better for now. Thanks!  I hope they fix that bug in the next update, i just switched from windows to ubuntu and have no regrets so far, but i cant handle not having a stable internet connection!

---

### Post by blues_1pt on 2009-12-09
I already made the two buttom things that you the website told me to, but i'm still not getting acess to internet.
Thanks

---

