---
title: "16.4 updates - things seem to be slowing down; anybody notice this?"
date: 2017-07-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2017-07-07
Anybody having problems with their 16.4 installs slowing down since the last update or two??? Mine is; enough for me to post here. tow internal failures for a couple of months No internal failures. Are they going the wrong way?

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-07-07
If by "slowing down", you mean becoming sluggish or taking more time to open files, to respond to clicks or to keyboard entries, then I'm not seeing any of that.

Can you please provide more contextual information, perhaps some *top* or *htop* output as well?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-07-08
Not seeing any problems here either, though I use Xubuntu not Ubuntu.

What hardware do you have, and what do you mean by "two internal failures"; hardware breakages?

---

### Post by missmoondog on 2017-07-08
lubuntu here and running just as sweet as it was on day of installation! :)

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2017-07-08
The most obvious visible slowdown would be when Chrome is open; currently, 18 tabs; Looking at Facebook - clicking on the notifications drop down box - it drops down as a series of squares then meld together; as I was scrolling through the notifications; the squares containing the content would pixelate up then back 25mm x 25mm size down filling in and disappear and then reappear as I scrolled; which it was not doing before. 

Eventually, over the various base updates, the whole Facebook experience became almost snappy; since the initial install. better than Win 10. This problem event includes loss some of the facebook scrolling snappiness - which is coming back now as well.

My little tablet has lots of snappiness compared to notebooks generally; as a comparison.

A series of small updates have just gone through so this above problem is not currently visible. 

The internal error message showed up twice as I stated before without the "Send a problem report to Ubuntu" 
If you had a way for me to see an error log I would happy to submit it. which is not hardware, 

Ubuntu internal error.

I have a Toshiba notebook a few years old. Works very well with Ubuntu. 

The Htop output is enclosed as the screenshot below.

The sluggishness would not be but could be I would say the processor was less responsive; Don't know;  Longer than usual to process whatever process I'm doing. However, it seems to be less now potentially gone?

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-07-08
I'm running Ubuntu 16.04.2 and running faster then ever, have you considered maybe it's related to a browser issue?  I would check any add-ons  you have there maybe a conflict  with one of them. What are the specs on the Notebook you have?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2017-07-08
Well you've got 18 google-chrome tabs using up the bulk of your memory. Maybe make that 30 tabs & see what happens then.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-07-09
I did try Chromium for a bit but got annoyed with its problems. There are times when it just seems to lose it on startup.  I went back to FF with vertical tabs as I run about 100 tabs.

16.04.2 4.8.0-56

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-07-09
> **Kris_M said:**
> I did try Chromium for a bit but got annoyed with its problems. There are times when it just seems to lose it on startup.  I went back to FF with vertical tabs as I run about 100 tabs.

16.04.2 4.8.0-56
This is not an answer but more of an astouded query;  why on earth does anyone need 100 tabs open in a browser?
What can you possibly need them all for?

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-07-09
I would have to agree with **Ajgreeny,** I can't see having that many tabs open and any given time, This is a good reason for someone to have slowness with a system that can't handle this kind of usage

It's good practice to use only what's needed nothing more to keep things running smooth. Oh and I don't use nothing near that many tabs when on my machine maybe 4 at the most. Sometimes the web browsers are not capable of performing as they should when using that many tabs

I am aware the OP stated he only uses about 18 tabs, but even that many maybe be a problem depending on the systems hardware

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2017-07-10
So I want reply to all of you; The internal failure problem I remember now; I was trying to open a PDF document when the internal error happened; The PDF did not open. 
I remember this to be a very old problem which occurred over the years. 

Yes, I run in the twenties the number of tabs in my Chrome browser, or more even. For me, it's got to do with the technical feeds I get in Facebook where I want to read the item later; then I want to keep the item around to use in my groups that I post to; sometimes it's a series of articles 10+ sort of in the form of a course for the viewing audience. 

To use Hangouts I closed the tabs by printing the files in the tabs as PDF files which shrank the number of open tabs.

If you want to to know how the number of window tabs is impacting your browser in my case Chrome; I call someone using Google hangouts; Some of the tabs run a lot of background stuff; JavaScript for instance; Google Hangouts - sounds like I'm talking to the other person under water in a swimming pool. 

I get around that by logging into the local wifi with FireFox and then open Hangouts only.

I like Google docs but it is a contributor to the problem; I get to finally use the tablet 7" screen to compose documents, then sync them with my notebook. Should you have both open you can see the waiting device updating as I type away.

Since I communicate across the planet I need translation capability Chrome supplies this better than MS Edge; Russian is very terse; Latvian is actually better than Google translate. FireFox does this with the Translate This add-on which sometimes works better than chrome. 

So this system worked well before the complaint then the performance changed to cause my complaint. The processor is a dual core AMD 1.7gighrz with DDR3 6gigs of memory and AMD microcode enabled in the Radion graphics integrated core. You folks will either not notice any slowdown simply because you have more Horsepower;

I see the performance improvement with the coding improvements So everything is OK 

Kris M with her 16 gigs of ram isn't going to really care at all how many tabs she has open; I'm going to guess DDR4 memory So she will not notice any slowdown unless it's really bad. 

So you're storing the pages like me or you don't care. and there is no consequence to the practice. 

That youtube has an impact so I minimized my use of it.

Spotted this item in [http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/06/firefox-54-now-available-in-ubuntu](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/06/firefox-54-now-available-in-ubuntu) Multi-process is disabled in Ubuntu Firefox - this turns it on. 

Everything seems to be Ok for the moment. Thumbs up.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-07-10
Didn't read all the posts here, but if you use a lot of tabs in Chrome. use this extension FooTab. It blocks all the background tab unless you click to open.  It will save you a lot of ram. This feature is built into Firefox and Opera.

---

### Post by Gstrazds on 2017-07-11
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Didn't read all the posts here, but if you use a lot of tabs in Chrome. use this extension FooTab. It blocks all the background tab unless you click to open. It will save you a lot of ram. This feature is built into Firefox and Opera.

Foo tabs works; Thumbs up, also helps prevent redirects to some extent; and I have non-garbled Google hangout phone calls with 18 tabs open - Thankyou.

---

