---
title: "9.10 external microphone doesn't work anymore"
date: 2010-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by roman.lange on 2010-01-14
Update 6th March 2010: **Update to Kernel 2.6.31-20 SOLVED the problem**. Recording works again (still wouldn't in kernels 2.6.31-17 to 2.6.31-19). If a kernel update doesn't solve your problem, please read post 14 on page 2 by Mocha which seems to have solved the problem for other users without updating the kernel

Update 8th February 2010 to Kernel 2.6.31-19 did not solve the problem, please also read post number 7 for more details.

**Quick Conclusion** for other users who might experience the same problem:

After an update to **kernel version 2.6.31-17** in Ubuntu **9.10** Karmic Koala, my external microphone did not work anymore. Playback was possible, just recording would not work anymore, although there was quite some background noise in the headphones. This made it impossible for me to use Skype and/or Sound Recorder.

All the possible solutions offered below did not help in my case (although you might give them a try).

I switched back to kernel version **2.6.31-16** where the problem does not occur.

*Start of original post:*

Output: cat /proc/asound/card0/codec#* | grep Codec

Realtek ALC662 rev1

I know there are lots of threads about this topic, but I have spent hours on this problem already and none of the solutions offered so far worked for me so I decided to start this thread.

I have been using Ubuntu 9.10 and so far, my external microphone worked flawlessly in Skype as well as in Sound Recorder. A few days ago, I received a call on Skype and all the guy on the other side could hear was loud noise. I can only play sound, but not record anymore (i.e. the microphone doesn't work anymore). I tried two different microphones just to be sure whether one was defective and also checked it in Windows (where they both work).

I am not sure what might have caused this problem, I just remember a kernel upgrade about that time (not sure whether this is the reason though). I use 2.6.31-17-generic now.

Here is what I have tried so far:

1) Right-click on the Sound Icon in the top right corner and checked the following: in the hardware tab, it is set to analog stereo duplex, input is set to internal audio analog stereo (no other choice here) and the mic is NOT muted (playing with the volume doesn't help either) and output is set to internal audio analog stereo (again, no other choice) and connector is set to analog output (here I can switch to analog headphones or analog speaker, but makes no difference).

I remember that I could choose between Microphone 1 and Microphone 2 in the input tab; this is somehow magically gone.

2) Installed padevchooser, tried several settings to no avail

3) When I use "alsamixer" (version 1.0.20) in a terminal, Playback>Master is set to 100<>100, Capture is set to 150<>150, lowering and/or playing with these figures doesn't help either.

When I use "alsamixer -Dhw:0" in a terminal, I get the same results as in step four.

4) In Gnome Alsa Mixer, only "Beep" is muted, everything else is set to max. I have Master, Headphon, PCM, Front, Front Mi (x2), Lin, Mic, Mic Boost, Capture (x2, set to record), Beep, Speaker

I have tried to mute/unmute different setting to no avail. Now I wonder why I have two Front Mi and two Capture entries. This is different than it used to be, might this be causing the problem?

5) Fiddling with Pulse Audio Volume Control didn't help either.

6) Had a look at "paman" (pulse audio manager), not sure whether I should change anything here.

7) Installed "linux-backports-modules-alsa-karmic-generic" and rebooted as recommended in several threads, did not help either.

8) Added the parameters "model=auto" and "probe_mask=1" to '/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf', did not work, so I deleted the entries again (hint from [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-media/+bug/467636](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-media/+bug/467636), see post 5)


Now I am at my wits end. I need my microphone to work, especially for Skype, otherwise I have to switch to Windows every time I receive or want to make a call which is definitely not a long-term solution?

Does anybody have an idea what might be causing this problem? As I said, it used to work flawlessly just a few days ago and now I don't even know what I should do next to make it work again...

Output of "amixer"

Simple mixer control 'Master',0
  Capabilities: pvolume pswitch pswitch-joined
  Playback channels: Front Left - Front Right
  Limits: Playback 0 - 65536
  Mono:
  Front Left: Playback 30419 [46%] [on]
  Front Right: Playback 30419 [46%] [on]
Simple mixer control 'Capture',0
  Capabilities: cvolume cswitch cswitch-joined
  Capture channels: Front Left - Front Right
  Limits: Capture 0 - 65536
  Front Left: Capture 29275 [45%] [on]
  Front Right: Capture 29275 [45%] [on]

When I run "alsactl init" I get the following result which might be at least a part of the problem, but I wouldn't know how to solve this problem:

Unknown hardware: "HDA-Intel" "Realtek ALC662 rev1" "HDA:10ec0662,103c303a,00100101" "0x103c" "0x303a"
Hardware is initialized using a guess method

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-01-14
I believe it relates to your kernel upgrade. Downgrade the kernel and report back. Look for the older kernel in [Synaptic Package Manager]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synaptic_package_manager").

---

### Post by roman.lange on 2010-01-14
Thank you for your fast answer! You were absolutely right, it was a kernel problem. Fortunately I still had the old kernels on my system. The one that works best is 2.6.31-16-generic

When I start "gnome-volume-control" in this kernel, I can set the hardware tab to "analog stereo duplex", the input to Microphone 1 (which I couldn't choose anymore in 2.6.31-17) and the output to "internal audio analog stereo, analog output". Works like a charm again. I still wonder what causes this problem in 2.6.31-17 (bug or major change?)

One minor hiccup: volume was **muted on every startup**. This could be solved by reading post #4 by n.hinton in this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8342636](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8342636)

a) Open a terminal
b) sudo gedit /etc/init.d/alsa-utils
c) comment out the line that contains 'mute_and_zero_levels "$TARGET_CARD" || EXITSTATUS=1' in the file /etc/init.d/alsa-utils (it was line 378 on my system, just add # to make that line a comment, that's it)
d) save and reboot

My final question: when I boot up my computer, the 2.6.31-17 kernel is set to default of course. I would like to get rid of it as I can't use it anyway but I am reluctant to do so; I have never deleted a kernel before and don't want to destroy my system (especially because it is running again now).

I have already deleted linux-headers-2.6.31-17-generic in Synaptic, but when I mark linux-image-2.6.31-17-generic to be removed, it wants to delete the following files too:

linux-backports-modules-alsa-2.6.31.17-generic
linux-backports-modules-alsa-karmic-generic
linux-generic
linux-image-generic

I guess the first two shouldn't cause a problem, but what about linux-generic and linux-image-generic? Am I doing this the wrong way? If so, how do I safely get rid of that kernel? Do I also have to manually update GRUB afterwards? Sorry for the questions, as I mentioned this is my first time to remove a kernel and I'd rather like to be on the safe side.

Thank you for your time and help!

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-01-15
Have a look at [this page]("http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/debian-redhat-linux-delete-kernel-command/") and scroll down to the instructions regarding the Debian/Ubuntu solution.

I tried and remove an older kernel a few minutes ago from my own system using dselect. For you it would be using the Synaptic Package Manager. It was automatically removed from the GRUB boot menu.

---

### Post by roman.lange on 2010-01-15
Thanks again for your answer!

Funny enough, "dpkg --list | grep kernel-image" doesn't give me any output in the terminal. I suppose this is because I had already deleted "linux-headers-2.6.31-17-generic" as mentioned in my last post.

Well, I guess it is not worth fiddling around with this issue for hours which might even lead to destroying an otherwise running system. Maybe the next kernel version will not cause the microphone problem either; I will give it a try (and report back, **see post number 7**), otherwise I will stick to 2.6.31-16 for now.

I marked this thread as "unsolved" again as the microphone problem still exists in kernel 2.6.31-17 and 2.6.31-19.

Thanks for your time and help, khelben1979!

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-01-15
> **roman.lange said:**
> Thanks for your time and help, khelben1979!

Thanks!

---

### Post by roman.lange on 2010-02-07
Update to Kernel **2.6.31-19** did not solve the problem!

I still cannot use my external microphone although I have tried every method mentioned in my first post again. The only difference to Kernel 2.6.31-17: I do not get loud noise when I try to play back something I have just "recorded" (i.e. now I just hear nothing at all). Normal playback of audio files still works fine.

I am at my wits end: I tried padevchooser, alsamixer, pulse audio volume control and cannot find a solution to make my microphone work again, just like it miraculously does with Kernel 2.6.31-16.

I just hope that this issue will be fixed soon and not be ported to Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx, otherwise I will have to stay with kernel 2.6.31-16 and wait until the problem magically disappears or I find a solution to this problem (although I do not know what I could try anymore).

Do other people also encounter this problem? Has anybody found a solution or any idea about what could be going on here?

---

### Post by chucksters on 2010-02-12
I have the exact same problem. I tried everything you did (except the kernel thing because I don't know what that means).  I'm running an Acer AspireOne D150.... Microphone works ONLY in Analog Stereo Input mode but that's worthless in Skype because I can't hear anything.

---

### Post by mocha on 2010-02-13
I just replaced a motherboard that died and the new motherboard had the ALC662 and I was having these same problems with the mics and line-in.  I solved it by _UNINSTALLING_ linux-backports-modules-alsa... which reverted Alsa back to 1.0.20 instead of 1.0.22.1 which is the backport version.

---

### Post by chucksters on 2010-02-13
I also fixed the problem with this relatively easy tip:  "Most built-in mics are mono. The default setting on the Input Control is to lock the R&L channel together. By reading the mono mic as stereo, PulseAudio cancels the input. Click on the middle button on the upper right of the control panel to unlock the R&L channel. Move either the left or right channel to 10 leaving the other channel about 90. You should now see the VU meter sensing sound. Now try Skype again."   Although my solution may have been a combination of things I tried prior to this, this last step finalized things for me

---

### Post by mocha on 2010-02-18
> **chucksters said:**
> I also fixed the problem with this relatively easy tip:  "Most built-in mics are mono. The default setting on the Input Control is to lock the R&L channel together. By reading the mono mic as stereo, PulseAudio cancels the input. Click on the middle button on the upper right of the control panel to unlock the R&L channel. Move either the left or right channel to 10 leaving the other channel about 90. You should now see the VU meter sensing sound. Now try Skype again."   Although my solution may have been a combination of things I tried prior to this, this last step finalized things for me

And this is with linux-backports-modules-alsa (1.0.22.1) installed?  What about your line-in?  Does it work?  It's a stereo input.

On another topic, do you find your ALC662 to have lots of internal noise?  Compared with other motherboards and codecs, my ALC662 has a lot of background noise on the line-in.  It's probably the motherboard design.

---

### Post by chucksters on 2010-02-20
Sorry, not sure what Linux backports are. I do get some background noise but nothing major. My AspireOne doesn;t have a line-in, just a  1/8" microphone input which I've had no need to test. The internal mic works fine, though

I hope you get yours working. I know how frustrating it is

---

### Post by chucksters on 2010-02-21
Oh Jesus... I just realized this thread is about EXternal microphones. Very sorry to waste your time.

---

### Post by mocha on 2010-02-25
If the OP is still following this thread, can you please try the following options in your alsa-base.conf file.  These seem to fix the issue for me.

options snd-hda-intel power_save=0 power_save_controller=N position_fix=1 enable=yes

I think the real key here is the position_fix=1 option.

---

### Post by dihucar on 2010-03-02
[Mocha]("http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=163982"),

Thanks a lot, this one was the only solution. I tried everything, but only this solved the issue.

Thanks a lot,

Dihucar

---

### Post by mocha on 2010-03-02
> **dihucar said:**
> [Mocha]("http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=163982"),

Thanks a lot, this one was the only solution. I tried everything, but only this solved the issue.

Thanks a lot,

Dihucar

You're welcome.  What sound hardware do you have?

---

### Post by roman.lange on 2010-03-06
> **mocha said:**
> If the OP is still following this thread, can you please try the following options in your alsa-base.conf file.  These seem to fix the issue for me.

options snd-hda-intel power_save=0 power_save_controller=N position_fix=1 enable=yes

I think the real key here is the position_fix=1 option.

Hi Mocha,

thank you for your answer and possible solution! 

For me, an update to kernel **2-6-31-20-generic** made the problem go away so far.

Recording still wouldn't work with kernels 2-6-31-17, 2-6-31-18 and 2-6-31-19 (still works in 2-6-31-16 though).

I don't know what exactly made the problem go away, but they seem to have fixed this bug in kernel 2-6-31-20.

So we have two possible solutions for this problem:

1) Update your kernel to 2-6-31-20-generic

2) Try Mocha's solution in alsa-base.conf file mentioned above

I hope this thread helps other people who encounter this rather annoying problem in the last few kernels.

I will report back should the problem appear again.

---

### Post by imwithid on 2010-04-18
> **mocha said:**
> If the OP is still following this thread, can you please try the following options in your alsa-base.conf file.  These seem to fix the issue for me.

options snd-hda-intel power_save=0 power_save_controller=N position_fix=1 enable=yes

I think the real key here is the position_fix=1 option.

JFC, it works!!! I've tried everything (fiddling with PulseAudio, Sound > Preferences > trial and error combinations with all ports, etc)!!!!

What gives with Ubuntu? I've been giving it my best to convert from Windows since 7.04 with steady improvements but since 8.10, it's been garbage. Perhaps the bi-annual releases should end and instead the focus on improvements to function and stability be primary. I've had problems with USB transfer rates, video problems, memory management problems, random reboots, etc.!

Great job on the fix, Mocha!

---

### Post by dangmc on 2010-04-25
> **imwithid said:**
> JFC, it works!!! I've tried everything (fiddling with PulseAudio, Sound > Preferences > trial and error combinations with all ports, etc)!!!!

What gives with Ubuntu? I've been giving it my best to convert from Windows since 7.04 with steady improvements but since 8.10, it's been garbage. Perhaps the bi-annual releases should end and instead the focus on improvements to function and stability be primary. I've had problems with USB transfer rates, video problems, memory management problems, random reboots, etc.!

Great job on the fix, Mocha!

I agree wholeheartedly with this: Nothing that works without a lot of configuring since 8.10! I've been using Ubuntu since June 2006,and in my opinion this gets worse after every release. I would like to see maybe a 2 tier system used for OS upgrades: 1 year cycle for those of us who just need things to work, 6mos. for those who like to test, play around with, etc. I have high hopes for Lucid-I'm now using 10.04 RC-no microphone! I've tried all the fixes listed above w/out any success. Thank you for letting me sound off.
alsactl init:$ alsactl init
Unknown hardware: "HDA-Intel" "VIA ID 4441" "HDA:11064441,104383d0,00100100" "0x1043" "0x8375"
Hardware is initialized using a guess method

$ cat /proc/asound/card0/codec#* | grep Codec
Codec: VIA ID 4441

$ sudo /sbin/alsa reload
lsof: WARNING: can't stat() fuse.gvfs-fuse-daemon file system /home/dangmc/.gvfs
      Output information may be incomplete.
/sbin/alsa: Warning: Processes using sound devices: 1842(pulseaudio). 
Unloading ALSA sound driver modules: snd-seq-dummy snd-seq-oss snd-seq-midi snd-rawmidi snd-seq-midi-event snd-seq snd-seq-device snd-pcm-oss snd-mixer-oss snd-hda-codec-via snd-hda-intel snd-hda-codec snd-hwdep snd-pcm snd-timer snd-page-alloc (failed: modules still loaded: snd-hda-intel snd-hda-codec snd-hwdep snd-pcm snd-timer snd-page-alloc).
Loading ALSA sound driver modules: snd-seq-dummy snd-seq-oss snd-seq-midi snd-rawmidi snd-seq-midi-event snd-seq snd-seq-device snd-pcm-oss snd-mixer-oss snd-hda-codec-via snd-hda-intel snd-hda-codec snd-hwdep snd-pcm snd-timer snd-page-alloc.


mobo: asus p7p55d-e
proc: intel i5-750
ram:g-skill ddr3 1600 pc3-12800x2 (4gz.)
gpu: bfg 9800gt (the power saver one)
hdd western digital caviar black 1tb.
zalman cnps9900 heatsink
winxpro/10.04 rc
btw-audio works fine:confused:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/574504?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/574504?comments=all)

---

