---
title: "11.04 Upgrade stuck"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Slench on 2011-04-28
as the title says the upgrading process appears stuck...
it has said "about 6 minutes remaining" for over an hour now at"installing upgrades", more specifically at "configuring gnome-power-manager"

touchpad and keyboard unresponsive
should I worry? or just wait?

also, the capslock indicator LED is blinking


computer is an HP Pavilion dv6500
from either 2007 or 2008 (don't remember)
has an AMD Turion 64 x2 processor, but was always used as a 32 bit...
and an nVidia N-Force Graphics card of unknown number.

---

### Post by techunit on 2011-04-28
Likely your upgrade experienced problems. I really hope you backed up before you did this. If you did you can pretty easily just cancel and do a clean install.

---

### Post by Slench on 2011-04-28
> **techunit said:**
> Likely your upgrade experienced problems. I really hope you backed up before you did this. If you did you can pretty easily just cancel and do a clean install.

I didn't have anything super important on it anyways...

with the exception of that ONE software I wrote...

ah well...

I'll wait another couple of hours, if nothing I'll do a clean install...

btw how do I cancel if nothing is responsive? I don't want to corrupt anything on it...

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-28
To upgrade from the ISO, you can select that option when installing from the LiveCD/LiveUSB:

[IMG]http://img848.imageshack.us/img848/874/upgradetonatty.png[/IMG]


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by bamu on 2011-04-28
> **Slench said:**
> as the title says the upgrading process appears stuck...
it has said "about 6 minutes remaining" for over an hour now at"installing upgrades", more specifically at "configuring gnome-power-manager"

touchpad and keyboard unresponsive
should I worry? or just wait?

also, the capslock indicator LED is blinking

I had the same problem, it got stuck at udisks update or something.

Anyway, I rebooted the system and restarted the "Update Manager". I got a message the previous upgrade wasn't completed and suggested to do partial upgrade. 

This time it didn't get stuck at the udisks update and upgrade completed succesfully.

---

### Post by KegHead on 2011-04-28
Hi!

I heard the servers are overwhelmed.

Chatter on the net is saying try back maybe a day later.

KegHead

---

