---
title: ".RUN files"
date: 2006-04-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dutchbull on 2006-04-17
How To Install .run files? does anyone know that?? :)

---

### Post by vbmaster on 2006-04-17
$ sudo ./file.run


Does this work?

---

### Post by Dutchbull on 2006-04-17
command not found... so doesnt work :( another idea?

---

### Post by xXx 0wn3d xXx on 2006-04-17
[QUOTE=Dutchbull]command not found... so doesnt work :( another idea?[/QUOTE]
Make sure that you are in the directory of that file and you have the permissions to execute it. Right click it and go under permissions and check the "Execute" box.

---

### Post by vbmaster on 2006-04-17
[QUOTE=Dutchbull]command not found... so doesnt work :( another idea?[/QUOTE]

You have to be in the folder in which the file is.

---

### Post by PriceChild on 2006-04-17
Try

```

cd <<path to file>>
sudo sh <<name of file including .run>>
```

---

### Post by threethirty on 2006-04-18
I just double click them, i thought that was the idea of them

---

### Post by Iandefor on 2006-04-18
You can double-click them and install them that way, or you can open up a terminal and enter
```

sudo sh [path to script]
``` The path to the script (if it's on the desktop) should be something like 
```

/home/[username]/Desktop/[name of script]
```

---

### Post by Dutchbull on 2006-04-18
[QUOTE=vbmaster]You have to be in the folder in which the file is.[/QUOTE]

im not that stupid :P
but it was sh ./filename.run

tnx

---

### Post by banadushi on 2006-04-18
[QUOTE=Dutchbull]command not found... so doesnt work :( another idea?[/QUOTE]

If you run

```

$ file /path/to/file.run

```

it will tell you what kind of file it is and if it is a text file, what language it is written in.

Since you are getting command not found, I would bet that the interpreter in the file is set wrong or not installed on your system.  If the output of file is something other than a binary run

```

$ head /path/to/file.run

```

The first line should look like

```

#!/path/to/interpreter

```

when you run this file, what happens is the shell, usually bash, looks at the first line for the #! and then runs the file as an argument to the interpreter for that file.  So lets just say out file is /home/user/foo.run, and the first line in it is #!/usr/bin/bar.

When run, the system will run the command `/usr/bin/bar /home/user/foo.run`.  Since you are getting command not found, this is why I think the interpreter of the file is not found on your system.

If this is all greek, just post the output to

```

$ file /path/to/file.run
$ head /path/to/file.run
$ ls -la `head -1 /path/to/file.run|cut -d\! -f2|cut -d|cut -d\  -f1`

```

Have a good one!

Jason

---

