---
title: "9.10 network icon changed"
date: 2009-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wrgb2 on 2009-10-31
I just updated to 9.10, and the network icon in the notification area has changed to an ugly black thing - it looks like it maybe is supposed to be an Ethernet jack or maybe it's just a black outline of the previous network card, but anyway it's ugly.  Anybody else seeing this and know how I can get the old icon back?

As a side note, by boot sequence is all messed up -- I get messages several times during boot, and at one time I get a blank screen with blinking cursor.  The boot time is actaully SLOWER than Jaunty was.  Anyone else seeing these things?

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-10-31
Ha! I call it the "Network Manager Noodle o' Loathing".

Then I install wicd and remove network-manager.

I have no idea why the Ubuntu team likes Network Manager... It sucks roadkill mandrill in my humble opinion.

Karmic has been slower for me only on systems with an external USB drive connected at boot time. Noticeably slower than Jaunty.

Workaround: don't make Karmic check slow devices during boot and Karmic won't boot slowly. Not very useful, I know.

My boot time on my desktop system is 17 seconds, beating XP, Jaunty, Vista, Win7, and CentOS 5.

This laptop (gateway FX2311 modded with T9500 CPU) boots Karmic in 32 seconds. Vista64 Ultimate takes around 50 seconds, depending on whether it's "Configuring Updates Stage 3 of 3 Please Wait" (standard Vista boot screen).

---

### Post by wrgb2 on 2009-10-31
Thanks, that's looks much better.  I'm not running any USB drives, and boot is still slower than Jaunty.  Also, I thought the new boot process was supposed to be "prettier", I'm getting messages and blank screens I didn't get in Jaunty.

Thanks again,
Randy

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-01
Mine boots fast but yeah, it's not very pretty.

I installed kubuntu-desktop (so I have choices) and that will install the usual Kubuntu Knight Rider usplash theme.

I couldn't give a dead mandrill's behind for the aesthetics of the boot sequence though: it's what it does after the boot that's important. ;)

---

### Post by joxl on 2009-11-02
> **wrgb2 said:**
> I just updated to 9.10, and the network icon in the notification area has changed to an ugly black thing - it looks like it maybe is supposed to be an Ethernet jack or maybe it's just a black outline of the previous network card, but anyway it's ugly.  Anybody else seeing this and know how I can get the old icon back?

I noticed the same thing when I updated to from Jaunty to Karmic.  When I went into the theme manager (System -> Preferences -> Appearance, Theme tab) I noticed that "New Wave" (that's what I had been using in Jaunty) was no longer selected.  Instead I was currently using a theme called "Custom".  Switching to "New Wave" fixed the icon for me.

Note: the icon is still not the same as Jaunty, the theme has changed a bit, but it's better than that ugly black hole ;).  Also keep in mind, when you select a new theme and exit the Appearance Manager, the "Custom" theme will be removed (it was for me anyway).  You might not want to try this if you've manually tweaked your theme.

---

