---
title: "10.4 hibernate issue leads to no booting"
date: 2010-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Zafos on 2010-11-17
[B]Sometimes when I hibernated it worked, other times when I'd try to boot I'd get a blackscreen after grub(suspend always works perfectly). Then I'd close the laptop via button and when I reloaded, it was like I had shutdown.
Now this happened again, only this time it doesn't boot no matter how many times I manually shutdown. Note that I have 64 bit AMD cpu.[/B]
I also have nvidia graphics cars and this has been causing some issues on startup as well. Before loads, some weird colors show up for a very little while.
So, I decided to w8 it out and what happened is, I got to see what these weird colors were! Each letter shows up as a weird colored block. At 1st some sentences are shown. The screen is also duplicated vertically. This means that it's like two screens side by side showing the same thing. Then these same sentences appear again and again(I can tell they're the same by the way they look as a whole). I can write during this procedure, but to no response from the system.
Then the ubuntu logo shows up, in same duplicate style, and while it's weird colored it's distinguishable, as is the loading bar below, which seems to be loading ubuntu...only forever(I've left it there for hours(it also took some to get that screen) and nothing happens).

Somewhere in these forums I've seen some1 mentioning that u should press alt+F1 or alt+ctrl+F1 and then enter ur username, then ur password, when a sudo sth to load the xserver and get rid of the weird graphics, which are cause because the xserver hasn't loaded yet. When I press alt+F1 in the ubuntu loading screen, it takes me back to the previous 1. Then whatever I press stops the sentences from generating endlessly if I also press enter. I get no response, however, by entering username, password, or that sudo command(it was sudo kdpg-reconfigure xserver-xorg I think).

**What I gather from this all, is that for some reason hibernate fails, only this time it left a residue on disk that cause the system not to boot.** I've read somewhere else on these forums, that if the partition is smaller than ur RAM, then the latter's contents can't be saved on disk and hibernate/suspend fail. I had no problem with suspend ever though...
**If there is such a residue on my disk causing problems, on what folder is it in and what exactly should I delete?** I have access through my windows 7 on my other hard disk, through a program.

Please help, I have a project pending and it's a fing B+ tree @_@

**EDIT**: I'm not sure I have 10.4, that's what I had updated from karmic koala, but since then I've always clicked installed updates when prompted, without noticing what they are.

**EDIT:** Some more googling revealed that other users with the same problem fixed it, by pressing "e" in default option of grub. Then u have to replace "quiet" and "splash" with "no_console_suspend" in the line, which starts with "kernel". That line started with "linux" for me and after replacing and booting, I still got the same results as before...

_**EDIT:**_ In these forums I found some1 with a very similar problem. He had fixed it, by formatting the linux-swap partition, via live cd, gparted program. I did the same,though **I used a karmic koala cd **and it didn't work. _**Then I realized that there was no ubuntu partition!!**_ I had an ext4 partition that was most of my hardrive and 5 giga for an extended. In the net I saw that extended should include the linux-swap logical partition, as well as an ext4 one(where ubuntu is installed) and some unallocated data. _**I only had linux-swap! **_What the **** hapenned? Obviously ext4 and unallocated data must have been there before, cause ubuntu worked. _**Did they get deleted somehow when I hibernated?**_ How in the world could sth like that happen? _**Is now a new install the only way to go?**** Could I install ubuntu again, without formatting my hard disk(like deleting the extended partition or sth)?**_ What did I do to deserve this?
_**EDIT:**_ I had found somewhere on the net, that the logical partition that was missing, the 1 with ubuntu installed in it, had the home folder in there. This seems pretty logical. _**But how come gparted doesn't show me the partition, but windows program I use to view ubuntu hard drive sees it? I even copied a file from there to windows.**_ It is apparent that sth fishy is going on here,sth that could maybe be solved without a clean install(which would be really inconvenient to say the least for me). Plz help!
EDIT: I downloaded ubuntu 10.10 in a cd and that versions gparted also shows a small size of unallocated data in the hard drive...right now I am performing a disk check on my main partition.
EDIT: Disk check completed successfully.

---

### Post by Zafos on 2010-11-20
After disk check, the system booted, but very slowly and now it's laggy and many things don't work. Starting a new thread and marking this as solved, as I managed to boot and I think this may be more of a simple hibernate issue.

---

