---
title: "14.04 resume after suspension problem"
date: 2014-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AlexToind on 2014-04-24
Hello everybody, I can't understand what is happening to my Ubuntu everytime I resume after suspension and I hope someone could help me. I apologize for my bad english...


First of all, I've been using Ubuntu on this laptop/tablet (Fujitsu T901) since 12.10 and what I'm gonna tell you has never happened to me. 
Everytime I suspend, closing the lid or just clicking on suspend button, all seems to work correctly when I resume: it restores my session with all windows and programs previously opend and they continue to do their job; keyboard is ok, and mouse apparently too (I can see the cursor and I can interact with it).


Problems start when I maximize a window (already opened or a new one): from that moment, everything continue to work correctly but the mouse. I can move it but I can't interact with nothing! Can't minimize or restore windows, neither select files or create folders. Nothing! But, I repeat, all programs continue their jobs without any problem and I can manage them using keyboard that works well (also inside windows and folders).


So, what to do? I've tried and tried and I discovered that I can click only the try icons in the top bar of Unity (not the dash on the left which still appears when I move the mouse over it). After interacting with one of the system try icons like the sound one, the system give me back the entire control of the mouse and I can use it as I want till I maximize again a window... Everytime I maximize it'll capture the pointing device (also the pen and touchscreen don't work) and release it only after I click one of the try icons.


So I've thought that could be Nautilus problem: I've kill it with "nautilus -q" comand and restart it but the problem still happening. Only terminating the session (ctrl+alt+backspace), or restarting the system will bring back to normally...


How can I discover more details to understand better what is happening?


Summarize:

[LIST]
[*]problem has never happened before 14.04 on the same laptop
[*]problem starts after resume from suspension when maximizing a window
[*]seems to be related to Nautilus (can't interact with windows and desktop but try icons in the top bar are ok)
[*]click on any of the try icons in the top bar resolves temporanely the problem (until remaximizing any window)
[/LIST]


Thanks you for any suggestion!
-Alessandro

---

### Post by AlexToind on 2014-04-30
The problem persist... Few updates:


- I've noticed that if I close the folder or window that has begun the stuck than it temporarily resolves, as if I click on system try icons. 
- New window open -> new block after some clicks.
- It is not necessary to maximize. After few clicks, sometimes just one, it stucks.
- Everything continue to work well with keyboard, as I'm using it right now.
- It has never happened on the first start of pc, but only after suspension and session restoration.


Any ideas?

Thanks
-Alessandro

---

### Post by matteo-dagord on 2014-08-28
> **AlexToind said:**
> The problem persist... Few updates:


- I've noticed that if I close the folder or window that has begun the stuck than it temporarily resolves, as if I click on system try icons. 
- New window open -> new block after some clicks.
- It is not necessary to maximize. After few clicks, sometimes just one, it stucks.
- Everything continue to work well with keyboard, as I'm using it right now.
- It has never happened on the first start of pc, but only after suspension and session restoration.


Any ideas?

Thanks
-Alessandro

Same, identical problem here.
Have you solved it?

---

### Post by AlexToind on 2014-08-28
No... I'm sorry.

Please, write in this post if you find a solution!

---

