---
title: ".bin file"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wombil on 2009-01-11
Good Morning,
I have just downloaded Google Earth to desktop but cannot open or install it.When trying to open I get the mesage:-
"Could'nt display 'home/user/desktop/Google Earth Linux.bin'
There is no application installed for this file type".
Any help to fix this greatly appreciated.
wombil.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-01-11
Open a terminal, and type these commands one at a time:

 cd Desktop

 chmod a+x GoogleEarthLinux.bin

 sudo ./GoogleEarthLinux.bin

 When the installer is finished, and asks if you want to start the program or quit, choose quit.

---

### Post by wombil on 2009-01-11
Thanks olddos2er,I managed to ger the google earth icon on the applications list but when I click to open it ,it goes to the opening page of google earth and then restarts the machine,user name and password to start up again.
This is the newest version of google earth,mabe I'll try the previous version.

---

### Post by andresmh on 2009-01-11
Try running Google Earth from the command line as it will probably give you a more useful error than just rebooting. 

Actually, you might want to redirect all the output of the command-line call to a file so you can check it later. 

You can try something like:

```
google-earth-command  2>&1 output.txt
```

Replace google-earth-command for whatever the real command is.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-01-11
Google Earth requires you to use a 3d graphics capable video card.

---

