---
title: "9.10 and set a default sound card"
date: 2009-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pablo79 on 2009-10-18
Dear all, I have a integrated sound card and a pci. By default the integrated one is selected but I want to use the pci one. I was used to set a different default with asound but this command is no more presents. What I can do to make the pci card the default? Thank you all in advance,
   Pablo

---

### Post by Dark9204 on 2009-10-18
I had the same problem before. The best way to solve it is to blacklist / disable the integrated one.

Please follow this guide: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=629391](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=629391)

---

### Post by pablo79 on 2009-10-19
Thank you Dark9204, the workaround you suggested me works perfectly.

But in this way it is not possible to use the onboard card for a different use, in my case for example I used the pci linked to the hi-fi and the onboard with the headphone/microphone for skype.
It's very strange that they removed a command and that they didn't replace with a similar one.

So, I thank you very much because you give me the solution to use again the htpc for it's main functions but I continue to look for a solution like asound.

Pablo

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-19
install pavucontrol. Then I believe in apps > sound and video > pulseaudio volume control you can select the audio card to use

---

### Post by pablo79 on 2009-10-19
I've already pavucontrol installed but when I try to run it gives me the message connection refused and when I click on ok it closes.

---

