---
title: "Error message &quot;fsck.ext2: Bad magic number in super-block&quot; on xfs system in focal"
date: 2023-09-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dhanushka121 on 2023-09-07
When I am running some puppet scripts I am getting this error on Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal)
[HTML]
systemd[1]: Started File System Check Daemon to report status.systemd-fsck[2458]: fsck.ext2: Bad magic number in super-block while trying to open /dev/nvme3n1
systemd-fsck[2458]: /dev/nvme3n1:
systemd-fsck[2458]: The superblock could not be read or does not describe a valid ext2/ext3/ext4
systemd-fsck[2458]: filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2/ext3/ext4
systemd-fsck[2458]: filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock
systemd-fsck[2458]: is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
systemd-fsck[2458]:     e2fsck -b 8193 <device>
systemd-fsck[2458]:  or
ip-172-29-2-203 systemd-fsck[2458]:     e2fsck -b 32768 <device>
systemd-fsck[2455]: fsck failed with exit status 8. systemd-fsck[2455]: Ignoring error.[/HTML]

But my file system is xfs. So I want to know why it's happening ? On xenial it won't give these kind of issues. Any help would be much appreciated.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2023-09-07
See
man fsck
fsck is for the ext2, ext3 & ext4 family of formats.

I do not use xfs, but expect it has its own set of file tools.

Found this, it looks like fsck has a add in for xfs.
**fsck.xfs**

---

### Post by dhanushka121 on 2023-09-07
Yes, I saw that. But I am not sure why fsck.ext2 is using on xfs file system. Do you know why is that?
This is my /etc/fstab details
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]# HEADER: This file was autogenerated at 2023-09-07 03:16:20 +0000[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]# HEADER: by puppet.  While it can still be managed manually, it[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]# HEADER: is definitely not recommended.[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]LABEL=cloudimg-rootfs	/	ext4	defaults,discard	0	1[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]LABEL=UEFI	/boot/efi	vfat	umask=0077	0	1[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]/dev/xvdb	/mnt	xfs	nofail,nouuid,nodiratime,relatime,logbufs=8,logbsize=32k	0	1[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]/dev/xvdn	/vol/backup-ebs	xfs	nofail,nouuid,nodiratime,relatime,logbufs=8,logbsize=32k	0	0[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]/dev/xvdm	/vol/ebs1	xfs	nofail,nouuid,nodiratime,relatime,logbufs=8,logbsize=32k,allocsize=2M	0	0[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]/vol/ebs1/ssl	/etc/ssl	none	rw,bind,nodev	0	0[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-09-07
For a XFS filesystem-- Why are you not using 'xfs_check' ([https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/en/man8/xfs_check.8.html](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/en/man8/xfs_check.8.html))

---

### Post by dhanushka121 on 2023-09-08
Actually I don't have nay idea about how to reconfigure the file system checks to use xfs_check or **fsck.xfs**? Anyone know how to do that? I think the If i set the 6th field to 1 it should automatically pickup the underlaying file system and invoke the relavent fsck oeration. In my case it should be fsck.xfs. right? Is there any way how can I reconfigure the fstab to not perform file scans?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-09-08
<<Correction>>
I fixed the link to the man page for xfs_check, but then noticed this tidbit:
```

       Note that using xfs_check is NOT recommended. Please use xfs_repair -n instead, for better
       scalability and speed.

```
RE: [https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/en/man8/xfs_repair.8.html](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/en/man8/xfs_repair.8.html)

And found this article for you: [https://www.thegeekdiary.com/running-repairs-on-xfs-filesystems/](https://www.thegeekdiary.com/running-repairs-on-xfs-filesystems/)

---

### Post by dhanushka121 on 2023-09-08
yes I can do that. But I want to know why it's still checking the ext2 type files systems instead of xfs file systems. Is it related to systemd-fsck scan ?

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-09-08
Possibly because the default installed filesystem for Linux is usually ext4. When you use fsck, it is a frontend to the fsck.fstype tools, it's default is to assume ext4. For other-than ext4, you can specificy tools such as: fsck.ext2, fsck.ext3, e2fsck, cramfsck, fsck.minix, fsck.msdos, fsck.jfs, fsck.nfs, fsck.vfat, fsck.xfs, fsck.xiafs, reiserfsck... Which are all part of the same utility toolset. 

As the front-end for that toolset, the man page reads as if it would choose the underlying tools. I have never used it like that from the command line. I have always used the underlying tools. I don't really see an option in mna page fsck to specify which underlying tool to choose(?) 

When it is invoked from /etc/fstab/ from the filechecker fsck order field (field #6), I am guessing that it determines which filetype tool to use from fstab, by looking at the filetype field, which say what filetype the mount is...

---

