---
title: "Can 20.10 be installed on an exFAT USB stick?"
date: 2020-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ping-wu on 2020-12-16
Has anyone successfully installed Ubuntu 20.10 (5.8 kernel) on an  exFAT USB stick?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-12-16
> **ping-wu said:**
> Has anyone successfully installed Ubuntu 20.10 (5.8 kernel) on an  exFAT USB stick?

No, if by "installed" you mean a normal installation. What file system is there actually doesn't matter because the installer will remove all partition and create all the required ones with the default FAT32 for ESP and EXT4 (or another compatible file system like chosen by the user) for root.

However, if by "installed" you mean a bootable installation media, it depends. If using any DD dependent tool, again, the original file system doesn't matter because it'll be replaced by a "CD/DVD file system".

The only case where it may be possible to use exFAT is with scripts like Multisystem that create a multi-boot from several ISOs with a boot menu to select from. Those typically use and expect FAT32 but if the proper exFAT support is installed, who knows? They might work the same way than with FAT32.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2020-12-16
**exFAT ISO boot USB**

1) Flash USB with mkusb-ISO-Boot-Template: [https://phillw.net/isos/linux-tools/uefi-n-bios/mkusb_grub-boot-template-for-uefi-n-bios_use-in-wins.img.xz](https://phillw.net/isos/linux-tools/uefi-n-bios/mkusb_grub-boot-template-for-uefi-n-bios_use-in-wins.img.xz)

2) Format unpartitioned space as exFAT. (Windows Disk Management)

3) Copy Ubuntu ISO to exFAT partition and rename to ubuntu.iso.


**Oops! Edit required.**

Creating a flash drive per above made it to the Ubuntu spinning wheel.

Then I got a message to reboot into Windows and run **chkdsk /r**

I think Ubuntu does not like exFAT.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2020-12-17
Yes, just install it like normal to removable media.  You can install to USB media or SD media.  Just don’t ever remove it again - put some sticky tape over it.

Once installed, the filesystem will not be exFAT anymore.

Many embedded systems run like that, eg Raspberry Pi.

---

