---
title: "11.04 White Menu Flickering"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mixim on 2011-04-28
Hello guys, Am I the only one experiencing a kind of white flicker in all menus in 11.04. 

Check out the video:
[[COLOR="Blue"]LINK TO VIDEO[/COLOR]]("http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2552010/Forum/out-2.ogv")

It maybe a bit exaggerated in the video, but still noticeable in real life.

I think i have all drivers installed since its running unity 3d, flash is running smoothly and so on. Anybody else see this? How do I test if all settings are OK?

Bug seems to be reported here also:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/687567](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/687567)

---

### Post by Tomonomonous on 2011-04-29
I can confirm this problem. I noticed it in beta but thought it would get worked out by the stable release. :(
As for a solution, I'm not sure.

---

### Post by SuperLou on 2011-04-29
Confirmed here on an AMD64 with NVidia drivers (270.41.06).

---

### Post by Technoviking on 2011-04-29
There is a bug for it.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-appmenu/+bug/664614](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-appmenu/+bug/664614)

Please provide any feedback asked for.

T-V

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-30
> **mixim said:**
> 
Check out the video:
[[COLOR="Blue"]LINK TO VIDEO[/COLOR]]("http://dl.dropbox.com/u/2552010/Forum/out-2.ogv")

It maybe a bit exaggerated in the video, but still noticeable in real life.

I just wanted to commend you on a very well down video!


***The Hedge***

:KS

---

### Post by leeman101 on 2011-05-01
I was going to ask the same question if I couldn't find anyone else posting about this.  I was just curious as to whether it was my system or just a little bug.  I'm sure it'll be worked out soon.  :-]

---

### Post by mixim on 2011-05-01
> **Technoviking said:**
> There is a bug for it.
Please provide any feedback asked for.
T-V

Although close and probably related, its not exactly the same bug, i don't get the white flashing global menu. Only for the menu panels themselves, and the indicator menus. Especially when switching quick between them.

Although I think I found a reported bug, matching the behaviour much closer =)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/687567](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/687567)

Feedback =)

> **Hedgehog1 said:**
> I just wanted to commend you on a very well down video!
***The Hedge***
:KS

Hope the video portrays my point, thanks =)


> **leeman101 said:**
> I was going to ask the same question if I couldn't find anyone else posting about this.  I was just curious as to whether it was my system or just a little bug.  I'm sure it'll be worked out soon.  :-]

Wasn't like this in Gnome, so probably related to Unity and not Compiz... Definately takes away from any premium feel that Canonical is setting out to achieve =/.. Apple or MS wouldn't allow something like this (Don't hate , just sayin!).

---

### Post by mixim on 2011-05-01
I have a question to all readers! Is there anyone that does NOT experience this flickering? If not, then tell us your setup. 

Post a video on how it looks, im curious on how it should be =)

I've yet to see a machine without this flicker.

---

### Post by LittleJakub on 2011-05-01
my friend to hide it uses radiance theming- it's less visible. just for those, who don't mind bright panelling ;)

---

### Post by mixim on 2011-05-02
> **LittleJakub said:**
> my friend to hide it uses radiance theming- it's less visible. just for those, who don't mind bright panelling ;)

Haha thanks for the tip! Thats ok for some, would be nice with some other tips to that attack the root of the problem =)

---

### Post by leeman101 on 2011-05-02
> **mixim said:**
> Wasn't like this in Gnome, so probably related to Unity and not Compiz... Definately takes away from any premium feel that Canonical is setting out to achieve =/.. Apple or MS wouldn't allow something like this (Don't hate , just sayin!).

I agree.  I don't care for too much eye-candy, but I do like the OS to look nice (which 11.04 does, in my opinion).  But having little glitches and bugs like the white-flickering when changing menus definitely throws things off a little bit.

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2011-05-10
Anyone seen an update for this? It looks horrible. I can't believe the default theme has this issue on such a scale. I have natty installed on 4 machines and it does the same thing on all of them. They use both nvidia and ati graphics cards. It certainly doesn't make the OS unusable, but it's just distracting and looks terrible.

---

### Post by mixim on 2011-05-10
> **cerealcypher said:**
> anyone seen an update for this? It looks horrible. [....] it certainly doesn't make the os unusable, but it's just distracting and looks terrible.

+1

Please add report to the bug here so it gets more attention from dev's!
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/687567](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/687567)

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2011-06-08
Still no update on the bug report. I did find a temp fix though... well something that looks "better". Just go into Compiz > Animations and change the menu for both open and close to "none". There's no animation now, but at least there's no white flash. Looks better imo.

---

### Post by holcepl on 2011-06-15
I have the same problem. It is such a relief to know that a problem I am having is easily replicated. 

My only theory, and I'm not a programmer, is that these animations' backdrop is white and not transparent.

---

### Post by holcepl on 2011-06-21
Has anyone heard anything new? I apparently don't have the problem anymore.

---

### Post by holcepl on 2011-07-12
i figured it out. yet i'm no programmer. 

it seems that the flicker is the animation choosing the color of the "Windows - Background" color from your theme current theme. the color it should be matching is what "Controls" color scheme you may have selected. 

the way to recreate this is to change the "Windows - Background" color in your Appearance Settings with the animation setting in Compiz active and you'll see that it grabs that color. 

being a bit new, i'm not sure what the next step is going to be.

---

