---
title: "...and here I thought I just bought a penguin friendly printer."
date: 2006-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kpm on 2006-10-14
Hello,

I just bought a new multifunction print / scanner.  It is a Samsung Laser Multi-Function SCX-4200.  I bought it because it supports Linux and Mac. There was a penguin picture and a Mac logo on the box... I get it home and read in the manual that it supports Redhat, Suse, Mandrake, Trubo, and Slackware, sadly no Ubuntu or Debian.

So off to system>admin>printers and click on 'new printer'.  The wizard detects the correct printer, but on step 2 of 3, I am given a list of drivers to choose from, but sadly none for my particular model are listed.  So I click the 'Install Driver' and navigate to the printer's installer cd... but there are no ppd files in that directory, only a 'drivers.sh' file and a s'scx4200.install' file, so I cannot select anything (I did try to run the installer as well, when I double click on it it just opens up as a text file, when I sudo in the terminal and use ./ I get 'command not found'. So I just take whatever driver the installer was defaulted at in the list and try that.  But when I try to print, the printer kicks in and makes some noise, but then does not print anything and I get no error message.

So I cd myself over to /media/cdrom/Linux directory and issue the following command, as instructed to do in the printer manual './install.sh'.  Of Course I get a permission denied error because I need to SUDO, so 'sudo ./install.sh', enter password, but still get a permission denied error!  Try again a few times, same outcome.  I decide it has something to do with way Ubuntu aliases the cd drive in comparison to the other distros so copy the Linux directory to my hard drive and run the command again.  This time the script runs in the terminal, but that is not of much use because it can't find this or that library and it asks me to 'select' and make choices that are not visible because the installer is running in a terminal, not its GUI.  So I cancel that, then copy the whole cd over and try to run 'sudo ./install.sh' but now I get told that './: command not found'.

I am starting to have horror flash backs to when I tried to configure a 56K modem for Linux back in 1997... after which I went bowing defeated to the Redmond company.  Can anyone offer up any suggestions as to how I can get this supposedly penguin friendly printer working under Ubuntu??  It would be greatly appreciated.

I thought I was ready to convert over to Linux with the release of Ubuntu (or rather, I should say, I thought Ubuntu Linux was ready for me... turn it on and go...).  I have been using it happily for a few months now, with some minor irritations... one of which was my printer would not work with Linux... so I went out and bought one that was supposed to!  But still it is a royal pain!  Well, I can only afford to waste one more day on it... if I can't solve it, I will be forced to reach for that Windows 2000 installer... sigh.

---

### Post by meng on 2006-10-14
sudo install.sh should be adequate.

---

### Post by kpm on 2006-10-14
an update...

I went to the Samsung site and downloaded the driver.  This time the installer ran... the gui installer said all ran fine, but it would not print a test page when I clicked on the 'test print' button.  There were lots of errors listed in the terminal window though:
```
user@host:~/Desktop$ tar xzf 20060719091750812_UnifiedLinuxDriver.ta r.gz
user@host:~/Desktop$ cd cdroot
user@host:~/Desktop/cdroot$ ls
autorun  Linux
user@host:~/Desktop/cdroot$ sudo ./autorun
Password:
libtiff.so.3 not found, intstall ... done
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 166
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 166
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 166
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 166
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 166
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 166
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
user@host:~/Desktop/cdroot$
```

Thanks again for any help.

---

### Post by slimdog360 on 2006-10-14
if its got a '.sh' on the end you can use ```
sudo sh install.sh
```
without the sh near the start it should still work as your commandline should automagically be using a bash prompt. You could have also used 'bash' in place of the 'sh' at the start, but again its unneeded.

You are able to do this as the .sh extenstion signifies that its a shell script, something which should install the thing for you.

if you see a file in the list which says 'configure' or 'config' then you can be pretty sure that ```
sudo ./configure
``` will get you started. Then of course after that you would need a ```
make

make install
```. This is compiling something from source.

I hope that clarifies some things. But what meng said should work perfectly.

---

### Post by kpm on 2006-10-15
Thanks all.  Here is another update...

I don't know why the 'command not found' was appearing... but anyway, I am printing now.  Here is what I did.
After running the installer with the downloaded driver rather than the ones on the cd, I was able to install the Samsung gui, but it didn't see any printers.  So, I ran the Ubuntu printer wizard again, and this time, the driver I needed appeared and I was able to get the printer recognized.

The Samsung installer was saying that it altered the /etc/cups/printers.conf
 file, but it wasn't (I checked).  After I ran the Ubuntu printer wizard again, I checked the printers.conf file again and it had the following addied to it:
```
<Printer SCX-4200-Series>
Info
Location
DeviceURI usb://Samsung/SCX-4200%20Series
State Idle
StateTime 1160884294
Accepting Yes
Shared Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy stop-printer
</Printer>
```

Now on to the sanner part of this thing... hopefully that will go smoother...
Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by meng on 2006-10-15
Thanks for telling us about this - I had previously considered purchasing this machine.

---

