---
title: "11.10 &amp; 12.04 System Stopping Until Mouse Move or Keyboard Press"
date: 2012-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SolarQuark on 2012-09-15
Hi all.

I installed Ubuntu 11.10 in late 2011 and have since upgraded to 12.04 on an oldish laptop, branded iQon.
This is a Celeron M 1.5GHz, with 1024MB RAM, Via P4M800 Northbridge / Via VT8237 Southbridge.
The motherboard is labelled as model LM7WM and seems to be manufactured by FIC. The BIOS is FIC version 1.0B-2313-8A20, dated 29th June 2006.
The display is Via/S3G Unichrome Pro IGP. 
Mouse/Keyboard manufacturer is unknown.
Wired LAN is Via Rhine II.
Wireless LAN is Broadcom 802.11g.
HDD is SATA and had previously been upgraded to a 500GB unit from the original 40GB. 

The laptop is dual boot, having previously been a Window XP (SP3) system.
The HDD is partitioned so that WinXP has a dedicated 55GB partition specifically for the Windows system files and installed programs, a dedicated 10GB swap partition (for Windows) and about 180GB dedicated to 'Windows' documents (i.e. My Documents). The other 250GB is used by the Ubuntu install.

Anyway, I have a bit of a problem. 
The system appears to halt or stop operating frequently, perhaps every few seconds.
The system display of time does not update, any running programs that require the system to update the current status or to initiate an action seem to halt (for instance the download of a web page or a file transfer).
The system comes back to life by pressing a keyboard key or by moving the mouse cursor. It may, and often does, halt a few seconds later until another mouse or keyboard activity.

The problem was evident in the original install of 11.10 and continued with 12.04.

I'm new to Ubuntu and the likelyhood is that I am doing something silly.
I have waited for almost a year to see if any downloaded updates would resolve the problem.
I have search the web for indications that others might have experienced this problem and for possible solutions. One person seemed to have the same problem which was resolved by resetting the BIOS to the defaults. This did not work for me, although the problem is now not as evident as it was a couple of days ago in that the system might function normally for a couple of minutes unattended before activity halts. 
However, I had also installed the latest Ubuntu updates, so one or other of these might have affected this problem.

Am I experiencing a bug?
Or do I need to adjust some system setting?
Or it is just something I have done, or am doing?

Any ideas what I should do next?
Should I report this as a possible bug? (I don't want to take up developers' time unnecessarily).

Any advice appreciated.

Take care.

Mike

---

### Post by barrycorbett on 2012-10-07
Hi, I have the same laptop, and had the same problem. Add nohz=off to the boot options.

---

### Post by SolarQuark on 2012-10-19
Thank you for the reply and suggestion, Barry.

I added 
nohz=off
to the end of /etc/default/grub and executed
sudo update-grub
afterwards.

This did not solve my problem, unfortunately.

Is your hardware exactly the same as mine?


Thanks again.

Take care.

Mike

---

