---
title: "[14.04.3] Unity/X Freezes, unresponsive"
date: 2015-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by deflin39 on 2015-11-09
I've been dealing with system freezes since installing 14.04 on my new machine. These freezes are typically very rare, about every 30 days. It has continued through multiple kernel updates. I do not know how to reproduce it, though I suspect it has to do with video or sound. 
I just experienced two freezes within 48 hours and lost significant work so it's time to get this fixed.

I'm not exactly sure where to start though. Which log files should I look for diagnostic information? Are there any steps I can put in place that'll help catch diagnostic information the next time this issue happens?

Some details:
* Ubuntu 14.04.3
* Unity
* Seems only X is freezing. I can ssh into the machine and 'sudo service lightdm restart' which gets me back to a login screen.
* I have dual monitors. The mouse moves freely but is stuck on the primary monitor.
* I cannot click on anything. No windows or buttons are responsive. Neither is the dock or any toolbars. I can't Ctrl + Alt + <num>.
* The unity status bar is active. The clock and hardware sensors continue to update.
* Running top (from the remote machine) does not show any processes that look out of the ordinary (excessive consumption of CPU or memory).
* Didn't see any messages from dmesg.

Thanks!

---

### Post by deflin39 on 2015-11-09
It dawned on me this *may* be related to my synergy [1] installation. Next time this incident occurs I'll try killing that service first (and grab the log files).

[1] [https://github.com/synergy/synergy](https://github.com/synergy/synergy)

---

### Post by jarett2 on 2016-02-09
I've been dealing with this exact same issue, but I am not running Synergy. I have a MacBook Pro which does it fairly often, and a Toshiba laptop that will do it once in a blue moon. It seems like it happens more frequently when I'm using an external monitor, but there really isn't any other kind of pattern I can detect.

Another note: hitting Ctrl-Alt-F1 will eventually show a console login screen that runs fine, but it takes a while (1-2 minutes) for it to show up.

---

### Post by bill-wilken-wilkenmail on 2016-11-05
I have had problems with LibreOffice 5.1 and an up-to-date release of Firefox freezing a Macbook Pro configured to dual boot OSX and 16.04.  While I haven't done a rigorous check of hardware, it's worth noting that OSX has never frozen. Like another Ubuntu user who had a comparable problem with 13.04, I experimented with the following "fix":

[COLOR=#000000]sudo apt-get purge apport[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]sudo apt-get autoremove[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]sudo apt-get clean[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]sudo apt-get install apport
[/COLOR]

So far, the fix seems to be working.  After several hours use, I've had no freezes.  After reviewing the system log, however, I'm not certain that this really solves the problem. While it will take more time than I have at the moment to work through all the log entries, there is some reason to believe that the problem might be caused by my USB-linked Logitech mouse.  For the time being, I'm going to switch back to Apple's stock mouse and watch the log.

---

