---
title: "9.04: Ondemand setting using full CPU Freq for niced Jobs (e.g. BOINC)"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bierphysik on 2009-04-27
Hello people.

I also have a small 'heat' problem with 9.04.

I upgrade my laptop from 8.10 to 9.04. However, the ONDEMAND cpu scaling setting behaves differently in 9.04 in my case. Here the situation:

I am running BOINC projects on my laptop, especially when it's idle. These are processes with niceness 19 that run in the background.

On 8.10, the ONDEMAND setting did not care for these niced processes and used the lowest available CPU frequency setting when the laptop was idle and these BOINC processes were running.

On 9.04, the ONDEMAND setting does not ignore these processes! When the laptop is idle and BOINC is running, the ONDEMAND setting uses the full cpu speed (2.5GHz) all the time. When I suspend the BOINC jobs, ONDEMAND lowers the cpu frequency as expected to the lowest frequency setting (800MHz).

From that I conclude that the ONDEMAND settings in 8.10 and 9.04 are different - in 9.04 it seems to care about niced jobs.

This annoys me since the fan is running at full speed when the laptop is idle and the laptop also get quite warm (although not that warm that it becomes unstable as it was reported in other threads).

Here some hardware specs: T61 with T9300 on a 64Bit Ubuntu

Any ideas?????

Thanks in advance!!!

Le Bierphysik

---

### Post by midnightflash on 2009-05-11
Sadly I got the same problem since the upgrade to Jaunty. :-(

IBM T43 and R40 f.e.

Greetings

---

### Post by midnightflash on 2009-05-11
The installation of "powernowd" helps. :-D

---

### Post by Bierphysik on 2009-05-13
yes, powernowd "solves" the issue. but it does not solve the problem.

for some reason the ignore_nice flags in the ondemand setting are deactivated and activating does not help.

---

### Post by midnightflash on 2009-05-13
I tryed both... powernowd and pcufreqd and it both works like charm on niced fullthrottle-treads (as so keeps the CPU at low speed).

What is the problem now?

---

### Post by Bierphysik on 2009-05-14
sorry, my answer was not correct:

with powernowd it works fine - however with powersave or cpufreq not.

---

### Post by midnightflash on 2009-05-14
> **Bierphysik said:**
> with powernowd it works fine - however with powersave or cpufreq not. Ah... thanks... now I understand. So powernowd is at least a way for you. Good to know. :)

---

### Post by chezzo on 2009-05-15
I also had this problem - my CPU frequency was stuck on the highest setting, and my laptop was getting very hot. Installing powernowd seems to have fixed it!

---

### Post by chezzo on 2009-05-22
Actually, it's not as solved as I thought it was. Although now the CPU isn't on full all the time, it still seems to run incredibly hot, and I have to put it on powersave mode whenever I'm doing low priority tasks to stop the fan from constantly whirring.

---

### Post by abhiroopb on 2009-06-05
Hi, I have collated many of these posts relating to the overheating issue in one thread. Have a look and comment there please.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7404155#post7404155](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=7404155#post7404155)

---

