---
title: "22.04 Firefox Snap Crashes"
date: 2022-03-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ssnover on 2022-03-23
Since Ubuntu has forcibly pushed Firefox from apt to snap, I'm not unable to run firefox. I ran into this when I first updated to Ubuntu 22.04, but was able to remove the snap and install the apt package to circumvent. That's no longer an option.

When I run firefox from bash, I get this output:
```
(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance

(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: 18:13:54.162: invalid (NULL) pointer instance


(firefox:4508): GLib-GObject-CRITICAL **: 18:13:54.162: g_signal_connect_data: assertion 'G_TYPE_CHECK_INSTANCE (instance)' failed
[GFX1-]: No GPUs detected via PCI
[GFX1-]: glxtest: process failed (received signal 11)


(firefox:4508): Gtk-WARNING **: 18:13:54.165: cannot open display: :0
ExceptionHandler::GenerateDump cloned child 4538
ExceptionHandler::SendContinueSignalToChild sent continue signal to child
ExceptionHandler::WaitForContinueSignal waiting for continue signal...
```

I've seen it suggested that running with the environment variable DISABLE_WAYLAND=1 can help, this is the output under those circumstances:
```

Unable to init server: Could not connect: Connection refused
Error: cannot open display: :0

```

Not sure how to debug snap packages at all. The sandboxing seems to have added considerable issues in debugging issues. Happy to run any commands that can glean more information.

Also, if anyone from Canonical reads these: being forced off of a working apt package to a non-working snap package is annoying by itself, but when you then remove the way back its enough to make me consider moving to a new distro rather than debug whatever you broke.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-03-23
I have been on this Forum for over 12 years and know of no one here from Canonical...

You said you removed the Snap App FireFox and installed FireFox from Apt sources... I may have been the one that posted on how to do that... May have been for you or someone else.

So is your Apt installation of FireFox acting up? Or did you leave the instance of Snap Firefox? Because you mention Snap still... Even though you started out in the second or third sentence saying that you removed the Snap Version... So you have me a bit confused over that.

Did you try
```

sudo apt install --reinstall firefox

```
If for some reason you have both installed, yes there are going to be problems... you need to have just one or the other installed.

How? That would be like going into a crowed and yelling out for a common name like "Jim"... and having 5 people respond.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2022-03-24
> **MAFoElffen said:**
> 
Did you try
```

sudo apt install --reinstall firefox

```
If for some reason you have both installed, yes there are going to be problems... 

Having both installed shouldn't cause problems; up till very recently; any of Ubuntu-MATE, Lubuntu & Ubuntu Desktop (*installed with canary ISO*)** *jammy daily ISOs* **would have resulted in both *snap* and *deb* packages installed, without issue (*[unless you counted having 2x firefox options in internet & menus]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-default-settings/+bug/1963672") etc*)

However, the *deb* package is now only a shell that installs the *snap* package.

```
guiverc@d960-ubu2:~/.config$  apt-cache policy firefox
firefox:
  Installed: 1:1snap1-0ubuntu1
  Candidate: 1:1snap1-0ubuntu1
  Version table:
 *** 1:1snap1-0ubuntu1 500
        500 http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu jammy/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status


```

If I remember correctly, yesterday morning (~*1.5 days ago maybe, if not ~[2.5 days]("https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/weeks-of-firefox-crashes-this-morning-jammy-freezes-while-in-browser/3151/2")*) that package left -proposed and the much older & last *deb* package `**97.0.1+build1-0ubuntu1**` was replaced with the snap package in repositories. 

The only *deb* package of firefox now in *jammy* is just a script that will install the *snap* package.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2022-03-24
If it was me in your position; I'd likely boot a *live* system (Ubuntu *jammy daily*) and use the "*Try Ubuntu*" and see if it crashes there.  If it does, I'd file a bug report `ubuntu-bug firefox`is what I'd try to file first with...  and thus seek help & get the issue worked on asap.

I suspect it'll work perfectly though in a *live* system, and it's something related to your setup.

To get more detail on a crashed snap, you can try

```
snap run firefox --enable-logging=stderr --v=1
```

If you file a bug report; adding the output from that will be most helpful; in fact you'll possibly get asked to run that & add that detail to the report.

I'd hope to find *answers*, or at least **clues** in that output.  The other place to look is normal logs (`journalctl`, `dmesg` etc)

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2022-03-24
> **guiverc said:**
> If I remember correctly, yesterday morning (~*1.5 days ago maybe, if not ~[2.5 days]("https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/weeks-of-firefox-crashes-this-morning-jammy-freezes-while-in-browser/3151/2")*) that package left -proposed and the much older & last *deb* package `**97.0.1+build1-0ubuntu1**` was replaced with the snap package in repositories. 

The only *deb* package of firefox now in *jammy* is just a script that will install the *snap* package.
Dang. More and more. Another repo application falls from truly being apt. 

Early on, during testing of the Snaps Store, Canonical promised that they would not do that. (Affect or encroach on apt packages.)

Dang. I see that Mozilla does not provide .deb package files for download anymore. Only tarballs for Linux. It's been years since I have looked outside of the repo's for that. I will need to create an install script for some of my customers.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-03-24
Yes, I found today after not updating since last weekend (5 days ago) that the firefox apt version has disappeared and been replaced by the snap version.

So far I have steered clear of snaps completely and if I am able I intend to continue avoiding them, so I have therefore just downloaded the .tar.gz archive direct from [https://www.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/download/thanks/](https://www.mozilla.org/en-GB/firefox/download/thanks/) and run it directly from the executable in the extracted archive which is self updating.

I have been doing this in Debian versions (currently Unstable with bookworm repos) for a long time and it works brilliantly.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2022-03-24
I read that Mint maintains its own .deb of Firefox, avoiding forcing users into using snaps. Mint is beginning to look quite attractive.

---

### Post by sahulkko on 2022-03-25
Hi,
 22.04 is not yet even in Beta (**Ubuntu 22.04** **Beta:** March 31, 2022) so best thing is really report a bug into Ubuntu bug tracking system.
 SH

 ref. [https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/01/ubuntu-22-04-release-features](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/01/ubuntu-22-04-release-features)

---

### Post by ks-alexandr on 2022-03-25
I installed Firefox from the Mozilla site and removed the snap along with Firefox from Canonical.
Firefox from Mozilla works fine.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2022-03-25
> **The Cog said:**
> I read that Mint maintains its own .deb of Firefox, avoiding forcing users into using snaps. Mint is beginning to look quite attractive.
Yes, in the same way that they did for chromium, Clem trying hard to keep Mint snap free.

I wish him well in this though it may become more of a problem if, as is suggested, many of the Ubuntu packages become snaps by default. 
Perhaps this will push Mint to work more with the LMDE (Debian Edition) than they do at present.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-03-26
I am partially resigned to Canonical's doubling down on snap. But only partially resigned.

Since I have come to rely on LXD, I have no choice about that platform. However, alternatives do exist to the Firefox conundrum:

[LIST=1]
[*]One obvious alternative is ajgreeny's solution: install the standalone app and let it self-update. That's what happens now with my TOR Browser install which updates with no problems. FF behaves the same way, so this is an easy solution.
[*]Another is to install the Mozilla Team's PPA, then install Firefox-ESR. That will run a slightly older FF build but still more than sufficient for most users. And since the PPA is maintained by Mozilla devs, it is about as secure as a PPA gets, in both the trustworthiness sense and the timely patching sense.
[*]A third option is to run Focal in a VM or container and then run FF from within that older version. Since Focal will still be supported for three more years (even longer with ESM), the day of reckoning can be put off for a while yet. This option has the added advantage of naturally sandboxing FF for enhanced security protection.
[*]Last but not least is to switch from FF to another decent, privacy&#8209;respecting browser like Brave. Admittedly, this is not strictly a "solution" to the OP's question (which asks specifically about FF), but it is a valid general option nonetheless.
[/LIST]
So there are a lot of options.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2022-03-26
> **DuckHook said:**
> I am partially resigned to Canonical's doubling down on snap. But only partially resigned.
...

[LIST=1]
[*]A third option is to run Focal .... Since Focal will still be supported for three more years (**even longer with ESM**), the day of reckoning can be put off for a while yet.
[/LIST]
...

So there are a lot of options.

True, at least for the three *remaining *years of 20.04 LTS (before ESM)

Just as occurred with [16.04 ESM, I suspect `firefox` will be supported only via the *snap* package]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/ESM/16.04") with Ubuntu 20.04 LTS when it *hits* ESM.

---

### Post by ssnover on 2022-03-26
Just before checking in on this thread I ran apt update/upgrade cycle and tried Firefox again. This time after some spinning it eventually showed a menu for "refreshing Firefox" but said I'd lose extensions and themes. Gave it a go and was able to get it to run; it didn't even actually lose my extensions or themes.

Only packages in there that seemed like they could be related were udev and mesa related.

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2022-03-28
I ended up installing Firefox from linux mint repo's rather than using the snap release: [http://packages.linuxmint.com/search.php?release=any&section=any&keyword=firefox](http://packages.linuxmint.com/search.php?release=any&section=any&keyword=firefox)

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-03-28
> **TenPlus1 said:**
> I ended up installing Firefox from linux mint repo's rather than using the snap release: [http://packages.linuxmint.com/search.php?release=any&section=any&keyword=firefox](http://packages.linuxmint.com/search.php?release=any&section=any&keyword=firefox)
While doable, I would not advise that new users try something like this. Power users who know what they are getting into can (and will) do as they please, but for the OP and any lurkers out there:

Mixing repos is a very fraught exercise and not recommended. Don't be misled by the inaccurate refrain that MINT is "derived from" or "based on" Ubuntu. Were we to take that one step further, both are "derived from" Debian. Two steps further and both are "based on" Linux. Misunderstanding the "based on" refrain can lead to disaster. Different distros use different libraries and, quite frequently, different versions of even the same libraries. Mixing repos is pretty much a guarantee that you will irreparably break dpkg at some point. Unless you have personally experienced dependency hell, you would not wish it on your worst enemy.

In any case, there is no need to implement a cure that is possibly worse than the disease. The other alternatives listed are quite sufficient to solve this problem without the need to court complete system breakage.

---

