---
title: "Plymouth Customization"
date: 2010-06-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iceman_ch on 2010-06-09
I'm not sure if I should post this in the general help or in the programming section.  I've been up all night making Plymouth work and customizing it.  I've made a lot of progress.  Plymouth looks good and I've done a few tweaks.  I'm using the solar theme.  Instead of the sun being blue I've changed it to orange it looks really good.  Now I want to change the flares to be semi orange and change the backdrop to more of a black with stars instead of blue.  The backdrop should be easy but I can't find the image file for the background.  I've already modified the Ubuntu logo.  I figure the flares are part of the script but they are in binary.  I know how to program a little bit but, I don't want to start from scratch on the flares. I already like they way they are I just want to adjust the colour.  So I guess these are the questions I'm looking for help with.

1.  Does anyone know where the background image for the solar theme is located?
2.  Does anyone know where I can find the code for the solar-flare theme or somewhere I can start reading up on creating my own code?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-09
install locate with synaptic to find what you want on your system

locate packagename

look at plymouth-theme-solar into synaptic

---

### Post by iceman_ch on 2010-06-10
I installed locate and it didn't really help.  I can find the folder where all of the images are located at. However inside of this folder the image for the stars and the solar flares are missing.  I can locate a binary file I believe to be the code for the animation, but because the file is in binary there isn't much I can really do with it. I guess what I need to find is the source code and start from that.  Can anyone point in a good direction to start my hunt.  In the morning I'm going to start googling it.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-06-10
> **iceman_ch said:**
> 
.......
1.  Does anyone know where the background image for the solar theme is located?


Probably exactly where Synaptic says the Installed files for that package are.

---

### Post by iceman_ch on 2010-06-10
I wish it were that easy but, no.  The background image is not in the folder with everything else.  The image with the sun on it is.  The background is either generated by code or it's located some where else.  None of the files I've looked at reference anything other then the star image.  So I'm leaning towards code generating the background.  Which doesn't make a whole lot of sense.

---

