---
title: "17.10 How do I get accented characters with Spanish (Latin America) kb layout?"
date: 2017-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shochatd on 2017-11-13
According to what I read online, it seems like the way to get, for example, á (did that via Character Map), I should type a single quote followed by an a. But when I do that I just get 'a (using the key to the right of 0 for the single quote) or ’a (using alt-shift-b for the single quote). What works on Ubuntu? When I look at the keyboard layout for Spanish (Latin America), I do not see separate keys for accented characters, so that would seem to imply that one of those single quote keys should be a "dead key". But neither is. Perhaps I need to use a "Compose" sequence. But the official Ubuntu documentation for setting or discovering the compose key obviously is for pre-17.10. They seem to say that the default may be Shift-AltGr. I see no AltGr key on any of my physical keyboards.

---

### Post by leunam12 on 2017-11-14
You have to type "[" (square bracket: the key next to the P on the right side) followed by the letter. Example: [ followed by a = á

---

### Post by shochatd on 2017-11-14
> **leunam12 said:**
> You have to type "[" (square bracket: the key next to the P on the right side) followed by the letter. Example: [ followed by a = á

Thank you. That worked. Taking another look at the keyboard layout chart, I now see that there are THREE keys that appear to make single quotes. I had tried two of them and not spotted the one that actually works (for this)!

---

### Post by leunam12 on 2017-11-14
You are welcome.

---

