---
title: "6.06 updates."
date: 2008-06-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 1waytikt2tickletown on 2008-06-03
I finally (after alot of hard work) got 6.06 to install. Now, when I try to update all my packages so I can upgrade to 8.04, I get this error: 

"E: dpkg was interrupted, you must manually run " to correct the problem."

I've tried entering 'dpkg --configure -a' in the terminal but THEN I get another error:

dpkg: requested operation requires superuser privilege.

I'm hoping this has an easy fix.

---

### Post by markbusu on 2008-06-03
tried 

```
sudo dpkg --configure -a
```

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-06-03
run:
```

sudo dpkg --configure -a

```

You need root privelages to run dpkg

---

### Post by 1waytikt2tickletown on 2008-06-03
okay I tried that but it still says I need super user privliges

andy@andy-desktop:~$ sudo dpkg --configure -a
Password:
andy@andy-desktop:~$ dpkg --configure -a
dpkg: requested operation requires superuser privilege
andy@andy-desktop:~$
andy@andy-desktop:~$

---

### Post by 1waytikt2tickletown on 2008-06-03
EDIT: It seems I get something else when opening Update Manager now: You have 1 broken package on your system!

Use the "Broken" filter to locate it.

Where is the broken filter?

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-06-03
Surely if you want to install 8.04 why are you not just installing from the install CD?

to do the upgrade you should do this:
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```

Running sudo dpkg --configure -a is the same as running dpkg --configure -a just with root privileges.
What steps did you take in installing dapper? this could have caused the broken package.

---

### Post by 1waytikt2tickletown on 2008-06-03
when I try to open the update manager NOW it says 

Only one software management tool is allowed to run at a time

Please close the other application e.g. 'aptitude' or 'Synaptic' first.

But I don't have any other software management tool open.

I think I'll just try installing 6.06 all over again :(

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-06-03
Reboot and then try to use the package manager, its probably that apt-get or something is running in the background.

You didnt answer my previous question, if you are trying to install hardy why not use the hardy CD?
The alternate CD is only a 10MB download and you will download the same amount if you update from breezy.

---

