---
title: "13.04 Keyboard, mouse &amp; networking not working"
date: 2013-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bikerboi87 on 2013-05-16
Hi

I've been having a lot of trouble with a new install of 13.04

I can get to the login screen of Ubuntu 13.04, but that's it, the keyboard and mouse do nothing, and the networking isn't working either. I try and go in to rescue mode and the same thing. It works fine on the live disc, but once installed that's it. It's also fine in the BIOS and in Windows.

It was also fine in 12.10, and the 13.04 I had that I'd upgraded from 12.10

I've searched and searched for an answer but I can't find anything that will fix it. Would anybody be able to help me please? Please bare in mind that the only access I've got to the install is through a live disc

---

### Post by bikerboi87 on 2013-05-17
I'm afraid I'm going to have to bump this sorry

---

### Post by nikKiiin on 2013-06-07
Hi, I'm having the same issue. At first I tought it could be an issue with the 3.8.0 kernel and tried downgrading to 12.10 which worked with the kernel version distributed with 12.10, but not with never versions (needed a backported driver and a newer kernel version for my ethernet adapter).
Then I realised that the linux-image-extra-VERSION did not automaticly install when installing never version of linux-image-generic. So my guess is that you are missing the corresponding linux-image-extra-VERSION package.

Try booting the live disc, [mount the disk and chroot into it]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LiveCdRecovery#Update_Failure"). Then install linux-image-extra-`uname -r` which [containes additional drivers]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/153023/what-is-the-linux-image-extra-package-for-and-do-i-need-it") and reboot and see if it works.

Theres a bug report on what looks like the same issue: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1172852](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1172852)

---

### Post by bikerboi87 on 2013-06-07
I had to install 12.10 and upgrade to 13.04 so I could have a working computer

I will try it next time I reinstall, and let you know how it goes. I have marked the bug as affecting me too. Hopefully it will get fixed

Thanks for your help

---

