---
title: "7.10 Serious TRASH Problems!"
date: 2008-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by flintmecha on 2008-05-19
**EDIT:** Corrected the version number. This is a problem with Hardy Heron!

I am having numerous strange issues with my Trash can in Hardy Heron, and my guess is they may all be related.

First of all, the Trash applet has disappeared from my Panel and I can't get it back. I have even removed the Panel altogether and tried putting it on a different panel. No luck. I try to add Trash to the panel and nothing happens. 

So I though "Okay, I'll try putting an icon to it on my Desktop". I Googled the steps and found that I needed to use gconf-editor. When I enabled the Trash icon on my Desktop, I first notice that the icon indicates an empty trash can, which cannot be correct. I have recently been deleting files and sending them to the Trash via the right-click context menu option. I try to open the Trash can by double-clicking the now-visible Desktop icon and I get this error message:

Couldn't display "trash:".
There is no application installed for this file type.

So then I try one more thing. I open my terminal and attempt to browse to ~/.Trash - guess what! It's GONE. So what do I do? I create it! "mkdir .Trash" and there it is. Empty, but it's there now. I do a quick Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to restart X and when I log back in I open my terminal and ~/.Trash is once again MISSING!!

Does anybody have the slightest clue as to what's going on or what I can do to solve this?

---

### Post by deathkillspt on 2008-05-19
I have been having the same problem with hardy also, I have to reboot to get the trash can to come back. I thought it was just an issue with the theme i had but i guess it's not.

EDIT: I happened to look down at my panel and it's gone again, It's got to be a bug.

---

### Post by flintmecha on 2008-05-19
I *wish* a reboot would solve this issue for me but it doesn't.

---

### Post by flintmecha on 2008-05-20
Anybody got any ideas?

---

### Post by maddog39 on 2008-05-20
Looked around and found this temporary workaround which lets you empty the trash manually from the command line.
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/empty-ubuntu-gnome-trash-from-the-command-line.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/empty-ubuntu-gnome-trash-from-the-command-line.html)

---

### Post by flintmecha on 2008-05-21
That's not a workaround. Part of my problem is that my ~/.Trash directory DOESN'T EXIST.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2008-05-21
Your title says 7.10 problems, whereas your post refers to Hardy Heron. Could you please clarify?

---

### Post by strabes on 2008-05-21
The trash directory is in a different location in hardy. Please search the internet and these forums before posting a question - this question has been asked a million times.

Anyway, the trash directory is located in ~/.local/share/Trash

---

### Post by tomsyco on 2008-05-21
Haha i have a better one for you. I cant SEE mine. Oh its still there i can click on it and open it but i can't see it its wierd

I'm running 8.04

---

### Post by flintmecha on 2008-05-26
Holy crap I'm embarassed.

Just now I realized I used the wrong number. I feel like a fool. Thanks, Teo.

Silly me. Yes, I'm using Hardy.

And thanks Strabes for pointing out the new location of the Trash. However this does not solve the problem of putting the Trash on the panel or on the Desktop.

---

