---
title: "Nvidia 6200 Card - When the restricted manager fails, then what?"
date: 2008-07-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by djxcon on 2008-07-22
I just received an XFX GeForce 6200 AGP 512MB card and am running Hardy.

lspci: nVidia Corporation NV44A [GeForce 6200] (rev a1)

I have tried to install the restricted driver through the Hardware Manager and it tries to install nvidia-glx-new.  Upon the reboot, I get past the splash screen and then get a black screen with no access to TTY.

I have tried to manually remove nvidia-glx-new and install nvidia-glx but the same thing happened...black screen and no TTY.

I have not yet tried Envy or the Nvidia binary driver (NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.05-pkg1.run) but have it just in case I need it. 

What should be my next move?  Hopefully not to return the card! 

your help is appreciated!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-22
> **djxcon said:**
> I just received an XFX GeForce 6200 AGP 512MB card and am running Hardy.

lspci: nVidia Corporation NV44A [GeForce 6200] (rev a1)

I have tried to install the restricted driver through the Hardware Manager and it tries to install nvidia-glx-new.  Upon the reboot, I get past the splash screen and then get a black screen with no access to TTY.

I have tried to manually remove nvidia-glx-new and install nvidia-glx but the same thing happened...black screen and no TTY.

I have not yet tried Envy or the Nvidia binary driver (NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.05-pkg1.run) but have it just in case I need it. 

What should be my next move?  Hopefully not to return the card! 

your help is appreciated!

Hi and just a thought are you hooked via the DVI or VGA output?

---

### Post by djxcon on 2008-07-22
At the moment, VGA

---

### Post by djxcon on 2008-07-23
Well, I decided to run the nvidia script.  Upon completion...I reboot and after the splash...once again black screen where you cannot enter a TTY.

Here is what the xorg looks like after the nvidia script is executed. 

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Mon May 19 00:33:37 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Once I get the black screen, I have no choice but to force the power off and then boot to recovery mode.  I then have to restore an old basic xorg file and can get to the desktop using the vesa driver. 

Any ideas?  I am trying to stay away from Envy for the time being...

---

### Post by djxcon on 2008-07-25
This post is for the next person that tries to configure the Nvidia GeForce 6200 AGP card on Ubuntu Hardy.  This is not meant to be negative in any way and is only to inform others of MY own personal experience. 

I have tried to variants of this card: 

EVGA's Nvidia GeForce 6200 AGP 256MB LE
XFX's Nvidia GeForce 6200 AGP 512MB

After 20+ hours of forums and support channels on IRC, I am unfortunately back at square one.  Here was my experience in a nutshell:

I booted the computer with a basic pcritical xorg.conf file using nothing but generic information and the vesa driver.  This boots fine and I was able to log in.  I then attempted to install the restricted driver and Ubuntu Hardy installs nvidia-glx-new.   

Once you reboot, the XFX caused the computer to lock up to the point where I could not ping it from a second computer.  I then had to boot to recovery mode and set xorg back to vesa. 

After installing the restricted driver on the EVGA card, the computer did not lock up, however xorg would revert back to vesa.  

I also tried to install the NVIDIA binary driver package but this yielded the exact same results as installing Ubuntu's restricted driver.  Neat program though! 

After roughly 99 restarts (and I know this because of the 3 fsck iterations set for 33 reboots each), I am unfortunately using a faulty ATI Radeon 9600 card.  

For the most part these are the steps that I went through and throughout the troubleshooting problem, I have modified xorg in many ways...each failing in the same way.  I also double checked to make sure that I did not have older video card settings out there conflicting with the new card. 

Anyway, I hope that this post helps someone to not have to go through the endless nights that I went through with this card.  To reiterate, this is only a reflection of MY experience and others may have had better luck.  I hope others had better luck for that matter...

---

