---
title: "11.10 Can't Create An Ad Hoc Network"
date: 2011-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-24
OK, going back to basics here. Here is my scenario: 3 laptops, all running 11.10, all with wireless capability. Two are connected to the internet via (expensive) 3G dongles.

All I want to do is a) share files between each laptop and b) access via remote desktop each laptop. I should just be able to use the wireless connection between the laptops, shouldn't I? There is no need to connect to the internet to achieve this.

I thought a simple ad hoc network was all that I'd need. I tried setting up an ad hoc network on laptop 1 (a la first part of [this guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Adhoc"). Mode was Ad Hoc and Band was Automatic, no wireless security and under IPv4 method was Automatic (DHCP). 

At this point should laptop 1 show that is has connected to its own ad hoc network, or will it only connect when the next laptop is connected? Either way, it doesn't and neither does laptop 2. Under IPv4 I've tried assigning automatically, manually and 'shared to other computers' too, but to no avail.

I've installed no extra packages. I keep reading about Samba, but that's for cross-platform so I shouldn't need that. Do I need Apache installed instead? My Personal File Sharing is greyed out but that should all relate to a problem further down the line. The fact is I can't even create an ad hoc network.

If anyone can give me some pointers, I've be grateful.

---

### Post by tudor117 on 2011-10-24
From what I understand, you want to create an ad-hoc network, to which your other computers can connect to, and then share files.

I would change the IPv4 settings to "Shared to other computers" that way you don't have to worry about it. By doing so, you should be sharing the internet between computers too. 
Then on the other computers, look for it's name and select it. Try accessing the internet.

As for sharing files, see [this guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/internet/C/networking-shares.html").
You *do* need samba. It's easy to set up and install. Create a folder that you want to be your shared folder, and then right-click on it and go to "Sharing Options" tell it to Share the folder, name the share and allow others to create and delete files. You could allow Guest access, but I found that permissions got screwed up when doing so. It will most likely ask you to log out (or restart).
To view shares, go to the network, select the computer, and select the share. You should be logging in either with a Guest account, or with the share's login and password.

As well, why not consider Ubuntu One or Dropbox? (Okay, maybe limited internet might be a reason...)

An other possibility is connecting them all by network cables, or by bluetooth (which is really slow).

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-24
Firstly, all the guides suggest that Samba is required when sharing across different OS and not when all the machines are running Ubuntu, so either I don't need Samba or all the documentation I've read is misleading!

I forgot to mention that I also tried Share With Other Computers as my IPv4 setting.

I'll check out that link and get back to you. Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by tudor117 on 2011-10-24
So for the ad-hoc, when you create the ad-hoc connection, it should show as connected to its own network. I found this to work using the shared to other computers. Have it "Connect automatically". On the computers that you want to connect, you need to go find the SSID that you gave, and then tell it to connect. This will only work once "Computer 1" is connected to itself.

**UPDATE**: Apparently not every wifi card supports creating an adhoc network. Is your card [supported]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/Adhoc#Supported_Cards")? Try running the network on other computers. If all computers don't work, you'll have to think of a different method. Do you have any internet cables around?

A thing to note that I found is that (at least from my desktop) ad-hoc networks are really slow.

I'm not sure what guides you found about sharing, because I'm more than fairly certain that Samba is required for sharing Folders. Of course there are other methods of sharing such as FTP, etc, but Samba should be the easiest once all computers are on the same network.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-24
I've successfully run an ad hoc network on these same computers before, but running 10.10, so I know the network cards can handle an ad hoc network.

I started installing Samba and was following [this guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/11.10/serverguide/C/samba-fileserver.html") before I realised I didn't really know what I was doing. I mean, why is there a Network shortcut in the left hand column of Nautilus showing Windows Network which, when you click on it, says 'unable to mount location', all the while following that guide to create a different folder for sharing? This is what is extremely confusing to a fairly non-network savvy person like myself. 

I still do not understand why laptop 1 will not connect to its own ad hoc network. There has to be something really simple that I'm missing.

---

### Post by tudor117 on 2011-10-24
Does the ad-hoc connect to itself at least?
Does the network manager show the connecting state (the spinning thing)? 
Maybe you have to tell it to connect?
How far is it from connecting?

As for samba, the documentation you followed is for servers. It is much more difficult (because of having to manually edit configuration files) and thus unnecessary.
All you really need to do is to create a folder and tell it to share that folder by right-clicking.

Inside the Network shortcut, will appear the linux computers that are sharing. It probably says unable to mount for the windows network because there is nothing inside it.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-25
Hello again, Tudor. All that happens with the connection is after creating the ad hoc network and trying to connect to it, the flashy thing makes that animation that looks like it is trying to connect, and then it fails. Annoyingly, after that, every few minutes a window appears asking me to try to connect to it again. So, to answer your questions: no, it does not connect to itself; yes, it shows the connecting state (not the connected state); I'm always telling it to connect, mainly through 'connect to hidden wireless network'; it tries to connect for around 10 seconds and then fails.

It was four in the morning when I was following that guide so excuse my stupidity at following a server guide. I did say I wasn't very good at this.

There is very definitely a small step that I have omitted. The frustrating thing is I have no idea where to start looking. If you have any other pointers...

---

### Post by tudor117 on 2011-10-25
Okay!
I have more ideas.
For the ad-hoc, try following [this guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Internet/ConnectionSharing").
Here is the important section to try:

Wireless Ad-Hoc connection sharing scenario
Step by step guide:
[LIST]
[*]dnsmasq-base has to be installed: sudo apt-get install dnsmasq-base
[*]remove dnsmasq as it's conflicting with NetworkManager: sudo apt-get remove dnsmasq
[*]restart NetworkManager: sudo /etc/init.d/network-manager restart
[*]Add a new wireless network with NetworkManager (left-click on NetworkManager icon, then select "Create New Wireless Network")
[*]Call the new network "UbuntuAdhoc" (note: if you choose another name you will have to turn on connection sharing later by editing the network you just created!)
[*]Set encryption to "WEP40..." (note: you may have to experiment here according to what type of encryption with ad-hoc the phone/other laptop/pc supports, wpa is not supported)
[/LIST]
NetworkManager now should connect to itself (which means it creates the ad-hoc wireless network and routes any internet traffic to your wired network interface). Now connect with the client(s) and you should have a working internet connection.

From that site, you could also try the GUI Method. The important thing I think is to make sure you have the right package installed.
There's no point in trying to connect to a hidden wireless network, because if it isn't yet setup (computer 1 connected) there will be nothing to connect to.

Also, if you have a crossover Ethernet cable, you could [try this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961669"). The speed would also be much faster.

Once you get those connected, you can also try to share files using SSH if you can't get Samba to work. [This ]("https://linuxowns.wordpress.com/2008/06/08/share-files-between-2-ubuntu-computers/")should work.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-25
Hi Tudor,

Just before I continue I should mention that whilst playing around with this problem (all of today) I have somehow killed wlan0 so that it is no longer detected. I've yet to find out how to get my computer to detect it.

Answering your other points:
- dnsmasq-base is already installed
- dnsmasq I do not have this installed
And then I can't continue because of this missing wlan0 issue!

---

### Post by tudor117 on 2011-10-25
Hi,
That's really a bummer. What did you do? It's possible that you hit a switch (hardware or software) that just disables it... Try right clicking on the network manager and checking if Wireless is enabled.

Also, do you still not have an crossover ethernet cord or a network switch?

I understand that you can't progress with out all computers being on a LAN, and you can't try ad-hoc without wireless working. Hopefully you didn't remove the driver :P

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-26
With all my dicking around I suspect I HAVE removed the driver, or installed a different one over the top of it. If I have, what's the best procedure?

---

### Post by tudor117 on 2011-10-26
...I didn't know that was possible...  other than deleting the driver. I'm pretty sure they're automatically assigned.
Check that it is physically turned on, and then try these two commands ```
nm-tool
sudo lshw -C network
```
From [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/10.04/internet/C/troubleshooting-wireless.html") and [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide").
It will tell you what drivers each device is using. You can post that here.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-27
nm-tool
```

NetworkManager Tool

State: connected (global)

- Device: eth0 -----------------------------------------------------------------
  Type:              Wired
  Driver:            r8169
  State:             unavailable
  Default:           no
  HW Address:        78:AC:C0:44:AF:0C

  Capabilities:
    Carrier Detect:  yes
    Speed:           10 Mb/s

  Wired Properties
    Carrier:         off


- Device: 00:1E:3A:2B:5F:48 ----------------------------------------------------
  Type:              Bluetooth
  Driver:            bluez
  State:             disconnected
  Default:           no

  Capabilities:


- Device: ttyUSB3  [Tata Docomo 3G Dongle] -------------------------------------
  Type:              Mobile Broadband (GSM)
  Driver:            option1
  State:             connected
  Default:           yes

  Capabilities:

  IPv4 Settings:
    Address:         49.249.141.216
    Prefix:          32 (255.255.255.255)
    Gateway:         10.64.64.64

    DNS:             202.149.208.91
    DNS:             202.149.208.92


```



sudo lshw -C network
```

  *-network               
       description: Network controller
       product: BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=bcma-pci-bridge latency=0
       resources: irq:16 memory:d3400000-d3403fff
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller
       vendor: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 78:ac:c0:44:af:0c
       size: 10Mbit/s
       capacity: 100Mbit/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress msix vpd bus_master cap_list rom ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=r8169 driverversion=2.3LK-NAPI duplex=half firmware=N/A latency=0 link=no multicast=yes port=MII speed=10Mbit/s
       resources: irq:41 ioport:2000(size=256) memory:d1410000-d1410fff memory:d1400000-d140ffff memory:d1420000-d142ffff


```

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-27
I should point out that it says 'connected' because I had my mobile dongle connected. I'm just working my way through the guides you pointed me to. I'll post up my findings shortly. Thanks, Tudor.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-27
Right, this is what I have gleaned so far. I think I need help installing from Git, which I haven't a clue about.

My network card is a Broadcom BCM4313. 

Using this command 'lspci -vnn | grep 14e4' I get this:

```

02:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller [14e4:4727] (rev 01)

```

If I then use [this link]("http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/b43#Other_distributions_not_mentioned_above") I check the table, where third from the bottom it clearly says the b43/b43 legacy drivers do not support my card. Instead it suggests the link [wl/brcm80211]("http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/brcm80211"), which takes me to[ this page]("http://wireless.kernel.org/en/users/Drivers/brcm80211").

That page then suggests that I need firmware and there is a [link to a GIT page]("http://git.kernel.org/?p=linux/kernel/git/dwmw2/linux-firmware.git"). At this point I am confused because I don't know how GIT works or what I am supposed to do!

Meanwhile, I read elsewhere that b43 conflicts with the STA drivers, suggesting that I should uninstall STA. Now, this possibly makes sense because I'd already had STA installed and I'd blindly gone ahead and used fwcutter to install b43 whilst STA was still installed. I'm guessing here but this might explain why WLAN0 disappeared: because STA and b43 conflicted.

I have since used Ubuntu Software Centre to uninstall STA driver in the hope I might get WLAN0 back, to no avail. So do I need to uninstall fw-cutter first? If I search Ubuntu Software Centre for Broadcom there are four items: broadcom-sta-common; bcmwl-kernal-source; broadcom-sta-source; b43-fwcutter.

Only the last one is still installed. If I go to uninstall it it comes up with a window 'to remove b43-fwcutter blah blah firmware-b43-installer must also be removed'.

Basically I'm in a pickle. What should be my next move?

---

### Post by tudor117 on 2011-10-27
What I find weird is that it was working before... right?
Anyways, I found others complaining about this device on Oneric.

From [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11352937#post11352937"), the last post:
"create a one-line file /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-bcma
blacklist bcma"

Oh and git is easy to use, you just issue a "git clone [url]" in the terminal. But, the url is nonexistent for that site. Try this instead:
```
 git clone git://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/gregkh/staging.git 
```

---

### Post by FokkerCharlie on 2011-10-28
The blacklist fix doesn't work for me- according to the bug link below, several others are seeing the same thing.  Did you do anything else?  Are you using the open or closed source drivers?

Charlie

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/863799](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/863799)

Edit:  from that bug report, using the workaround in comment 3, with more lines in the blacklist file works:

blacklist bcma
blacklist brcmsmac
blacklist brcmutil

WEP hex only.

---

### Post by FokkerCharlie on 2011-10-28
By the way, Demonboy-  I had a problem that sounds similar to yours, and was directed to this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1870390](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1870390)

Which fixed it for me.  At least I have wireless back, no adhoc, though.  Look for the post on that thread with the picture attached.

Cheers
Charlie

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2011-10-28
Eeeewww... I would never in good concience recommend Samba to anybody.  The easiest way to share files is with SFTP.  If you really want a network file system, then use NFS, not Samba.

Anyhow, before messing with a network file system, first get the network to work properly, so that you g=have IP addresses and connectivity everywhere, then look at NFS or FTP or some such.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-28
Right! 

I have managed to get my wireless card working again! Basically I consolidated my blacklist files and played around with commenting out different blacklists. This is what I ended up with, which was to basically comment out everything.

```

# Wireless problem as shown here: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/863799
# blacklist bcma
# blacklist brcmsmac
# blacklist brcmutil

# replaced by b43 and ssb.
# blacklist bcm43xx

# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
# blacklist b43
# blacklist b43legacy
# blacklist ssb

# this is taken from the broadcom-sta-common.conf file
# wl module from Broadcom conflicts with ssb
# We must blacklist the following modules:
# blacklist b44
# blacklist b43legacy
# blacklist b43
# blacklist brcm80211
# blacklist brcmsmac
# blacklist ssb
# install wl /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install wl $CMDLINE_OPTS

```

Firstly I'd like thank you all for getting me back to this point, which included me working through your recommended links.

However I can't mark this thread as SOLVED because I am back to my original problem: I cannot create an ad hoc network.

It sounds like this is not just a problem I'm experiencing though. It looks like it is an 11.10 issue. Not sure where to go from here except to stat going through the bug reports and maybe flag this one up.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-28
Right! 

I have managed to get my wireless card working again! Basically I consolidated my blacklist files and played around with commenting out different blacklists. This is what I ended up with, which was to basically comment out everything.

```

# Wireless problem as shown here: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/863799
# blacklist bcma
# blacklist brcmsmac
# blacklist brcmutil

# replaced by b43 and ssb.
# blacklist bcm43xx

# Warning: This file is autogenerated by bcmwl. All changes to this file will be lost.
# blacklist b43
# blacklist b43legacy
# blacklist ssb

# this is taken from the broadcom-sta-common.conf file
# wl module from Broadcom conflicts with ssb
# We must blacklist the following modules:
# blacklist b44
# blacklist b43legacy
# blacklist b43
# blacklist brcm80211
# blacklist brcmsmac
# blacklist ssb
# install wl /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install wl $CMDLINE_OPTS

```

Firstly I'd like thank you all for getting me back to this point, which included me working through your recommended links.

However I can't mark this thread as SOLVED because I am back to my original problem: I cannot create an ad hoc network.

It sounds like this is not just a problem I'm experiencing though. It looks like it is an 11.10 issue and I can confirm that because I cannot create an ad hoc network on the three computers I have in front of me, all of which are configured differently with three different network cards. Not sure where to go from here except to stat going through the bug reports and maybe flag this one up.

---

### Post by tudor117 on 2011-10-28
It appears that there has already been a bug reported, and it claims to be fixed.
[Here it is.]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/830178")

Here's the gist of it:
*Please make sure you have network-manager-applet 0.9.1.90-0ubuntu6 installed; and if your ad-hoc network was created prior to this upload, you'll want to either change its settings to make sure IPv6 is set to Ignore; or delete it and re-create it with nm-applet (once it's upgraded).*

I suggest also reading the comments, specifically Roland's last one, because it might affect you.

On a side note, I use SAMBA (mostly because I have other OS's on the network) and I've never had any problems with it. If anyone suggest anything else, that would be great.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-29
Hi Tudor. I've spent the entire morning working on this and wasn't going to reply back until I had some good news. Alas, I followed the instructions for installing the latest Network Manager applet, which required a lot of extra installations, and the whole thing's gone **** up. Lost my network manager altogether and have no other way of connecting to the internet on that machine. I even tried bluetooth via my phone but I suspect it is having similar problems to the Network Manager dropping out.

I'll get back to you when I've sorted it. Thanks for the link.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-10-30
Seems like I had GTK 2 and GTK3 clashing due to that install so I had to uninstall it in order to get back my original Network Manager.

Back to square one.

---

### Post by HrKristian on 2011-11-10
Installing 11.10 gave me the same problem, trying to create an ad-hoc network only results in an endless repeat of the computer trying to connect to its own network...

My card is an *"Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 4965 AG or AGN", *not even the same manufacturer as yours, and looking at the other reports this seems to be a distro issue.

Have you considered going back to a previous version on one of your computers? I didn't have the issue with Natty Narwhal (11.04).
Quite frankly, in my opinion, the new system settings in 11.10 sucks bigtime, why you're *forced* to use a dumbed down front-end with barely any customisation compared to older versions is beyond me.
Well, at least with Ubuntu/Linux no changes are permanent, unlike some dinosaurs c:

---

### Post by fender_squier on 2011-11-18
He everybody,

Also here, installing of version 11.10 gave me the same problem:
Trying to create an ad-hoc  network only results in an endless repeat of the computer trying to  connect to its own network...
WLAN Card is Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller (rev 01)

With 10.04 this worked really fine.

Following this guide didn't help:
"[I]dnsmasq-base has to be installed: sudo apt-get install dnsmasq-base
remove dnsmasq as it's conflicting with NetworkManager: sudo apt-get remove dnsmasq
restart NetworkManager: sudo /etc/init.d/network-manager restart
Add a new wireless network with NetworkManager (left-click on NetworkManager icon, then select "Create New Wireless Network")
Call the new network "UbuntuAdhoc" (note: if you choose another name you will have to turn on connection sharing later by editing the network you just created!)
Set encryption to "WEP40..." (note: you may have to experiment here according to what type of encryption with ad-hoc the phone/other laptop/pc supports, wpa is not supported) [/I]"

In fact, dnsmasq-base was installed already (maybe it came with some updates in the last days), and removing of dnsmasq was not possible because it was not installed anyway. Tried with WEP, without WEP, ... nothing helps here. Please help!

Thanks and greetings
fender_squier

---

### Post by gideon793 on 2011-11-21
Hey everyone,
I also have the same problem with my  Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller. I've tried almost all the steps described above but i can't get it to work. Really need some help!!

Thanks.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2011-12-03
Just getting oh-so-bored of Ubuntu now. The requirement for an ad hoc network is vital to my circumstances. What with that and an on-going Network Manager/mobile dongle problem I've had since I first started using Ubuntu 10.04 it's all just getting tiresome.

Today I noticed someone's signature that read 'Linux assumes you know what you are doing'. This is very true. For semi-technical people like me who just want things to work all this arsing about spending days researching problems that don't have solutions is a great way of switching people back to Windows. That and arrogant Linux fan-boys who tell me I am being stupid for not being able to sort out these problems myself. Sorry, guys, but I don't have that kind of time on my hands to mess around under the bonnet. Just give me an OS that works and stop with all this Lens and Compiz nonsense. Concentrate on building an OS that the AVERAGE COMPUTER USER wants.

When I first joined these forums I got a real ticking off by an old user of Linux who told me I wanted everything now and that I was too impatient to learn. This is half true: I do want an OS that works and no I don't want to spend days nay, weeks, researching its frustrating nuances. This is where Apple has succeeded. Their iPad OS is so intuitive even non-technical people can use it. Can you imagine half the ipad population trying to get their heads around setting up an ad hoc network on Ubuntu?

* pause to unplug and replug mobile dongle for the 23rd time this afternoon in order to refresh my internet connection *

I keep sticking with Ubuntu because I'm all for FLOSS and I really, really want it to work. I want Ubuntu to win over Windows and Mac users and I want Ubuntu to rule the world. 

But more than that I just want an OS with ad hoc networking features that works.

---

### Post by fender_squier on 2011-12-04
Hello Demonboy!

I understand you very well. This is what I really don't understand. I made a adhoc with 10.04 very quickly, and it worked satisfactionally. 
Now this thing doesn't work anymore. Are we running backwards. Is that it? I mean... arghhh...

Let's sit, wait and play Sidney Joungblood: "let's sait and wait, sit and wait... tumdiudmm schub tumdidum.. piano kling klang klang, kling kling kling kling klang klang.... "

I fear that one day Windows and Mac will be the only two existing, if the programmers of Linux do not pay enough attention to details.

Greetings from an Tripple-A country ;-)
fender_squier

---

### Post by mp.maghribi on 2012-01-02
Hey everyone. 

I've managed to create ad hoc network. I use ubuntu 11.10 64bit, with nework-manager 0.9.1.90-0ubuntu5.1.  
Here's my lspci -nnv | grep Network result 
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Atheros Communications Inc. AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express) [168c:002b] (rev 01)
I use WPA & WPA2 Personal security and set password to 1234567890.

Hope this help.

---

### Post by Murukesh on 2012-01-09
Using 4313 myself, and blacklisting the open source drivers didn't help. I'm not blaming Ubuntu developers. In fact I don't think it's their fault at all. We see this everytime with new hardware. With my first pc, drivers for the 56kbps modem. For the second LAN card drivers. For the third wifi drivers. After each step, it seems that drivers for the hw in the previous step are already installed by the OS, whether Windows or Linux. Why can't the morons creating the hw drivers learn?:confused:

---

### Post by demonboy on 2012-01-10
It's a fair comment, I suppose. I appreciate the developers are doing all this catch-up for free and moany old sods like me come along and bitch about it. At the same time the very basics should be addressed and I call this a basic requirement. The year is 2011 and I can't create an ad hoc network, that's just wrong!

---

### Post by 0-lerry on 2012-03-04
I am thinking of this possibility of creating an ad-hoc network on my laptop so i can connect to the web using the network from my portable wireless device. I need help on how to create the network please and i also want to know if what i am thinking would work. thanks.

---

### Post by demonboy on 2012-03-04
0-lerry. Just press 'A' and then turn it off and on again, it should work. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by fender_squier on 2012-03-13
Hey guys,

I sorted a few things out.

Creating an ADHOC network works fine:
.) with WPA security using only, either with  standard and proprietary driver.

Creating an ADHOC network doesn't work:
.) with NO security or WEP security, either with standard or proprietary driver.

The problem I have is that I have some computers in my house with older WEP cards (PCMCIA), that doesn't support WPA, thus I can't use my Ubuntu 11.10 installation to create an ADHOC network with WEP or NO security.

I use kernel version "vmlinuz-3.0.0-16-generic"

Meanwhile some time went by, but no update corrected this problem. Still sitting and waiting... :???:

greetings from "not any more a tripple-A country" \\:D/
fender_squier

---

