---
title: "12.04 beta 2 Problem to get to desktop after update"
date: 2012-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sigixv on 2012-04-26
Hi all,

Recently migrated back to ubuntu 12.04 Beta2 x64 and installed a dual boot alongside Win7 on this machine:

ACER ASPIRE 7560G-8358G1.5TM AZERTY
CPU:	AMD A8    3500M	Quad Core  1500 MHz
RAM:	8 GB      SO-DIMM DDR3-1066   2x4 GB
HDD:	1,5 TB    SATA 5400 rpm  2disks
Screen:	17,3 inch 1600 x 900 Transflective TFT LED-lighting
Video:	AMD Radeon HD 6720G2	2048 MB
Ethernet:  Atheros AR8151 PCI-E
Wi-Fi:	Broadcom 802.11n


Install went fine but i recieved on several occasions notifications of errors when using programs- however they ran just fine - so i put them to ignore. Standard update servers did not work, so i changed sources to (official) mirrors available in the selection of Software Sources.

Standard Video Driver worked but gave glitches so i installed ATI Proprietary and afterwards did all updates. After reboot i was dropped to command line for log in, both when i use the kernel from installation and the updated one.

startx works but screen keeps blocked somewhere in startup. With one kernel it hangs after "Userspace bootsplash" the other one after "checking battery state". Strange thing is that the system remains responsive but nothing is printed on the screen: HDD is not busy and after pushing the power button, system nicely powers off with printing the services it is stopping.

I tried to launch with lightdm but that produced errors. Booting in Recovery mode, i fixed broken packages. Graphical environment in recovery mode produces fatal error "no screens found".

This is the second time i encouter this problem of blockage after updates. I reinstalled and tried the same again, and all things above mentioned are therefore reproducable.

Probably the problem here lies somewhere with Xorg and the video driver. Any ideas on how to solve it? Do i reinstall the driver from command line, do need to purge something, do i do something in the Xorg.conf ?

I know a little bit my way around the command line but i've always used it within a graphical environment. So i wanted to view my Xorg.conf but using gedit produced error.


Any help greatly appreciated

---

### Post by lonniehenry on 2012-04-26
12.04 will be released later today and you would be advised to wait and install the final version.  That way you will bypass all of the updates that have happened since beta 2.  There were some major bug fixes since.

---

