---
title: "R.I.P. Inspiron 6000"
date: 2009-09-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-09-29
I don't know what happened to it. Last night it was getting along perfectly well with Karmic, and now it won't even show the BIOS. At first I thought maybe the screen had gone bad somehow but I plugged in into my desktop monitor and still nothing. Any ideas? Or is it time to buy a new one?

Edit -> Also forgot to mention that I put in my Jaunty cd and tried to boot into it from memory but it didn't work.

---

### Post by ApEkV2 on 2009-09-29
Are there any beeps? stuck keys?
When I first built my computer, it wouldn't do anything at startup, no beeps no screen, turned out the reset button was broken (stuck on).
Probably not the problem in this case.

---

### Post by sideaway on 2009-09-29
Bad memory, try swapping out chips. Careful though as bad motherboards can kill good memory. Otherwise it is a dead motherboard. Love my 6000. Just a little heavey is all :P

I suggest start looking for new hardware unfortunately.

---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-09-29
No beeps, no stuck keys, no hard drive clicks, nothing out of the ordinary except it won't boot.

---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-09-29
> **sideaway said:**
> Bad memory, try swapping out chips. Careful though as bad motherboards can kill good memory. Otherwise it is a dead motherboard.

Must be a bad motherboard then as I just upgraded to 1GB of RAM about 6 months ago. 

> Love my 6000. Just a little heavey is all :P

Yeah, the weight is the only problem I have with it as well. Fortunately, I don't take it out much.

> I suggest start looking for new hardware unfortunately.
:(:(:(:(:(:(:(

---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-09-29
Update! IT LIVES!!!!

This is very unusual. I took the battery out and put it back in and it works again.....I haven't a clue why.

---

### Post by sleepyjon on 2009-09-30
> **ninjapirate89 said:**
> Update! IT LIVES!!!!

This is very unusual. I took the battery out and put it back in and it works again.....I haven't a clue why.

Had you already tried booting with it plugged in or did you only try booting on battery power?

---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-09-30
> **sleepyjon said:**
> Had you already tried booting with it plugged in or did you only try booting on battery power?

I tried plugged in w/battery, unplugged w/battery, plugged in w/o battery, then plugged in w/battery. It only started working after I took the battery out. The laptop is starting to show its age and the battery only holds ~1/2 the charge it did when it was new.

---

### Post by sleepitoff on 2009-09-30
I had a problem similar to this before.. Laptop running fine, no problems... Next morning it wouldn't boot at all and I couldn't figure out why and thought my motherboard fried for an unknown reason... 

Turns out there's a small battery located under the keyboard called a CMOS battery and that stopped working

---

