---
title: "ddclient problems ..."
date: 2006-02-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wannabelinuxconvert on 2006-02-01
Hi,

I've just installed ddclient from Synaptic and everything ran fine.

I then edited the /etc/ddclient/default and /etc/ddclient.conf as detailed below, restarted ddclient using /etc/init.d/ddclient restart and again everything ran fine ... I checked dyndns.org and my account had updated, I checked the daemon.log 
and syslog files and there was messages telling the update was successful and I've recieved an email also saying the same.

Except now thats it ... the daemon is set to update every five minutes, but it doesn't seem to be, with no apparent errors ... and even restarting using /etc/init.d/ddclient restart of force-reload seems to go okay, but the update doesn't happen.

Any ideas guys !?
[B]
/etc/ddclient/default[/B]

```
# Configuration for ddclient scripts 
# generated from debconf on Wed Feb  1 22:25:34 GMT 2006
#
# /etc/default/ddclient

# Set to "true" if ddclient should be run every time a new ppp connection is 
# established. This might be useful, if you are using dial-on-demand
run_ipup="false"

# Set to "true" if ddclient should run in daemon mode
run_daemon="true"

# Set the time interval between the updates of the dynamic DNS name in seconds.
# This option only takes effect if the ddclient runs in daemon mode.
daemon_interval="300"

```

**/etc/ddclient.conf**

```
# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
#use=if, if=wlan0
use=web
server=members.dyndns.org
login=*******
password=**********
ubuntu.dnsdojo.org
mail=mic@ubuntu.dnsdojo.org
```

(*Username and Password starred out for obvious reasons*)

---

### Post by wannabelinuxconvert on 2006-02-02
Anyone !?  :-k

---

### Post by garak on 2006-02-02
I had same impression... anyway I used ddclient and it seems to work: I mean, my home pc stay connected for a whole day
Maybe it's just because my IP is not changed? :-?

---

### Post by jazzgossen on 2006-02-02
I never had any luck with ddns, so I switched to no-ip instead, which works better for me.

---

### Post by ned.b on 2006-02-02
Are you getting any errors in /var/log/syslog to do with ddclient?

---

### Post by wannabelinuxconvert on 2006-02-02
No, no errors at all ... it only seems to make the one entry saying it was successful on the original daemon start after installation, after that there's no messages at all, regardless of how many times I restart it or change the default time etc

It's all very confusing :confused: because if I had some errors messages, at least it'd be a starting point.

Mic

---

### Post by ned.b on 2006-02-02
The ddclient will only update if the ip address has changed - has your address changed?  If not it will not do anything...

---

### Post by wannabelinuxconvert on 2006-02-02
Yeah, after doing some more googling it seems clear that is the case :D 

The thing that was confusing me (doh!) was that I would change what was held by dyndns manually through the control panel, and then see if ddclient updates it ... however, I think it must work slightly different to how I figured it would. I thought it would check my current ip against the one on the account and if they differed then it would update ... but, I now think it must cache the last changed IP somewhere locally, and then when it checks the IP, it checks it against that, so only accesses the dyndns account to update when it's 100% sure it needs to make a change.

Anyhow, there is a method to force an update, which I am going to try out tonight and will post my finding here.

Thanks

Mic

---

### Post by ned.b on 2006-02-02
Cool

Careful with forcing the updates though - dyndns do not usually like you to update unless the ip has changed and might lock your account.

cheers

Ned

---

### Post by dcostelloe on 2006-02-04
Anyone experience problems with updates to Easydns using DDCLIENT?

Seems that Wildcard does not work. My easydns config shows the ip's are correct on change but when i ping them one ip remains out of sync?

:cry:

---

### Post by malmjako on 2006-11-01
I experience the same problem with dyndns. I_believe_ it handled wildcarding correctly in Dapper, but not after installing Edgy... I have the following in my /etc/ddclient.conf: ```
# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=if, if=eth0
server=members.dyndns.org
login=my dyndns username
password='my dyndns password'
my dynamic DNS host name
wildcard=yes

```
After an update, the wildcarding is set to false. What could be wrong?

---

### Post by malmjako on 2006-11-04
RESOLVED!

The wildcard option has to be set before the host is specified in the file, like the following:```
# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=if, if=eth0
server=members.dyndns.org
wildcard=yes           <--------- before the host name
login=my dyndns username
password='my dyndns password'
my_dynamic_DNS_host_name.dyndns.org
```

---

