---
title: "10.10 - Ubuntu will not sleep / suspend, or hibernate - just a blank screen."
date: 2010-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-02
Hi all,

I installed Ubuntu 10.10 (64-bit) on my desktop and noticed that suspend and hibernate are utterly broken. When I try to do suspend or hibernate, the screen turns off for a few seconds, then it turns on and presents me with a black screen with a flashing underscore cursor (_). 

I am pretty sure it's not the NVIDIA drivers (which I dl'd and installed from Nvidia.com, by the way) because I did /etc/init.d/gdm stop, and tried to suspend from the command line, but it has the same problem.

I also tried installing the mainline 2.6.36 kernel from [here](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.36-maverick/). That resulted in the creation of two  additional GRUB entries, which thankfully didn't overwrite my 2.6.35 kernel setup, because the system won't get past the Ubuntu boot screen with .36 (or if it does, it's only in command line and there are no graphics).

I'm sure this issue has been beaten to death in the past, but I've only used Ubuntu with my laptop before and not my desktop, and I ironically didn't have issues with suspend on the laptop. Then again, I run 10.04 on the laptop and 10.10 on the desktop. :)

Any help would be GREATLY appreciated.

Thanks! :)

dt

---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-02
Anyone? Please.. this is driving me nuts! Haha

---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-02
Is there anything else I can try at this point?

---

### Post by geezerone on 2010-11-02
Can't hibernate/suspend either - just get blank screen and have to reboot. 

Clean install of Meerkat.

---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-02
Were you running Lucid before, on the same machine? I haven't run any other Ubuntu on this particular machine so idk if it's a 10.10 problem or just a general Linux issue :P

---

### Post by Z06Gal on 2010-11-03
When I installed, powermanagement-interface was not installed.  I installed it via synaptic and went to system > preferences > power management to fill in my settings and it has worked like a charm.   :)

---

### Post by dt_ on 2010-11-03
> **Z06Gal said:**
> When I installed, powermanagement-interface was not installed.  I installed it via synaptic and went to system > preferences > power management to fill in my settings and it has worked like a charm.   :)

It was already installed for me. For good measure, I tried reinstalling it, but that didn't help :( 
Thanks for the suggestion though.

---

### Post by geezerone on 2010-11-04
Powermanagement installed for me too on two different pcs and still no hibernate/sleep.

Annoying given that Windows 7 works flawlessly and in this day and age, saving power is not just a nice extra, but a necessity.

---

### Post by Gohran on 2010-11-07
dt,     Check the specs of your laptop and see if it has USB3.0? Is that is the case this may help you as the problem is related to loading of xhci_hcd module.  [http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1614891](http://georgia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1614891)

---

### Post by Morgoth1299 on 2011-01-02
I have the same problem, any help? 

when I suspend I get a lot of error messages and cannot resume.  
Please help!  

10.10  Toshiba Amd 63 ATI

---

### Post by DrkStrife on 2011-03-14
Has anyone resolved this? I am having the same problem.

Asus G73Jh

Linux F-117Linux 2.6.35-27-generic #48-Ubuntu SMP Tue Feb 22 20:25:46 UTC 2011 x86_64 GNU/Linux

EDIT: After a couple of weeks of researching on this problem. I found this post in the Ubuntu's help page. I did exactly as they tell you there and to my surprise it worked! (maybe because it is for an Asus too)

Well here is the link:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Asus_U36JC#Suspend/Resume](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Asus_U36JC#Suspend/Resume)

---

