---
title: "[16.04] SanDisk MP3 player no longer mounts automatically"
date: 2017-12-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jim_Henry on 2017-12-18
With my previous 12.04 machine, I was able to plug this SanDisk Clip Sport MP3 player in and have it automatically mount on /media and bring up a Nautilus window for it.  I could copy files over with a shell script or in a terminal or in Nautilus.

 I recently acquired a new machine with 16.04 installed from the LInux Laptop company, a Lenovo G51 if it matters.  The first time I plugged my MP3 player in, it worked as before (except mounting on /media/username/clip  instead of /media/clip).  But when I tried to plug it in and load the latest podcasts again a few days later, it wouldn't mount automatically.  I tried again after a reboot and it did the same.

I forced a mount using sudo and it worked, but I can't set its ownership to myself, so I have to use sudo in the terminal for every copy or delete of files on the player.  I can't seem to use Nautilus to drag and drop files onto it.  When I try "sudo chown" to set its ownership, I get:

chown: changing ownership of 'sdb': Operation not permitted

One of the earlier threads about someone having trouble with an MP3 player mounting suggested using dmesg to get log messages about USB devices, so here's the output of `dmesg | grep sdb`:

[128120.898269] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] 8245248 1024-byte logical blocks: (8.44 GB/7.86 GiB)
[128120.898432] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Write Protect is off
[128120.898436] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Mode Sense: 00 c0 00 00
[128120.898603] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Write cache: disabled, read cache: disabled, doesn't support DPO or FUA
[128120.907692]  sdb:
[128120.910561] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI removable disk

Do I need to edit /etc/fstab or something to make it mount automatically in the future?  I'm not sure what to put there.

---

