---
title: "19.10 Ubuntu Gnome-shell battery life"
date: 2019-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aeronutt on 2019-11-25
Dell Precision laptop.
It seems something's up with my 19.10 load with roughly 2x battery current usage of the other OS's I have loaded.
I can reload 19.10 from scratch, and watch battery usage as I configure, but I'd hate to have to do that.

Ideas?
Some info and data below.

Running 'top' doesn't reveal much.
All results below run with: battery power, screen dimmed to minimum, keyboard lighting off, TLP on.
Results from "more /sys/class/power_supply/BAT0/current_now"

19.10, Ubuntu Gnome-Shell, display scaling set to 1, xorg: 700000-800000
19.10, Ubuntu Gnome-Shell, display scaling set to 1, wayland: 700000-800000
19.10, Ubuntu-Mate: 400000-500000
19.04, KDE: 400000-500000
18.04, Ubuntu Gnome-Shell: 400000-500000

Each of the above is setup roughly the same (I'd guess 95% of the s/w I install is the same, but obviously versions are different).

---

### Post by kc1di on 2019-11-25
I use slimbook battery which does a good job of helping battery life 
you can get it[ here]("http://ubuntuhandbook.org/index.php/2019/05/slimbook-another-battery-saving-tool-for-ubuntu/"):

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2019-11-25
Thanks, I'll give slimbook battery a try and see what happens. Won't explain why this started, but I'm fine with a magic fix. I'll report back.

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2019-11-25
UPDATE...hmmm....it installs tlp (which I deleted assuming tlp and slimbook shouldn't be both activated), so I'm thinking this might just be an interface for tlp.

Another UPDATE: not a fan of slimbookbattery. TLP does the same for me, and slimbook added persistance to the wifi settings even after removal of the package. Wifi boots in the 'off' state now, even if I shutdown with wifi on and working. Ug.  Anyway...
Fresh install of 19.10 has high battery usage (roughly 2x of the other OS's I have loaded).  So, I'm leaving 19.10 for LTS or other.

Would love to find out why 19.04 is a battery hog, but it seems that's always left up to the devs, and wait for the next version.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2019-11-28
I just found [this tutorial]("http://ubuntuhandbook.org") that may be of help also - Sorry slimbook battery did not work for you.

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2019-11-28
No worries, thanks for the help.
Whenever I measure power usage, I set the display to the lowest setting.  That said, it's hard to measure apples to apples 100%.

As an update, I loaded Manjaro. Arch based w Gnome.  Same issue.  Nearly 2x the power of my Ubuntu LTS load.
So, it looks like the issue is either the kernel or Gnome. I might try loading another DE and see what happens. But at this point, I'm just prettying up 18.04 LTS and dealing with a few little things that were fixed in 19.10.

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2019-12-05
UPDATE.
I've used tlp-stat across several installs, and still unable to get battery usage of any distro using latest versions of gnome-shell close to that of 18.04 version.
However, KDE 19.04 and 19.10 both have battery power levels close to Ubuntu 18.04.

I'm convinced this is a gnome-shell issue, and not a kernel issue.  I may be switching to KDE, not all that happy about it, but battery life will be ~1.5x longer.

---

