---
title: "_amd64?"
date: 2009-12-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-12
Why does Ubuntu still refer to the 64-bit versions as amd64? It's already confusing and intimidating enough for first-time Linux users.

Most people know whether they have an AMD or Intel chip in their computer. If somebody has an Intel chip, it is counterintuitive to see "amd64" in the file name of the download.

Why not x86_64?

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-12
I agree, but AMD developed the standard for 64 bit, not Intel and I don't mind giving them their due by acknowledging that it is AMD64 I am running on my Intel chip.  Calling it xNN or similar would take away that implication.

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-12-12
How long did software companies refer to Intel Pentium *x* (or compatible) and even leave the (or compatible) off in the system requirements even though AMD was a strong competitor in the CPU market? How long have (or were) all PCs called IBM PCs or IBM PC compatible?

---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-15
Imagine you are new to Linux and you download a 64bit version of Ubuntu. When you see the file on your desktop it says "amd64". You know you have an Intel chip. You think, "Did I download the wrong version? Is this specific for AMD computers?". And with that, the experience of Ubuntu and Linux is already off to a bad start.

To me, this confusion is completely unnecessary and could be avoided by simply using a naming convention that is not brand specific.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2009-12-16
Don't mean to sound elitist or anything similar but if your going to be loading an operating system it should be assumed you have researched the basics. The state of computer literacy is because users were given complex machines but insufficient instructions. Folks need to grab the bull by the nose ring and take charge, not hold on to the tail and hope nothing bad comes out. It's the job of the informed to help these lost tail chasers.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-12-16
I agree the nomenclature is confusing, but it is fairly clear on the download page ;)

[http://www.ubuntu.com/GetUbuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/GetUbuntu/download)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-12-16
> **undoIT said:**
> Why does Ubuntu still refer to the 64-bit versions as amd64?
.........

Because it refers to the **Instruction Set** that the CPU supports, not the CPU.

Intel invented the "X86" instruction set, so all software that runs on this is referred to that way because that was the label Intel gave to it way back then. AMD invented this 64-bit instruction set, so the name they gave it sticks for the same reason.

Most Intel 64-bit chips support this instruction set, (but not all), so you have to be sure that your 64-bit CPU specifically supports this instruction set to use any software written for it.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-16
> **undoIT said:**
> Imagine you are new to Linux and you download a 64bit version of Ubuntu. When you see the file on your desktop it says "amd64". You know you have an Intel chip. You think, "Did I download the wrong version? Is this specific for AMD computers?". And with that, the experience of Ubuntu and Linux is already off to a bad start.

To me, this confusion is completely unnecessary and could be avoided by simply using a naming convention that is not brand specific.

We have two chief instruction sets in play at the moment, the longest used of them was invented by Intel and named by them (x86). The new one was invented by AMD and named by them (AMD64).  I agree that it is confusing, but it is clear on the download page and the assumption is that people READ the web pages where they obtain such important things as 64 bit operating systems.  I think this is a great introduction to Linux...you need to read the web page to know if you are downloading the right version.  I can't think of a more appropriate beginning lesson in Linux than "read the instructions".

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-12-16
> **blueridgedog said:**
>   I can't think of a more appropriate beginning lesson in Linux than "read the instructions".


+....uhhh, at least 1,024!

---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-16
On the download page it says nothing about the 64bit version being compatible with both Intel and AMD chips. There is also no mention that "amd64" will be in the filename accompanied by a short explanation of why.

This seems like such a simple change to make - whoever creates the iso images for Ubuntu can just place the cursor after "amd", use backspace three times and then type, "x86_" or even just leave it as "_64".

The average user who is downloading could probably care less that the instruction set is properly identified in the filename and is more concerned about everything just working and not having to deal with headaches while using their computer.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-12-16
Shouldn't it be Intel_32, by those merits?  Intel do license their x32 tech to AMD, don't they?

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-12-16
Honestly, you're doing well to find an "average" user who knows whether or not they have 64 bit hardware in the first place!

---

### Post by DaVince21 on 2009-12-16
> On the download page it says nothing about the 64bit version being compatible with both Intel and AMD chips. There is also no mention that "amd64" will be in the filename accompanied by a short explanation of why.
Well, no. They don't need to explain that as it'd just confuse the less tech-literate. Instead you just see the term "64-bit version", which will be a lot clearer to those who *know* they bought a 64-bit system, no matter what the brand is.

The page detects what the recommended download is anyway, as far as I'm aware.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-12-16
> **undoIT said:**
> The average user who is downloading could probably care less that the instruction set is properly identified in the filename and is more concerned about everything just working and not having to deal with headaches while using their computer.

I beg to differ ;)

The average user downloads the file and uses it without any problem. It is the minority that ask questions. In that case the question is answered by even the most cursory google search.

---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-16
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> I beg to differ ;)

The average user downloads the file and uses it without any problem. It is the minority that ask questions. In that case the question is answered by even the most cursory google search.

Maybe I'm in the minority but I have to disagree. I think a lot of people are paying attention to this kind of stuff because Ubuntu is new and they feel like they need to pay attention to get it right.

Perhaps seasoned users overlook this. I just thought of a good example:

My mom was using a website I am developing. I had put in this new method for displaying info in a popup window. There was a small error in the way I created the JavaScript that caused the status bar to be perpetually in motion at halfway finished. It is something I kind of noticed but didn't even think was an issue. However, when my mom was trying to use the site, she couldn't get past the fact that the page had not fully loaded and it caused the process to be confusing (it was fully loaded, just the status bar was indicating that it wasn't).

Having done tech support for years and through interacting with thousands of people who visit the websites I build, it has been my experience that people DON'T read instructions, can get tripped up on these kinds of things and if something has zero value but might cause confusion, it is best to eliminate it.

---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-16
> **ST3ALTHPSYCH0 said:**
> Honestly, you're doing well to find an "average" user who knows whether or not they have 64 bit hardware in the first place!

I remember going into Best Buy and Circuit City years ago and overhearing the sales people. One of the pitches they used to convince customers to buy laptops was that the laptop contains a 64bit processor and will be more future-proof since it could give better performance once the new version of Windows is released. (I also remember gloating over the fact that I was already running 64bit on my laptop with Ubuntu).

There are probably a lot of non-techy computer users who know they have a 64bit CPU.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-16
A better topic for discussion is how to get the 64 bit version in more wide spread circulation.  The flash issue with 64 bit is limiting now (not that it can't be overcome, but the process of installing the alpha version from Adobe is a bit technical).

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-12-16
> **blueridgedog said:**
> A better topic for discussion is how to get the 64 bit version in more wide spread circulation.  The flash issue with 64 bit is limiting now (not that it can't be overcome, but the process of installing the alpha version from Adobe is a bit technical).

Really ? I do not have any problems with flash in 64 bit Ubuntu or Fedora.

Simply install flashpulgin-nonfree

---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-16
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> Really ? I do not have any problems with flash in 64 bit Ubuntu or Fedora.

Simply install flashpulgin-nonfree

I believe that this still installs the 32bit version of flash with nspluginwrapper. It is very easy to manually install the alpha 64bit native version if you know how. Ideally, the native version would be the default for installing from repos, because even though it is still alpha, it seems to work better than the 32bit version.

---

### Post by ean5533 on 2009-12-16
> **undoIT said:**
> I believe that this still installs the 32bit version of flash with nspluginwrapper. It is very easy to manually install the alpha 64bit native version if you know how. Ideally, the native version would be the default for installing from repos, because even though it is still alpha, it seems to work better than the 32bit version.

I disagree, the 64-bit alpha is QUITE buggy. Obviously it's going to get better, and nspluginwrapper isn't bug-free either, but that alpha version is not something we want to be putting out as a default.

---

### Post by ean5533 on 2009-12-16
> **undoIT said:**
> I think a lot of people are paying attention to this kind of stuff...

...it has been my experience that people DON'T read instructions.
You kind of contradicting yourself there. So do users read the details, or do they not?

The Ubuntu download page is idiotically easy; you go to it, click the download button, and you're golden. You want the 64-bit version? Click "Alternative download options" and click "64-bit version". Done. 

Just because the name of the ISO file says AMD64 in it, I sincerely doubt anyone who was specifically looking for a 64-bit version of the OS is going to trip on that.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2009-12-16
Flash, flash flash, why oh why is flash such a problem. Except for my first installs of Linux way back eight years ago do I remember ever having an issue with flash. I just don't get it. I'm using 64bit  and not a single glitch. Zero nada null zip nuttin at all. Oh well I guess I'm just lucky with flash installs.

---

### Post by spoon_ on 2009-12-16
It would be better if they called it x86-64 instead of amd64. Maybe there's a legal reason or something.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2009-12-16
I agree - sort of,

the file name should be _32bit.iso  or _64bit.iso

to me that seems to make it fool proof..?


as for flash / karmic that's a different (/disappointing) kettle of fish

---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-16
> **ean5533 said:**
> I disagree, the 64-bit alpha is QUITE buggy. Obviously it's going to get better, and nspluginwrapper isn't bug-free either, but that alpha version is not something we want to be putting out as a default.

I'm sure there are some bugs that I haven't noticed. With the 32bit plugin, Firefox frequently crashes while navigating Google analytics and it also seems to consume more CPU than the 64bit version while running the background. I guess for some people it works better, for others it doesn't.

---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-16
> **ean5533 said:**
> You kind of contradicting yourself there. So do users read the details, or do they not?

The Ubuntu download page is idiotically easy; you go to it, click the download button, and you're golden. You want the 64-bit version? Click "Alternative download options" and click "64-bit version". Done. 

Just because the name of the ISO file says AMD64 in it, I sincerely doubt anyone who was specifically looking for a 64-bit version of the OS is going to trip on that.

My point is, a lot of people will just download the file without reading extensive instructions. Also, if a friend recommends the download and says to get the 64bit version, the person who is downloading may not take time to go to a separate page and read instructions.

However, after they have downloaded the file and go to burn the iso to CD, if they see "amd64" this may cause confusion. They may think something is wrong or they got the wrong version.

I really don't see why "amd" needs to be mentioned at all in the filename. Is there any good explanation for the value of having it there? I doubt that it is for legal reasons, because Fedora labels their 64bit version "x86_64".

---

### Post by baddog144 on 2009-12-16
> **spoon_ said:**
> It would be better if they called it x86-64 instead of amd64. Maybe there's a legal reason or something.

As far as I know, it's just because AMD devised the specs for the instruction set, and then other companies implemented after.

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-12-16
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> I agree the nomenclature is confusing, but it is fairly clear on the download page ;)

[http://www.ubuntu.com/GetUbuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/GetUbuntu/download)
I had to click on the link "Alternative download options, including Ubuntu installer for Windows" to see the information. 
> **ST3ALTHPSYCH0 said:**
> Honestly, you're doing well to find an "average" user who knows whether or not they have 64 bit hardware in the first place!

:) I had a 64-bit machine and didn't know it for four years, mainly because I never had any reason to research the matter.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-12-16
AMD64 is the official name for the architecture. Packages that are compiled for AMD64 have the word "amd64" in the file name, which would cause confusion if we changed the filename of the disc image. ("I can't find any packages for Intel 64-bit, only for AMD 64-bit!")

If people are getting confused by it, then maybe the download page should try and explain better - "The AMD64 download is appropriate for Intel 64-bit CPUs too". But AMD64 is the name of the architecture and it would cause more confusion if Ubuntu changed it and nobody else did.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-12-17
> **3rdalbum said:**
> 
.........
If people are getting confused by it, then maybe the download page should try and explain better - "T**he AMD64 download is appropriate for Intel 64-bit CPUs too**". But AMD64 is the name of the architecture and it would cause more confusion if Ubuntu changed it and nobody else did.

No it isn't, there are 64-bit Intel CPUs that **do not** support it.

I posted this **fact** earlier.

---

### Post by ean5533 on 2009-12-17
> **dcstar said:**
> I posted this **fact** earlier.

Forgive my ignorance, but I was unaware that there was any other 64-bit instruction sets, other than AMD64, that were supported by mainstream chips. What chips does Intel produce that are 64-bit but don't support AMD64? And what instruction sets DO they support instead?

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-12-17
Here's the [x86_64 Wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64).

---

### Post by Grenage on 2009-12-17
> **ean5533 said:**
> Forgive my ignorance, but I was unaware that there was any other 64-bit instruction sets, other than AMD64, that were supported by mainstream chips. What chips does Intel produce that are 64-bit but don't support AMD64? And what instruction sets DO they support instead?

IA-64, Itanium.

---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-17
> **ST3ALTHPSYCH0 said:**
> Here's the [x86_64 Wikipedia page](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64).

There we go. x86-64 was the original naming convention:

> The term x86-64 is the original naming of a 64-bit extension to the x86 instruction set specified by Advanced Micro Devices...

and:
> AMD later introduced the name AMD64 for marketing purposes; Intel introduced its Intel64 naming soon thereafter.

If that Wikipedia article is accurate, "amd64" is purely for marketing purposes and not the original name. Ubuntu should go with a vendor neutral naming convention.

I have nothing against AMD. I like both AMD and Intel and it is good that there is competition. However, choosing a vendor specific naming convention that may confuse new users seems like a poor choice, especially since it is so easy to fix.

Does Canonical have a contract with AMD?

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2009-12-17
if amd64 is wrong, is i386 ok? after all it's also a vendor specific name.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2009-12-17
> **Vaphell said:**
> if amd64 is wrong, is i386 ok? after all it's also a vendor specific name.

Not really directed to you, but to the whole thread.

i386 is the location of source files on 32-bit installations for Windows. amd64 is the location of source files on 64-bit installations of Windows.

The same is true for Ubuntu.

What's the problem?

I was kinda confused when I first messed with Ubuntu (around 8.04) since I did have an Intel processor, but it was 64-bit. Googling for info helps tons.

Not to mention that when I downloaded the server edition of 8.04, it recommended 64-bit. :) As far as I know, if they download the desktop version, it recommends 32-bit.

This is what it says on the download page:

> Alternative download options, including Ubuntu installer for Windows
Choose a version

Download Ubuntu 9.10
    This is the latest version, released in October of 2009 and maintained until 2011
Download Ubuntu 8.04 LTS
    Released in April 2008 and maintained until April 2011 - ideal for large deployments

Choose the architecture

32-bit version
    **This version is suitable for most computers**
64-bit version
   ** May provide additional capabilities for computers that are able to use 64-bit software**



---

### Post by undoIT on 2009-12-17
> **Vaphell said:**
> if amd64 is wrong, is i386 ok? after all it's also a vendor specific name.

I don't think i386 causes confusion in the same way amd64 does. "i" is just a letter. If it were "intel386", then yes.

Ideally, nonbrand specific naming conventions would be used whenever possible. But, the main point I'm trying to get at is that amd64 is not user-friendly and there are other options. Considering that x86-64 was the original term, there is no reason to use amd64.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-17
I agree it could be clearer, but don't object to the current setup.  

As far as flash goes, I guess I was just obsessive in wanting a native 64 bit version.

---

