---
title: "OO.org/MSWord compatability"
date: 2007-03-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mevets on 2007-03-05
I switch between MS Word 2003 at school and OO.org at home. I am wondering what format I should be sving my documents in to ensure I can edit documents going back and forth. I can save to .doc from oo.org and open it in word, but saving as a .doc in word will not allow me to open them in oo.org.

I have been saving them as RTFs, which has been for the most part been compatible. The only problem has been in formatting (headers and footers).

So, which format should I been saving documents as to ensure maximum compatibily?

---

### Post by ArieT on 2007-03-05
I haven;t tested it yet but you can try some plugins for MS Office for converting your ODF documents:

Take a look at [http://odf-converter.sourceforge.net/](http://odf-converter.sourceforge.net/) and [http://www.sun.com/software/star/openoffice/](http://www.sun.com/software/star/openoffice/) .

---

### Post by mevets on 2007-03-05
Thanks.

This great for home use, but I don't the school will be willing to install plugins.

I tried saving as html and it seems to be better formatting wise in both applications.

---

### Post by SyvanX on 2007-03-05
So you can't open .doc files generated by Word in OpenOffice?  That doesn't sound right, do you know what Word version they are being saved in?  The two programs should be reasonably compatible in the .doc format, that's how I manage to interoperate at school and home.

---

### Post by mevets on 2007-03-05
Documents generated in word won't on in oo.org. Maybe I should try again, but that was my experience. I got an I/O error.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-03-05
MS Word .doc format is virtually 100% compatible with the exception of some table formatting.  Try again as there really shouldn't be a problem opening and using and saving .doc format in OO.

---

### Post by mand0 on 2007-03-05
Could it be that your MS document is .docx which is the default Office 2007 format?  It should really be working... Try making a new .doc file in MS Office and copy over the text to the new file.

---

### Post by mevets on 2007-03-05
I think itd be best for me to try again, but no it is not a docx.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-03-05
What error message do you get when you try to open the .doc files?  Also, what version of OpenOffice are you using?

---

### Post by milton1 on 2007-03-05
Stick with rtf. It has the fewest compatability issues with both systems.

---

### Post by lamalex on 2007-03-05
make sure you're not saving as office 2007 document, it should be totally compatible, I take my documents home from school all the time with 0 problems. The only problems I run into are when i forget to save my OO.o as .doc and come in with a .odt. dont go with RTF, it straight up sucks.

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-03-05
rtf????  No.

---

### Post by SyvanX on 2007-03-05
You can set OpenOffice to save as .doc format by default.  I've only run into problems with auto fields in the header, especially non-page number fields.

---

