---
title: "9.04 / 9.10 Dual Boot Question"
date: 2009-07-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ninjapirate89 on 2009-07-29
Right now I have 9.04 installed with my /home on a seperate partition and I also have an empty partition that is about 6GB. If I install 9.10 in that free partition and have it get its settings from my 9.04 /home partition will it:

1. Work properly.

2. Not mess up my 9.04 installation.


I really want to watch as 9.10 progresses so if this works it would be perfect.

---

### Post by Katalog on 2009-08-10
I'd like to know if this is possible as well. I can afford to resize my drive in gparted and create a 30GB partition while booted from a live USB. I was wondering if I did that and then installed 9.10 to that partition if Grub 2 would take over and update everything autotmagically or would I have to do some configuration on my own as well to get a dual boot?

---

### Post by michy99 on 2009-08-10
> **ninjapirate89 said:**
> Right now I have 9.04 installed with my /home on a seperate partition and I also have an empty partition that is about 6GB. If I install 9.10 in that free partition and have it get its settings from my 9.04 /home partition will it:

1. Work properly.

2. Not mess up my 9.04 installation.


I really want to watch as 9.10 progresses so if this works it would be perfect.
The problem with using the same /home partition for both versions is that 9.10 will make changes in config files, and that could potentially cause problems with the 9.04 system.

---

### Post by Katalog on 2009-08-11
Yeah, Ive kind of decided against the dual boot idea. I think I'll just keep downloading then alphas as they come out and run them from live USB. Only a couple of months until final release anyway.

---

### Post by Barafu Albino Cheetah on 2009-08-11
I had no problems with several different Linuxes sharing the same /home, but they were essentially different folders, linked with symbolic links. Better don't mix folders from different distros. They should see thier own hidden folders from your /home. There are many ways to do it with symlinks.

---

### Post by ametalguitarist on 2009-10-16
I actually did install 9.10 on a new partition and grub didn't recognize my 9.04.  I tried adding 9.04 to menu.ls but it doesn't exist anymore in 9.10?  I couldn't find it anyway.  how do I get both 9.10 and 9.04 on the same boot screen?

---

