---
title: "10.04: I want to replace plymouth with usplash. Dependencies won't let me"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mehabox on 2010-05-01
Hello everyone. I have Radeon HD 4550, which works best with proprietary drivers(fglrx). Okay, so plymouth fails to cooperate with them, because of different memory spaces they're running in. In synaptic, I clearly see splashy and usplash. Usplash has no problems with fglrx, so I want to replace plymouth with it. When I try to do this, I see that many-many programs such as acpid, alsa-utils, avahi-daemon, gdm, Xorg, apt utils well, almost everything, depends on this **"little splash screen"**:lolflag: . What the hell, seriously? Why do you include other splash screens in the repo? Why do you invent unnecessary package dependencies just to keep users with a buggy splash?

---

### Post by polki@mac.com on 2010-05-01
There is always Debian if you want more control... I love Ubuntu, but sometimes I just go all out Debian, because of control.

---

### Post by mehabox on 2010-05-02
> **polki@mac.com said:**
> There is always Debian if you want more control... I love Ubuntu, but sometimes I just go all out Debian, because of control.
Prior to this I've been in love with Ubuntu, now it's a sympathy :) There are some other threads appeared since mine, so it appears that plymouth is now in "core".

Somebody opened a bug ticket on lauchpad about this:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/531331](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/plymouth/+bug/531331)

So I guess me and others would post there.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-05-02
> **mehabox said:**
> Okay, so plymouth fails to cooperate with them, because of different memory spaces they're running in.
What is happening?
Fglrx should work with plymouth.
Have you tried removing splash from the kernel options during boot?

---

### Post by ketheriel on 2010-07-04
> **lavinog said:**
> What is happening?
Fglrx should work with plymouth.
Have you tried removing splash from the kernel options during boot?


Wait... now I am confused... Does the ATI proprietary driver is KMS enabled? because I thought that was what was shattering Plymouth...

Plymouth is a great piece of software! Good call from Ubuntu in using it... the sad thing is ATI proprietary drivers ;)

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-07-07
KMS is not supported by fglrx, but plymouth should still work without KMS.

---

