---
title: "ddclient"
date: 2005-04-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mathjazz on 2005-04-10
Hi!

I'd like to ssh to my computer, which is connected to a router, which uses ADSL link to access the internet.

The problem is, that my ddclient sends local IP address to the dyndns.org service, instead of external one. What do I need to change in /etc/ddclient.conf?

Currently, it looks like this:
```

# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf

pid=/var/run/ddclient.pid
protocol=dyndns2
use=if, if=eth0
server=members.dyndns.org
login=mathjazz
password=*<pass>*
thinkservus.homelinux.org

```

---

### Post by soul_rebel on 2005-04-10
ddclient must be configured to take advantage of the router, not to use a local interface (eth0), see if you router is supported or if there is a other workaround

---

### Post by az on 2005-04-10
Since your router has the external address, it should be handling the dynamic dns client.  If your router does not support this, there is a way to get a dyndns client to run from a lan machine.  The issue here is that not only do you have to get the external address to the dyndns server, but you are going to have to route ssh traffic (or whatever else) from your router to your lan machine anyway.

So, what router are you using?

---

### Post by mathjazz on 2005-04-10
Hi!

I use Linksys [WRT54G](http://www.linksys.com/products/product.asp?grid=33&scid=35&prid=601).

---

### Post by mathjazz on 2005-04-11
I have found this text in "ddclient --help":
```

    -use=fw      : obtain IP from the firewall specified by -fw {type|address}.
    -use=if      : obtain IP from the -if {interface}.
    -use=ip      : obtain IP from -ip {address}.
    -use=linksys : obtain IP from Linksys FW at the -fw {address}

```

But I don't know how to use it :/

---

### Post by hashimoto on 2005-04-11
[QUOTE=mathjazz]Hi!

I use Linksys [WRT54G](http://www.linksys.com/products/product.asp?grid=33&scid=35&prid=601).[/QUOTE]
 Looking at your routers manual, it seems to be able to update your external IP to the DynDNS server all by itself. No need to use ddclient. See manual, page 19 for setup. 

To get the ssh working all the way to your PC you still need to set up port forwarding or something in your router. I'm unable to help on that, unfortunaltely.

---

### Post by mip on 2005-04-11
Slightly off topic but when does ddclient run? On boot?

---

### Post by dabeej on 2005-04-11
Try using the:

use=web

Get's ip from web.

---

### Post by mip on 2005-04-11
[QUOTE=dabeej]Try using the:

use=web

Get's ip from web.[/QUOTE]

This is what I use.

do

#ddclient -daemon=0 -debug -verbose -noquiet

once you've added use=web

---

### Post by az on 2005-04-11
[QUOTE=mip]Slightly off topic but when does ddclient run? On boot?[/QUOTE]

On boot or as a daemon (check every so many minute), or both, set as you wish.  If the ip address is not changed, it does not send it and violate dyndns protocol (which gets you kicked off)

---

### Post by Gandalf on 2005-04-11
[QUOTE=mathjazz]Hi!

I use Linksys [WRT54G](http://www.linksys.com/products/product.asp?grid=33&scid=35&prid=601).[/QUOTE]
 well why updating it from the linux do it in WRT45G directly
go to [http://192.168.1.1](http://192.168.1.1) (default linksys router)
enter admin password when you get to the index click on "DDNS" which is a sub-tab of the  SETUP tab... and fill the info, this way linksys will update the ip once it's changed....

---

### Post by mathjazz on 2005-04-12
Thanks, guys!

Now, if I would like to ssh to one of the computers in my network, how do I specify which one do I want?

I mean, if I do "ssh [email]un@pass:my.domain.name[/email]" the router doesn not know which computer do I have in mind, right? ;)

EDIT:
look at the page 38 in the [manual](ftp://ftp.linksys.com/pdf/wrt54gv1.1_ug.pdf). Do I need to do:
ssh | 22 | to | 22 | Both | 192.168.1.100 | X,
if I'd like to ssh to the computer with local IP 192.168.1.100?

---

### Post by mip on 2005-04-12
[QUOTE=azz]On boot or as a daemon (check every so many minute), or both, set as you wish.  If the ip address is not changed, it does not send it and violate dyndns protocol (which gets you kicked off)[/QUOTE]

It seems to run on boot as default. I'm used to it running as a daemon . How do I make the change?

---

### Post by az on 2005-04-12
sudo dpkg-reconfigure ddclient, or just edit the config in /etc

---

### Post by mip on 2005-04-13
[QUOTE=azz]sudo dpkg-reconfigure ddclient, or just edit the config in /etc[/QUOTE]

Great thanks. That worked.

---

### Post by doc_holiday on 2005-05-29
Is it possible to configure ddclient for 2 dynamic dns names?

---

