---
title: "Help! Not loading blacklisted module fglrx"
date: 2013-04-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jpaulb on 2013-04-10
Ubuntu 12.04
I bought a Sapphire Radeon HD7750, downloaded the latest drivers "amd-driver-installer-catalyst-13.3-beta3-linux-x86.x86_64", finally got them compiled and installed with dpkg -i.
i tried to launch darktable and get this warning

> darktable
Setting of real/effective user Id to 0/0 failed
WARNING: Not loading blacklisted module fglrx
FATAL: Module fglrx not found.
Error! Fail to load fglrx kernel module! Maybe you can switch to root user to load kernel module directly
X Error of failed request:  BadRequest (invalid request code or no such operation)
  Major opcode of failed request:  156 ()
  Minor opcode of failed request:  19
  Serial number of failed request:  12
  Current serial number in output stream:  12



I tried modeprobe fglrx get a warning 
> sudo modprobe fglrx
WARNING: Not loading blacklisted module fglrx
FATAL: Module fglrx not found.




I found a fle called fglrx.conf containing
> # This file was installed by fglrx
# Do not edit this file manually

blacklist radeon
alias fglrx fglrx
alias radeon off
alias lbm-radeon off

Where do I go from here?

---

### Post by sourchier on 2013-06-24
I found that the driver was blacklisted in /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-local.conf. After removing that entry the driver started working.

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2013-06-24
hi
on your join date to linix i see you are not a noob. but if this driver is blacklisted by default - keep your imergency disk by your hand. 
by the side - i run the same system (but differnt hardware ! ) and can't find an entry for the fgrlx driver.
but there must be a reason for black listing. much fun with gaiming. (sorry for my english - i'm a german)
ciao

---

