---
title: "Can't send files to trash"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lavadisco on 2008-11-08
Hi,

When I try to delete files, I get the message "cannot move file to trash, do you want to delete file immediately?". I want to be able to move files to the trash. I have an Ubuntu and a Win XP partition. I get the same behavior on both partitions when deleting from Ubuntu (Intrepid). I have been reading this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=771076&highlight=move+file+trash](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=771076&highlight=move+file+trash)

And it seems to be what I'm looking for, however, the users in the thread are just a little too advanced for me and I need clearer instructions. Is anybody up for it? I will try my best to meet you halfway.

---

### Post by rokytnji on 2008-11-08
Here is a easy tutorial.[http://maketecheasier.com/how-to-bypass-the-trash-and-delete-a-file-completely/2008/01/09](http://maketecheasier.com/how-to-bypass-the-trash-and-delete-a-file-completely/2008/01/09)

---

### Post by Andreas1 on 2008-11-09
> **rokytnji said:**
> Here is a easy tutorial.[http://maketecheasier.com/how-to-bypass-the-trash-and-delete-a-file-completely/2008/01/09](http://maketecheasier.com/how-to-bypass-the-trash-and-delete-a-file-completely/2008/01/09)

i think you misunderstood the question, i take it lavadisco wants to be able to move things to the trash but it is not possible.

> **lavadisco said:**
> Hi,

When I try to delete files, I get the message "cannot move file to trash, do you want to delete file immediately?". I want to be able to move files to the trash. I have an Ubuntu and a Win XP partition. I get the same behavior on both partitions when deleting from Ubuntu (Intrepid). I have been reading this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=771076&highlight=move+file+trash](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=771076&highlight=move+file+trash)

And it seems to be what I'm looking for, however, the users in the thread are just a little too advanced for me and I need clearer instructions. Is anybody up for it? I will try my best to meet you halfway.

i just followed that link and tried out what one of them said, it worked:

you have to run "gksudo gedit", open /etc/fstab and edit the line corresponding to the partition in question. add uid=1000 as an option. (uid means user id and 1000 is you). here is mine for example:
before:
```
UUID="4C28F7DD28F7C44C"	/media/myPlace/	ntfs	defaults	0	0
```
after:
```
UUID="4C28F7DD28F7C44C"	/media/myPlace/	ntfs	uid=1000	0	0
```

to make it take effect you have to unmount the drive and then open an terminal and type "mount -a" (tells the computer to mount everything in fstab)
if you don't feel secure, you can post the content of your /etc/fstab and we will see what to do with it. and thanks for that link, i have had the same issue as well, now my trash works on ntfs :)

---

### Post by lavadisco on 2008-11-09
Thanks! 

I did this:

```
gksudo gedit /home/etc/fstab
```

And then fstab opened in a text editor, but there was nothing in it! However, when I go directly to the etc folder and open it the regular way, I see the lines of code I'm looking for. Why don't I see anything when I use gedit?

Another question: I have my ntfs drives auto-mounting on boot via NTFS Configuration Tool. Will the "mount -a" command interfere with this at all?

---

### Post by lavadisco on 2008-11-09
Heh, nevermind...  right, "/etc/fstab"... duh.

---

### Post by lavadisco on 2008-11-09
Okay, that seems to have worked. HOWEVER - while I am now able to put files in the trash from my ntfs partition, my ubuntu partition still will not do it! How do I fix that?

---

### Post by Andreas1 on 2008-11-09
> **lavadisco said:**
> Okay, that seems to have worked. HOWEVER - while I am now able to put files in the trash from my ntfs partition, my ubuntu partition still will not do it! How do I fix that?

hm, that is interesting. i don't really have a clue here, usually this works by default.
is the ubuntu partition formatted with ext3? or: did you set it up manually when installing or did you let ubuntu decide how to format the drive? i am afraid you will need the help of someone more experienced than me here...

---

### Post by lavadisco on 2008-11-09
It looks like fstab says my Ubuntu partition is ext3, but I'm not sure because I don't know if it's sda5 or 6:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=838fec2b-6f58-49a2-a8f1-73e890cc86df / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=ab69a96f-201f-4aa0-a131-4763b8875ce5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/win\040drive ntfs-3g uid=1000,locale=C 0 0
```

However, I certainly did not specify this when I installed Intrepid, it did it all by itself.

---

### Post by Andreas1 on 2008-11-10
your fstab entry looks exactly like mine, the reason for your trash problem must be elsewhere.
unlike the ntfs drive, on an ext3 partition the trash should work by default.
i only found this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=932862&highlight=trash+ext3]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=932862&highlight=trash+ext3"), but i really think the problem is something else there, but just in case :(

---

### Post by lavadisco on 2008-11-10
Thanks for the help, will give it a try!

---

