---
title: "10.10 Boot Error - UVCVideo"
date: 2010-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by canadacam39 on 2010-11-22
Hi everyone,

So I recently upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10. I installed Ubuntu at 10.04, which was great. My only issue was I had a long initialization-thing at boot and when coming out of hibernate, and according to the screen I got it had something to do with UVCVideo. So I created a thread and got a result: no more errors! Here's the thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1579524&highlight=canadacam39](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1579524&highlight=canadacam39)

So everything was good, until I upgraded to 10.10. The boot errors came back, and since my computer takes so long to boot, it would actually be quicker with Windows! So I immediately tried the things from the previous thread, but nothing worked.

I did a clean install and tried again with the procedures, still nothing. I did another clean install, but I haven't done anything yet(waiting for a solution).

So, what I am asking, is if somebody can please help me get rid of the errors? They are getting on my nerves! The webcam doesn't work anyway (with Ubuntu) and I'm not bothered if it stays broken.
I have a Vaio VGN-FZ21S, did a lsusb and the webcam model (copied from terminal):

Bus 001 Device 002: ID 05ca:183b Ricoh Co., Ltd Visual Communication Camera VGP-VCC8 [R5U870]

I've also attached a picture of the error.

Thanks!
Cameron

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-11-22
Hello again! :-)
I have a similar camera and the fix from Launchpad still works for me in Lucid/Meerkat and Natty too! The messages are gone during a normal boot and the camera works ok. But if I hibernate the camera is never recognised again until I reboot. Suspend works fine though - no problem.
Maybe try the fix again by copy/pasting the 4 lines in to your terminal one at a time (to make sure there are no typos) :-)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/120434](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/120434)

---

### Post by canadacam39 on 2010-11-23
> **Quackers said:**
> Hello again! :-)
I have a similar camera and the fix from Launchpad still works for me in Lucid/Meerkat and Natty too! The messages are gone during a normal boot and the camera works ok. But if I hibernate the camera is never recognised again until I reboot. Suspend works fine though - no problem.
Maybe try the fix again by copy/pasting the 4 lines in to your terminal one at a time (to make sure there are no typos) :-)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/120434](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/120434)

Works like a charm, was just experimenting with blacklisting it, but at least the camera works now! The only "issue" I've got is at boot it keeps going _ for a while. Any ideas, or is that normal?
Thanks!
Cameron

---

