---
title: "9.10 filesystem checks at startup"
date: 2009-12-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stallvalds on 2009-12-31
So, when I boot my laptop to ubuntu (I am dual-booting with win7 enterprise), it will randomly scan for filesystem checks before booting. Is this normal? If so, can it be disabled? I never had this prob with 9.04.

---

### Post by Pollox on 2009-12-31
This feature has been in Ubuntu for a while, so I'm surprised you didn't encounter it before in 9.04.  It's scheduled to do so every 25 (or some other number, I don't remember) times you reboot, unless you're on battery power.  You should be able to hit escape to stop it, but unless you're in a hurry, it's a good idea to let it do its thing.  Not sure on disabling it entirely.

---

### Post by Herman on 2009-12-31
I agree with Pollox in the post above.

File system checks are very important and are needed to keep the file system healthy.
All file systems need checking once in a while.
This idea is not restricted to Ubuntu, it applies to all operating systems.

Sometimes it can happen at an inconvenient time, when you're in a hurry.
If you want to you can easily run a file system check in Ubuntu ahead of time instead of waiting until the time limit or the number of mounts count to max out and cause the file system check to be run automatically.
Just boot a Ubuntu Live CD, open GParted (Gnome Partition Editor), and right-click on your Ubuntu partition.
Click 'Check', and then hit 'Apply', two times. 
That will run a better file system check than the automatic one and reset your time limit and mount counter so the file system check won't happen automatically when you're not ready. 

Windows file systems need to be checked too, with CHKDSK once in a while. 
For a Windows file system check you need a Windows installation disk. 
You boot it to a console and run CHKDSK /R if you want a thorough file system check, or CHKDSK /F if you just want a quick one. 
They don't give out Windows CDs when you buy a computer anymore like they used to.
I imagine most Windows users just take their computers to somebody to fix when they get slow or start freezing up or won't boot anymore or whatever. 
People probably pay to have a file system check run for them.

With Ubuntu you get it for free. :)

---

### Post by Herman on 2009-12-31
If it's happening at *every* boot-up it's not normal and probably means there's a problem the automatic file system check isn't quite able to fix.

The file system check in GParted will fix it though, it runs with more powerful options.

---

### Post by dspdude on 2010-01-26
To disable filesystem checks completely (not advised), run

$ tune2fs -c 0 /dev/sdaX

where X is the partition to disable counting. For a list, run
$ mount

to see which partitions to apply it to.

Instead of "-c 0", set it to "-c 100" to check ever 100 times.

---

### Post by Wollombi on 2010-02-01
> **Pollox said:**
> This feature has been in Ubuntu for a while, so I'm surprised you didn't encounter it before in 9.04.  It's scheduled to do so every 25 (or some other number, I don't remember) times you reboot, unless you're on battery power.  You should be able to hit escape to stop it, but unless you're in a hurry, it's a good idea to let it do its thing.  Not sure on disabling it entirely.

I think what OP is experiencing is similar to the problem I'm having with Karmic's way of going about it.  In Jaunty and previous versions, the check would run while in the boot splash screen, and stay at that screen until the check was complete, then continue to a login prompt.  This meant that once in a while it took some time to boot to a login, but I could always hit escape and skip it if I was in a hurry.  Root partitions still function this way, but now on other partitions, it barely gives me time to see that it is happening, much less identify the drive (it only tells you the UUID now and not the mount point), takes you to a boot prompt, and allows you to log in.  Well, guess what, all my data is on that secondary partition, and many things on my desktop reference files in that partion, etc.  I got into this habit years ago.  1. makes for smaller images of the OS, and I back my data up differently, and 2. Data doesn't have to be restored if the OS goes south for whatever reason.  

This new fsck paradigm, while giving you a desktop quicker, cripples mine because of this, and it's a large partition so I don't get the use of it quickly, and I don't have the opportunity to skip it like the old way.  Anyone have suggestions on how to make Karmic do it's automatic file system checks like Jaunty did?

---

