---
title: "(8.04) Anyone gone from Compiz 0.7.6 to 0.7.8 yet?"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
The other day I noticed that [0.7.8 had been released]("http://forum.compiz-fusion.org/showthread.php?p=66003#post66003") and wanted to upgrade to it to see if it might help with some of the tearing problems I've (and apparently plenty others) have been having. And just to update period.. 

There's some tarballs you can download but, well to be honest I'm just to nervous to try something like that without a step by step walk-through. 

So, I was looking for one here and didn't seem to find anything on 0.7.8, which surprised me. 

Any thoughts? Is it meant primarily for 8.10 maybe, or are people just waiting for it to pop up in repositories?  Would installing it this way need to be done in a special way, uninstall old.. loose all my settings?

Thanks for any insight.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-01
[I REALLY DON'T GET IT](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=965148)

Why does everybody love to stick with long obsolete versions? 

0.79 from shames repo has been available for month.

Protobuf extension should remove all glitches and performance probs. Instead, they waste their time trying to downgrade... 

[ ] reasonable

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
Hey thanks for the reply and that link. I do feel you and wanting to upgrade instead of downgrade. I like to upgrade to newer version of everything I have as soon as I can. Unless of course I need to downgrade to resolve some compatibility problems, obviously.

Sorry to sound stupid here, but is .79 newer that .7.8 ?

Edit: Ok after looking at the screenshot provided there I see it's listed as .7.9 so .. yeah. But, I wonder why that's not announced on their site like 7.8 is? Is it an unofficial release? Not "stable" ?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-01
Oh no worries ^^

Yes it is, it's one of the, or more likely THE best maintained and up to date repository available. It's pretty much the compiz-git version.

[You can get infos here](http://shame.tuxfamily.org/repo/?cat=11)

*edit*

The only problem you could encounter is compiz-wrapper, which is in official repo.

Just select packages manually if the metapackages won't install cause of copiz-wrapper.

Just make it look like in my screenshot :) Everything should be fine then.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
I don't know what compiz-wrapper is but I will do my best to educate myself with the links you've provided :)

I'll tell ya though, I'm running two monitors on two video cards so that's the only think a little out of the norm compared to many users, so as long as compiz-wrapper is something to handle that I'd think I should run into any suprises outside of what normal users see. 

(Although, I often times run into surprises ;))

Edit: do you reckon' it'll solve this:

"GConf backend: There is an unsupported value at path /apps/compiz/plugins/scale/allscreens/options/initiate_edge. Settings from this path won't be read. Try to remove that value so that operation can continue properly."

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
The first step of your step-by-step over there:

sudo apt-get libprotobuf0 libprotobuf-dev libprotobuf-java protobuf-compiler python-protobuf

is giving me an error, I added install:

sudo apt-get install libprotobuf0 libprotobuf-dev libprotobuf-java protobuf-compiler python-protobuf

and it still says couldn't find package libprotobuf0

..is there a repo I need to add first?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-01
Oh, I'm sry, missed you're running hardy.

In Intrepid they are in the universe repo, however, for hardy you'll have to add these two lines:
```

deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/davidf/ubuntu hardy main
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/davidf/ubuntu hardy main

```

```
sudo apt-get update
```

Continue as above.

To fix your error message, run:
```

gconf-editor /apps/compiz/plugins/scale/allscreens/options

```

[[img]http://img526.imageshack.us/img526/4145/screenshot40rt3.th.png[/img]](http://img526.imageshack.us/img526/4145/screenshot40rt3.png)

And remove the entry...(rightclick, unset key, close gconf-editor)

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
Thanks :)

However, another problem. 

When I get to:

```
wget http://download.tuxfamily.org/shames/A42A6CF5.gpg -O- | apt-key add -
```

I get:

```
gpg: no writable keyring found: eof
gpg: error reading `-': general error
gpg: import from `-' failed: general error
```

Also, when running apt-get update:
```

W: GPG error: http://download.tuxfamily.org ./ Release: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 73E6B0FAA42A6CF5
W: You may want to run apt-get update to correct these problems
```

Also, now I'm being told I have 14 updates, but I need to do a partial update, so I try, and it fails.

However I do see a buncha stuff in package manager for 7.9.. should i skip that step, and go on with purge/install?

Edit: I apologize for being so much trouble..

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-01
You may install packages without adding the key file as well, but... You prlly did sth wrong.
The wget file is NOT to be appended to sources.list. You got that right, did you?

Further, you'll have to add shames repo to your list first, then run ```
sudo apt-get update
```

NOW run wget, after shames repo is added and your apt aware of it.


Further, simply add all the packages manually through synaptic.

The screenshot should show everything compiz related from the repo. What isn't installable, is to be omitted.

Humm, dunno what else I could have forgotten to mention. Should be 16pkg in total to be installable.

Every 0.78 related pkg is to be ignored, so when additional changes tell you that other packages have to be removed if you chose one, hit abort and chose the next one...

*EDIT*

You've got wget installed, do you?
To make sure, just run:
```

sudo apt-get install wget
```

If you have it installed already it will tell you that wget is already the newest version.

*Another edit*

MAKE SURE you copy the whole line as is. Not the dash at the end of it!

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
I followed your step by step on the linked thread, post number six.

The only change was your first step, i added 'install' to the apt-get command. 

Then i opened sources.list, at the bottom pasted in the code, saved.

Then tried next step, to add the key, and got the error. So did apt-get update thinking that may help, and got that other error.

Edit: yeah i have wget, and it looks like it downloads the file fine:

```
Length: 1,690 (1.7K) [application/octet-stream]

100%[====================================>] 1,690         --.--K/s             

15:53:27 (240.34 MB/s) - `-' saved [1690/1690]
``` 

...and then the error.

What do you mean by "MAKE SURE you copy the whole line as is. Not the dash at the end of it!" 

I'm copy/pasting what's listed. But there IS a dash at the end. If I try it without the dash I get a broken pipe msg.

Edit again: could it be something with the ./ at the end of the source.list entry? It's the only one in there with that.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-01
Really strange, I'm able to add it as simple user.

Anyway, a buddy just came in and I told him about this issue... He said, somehow, you have to be root to be able to add the key.

Really really strange, but he even made a note into his sources.list.

OK, try it, line per line:
```

sudo -i
apt-get update
wget http://download.tuxfamily.org/shames/A42A6CF5.gpg -O- | apt-key add -
exit

```

Don't forget to exit!

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
Ok.. your friend was right, that worked and got the key added.

So I moved on, and things have gone to hell. I started with the purge command. Got errors with ccsm, couldn't remove, etc. 

Went into package manager, got broken packages link, tried to remove the broken compiz packages. Removed everything i could from in there. 

Yet running a purge still gives me an error. 

Also getting msg saying updates availble in top right cornder of screen, but they're broken if you try too. Errors out.

When I try to reinstall everything I get more errors. It's a mess. Also, now when moving windows to my second monitor they break going across. 

I don't know what to do, any ideas? 

I gotta appointment to go to right now though, sadly, so I won't be back for a few hours. 

Any ideas would be awesome. Thanks for your help.

sudo install of compiz gives me: 

```
ome packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.

Since you only requested a single operation it is extremely likely that
the package is simply not installable and a bug report against
that package should be filed.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  compiz-fusion-gnome: Depends: compiz-gnome (>= 0.7.9) but it is not going to be installed
E: Broken packages

```

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-01
Ignorable, compiz-fusion-gnome is only a metapackage, which actually doesn't contain any libs.

If you have the 16 libs which my screenshot show installed, try and enjoy it. Don't force the packages if they don't want to.

To check if compiz is installed, you may run the which command:
```

docter[~] which compiz
/usr/bin/compiz
docter[~] 

```

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
Thanks, will check that when I get home. But it wasn't really letting me do much of anything, I couldn't install any of the compiz stuff..

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2008-11-01
Yes, on IBM Thinkpad R31 with Intel Graphics I went from 8.04 to 8.10 with 0.7.8 and wouldn't boot, black screen trying to load desktop.  0.7.8 freezes pc's dead with many Intel graphics, and perhaps others.  I've seen other people with nvidia with problems.

Developers broke compiz for a number of configurations.  The official fix "version 1:0.7.8-0ubuntu4.1" is to blacklist a bunch of graphics hardware such that compiz isn't used.  See Launchpad Bug #259385.  I presume compiz runs the way they want it to on late level high end hardware.  For "ordinary users" with existing hardware that's another problem.

Jerry

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
Man I don't know what happened. I can't get anything to work. My update manager keeps telling me I have updates that have to be partially installed, yet when I try it fails, and says make sure all my repo's are enabled - which they are.

I can install some of the compiz stuff in the package manager but some of the stuff tells me it needs compiz-gnome "but it's not going to be installed". 

I can't install compiz-gnome. 

I can bring up ccsm but none of the effects are working, but more importantly my dual monitor setup is jacked now. If I drag something from one monitor to the next it gets messed up as it moves from one monitor to the next.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-01
Ok. after much finagling I've got sorta somewhere. 

I've got compiz running, when I check the --version it says 7.9. 

Effects seem to be working normally, dual monitors also working normally. 

I had to install the icon and run it and have it run emerald. I can live with that.

However - I'm still getting errors galore with my upgrade and package managers. Partial upgrade this, can't install that...

Screenshots here..

Any ideas?

---

### Post by Cossar on 2008-11-01
> **Phases said:**
> Man I don't know what happened. I can't get anything to work. My update manager keeps telling me I have updates that have to be partially installed, yet when I try it fails, and says make sure all my repo's are enabled - which they are.

I can install some of the compiz stuff in the package manager but some of the stuff tells me it needs compiz-gnome "but it's not going to be installed". 

I can't install compiz-gnome. 

I can bring up ccsm but none of the effects are working, but more importantly my dual monitor setup is jacked now. If I drag something from one monitor to the next it gets messed up as it moves from one monitor to the next.

I'm having the exact same problems. could you explain how you got compiz running?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-01
As I said, it's probably the compiz wrapper causing the trouble right? You should have removed it prior to installing the new packages. But I think I've mentioned that above, as well as the Metapackages, which aren't needed. They are just there to make sure people who don't have compiz running and want to install it will get everything they need.

However, my harddrive made up to leave me with broken gdm just one hour ago.

I wasn't able to login to none of my accounts. Fortunately I made a list of my packages just yesterday, which I just pull... And I decided to build compiz from git myself afterwards. 

Anyway, glad you finally got it working.

And remove the compiz-wrapper. Mark for complete removal in synaptic. It will most likely tell you that you've got to remove some more compiz related packages. But thats not a problem. Just mark them for removal, not complete removal.

After uninstall finished, and that damn wrapper is finally out of our package db, simply mark the packages for reinstall. 

Just sort by origin again and mark all compiz. You should be even able to install compiz-gnome then :)


*eeeeeehhhhhh*

Wait a moment. I just see your screenshots. So it's gimp causing all that trouble? Well, you could have said that earlier ^^

Ooops, the terminal on the right... As I said, metapackages, just forget them. They won't add any options, usability or sth like that.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
OK, my reinstall just finished, so I'm facing exactly that problem now.

After installation progress finished, I hit upgrade, which finished telling me this:

[[img]http://img230.imageshack.us/img230/5414/screenshot01kb7.th.png[/img]](http://img230.imageshack.us/img230/5414/screenshot01kb7.png)

Now, if your upgrade manager tells you there's an upgrade for a package, that doesn't mean you have to install it.

[[img]http://img83.imageshack.us/img83/3940/screenshot02tt0.th.png[/img]](http://img83.imageshack.us/img83/3940/screenshot02tt0.png)

You'll get this error over and over again. So, obviously we have to remove compiz-wrapper if it's the package maintaining /usr/bin/compiz...:

Here we go, mark for complete removal:
[[img]http://img45.imageshack.us/img45/3313/screenshot04vl9.th.png[/img]](http://img45.imageshack.us/img45/3313/screenshot04vl9.png)

Mark additional changes:
[[img]http://img359.imageshack.us/img359/883/screenshot05vx2.th.png[/img]](http://img359.imageshack.us/img359/883/screenshot05vx2.png)


And hit apply
[[img]http://img112.imageshack.us/img112/6903/screenshot06cm1.th.png[/img]](http://img112.imageshack.us/img112/6903/screenshot06cm1.png)

Now hit RELOAD to have you package list and your db updated.
And, voila, now we've got a clean system:
[[img]http://img243.imageshack.us/img243/3918/screenshot07dw0.th.png[/img]](http://img243.imageshack.us/img243/3918/screenshot07dw0.png)

Mark all packages manually, and you will see four packages won't be installed. Now let's have a closer look:

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
4 Packages left:

[[img]http://img47.imageshack.us/img47/1798/screenshot10pg0.th.png[/img]](http://img47.imageshack.us/img47/1798/screenshot10pg0.png)[[img]http://img378.imageshack.us/img378/5927/screenshot11xu2.th.png[/img]](http://img378.imageshack.us/img378/5927/screenshot11xu2.png)
[[img]http://img137.imageshack.us/img137/2194/screenshot12xq0.th.png[/img]](http://img137.imageshack.us/img137/2194/screenshot12xq0.png)[[img]http://img99.imageshack.us/img99/8126/screenshot13hi6.th.png[/img]](http://img99.imageshack.us/img99/8126/screenshot13hi6.png)

And, as you see, 4 METAPACKAGES left. Descriptions can be pretty descriptive here n there ;)

So, basically, nothing left than 4 READMEs. 

Just hit apply, install all the BINARIES (except the metas) and you're done.

Ooops, and don't forget to add the packages from the universe repo:
[[img]http://img113.imageshack.us/img113/3207/screenshot14go1.th.png[/img]](http://img113.imageshack.us/img113/3207/screenshot14go1.png)[[img]http://img113.imageshack.us/img113/9234/screenshot15xb7.th.png[/img]](http://img113.imageshack.us/img113/9234/screenshot15xb7.png)



[More infos about metapackages](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MetaPackages)



I think I can't explain it more detailed at all.

Well then, now I'm gonna remove everything again and build it from git myself :D

But this should work for all of you.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-02
Hey, thanks for the help. I just got home..

Ok, here's what I stand. Lots of stuff for ya! ;)

1) Since I did this change the forums here have been real jacked up. Is uf.org having trouble or am I alone on this? The formatting is very bad. 

2) Your screenshots are showing different problems than I'm having, I never saw anything about a wrapper..

3) I think I'm okay with compiz, I looked at your screenshots and could install everything you had highlighted. However, compiz-gnome and compiz-fusion-gnome I can't install, I get that error. But that's okay.

4) It IS very buggy. I've jacked stuff up twice and had to go into failsafe mode to uncheck things I've checked that I didn't have issues with, with 7.6. But that's okay, things are working now. It just makes me nervous to play with plugins in compiz..  

4) The partial upgrade junk with my upgrade manager, never got that problem until I started this process. It appears to be gimp stuff, yeah, but it's somehow related to this. Is it cuz of the my repo entry? 

5) Alt + scroll wheel used to change the opacity of my windows. It doesn't anymore. Thoughts?

6) So will this unsupported repo trump regular ones? Like, say 7.9 is released officially, being much less buggy, will I be able to easily grab that or will I need to go through all this again?

7) Thanks for your help. Sorry for my noobness, I've only been exclusively ubuntu for a couple months now so, still learnin'.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
Alright, look, this may have looked somewhat hard to achieve.

The only issue tho, was compiz-wrapper. You may still find it if you search for it:

[[img]http://img354.imageshack.us/img354/3576/screenshot16zw4.th.png[/img]](http://img354.imageshack.us/img354/3576/screenshot16zw4.png)

Shame doesn't provide such a package, it's actually from the ubuntu guys I think... Thats why you've been able to upgrade most of the packages, but the wrapper one. 

As you saw, after completely removing it it worked just fine.

It's sad that the ubuntu guys obv don't care about name specifications or other repositories, but thats the deal. Therefore you get ubuntu, and may install nearly everything you like just like that.

If you ever tried another distro, you would know.

Now to don't have that wrapper thing penetrating our nice clean git compiz any longer, you may lock it's version after you removed it.

Simply mark it, and do this:
[[img]http://img87.imageshack.us/img87/4394/screenshot19il4.th.png[/img]](http://img87.imageshack.us/img87/4394/screenshot19il4.png)

I did the same for libcompizconfig0-dev cause shame provides a newer one.

That way you should be rid of any 0,78 or earlier version, and running a clean 0.79 install. 

Back to the name specifications, there are some rules about deb packages. Simply to make sure different versions won't mess up cause one developer named his package foo_bar_2_1_3_amd64.deb and another developer, working on the same package provides it as foo-bar-2.1.3_amd64.deb.

Obv these packages would mess things up. Thats why there's the Debian Policy. You can grab it if you're interested in, debian-policy is the pkg name. But actually, unless you develop your own apps you want to publish this is not necessary. Just fyi, why this was such a mess.
This happens if someone doesn't stick with this policy, cause, other than commercial software-company, open source is open source, so it lacks a hierarchic control inherently.

This is what the policies should take care of, and, well, the developers using them...

Btw, uf.org is glitching here too...

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-02
Word.

So do you think I missing a repo? Cuz I can't find compiz-wrapper at all. I mean, I really don't care as things are working okay now, its just that I can't, so I'm wondering if I'm short in my sources.list. 

Also, any thoughts on these two:

4) The partial upgrade junk with my upgrade manager, never got that problem until I started this process. It appears to be gimp stuff, yeah, but it's somehow related to this. Is it cuz of the my repo entry?

5) Alt + scroll wheel used to change the opacity of my windows. It doesn't anymore. Thoughts?

Appreciate you walking me through it. 

**Cossar** - You asked how I got compiz working - believe it or not I had to go into add/remove and add the compiz fusion icon, then if needed go into sessions and have it start on startup.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
Oh, must have missed this section.

Well, obviously you're missing sth, most likely you haven't enabled backports yet, have you?

Tbfh, I haven't seen hardy for quite some time now, been using debian and Intrepid since the 2nd or 3rd alpha version.

I usually try and stick to the latest development, cause, actually...

The basic difference between proprietary and open source software is, that OpenSrc most likely has been shared by the developer who started the project with the intention to profit from bugfixes by other devs who might grab things up.

Whereas proprietary software usually comes as a ready to go solution, which doesn't experience 2 much development anymore.

This is reasonable while nobody would pay a buck for software he has to deal with daily, just to keep it alive.

A Linux Kernel released two years ago would probably have less than 50% in common with the most recent one. 

On the other hand, WinXP for instance has been pretty much the same probably. Bugfixes and development go hand in hand, and so do closed source and patches.

You've got a stable basis with closed source software, though you most likely cannot expect to have sth hardware related implemented in one of the next versions/upgrades. 
You can be pretty sure of that fact if it comes down to open source tho.

What I actually try to say, I think it's always the best choice to stick with the latest, so Intrepid would be the choice for you. 

I only got the Intrepid and some custom sources, but if you post you sources.list I think I'll be able to remind what to do. Appending
restricted and non-free to some of the lines I think it was in hardy...
Just post its output.

---

### Post by Cossar on 2008-11-02
**phases**, thanks, I'll try that. 

**loomsen**, I think I figured out whats wrong. So synaptic is only allowing me to download 0.7.7. I've reloaded several times, and it always stays 0.7.7.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
Jep, you probably have one or more older packages left. Search for compiz in synaptic.you'll probably find sth. Remove everything, then as above.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-02
> **loomsen said:**
> Well, obviously you're missing sth, most likely you haven't enabled backports yet, have you?

...........


What I actually try to say, I think it's always the best choice to stick with the latest, so Intrepid would be the choice for you. 

............

I only got the Intrepid and some custom sources, but if you post you sources.list I think I'll be able to remind what to do. Appending
restricted and non-free to some of the lines I think it was in hardy...
Just post its output.

Hey man, good mornin to ya. 

Ok, I don't know what sth is, or what you mean by backports. Is there something other than installing those packages thru synaptic that I need to do? I have all of them that you had highlighted installed, I do believe.

As for moving to 8.10. I feel you on that and fully intend to when I can. I would like 8.10 as well as 64-bit. However, at the moment, with the method I'm using for my dual monitor/dual card setup (Xinerama, xserver-xgl) I can't. The OP here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=884161](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=884161)

tells me something about it isn't supported yet. 

So, what's this backports thing you speak of? 

Oh, yeah, here's my sources (oh hey, looks like i see something about backports in there, and they're enabled.):

```
# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 8.04.1 _Hardy Heron_ - Release i386 (20080702.1)]/ hardy main restricted
# See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
# newer versions of the distribution.

deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy main restricted
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy main restricted

## Major bug fix updates produced after the final release of the
## distribution.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates main restricted
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates main restricted

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in
## universe WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu security
## team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy universe
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy universe
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates universe
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates universe

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu 
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to 
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in 
## multiverse WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu
## security team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy multiverse
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy multiverse
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates multiverse
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates multiverse

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from the 'backports'
## repository.
## N.B. software from this repository may not have been tested as
## extensively as that contained in the main release, although it includes
## newer versions of some applications which may provide useful features.
## Also, please note that software in backports WILL NOT receive any review
## or updates from the Ubuntu security team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-backports main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-backports main restricted universe multiverse

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from Canonical's
## 'partner' repository. This software is not part of Ubuntu, but is
## offered by Canonical and the respective vendors as a service to Ubuntu
## users.
# deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu hardy partner
# deb-src http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu hardy partner

deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-security main restricted
deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-security main restricted
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-security universe
deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-security universe
deb http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-security multiverse
deb-src http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu hardy-security multiverse
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn/ubuntu hardy main
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn/ubuntu hardy main
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/gilir/ubuntu hardy main universe
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/compiz/ubuntu hardy main
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/davidf/ubuntu hardy main
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/davidf/ubuntu hardy main

# 		shame compiz
# 
deb http://download.tuxfamily.org/shames/debian-sid/desktopfx/unstable/ ./
```

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
Try these, I changed the red lines...
This has not much to do with compiz now tho, just to enable all available repos...

```

# deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 8.04.1 _Hardy Heron_ - Release i386 (20080702.1)]/ hardy main restricted
# See http://help.ubuntu.com/community/UpgradeNotes for how to upgrade to
# newer versions of the distribution.
[color=red]
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy main restricted non-free
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy main restricted non-free
#[/color]
## Major bug fix updates produced after the final release of the
## distribution.
#[color=red] I don't know if these repos exist, if you get some error like couldn't fetch delete non-free from this two lines.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates main restricted non-free
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates main restricted non-free
#[/color]
## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in
## universe WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu security
## team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy universe
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy universe
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates universe
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates universe

## N.B. software from this repository is ENTIRELY UNSUPPORTED by the Ubuntu 
## team, and may not be under a free licence. Please satisfy yourself as to 
## your rights to use the software. Also, please note that software in 
## multiverse WILL NOT receive any review or updates from the Ubuntu
## security team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy multiverse
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy multiverse
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates multiverse
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-updates multiverse

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from the 'backports'
## repository.
## N.B. software from this repository may not have been tested as
## extensively as that contained in the main release, although it includes
## newer versions of some applications which may provide useful features.
## Also, please note that software in backports WILL NOT receive any review
## or updates from the Ubuntu security team.
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-backports main restricted universe multiverse
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ hardy-backports main restricted universe multiverse

## Uncomment the following two lines to add software from Canonical's
## 'partner' repository. This software is not part of Ubuntu, but is
## offered by Canonical and the respective vendors as a service to Ubuntu
## users.
#[color=red]
deb http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu hardy partner
deb-src http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu hardy partner
#[/color]

deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hardy-security main restricted
deb-src [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hardy-security main restricted
deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hardy-security universe
deb-src [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hardy-security universe
deb [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hardy-security multiverse
deb-src [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) hardy-security multiverse
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn/ubuntu) hardy main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/reacocard-awn/ubuntu) hardy main
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/gilir/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/gilir/ubuntu) hardy main universe
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/compiz/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/compiz/ubuntu) hardy main
deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/davidf/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/davidf/ubuntu) hardy main
deb-src [http://ppa.launchpad.net/davidf/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/davidf/ubuntu) hardy main

# 		shame compiz
# 
deb [http://download.tuxfamily.org/shames/debian-sid/desktopfx/unstable/](http://download.tuxfamily.org/shames/debian-sid/desktopfx/unstable/) ./

```

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-02
Thanks for the help. The only one that didn't fail though was the last one, partners.. 

But word. Now last thing is to find out how to fix my dern Alt + wheel opacity adjustment, which I seem to have lost.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
You're welcome.

[[img]http://img243.imageshack.us/img243/2824/screenshot01zg5.th.png[/img]](http://img243.imageshack.us/img243/2824/screenshot01zg5.png)[[img]http://img88.imageshack.us/img88/3282/screenshot02uq1.th.png[/img]](http://img88.imageshack.us/img88/3282/screenshot02uq1.png)

I purged shames repo earlier and compiled compiz from git, so maybe it's located anywhere else, but I don't think so.

:)

---

### Post by Cossar on 2008-11-02
sweet, so now I see the 0.7.9 version of everything. theres just one problem: when I try to download compiz-core in synaptic, I get this error message:

> W: Failed to fetch [http://download.tuxfamily.org/shames/debian-sid/desktopfx/unstable/./compiz-core_0.7.9+git20080918.shame-0_amd64.deb](http://download.tuxfamily.org/shames/debian-sid/desktopfx/unstable/./compiz-core_0.7.9+git20080918.shame-0_amd64.deb)
  403 Forbidden

when I try to download and install manually, I get an error message in the terminal box.

---

### Post by Cossar on 2008-11-02
here's a picture of the error message

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
You still have compiz installed, as the picture tells you.

```

sudo apt-get --purge remove compiz* libcompizconfig0-dev
```

If that won't work, replace compiz* with compiz-wrapper

You should NOT NOT NOT in any way have anything compiz related installed NOW.

Open up synaptic, and do what I posted above... 

It's not that hard actually, if you have compiz running it's pretty clear that you won't be able to remove it. Even if you won't have decorations for 5 minutes or so, you gotta purge compiz.
Just follow what I've posted above step by step. Start at the bottom of the 2nd page.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-02
Dude "Freely Transform Windows" is TIGHT.

..if only they stayed when you rotated!

edit: ....aww, and if it didn't mess with my cube rotation speed :(

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-02
LOL so you got it workin good? :)

Freewins is a little glitchy tho.. That among other things was a main reason for me to remove everything and build it myself.

Btw, you can use the icon next to any option in ccsm to revert to default.

[[img]http://img243.imageshack.us/img243/5257/screenshot44go9.th.png[/img]](http://img243.imageshack.us/img243/5257/screenshot44go9.png)

[[img]http://img262.imageshack.us/img262/8595/screenshot45xd4.th.png[/img]](http://img262.imageshack.us/img262/8595/screenshot45xd4.png)

And make sure you check out helix as animation for closing and openin windows up. I'm luvin it :)

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-03
> **loomsen said:**
> LOL so you got it workin good? :)

Freewins is a little glitchy tho.. That among other things was a main reason for me to remove everything and build it myself.

Btw, you can use the icon next to any option in ccsm to revert to default.

[[img]http://img243.imageshack.us/img243/5257/screenshot44go9.th.png[/img]](http://img243.imageshack.us/img243/5257/screenshot44go9.png)

[[img]http://img262.imageshack.us/img262/8595/screenshot45xd4.th.png[/img]](http://img262.imageshack.us/img262/8595/screenshot45xd4.png)

And make sure you check out helix as animation for closing and openin windows up. I'm luvin it :)

I can't find anything on this helix you speak of anywhere. Animations?

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-03
Jep, I activated it for open and close animation. 
If you click on animations plus you should be able to configure helix.

---

### Post by Cossar on 2008-11-03
sweet, it works great now. Thanks alot for the help!

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-03
:)

You're welcome.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-03
Thanks, will check that when I get home. I looked in there but musta missed it.

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-03
I have "Animations" and "Animations Add-on".

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-04
Jup, just seen it's not in the repos. It's called animations plus...

Git version has it.

Oh, btw, it would be quite reasonable to change the thread title, don't you think? Sth like howto 0.79 or such...:)

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-04
Oh, I did not realize I could change thread titles!

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-04
Jup, changing the initial title will do...

---

### Post by Phases on 2008-11-04
I changed the initial title a couple hours ago, doesn't look like it reflects anywhere else though.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-04
Humm, I think the brackets shouldn't be used there. Just change it replacing the existing one... Maybe some more peops would like to know, but I wouldn't check it out with this title... :)

---

