---
title: "[SOLVED] persistent boot problem"
date: 2007-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by peeper on 2007-11-05
Hi,

I recently experienced a hung system (Kubuntu 7.10). After rebooting, I was dropped to a text-based terminal login (not the usual KDM login screen) with the following message:

```
Starting up...
Loading, please wait...
kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by-uuid/...)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/...
kinit: no resume image, doing normal boot...

Ubuntu 7.10 <hostname> tty1

<hostname> login:
```

After a little reading around, I suspected a corrupt resume file image in mounted swap space, so performed the following steps:
```
1. Found out where my swap file was mounted:
    swapon -s
2. Turned off swap and unmounted it
    swapoff /dev/sda5
3. Cleared out any corrupt resume image in the swap file as follows:
    mkswap -c /dev/sda5 # NOTE, I'm assuming mkswap will clear any corrupt resume image!
4. Turned swap back on, mounting the newly created swap file:
    swapon UUID=/dev/disk/by-uuid/... # used old UUID, as new links not yet updated
5. Check that swap is turned on and swap file mounted okay:
    swapon -s
6. Updated both /etc/fstab and /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume to use the new swap
file's UUID, as generated by mkswap, above (step 2).
7. Regenerated the initramfs image:
    update-initramfs -u
8. Rebooted.
```

The system is still not booting fully, and continues to drop me to a text-based terminal login with the old "kinit: no resume image, doing normal boot..." message!!!

I'm out of ideas and google search terms! Can anyone suggest what I might be missing/other courses of action?

Thanks,

Peeper.

---

### Post by mali2297 on 2007-11-05
After logging in via terminal, can you start KDM then?
```

sudo /etc/init.d/kdm start

```
..or at least start an X session?
```

startx

```

> 
kinit: name_to_dev_t(/dev/disk/by-uuid/...)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/...
kinit: no resume image, doing normal boot...

I don't interpret this as an error, just that it is checking if the computer has woken up from hibernate and should resume an old session. I get this kind of message on a normal boot.

---

### Post by peeper on 2007-11-05
Thanks mali2297,

> **mali2297 said:**
> After logging in via terminal, can you start KDM then?
```

sudo /etc/init.d/kdm start

```

I get a blank screen for around one minute before I'm returned to the command line (alt+F7 is blank, too).
> 
..or at least start an X session?
```

startx

```

That's an interesting! I tried startx and the X server failed to start. Amongst a series of worrying messages (which no longer show up in /var/log/Xorg.0.log, etc), I was informed that the NV device failed. I reconfigured X as follows:
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
and it appears that the nvidia modules that had been installed and running for some weeks no longer appeared in the list of available drivers (only the standard NV driver was available). After selecting the NV driver, startx succeeded!!!

It looks as though none of nvidia packages (nvidia-glx, nvidia-xconfig and nvidia-settings) which had been installed and working for several weeks were installed any longer!!!!! Any ideas what might have happened? - I certainly haven't removed those packages myself or through any dependency.

> I don't interpret this as an error, just that it is checking if the computer has woken up from hibernate and should resume an old session. I get this kind of message on a normal boot.
I assumed the problem was related to hibernate due to the nature and location of the log messages.

After the xserver-xorg reconfig I now have a working KDE session. Any ideas on what may have gone wrong? Your thoughts would be much appreciated!

Thanks,

Peeper.

---

### Post by mali2297 on 2007-11-06
> **peeper said:**
> 
After the xserver-xorg reconfig I now have a working KDE session. Any ideas on what may have gone wrong? Your thoughts would be much appreciated!


No, I don't have any ideas. Sorry. :-|

You should mark the thread as solved though. (Under the menu Thread Tools.)

---

