---
title: "X org  memory problems?"
date: 2005-12-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kripkenstein on 2005-12-17
I'm quite new to Linux in general, so apologies if this is a stupid question. But I can't find an answer anywhere.

I am running the latest Kubuntu for a week now (having finally replaced Windows). Updates completely installed. All seems well, except that I see my memory slowly draining away. The "X org" process starts out quite small, then over time grows and grows. Right now I see this:

 VmSize: 273,780 , VmRss 93,948

Ending the session and starting a new one doesn't help. Killing "X org" does, however (it starts out small again).

I look at free memory every few hours (KDE system guard), and I see less and less. And not to 'cached', but to 'application' (from my understanding, to "X org"). Eventually my physical memory will run out, it seems (and eventually my virtual memory as well?).

Help! I don't want to restart Kubuntu every day or so, like I had to with Windows :-)

---

### Post by mo_x on 2005-12-17
What videocard do you have and what driver do you use?

---

### Post by GoldBuggie on 2005-12-17
an output of **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** would be good. Maybe we can see if there is something strange there.

---

### Post by kripkenstein on 2005-12-17
I have a GForce FX5200. I installed the driver using Adept (nvidia-glx - hopefully this was the right thing to do?).

And here is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file (thanks in advance...):



# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/he/culmus-0.101"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us,il"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"grp:alt_shift_toggle"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"L1530S"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"L1530S"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by mo_x on 2005-12-17
The lines:
```
Load "GLcore" 
Load "dri"

```
should be removed. The nvidia driver does not use dri.

---

### Post by kripkenstein on 2005-12-18
Thanks, mo_x. I deleted those lines.

But it doesn't seem to help. After a few hours of running, the "X org" process takes up almost 300MB!

Should I reinstall the entire operating system? Might this help? (Any other ideas?)

---

### Post by mo_x on 2005-12-18
The problem may be related to some programs caching things like bitmaps in the x-server. Can you see a relation to the programs you are using and the amount of memory X is using?
I don't think reinstalling will help.

---

### Post by kripkenstein on 2005-12-18
Ok, you may be on to something here. I am running Firefox 1.5, and closing it just now freed 100MB from the "X org" process. Is that normal?

---

### Post by mlomker on 2005-12-18
[QUOTE=kripkenstein]Ok, you may be on to something here. I am running Firefox 1.5, and closing it just now freed 100MB from the "X org" process. Is that normal?[/QUOTE]

When viewed using **top** in a terminal, firefox uses 50 MB reserved and 20 MB shared memory on my machine.  It's a pig, but then again all gtk apps are going to use more memory in KDE because they load a copy of the gtk libraries when they run.

If your box has low memory then you'll probably want to use Konqueror as your browser or switch to Gnome to continue with Firefox.

---

### Post by mo_x on 2005-12-18
It seems normal. You said you are running out of memory after some time, maybe this is caused by firefox (or some plugin) or some other application leaking memory. Try to find out which one it is.

---

### Post by kripkenstein on 2005-12-18
Well, I installed Gnome, I am running it now. After several hours, I am at 470 MB for the Xorg process! So, Gnome is no solution.

I tried different versions of firefox meanwhile. No luck either. Weird.

So, I have a memory leak somewhere, and I need to run application by application, for a long time, to find which it is? I was hoping for a more elegant solution here...

---

### Post by mo_x on 2005-12-18
Are you using any plugins or extensions with firefox?

---

### Post by kripkenstein on 2005-12-19
The only plugins I use with Firefox are Flash and Java (Sun 1.5).

---

### Post by mo_x on 2005-12-19
Try removing the flash plugin and see if that helps.

---

### Post by kripkenstein on 2005-12-19
I can't see exactly how to uninstall plugins with firefox (no option in the preferences, and googling it didnt bring up anything immediately relevant). But I'll look into that more later, meanwhile I see something else interesting.

I've been running for 4+ hours now, and no memory problem: I'm back on KDE, running firefox etc. as normal; the only change I made is I'm not running any instant messengers - gaim and Skype are not open. So it seems that one of them might be the source of the memory leak...?

I'll run it for a few more hours and see if indeed this continues. Then I'll find out which of the two is the issue.

Problem is, I must have Skype, so I hope it's not that. We'll see.

Thanks for the advice so far, mo_x and others.

---

### Post by donpetsche on 2005-12-28
Hi, new forum member here.  I've switched to Ubuntu just a few weeks ago from other distros.  I'm watching my xorg process drain resources too.  The [heap] grows and grows.  This is happening on multiple machines each with different video drivers.  I've done some searching on the web, some posts out there that maybe there is a problem with custom cursors?  I've killed them on one of the machines, will let you know if it helps. . . Anyone else have any ideas?

---

### Post by viz_e on 2006-07-25
Any news on the side of xorg memory leak? It seems that it is still an actual problem.

---

### Post by nbx909 on 2007-01-05
yeah I've noticed a definite lag in my computer and i've seen xorg on top of top, until recently I thought nothing about it, then i saw this. Just wanting to say i got the same problem ](*,) Any fixes?

---

### Post by julipanno on 2007-01-13
I have the same problem, using an ATI Radeon Mobility 9800. Xorg uses constantly about 90 percent of my memory, and no amount of xorg.conf-tweaking has so far made any noticable difference. Using the fglrx driver reduced the amount to about 80 percent, but that is not enough to justify using it in spite of its downsides (about which there are many threads on this forum).

Attached is my present xorg.conf (the relevant parts) in case anyone would like to look.

---

### Post by mundano on 2007-01-18
I'm using a Nvidia GeFOrce 440MX, with the proprietary drivers (9631)... And I have the same problem..

Xorg just grows, and grows, and after some time it uses about 300 MB of memory..

---

### Post by volfro on 2007-01-19
I'm having a similar problem as well. At the moment, it's using over 150MB of memory. This wasn't a problem until the latest X.org update (that happened maybe a week ago).

---

### Post by volfro on 2007-01-23
It appears to be associated with AIGLX (which, as I understand it, is compiled with X.org as of Edgy). When I use a normal X session sans AIGLX with Gnome, the memory consumption seems pretty normal.

Still high for X though. Is this a bug that's been reported?

---

### Post by mundano on 2007-02-01
Can you please post your problems here?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/80731](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/80731)

Maybe with more info we can help the developers finding the bug..

---

