---
title: "How do I set Ubuntu's GRUB menu as the default for booting?"
date: 2009-07-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mjpatey on 2009-07-29
I have Linux Mint installed on another partition, and it was installed after Ubuntu.  I've since decided I'd like to boot into Ubuntu rather than Mint.  But the GRUB menu.lst that loads is the one generated by Mint.

So, although Ubuntu has undergone several kernel updates (and is now up to 2.6.28-14), when I boot into Ubuntu using Mint's menu.lst, the only version of Ubuntu to display uses the 2.6.28-11 kernel, which was where Ubuntu was back when I installed Mint.

How do I set my system to boot from the menu.lst created by Ubuntu (which has the latest available kernel) rather than the one on Mint's partition?

Thanks in advance for any insight!

-Mark

---

### Post by HappyFeet on 2009-07-29
You just have to go to /boot/grub/menu.lst (as root) and move the ubuntu entry (that you want) to the top of the boot list. Cut and paste skills come in handy here. ;)

What you see in /boot/grub/menu.lst is what you will see on the screen.

---

### Post by mjpatey on 2009-07-29
Well, the problem is that Ubuntu only makes changes to *its* menu.lst, not to the one created by Mint, on another partition, which is the one that's being booted to.

If I simply copy and paste the latest GRUB entry from Ubuntu's menu.lst (latest kernel) into the top of Mint's list, I'll maybe get the latest kernel version in Ubuntu for now, but every time we get a new kernel update, I'll have to do this manually again.

What I want is to be able to boot into the menu.lst that Ubuntu is generating, like a normal Ubuntu install... so as it receives kernel updates, they're added to the top of the list "automagically" (to borrow a term used in menu.lst), and I can boot to them without any fiddling.

Does that make more sense?

---

### Post by kk0sse54 on 2009-07-29
You need to chainload it so that Mint grub boots into Ubuntu grub which will have your updated menu.lst.

Open up your Linux Mint menu.lst ("sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst") and for your ubuntu entry change it to

```

title Ubuntu
root (hdx,x) <fill it in appropriately>
chainloader +1

```

Check out this thread for a complete Howto [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=724817&highlight=multiple+operating+systems](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=724817&highlight=multiple+operating+systems)

---

