---
title: "11.10 missing top and side panels"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zemadz on 2011-10-13
I upgraded to 11.10 from 11.04. After update everything to do with graphics eye-candy (Unity side panel, alt+tab window switching, window dragging etc) was lagging and slow. Also touchpad wasn't working (trackpad was though, I'm using a Thinkpad T60 with ATI x1400 graphics).

Then I decided to install CompizConfig Settings Manager. After running it, HDD was thrashed for a few minutes, system was unresponsive and when it restored my top and side unity panels disappeared.

Now I can have the top and side panels only when logging in with the "Ubuntu 2D" mode. When I log in with the "Ubuntu" mode, there are no panels.

Don't know what to do right now, couldn't find any solutions.

"unity --reset" gives me
warning: no Display variable set, setting it to 0
unity-panel-service: no process found

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-10-13
re-open ccsm & make sure the unity plugin is enabled - it can be unset from certain actions in ccsm

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-10-13
Try to run this on console:

```

DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p

```

It will tell you if your system supports Unity 3d. If it says you don't, mist likely you don't have proper video drivers installed. Try to follow the procedures I described here (post #5 and on):

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857059](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857059)

Regards,
Effenberg

---

### Post by madjr on 2011-10-13
well i did foresee that [upgrading would be problematic or break a functional desktop for many]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1852654")...

anyway, does unity 3d works correctly from a live-cd or usb?

and/or run the test as described above

---

### Post by zemadz on 2011-10-13
Unity 3D worked in 11.04 and until I ran CompizConfig Settings Manager it worked in 11.10 aswell, although it was lagging the way it never had before in previous Ubuntu versions.

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/lib/nux/unity_support_test -p
OpenGL vendor string:   X.Org R300 Project
OpenGL renderer string: Gallium 0.4 on ATI RV515
OpenGL version string:  2.1 Mesa 7.11

Not software rendered:    yes
Not blacklisted:          yes
GLX fbconfig:             yes
GLX texture from pixmap:  yes
GL npot or rect textures: yes
GL vertex program:        yes
GL fragment program:      yes
GL vertex buffer object:  yes
GL framebuffer object:    yes
GL version is 1.4+:       yes

Unity 3D supported:       yes

```

But I can't follow effenberg0x0's instructions, because ATI dropped releasing proprietary drivers for x1400 since Catalyst 10.2. Which I allready tried to install and resulted in:
```
Error: ./default_policy.sh does not support version
default:v2:i686:lib::none:3.0.0-12-generic:; make sure that the version is being
correctly set by --iscurrentdistro

```

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-10-13
Unity test already reported your card is supported, although is using the galium. 
I imagine you can use the 2D session normally. Inside this session, open a terminal and run:

```
unity --reset
sudo service lightdm restart
```


If you again get to a session with no launcher or panel, press Ctrl+alt+F1 to F6 to go to a VT. Login at the VT and run 

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/bin/ccsm
```

Switch back to the desktop with Ctrl+Alt+F7. YOu'll see ccsm there. Make sure the Ubuntu Unity Plugin is activated, as swell as OpenGL and Composite. If not activate it. 

Switch back to the VT and run:
```
sudo service lightdm restart
```

Make sure you're selecting Ubuntu this time, enter your password, login.

Report back

Regards,
Effenberg

---

### Post by zemadz on 2011-10-13
```
unity --reset
```
Is giving me problems:
```
WARNING: no DISPLAY variable set, setting it to :0
unity-panel-service: no process found
```
and just stays there. When I ctrl+c it and continue with:
```
sudo service lightdm restart
```
Then when I log in with "Ubuntu", I don't have the panels. The next step gives me:
```
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/bin/ccsm

Checking if settings need to be migrated ...no
Checking if internal files need to be migrated ...no
Backend     : ini
Integration : true
Profile     : default
Adding plugins
Skipping upgrade com.canonical.unity.unity.01.upgrade
Skipping upgrade com.canonical.unity.unity.02.upgrade
Initializing core options...done
/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/ccm/Window.py:92: Warning: g_object_set_qdata: assertion `G_IS_OBJECT (object)' failed
  self.LeftPane.pack_start(page.LeftWidget,   True, True)
/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/ccm/Window.py:95: Warning: g_object_set_qdata: assertion `G_IS_OBJECT (object)' failed
  self.show_all()
/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/ccm/Widgets.py:1567: Warning: g_object_set_qdata: assertion `G_IS_OBJECT (object)' failed
  self._table.attach (button, col, col+1, row, row+1, 0, xpadding=TableX, ypadding=TableY)
Loading icons...
/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/ccm/Widgets.py:1572: Warning: g_object_set_qdata: assertion `G_IS_OBJECT (object)' failed
  self.show_all ()
Initializing compiztoolbox options...done
Initializing mousepoll options...done
Initializing wall options...done
Initializing detection options...done
Initializing move options...done
Initializing gnomecompat options...done
Initializing staticswitcher options...done
Initializing regex options...done
Initializing decor options...done
Initializing scale options...done
Initializing opengl options...done
Initializing bailer options...done
Initializing ezoom options...done
Initializing fade options...done
Initializing imgpng options...done
Initializing place options...done
Initializing composite options...done
Initializing unityshell options...done
Initializing grid options...done
Initializing snap options...done
Initializing animation options...done
Initializing resize options...done
Initializing vpswitch options...done
Initializing session options...done
Initializing expo options...done
Initializing workarounds options...done
^CTraceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/bin/ccsm", line 127, in <module>
    gtk.main()
KeyboardInterrupt
```
Had to cancel that with ctrl+c aswell, because it hanged there. When I have checked that those things are enabled in CCSM and continue with restarting lightdm and login using "Ubuntu", then nothing has changed.

---

### Post by effenberg0x0 on 2011-10-13
You have to have a Graphic Session running in order to reset unity. So try to login again. Click the gear and make sure Ubuntu is selected, not Ubuntu 2d. If you get again to a session with no launcher / panel, you can switch to another VT (Ctrl+Alt+F1 to F6), login, and run it like this:

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 unity --reset
```
Then you'll run ccsm like this now:

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/bin/ccsm &
```
See, there's an ampersand in the end.

And you will press Ctrl+Alt+F7 to get back to the desktop. Then you'll see CCSM there and check if the Ubuntu Unity Plugin is activated, maybe deactivate/reactivate it, etc.

Once you're done, switch back to the VT (Ctrl+Alt+F1 to F6) you were and run

```
sudo service lightdm restart
```

Regards,
Effenberg

---

### Post by zemadz on 2011-10-13
Should these commands be able to end themselves or do I have to force close them?
```
DISPLAY=:0.0 unity --reset
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/bin/ccsm &
```
Because they seem to get stuck.

---

### Post by zemadz on 2011-10-13
> **effenberg0x0 said:**
> You have to have a Graphic Session running in order to reset unity. So try to login again. Click the gear and make sure Ubuntu is selected, not Ubuntu 2d. If you get again to a session with no launcher / panel, you can switch to another VT (Ctrl+Alt+F1 to F6), login, and run it like this:

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 unity --reset
```
Then you'll run ccsm like this now:

```
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/bin/ccsm &
```
See, there's an ampersand in the end.

And you will press Ctrl+Alt+F7 to get back to the desktop. Then you'll see CCSM there and check if the Ubuntu Unity Plugin is activated, maybe deactivate/reactivate it, etc.

Once you're done, switch back to the VT (Ctrl+Alt+F1 to F6) you were and run

```
sudo service lightdm restart
```

Regards,
Effenberg

I've tried this several times now, but it haven't had any luck getting it to work yet.

---

### Post by harlequin_ on 2011-10-13
same here

> **zemadz said:**
> I've tried this several times now, but it haven't had any luck getting it to work yet.

---

### Post by madjr on 2011-10-13
can you guys also send this to launchpad from 11.10 so they can check/fix the upgrade process and possibly also hand a solution:

in a terminal type and follow instructions:

```
ubuntu-bug unity
```

---

### Post by harlequin_ on 2011-10-14
done

> **madjr said:**
> can you guys also send this to launchpad from 11.10 so they can check/fix the upgrade process and possibly also hand a solution:

in a terminal type and follow instructions:

```
ubuntu-bug unity
```

---

### Post by zemadz on 2011-10-14
> **madjr said:**
> can you guys also send this to launchpad from 11.10 so they can check/fix the upgrade process and possibly also hand a solution:

in a terminal type and follow instructions:

```
ubuntu-bug unity
```

Sent my bug report aswell under previously existing bug #861643.

---

### Post by zemadz on 2011-10-14
I seem to have gotten Unity to work again.

After reboot I just entered
```
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/bin/ccsm &
```
and enabled Unity, nothing else. I launched the previous command from a terminal window inside broken Unity 3D this time, maybe it made a difference vs tty. Let's hope that it lasts.

But so far it seems that the serious lagging and slow performance that was after 11.10 upgrade and before Unity disappearing on me has gone. Also touchpad started working in Unity 3D mode.

EDIT:
Tried to enable "Show Desktop" in ccsm and Unity disappeared on me again. Tried to get it back during the same session but failed. Luckily Unity was working again after reboot.

---

### Post by madjr on 2011-10-14
> **zemadz said:**
> Sent my bug report aswell under previously existing bug #861643.

ok, but just so you know they rarely pay attention to old "fix released" bugs...

you can link your bug to an old one for reference, but is better if you can open a new one.

---

### Post by rockishi on 2011-10-15
Hello I am also having the same problem.  My top and side panels are gone, and I can only see my background.

I just installed 11.10.  It worked for a few minutes, and upon restarting the screen went blank.  

None of these options have worked, are there any more suggestions?
I have an Intel graphics card with the 'Vesa' version.
Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by jimned on 2011-10-17
> **zemadz said:**
> I seem to have gotten Unity to work again.

After reboot I just entered
```
DISPLAY=:0.0 /usr/bin/ccsm &
```and enabled Unity, nothing else. I launched the previous command from a terminal window inside broken Unity 3D this time, maybe it made a difference vs tty. Let's hope that it lasts.

But so far it seems that the serious lagging and slow performance that was after 11.10 upgrade and before Unity disappearing on me has gone. Also touchpad started working in Unity 3D mode.

EDIT:
Tried to enable "Show Desktop" in ccsm and Unity disappeared on me again. Tried to get it back during the same session but failed. Luckily Unity was working again after reboot.
Where did you type in the code?  since I can see side panel how do I get to terminal?  

-stumbled upon ctrl F1 and now panel shows!

---

### Post by madjr on 2011-10-17
> **jimned said:**
> Where did you type in the code?  since I can see side panel how do I get to terminal?  

-stumbled upon ctrl F1 and now panel shows!

on the menu/dash you can search for terminal

also pressing *ctrl alt t* brings it up

---

### Post by vanameister on 2011-10-19
I had the same problem with top and side panel. 

For me the helpful hint was in this site: 
[http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/04/missing-top-and-side-panels-in-unity.html](http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/04/missing-top-and-side-panels-in-unity.html) 

Especially the Reset Compiz part:

The following commands will reset all the settings for Compiz. You can run them in a terminal if available, or a tty:

```
gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compiz-1
gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compizconfig-1
rm ~/.compiz-1/session/*
rm ~/.config/compiz-1/compizconfig/config
```

I however have not been able to change/reset my top panel fonts and icons as well as  application fonts to ambiance theme... :(

---

### Post by Stray Wolf on 2011-10-31
This is happening to me at home.  The top panel still appears but has no "Me Menu", "System Menu" or any other indicators or icons on the top.  It does however, have the "File, Edit, View, etc.." drop down menus on the left, but no Unity launcher either.  I have to ctrl+alt+t to open anything.  The panels crashed the moment I selected "Preferences" in ccsm.  They didn't return after rebooting.  I'll go home and see if the "Unity Plugins" option got disabled somehow.  I'll also try to report this through the proper channels.  I'm really not sure if the "proper" channels would be to Unity or Compiz though...so if anyone knows for sure please inform me otherwise I'll report to both.

---

### Post by gacux on 2012-01-29
Same here. Are you guys still browsing without Unity panels? :)

---

### Post by gacux on 2012-01-29
Recently I was playing with 'CompizConfig Settings Manager'. Exactly - with desktop cubes. I think I messed up with plugin-conflicts. Heres what I did from [here]("http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/04/missing-top-and-side-panels-in-unity.html").
```
Ctrl + Alt + F1
DISPLAY=:0.0 ccsm
Ctrl + Alt + F7
```The CompizConfig Settings Manager should open. In 'Category' go to 'Desktop' and enable 'Ubuntu Unity Plugin'. Read and resolve any plug-in-conflicts to enable 'Ubuntu Unity Plugin' completely.

---

### Post by Grez on 2012-02-25
I was having similar problems which I've managed to sort out today.

My problem was that the Unity Plugin wouldn't enable in ccsm (Compiz Config Settings Manager). I could click it but it wouldn't remember the settings.

Here's what I did....


(1) Create a new folder on the desktop - right click and use the menu thrown up by the cursor.

(2) Double click the untitled folder to bring up Nautilus

(3) Navigate to the usr folder in the File System

(4) Navigate to share and then applications

(5) Double click on Unity 2d Launcher and Unity 2D Panel. This gives you a panel and a launcher to work with.

(6) Open Ubuntu Software Centre and search for Synaptic Package Manager. If it's already installed, move to the next step. If not, install it.

(7) Click on Dash Home and type Synaptic into the search bar. Click Synaptic Package Manager. Enter your password when prompted.

(.8.) In the search bar, type "libgconf2-4" and hit enter.

(9) Click on the package libgconf2-4 and mark for reinstallation.

(10) Click on "Apply changes"

(11) When the changes have been applied, open Dash Home, type "ccsm" into the search bar, click on CompizConfig Settings Manager, enable the Ubuntu Unity Plugin and click close.

(12) Log out and back in again. Your Unity 3D desktop should have returned. It did for me anyway!

All the best!



:D

---

