---
title: "Evolution Links not clickable"
date: 2009-09-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by David Oxland on 2009-09-14
I'm wondering if anyone else has this problem or a solution?

In Evolution: generate a "New" mail
In the text section copy paste a link.
The link is then "not clickable" by either the sender or receiver.
What will make it clickable is for the sender and therefore the receiver is to make any alteration to it;
-put a space before or after it
-remove an unnecessary  slash
-hit "enter" at the end of the link
-unknown others?
My mail receiving friends are complaining about this or don't like to copy paste a link into a browser.
The same happens if you are in Firefox and go File/Send Link,,,
I've checked Evolution Preferences for composing and sending but no joy so far.
Thanks
David

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-14
I can't reproduce it here.
I open a new mail, I paste a link, it appears as link in blue (and is clickable when I hold down control key)

I make some changes, its still clickable (with control). i send it to myself, and both the sent and received mail has clickable, working links?

Same happens when i format the mail as HTML

using Evolution 2.27.9

---

### Post by David Oxland on 2009-09-14
Mine is Evolution 2.26.1 the stable one via Synaptic.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-15
I guess I tried it on Karmic alpha. I'll test later on jaunty.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-09-15
> **P4man said:**
> I guess I tried it on Karmic alpha. I'll test later on jaunty.

Here we go again, people who download Alpha software - and are no doubt told to put** all problems **in the actual Development forum so these things can be addressed - start posting exactly where they shouldn't.

Every single time a new version is getting close we see the forums that support Release software (and **only** Release software) fill with inappropriate posts about the pre-release version.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-15
> **dcstar said:**
> Here we go again, people who download Alpha software - and are no doubt told to put** all problems **in the actual Development forum so these things can be addressed - start posting exactly where they shouldn't.

Every single time a new version is getting close we see the forums that support Release software (and **only** Release software) fill with inappropriate posts about the pre-release version.

relax mate, Im not the one reporting a problem, on the contrary. The OP is reporting a problem on jaunty, i just tested on karmic and couldn't reproduce the problem there.


Edit: tested under Jaunty as well, same result. Hyperlinks seem to work just fine, no matter what I try. Perhaps you can post an example?

---

### Post by David Oxland on 2009-09-15
Well on my own testing this time the first screenshot shows three links. 
The top one was generated by firefox/file/Send Link,,,
the second was copy/pasted from the browser and became  highlighted when  I hit enter to toggle down for the next one
the third was just another copy paste without interference.

The second screenshot shows the result of sending to  myself which was a surprise to me as the receivers have been complaining of them being unclickable.

Thanks for your interest;  if you like I can PM you a couple of links for a test

---

