---
title: "8.10 freezes during start-up"
date: 2009-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mefistofeles666 on 2009-04-01
Hi,

I upgraded from hardy to intrepid and it worked fine for the first two weeks, but I then installed virtualbox and a pc game (rise of nations) using wine. on the same day I played the game and after a couple of hours I decided to restart the system, but when I did it froze when the loading screen appears. 
What happens is, the bar the goes back and forth does fine, then the orange bar afterward starts filling up the black space but it stops 1/8 of the way, I let it be there for hours but it never moves from there. the same happens with all the other kernels. right now I'm using hardy installing cd using the "try ubuntu without installing it" option.

I was going to re-install hardy, but i rather see if there's a way to fix this. I searched the forums but couldn't find anything exactly like my problem, but I did find other posts talking about freezing during start up, but their was just slow and loaded after enough time.

thanks, any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-01
Try starting with out usplash. At the grub menu highlight the kernel you want to start and press **e** remove the following:

```
quiet splash
```

from the kernel line, then press Enter, next press **b** to boot. See if you can tell where the boot process stops.

Jim

---

### Post by mefistofeles666 on 2009-04-02
when I press e it gives me 4 options, the last one reads "quiet" , I suppose that's the one I should remove? how do I do that?

---

