---
title: "update-grub does not generate menuentry for btrfs linux os partition"
date: 2011-11-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by masuch on 2011-11-10
Hi,

Every time when I run update-grub in running ubuntu instance it did not generate menuentry for not running linux ubuntu installed on BTRFS partition to grub.cfg. (I have it in 40_custom file manually included).
I have attached RESULTS1.txt generated by bootinfoscript taken from:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

Because results1.txt is quite huge - (I have a lot of my config in develop stuff there) - going to describe shortly what is missing:
update-grub runs on /dev/sdc5 instance did not generated menuentry for btrfs on /dev/sde7 within /boot on /dev/sde2.

could somebody please help ?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-11-10
I could not open your results.txt file. Some sort of error.
 Just post it in code tags to make it easy to review. Code tags are the # in the edit panel at the top of a new post.

Is your boot partition sde2 also btrfs? I do not think grub boots from that in most versions, yet.

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-10
> **oldfred said:**
>  I do not think grub boots from that in most versions, yet.

Obviously the problem is there. 11.10 is not supporting BTFRS on /boot and a separate ext4 partition is needed.

---

### Post by masuch on 2011-11-10
> **BillyBoa said:**
> Obviously the problem is there. 11.10 is not supporting BTFRS on /boot and a separate ext4 partition is needed.

mapping of "btrfs" ubuntu instance is following:
btrfs /
btrfs /home
ext2  /boot

---

### Post by masuch on 2011-11-10
> **oldfred said:**
> I could not open your results.txt file. Some sort of error.
 Just post it in code tags to make it easy to review. Code tags are the # in the edit panel at the top of a new post.

Is your boot partition sde2 also btrfs? I do not think grub boots from that in most versions, yet.

no, 
/boot is ext2
/ btrfs
/home  btrfs
file has > 250 kbytes. 

!!! Rename .tar file to .txt !!!

---

### Post by masuch on 2011-11-10
> **oldfred said:**
> I could not open your results.txt file. Some sort of error.
 Just post it in code tags to make it easy to review. Code tags are the # in the edit panel at the top of a new post.

Is your boot partition sde2 also btrfs? I do not think grub boots from that in most versions, yet.

(Just of the record would be nice to have .xz file extension allowed. :-)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-11-10
It is just a text file you uploaded. Yes it is large. I also am not familar with config files, so I am not sure what is going on there.

You have this error in sdc, which needs fixing, but is not your problem:
> Extended partition linking to another extended partition.I also have a lot of installs, most Ubuntu. I cannot keep track, so I turn off os-prober once it has run once to give a base line and add my own 40_custom. I either copy an entry, but usually use a partition boot, so it boots the newest kernel on an update.

I first saw this from Ranch hand
Note that this does not define the kernel. It defines the partition. It boots the newest bootable kernel that it finds at that partition.

```
menuentry "Daily on sda13" {
    set root=(hd0,13)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda13 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}

```It may work for you but the hd0,13 should be the /boot sde2 and the sda13 should be your root or sde7. But if drives change boot order then you will have to convert to UUIDs. You will also need to use gpt, so grub knows that it is gpt. Not sure if anything else is needed or not.

Perhaps?
```
menuentry "Ubuntu on sde7  sde2 boot" {
    insmod part_gpt
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd4,2)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sde7 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}

```I like to have grub installed to the MBR of the same drive as the Ubuntu install. You seem to have the same grub installed to several drives and some do not show the partition so those installs do not look correct.

Your bios_grub partition only needs to be 1MB. You also created efi partition, but that would only be required if booting with UEFI not BIOS. And the efi partition has to be first. My new gpt drives I am also adding a efi partition as the first, but also using a bios_grub partition since I am BIOS now, with a hope of UEFI soon, and then maybe needing the efi partition.

Edit - Your boot partition does not have the boot files in a /boot folder with a link to the boot files at the top level. You will have to put in the full kernel & init verions.

---

### Post by masuch on 2011-11-11
> **oldfred said:**
> It is just a text file you uploaded. Yes it is large. I also am not familar with config files, so I am not sure what is going on there.

Yes, text file generated by script taken from [http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/) and renamed - not "tarred".
Configfiles work just fine. I am using it always because I put calling configs located on different bootable disks/partitions in 40_custom and I do not have to run update-grub after every changes which I make/made in my_grub.conf.


You have this error in sdc, which needs fixing, but is not your problem:
You mean is it some kind of known bug? Where can I find some more information about it?

---------------
I also have a lot of installs, most Ubuntu. I cannot keep track, so I turn off os-prober once it has run once to give a base line and add my own 40_custom. I either copy an entry, but usually use a partition boot, so it boots the newest kernel on an update.

I first saw this from Ranch hand
Note that this does not define the kernel. It defines the partition. It boots the newest bootable kernel that it finds at that partition.

```
menuentry "Daily on sda13" {
    set root=(hd0,13)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda13 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}

```It may work for you but the hd0,13 should be the /boot sde2 and the sda13 should be your root or sde7. But if drives change boot order then you will have to convert to UUIDs. You will also need to use gpt, so grub knows that it is gpt. Not sure if anything else is needed or not.

Perhaps?
```
menuentry "Ubuntu on sde7  sde2 boot" {
    insmod part_gpt
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd4,2)
        linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sde7 ro quiet splash
        initrd /initrd.img
}

```
-----------------
This is nice hint. Thanks for it. I have been thinking if this is possible but did not figure it out :-)



I like to have grub installed to the MBR of the same drive as the Ubuntu install. You seem to have the same grub installed to several drives and some do not show the partition so those installs do not look correct.

same grub installed on several drives - I do not understand. I have different grub versions and different modules installed - depend on disk/partition purpose. Could you please explain it ?
I have put my one generic grub_masuch.cfg on each bootable disk and partitions (generated by MULTISYSTEM and manually updated and testing for *.ISO linux/UNIX/BSD/windows and other OS distributions) - and each 40_custom on different linux instances contains always same configfiles calls - so , when I boot (in virtualbox as well) I can switch between configs located on different disk/partitions even my or genrated by update-grub.
How can I check if installation of grub is correct? How did you find out it? I can boot from each disk or partition and I did not noticed any problem/s yet, but please help me to check it out.



Your bios_grub partition only needs to be 1MB. 
I have bios_grub 1MB on sdc - this is the important one :-)
Maybe you checked another disk - USB external hard drive which has 1GB bios_grub partition - this is for my experiments - it is messed up with many things. So please ignore it - it is hardly experimental even if it works :-)

You also created efi partition, but that would only be required if booting with UEFI not BIOS. 
My BIOS supports UEFI so I can make many experiments :-)


And the efi partition has to be first. My new gpt drives I am also adding a efi partition as the first, but also using a bios_grub partition since I am BIOS now, with a hope of UEFI soon, and then maybe needing the efi partition.
Yes, that is my intention too :-) But I have read that it is little bit far away from some final stable release. Maybe I am wrong :-)

Edit - Your boot partition does not have the boot files in a /boot folder with a link to the boot files at the top level. You will have to put in the full kernel & init verions.
Which boot partition has missing boot files do you mean ? I could not find it except usb disk ? - it is experimental.

----
Everything is going around sdc/sde disks/partitions - others are not important :-)

please accept my apology if I misunderstood something I am playing with Linux couple of month, so, I do not have enough knowledge and experience.

cheers,
M.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-11-11
Backup partition table for sdc to another drive.
Backup partition table to text file & save to external device.
sudo sfdisk -d /dev/sdc > PTsdc.txt
If fdisk below changes things too much you have a way to go back.

The extended linking problem, check that it does not totally change partition order which may lead to other issues You may just need v & w:
sudo fdisk /dev/sdc
use option : x (expert mode)
use option : f (fix partition order)
use option : r (return)
use option : p (to print)
use option : v to verify partition
if it is ok
then you can do
option : w ( to write table to disk)
option : q to quit
else if it is not ok
then post the output of option p and v

The boot by partition rather than specific kernels relies on the links that Debian installs & put in root. But your only have the specific kernels not the links. I think that is because it is a /boot partition and you have both the kernels and grub in /grub not the lower level /boot/grub with grub files only and kernels in /boot and then the links at the top level.

I have seen the script not see the partition and sometimes users report it still boots, so the script (or grub) is not reporting partition correctly.


This is mine:
```
 => Grub2 (v1.97-1.98) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb and looks at sector 
    34 of the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and 
    looks in partition 2 for (,gpt2)/boot/grub.
 => Grub2 (v1.99) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdd and looks at sector 
    616448 of the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location 
    and looks for  on this drive.

```And this is yours, note blank:
```
 => Grub2 (v1.99) is installed in the MBR of /dev/sde and looks at sector 2048 
    of the same hard drive for core.img. core.img is at this location and 
    looks[COLOR=Red] for  on[/COLOR] this drive.
```But if it works then it is not an issue.
Edit.
Noticed it is only my older grub that shows info and the newer 1.99 also has the blank in mine.

---

