---
title: "Boot problems No suitable Mode (Dell X300)"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brandonsexton on 2010-05-03
Just did an upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 through the update manager and now I can't boot into the OS.

I receive these two errors:

error: no suitable mode found.
error: unknown command 'terminal'.

After these two errors. Screen flashes with the red/white loading circles and Ubuntu logo.

After that just goes into a black screen.  Any help is appreciated.


Thanks

---

### Post by snoolan on 2010-05-03
Hi,
I have encountered the same problem.
I reinstalled a Beta version (31/3/10) of 10.04 and got the 2 error messages BUT the Ubuntu Logo came up, then the system came up!
I did an update to the 10.04 LTS release and the PC ran perfectly all day, but when I rebooted it - same problem (Ubuntu logo, then nothing).
I reinstalled the Beta today, just so I could get some work done and it seems to be running ok.
What is the difference between the Beta and the Released version?

---

### Post by genoceres on 2010-05-04
Hi, 

I have also experienced this problem. It looks like Xorg is having difficulty auto-detecting the graphics card.

I have come up with a workaround as follows.

Put ubuntu 9.10 onto a usb stick, boot up from this in "try it out" mode. (see [www.pendrivelinux.com](www.pendrivelinux.com) for how)

Log out (but don't reboot).

As root, kill off Xorg from a spare session. 

run this:

Xorg -configure

mount your hard drive somewhere sensible

e.g.

cd /root/
mkdir tmpmount 
mount /dev/sda1 tmpmount

then copy the new xorg.conf into place

cp /root/xorg.conf.new /root/tmpmount/etc/X11/xorg.conf

Reboot, and hopefully it should all boot up happily :)

---

### Post by snoolan on 2010-05-05
The problem is that the Video mode is set in '/boot/grub/grub.cfg' to an incorrect value (hence the error message!)

	around line 36:    set gfxmode=640x480

This file is not one that you should hand edit, but is generated by running  '/usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig'

To change this apply the following
0.	You need access to the configuration files, so you will need to boot a live CD, such as earlier versions of Ubuntu or Knoppix
1.	become root
2.	cp /boot/grub/grub.cfg /boot/grub/grub.cfg.original	// take a backup of the file
3.	chmod +w /boot/grub/grub.cfg		// make the file writable
3.	cp /etc/grub.d/00_header /etc/grub.d/Original.00_header	// take a backup of the file
4.	open  /etc/grub.d/00_header  for editing (use vi, nedit or some other editor), then
	around line 39, there is the following line
		if [ "x${GRUB_GFXMODE}" = "x" ] ; then GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480 ; fi
	change it to
		if [ "x${GRUB_GFXMODE}" = "x" ] ; then GRUB_GFXMODE=1024x768x32 ; fi
	- or some other resolution you KNOW your screen will handle.
5.	save the file
6.	run the following instruction (without quotes)
		'/usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig > /boot/grub/grub.cfg'
7.	chmod -w /boot/grub/grub.cfg		// make the file read only
8.	Reboot & you should get the grub boot selection screen

Note that this is supplied on an all care / no responsibilty basis, but it worked for me!

---

### Post by Cr0wley on 2010-05-05
Thanks for the advice/help all, but I'm afriad I'm having problems following your recommendations.

I've booted from a 9.10 CD and attempted to follow both guides, each time getting stuck:

> As root, kill off Xorg from a spare session. 
I've logged off, Alt-F1'd to the command line. When I run 'sudo kill Xorg', kill complains that it can't find the process. I can't do a ps -ef | grep Xorg because I can't find where the | key has been mapped to (it's not where it should be on a UK keyboard.) Attempting to 'Xorg -configure' compains that the process is still running.

> 1. become root
I love this suggestion, and think I could quite happily follow the rest of the steps, but am stumped at #1. Can you please explain how I become root beyond using sudo, and change the root folder to that of the hard drive, instead of the CD I've booted from?

Thanks in advance for any help!!

---

### Post by Cr0wley on 2010-05-05
> 1. become root 

From [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=422523](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=422523)

sudo mkdir /mnt/repair
sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt/repair 
sudo chroot /mnt/repair su

However, I'm not quite there...
```
root@ubuntu:/# /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig > /boot/grub/grub.cfg
/usr/sbin/grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for / (is /dev mounted?).
```

---

### Post by rajn on 2010-05-09
Hi,
I have the same problem though in my case eventually I am able to launch the desktop. But every boot has a long wait with two error messages.
'error: no suitable mode found'
'error:unknown command 'terminal''

I upgraded from Karmic to Lucid Lynx 10.04. on a working Vaio PCG FX220. Karmic worked well though with some changes to Xorg due to screen resolution problems which ultimately got resolved. 

However, after upgrading to 10.04, I am having problems on booting up which get resolved but after about a long wait of a minute or more..I get these message 
'error: no suitable mode found, unknown command 'terminal'.'

This is followed by a long 1-2 minute wait. Then a garbled screen and suddenly I am launched into the desktop. 

And I tried all possible workarounds as suggested in this post i.e., changed the mode to 1024x768 in /etc/default/grub

or as suggested in 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/519358](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/519358).

by editing header 00 in grub.d 
specifically..
 if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that  don't
    # understand terminal_output
    if terminal gfxterm ; then
      true
    fi
  fi
But to no avail....

Wonder if any suggestions in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469475](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469475) would work for me?

I would really like to know what is causing this. How did everything work in Karmic? Can I copy the previous grub .lst file into grub.cfg and resolve the issue?
Thanks

---

### Post by belwood on 2010-05-13
Same black screen on boot-up for me -- however, if on the grub boot-screen I choose the 2.6.31-20-generic instead of the 2.6.32-22-generic, it appears to boot fine (except for a couple of mount errors which I don't understand.

Also, if I choose recovery mode and select failsafeX startup, it works fine too.

Strangely my /boot/grub directory DID NOT have a grub.cfg and by generating a grub.cfg, changing the res and putting in /boot/grub, the black-screen of death happens AFTER login.

I hope this helps someone find the real problem.

---

### Post by jamsh on 2010-05-15
> **brandonsexton said:**
> Just did an upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04 through the update manager and now I can't boot into the OS.

I receive these two errors:

error: no suitable mode found.
error: unknown command 'terminal'.

After these two errors. Screen flashes with the red/white loading circles and Ubuntu logo.

After that just goes into a black screen.  Any help is appreciated.


Thanks

I have exactly this problem after updating last night.
How do I get my x300 running again?

---

### Post by jamsh on 2010-05-16
Forget it. I've gone back to 9.10.
Maybe, someday, this will be fixed.

---

### Post by JDP91 on 2010-05-22
Hi; I've got the same issue on a Dell inspiron 500M. the update never ended; and then I gott both messages on following boots. I can only boot in reduce video mode (maintaining shift while booting...)
In addition the non ending update corrupted my mysql configuration....
I hope this helps

---

### Post by NaOH on 2010-05-25
In addition to the steps described here, this was the final piece that got me booting properly

[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2010/05/06/ubuntu-10-04-lucid-blank-screen-at-startup-workaround/)

---

### Post by belwood on 2010-05-28
After looking up that my X300 has the Intel 855GM card I finally found a solution at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) -- Option A (Re-enabling KMS).  

However, since my machine was upgraded from 8 to 9 to 10 over the years, I still had grub v0.97 so I first upgraded it to the latest using:
  sudo aptitude install grub-pc

---

### Post by mortenf on 2010-05-30
Worked fine for a Dell Latitude D500 (GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=&#8221;quiet splash i915.modeset=1&#8243;).

---

### Post by belwood on 2010-06-01
It's actually not (really) broken, the KMS was disabled so re-enabling it should resolve the issue.

After looking up that my X300 has the Intel 855GM card I finally found the  solution at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) --  Option A (Re-enabling KMS).

However, since my machine was upgraded from 8 to 9 to 10 over the years,  I still had grub v0.97 so I first upgraded it to the latest using:
  sudo aptitude install grub-pc

---

### Post by koolhand on 2010-06-02
Something like this worked for me.

[LIST]
[*]boot from the LiveCD
[*]choose your language
[*]press F6
[*]add i915.modeset=1 to the end of the line and hit Enter
[/LIST]

Once it's going
[LIST]
[*]Applications > Accessories > Terminal
[/LIST]

```
sudo mount /dev/sda /mnt
```

Then mostly taken from [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2), change root to /mnt and update grub

```
sudo mount --bind /dev  /mnt/dev
sudo mount --bind /proc /mnt/proc
sudo mount --bind /sys  /mnt/sys
sudo chroot /mnt
```

edit /etc/default/grub

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash i915.modeset=1"
```

and then update grub

```
sudo update-grub
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```

Restart.

---

### Post by Lager_Monster on 2010-06-11
> **koolhand said:**
> 
[LIST]
[*]Applications > Accessories > Terminal
[/LIST]

```
sudo mount /dev/sda /mnt
```

Restart.

Thanks koolhand, this worked well for me and Xubuntu 10.04 on my X300.
theres a little typo, I used:
sudo mount /dev/sda**1** /mnt
instead.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by stepstools on 2010-07-08
> **mortenf said:**
> Worked fine for a Dell Latitude D500 (GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=”quiet splash i915.modeset=1&#8243;).

I also own a D500, yep, thats what worked for me.

---

### Post by iGeorgie on 2010-10-18
> **belwood said:**
> It's actually not (really) broken, the KMS was disabled so re-enabling it should resolve the issue.

After looking up that my X300 has the Intel 855GM card I finally found the  solution at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) --  Option A (Re-enabling KMS).

However, since my machine was upgraded from 8 to 9 to 10 over the years,  I still had grub v0.97 so I first upgraded it to the latest using:
  sudo aptitude install grub-pc

Thank you for this post. Since 9.10 I was not able to upgrade my X300. I didn´t find the solution. With the new 10.10 I thought I get more luck. Not.
Then I find this post. I get it working in 2 minutes! Great.

---

### Post by nicoelba on 2010-10-24
Hi! I've Xubuntu 10.04 installed, and after the last upgrade (yesterday evening) I've the same problem as you.
I try to fix the problem with the alternate Cd but I can't boot in my system.. Now I'm trying to download the desktop CD, hoping to be more lucky..

---

### Post by nicoelba on 2010-10-24
I've tried with LiveCd of xubuntu 10.04 but I've not fix the problem.. instead I've th following errors:
> error: no suitable mode found
error: unknown command 'terminal'
error: couldn't read file [0.973676] Kernel panic - not syncing: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on unknown-block (0,0)What I've to do?
Thanks for the help!

---

