---
title: ".tar vs .gz"
date: 2009-09-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JMTHHH on 2009-09-03
I have been trying for a while to install a driver on my system and realized that the file I was using was different from the file being recommended.  I had rt73-cvs-daily.tar and the forum listed rt73-cvs-daily.tar.gz  What is the difference between these two files and does anyone know where I can get the latter?
-Thanks

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-09-03
.tar isn't a compressed version ( so bigger) and .tar.gz is compressed (so smaller)

---

### Post by Lampi on 2009-09-03
tar gz is compressed using the gzip algorithm - you unpack it like this:

```
tar -xvf <filename>.tgz
```

or in your case:

```
tar -xvf rt73-cvs-daily.tar.gz
```

note: tgz = tar.gz

---

### Post by t0p on 2009-09-03
> **JMTHHH said:**
> I have been trying for a while to install a driver on my system and realized that the file I was using was different from the file being recommended.  I had rt73-cvs-daily.tar and the forum listed rt73-cvs-daily.tar.gz  What is the difference between these two files and does anyone know where I can get the latter?
-Thanks

You should be able to use the .tar archive just fine. Right-click on it and choose to Extract.  The contents of your tar archive should be the same as the gzipped archive you think you need.

---

### Post by JMTHHH on 2009-09-03
So if I have only the .tar file I don't need the gz at the end.  The .tar is just the decompressed version of the .tar.gz?

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-09-03
Yup.

---

### Post by JMTHHH on 2009-09-03
Thanks very much for your help everyone.  One last thing, if I wanted to compress a .tar to a .tar.gz how would I do that?

---

### Post by jonobr on 2009-09-03
Hello

In a terminal if you have a tar called myfile.tar

then gzip myfile.tar

This will will compress that file and add the gz extension for you.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-09-03
bzip2 has been around a long time now and is available on just about any platform. It's installed by default in Ubuntu.

If you really want to compress a .tar file, bzip2 files (.bz2) will be a lot smaller.

Most downloads nowadays are offered in both .tar.gz and .tar.bz2

---

### Post by snakepit # on 2009-09-03
> **jonobr said:**
> Hello

In a terminal if you have a tar called myfile.tar

then gzip myfile.tar

This will will compress that file and add the gz extension for you.

Don't need two steps.

tar -cvzf files.tgz *

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-09-03
> **snakepit # said:**
> Don't need two steps.

tar -cvzf files.tgz *

Yes and this:
```
tar cvjf files.tar.bz2 *
```will do the same for bzip2

---

### Post by ad_267 on 2009-09-03
You can also right click on a file, directory or group of files in Nautilus and select "Create Archive". You will get a drop down list allowing you to select from .zip, .tar.gz, .tar.bz2 and others.

---

