---
title: "Crontab either doesn't run or runs once and stops"
date: 2014-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GBomgardner on 2014-05-19
Ok, let me begin by staying I'm relatively new to Ubuntu, so please forgive any Newbie errors.  I have a script.  The script was taken from a guide posted on the Zimbra forum, and was only very minorly altered.  The scripts runs ok if I run it directly. (sort of ok, but that's a problem for another day.)  I scheduled it with crontab and it doesn't seem to run at all.  I've checked the crontab service and it is running. I've even restarted the service and machine to make sure.  I've checked various posts looking for various answers and followed all the various suggestions I could find. (such as reading the man cron and cron (5) files and making sure the last line of the crontab file is a new line.)  I've created a brief echo line in the crontab file for testing.  I get only one output to the test file.  since I scheduled it to run every minute I would expect to see multiple outputs repeated over and over again, but their remains only one.  The crontab for the script still does not appear to run at all.  To add to my confusion, when I run crontab -e to edit the crontab file there is an warning at the top of the files that says "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall" I'm unsure at this point where the master file is? I've checked /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root and it's the same file. (I know I shouldn't be using root, but I wanted to try and eliminate permissions issues on the script file while I was trying to get this working.)  Any suggestions?

```

# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/tmp/crontab.qwgqJG/crontab installed on Mon May 19 15:08:27 2014)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
# /etc/crontab: system-wide crontab
# Unlike any other crontab you don't have to run the `crontab'
# command to install the new version when you edit this file
# and files in /etc/cron.d. These files also have username fields,
# that none of the other crontabs do.


SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin


# m h dom mon dow user  command
17 *    * * *   root    cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly
25 6    * * *   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily )
47 6    * * 7   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.weekly )
52 6    1 * *   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.monthly )
*/10 *  * * *   /var/scripts/common/import.email
*  *    * * *   echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test

```

---

### Post by m1qkus on 2014-05-20
Have you tried to insert a username in the crontab line? 
Do you get any errors in the syslog? 

Best,
m1qkus

---

### Post by GBomgardner on 2014-05-20
> **m1qkus said:**
> Have you tried to insert a username in the crontab line? 
Do you get any errors in the syslog? 

Best,
m1qkus

I originally began the process using my system ID, tried it in the line and out of the line.  I made sure there was not an allow or a deny file present.  When that wasn't working I switched to root and tried it with and without root in the crontab line, no change. The following is from the syslog file.  It shows the crontab jobs running, but they are not executing. The log file cron.test has only one entry in it. I would expect to see multiple entries. The script import-Email also has a similar log I use for testing, and there are no updates in that log file as well.  I see no errors in the log file.

May 20 08:01:01 mail CRON[12924]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:02:01 mail CRON[13188]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:02:01 mail CRON[13189]: (zimbra) CMD (/opt/zimbra/libexec/zmstatuslog > /dev/null 2>&1)
May 20 08:03:01 mail CRON[13906]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:04:01 mail CRON[14171]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:04:01 mail CRON[14172]: (zimbra) CMD (/opt/zimbra/libexec/zmstatuslog > /dev/null 2>&1)
May 20 08:05:01 mail CRON[14889]: (root) CMD (command -v debian-sa1 > /dev/null && debian-sa1 1 1)
May 20 08:05:01 mail CRON[14890]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:06:01 mail CRON[15155]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:06:01 mail CRON[15156]: (zimbra) CMD (/opt/zimbra/libexec/zmstatuslog > /dev/null 2>&1)
May 20 08:07:01 mail CRON[15873]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:08:01 mail CRON[16159]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:08:01 mail CRON[16160]: (zimbra) CMD ([ -f /opt/zimbra/data/dspam/data/z/i/zimbra/zimbra.log ] && /opt/zimbra/dspam/bin/dspam_logrotate -a 60 -l /opt/zimbra/data/dspam/data/z/i/zimbra/zimbra.log)
May 20 08:08:01 mail CRON[16161]: (zimbra) CMD (/opt/zimbra/libexec/zmstatuslog > /dev/null 2>&1)
May 20 08:09:01 mail CRON[16909]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:10:01 mail CRON[17207]: (root) CMD (echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test)
May 20 08:10:01 mail CRON[17208]: (root) CMD (/var/scripts/common/import-email)
May 20 08:10:01 mail CRON[17209]: (zimbra) CMD (/opt/zimbra/libexec/zmqueuelog)
May 20 08:10:01 mail CRON[17210]: (zimbra) CMD (/opt/zimbra/libexec/zmlogprocess > /tmp/logprocess.out 2>&1)
May 20 08:10:01 mail CRON[17213]: (zimbra) CMD (/opt/zimbra/libexec/zmstatuslog > /dev/null 2>&1)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-05-20
First, by putting the ampersand at the end of the command
```
echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test
```
you put the echo command into the background before anything can be written to output file.  My guess is that if you run the command "ps ax" you'll see lots of these processes still running in the background.

Next, the format of /etc/crontab differs from that of users' crontabs, including root's, in /var/spool/cron/crontabs.  The entries in /etc/crontab require a username after the time entries:
```

*/10 *  * * *  **root** /var/scripts/common/import.email
*  *    * * *   **root** echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test
```

Finally, without seeing the contents of import.email it's hard to know where the problem lies.  Does the script invoke a shell in the first line of the file with something like "#!/bin/sh" or "#!/bin/bash"?  What if you add an sh like this:
```
*/10 *  * * *  root sh /var/scripts/common/import.email
```

---

### Post by GBomgardner on 2014-05-20
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> First, by putting the ampersand at the end of the command
```
echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test
```
you put the echo command into the background before anything can be written to output file.  My guess is that if you run the command "ps ax" you'll see lots of these processes still running in the background.


Next, the format of /etc/crontab differs from that of users' crontabs, including root's, in /var/spool/cron/crontabs.  The entries in /etc/crontab require a username after the time entries:
```

*/10 *  * * *  **root** /var/scripts/common/import.email
*  *    * * *   **root** echo "I'm running now" &> /var/temp/cron.test
```

Finally, without seeing the contents of import.email it's hard to know where the problem lies.  Does the script invoke a shell in the first line of the file with something like "#!/bin/sh" or "#!/bin/bash"?  What if you add an sh like this:
```
*/10 *  * * *  root sh /var/scripts/common/import.email
```

I removed the ampersand from the test line, The behavior of the output file did not change. i get a single line of output, then nothing else.  I added root to the crontab line, then i got nothing. Removed it again and i was down to one entry.
I added root to the script line, and still get nothing.  Syslog still shows no errors. The line in syslog includes the root now, but no output and no error. I know that the crontab files for /etc/crontab and /var/spool/cron/crontabs should be different , but they're not??  They all look identical which is one of the reasons I'm not sure if I'm in the right place here?

current crontab file:
```

# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/tmp/crontab.qwgqJG/crontab installed on Mon May 19 15:08:27 2014)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
# /etc/crontab: system-wide crontab
# Unlike any other crontab you don't have to run the `crontab'
# command to install the new version when you edit this file
# and files in /etc/cron.d. These files also have username fields,
# that none of the other crontabs do.


SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin


# m h dom mon dow user  command
17 *    * * *   root    cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly
25 6    * * *   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily )
47 6    * * 7   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.weekly )
52 6    1 * *   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.monthly )
*/5 *  * * *    root    /var/scripts/common/import-email
*  *    * * *   root    echo "I'm running now" > /var/temp/cron.test

```

The first line of the script that is running is:
```

#!/bin/bash

```

The full code can be found here: [http://www.zimbra.com/forums/installation/53227-my-notes-installing-zimbra-7-1-3-ubuntu-server-10-04-3-lts.html](http://www.zimbra.com/forums/installation/53227-my-notes-installing-zimbra-7-1-3-ubuntu-server-10-04-3-lts.html)
toward the bottom of the page, I'm using it to create email accounts from a csv file created from an SQL server.

After running "ps ax" I get several lines repeated that I don't recognize, don't know if they're the crontab line trying to do the output or not?
   10 ?        S      0:00 [rcuob/0] (this repeats from /0 to /63)
   75 ?        S      0:03 [rcuos/0] (this repeats from /0 to /63)

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2014-05-20
You only get one line of output in /var/temp/cron.test because you used ">" rather than ">>".  The latter appends the text to the file; the first rewrites the file each time.

Did you edit /etc/crontab with a text editor, or did you use "crontabs -e" as root?  If the latter, the results appear in /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root. 

The file you list above with the anacron entries should be /etc/crontab.  If that's also in /var/spool/cron/crontabs, I'd delete that version to avoid conflicts.

Let's just make sure everything is working as advertised.  Can you run the script as root from the command prompt:
```
sudo /var/scripts/common/import-email
```

Does the script log the fact that it runs, even if it does nothing?  I usually have all scripts write to a log with commands like this:
```

#!/bin/bash
[stuff]
echo "$(date +%c) - Script starting" >> /var/log/myscript.log
[stuff]
echo "$(date +%c) - Script ending" >> /var/log/myscript.log

```

---

### Post by GBomgardner on 2014-05-20
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> You only get one line of output in /var/temp/cron.test because you used ">" rather than ">>".  The latter appends the text to the file; the first rewrites the file each time.

Did you edit /etc/crontab with a text editor, or did you use "crontabs -e" as root?  If the latter, the results appear in /var/spool/cron/crontabs/root. 

The file you list above with the anacron entries should be /etc/crontab.  If that's also in /var/spool/cron/crontabs, I'd delete that version to avoid conflicts.

Let's just make sure everything is working as advertised.  Can you run the script as root from the command prompt:
```
sudo /var/scripts/common/import-email
```

Does the script log the fact that it runs, even if it does nothing?  I usually have all scripts write to a log with commands like this:
```

#!/bin/bash
[stuff]
echo "$(date +%c) - Script starting" >> /var/log/myscript.log
[stuff]
echo "$(date +%c) - Script ending" >> /var/log/myscript.log

```

I've added the double >> to the cron.test line. That now operates as expected. Thank-you. 
I attemped to run sudo /var/scripts/common/import-email. Would not run returned an error: 

-bash: /var/scripts/common/import-email: Permission denied

this code does run successfully using: "bash /var/scripts/common/import-email" So i added to the "bash" to the crontab line.  It now runs sucessfully, sorta (different issue with zimbra). it's worth noting for anyone following along that adding "root" to the crontab line, actually caused the crontab to not fire off correctly, resulting in no error, but no output either on both crontab lines.  My crontab file now looks like:



```

# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/tmp/crontab.qwgqJG/crontab installed on Mon May 19 15:08:27 2014)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
# /etc/crontab: system-wide crontab
# Unlike any other crontab you don't have to run the `crontab'
# command to install the new version when you edit this file
# and files in /etc/cron.d. These files also have username fields,
# that none of the other crontabs do.


SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin


# m h dom mon dow user  command
17 *    * * *   root    cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly
25 6    * * *   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily )
47 6    * * 7   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.weekly )
52 6    1 * *   root    test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.monthly )
*/20 *  * * *   bash /var/scripts/common/import-email
*  *    * * *   echo "I'm running now" >> /var/temp/cron.test



```

Thanks for the help [COLOR=#000000]SeijiSensei[/COLOR]

---

