---
title: "14.04 Firefox not operational after update"
date: 2015-08-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by peterburnett on 2015-08-18
I did Firefox update about a week ago. Since then, it has not been operational in that there is no address bar. Please see attached screenshot. I uninstalled FF with purge option and reinstalled with no improvement. Today I did the kernel update and nothing has changed.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2015-08-18
it may be a display issue, but it looks like it is still trying to load the window
you can try a clean profile like this
mv ~/.mozilla ~/.mozilla.bak
to go back
rm -r ~/.mozilla
mv ~/.mozilla.bak ~/.mozilla

---

### Post by peterburnett on 2015-08-18
Success, that worked. Thank you.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-08-18
Maybe this helps [https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/1077576](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/1077576)

---

### Post by benawhile on 2015-08-18
I am sure I have the same problem after an update, (was just going to post but fortunately saw this one near the top of the list), but please could you tell me what I should type where the squiggle is, and is there supposed to be a space before the squiggle?

---

### Post by peterburnett on 2015-08-18
The squiggle is shorthand for Home. Copy and paste the entire command(s), and no more, into the Terminal as is, right click in Terminal to paste, then Enter. If you copy an additional space after the command, Terminal seems to automatically execute a command without hitting Enter, which is not good - for me anyway.

---

### Post by benawhile on 2015-08-19
Firstly is it OK for me to take over this thread, as I'm sure I have an identical issue?

Secondly, after the first command line, mv ~/.mozilla ~/.mozilla.bak I had a browser, thank you, but I have lost it again.

In the first place, I notice that a previous fault had re-occurred, text in the address bar is replaced by black green or grey blocks. I tried the fix I tried last time, about:config> gfx.xrender.enabled, toggle to false. It didn't hold first time and I did it again but closed and re-opened the browser to quickly I think, and now the the all white browser with no controls has re-appeared. I *could *try 
mv ~/.mozilla ~/.mozilla.bak 
again but I need to tell you a couple of other things to make sure I'm not getting into a worse mess:

Because it would have been a long winded process to copy and paste the commands as I had no browser, I typed them out manually and made a mistake, typing mv ~/.mozilla ~.mozilla.bak instead, without the second forward slash. Surprisingly it still worked and there is a folder named ~.mozilla.bak in "home", but I noticed the mistake when I tried to revert, because terminal correctly could not find .mozilla.bak.
There is now a new .mozilla folder added to "home" as well.

I would prefer if someone guided me out of this mess in steps so I do as little more damage as possible, as I am creating folders I do not want, but if you think it is safe to just mv ~/.mozilla ~/.mozilla.bak again for now, I will try it.

BTW I have the original profile folder backed up so could I just put it in the new .mozilla >Firefox folder, delete the other default profiles and delete the incorrect ~.mozilla.bak folder too, and begin again from there with 
mv ~/.mozilla ~/.mozilla.bak?

---

### Post by peterburnett on 2015-08-19
I have the same problem with the blocks in the address bar which I corrected as you did, and so it shows that that is probably the problem. I previously corrected it completely under a previous version of Firefox in the way you described. Thus it may be a bug. Maybe Mozilla should be notified. The easiest thing for me to do is install the previous version of FF. By the way I misspoke when I told you ~ is shorthand for Home. There is /home and then there is your Home directory. You will see the diff if you do "cd ~" compared to "cd /home". After each you can do a "pwd" to show where you are. Also you can Google "command line install chrome ubuntu" to install Chrome browser and use it for the time being. You can also go into Ubuntu Software Center to install Chromium. Yes feel free to use this thread all you want or start your own. Thanks.

---

### Post by benawhile on 2015-08-19
[SIZE=2][FONT=arial]Thank you. I have narrowed down the problem. I can create a new profile in the profile manager and launch firefox but a previous bug still exists, the text in the address bar is replaced by solid coloured blocks. The only fix I know for this is about:config>gfx.xrender toggle from true to false, but on relaunching firefox the white screen returns.
 

 1. In terminal, after purging firefox, both
 apt-cache show firefox | grep Version
 and
 apt-cache
policy firefox show only versions 28 or 40 available. Will version 28 be OK or is there a way of getting v39?
 

 2. Should I report a bug, and where should I report it? On bugzilla? Is it easy to report a bug or find if it is already being worked on?
 

 This is not good. I guess I will have to go for chromium for now but want firefox back.
 In any case I am wondering whether to cross post and post this as a new thread.
BTW, in this case I am using Lubuntu 14:04 on an old Dell Latitude x300, not ubuntu.
[/FONT][/SIZE]

---

### Post by peterburnett on 2015-08-20
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/first-xubuntu](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/first-xubuntu)
10 things to do first in Xubuntu 14.04 LTS


The above article says not to uninstall applications that come installed with the OS; and it's probably good advice although I have not noticed any problems after I uninstalled FF v40 and reinstalled.


[https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/install-older-version-of-firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/install-older-version-of-firefox)


This link is in the above page
[https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/firefox/releases/](https://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/firefox/releases/)


I'm not going to do anything with this for awhile and I just don't have the experience to be giving you advice about what to do. If you open another thread about this matter, please send me the link to it so I can follow it.


Thanks.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2015-08-20
> **benawhile said:**
> 
Because it would have been a long winded process to copy and paste the commands as I had no browser, I typed them out manually and made a mistake, typing mv ~/.mozilla ~.mozilla.bak instead, without the second forward slash. Surprisingly it still worked and there is a folder named ~.mozilla.bak in "home", but I noticed the mistake when I tried to revert, because terminal correctly could not find .mozilla.bak.
There is now a new .mozilla folder added to "home" as well.
all you did was back it up to a different location instead of putting it in ~/.mozilla.bak you put it in ~/~.mozilla.bak
so the new move cmd is:
mv ~/~.mozilla.bak ~/.mozilla

you do realize there are other browsers in the software center right
eg midori chromium-browser
since i think someone here is using a outdated/unsupported ubuntu install i will give you the script i dug out of the archives
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1920695.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1920695.html)
i made some patches to it  to make it work on 14.04
[http://pastebin.com/kWhVMHFd](http://pastebin.com/kWhVMHFd)
that script will give you the current firefox 40.0.2

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2015-08-20
I had/have this same problem, that after the latest update of Firefox to version 40, FF only starts to show the first frame or frames, not showing the address bar and the next widgets.
This is on my old Toshiba laptop, with a Pentium M processor (I read more computers with this processor experienced this problem).
On this laptop, a while ago, I had the problem of blocks in my address bar, instead of the name of the present webpage, which I could fix using about:config in the address bar, and toggling the flag called gfx.xrender.enabled.
After the latest update of FF (version 40) I could fix the problem of Firefox not loading fully by changing the profile to a new one, as described above by another poster, which I did in the terminal, typing after the $ prompt: firefox -P, deleting the standard profile and starting Firefox ***in the same dialog window*** (which creates a new default profile).
Firefox now loads completely. Only: the address bar was blocked again

Now this: when I toggled the gfx.xrender.enabled flag again, Firefox did again not load completely, stopping after the first frame or frames, not showing any other widgets such as menu and address bar!!!

I think that for some time, until Mozilla fixes this, we have to live with these blocks. Which is not such a problem, as these blocks disappear by double clicking once or twice in the address bar :)

I read that some people could address this blocks problem by using an other theme. I did not try this yet, as my laptop is not my main computer.

Topsiho

---

### Post by benawhile on 2015-08-20
Thanks for the links. It's a big page but I could not see any advice about uninstalling bundled applications, could you point me to it?

Now just found this which implies that I need to get 15:04 to fix the problem.!!!

[https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/mozilla.support.firefox/o0dmgptqya0](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/mozilla.support.firefox/o0dmgptqya0)

---

### Post by peterburnett on 2015-08-20
yw. It's a useful info in general; it advises installing synaptic and such.

10 things to do first in Xubuntu 14.04 LTS
[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/first-xubuntu](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/first-xubuntu)


Some don'ts (including the one not to remove bundled applications) are in another page linked to the above page.


search (ctl+f) "10 mistakes that you definitely want to avoid"


which is:


[https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/fatalmistakes](https://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/fatalmistakes)


And by the way ~ is shorthand for $HOME, $Home, and $home (and even $hOme)


[h=3][/h]

---

### Post by benawhile on 2015-08-20
Hold everything, think I have found solution, will post back when laptop has upgraded to 13:04 vivacious vervet or whatever. A forum on goog;le groups alerted me that this mat be the proplem, FF 40 incompatible with 14:04
Will post back in couple hours

---

### Post by benawhile on 2015-08-20
pqwoerituytrueiwoq
Thank you. I seem to have fixed the problem by upgrading to 15:04. I had to do this via 14:10 first, which is normal if you miss an upgrade until it is unsupported. Although FF at first opened with the white screen, I set another new profile and it seems OK. 
Thank you for the links, which I do not seem to need now.
But if I ever do, or need something similar, could you explain briefly what they are? I wouldn't know what to do with them.
The top link is to the archived download script and the next one is to the same script that you have kindly modified for me.
What do I do with this script? Just paste the whole lot into a terminal? Then will that download firefox?
 Is the raw paste data section exactly the same without the different colours?
What to the different colours do?
Is this just another way of downloading firefox, and why do you suggest this rather than downloading via software centre, synaptic, direct from Mozilla site ?
Anyway I now have a working FF 40, without having to change gfx.xrender to false. I hope it remains so.
Topsiho, it seems this is what you need to do as well.
Solved for me but not my thread. Peter, would you mark this solved?

---

### Post by peterburnett on 2015-08-20
Thanks for the lead about this. Yes indeed it clears the problem up by installing the FXChrome theme as described in the page of link below. This solution allows me to keep 14.04 LTS.  
[https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/997900](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/questions/997900)
Thanks again.

---

