---
title: "14.04 broke...everything"
date: 2014-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ertai87 on 2014-04-20
I just upgraded from 12.04 LTS to 14.04 LTS.  All of the following worked on 12.04 and have been broken during the upgrade.  Please assist:

1)  I used to use ibus/anthy to switch between English and Japanese input. My toolbar no longer shows Japanese support being installed.

2) Related to 1, I am unable to view system settings.  When I try to open system settings, I get a blank window.  The window does not populate.

3) I cannot connect to wifi.  I can see my wifi network, and I can type my password, but my computer won't connect to the network.  When I attempt to connect, I get the "connecting" symbol in the toolbar, and then get the "disconnected" notification.  I am 100% sure that the password is correct, and I downloaded the upgrade over this network, so the network is not down.

4) I do not have a sound settings icon in my toolbar until I attempt to adjust the volume.  The sound icon does not populate into the toolbar by default.  Interestingly, the login screen does have the sound icon, but it disappears on login.

These are all the issues I'm having at the moment.  Can someone help me solve some or all of these?  Thanks.

---

### Post by Ertai87 on 2014-04-20
Modification to problem 3: I am unable to use any networking.  Wired connection does not work either.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-04-20
Save your data and do a clean install, not worth the troubles trying to fix a bad upgrade. "upgrade" is unreliable, takes long time and even more likely to break something when you skipped two versions. Always do a clean install.

---

### Post by Ertai87 on 2014-04-20
Well, having no computer to download the iso for 14.04, I reinstalled 12.04 and it seems to be working.  I think I'll wait a bit before trying 14.04 again.

---

