---
title: "How to keep second drive mounted"
date: 2010-02-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by The bagwan on 2010-02-02
Hi. I'm wanting to keep my second NTFS HDD mounted in Ubuntu so all users have full access without me having to re-authenticate the drive everytime I restart the computer.

Many thanks

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2010-02-02
Add a relevant entry to your /etc/fstab file, there are alot of tutorials on how to do this.

I have an entry like this for my ext3 drives.
#/dev/sdc1
/dev/sdc1 /media/300-S      ext3    errors=remount-ro 0

---

### Post by NFblaze on 2010-02-02
You will need to edit yor /etc/fstab

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131)

---

### Post by The bagwan on 2010-02-03
You'll have to excuse my Newbiness, but Linux is new to me and is taking time for me to get my head around.

To make life easier I installed Pysdm and ran it via Storage Device Manager. My second drive is SDB formatted as NTFS. Unfortunately in Storage device manager I'm given 2 partitions in SDA (sda1 and sda5) and SDB, whilst there, is greyed out and doesn't show anything.

sudo fdisk -l shows me
************************************
[sudo] password for htpc: 

Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00062547

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        9358    75168103+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2            9359        9729     2980057+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5            9359        9729     2980026   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 1500.3 GB, 1500301910016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 182401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
htpc@htpc:~$ 
*************************************

so, lets do it manually I thought.

my fstab is now;

**************************************
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=4d4df852-566c-438c-b7dc-76b160ba5632 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7f07c1ec-8f3a-4cfa-8126-29caf9554379 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
#Entry for /dev/sdb
/dev/sda5 /media/mediatank ntfs ro,auto,user,fmask=0111,dmask=0000 0 0
******************************************

The drive is called mediatank and I've got it mounted at media/mediatank.

Unfortunately I still have to log in to the drive to remount everytime I restart the machine.

Your assistance is hugely appreciated.

---

### Post by The bagwan on 2010-02-03
I changed the last entry to;

#####################

#Entry for /dev/sdb
/dev/sdb /media/mediatank ntfs ro,auto,user,fmask=0111,dmask=0000 0 0

##################

now i get the error

Unable to mount Mediatank
Error mounting: mount exited with exit code 1: helper failed with:
Unprivileged user can not mount NTFS block devices using the external FUSE
library. Either mount the volume as root, or rebuild NTFS-3G with integrated
FUSE support and make it setuid root. Please see more information at
[http://ntfs-3g.org/support.html#unprivileged](http://ntfs-3g.org/support.html#unprivileged)

..yipe :-(

---

### Post by The bagwan on 2010-02-03
I have Ntfs-3g installed. Anyone able to help?

---

### Post by Jackzor on 2010-02-03
The way that I did it back in the day when I ran my dual boot...

I installed and configured the NTFS Configuration tool..

Open the Ubuntu Software Center and search NTFS and install NTFS Configuration tool

Use it. It mounts my "Passthrough" drive at start up with no problem.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2010-02-03
Try this line
```
/dev/sdb/media/mediatank ntfs relatime 0 2
```

---

### Post by The bagwan on 2010-02-03
@Teobigusgeekus

I tried the line you suggested, but it still doesn't auto boot and when i go to mount i get the error;
Erro mounting: mount exited with exit code 1:helper failed with:
Mount:only root can mount /dev/sdb on /media/mediatank

@jackzor
I originally tried NTFS Configurator. First time internal drives were greyed out, and it did nothing. I just gave it another go and;

Mounting /media/mediatank failed
Failed to mount '/dev/sdb': invalid argument
The device '/dev/sdb': doesn't seem to have a valid NTFS. Maybe the wrong device is used? Or the whole disk instead of the partition, or the other way around.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2010-02-03
Ok, let's try to do it via UUID.
Mount the drive manually, open terminal and type
```
sudo blkid
```
The command will return the UUIDs of your drives.
Add this line in your fstab file
```
UUID=whateveritiswithoutthequotes /media/mediatank	ntfs	relatime	0	2
```

---

### Post by The bagwan on 2010-02-03
Hey TeoBigUsGeekus,

Inadvertently you saved me. I'm sure I formated the drive as NTSC but when I used the command you gave me 'sudo blkid' it told me it was vfat. Added vfat instead of NTSC and it worked. Only thing is it now takes about 5 3 mins to load (was less than 30 secs). Any way to speed this up?

I feel like such an R-tard, thanks guys for all your  help. :P

---

