---
title: "14.04: No desktop toolbars after compiz"
date: 2014-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t-timmy on 2014-09-25
Hi,
This was actually posted here (first result on Google), but the thread is closed: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1750975](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1750975)

I installed Compiz Settings Manager from the "AppStore" and after trying to enable the effects my desktop now doesn't have any toolbars. I can't even shutdown the laptop.
I won't try that again...

I can't reach the settings manager again, and if I try Alt+Ctrl+1, the terminal won't accept my password (even though I am logged in with it right now!) I tried caps lock, num lock, "root", "toor", "su", everything, it just says "Login incorrect".
Thank god I'm in dual boot or else I won't have a functioning way of writing this.

Thanks for the help and please open the previous thread as it is #1 on Google and maybe others have the same problem...

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-09-25
You can enable a whole range of different effects with ccsm, so it would be of some possible help to narrow it down.

That said, can you login to the normal session, non-ctrl+alt+F1?
If so, when logged in, and I assume it's just a blank screen, can you initiate a terminal with ctrl+alt+T ?
If so, do so and type ccsm.
The setting-manager will open again and from here you can reset everything to the defaults.
Step one would be to go to the left side and click on preferences.
Step two would be in the main window, under the profile, should be a button marked "Reset to Defaults", click on it.
Step Three, Panic time. When you reset the settings to the defaults it'll most likely act crazy. Let it do it's things, it should come back shortly.
Step Four, you now need to re-enable the Ubuntu Unity Plugin ( I assume this is Default Ubuntu, if not never mind this). Click on the Plugin I mentioned and open it.
In the left area is the enable button, click it. You might be asked to enable certain things, best practice is to slect the highlighted options, from what I've ever seen at least(works best for me)
That should do it.

Alternatively would be the dconf reset tools from here
[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-reset-compiz-and-unity-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/10/how-to-reset-compiz-and-unity-in-ubuntu.html)

either method should work, Though I do not know how it'll work for you under the current circumstances without knowing what you can and cannot do.
Hope it helps though...

---

### Post by t-timmy on 2014-09-25
Very good! You helped a lot, thanks for taking the time.

A few corrections if anyone else around the world gets here:
Ctrl-Alt-T didn't do anything, but Ctrl-Shift-T (I think) brought up the file manager. I clicked on the search icon and searched for "ccsm" and then launched the Settings Manager that I found there.
The Ubuntu Unity Plugin is listed under "Desktop", and while trying to enable it, something crashed but then somehow I got it to work.

So thanks again for the help.

I had a lot of trouble with this version of Ubuntu, it made a mess of my partitions and I had to manually restore it, and now this deal with compiz...
I'll stick around with the dual boot for now, just in case.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-09-25
Yeah, compiz likes to cause panic whenever it gets reset, more so when resetting the unity-plugin; it seems.
Odd key combo, never seen it.
You might look into another non-unity desktop, like gnome-flashback
Here's a nice thread on that
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264)
Metacity doesn't have the eyecandy like compiz, but from my own take, have never seen metacity cripple like a compiz session can/will/does.

It can also be helpful to have a second desktop, just in case. You can log into it and actually have a working session, to try to figure out what might be wrong with the broken one.
Just my opinion, though, anyway.

---

