---
title: "Unable to mount windows disc after upgrade"
date: 2009-03-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jcl43 on 2009-03-11
So today I ran updates and after they finished my windows partition was missing from the desktop and when I attempt to mount I get the following error:

Cannot mount volume

You are not privileged to mount the volume 'Local Disk'


Any ideas? Im not sure how to mount this from command line, when I try to I get the following error:

can't find localdisk in /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab


Im guessing its not really called localdisk? 

Any help is appreciated!

---

### Post by MaxIBoy on 2009-03-11
No, it's not actually called "local disk." 

Does anything show up in "places?" Even if it doesn't work when you try to mount it, that icon is still useful. 

The name of the disk is usually either "/dev/hd***" or /dev/sd*." If you happen to have a floppy drive, that will be "/dev/fd*," but of course you don't have one because you're too cool for that.

IDE drives use the "/dev/hd*" naming series. The first IDE drive is "/dev/hda," the second IDE drive is "/dev/hdb," the third IDE drive is "/dev/hdc," and so on. The first partition on the first IDE drive is "/dev/hda1," the second partition is "/dev/hda2," and so on.

SCSI drives use the "dev/sd*" naming series. Same drill. "/dev/sdz3" would be the third partition on the 26th SCSI drive. **Note that SATA drives and USB drives are supported in Linux by having it pretend that they are SCSI, so SATA drives and USB drives will also be in "/dev/sd*."**



So now that you have the partition's name, you can do ```
cat /etc/fstab | grep /dev/name_of_your_partition
cat /etc/mtab | grep /dev/name_of_your_partition
``` My guess is that you will find an entry in fstab.

My guess is that you have a simple permissions problem. You just need to give your user permission to mount the partition. If there's no entry in fstab or mtab, you can create them.

---

### Post by jcl43 on 2009-03-11
Thanks for the good info. I was guessing a simple permissions issue as well. I am not familiar with mtab or fstab though. Are they files listing drives (my guess)? Also running the two commands doesnt return anything. How would I go about adding them?

Thanks again for your help....much appreciated

---

### Post by MaxIBoy on 2009-03-11
When you type in mount /dev/the_name_of_your_partition, the "mount" program does this:

[LIST=1]
[*]If the user specified all the information I need (filesystem type, device, and where to mount the filesystem to,) go ahead.
[*]If the user did not specify every single piece of information I need look in /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab.
[/LIST]

Each entry in fstab or mtab contains information for that a partition. The information for /dev/hda2, for example, could be "filesystem type is FAT16, we need to mount this to /home/some-guy/videos, options=don't automatically mount this and use the utf8 character set."

Here's my fstab:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=1f42771d-2847-4cee-8ad3-2e5ccd14510e /               ext3    relatime,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda3
UUID=2d11a112-e75a-4da3-95a5-385e39208648 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0   
```You can see here I'm mounting the file system "proc" at mount point "/proc" with type "proc," options "defaults," and "dump" and "pass" both disabled.

Course, you should never mess with /proc because that's a virtual disk in RAM that Linux uses to hold all the running programs. 

But if I just typed in, for example, mount /dev/scd0, it the mount command would look in this file and see that it should mount at mount pount "/media/cdrom0," etc. etc. etc, without me havint to type all that stuff in. (The UUID is synonymous with /dev/whatever, but it's easier for computers to understand.)


Just google "editing fstab" and you'll get plenty of results.

---

### Post by jcl43 on 2009-03-11
Indeed i do get a lot of results. I am still confused about how my fstab looks and what it means. 

```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=e3e5c43f-77a4-42e9-8c70-5b96bf091fac / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=125c7a01-6cc5-4d4b-9abf-936868839200 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Local\040Disk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```

Im guessing I need to mount sda1? but it still says it cant find it...same with sdb5.

Sorry, Im really confused here

---

### Post by MaxIBoy on 2009-03-11
By the looks of your fstab, sdb1 is your main ("/") partition and sdb5 is your swap partition. Obviously you can't run at all without your main partition mounted, and you almost certainly have your swap partition mounted. I do not suggest messing with either of those. :)


Just run the command ```
ls /dev/sd* /dev/hd*
``` and see if any partitions show up that are currently not mentioned in fstab or mtab. The ones missing from the /etc/*tab files would be the ones that aren't mounting because they don't have entries.

---

