---
title: "16.04 : Screen cannot be turned back on after being switched off due to inactivity"
date: 2016-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by touil1976 on 2016-05-04
I used to have ubuntu 12.04 on my old dell computer in which there is an ati radeon X1300 graphics card. I had no problem with it, but support for ubuntu 12.04 is coming to an end in a year. So I did a fresh install of ubuntu 16.04.

Now whenever the screen turns off due to inactivity, it cannot be woken up by moving the mouse or by hitting a key. The same ubuntu 16.04 installed on a laptop with intel graphics card  doesn't show this problem, so I first guessed it was related to the  radeon driver. But as there is no problem waking the screen after I type  "xset -display :0.0 dpms force off" in a terminal, it looks like the  radeon driver is not the culprit.

What I found out is that, when the screen goes to sleep after some time of inactivity, it looks that other computer peripherals go to sleep too : namely, the keyboard seems to stop responding, for example, its numlock state cannot be changed anymore (the led on the keyboard cannot be switched off or on).

I'd like some help to find what goes wrong.


I filled a bug recently for this problem : [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-screensaver/+bug/1577170](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-screensaver/+bug/1577170)

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by touil1976 on 2016-05-06
EDIT : I just found that letting the screen be turned off when not  logged at all (when I boot the computer and don't log in for example)  causes no problem. The screen goes black and can be woken up by moving  the mouse or by hitting a key. The problem only appear when logged in,  whatever the user.

---

### Post by jeduke02 on 2017-01-26
Was there any fix for this?  Mine does the same thing and its a bit of a pain to hard restart the system.

---

### Post by touil1976 on 2017-01-27
I got a fix. Follow this link : [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/1577170](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/1577170)

---

### Post by jeduke02 on 2017-01-28
I found the link while browsing but have no clue how to utilize any of the information within it.  How do I install the patch?  I'm trying to get by with an old OLD laptop and just need to get it up and running.  I just dont know enough about it to understand that link.

---

