---
title: "9.10 studio + windows 7"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by man_bash on 2009-10-29
Hi everyone

I have downloaded M$ windows 7 (through MSDAA network, myself being a student). I do not plan to use W7 for any actual work, but I do plan to use it for a half a dozen or so games that I own. Now, here's the story.

I have a 500 GB HDD (466 GB after  formatting & including space loss due to binary nature of the size of the FS). I made a partition of about 100 GB for W7. I installed W7 on it. Then I proceeded to install Ubuntu 9.10 on the rest of the hdd space. I also made a 340 gb ext4 filesystem and 8 gb swap partition. All the space on the hdd was used up with these 3 partitions. Now, after install of Karmic Studio I cannot launch into W7. I do not have anything of value installed on either system, but how can I make the 2 OS's boot at will?

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-10-29
When your system boots and has just passed the self-tests, you should see a Grub notice that is counting down.

Either do what it says to see the menu, or hit the up or down arrow keys. A menu will appear. Windows 7 should be one of the choices.

---

### Post by zzzBrett on 2009-10-29
I think you can also hold down the shift key to bring up a hidden grub menu.

---

### Post by man_bash on 2009-10-29
No, the only options I see are:
9.10 and memtest

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-10-29
Boot Ubuntu. Log in. Bring up a terminal window.

```
sudo update-grub
```

It should tell you that it found Windows 7.

Did it?

If so:
```
sudo install-grub `grep hd0 /boot/grub/device.map | tail -1 | awk '{ print $2 }'`
```

That will install the modified MBR.


You can edit the base config via /etc/default/grub.

I set "DEFAULT=saved" so that it will boot whatever I booted last. (Windows automatic updates has a nasty habit of deciding a reboot would be swell)

I also set the timeout to 60 seconds.

I haven't figured out how to toggle hidden menu on/off.. :/

---

