---
title: "10.04 cannot load GUI"
date: 2012-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nacci11235 on 2012-01-11
I have been having the same problem (loading stops right before login credentials, power button gui still works) except I haven't updated recently, I'm running Ubuntu 10.04, and I only have one monitor.

I have been generating rainbow tables for a few days, and my computer has been running sometimes 12 hours at a time before I shut it down and give it a rest.  Prior to the login difficulties, my computer would sometimes not load my emerald theme or sometimes be unable to connect to the internet.

Any ideas on what I can do to repair this?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-01-11
Post moved to its own thread.

---

### Post by nacci11235 on 2012-01-11
Since my post has been moved to its own thread, I'll give some more details about what's happening.

I run Ubuntu 10.04.  I cannot log into my computer.  When my computer is booting, it loads the login screen background, but stops before loading the login credentials.

I chose the option of encrypting my desktop, so maybe something happened and linux is not seeing my directory.  For the past few days, I have been generating rainbow tables so my computer has been under a lot of stress; maybe this caused the problem.

I don't really know what's going on here.  Does anyone have some advice for me?

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2012-01-11
My first thought would be to see if you can boot a Live CD/DVD and if so run fsck

---

### Post by nacci11235 on 2012-01-11
I ran fsck and it returned:
fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2

[edit] I ran fsck -f and I got 5 passes and then:
/dev/sda1: 239654/7028736 files (0.4% non-contiguous), 6086762/28103168 blocks

I haven't used fsck before so I am unsure of what this means/what a healthy result looks like.

[edit] I managed to completely screw the computer up.  I'm just going to reinstall.

Thanks blue for the help

---

