---
title: "Mouse and keyboard are slow"
date: 2006-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by abrarey on 2006-01-06
typing and moving mouse is real slow.
i'm running ubuntu 5.10 32 bits
my computer is a Athlon 64 3000, 760 MB RAM
80 GB Sata
128 MB Nvidia fx5200
I have instald the latest driver for Nvidia using Synaptic.
I installed KDE and i had no changes, typing is real slow and the mouse move slow too
any recommendation please.

---

### Post by Mr Frosti on 2006-01-06
What type of keyboard and mouse do you have? If the keyboard is operating slowly, is it in a specific program? Are programs running slowly as well? 

Click on "Applications" -> "System Tools" -> "System Monitor". This is similar to Task Manager for Windows. Expand the windows so that you can see the CPU column. Click on it to sort by CPU usage descending. This will report any programs that are consuming a lot of resources at the top. If any programs are over 40%, select them and click on "End Process", then confirm.

If no programs show up as using a lot of resources, try typing outside of the X Window system. Open up tty1 by pressing "Ctl" + "Alt" + "F1". You will be prompted to login. Do so and note the speed of the keyboard. Does the issue still exist? If so, something in the X Window system is taking up more than average resources. Please report any programs that are running with a lot of resources here.

---

### Post by abrarey on 2006-01-07
I'm using a logitech cordless keyboard and mouse, I opnethe syste monitor and no one program is consuming a lot of resources.
the keyboard is slow in every program I run when typing.
the proble continues outside of the X Window System.
I've been using Fedora 4 and Suse 10 and there's no problem using the mouse or the keyboard.
All the programs runs well, when i move the mouse the cursor move slow and flickering.

---

### Post by abrarey on 2006-01-07
Im trying using another keyboard and mouse and works well. but i need to know how to make work my cordless keyboard and mouse.
The models are>
Logitech cordless keyboard Y-RJ21
logitech cordless mouse M-RR67A

---

### Post by Mr Frosti on 2006-01-07
Can you post your xorg.conf file so I can see what configuration / drivers you are using for the keyboard and mouse? 

To do this, click on "Places" -> "Computer". Browse to "etc/X11/xorg.conf".

---

### Post by abrarey on 2006-01-07
ok this is my xorg.conf

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option          "NoLogo"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"CT700g"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"CT700g"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


---

