---
title: "10.04 LTS - Desktop or Server ?"
date: 2010-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2010-05-16
My updates keeps asking me to install the latest 10.04 LTS

I'm not sure I understand what it is

From the Ubuntu website you see the 10.04 but on the right you see 10.04 LTS server ?

So the question is:
Is 10.04 LTS for server or desktop edition.

They did not make this very clear on the Ubuntu main page.

Please advise how to interpret this.

Thanks

---

### Post by isoToxin on 2010-05-16
10.04 LTS comes in desktop and server editions.  LTS just stands for "LONG TERM SUPPORT" and means that this particular release of ubuntu will be supported for a full 3 years (standard support duration on most releases is 18 months).

If you upgrade using update manager from a desktop edition, it will retain this and you will update to 10.04LTS desktop.

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2010-05-16
> **isoToxin said:**
> 10.04 LTS comes in desktop and server editions.  LTS just stands for "LONG TERM SUPPORT" and means that this particular release of ubuntu will be supported for a full 3 years (standard support duration on most releases is 18 months).

If you upgrade using update manager from a desktop edition, it will retain this and you will update to 10.04LTS desktop.

Ok got it thanks

I have 9.10 now, so 10.04 is the latest release then.

Thanks
:popcorn:

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2010-05-16
But if everything is working and you don't feel like tweaking a few things and possibly stuffing around a bit or possibly a lot for the sake of having the latest release or if you are running production machines or need stability and can't afford downtime, stick with 9.10 and try 10.04 in a month or three. 

Just a tip. I personally only have a couple of times a year when I can make any major changes because one never quite knows what might transpire and can't normally afford to take that chance of unknown length of downtime.

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2010-05-19
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> But if everything is working and you don't feel like tweaking a few things and possibly stuffing around a bit or possibly a lot for the sake of having the latest release or if you are running production machines or need stability and can't afford downtime, stick with 9.10 and try 10.04 in a month or three. 

Just a tip. I personally only have a couple of times a year when I can make any major changes because one never quite knows what might transpire and can't normally afford to take that chance of unknown length of downtime.

Yep I'll probably do that because 9.10 64 is running very nice on my machine right now

---

