---
title: "UNR 10.10=Slow, Desktop=fast, Same machine. Fix?"
date: 2011-02-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by StartLifeEndLife on 2011-02-27
Hello, I am new to Linux in general, but know its awesome. 

I have an HP mini 100 with 2gb ram and the n270 atom processor 

Win xp became impossibly slow so after I tried everything to speed it up save for a full reinstall, i decided to install ubuntu netbook remix 10.10.--Dual boot per my cold feet. 

I tried it out first on pendrive and liked it alot but thought it was kinda slow, but i figured that was because it wasn't running on my hard drive. (hdd)

However, after installing it on a 30 gig partition I am finding it impossibly slow. 

Once an app is opened it runs relatively well, but even waiting for my clicks to register takes at least five seconds and an app takes anywhere from 5 seconds to one minute to open. 

It does boot up and shut down in less than thirty seconds or so. 

After looking for a reason/solution i decided to just try the desktop version on usb to see if it was my machine. That version runs crazy fast, even on usb. Apps either open immediately or in a very reasonable time. 

I am wondering what gives? 

Is there a way to fix netbook remix on my machine to make it faster?--i read some bit about a bug but i thought it said that was resolved. 

Please help.  I would like to use netbook remix, but if there is no fix i am okay with desktop version..i just have to figure out how to switch them on the partition. 

Thank you 

FYI i know how to work command line terminal, I just don't know all linux commands.

---

### Post by marin123 on 2011-02-27
unity in 10.10 is no longer supported. its a dead end.

use desktop version until april when 11.04 is released. then you will get hardware acceleration and compiz effects for unity.

you dont need to reinstall ubuntu, just choose Desktop session when logging in.

---

### Post by StartLifeEndLife on 2011-02-27
Wow, thanks didn't realize that I had desktop as well. 

One odd thing, when i logged back into UNR it was much faster, but nevermind im done with that, desktop is still faster. 

But, is there a way to configure which session I boot into? Right now it automatically logs me into netbook remix without asking me for a username and then just wants a password. I then have to log out completely and log back in to to choose desktop.

---

### Post by Gillingham on 2011-02-27
Yes - find "Login Screen" in the administration menu and change the default session.

David

---

### Post by StartLifeEndLife on 2011-02-27
Thanks guys!

---

