---
title: "9.10 consistently crashing on log in"
date: 2009-12-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Prodromoi on 2009-12-05
I upgraded to 9.10 a week or so ago and things have been good - up 'til now.

I found that my computer had frozen while I was out of the room so, reluctantly, pressed the soft boot key.  Normally on the fairly rare occasions that I've needed to to that the system starts up just find after carrying out a few checks (checking or restoring journal, or a similar term).

This time, however, all is not well.  It gets as far as the "choosing a user" screen, then after about a second the screen goes black, and I have to reboot or power off the system.

To be thorough I've done a Memtest check, and run up a LiveCD (in safe graphics mode) of 9.10 which works fine, so it seems that the hardware is OK.  My suspicion is that the crash and reboot has corrupted a file which isn't needed until that point.

The machine is a 64-bit AthlonXP, with an NVidia 7200LE graphics card.  I use the Restricted Drivers package to get the full functionality of the graphics card.

I'm getting desperate now...  Has anyone got a suggestion as to how I can repair my install?

Thanks in advance.
A

---

### Post by Prodromoi on 2009-12-05
Been trying to sort this out since posting the thread - I think I've ruled out any hardware problem.  However I have no idea what files may have been lost or corrupted, or what I should do to fix it.

Recommendations and experiences welcome...  I don't want to re-install 9.10 over the main partition without having an idea of whether this will repair the problem, or lose a load of stuff.  (My data is, of course, stored on other partitions.)

Thanks,
A

---

### Post by Prodromoi on 2009-12-06
Adding to this, I've done an fsck (using a Live CD) this morning on all the partitions.  One reports an error, the others report as fine.  The error received is:

```
fsck.ext2: Attempt to read block from filesystem resulted in short read while trying to open /dev/sda2
Could this be a zero-length partition?
```

/dev/sda2 is the extended partition that contains my logical partitions, so I don't even know whether this would be a normal response for this type of partition.

Any assistance please?

---

### Post by Prodromoi on 2009-12-06
Update - I ran my old Partition Magic 8 CD as a boot CD to see what it had to say.  Yes, I realise it's not a very current program any more, but I'm stuck.

It displayed an error message that it has found an extended partition that crosses the 1024 cylinder boundary that is not marked as an ExtendedX partition and offers to amend it to an ExtendedX partition (which I declined, since I don't know if this is a problem for Ubuntu or not).  The error message code is 110.

So back to the Live CD.  I though it would help to resize /dev/sda1 down by a few MB and then increase /dev/sda2 (the extended partition) to take up that space, thinking it might rewrite and partition data that may be causing a problem.  No luck though; GParted has a key symbol against /dev/sda2 and I cannot even attempt that.

Help?

---

### Post by brettg on 2009-12-06
Well, it might be a bit too late considering you've already done a bunch of stuff including  messing about with partition magic, but . . .

What happens if you press ctrl-alt-F1? Can you login in text mode? What does dmesg tell you?

---

### Post by Prodromoi on 2009-12-06
That's not patronising, I appreciate the suggestion.  I presume that gets Ubuntu into text mode.  I'll try it now... At what stage should I press it?

Tried that a few times; seems I need to do it around the GRUB stage.  On the occasions I got the timing right I got a screenful of garbage - just a pattern of green horizontal dashes.

---

### Post by sideaway on 2009-12-06
I've got a similar issue. Except completely different hardware. But also 64bit. perhaps an update?

e8400, 4gb ddr2-800, many, many HDDs, Radeon HD4870.

I have an automatic logon, as once the Ubuntu splash with the little bussy scrolling bar below it disappears, the screen just goes black and the system is completely unresponsive. ctrl alt f1 doesn't work nor to f2,3,4,5,6 etc.

---

### Post by sideaway on 2009-12-06
Ok, I booted to an alternative kernel version, and I recieved greeting me was a working DE. But have since restarted (silly idea) as now none of my installed alternative kernel versions will boot either!

ARRRG.

---

### Post by sideaway on 2009-12-07
anyone?

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2009-12-07
Read this article on how to change a password.  Of course, our objective is not that but it tells you a couple of methods on how to get to a console from the boot menu.
[http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/linux/reset-your-forgotten-ubuntu-password-in-2-minutes-or-less/](http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/linux/reset-your-forgotten-ubuntu-password-in-2-minutes-or-less/)

If you manage to get a console, then examine the files /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old
and /var/log/Xorg.0.log using vi or nano editors.  If you are not familiar with any of them, do "cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old" and see if you are able to find any errors.

Perhaps you can even try starting gdm from the terminal:
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2009-12-07
More interesting stuff to reconfigure X:
[http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/columns/how_to_fix_your_computers_graphics_with_dpkg-reconfigure](http://www.freesoftwaremagazine.com/columns/how_to_fix_your_computers_graphics_with_dpkg-reconfigure)

---

### Post by Prodromoi on 2009-12-12
Solved, with the assistance of a friend who's an expert in Linux.  Granted we're not sure **why** this fix worked, but it did and you can't argue with results!

After much trial and error and headscratching, removing the 'splash' call from the /boot/grub/menu.lst file solved the problem.  The system boots reliably again.  Why this call was suddenly causing such a problem seems bizarre, but that was how we fixed it.

Having got back into the OS, we found that the "fast switcher" application had developed a problem and put up an error screen with the option to delete it.  We did, and that was the end of that.  It's such an unimportant app anyway I'd probably have removed it had it occurred to me before this happened!

Lastly, Firefox had lost it's bookmarks.html file and the history facility wasn't working.  Deleting the new blank bookmark file and the other related files solved that, but of course the old bookmarks are lost.  Not a big deal.

---

