---
title: "21.04 Firefox Bookmark Crash"
date: 2021-08-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rwe061 on 2021-08-01
Intel® Core™ i7-6700 CPU @ 3.40GHz × 8 
Mesa Intel® HD Graphics 530 (SKL GT2)
Ubuntu 21.04  GNOME 3.38.5 Wayland
Dual Monitors

Interesting Firefox problem after 'upgrade' to 21.04 .  Firefox has a horizontal bookmark toolbar near the top of the window.  If you have more bookmarks than fit on the line, there is a ">>" symbol at the rightmost end of the toolbar.  If firefox is windowed, and leaves some space to the right of the firefox window, hover over the ">>" will vertically show the rest of the bookmark entries.  However, if I widen the firefox window so that drop down display won't fit on the screen, it does not show the overflow bookmarks as it should.  Sometimes firefox simply makes an exit without any message.  If I make the firefox window as wide as the display, then it is likely to display the toolbar overflow on the display screen to the right.  Sometimes Firefox doesn't crash right away, but will crash after a short time.  

So, just curious if this happens to anyone else.

---

### Post by philhughes on 2021-08-01
I haven't seen this exact problem (I don't use the Bookmarks toolbar), but I get something similar.

Have Firefox open maximized on the left monitor. If you have the "Bookmarks Menu" icon on the far right of the toolbar, and have a bookmarks folder in the menu, the items should display automatically when you mouse over the folder name. If the items are too wide to display to the right, they should display to the left. However, they do not display. I have not seen Firefox crash due to this though. In this case, the fix is easy - move the icon away for the far right of the toolbar so that there is plenty of room for the items to display without spilling over the edge of the display.

---

### Post by rwe061 on 2021-08-01
Thanks.  I am able to work around the issue I see also.  That's not really a fix; avoidance.  ;)

I wonder if there is some sort of bug in a display driver.  Your issue seems related to mine.

I never saw this in 20.10.

---

### Post by rwe061 on 2021-08-01
I'm not technical enough to know what this means, but the crash appears to be from firefox, and then possibly a separate issue is popup outside parent window:

There is a log, click Activities, then enter 'logs', then in the left panel select Applications

When I got firefox to crash:
-- Error 71 (Protocol error) dispatching to Wayland display.
Then if you click that line it shows some detail:
Sender  firefox
and some other details

And, I think when it doesn't crash I am getting this error:

-- Buggy client caused popup to be placed outside of parent window


I don't think this relates to the problem, I am using an old mouse.

-- libinput error: event3  - ImPS/2 Generic Wheel Mouse: client bug: event processing lagging behind by 30ms, your system is too slow

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2021-08-01
In the login screen, click the ubuntu symbol and choose the xorg session see if the problem persists. This sounds like a wayland issue.

---

### Post by rwe061 on 2021-08-01
Monkeybrain you are the man !!!

A quick check, but everything works with X11 so far.

thanks

---

