---
title: "10.10 DX-USBMIC Microphone?? will it work?"
date: 2010-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-10-14
I am about to pick up a DX-USBMIC microphone from BBY to do some average quality youtube voice overs for some videos.  I googled if it was compatible but only came up with a single Unresolved thread about it's connection issues.

The mic is compatible with win/mac and is USB driven.




[IMG]http://images.bestbuy.com/BestBuy_US/images/products/9185/9185972_sa.jpg[/IMG]
[http://www.bestbuy.com/site/Dynex%26%23153;+-+USB+Microphone/9185972.p?id=1218051662384&skuId=9185972&st=microphone&cp=1&lp=2](http://www.bestbuy.com/site/Dynex%26%23153;+-+USB+Microphone/9185972.p?id=1218051662384&skuId=9185972&st=microphone&cp=1&lp=2)

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-10-14
Well, I bought it and as I suspected it is not plug and play.  Where do I start??

Thanks.

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-10-16
Well, I don't know how I did it, but I figured it out. (more like got lucky again.)


 Why is this website so dead?  Is there a better tech site for my issues with Ubuntu?

---

### Post by neu5eeCh on 2010-11-08
Hi Sxynerd, I've just been rooting around, checking to see if there are any new developments with Ubuntu and microphones.

//Why is this website so dead?//

1.) Because Linux & Microphones are not a priority. 2.) Nobody knows how to help you. I have read that getting microphones to work can be a CPU by CPU nightmare (according to programmers). There is apparently no single fix for the issue. If you are lucky enough to have a computer with a functional input jack, good for you. If not, you will either spend weeks solving the problem, or weeks *not* solving the problem. As to USB microphones, wouldn't it be nice if the makers provided drivers? But even so, Ubuntu's audio management (ALSA and Pulse Audio) seems neglected and excessively problematic.

//Is there a better tech site for my issues with Ubuntu?//

No. If you google, you might find dozens of solutions. Most will be outdated. I tried some and destroyed my Ubuntu installation. Try some and maybe you will get lucky. That said, the best solution might be to install Windows in VirtualBox. Hate to say it...

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-11-14
I am sorry to bring my thread back from the dead but I wanted to share that I found out how to get it to work.

Since I'm an uber-noob I don't really know how I did it.  I know I downloaded a "pulse manager" and then went through and reset all of the appropriate settings and it worked.

Thanks for your reply VT.

---

