---
title: "10.04 login"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by montyman77 on 2010-05-01
I just upgraded to ubuntu desktop 10.04 and now whenever I boot up I don't see the cool logo and loading bar that I had in karmic koala.
when I boot up, i just see a black screen with a blinking cursor then some text quickly flashes then i hear the login souund and i see the desktop but not loading anything
this isn't a huge issue but i was just wondering if this was normal

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-01
Ya they took that throbber screen out. I think that's what they called it?

---

### Post by montyman77 on 2010-05-01
i heard that they updated the look, not made it worst
i guess it does increase the boot time but a black screen with a blinking cursor might freak some inexperienced users out

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-01
usplash has been removed in favour of plymouth. I personally prefered usplash since it played nice with propriety graphics drivers, but since boot time only takes a couple of seconds, I'm willing to look the other way on this issue. usplash is still in the repositories, so you could probably blacklist plymouth (since you can't uninstall it without removing ubuntu) and install usplash, but I can't see it being worth the hassle.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2010-05-01
> **montyman77 said:**
> i was just wondering if this was normal

No, it isn't. There should be a purple splash screen with "ubuntu" in a newly-designed font. But proprietary video drivers are messing that up in some cases. What video card and driver are you using?

> **montyman77 said:**
> but a black screen with a blinking cursor might freak some inexperienced users out

Every time I boot up Vista (not very often, I'll admit) I get a completely black screen for more than a minute before the login screen appears. Perhaps they're trying to make Vista users feel at home! :wink:

---

### Post by montyman77 on 2010-05-01
it uses an intel mobile graphics card i don't know what one exactly
i just rebooted it and it did a disk check and the purple screen showed up and before the purple screen only showed when shutting down
then i rebooted it again and still no purple screen

---

