---
title: "11.04, ondemand cpu scaler broken?"
date: 2011-08-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by blackshard on 2011-08-14
I'm trying Ubuntu 11.04 for a week now, tbh I'm not really fully satisfied with it: high hard drive temperatures, graphical glitches and often the radeon driver hung up and has to restart itself, not to mention the general X11 window lockups and graphical glitches. 

But the fact that the ondemand cpu scaler doesn't work good is truly absurd.

I launched an instance of prime95, a famous benchmark and stress tool program, and the ondemand scaler don't care of the fact that the program is using 100% of cpu usage. It just don't switch the processor on the fastest pstate, leaving it at miserable 525 Mhz.

If I use the conservative scaler, it correctly put the processor at high frequency when required.

For example, the 768Kb FFT benchmark takes at best 76.602ms with ondemand scaler and 32.884ms with the conservative scaler.

What's happening?

Configuration:
HP Notebook Pavilion DV5-1025el
Turion ZM-80 2.1 Ghz
RAM 4GB DDR2 800MHz
HDD WD 250 Gb
Ati Radeon HD3450 256 Mb.

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-08-14
Ubuntu defaults to ondemand. Having a Notebook it's probably better to leave it that way. You've been warned. :P

```
cat /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu0/cpufreq/scaling_available_governors
```

Will show you your options.

To change it to always use conservative edit this:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/init.d/ondemand
```

Change 
```
echo -n ondemand > $CPUFREQ
``` 

to 
```
echo -n conservative > $CPUFREQ
```
Reboot.

---

### Post by blackshard on 2011-08-14
Well I know that ondemand is used by default.

The problem is that it doesn't work good. It scales during normal usage, but with such  cpu-bound process (prime95) it just doesn't do anything, leaving the processor at the slowest power state.

I was used to launch prime95 to test my notebook with fedora sometimes. Also I noticed during the common usage, that there was some "slowness" during automatic updates, with windows reacting very slowly (I mean slow screen refresh and such things).

---

### Post by blackshard on 2011-08-15
Ok, looks like I sorted out the problem. It is related to laptop-mode configuration and in particular with IGNORE_NICE_LOAD setting. 

This setting, when enabled, will block transitions to higher power states when a low priority task is cpu-bound. Obviously this is not very clever, I think that automatic updates are set to low priority tasks too...

To stop this kind of behaviour, I just disabled the laptop-mode control for cpu frequency setting:

CONTROL_CPU_FREQUENCY=0

inside **/etc/laptop-mode/conf.d/cpufreq.conf**

else you can change xxx_CPU_IGNORE_NICE_LOAD (where xxx is BATT, LM or NOLM) setting to still use cpufreq facility from laptop-mode and stop this unclever behaviour.

Also this, as stated from the first post, happens only when ondemand scaler is set. Conservative scaler is not showing this problem, albeit its transitions are too slow by default to be of any interest.

---

