---
title: "12.04 LTS - What's new? Should I update?"
date: 2012-05-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chenxinghao on 2012-05-25
The Software Up to Date panel says that new release 12.04 LTS is available. A quick search for 12/04 LTS on this forum showed nothing.

I am running 11.10 and installed all automatic updates and happy with it.

Sorry for the newbie questions - I started Ubuntu in January and have been a happy user.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-05-25
See the link. [http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/whats-new](http://www.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/whats-new) 

If you plan to upgrade backup anything important see this link. [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseUpgrades)

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-05-25
Hi

Here's another link for you.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PrecisePangolin/ReleaseNotes/UbuntuDesktop)

I generally recommend waiting for the point release before upgrading but that's me.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Erik1984 on 2012-05-25
If you are happy with 11.10 I too should wait for the point release.

---

### Post by chenxinghao on 2012-05-25
What is "point release?"

---

### Post by galvatron408 on 2012-05-25
you should upgrade. there is this new feature where your screen will flash and then your computer is rebooted automatically. there is another feature where your computer shuts down but the fan continues running.

my favourite feature is where your startup programs don't start up any more.

but that's just me.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-05-25
Hi

> **chenxinghao said:**
> What is "point release?"

A point release is a release where they have (hopefully) ironed out some of the major bugs of the initial release.

It's like a Windows SP1, SP2,... release.

Of course, there are always bugs in any software.

> you should upgrade. there is this new feature where your screen will flash and then your computer is rebooted automatically. there is another feature where your computer shuts down but the fan continues running.

my favourite feature is where your startup programs don't start up any more.

but that's just me.

...and that is why it's wise to upgrade after the point release. (No offence meant).

Kind regards

---

### Post by bikertappy on 2012-05-25
I moved to 12.04 from 10-something when I got a 64-bit machine. It's taken a little getting used to, the GRUB menu was initially hidden, and Firefox *seemed* to be causing random crashes, but otherwise is OK. But as they say - if it ain't broke, don't fix it. Or at least wait until something else that ain't broke comes along..

---

### Post by chenxinghao on 2012-05-25
Thanks for the inputs - I am learning.

But how do I know which one is point release (unless it is explicitly said) and which one is not?

I recall installed Ubuntu in January with a CD (downloaded and made one) with 11.10. Is it considered as a "point release"?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-05-25
Hi

You looking for the point release of 12.04 and not 11.10. That is expected in June/July maybe ???

I'm not sure when and i am happy to be corrected with the correct date.

Kind regards

---

### Post by chenxinghao on 2012-05-25
Sorry - I might not be clear. When I installed 11.10 in January - I was directed by the Ubuntu install page, was it considered a point release at that time?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-05-25
Hi

> **chenxinghao said:**
> Sorry - I might not be clear. When I installed 11.10 in January - I was directed by the Ubuntu install page, was it considered a point release at that time?

I'm not sure but in January i expect 11.10 was a point release.  That may be why it has been good for you.

Other people will correct me if i am wrong as i have been using the development release for a long time and that is always ahead of the standard releases so i am not sure when the point releases are actually released.

This is my current Ubuntu installation.

```
matthew@matthew-Aspire-7540 ~ % cat /etc/lsb-release 
DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=12.10
DISTRIB_CODENAME=quantal
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu quantal (development branch)"
matthew@matthew-Aspire-7540 ~
```

```
matthew@matthew-Aspire-7540 ~ % uname -a
Linux matthew-Aspire-7540 3.4.0-1-generic #3-Ubuntu SMP Wed May 2 17:56:12 UTC 2012 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
matthew@matthew-Aspire-7540 ~ % 
```

Kind regards

---

### Post by Erik1984 on 2012-05-26
Only LTS versions get real point releases. 11.10 was not a point release however the effect is quite similar if you install it later (say some months after release) and let the installer pull in all updates for you. With the point release (first point release for 12.04 will be 12.04.1) you get an image where the updates are included.

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-26
do not update do a fresh install

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2012-05-26
Hi

> **Euroman said:**
> Only LTS versions get real point releases. 11.10 was not a point release however the effect is quite similar if you install it later (say some months after release) and let the installer pull in all updates for you. With the point release (first point release for 12.04 will be 12.04.1) you get an image where the updates are included.

There you go :) Listen to Euroman here as that was a good post.
> do not update do a fresh install

That is also good advice. Keep your data on a separate partition, mount it and symlink. That's what i do.

kind regards

---

### Post by chenxinghao on 2013-04-24
Upgraded to Ubuntu 12.04 via the button in Update Manager. Everything works as it used to be.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2013-04-24
Hi

I am glad upgrading worked for you. 

Sometimes though, upgrading can be problematic.

To give you an example, yesterday i upgraded from Quantal to Raring by editing my sources.list file.

I am using the 3.9.rc8 kernel currently and i found that after i upgraded i had no wireless on this kernel.

My wireless card is a Broadcom Corporation BCM4313.

```
matthew-S206:/home/matthew/storage % lspci -nnk | grep -iA2 wire
03:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4313 802.11b/g/n Wireless LAN Controller [14e4:4727] (rev 01)
        Subsystem: Broadcom Corporation Device [14e4:0587]
        Kernel driver in use: wl
matthew-S206:/home/matthew/storage % 
```

This needs the wl driver to work correctly.

My wireless card was not working due to a bug in the bcmwl software and so DKMS was not building it.

To fix it, I had to download a patch from Launchpad, copy the patch into the bcmwl source code patch directory, edit the dkms.conf file to add the patch and then manually rebuild and install the driver using the DKMS commands.

This got my wireless back under the 3.9.rc8 kernel.

Admittedly, the 3.9.rcX kernels are not part of the default upgrade but it does go to show that upgrading is not always successful without some effort.

Kind regards

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2013-11-15
How do I mark this thread as SOLVED? The option is not in the Thread Tools button.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2013-11-18
Thread marked as SOLVED and closed.

---

