---
title: "10.04LTS Can't install libopenal-dev"
date: 2011-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by OBI_Ron on 2011-11-06
Hello Everyone,

I am trying to install libopenal-dev (for Alien Arena build).  I can see version 1:1.11.753-1 in Synaptic, but when I mark it for installation, I get the following error message:

libopenal-dev:
  Depends: libopenal1 (=1:1.11.753-1) but 1:1.12.854-2 is to be installed

I have searched [http://packages.ubuntu.com](http://packages.ubuntu.com), and only found the same packeges.  When I download them to try installinng, I get a dependency error.

Can anyone help with this?  How can I get libopenal to install?

Thanks in advance!!

---

### Post by OBI_Ron on 2011-11-11
Bump - Please and thank you!

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-11-11
Open up software sources ( software-properties-gtk

Under the Updates tab make sure that the 1st. two are enabled - security & updates
Then reload your sources or run 
sudo apt-get update

Should then show up as installable

Otherwise - here (but I'd do above irregardless
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid-updates/libopenal-dev](http://packages.ubuntu.com/lucid-updates/libopenal-dev)

---

### Post by carranty on 2011-11-11
I can download it fine (i'm also on 10.04).  Try opening a terminal and then 

*sudo apt-get update*

and then
[I]
sudo apt-get install libopenal-dev

[/I]If that doesn't work, paste the output of the latter command into the thread.

---

### Post by OBI_Ron on 2011-11-11
Thanks All - but I still have the same problem.  I got all the updates, and rebooted, and using synaptic manager, got the same results as mentioned in my first post.

When I tried using:

sudo apt-get install libopenal-dev

I got:

Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  libopenal-dev: Depends: libopenal1 (= 1:1.12.854-0ubuntu1~lucid1) but 1:1.12.854-2 is to be installed
E: Broken packages

Also see screenshots from synaptic and error messages

I also tried installing the debian package from packages.ubuntu, and got the error:
Error: Dependency is not satisfiable: libopenal1 (= 1:1.11.753-1)

It seems as though the debian package is an earlier version than the one that is already installed.

I used the link posted by mc4man, and when I tried to install that debian package I got the following:

Error: Dependency is not satisfiable: libopenal1 (= 1:1.12.854-0ubuntu1~lucid1)

---

