---
title: "11.04 is SLOW"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-04-29
So I have NO idea where to even start with this.

I have installed 11.04 from scratch on my laptop (not a netbook) 3 times now.  Trying the desktop 32-bit, alternate install 32-bit and alternate install 64-bit.

All of them are unusably slow.  It will take 20-45 seconds just to open nautilus or anything.  

I've tried it in the unity desktop, the ubuntu classic, and ubuntu classic without effects.

Same in them all.  sudo top (in a terminal) doesn't show anything eating my CPU or memory.  So I'm at a total loss of what could be the issue or even how to give information on how to fix it.

Any ideas?

I'm running a intel core 2 duo 2.8 Ghz with the nvidia geforce 240M processor.

The computer isn't old, so I can't believe for a second its underpowered.

---

### Post by dale11 on 2011-04-29
I've pretty much ran into the same problem. 10.10 used to be pretty quick, this 11.04 just isn't for me.

---

### Post by robertcoulson on 2011-04-29
You got that right...Will stick with 10.10 as long as I can.
Robert

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-04-29
Well, I guess I appreciate the support.  But neither of those answers were what I was hoping for.

:D

Anyway, hopefully someone will have some ideas for us, because its pretty painful

---

### Post by rcayea on 2011-04-29
I am in the same slow boat. Oddly enough, when I rebooted after updates, my computer was faster. I shut down for a while, comeback and all I get is a black screen. Hmm. I don't know. I reinstall. Still slow. I have tried all the deactivating various services at startup and anything else. Still slow.

---

### Post by hwttdz on 2011-04-29
Are you running "ubuntu (classic)" from the login window?

Also the minimal install is up now: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD)
That way you can get what you want.  Awesome.  (sidenote by minimal it actually gives you only what you need, not what you think you need.  You might think you need graphics. Pshaw, graphics just make things slower. Of course you can always install stuff like that later.).

---

### Post by rcayea on 2011-04-29
> **hwttdz said:**
> Are you running "ubuntu (classic)" from the login window?

I don't know about NertSkull, but if I logout to use another environment, such as ubuntu classic, I can't re-login to unity or gnome3.

---

### Post by hwttdz on 2011-04-29
Isn't that the point, 11.04 comes with gnome 2.32, which is pretty much the same desktop as 10.10.  So it's not really that big a change from 10.10 to 11.04.  You're complaining that gnome3 or unity are slow but you insist on using them?

Also, I've heard good things about xubuntu 11.04.

---

### Post by rcayea on 2011-04-29
> **hwttdz said:**
> Isn't that the point, 11.04 comes with gnome 2.32, which is pretty much the same desktop as 10.10.  So it's not really that big a change from 10.10 to 11.04.  You're complaining that gnome3 or unity are slow but you insist on using them?

Also, I've heard good things about xubuntu 11.04.

I didn't post here to be ridiculed. I thought I would post to let the masses know that I, like many of them, am having a tough go with unity. I tried to use them yes. I keep trying to use unity/gnome3 to find solutions to various problems, as opposed to giving up after one go. 

To me, it is a big change, when the default desktop env. doesn't work so well, especially when it is supposed to be a big change by the Ubuntu team. 

I appreciate anyone in the future who will post constructive feedback.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-04-29
I have tried all of the different desktop optionis (ubuntu, ubuntu classic, ubuntu classic without effects, etc)

NONE of them are any quicker.  I've rebooted multiple times, slowly (literally took 3 hours on a perfectly fast connection) applied all updates.  Even installed the nvidia graphics drivers (that took 2 hours to install after a 20 minute download).

Nothing is helping.

How can I diagnose it better to figure out what is wrong?

---

### Post by hiperbou on 2011-04-30
Same to me. I've updated from 10.10, and the system is very slow compared with the previous version... I've tried every desktop options.
I rather sticked with 10.10 :(

As a side note, the new scrollbars are very difficult to click, I'm sure that this slows my productivity.

---

### Post by tomski on 2011-04-30
i think it is just better to give xubuntu a go & if that dont play ball find another distro
well thats my plan anyway

---

### Post by GreatKeyHunter on 2011-04-30
I experienced the same issue with unity.  On the other hand, Kubuntu is really really fast.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-04-30
hmmm, well maybe I will give kubuntu or xubuntu a try and see what happens.

still, I'd love to at least figure out why its such a difference.  I can't see it being unity since I still have slowness in non-unity environments.

Its just amazing, even installing took FOREVER.  From the alternate install CD, it took 6.5 hours to install.  And I'm not exagerating in the least.  I started it at 11:30 one morning and it finished around 6:00.  

For now I guess I'll try other environments as well.

But if there is anything I can do for this I'd love any advice

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2011-04-30
I had the same issue so i upgraded the kernel and now its very fast............. :-)
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/%7Ekernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/")

```
cd Downloads
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.39-020639rc4-generic_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_i386.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-headers-2.6.39-020639rc4_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_all.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.39-rc4-natty/linux-image-2.6.39-020639rc4-generic_2.6.39-020639rc4.201104191410_i386.deb

sudo dpkg -i *.deb

```

then reboot using the kernel :-)
enjoy !!

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-05-01
Well, that gave me great hopes.

But unfortunately it didn't work.  I installed them, and it feels like it made it go slightly faster, but still no good.

For example, if I click on the menu/application button, it takes 8 seconds for the menu to pop-down for me to choose something.  

Any one have any other ideas?  Or should I just go back to 10.04 and forget it all?

---

### Post by gmckeown on 2011-05-01
Being a long-time Debian and Ubuntu user, I installed it out of curiosity and am not impressed. The unity interface blows. Speed is terrible. Debian Squeeze runs at least 3-4 times faster.

I have a Core i7  with 16GIG or ram running an a fast SSD, so there is no reason that 11 should be such a dog. 

I am a little disappointed. Back to my trusty Debian.

If you do install, always use a separate /home partition, then you can reinstall without messing things up.

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-01
And here I thought my Via C-7 netbook was at fault. Since you run a Core i7, 11.04 should be able to run at top speed. I'm inclined to increasingly think its a kernel problem. That would explain both the desktop freeze and the slow performance.

They should have it sorted out by the time Oneiric Ocelot is ready for the world.

---

### Post by Xero Xenith on 2011-05-01
> **NormanFLinux said:**
> And here I thought my Via C-7 netbook was at fault. Since you run a Core i7, 11.04 should be able to run at top speed. I'm inclined to increasingly think its a kernel problem. That would explain both the desktop freeze and the slow performance.

They should have it sorted out by the time Oneiric Ocelot is ready for the world.

Mine was running slowly - not stupidly slowly but slowly nonetheless - until I found out about this bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/761854](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/761854)

Basically, having icons of certain formats/sizes in the sidebar can cause all of Unity (and everything else graphical - e.g. scrolling on web browsers) to slow down massively.

I just wiped a few of mine, and now it's running oh-so-smoothly :) love it!

---

### Post by landon418 on 2011-05-01
Have you installed any Additional drivers?

---

### Post by MinLogin on 2011-05-01
Hi I have tested on
 my latop clean boot from livecd
 10:10 using 10% cpu and 22% 11:04
 My i7 clean boot from livecd
 10:10 uses 2-4% cpu and 11:04 15-19%
 The CPU will vary i7 computer. i7 network starts

:confused:

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-05-01
I have installed new drivers but it doesn't change it.

A fresh install is slow.

And then installing the nvidia drivers doesn't seem to change things at all.  So I don't think its a driver/video card slowness problem.

Especially since it took 5-6 hours just to install.

And it doesn't seem to be the icon issue for me.  I tried what was mentioned in the bug, and nothing changes.

But, I can't see it being that anyway because it runs slow with or without booting into the unity.

I mean even if I do ctrl+alt+F1 to a command prompt only its still just as slow to try and change directories and put in commands.

I was really hoping updating that kernel would fix it, but it didn't.  So I don't know where to go now.

---

### Post by Charlski on 2011-05-01
It takes me 5-10 minutes to install 11.04 on my crappy laptop ? Maybe you should re-download and re-install ?

Unity is slow for me too tho, I get to 100% CPU usage too easily.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-05-02
No it happens with any version of 11.04.

I've downloaded and installed (and md5 checksumed) the 32-bit alternate 11.04, the 64-bit alternate 11.04, the 32-bit desktop version and the 32-bit kubuntu alternate 11.04 version.

Each one takes between 4 and 6 hours to install.  And has serious issues with slowness once its installed.

That's why I think it would be kernel issues, but again my upgrading the kernel didn't seem to change things.

It sounds like I may just be back to 10.04 for now.

---

### Post by Leed on 2011-05-02
For ATI Users, I just removed the graphical drivers, Desktop was fast again after that

---

### Post by RHTopics on 2011-05-02
NertSkull,

Is your computer slow when running Ubuntu as a Live CD?

If it is faster as a Live CD, then it could be some kind of disk i/o problem.

Have you checked your log files like /var/log/syslog to see if you are getting error messages that may be related to the computer running slow?

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-05-03
It's just as slow with the Live CD (maybe a bit slower).

I'll check the logs again, but I don't remember seeing anything.  Although, my ability to understand the logs is not great, so I'll try and post stuff from them (when I'm near my computer later) to see if others can make more sense of it.

---

### Post by pshuttle on 2011-05-03
Long shot this one, but could it be something set in the BIOS that Ubuntu does not like? 

Pete

---

### Post by Jackyxxes on 2011-05-03
So does anyone think we'll be able to get the tried and true gnome build back then? 
From everything i've read unity is awful and doesn't work well at all.

---

### Post by alibro on 2011-05-03
Apart from issues running some Video and sound files I love Unity. I'm running it on a 5 year old AMD based PC and speed wise I have no problems. Installation takes 30 mins or so including updates. If it is running as slow as you say then you must have a compatibility issue, I suggest you stick to 10.10 for a few months and try again.
I have been using Ubuntu off and on for 5 years now, I'm in my mid forty's and I found the change to Unity surprisingly easy. I don't think it is perfect and I would like to be able to tweak it to suit myself but I do think it is an improvement and well worth trying.

---

### Post by Mashepherd on 2011-05-03
When i re-found my sister REALLY old laptop, i put ubuntu 8.04 on it which ran pretty rubbishly, got sick of that and put lubuntu on it, it now runs like a dream. Lubuntu doesnt run a gnome environment but an LXDE one which seems to run alot faster, well worth a try if you can stand minamalistic computing

---

### Post by gascon alex on 2011-05-03
11.04 takes an age to boot up compared to 10.10, almost as long as the vista box next door. I don't think the unity desktop is good as it takes me longer to do anything - especially waiting for the damn app bar to reappear - back to 10.04 as that's what I've got a disk for, and faster boot up again. Wish had a 10.10 disk but couldn't download as have internet speed issues.

11.04 should still be in beta, and not just for the desktop.

---

### Post by notoriousdbp on 2011-05-03
Mine seems to be running OK.  The slow installation may have been due to the download of updates during the install procedure.  Over the weekend the servers were maxed out due to lots of people upgrading from 10.10 - they seem to be OK now.

If you're rolling back you're best bet will be to go with 10.04 as that's a long term release version and won't prompt for an upgrade until April 2012.

---

### Post by lesserkeys on 2011-05-04
Same problem I myself have been looking to resolve this issue... If you download the cpu scaling app for unity u have to google it you can make it run a little more responsive. Its the way ubuntu 11.04 is using the cpu...its not efficient they need to fix it assap... Also the empathy can't block users or users you have already blocked.

---

### Post by pnhearer on 2011-05-04
My install of 11.04 load time is comparable to Windows 7 load time. That's good right? Nope...I don't think so either. The Kernel update did give it a little kick in the pants though.
Anyone else notice the poor responsiveness of the..uh..auto-hiding quick launch bar? Maybe this is just personal annoyance but the quick launch bar isn't usable until I bury my mouse into the very corner of my screen. I would expect that centering it on the Ubuntu logo should be sufficient.

Even with the speed complaint, boy this thing is pretty though.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-05-05
Well, at this point I've installed, wiped and reinstalled so many times I've basically given up.

So I've switched to trying linux mint 10 for the first time.  And I'm pretty happy with it.

At least for my laptop anyway.  My two desktops I'm still running 10.04 and 10.10.  After the experience with my laptop though I doubt I'll be upgrading my dekstop to 11.04 anytime soon.

---

### Post by anlag on 2011-05-05
Just gone to 11.04 as well. Had the dist-upgrade freeze on me forcing a clean install, have since done all updates and installed the latest NVIDIA drivers. Running Unity so far as I figure I'm not above trying new stuff, but first impression is it's significantly slower than 10.10/GNOME. Hoping this gets ironed out with updates soon, or I will have to consider my alternatives as well.

---

### Post by haiiya on 2011-05-07
I experience the same as you... its very very slow, but i didnt have any problems installing it. It took at most 10minutes to install but software manager takes 10minutes before it even start downloading a program and the internet takes 10seconds just to start up

---

### Post by anlag on 2011-05-07
I didn't have any problems with the installation, and most things worked fine, except it was noticeably slower than 10.10. Now, I installed the 2.6.39-0-generic kernel and that was a distinct improvement for me. It still seems to me that I can have significantly less stuff running before my system starts to slow down than I could on 10.10, but perhaps this is normal, and the newer version with Unity simply demands more of the hardware. I find this somewhat regrettable, but I suppose it's natural. Might look at Xubuntu if I can find the energy for it...

---

### Post by pnhearer on 2011-05-08
... Autohide... launch bar annoying. Having to re-re-re-research for applications is getting on my nerves. I have to stick everything on the quick launch bar...but I keep telling myself it is pretty...

---

### Post by SedukiDude on 2011-05-08
I'm also having issues with 11.04 with slowness, flash, and sound to my headset. I am running Vista inside Virtual Box as a guest so I can use Rosetta Stone and the update to 11.04 is playing havoc on Rosetta Stone. I am going to continue to use 11.04 until I get it running smoothly. Rather than give up on Natty I will ride out the quirks and look for "constructive feedback" in this forum. If it takes 6 months until the next release...so be it. I believe we are here to help one another work these issues out...that is what Ubuntu is about...community. So, please provide sincere support, not criticism, and try not to get too frustrated in the process. It will work out.

---

### Post by hatewindows on 2011-05-08
VERY SLOW CASED CLOSED!  10.10 IS FASTER ALL AROUND!!  Way to many Bells and whistles--We are heading towards windows ubuntu is following---UBUNTU Should keep it fast and simple--The Bells and whistles do one thing--SLOW YOU DOWN!

---

### Post by pnhearer on 2011-05-09
Ok, I can't take it. Anyone know where the config file to modify the threshold for the quick launch bar is? It should pop up when the curser is in the middle of the ubuntu icon, not require me to bury my mounse in the corner. v.v

---

### Post by TudX on 2011-05-09
I tried to install Kubuntu, and it ran terribly slow (my computer overheated on installation) and than Xubuntu, with a slightly better result. None of them worked even satisfactorily. So, I think that changing the GUI won't help. (AMD Athlon @2,3GHz; 1,65GB DDR400; ATI Radeon 9200)

---

### Post by jockopablo on 2011-05-09
It's pretty slow on my Dell mini 10v netbook, too.  Not as slow as the OP describes, but undoubtedly the slowest distro I've tried on my mini.  It also heats up my mini like crazy.

The upside is that all of my hardware works with it, which is a first for any Ubuntu-based distro I've tried, which makes the poor performance so disappointing.  

I don't think I'm going to keep it.  It just seems too bloated and slow for a good netbook distro.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-05-10
Yeah I don't think its the UI for me.  Its something with the base system.  Probably the kernel.  Maybe in a couple of months I'll check again, but for now I just couldn't handle using it.

---

### Post by Ghost|BTFH on 2011-05-10
I know I'm late to this dance, but I thought I'd give it a whirl and point out the elephant in the living room that nobody seems to be discussing.

You've tried ALTERNATIVE CDS.  You may have tried the standard installs, I can't quite tell with all the comments that have flown by but...Alternative CDs are set up for "worst case scenarios" and can sometimes cause their own bad scenarios, like...poor performance.

Now, one thing I'd suggest is to install 11.04 LiveCD (standard - XXbit depending on your hardware) if you wish to keep up to date, and install LXDE for your desktop - WOW...talk about fast and it's gnome compatible, which is a big plus.  I'm not a big fan of "Windows-like" desktops but LXDE is really quite nice and very fast.

Cheers,
Ghost|BTFH

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-05-12
Sorry maybe I glossed over that, but post 24 I mentioned that I have tried the 32-bit desktop (liveCD) version.  And since then I've tried the main download live CD version for 32 and 64 bit ubuntu and kubuntu.

All give me the same problem of slowness.  Even booting to a liveCD is just as slow (maybe a hair faster).

But frankly, even if those did work it wouldn't be ideal.  I do full disk encryption on my computers and in the end I would need the alternate install CD to do that.

(note, I have tried all of this without using full disk encryption, so its not the encryption that is causing the problems).

So I kind of doubt its an alternate CD problem, but more something in the kernel is not playing friendly with my computer.  Which is what I don't fully understand because previous 10.04 stuff worked fine, and my computer is only 18 months old.

---

### Post by globalmac on 2011-05-12
I've been annoyed with the slow speed of unity as well for the past couple of weeks. Tried one of the above suggestions to upgrade the kernel which rendered my install unbootable. inserted liveCD, chose upgrade from 11.04 to 11.04 and after it re-installed it was using the proprietary ATI drivers that it would not let me use upon first upgrading because it said unity would not work with them. Now the speed is every bit as fast as 10.10. Hope that helps someone.

---

### Post by anlag on 2011-05-14
> **anlag said:**
> I didn't have any problems with the installation, and most things worked fine, except it was noticeably slower than 10.10. Now, I installed the 2.6.39-0-generic kernel and that was a distinct improvement for me. It still seems to me that I can have significantly less stuff running before my system starts to slow down than I could on 10.10, but perhaps this is normal, and the newer version with Unity simply demands more of the hardware. I find this somewhat regrettable, but I suppose it's natural. Might look at Xubuntu if I can find the energy for it...

Just to say in my case the main problem appears to have been when I upgraded to 11.04 I also opted for 64-bit, somewhat on a whim, to see how well that works out. I had somehow missed the fact that 64-bit requires more memory to work well, so that seems to have been why my 2 GB RAM T61 Thinkpad struggled a bit. Have now reinstalled with the 32-bit version and it's working satisfactorily with Unity "3D" and the standard kernel.

---

### Post by linuxuser12345 on 2011-05-14
Are you using ATi or AMD graphics?

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-05-14
A general suggestion to anyone finding 11.04 abnormally slow - have you looked in your log files to see if there are any unusually repetitive errors?

For example, in:

/var/log/syslog
/var/log/dmesg
~/.xsession-errors

---

### Post by XMAG on 2011-05-25
[B][SIZE="2"]I'm pretty convinced this is a Hardware problem.
 
My laptop is also Core2Duo 2.8 (T9600) and NVIDIA GT 240M and I have the same problems as NertSkull[/SIZE].[/B]

Many people in this thread are complaining of 11.04 slowness compared to 10.10 or other ubutnu releases but the problem I am experiencing (And NertSkull too if I'm not mistaken) is not that it is a bit slower or even 2 times slower, our problem is much more specific.

For me IT IS AMAZINGLY SLOW, like more than 100 times slower than older Ubuntu releases and it makes the computer by all means COMPLETELY UNUSABLE. Not just slow.

I tried to install from the 32bit Live-USB (after checksum matching) and I gave up after I realized it took 10 minutes to shift from one screen to another and after I left it for more than 6 hours installing and it wouldn't finish. From the beginning the mouse pointer was laggy and unresponsive. Not only the installation process but the whole system was amazingly slow.

Then I moved from the USB drive to a Live-CD with no change, I still couldn't install in a reasonable amount of time or use the OS. This LiveCD worked perfectly in a friends laptop (Core i5 integrated graphics) as did the LiveUSB.

Then I moved to the alternate insall CD (Text-mode installation) and install was still ridiculously slow. I gave up after 3 hours of no success.

Then I moved to Fedora 15 from its LiveUSB, thinking maybe this version of Ubuntu had some kind of incompatibility with my laptop. To my surprise I had the same problems in Fedora 15, the system was slow and unresponsive and I didn't even try to install it as, like in Ubuntu 11.04 LiveCD CD, it took it around 2 minutes to simply open a terminal window from a double click. Fedora LiveUSB also worked perfectly in my friends laptop.

[B]I'm guessing this has something to do with hardware incompatibility with either the Linux Kernel 2.6.38 or the graphics driver. Any ideas?????

NertSkull please confirm me if you have the same kind of problem... Is your laptop a ASUS N51 too?[/B]

---

### Post by ziulfer on 2011-05-26
I'm having the same problem. even for save a very small txt file.
My computer is Asus K42D(AMD/ATI). Any help/sugestion will very appreciated.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-05-28
> **XMAG said:**
> [B][SIZE="2"]I'm pretty convinced this is a Hardware problem.
 
My laptop is also Core2Duo 2.8 (T9600) and NVIDIA GT 240M and I have the same problems as NertSkull[/SIZE].[/B]

Many people in this thread are complaining of 11.04 slowness compared to 10.10 or other ubutnu releases but the problem I am experiencing (And NertSkull too if I'm not mistaken) is not that it is a bit slower or even 2 times slower, our problem is much more specific.

For me IT IS AMAZINGLY SLOW, like more than 100 times slower than older Ubuntu releases and it makes the computer by all means COMPLETELY UNUSABLE. Not just slow.

I tried to install from the 32bit Live-USB (after checksum matching) and I gave up after I realized it took 10 minutes to shift from one screen to another and after I left it for more than 6 hours installing and it wouldn't finish. From the beginning the mouse pointer was laggy and unresponsive. Not only the installation process but the whole system was amazingly slow.

Then I moved from the USB drive to a Live-CD with no change, I still couldn't install in a reasonable amount of time or use the OS. This LiveCD worked perfectly in a friends laptop (Core i5 integrated graphics) as did the LiveUSB.

Then I moved to the alternate insall CD (Text-mode installation) and install was still ridiculously slow. I gave up after 3 hours of no success.

Then I moved to Fedora 15 from its LiveUSB, thinking maybe this version of Ubuntu had some kind of incompatibility with my laptop. To my surprise I had the same problems in Fedora 15, the system was slow and unresponsive and I didn't even try to install it as, like in Ubuntu 11.04 LiveCD CD, it took it around 2 minutes to simply open a terminal window from a double click. Fedora LiveUSB also worked perfectly in my friends laptop.

[B]I'm guessing this has something to do with hardware incompatibility with either the Linux Kernel 2.6.38 or the graphics driver. Any ideas?????

NertSkull please confirm me if you have the same kind of problem... Is your laptop a ASUS N51 too?[/B]

Yup, that's my laptop as well.  And I would agree (although not like I know enough to know for sure) that it seems to be a hardware issue with 11.04

I know when I first bought the computer there wasn't a graphics driver ready for the 240M.  But that finally came out.  Maybe since it was a newer card it is going to have issues with 11.04.

But the fact that install is slow also, would lead me to suspect something other than the graphics card.

But I have no real evidence to support that concept.

---

### Post by Matt__ on 2011-05-28
Yes 11.04 is not only slower on every machine I've tried except my Toshiba laptop, but in my opinion a poor solution for notebooks and worse for desktops..Unity just isnt right in how it functions or its design layout as far as im concerend. 
Personally I never liked UNR and Unity even less..though im still trying it, as I think there are better ways to maximise screen real estate on netbooks. The fixed panel at the top is a waste, and the huge dock to the left that dosnt work properly?? why?
I will stay with my no panels and very modified cairo docks tyvm.

Sorry I can't offer a solution to you guys with the real problem of an unuseable OS, like you say there must be an issue with hardware and kernel 2.6.38.

> **jockopablo said:**
> 

The upside is that all of my hardware works with it, which is a first  for any Ubuntu-based distro I've tried, which makes the poor performance  so disappointing.  


That aside the Dell mini 10v has worked perfectly since Ubuntu 8.04, a slightly modified version of which was shipped with it by Dell (they added recovery and a minimaly different  version of UNR).

---

### Post by phs2004 on 2011-05-28
Same on my pc takes a few seconds to open program.

core 2 dual 3ghz and ati 5770 card.

It must be the new gnome desktop that is slow.

---

### Post by MrSSJ_Andrew on 2011-05-30
I've experienced the same thing with the slowness. My ram and cpu's shoot up close to around 100% before they come back down. Sometimes they don't even come back down at all and i have to do a hard reset. When i boot my laptop up it works fine for a little while but then begins to start the with the slowness and crashing. This really needs to be fixed.

---

### Post by roton on 2011-05-30
Just wanted to say that I'm experiencing this slowness too. I've installed the graphics drivers etc. and have things set almost exactly like the previous versions. However things are so laggy compared to the smooth and slick Ubuntu I'm used to.

---

### Post by pd1108 on 2011-05-30
Have you by any chance connected some device thru the USB.  I had a similar problem when I connected a Logitec Video camera.  Try to remove one device after another on at a time to isolate what is slowing it down.  On the face of it, your config has no reason for this response.  11.04 on my old Core-Duo processor is lightning fast.  yours is a much later stuff.  finally if everything else fails, check is the hard disc has bad sectors developed inadvertently and Ubuntu is trying to read of these sectors

---

### Post by j_r0dd on 2011-05-31
i registered just to confirm the ridiculous slowness for me as well. the install was done in 20 minutes so that was not an issue for me. everything i click takes a more than a few seconds to open. even for just the right click menu to pop up takes sometimes 15-20 seconds. this is completely unusable. ubuntu classic made zero difference for me either which really makes me believe this a kernel issue. i have a brand new lenovo laptop with a 2nd gen i7, 8gb of ram, a corsair sata 6.0gb/s ssd & ati graphics. the pc boots up faster than a folder will open for me NO LIE! it is not my pc. i dunno what happened with 11.04, but i really think it is completely unusable. i went back to 10.10 and will probably just go back 10.04.2 because it was rock solid for me. 10.10 has some wifi issues for me.

---

### Post by -dean- on 2011-06-03
I had redundant 10.10 installations of ubuntu and updated the backup to 11.04.  Bad mistake, I thought.  As some others have complained, 11.04 was brutally slow.  I made some file changes suggested by others and removed a bunch of applications from the launcher which maybe improved things a little.  On boot up I was going to the console and had to "startx" to get a graphical interface.  

It turned out that my problem was a usb drive.  After removing the usb from the computer and rebooting, 11.04 ran like a charm.  I'm not sure I like the new interface but I have the luxury of getting used to it while continuing to use 10.10.

Hope this helps somebody out there

---

### Post by calhau0 on 2011-06-07
make ubuntu 11.04 fast again 

>   

  Install CompizConfig Settings Manager from either the Software Center, or Synaptic.
    Click on the Composite tab, and un-check Detect refresh rate.
    Back to main menu.
    Click on the OpenGL tab.
    Uncheck Sync to Vblank.


source : [http://www.jondev.net/articles/Ubuntu_11.04_choppy_or_slow](http://www.jondev.net/articles/Ubuntu_11.04_choppy_or_slow)

it worked for me :)

---

### Post by ragtag on 2011-06-08
I had a serious slowdown with Nautilus, in both Unity and classic, and tried many of the things suggested here, without any luck. Then I tried logging in as a different user, and everything ran smooth. After some trial and error, it seems that removing ~/.config (or back it up somewhere else), fixed the problem. It also removed lots of settings, but at least now Nautilus was behaving normally. I haven't yet tracked down which file within .config/ is actually causing the slowdown.

---

### Post by thezood on 2011-06-15
I just wanted to give my five pesetas on this one. I also had problems with Ubuntu being incredibly slow, sometimes mouse-laggingly so. For me it wasn't a hardware problem (I use a crappy old AMD Sempron Dualcore with ATI HD3200 graphics but it has worked flawless in previous Ubuntu versions). There was also problems playing video and some configuration problems I can't remember. 11.04 does **not** just work. ;)

First of all, fglrx doesn't really work with my graphics card anymore. It hasn't during 11.04 beta and it still doesn't. I get everything from overheating to graphics corruption to kernel panic. So in with the open source drivers. Also, forget Unity. I don't know what they were thinking but the thinking was not good. Out with Unity, in with good ol' panels and wait for Gnome Shell to be completed because THAT will be awesome. Finally I installed kernel version 3.0 which improved performance even more. It's still not as fast as 10.04 (because for me it's been downhill since then) but at least it's workable.

Now I'm going to try Lubuntu, hopefully it'll improve things even more. 

Not sure if my "insights" will be useful for you. Anyway, best of luck!

EDIT: one more thing, I also installed installed some nice, fresh X crack from Edgers: [https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers) - not sure it's really recommended but I've always had good results with these.

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2011-06-15
So, if I skimmed this thread correctly, we have some definite problems.

One, there is a bug in the Unity interface where it gets heartburn from certain icons.

Two, USB device interactions.  I've had that problem with Windows many times.  Hard to disconnect some 'USB' devices on a laptop, though (read: camera, touchpad, fingerprint scanner).

Three, graphics drivers.

Also, I made the mistake of enabling Ubuntu One.  Its periodic updating through a wireless interface slowed my laptop to a standstill.

---

### Post by SneakyBooBoo on 2011-06-16
Can you still use Compiz with all the effects? I might have to do this seeing as the Kernel didn't install for me.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-16
> **SneakyBooBoo said:**
> Can you still use Compiz with all the effects? I might have to do this seeing as the Kernel didn't install for me.Hi, what do you mean the kernel did not install? what did it not install?

---

### Post by bmbaker on 2011-06-16
have you tried using another kernel?
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)
i have found that the rc2 or 3 kernel wks really great :-)

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2011-06-16
> **SneakyBooBoo said:**
> Can you still use Compiz with all the effects? I might have to do this seeing as the Kernel didn't install for me.

Install CCSM and Compiz-extras and you can use most of the effects:

I used Desktop Cube, Rotate Cube, 3D Windows, Wallpapers.  Unity requires certain tools and will complain about you turning off one or two of its defaults, but in the case of Desktop Cube, it has the required tools also, so Unity will live with it, though there may be issues with turning the corner, especially to the left (if that's where you leave Unity).

Also, leaving CCSM usually corrupts the top bar, so you will want to restart to recover that.

Of course, these changes may be contributors to the overall slowness problem.

---

### Post by SneakyBooBoo on 2011-06-16
I got an error message when i tried installing the kernel and then a warning about a system failure and so on. Silly me, I did a reboot and got stuck at a black screen so I booted up with the old kernel to remove it.

I'm not running Unity by the way. I've been logging into classic gnome but it's still pretty sluggish. I'll try the other kernel mentioned and post the error report should one come up.

Thanks guys

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-16
> **SneakyBooBoo said:**
> I got an error message when i tried installing the kernel and then a warning about a system failure and so on. Silly me, I did a reboot and got stuck at a black screen so I booted up with the old kernel to remove it.

I'm not running Unity by the way. I've been logging into classic gnome but it's still pretty sluggish. I'll try the other kernel mentioned and post the error report should one come up.

Thanks guys
Hi, if you are using compiz in ubuntu classic it is mostly because of the new version of compiz, I am going to give you a link how to fix your problem.
[http://www.webupd8.org/2011/05/how-to-downgrade-to-compiz-086-in.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/05/how-to-downgrade-to-compiz-086-in.html)

---

### Post by terrykiwi83 on 2011-06-16
has anybody suggested installing and activating Prelinking? It made a huge difference to my performance.

Go to software center and search for **prelink** and Install.

Then to activate go to

```

gksu gedit /etc/default/prelink

```

and change the line from PRELINKING=unknown to PRELINKING=yes

Save and exit

Now run a prelinking scan by (typing in terminal)

```

sudo prelink -a

```

this will take some time usually 5-10 minutes, you will see lots of error output in the terminal but don't worry about it. Once finished enjoy a huge increase in speed.

Let me know how you get on, I have used this on 10.10, 11.04 and it worked great on both.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2011-06-16
I appreciate all these tips, unfortunately none of them seem to work for me.

I suspect its the same for some of the others in this thread also.

There seems to kind of be two different types of slow being talked about in the thread.

1) slowness that occurs with running the OS after install.  Probably due to graphics, or something more software related (maybe).

2) slowness that occurs during install, and seems to have something to do with the kernel and hardware incompatibilities.  I tried installing again the other day and timed it, it took my computer 7 hour and 38 minutes to go through the install process. And my computer is still pretty good specs.

Hopefully the tips help some, but I'm still not getting much for this second type of problem on my end.  I'm just hoping 11.10 will take care of things, and I'll just skip 11.04.  

Linux Mint is keeping me running on my laptop for now though.  Thankfully my primary computer is my desktop running 10.10

---

### Post by alterpinguin on 2011-06-17
> **NertSkull said:**
> I appreciate all these tips, unfortunately none of them seem to work for me.

I suspect its the same for some of the others in this thread also.

There seems to kind of be two different types of slow being talked about in the thread.

1) slowness that occurs with running the OS after install.  Probably due to graphics, or something more software related (maybe).

2) slowness that occurs during install, and seems to have something to do with the kernel and hardware incompatibilities.  I tried installing again the other day and timed it, it took my computer 7 hour and 38 minutes to go through the install process. And my computer is still pretty good specs.

Hopefully the tips help some, but I'm still not getting much for this second type of problem on my end.  I'm just hoping 11.10 will take care of things, and I'll just skip 11.04.  

Linux Mint is keeping me running on my laptop for now though.  Thankfully my primary computer is my desktop running 10.10

I can confirm that 11.04 with unity is definitly "slow" - 
special on older hardware the performace loss is significant and can be proved like this:
1. use a performance monitor like "top", which runs in every terminal.
To start "top" start a terminal (gnome-terminal or xterm) and start it
by entering: top
To change the refresh-rate press "s" and then (when the prompt appears) press "1" to change the refersh-rate to 1 second instead of the default of 3 seconds. Next press "P"  (thats is Shift-p) to change the sort order for the time-consuming processes.

2. watch the performance after login in unity:
a older amd-2000-cpu shows a default cpu-usage of 15%-20%
without any user interaction.

reboot and login with desktop-choice "classical without animations" and
again fire up a terminal and start top
shows only a cpu-usage of 1%-4% cpu-usage.

reboot again and dont login at the login-screen,
instead switch to a textual console with Ctrl-Alt-1 ..
or to the second console Ctrl-Alt-2
and there login.
Then start the top
and the cpu-usage is a bit lower than in the "classical desktop", but
the difference is not so big like the 5x to 10x cpu-usage of unity.

For laptops running on battery this might be a high-power-consumption and reduce the on-batter-runtime considerable.

---

### Post by Leshrac on 2011-09-02
> **alterpinguin said:**
> I can confirm that 11.04 with unity is definitly "slow" - 
special on older hardware the performace loss is significant and can be proved like this:
Please stop hijacking the thread with this kind of comment, he has already stated more than once that the problem has nothing to do with unity (there's no way unity would make the installation process last 6 hours, it is not even loaded during installation) and yet more than half of the answers have to do with disabling.

I also have an asus laptop afflicted by a similar problem, both 10.04 and 10.10 work flawlessly but 11.04 is _really_ slow not slow in the way most people in this thread is suggesting, slow to the point where nautilus can take up to 5 minutes to load and something as trivial as closing a window takes over two minutes.

At first I thought it was a bad update, so I did a clean install.
When that did not work I thought it might be the video driver.
Failing that, I thought it might be unity, so I disabled it and went into gnome. (the problem persists even if you log into a terminal session, trivial commands will take ages to execute even in text mode)
When that failed I thought it might have something to do with the new kernel in 11.04, so I installed 11.10 beta1 sporting the 3.0 kernel and the problem persists.

At this point this is pure speculation because I don't have the time or the skill to figure this out, but I think the problem might lie in the version 38 kernel. Something might be different in that release that makes it work _ridiculously_ bad in our hardware (only one of my laptops is affected, it's got an Intel Core 2 Duo T9400 clocked at 2.53GHz just in case it matters).

The only thing I can add is that using the gnome cpu monitor applet in 11.04 revealed the cpu was always at the lowest setting (800MHz) and it was impossible to raise it (at least by using the applet). However, cpu clock doesn't explain the slowdown, when limiting the cpu at 800MHz in 10.04 or 10.10 the system is still ~50 times faster than 11.04.

I was unable to run the same test in 11.10 beta because the applet is not available for gnome3.

I hope this helps someone, if anyone manages to fix this problem, please post in this thread or e-mail me, I'll be a happy man.

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2011-09-10
> **anlag said:**
> Just to say in my case the main problem appears to have been when I upgraded to 11.04 I also opted for 64-bit, somewhat on a whim, to see how well that works out. I had somehow missed the fact that 64-bit requires more memory to work well, so that seems to have been why my 2 GB RAM T61 Thinkpad struggled a bit. Have now reinstalled with the 32-bit version and it's working satisfactorily with Unity "3D" and the standard kernel.

Am running 32bit and its still slow. Seems like Ubuntu is just getting worse. Too much fiddling around with surface looks & presentation for corporate types and not enough actual meat on the bone.

---

### Post by amarendra on 2011-09-18
I have not checked with different measurement and benchmarking people talk of. 
Just one simple observation that after (maybe since 10.10) Ubuntu is painfully slow and I do not run a nuclear reactor on my Dell Vostro laptop. How I know Ubuntu is slow? Well, my installation is normal(simple). With few apps like VLC, Tomboy, Dropbox, Firefox(yeah I know it's slow but even Chrome is slow so I do not actually have an option) and few other small app that is loaded at the same.

Catch is I am triple booting my laptop. Ubuntu 11.04, Win 7 and Win XP. And the other OSs - 7 and XP are amazingly and disturbingly smooth. Even when I play my games on them (that is the reason I kept those along with Ubuntu and now I figure it was a wise decision).

Ubuntu is becoming a bloat now. I just want to uproot Ubuntu One from my system. Every single file removed. It's the buggiest piece of **** written I have come across recently. Unity was such pain to use I switched back to classic and though it's easy no improvement is system speed.

I use Dcoky and I have this CPU Monitor docklet and on a typical day it's just couple of time when it's green. Red most of the time or at least yellow or light red. Damn it, what frustrates me is that I have started t log in to Windows even to do things other than play PC games and this I have to for the first time in like 4-5 years. 

No, I am not a Linux fanboy. I am a Linux user with a penchant for freedom and things that are free (not the free beer). I have resisted long but I guess it's time to get a Mac and maybe a simple and cleaner and yes rolling-release distro like ArchLinux.

---

### Post by Krishna Murthy on 2011-09-18
To me Ubuntu as an Operating System is more important. Not the desktop.

I had the same problems months ago and did all I could. Got fed up and installed Zorin OS which is based on 11.04 with a W7 like desktop. Now I am very Happy.

---

### Post by smartgenes on 2012-07-18
The instructions here increased speed for me significantly:

[http://www.jondev.net/articles/Ubuntu_11.04_choppy_or_slow](http://www.jondev.net/articles/Ubuntu_11.04_choppy_or_slow)

related to Compizconfig. I got some fail messages when did ccsm.. don't know if that matters, but desktop is working faster regardless.

---

### Post by NertSkull on 2012-12-10
So, since I started this thread, I figure I should post what I know since its kind of ballooned into many issues.

I have found the source of my slowness.  There just appears to be no fix yet.

My problem, is my laptop.  I have the Asus N51v and there is some bug in the kernel that causes its slowness.  Here is the bug report for the issue.  [https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=42725](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=42725)

Apparently it affects all linux distros as its a kernel bug.  Something to do with thermal trip points, I don't fully understand.

But, if I add thermal.off=1 to my kernel, all my slowness goes away and the laptop is great.  But, if you read through that bug report, that is suggested to maybe not be a great idea.  But it does make it snappy.

So, just in case any of you other people out there have the N51v, you should watch that bug report.  I'm not sure it will ever get fixed, but that's the problem for me.

---

