---
title: "Gd5436"
date: 2009-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eddu on 2009-05-19
Hi, 
    I am totally new to ubuntu or any unix type operating system for that matter being always and exclusively exposed to windows. I have decided to take a bold step and start learning linux on my own. However this seems to be not that easy. 

I have installed ubuntu 9.04 and my cirrus logic pci vga only gives me one possible resolution that of 640x480. Also in the xorg.conf file there are no drivers installed for my display device. 

I know that this video card is quite old not to say obsolete but since I am new to this type of operating system I wanted to get acquainted to it before having it as my main os on my main desktop. This is why I built a P3 system with the stuff I had running around of which this cirrus logic GD5436 [Alpine] pci vga.

Any help  would be greatly appreciated. 

Thanks and Regards,
Edward

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2009-05-19
The xorg.conf won't have anything significant, as it's no longer handled that way by default (but you can put overrides in for your special hardware needs).
If the screen settings found via System preferences don't help, then you need to use the dpkg-reconfigure in a terminal window to get it to configure better for your hardware. I don't recall the precise xorg parameter to invoke for this - but it has been quoted a few times in these fora.

Later: just found this, with a search:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by eddu on 2009-05-19
Hi derek thanks for a quick reply. 

I had already come across that piece of code on the net and tried it out but it does not offer me any resolution or video card options just some keyboard options as regards language and layout and stuff. 

Don't know maybe it's my bad and I am doing something wrong.

Anyway thanks for your help m8.

Regards,
Edward

---

