---
title: "10.10 vs 11.10"
date: 2011-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hatewindows on 2011-11-02
Hello all--My opinion is The new 11.10 Ubuntu ISNT as quick and snappy as the older version such as 10.10.. I run a Fast Machine here--and i notice that 11.10 with all the bells and whistles things simply are SLOWER! Boot time and Shut down times ARE NOT AS FAST in 11.10 as they were in 10.10.. I have 10.10 in a Slower Machine here an it flys--Shuts down almost instant boots in seconds.. 11.10 on my Quad core IS NOT AS FAST--clean install--and its not as fast.. My wife noticed and asked me what happened to Ubuntu--It used to be FAST! Personally lots of Bells and Whistles are being added--and we are heading down the road the same way windows played the game--Tons of add ons all kinds are crap bogging things down. Maybe i'm wrong-But we clearly see that 11.10 fresh install is SLOWER then 10.10 Fresh install...  Have a great night all..

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2011-11-02
Think you should use the system that works best on your computer:popcorn:

---

### Post by hatewindows on 2011-11-03
I didnt know i could do that? I thought the older ver of Ubuntu 10.10 were not supported--I figuried something would expire on it.. Please dont get me wrong--I been using Ubuntu for 6 or 7 years from day 1--11.10 is nice love the new look--everything about it is nice--However its not as snappy or quick as the older 10.04 10.10 ver.. I understand why--many more Bells and whistles its only to be expected.. Thanks for the reply!! Have a wonderful eve.. Mark

---

### Post by bryncoles on 2011-11-03
Hi HateWindows.  

I believe each release of Ubuntu has at least 1 and a half years of usage in it, and 10:10 is supported until april 2012.  So you can enjoy it for another what, 6 months if you like.  

Of, perhaps you could be tempted to try one of the alternative 'buntu's?  Afterall, why not shop around...?

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-11-03
10.10 was my favorite Gnome 2 release of the three I had used , but have not noticed any slowdown in 11.04 or 11.10 . I used unity and E17 on 11.04 and now use Unity and the Gnome shell on 11.10 . A minimal installation my be worth looking into and you can add what you like from there .

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-11-03
If you like 10.10, you'll probably like Xubuntu or Lubuntu with 11.10. Both are pretty fast and easy to use.

---

### Post by alco75 on 2011-11-03
Xubuntu Oneiric is *blindingly* fast compared to Ubuntu Natty. :o

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-11-03
You can consult this to find the EOL for Ubuntu releases.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

Really the only reason to upgrade before the EOL is to have the latest software available. If everything is working fine in your 10.10 and your happy with it, hold off until April when 12.04 LTS comes out and your 10.10 reaches EOL.

---

### Post by hatewindows on 2011-11-03
Thanks everyone for the great info.. I have a question--What happens to say 10.10 Ubuntu when it expires? Can you boot to it?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-11-04
It doesn't actually "expire" -- as in, no longer works.  It just runs out of support -- as in can't get updates for it anymore.

Some will say the major risk of running old, unsupported versions is their exposure to malware -- but that presumes that Linux distros have serious exposure to malware in the first place, which they don't.

---

### Post by Jouke74 on 2011-11-04
I am in the same boat as you. I actually made my own Ubuntu distro, Gnome as light as possible using Ubuntu 10.10. I subsequently tried 11.04 and 11.10 and they weren't as snappy on my netbook and some Scientific software did not run as it was requiring older libraries. In the end I decided to keep 10.10 and wait until I need to do something that I cannot without upgrading. Will see how long it lasts. 

The only concern is that at certain moment the 10.10 repositories will go offline, I assume April 2012. Therefore I downloaded all packages using debmirror and stored (35 GB) on an external disc USB disc. With some commands you can add this disk as a repository, so even in > april 2012 you are still able to install most of the software. 

I think that in the end it is therefore possible to run 10.10 until you buy a new laptop or Ubuntu or any other distro produces something more snappy again.

---

