---
title: "11.04 upgrade and fresh install cannot connect to anything previous versions can."
date: 2011-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by loktar00 on 2011-07-17
I upgraded my Ubuntu server install to 11.04 and could not connect to anything outside of it. Its a weird issue because if I run a ping against it as its booting up for about 20 seconds or so I get responses, then it says unreachable. (This is a wired connection by the way). If i login fast enough on the server itself I can ping google for instance and get a response, then it just stops and says host unreachable from that point on.

I then decided to setup a fresh install on the system (virtual server) and I get the same issue. All throughout the install it connected fine, just up until it fully restarts. Its like some service starts that just kills the connection.

I rolled back to 10.10 on my other instance and it can connect fine.. Ive been trying everything I can find on the forums but I am pretty stumped by this, any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by LowSky on 2011-07-17
maybe a bad package, not sure?

what kind of connection, what application are you using for management of said connection, are you using third party firewall?

---

### Post by loktar00 on 2011-07-17
Just using all of the defaults, this is on a fresh install. Connected directly to my router. I tried an upgrade on a different instance on the same server, and had the same thing happen, so I had to roll back. I then downloaded the ISO and setup a brand new instance altogether, and it does the same thing even on the fresh install... its so odd because like I said the first 10-15 seconds or so it gets a connection then it stops, almost like something that starts up is killing it. If I do a ifconfig for Eth0 it shows a bunch if dropped packets as well.

---

