---
title: "9.04 Frequent Freezes - Display &amp; keybd freeze, mouse ok, apache server ok"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Shrikaant on 2009-04-28
I am getting frequent random freezes on my Ubuntu 9.04.

Details about the freeze:
1. Happens unexpectedly... just like that.
2. I am able to move the mouse pointer, even though the clicks seem to have no effect
3. Keyboard not working since toggling CAPS Lock doesn't change the keyboard led. CTRL + ALT + BACKSPACE also not working
4. Amarok continues to play current song
5. Apache continues to serve pages since i can connect to it via another PC on LAN.
6. Cannot connect to it via VNC though.

What can it be? Where and how do i start the troubleshooting?

I am using a Dell Inspiron 1525 laptop btw. Is it the intel graphics??

---

### Post by petehalatsis on 2009-05-12
I have the same exact problem. Have you found the cause of the problem or even better, the solution?

---

### Post by Shrikaant on 2009-05-13
1. i enabled uxa
2. i added the following to my updates sources "http://ppa.launchpad.net/ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates/ubuntu"
3. i enabled everything in the update types [jaunty security,updates,proposed,backports] {go to update settings}

====================

I havent got those freezes again. Try the above steps one by one to see which one is really the solution. If u need more info about the above stuffs, just google them. I did the above long time back and i dnt remember the details.

I hope i could be of some help to you. May ur pc never freeze! Amen ;)

---

### Post by hagantic42 on 2009-05-14
I have the same problem however it only happens when I connect my Logitech G5 and then all the freezing happens and the moment it is unplugged everything is back to normal.

---

### Post by ubumania on 2009-06-02
I had exactly the same problem on my Inspiron 1525 when I upgraded to Jaunty. Now I am back on Intrepid.

Cheers for posting that fix, I may give it another go in a few weeks.

---

