---
title: "10.4 Gnome desktop is spawning multiple processes"
date: 2010-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by studiogrynn on 2010-07-27
This is the second new install of 10.4 on the same machine with the same issue.
After boot, as soon as user logs into the desktop, sys mon shows cpu at 100 percent and a steady climb in ram usage. several processes are spawned continuously until all ram is consumed and then moves on to use scratch space.

Using top, the process count moves into over a thousand total processes. Some investigation using top, ps, and digging into the /proc folder shows a ppid of 1

If the machine is booted to shell, top shows 120 processes and is stable.

Some of the processes running repetitively are the gnome toolbar, nautilus, and I wish I was clear headed enough to write the others down before I left work. I can certainly get a more complete list in the morning. 

I have swapped out ram, and the processor with no success. I have also tried apt-get purge ubuntu-desktop then installing with apt, this did not resolve it. 

As mentioned at the top of the post, this is the second install with these symptoms. The first install started showing the issue about 10 hours after first boot. On this second install, all was working fine for a couple days before this started in. 

Thoughts?

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-07-27
...try to check your installer if there are anomally or corrupted file/files

---

### Post by studiogrynn on 2010-07-28
> **byStanderone said:**
> ...try to check your installer if there are anomally or corrupted file/files

Ran the disk integrity check on the install disk and it passed just fine.

Edit:
This is the list of spawning processes:

gnome-keyring-d
gnome-panel
dbus-daemon
metacity
apt-check
gdu-notificatio
nautilus
canberra-gtk-pl

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-07-29
...a better way of checking would be to do an md5sum, here's a useful thread: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)

---

### Post by studiogrynn on 2010-07-30
The hash checks out as good. On the second install, I used a second burn, just in case the first was bad. 

So a bit more details:
The issue does not occur when logged in to fail-safe mode right after boot, nor in xterm. However, if logged in to gnome, then logged out and then into fail-safe or xterm, the run-aways still happen.

I have purged GDM and manually removed any dirs that showed errors during the purge. Rebooted and reinstalled gdm without the ubuntu-desktop pkg. Still no joy.

Would it be helpful to purge gdm again, then install kde to see if the issue still exists?

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-07-30
...review your synaptic manager and look for fcgi related softwares if they are installed by default, uninstall them.

---

### Post by studiogrynn on 2010-08-02
Synaptic shows no fcgi installs on this box.

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-08-04
...that's really weird, at least at what i can handle at the moment..lol

---

### Post by chopinhauer on 2010-08-04
> **studiogrynn said:**
> 
This is the list of spawning processes:

gnome-keyring-d
gnome-panel
dbus-daemon
metacity
apt-check
gdu-notificatio
nautilus
canberra-gtk-pl


These are normal components of a Gnome environment, so it is normal if gnome-session spawns them. However you should check which one takes 100% CPU.

My money is on apt-check (which is normal for a short time) or canberra-gtk-play.

**Edit:** If you need a comparison my desktop has about 180 processes, while my server about 100. Splitting the features in a lot of programs is actually a good idea: if one of them crashes, the rest don't care.

---

### Post by jwbrase on 2010-08-04
> **chopinhauer said:**
> These are normal components of a Gnome environment, so it is normal if gnome-session spawns them. However you should check which one takes 100% CPU.

My money is on apt-check (which is normal for a short time) or canberra-gtk-play.

**Edit:** If you need a comparison my desktop has about 180 processes, while my server about 100. Splitting the features in a lot of programs is actually a good idea: if one of them crashes, the rest don't care.

Yes, but the problem the OP is complaining about seems to be that these processes keep on spawning over and over again until they make the machine unusable. For these processes to spawn *once* is normal. For them to spawn over and over again until you have tens or hundreds of each (which is what I understand is happening here) is very much not normal.

---

### Post by studiogrynn on 2010-08-06
> **jwbrase said:**
> Yes, but the problem the OP is complaining about seems to be that these processes keep on spawning over and over again until they make the machine unusable. For these processes to spawn *once* is normal. For them to spawn over and over again until you have tens or hundreds of each (which is what I understand is happening here) is very much not normal.

Exactly!

This is has been a real bugger. I tracked all the processes back to UID 1 and gdm. I thought for sure it would be resolved by removing and re-installing the gdm, figuring that these are all gdm related and perhaps there was a process reading a startup config somewhere that was looping, or not receiving a stop signal. So I purged the gdm and ubuntu-desktop, rebooted, re installed gdm and still no joy.

---

### Post by robo45h on 2010-08-24
I've been having a very similar problem. My system boots OK, but when I try to launch the Synaptic Package manager, the system starts wildly spawning processes and becomes unresponsive. 

Luckily, my system remains functional as long as I avoid running Synaptic, and "apt-get update / upgrade" seem to work fine from the command line. 

When I happen to forget and launch Package Manager, though, it's a bit off-putting to have to hard power-down the system (because a shutdown is usually not possible).

---

### Post by JoakimP on 2010-10-01
I have had problems with Nautilus respawning and creating a high cpu in 10.04 on a Asus 900.
The solution (for me) can be found here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9668140&postcount=11]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9668140&postcount=11")

---

