---
title: "*.tar.gz how to fix/repair? Please help!"
date: 2009-07-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Eli Turk on 2009-07-26
I have a 8.6 GB (9,222,067.545 B to be exact) *tar.gz file that is a compilation of many files. The problem is that it seems that one of the files inside the zipped file is corrupted. How might I fix/repair it? Even if I could just get the other files extracted, that would be great!

I have been to gzip's (the creator of the gz extension's) website ([http://www.gzip.org/](http://www.gzip.org/)) and it tells about a program called fixgz, but I don't understand how to compile or use it.

Also (just a bonus question :D), when I unzip it, what will the new unzipped size be?

Thanks for taking the time to read this and for any help given! I greatly appreciate it!

---

### Post by madsmeg on 2009-07-26
From what I read, it seems to be included in the package.

Try ```
fixgz /path/to/*.tar.gz
```

Also, it depends on the file contents to how compressed the files are, it could extract to double the size, or practically the same. It is not really posible to tell until you extract it.

---

### Post by Eli Turk on 2009-07-29
> **madsmeg said:**
> From what I read, it seems to be included in the package.

Try ```
fixgz /path/to/*.tar.gz
```

Also, it depends on the file contents to how compressed the files are, it could extract to double the size, or practically the same. It is not really posible to tell until you extract it.

Thank you for trying to help me! I tried that and I get the following message from the terminal:

bash: fixgz: command not found

What should I do now?

---

### Post by nikhilk on 2009-07-29
> **Eli Turk said:**
> Thank you for trying to help me! I tried that and I get the following message from the terminal:

bash: fixgz: command not found

What should I do now?

IIRC fixgz ONLY fixes problems due to incorrect line endings caused by transferring the archive over an ASCII channel (like over FTP or GOPHER).

You can test the integrity of the archive by
```
gunzip -tv *tar.gz
```

---

### Post by aesis05401 on 2009-07-29
Have you tried running this through tar?

I was told to always use tar and just supply the arg to run through the right filters to remove other compressions (option z should = gzip filter). 

Example :
```

# -x=extract | -z=gzip filter | -f=file

tar -xzf <archivename>

```

Someone please correct me if I am wrong, but the other unpackers all have requirements about what program you packed with in the first place.

Does this help?

Edit: You can see the tar man page for options to look inside the archive without unpacking it as well.  This may help you to discover the root of the issue.

---

### Post by Eli Turk on 2009-07-30
> **nikhilk said:**
> IIRC fixgz ONLY fixes problems due to incorrect line endings caused by transferring the archive over an ASCII channel (like over FTP or GOPHER).

You can test the integrity of the archive by
```
gunzip -tv *tar.gz
```

Okay, when I run that code, what should happen? Because it seems like nothing happens, but I don't know. I have a snapshot of after I run the code. It this what should happen? Does it mean that the file integrity is good or bad?

aesis05401,
I have not tried that just yet. I am freeing up some more space on my hard drive first.

---

### Post by nikhilk on 2009-07-30
> **Eli Turk said:**
> Okay, when I run that code, what should happen? Because it seems like nothing happens, but I don't know. I have a snapshot of after I run the code. It this what should happen? Does it mean that the file integrity is good or bad?

When I run gunzip -tv on a known good archive, I get output like:
$ gunzip -tv t.gz
t.gz:         OK

---

### Post by aesis05401 on 2009-07-30
Can you tell us the original error message?

---

### Post by lbukys on 2009-08-03
First, to list the contents of the .tar.gz files, you would use:
[INDENT][FONT=Fixedsys]gtar -ztvf whatever.tar.gz[/FONT]
[/INDENT]Second, if it's really corrupted (e.g. by an ASCII file transfer), then recovery is very difficult (though not impossible).  Error messages will be things like "invalid compressed data--crc error".  I can provide more information on recovery if it is critical data you have not other solutions.

---

