---
title: "cron not working on lubuntu 10.04"
date: 2013-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-16
Firstly,
   System Specs...
   Linux...
      lubuntu 10.04 (desktop)
         Partitions...
            4GB mounted as "/", remainder 250MB mounted as swap
         Username: gjd
   PC Specs...
      Home PC #1...
            Machine identity: gjdpc1
           Chip: Pentium II 350MHz
            RAM: 750MB
            Disk: 4.3GB
            Other Op.Systems: none
 It’s an old machine, hence lubuntu 10.04.

[COLOR=#ff0000]***Sorry for the lengthy post, but...***[/COLOR]

 
I seem to be getting nowhere with this and need help (with clear instructions please). I may be getting confused due to all the various combinations of options, so it would be useful if I could get specific pointers to what I need to check for and what I need to do.
 
I have read through these articles and followed various steps...
   [http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-do-i-add-jobs-to-cron-under-linux-or-unix-oses/](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-do-i-add-jobs-to-cron-under-linux-or-unix-oses/)
   [http://askubuntu.com/questions/23009/reasons-why-crontab-does-not-work](http://askubuntu.com/questions/23009/reasons-why-crontab-does-not-work)
   [http://www.pantz.org/software/cron/croninfo.html](http://www.pantz.org/software/cron/croninfo.html)
   [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741298](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1741298)
 
From what I can determine there are two issues:
   1. when cron is started manually, my scheduled job does not appear to run
   2. cron is not started automatically at boot
Issue 1 is my main concern at the moment.
 
Details...
 
I have a single master shell script “Lot99.sh” that runs in sequence the scripts...
   Lot01.sh, Lot02.sh, Lot03.sh, Lot04.sh
and each of these in turn runs Lot00.sh, which does the actual work.
 
All of these scripts include the first two lines...
```
#!/bin/bash
#

```
All scripts have permissions: chmod 757...
```
-rwxr-xrwx 1 gjd gjd 7836 2013-11-15 21:15 Lot00.sh
-rwxr-xrwx 1 gjd gjd 1067 2013-11-15 21:09 Lot01.sh
-rwxr-xrwx 1 gjd gjd  947 2013-11-15 21:09 Lot02.sh
-rwxr-xrwx 1 gjd gjd  946 2013-11-15 21:09 Lot03.sh
-rwxr-xrwx 1 gjd gjd 1107 2013-11-15 21:10 Lot04.sh
-rwxr-xrwx 1 gjd gjd 3294 2013-11-15 20:33 Lot99.sh

```

I have successfully run these all manually in a terminal session as user “gjd” (my username).
When run, stdOut/stdErr are redirected to named files, such as “Lot99 batch startup.log” and “Lot99 batch startup.err” so that I can verify all is working okay, and it is.
 
I want to schedule these for daily running. The intention is to have Lot99.sh run at 5 minutes past midnight every night.
 
Yesterday, under use “gjd” (not root), I did...
```
crontab –e
```
and entered my details...
```
5 0 * * * /home/gjd/vw7.5nc/image/gjd/Lot99.sh
```
followed by...
      sudo cat /var/spool/cron/crontabs/gjd
that produced the output...
```
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/tmp/crontab.GJSo0f/crontab installed on Fri Nov 15 21:40:55 2013)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
# m h  dom mon dow   command
5 0 * * * /home/gjd/vw7.5nc/image/gjd/Lot99.sh
```
 
However, it did not run.
 
I have also added a “MAILTO=myemail.add” (obviously not showing my real address!) using crontab –e and yet I receive no emails informing me of any errors.
 
 
This morning I investigated further. The steps below are pretty much as they occurred (from my notes).
 
I followed the instructions in one of the articles and added the line. . .
```
* * * * * env > /tmp/env.output
```
It ran and produced " /tmp/env.output" containing...
```
HOME=/home/gjd
LOGNAME=gjd
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin
LANG=en_GB.utf8
SHELL=/bin/sh
PWD=/home/gjd
```
I have since removed that line from crontab.
 
Info: neither of these files exist...
      /etc/cron.allow
      /etc/cron.deny
   from website: “you also might want to check if the /etc/security/access.conf file exists. You might need to add your user in there.” – I haven’t done this yet, I thought it best to seek advice in the forum before I start changing numerous other files.
 
Info: my file /etc/password contains...
```
gjd:x:1000:1000:Gary,,,,:/home/gjd:/bin/bash
```
 
Info: the file “etc/security/access/conf” contains comment lines only, no user-specific entries.
 
 
I subsequently tried the following:
 
Typed...
   ps -ef | grep cron
produced...
   (nothing shown)
 
   pgrep cron
produced...
   (nothing shown)
 
   ps -ef | grep -i cron
produced...
```
root       685     1  0 10:57 ?        00:00:00 anacron -s
root      1084   685  0 11:02 ?        00:00:00 /bin/sh -c nice run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily
root      1085  1084  0 11:02 ?        00:00:00 run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily
root      1091  1085  0 11:02 ?        00:00:00 /bin/sh /etc/cron.daily/apt
gjd       1207   893  0 11:10 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto -i cron

``` 

   status cron
produced...
   cron stop/waiting
 
   /etc/rsyslog.conf|grep cron
produced...
   (no cron entry shown)
 
 
So I started cron manually using “sudo service cron start” and then checked again...
 
   status cron
produced...
   cron start/running
 
   ps -ef | grep -i cron
produced...
```
root      1519     1  0 11:42 ?        00:00:00 cron
root      2018  1519  0 12:04 ?        00:00:00 CRON
gjd       2021  2018  0 12:04 ?        00:00:00 [cron] <defunct>
gjd       2026   893  0 12:04 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto -i cron

```
 
This output is different from that shown above.
I also notice that at different times the lines that shows…
   root      2018  1519  0 12:04 ?        00:00:00 CRON
(i.e. with CRON in uppercase) does not always appear, I have no idea what/why it is uppercase?
 
Irrespective of everything else, including stopping/starting cron, loginoff/on, rebooting, I still get this every time...
   chkconfig | grep cron
produced...
```
anacron                     off
cron                        off
```
 
 
My scheduled job does not run, even though I assume that cron is running it due to the “CMD” entries shown in the following, if I’m interpreting it correctly...
   grep -i cron /var/log/syslog | tail -11
produced...
```

Nov 16 12:17:01 gjdpc1 CRON[2669]: (root) CMD (   cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly)
Nov 16 12:17:01 gjdpc1 CRON[2670]: (gjd) CMD (root    cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly)
Nov 16 12:17:01 gjdpc1 CRON[2671]: (gjd) CMD (/home/gjd/vw7.5nc/image/gjd/Lot99.sh)
Nov 16 12:19:33 gjdpc1 anacron[678]: Anacron 2.3 started on 2013-11-16
Nov 16 12:19:34 gjdpc1 anacron[678]: Normal exit (0 jobs run)
Nov 16 12:21:26 gjdpc1 crontab[764]: (gjd) LIST (gjd)
Nov 16 12:22:32 gjdpc1 cron[775]: (CRON) INFO (pidfile fd = 3)
Nov 16 12:22:33 gjdpc1 cron[776]: (CRON) STARTUP (fork ok)
Nov 16 12:22:33 gjdpc1 cron[776]: (CRON) INFO (Running @reboot jobs)
Nov 16 12:23:01 gjdpc1 CRON[785]: (gjd) CMD (/home/gjd/vw7.5nc/image/gjd/Lot99.sh)
Nov 16 12:24:01 gjdpc1 CRON[808]: (gjd) CMD (/home/gjd/vw7.5nc/image/gjd/Lot99.sh)
```
 
Earlier I got the output...
         Nov 16 11:26:43 gjdpc1 anacron[685]: Job `cron.daily' terminated
         Nov 16 11:26:43 gjdpc1 anacron[685]: Normal exit (1 job run)
I suppose timing is a factor.
 
Also, whenever I do...
   pgrep cron
a different number appears, understandably.
 
 
When I now do...
   sudo cat /var/spool/cron/crontabs/gjd
it produces the output...
```
# /etc/crontab: system-wide crontab
# Unlike any other crontab you don't have to run the `crontab'
# command to install the new version when you edit this file
# and files in /etc/cron.d. These files also have username fields,
# that none of the other crontabs do.
  
SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin
  
MAILTO=myemail.add
  
# m h dom mon dow user   command
17 *  * * *    root    cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.hourly
25 6  * * *    root      test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily )
47 6  * * 7    root      test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.weekly )
52 6  1 * *    root      test -x /usr/sbin/anacron || ( cd / && run-parts --report /etc/cron.monthly )
5 0 * * * /home/gjd/vw7.5nc/image/gjd/Lot99.sh
#

``` 
I have even changed it to...
   * * * * * /home/gjd/vw7.5nc/image/gjd/Lot99.sh
But still nothing happens and I can find no error messages.

So now what? :confused:

---

### Post by Zill on 2013-11-16
> **soshomeinsurance said:**
> ...I have a single master shell script “Lot99.sh” that runs in sequence the scripts...
   Lot01.sh, Lot02.sh, Lot03.sh, Lot04.sh...
This might be due to problems with cron using files with the ".sh" extension.  From "man cron":
> ...Files must conform to the same naming  convention  as  used  by  run-parts(8):  they  must consist solely of upper- and lower-case letters, digits, underscores, and hyphens...
I suggest you rename "Lot99.sh" to "Lot99" and then try this again in your crontab e.g.
```
mv Lot99.sh Lot99
crontab –e
5 0 * * * /home/gjd/vw7.5nc/image/gjd/Lot99
```
If this runs correctly then remove extensions for any other scripts you wish to run with cron.

Bug report [#38022 - "run-parts doesn't run script with sh extension"]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/debianutils/+bug/38022") gives more details.

---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-17
Yes I saw that bug report, thanks for the tip.
 
I have discovered the problem. When the PC boots for the first time on a given day, anacron starts up the cron service, then changes the timestamp in the cron.daily so further reboots don’t start the cron service again.
 
As far as my Lot99 job goes, I discovered that cron was running (the first boot, anyway) it but I fell foul of the gotcha at [http://askubuntu.com/questions/23009/reasons-why-crontab-does-not-work](http://askubuntu.com/questions/23009/reasons-why-crontab-does-not-work)
about cron passing only a minimal set of environment variables to jobs. Doh!
 
I tried the recommended [bash -c "mybashcommand"], [SHELL=/bin/bash] and the shebang [#!/bin/bash] but still only the minimal set of environment variables were passed to my job.
 
My script uses some environment variables when setting the log filenames when I redirect stdout/stderr. Hence even those statements were failing and my redirected logs were not created as expected. I was trying to be too clever. I have now changed the way I do this by using a master script to declare environment variables and then include (source) that script into my other scripts. The log files now get created and I have been able to debug my scripts.  Now all I need to do is figure out a way to add the startup of the cron service to bootup command list.
 
Interestingly, even though cron does run for the first boot of the day, my changes to my own crontab get dropped after each reboot. I keep having to re-add them each session. This applies to any changes including SHELL, PATH, MAILTO and any listed jobs. I don’t yet know why this happens.

---

### Post by Zill on 2013-11-17
soshomeinsurance:  Did you actually *try* my suggestion of renaming your script(s) to remove the ".sh" extension?

It worked for me when I had a similar problem. :-)

---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-17
Yes Zill, although I didn't need to since it is working now, so I've changed it back to include the .sh. But thanks again.
I've also investigated a way to startup cron on each reboot (when it's not already running).

I'm still stuck on why my changes to my own crontab get dropped after each reboot.
It is going to be a nuisance to have to keep reloading my changes from file every reboot, if even possible.

---

### Post by Zill on 2013-11-17
> **soshomeinsurance said:**
> Yes Zill, although I didn't need to since it is working now, so I've changed it back to include the .sh...
I still don't understand if removing the .sh extension meant your original script ran correctly with cron.  If it did, then by adding the extension back again this *could* be the cause of some of your problems.

Cron should automatically start at boot and respawn if it stops later.  I understand this is done via "upstart" and so you might like to try purging and reinstalling this package in case it has been corrupted.

I have no idea why your own crontab changes are dropped but I would test with a new user (or root) and see if the same thing happens.  Maybe someone else can throw some light on this one.

---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-17
I did the upstart package reinstallation, which made no difference.

(when I installed Lubuntu a couple of error messages flashed up, one of which vanished before I could see what it said. Because the installation completed anyway I assumed everything was okay. It's a red-herring perhaps, but I wonder if something went wrong during installation, although maybe nothing to with this problem anyway)

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2013-11-17
> **soshomeinsurance said:**
> When the PC boots for the first time on a given day, anacron starts up the cron service, then changes the timestamp in the cron.daily so further reboots don’t start the cron service again.
 [...]
 Now all I need to do is figure out a way to add the startup of the cron service to bootup command list.
 
Interestingly, even though cron does run for the first boot of the day, my changes to my own crontab get dropped after each reboot. I keep having to re-add them each session. This applies to any changes including SHELL, PATH, MAILTO and any listed jobs. I don’t yet know why this happens.

There's a difference between the cron service (which always starts at boot) and various periodic jobs (which are run for cron by anacron).

Don't try to run cron.daily more than once each day. It will cause rather annoying side-effects like double-notification of updates. cron.daily is intened to run only once in 24 hours. The behavior with anacron is deliberate and expected by several system services. If you need a job that runs daily-AND-each-reboot, you should have two similar jobs: A daily job and an @reboot job.

Looking at your original post, I see a lot of different cron jobs. I can't figure out which one is getting changed, nor which ones in your post are the before and after snapshots. Er, could you please reiterate?

---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-19
Zill –
my apologies but I was mistaken in my earlier post. When I removed the .sh extension the job did NOT run. I have double–checked this and made sure that the cron service was running. Without the .sh extension, the job did not run from cron. My earlier confusion was caused by my having ran my log99.sh script manually. Sorry.
I have also noticed that my changes to crontab are now being retained between reboots. I must have done something wrong the first couple of times that caused my changes to be dropped, but now they’re retained.
Checked - cron gets started automatically on my machine on the first reboot of the day (anacron. . .cron.daily), but at no other reboot.
 
Ian Weisser -
as far as separate jobs goes, that is how I’ve proceeded. Now I have introduced a /etc/xdg/autostart/startup.desktop file and it runs every reboot.  I did briefly use anacron, but prefer my own autostart job.
 
The overriding issues that I have experienced with cron were down to my own confusion (and impatience, I guess) – all in spite of having read through the articles I mentioned at the top of my first post.
 
Thanks for feedback and help guys. :)

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2013-11-19
> **soshomeinsurance said:**
> I have introduced a /etc/xdg/autostart/startup.desktop file and it runs every reboot.

Happy to see that it is working for you now.

FYI: startup.desktop runs at login, not bootup. For most desktop users, they are *almost* but not quite the same. For example, let's say you poweron your computer at 5:30, but while waiting to login and emergency draws you away from the system for a long time. The system is booted, but your job will not run until someone logs into the system.

It's not usually a problem. Understanding the conceptual difference between *boot* and *login* prevents unexpected behavior later.

---

### Post by Zill on 2013-11-19
> **soshomeinsurance said:**
> Zill –
my apologies but I was mistaken in my earlier post. When I removed the .sh extension the job did NOT run. I have double–checked this and made sure that the cron service was running. Without the .sh extension, the job did not run from cron. My earlier confusion was caused by my having ran my log99.sh script manually. Sorry...
Thanks but now I am really confused. ;-)

If correctly configured, cron should always run a file *without* an extension.  It is only files *with* an extension that *may* not run on certain systems.

However, you seem to have resolved the problems now and so it would be appreciated if you would mark this thread as "solved".

---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-20
Sadly, cron starts on first boot of the day, but then appears to die. I cannot figure out why.
My plan is to completely uninstall upstart, anacron and cron, shut down, then reinstall them all again.

Another idea is to include
```
CHECKCRON=$(pgrep cron)
if [ "$CHECKCRON" = "" ] 
then
 # cron is NOT running, so it needs starting
     service cron start
else
 # cron is already running, so leave it alone
fi;
```
in my new startup script, but how to get 
```
   service cron start
```
to run as user "gjd" rather than root?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2013-11-20
Er, do NOT remove upstart and then shut down. Your system will be unbootable without upstart, and require a reinstall.

Grep for 'cron' in /var/log/syslog for any error messages about cron.
Since cron.hourly runs hourly, and reports in syslog when it runs, look in the hour before it stops reporting.
Or are you saying that cron fails/dies *during* the boot process?

Don't run cron as a user. Cron is designed to run as root. Running as a user may cause unexpected behavior, or fail entirely.
Cron (as root) can run any number of jobs. The jobs can be from any number of root and user crontabs, and each of those jobs will run as the appropriate user.

---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-20
Thanks for the timely warning Ian.

Below, I have included extracts of information gleaned during removal/install/reboots, hopefully this time in the correct time-related order.

First boot of the day  - 13:39 - before removal of cron and anacron.

```
cat /var/log/syslog
Nov 20 14:04:38 gjdpc1 rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="4.2.0" x-pid="420" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] rsyslogd was HUPed, type 'lightweight'.
Nov 20 14:05:06 gjdpc1 anacron[693]: Job 'cron.daily' terminated
Nov 20 14:05:06 gjdpc1 anacron[693]: Normal exit (1 job run)
Nov 20 14:09:31 gjdpc1 sSMTP[1417]: Creating SSL connection to host
Nov 20 14:09:32 gjdpc1 sSMTP[1417]: SSL connection using RSA_ARCFOUR_SHA1
Nov 20 14:09:42 gjdpc1 sSMTP[1417]: Sent mail for <********hidden********> (221 2.0.0 closing connection y20sm45414817wib.0 - gsmtp) uid=1000 username=gjd outbytes=419
Nov 20 14:34:04 gjdpc1 NetworkManager: <info>  Unmanaged Device found; state CONNECTED forced. (see http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/191889)
Nov 20 14:40:46 gjdpc1 cron[1770]: (CRON) INFO (pidfile fd = 3)
Nov 20 14:40:46 gjdpc1 cron[1771]: (CRON) STARTUP (fork ok)
Nov 20 14:40:46 gjdpc1 cron[1771]: (CRON) INFO (Running @reboot jobs)
Nov 20 14:43:33 gjdpc1 crontab[1784]: (gjd) LIST (gjd)
Nov 20 14:48:23 gjdpc1 init: cron main process (1771) killed by TERM signal
Nov 20 14:50:36 gjdpc1 kernel: Kernel logging (proc) stopped.
Nov 20 14:53:25 gjdpc1 kernel: imklog 4.2.0, log source = /proc/kmsg started.
Nov 20 14:53:25 gjdpc1 rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="4.2.0" x-pid="430" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] (re)start
Nov 20 14:53:25 gjdpc1 rsyslogd: rsyslogd's groupid changed to 103
Nov 20 14:53:25 gjdpc1 rsyslogd: rsyslogd's userid changed to 101
Nov 20 14:53:25 gjdpc1 rsyslogd-2039: Could no open output file '/dev/xconsole' [try http://www.rsyslog.com/e/2039 ]
Nov 20 14:53:25 gjdpc1 kernel: [    0.000000] Initializing cgroup subsys cpuset
Nov 20 14:53:25 gjdpc1 kernel: [    0.000000] Initializing cgroup subsys cpu
Nov 20 14:53:25 gjdpc1 kernel: [    0.000000] Linux version 2.6.32-21-generic (buildd@rothera) (gcc version 4.4.3 (Ubuntu 4.4.3-4ubuntu5) ) #32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 08:10:02 UTC 2010 (Ubuntu 2.6.32-21.32-generic 2.6.32.11+drm33.2)
```


Then...
I uninstalled both cron and anacron, using terminal sudo apt-get remove, then also via the package manager (which indicated that cron was still installed). 
Afterwards the package manager showed both cron and anacron as having been completely removed.


Cold (complete) shutdown. 10 seconds wait. Boot - 14:53

Reinstalled cron and anacron:
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install cron
sudo apt-get install anacron

cat /var/log/syslog
```
Nov 20 14:53:49 gjdpc1 NetworkManager: <info>  Unmanaged Device found; state CONNECTED forced. (see http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/191889)
Nov 20 14:57:46 gjdpc1 ntpd[495]: synchronized to 91.189.89.199, stratum 2
Nov 20 14:57:46 gjdpc1 ntpd[495]: kernel time sync status change 2001
Nov 20 14:58:06 gjdpc1 cron[886]: (CRON) INFO (pidfile fd = 3)
Nov 20 14:58:06 gjdpc1 cron[887]: (CRON) STARTUP (fork ok)
Nov 20 14:58:06 gjdpc1 cron[887]: (CRON) INFO (Running @reboot jobs)
Nov 20 14:58:29 gjdpc1 ntpd[495]: Listening on interface #4 lo, ::1#123 Enabled
Nov 20 14:58:29 gjdpc1 ntpd[495]: Listening on interface #5 lo, 127.0.0.1#123 Enabled
Nov 20 14:58:29 gjdpc1 ntpd[495]: new interface(s) found: waking up resolver
```

"Observation, 15:11... (suspect cron got started when reinstalled)"
```
status cron
cron start/running, process 887
```


Cold shutdown. 6 seconds wait. Boot - 15:24

cat /var/log/syslog
```
Nov 20 15:24:01 gjdpc1 kernel: imklog 4.2.0, log source = /proc/kmsg started.
Nov 20 15:24:01 gjdpc1 rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="4.2.0" x-pid="421" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] (re)start
Nov 20 15:24:01 gjdpc1 rsyslogd: rsyslogd's groupid changed to 103
Nov 20 15:24:01 gjdpc1 rsyslogd: rsyslogd's userid changed to 101
Nov 20 15:24:01 gjdpc1 rsyslogd-2039: Could no open output file '/dev/xconsole' [try http://www.rsyslog.com/e/2039 ]
Nov 20 15:24:01 gjdpc1 kernel: [    0.000000] Initializing cgroup subsys cpuset
Nov 20 15:24:01 gjdpc1 kernel: [    0.000000] Initializing cgroup subsys cpu
Nov 20 15:24:01 gjdpc1 kernel: [    0.000000] Linux version 2.6.32-21-generic (buildd@rothera) (gcc version 4.4.3 (Ubuntu 4.4.3-4ubuntu5) ) #32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 08:10:02 UTC 2010 (Ubuntu 2.6.32-21.32-generic 2.6.32.11+drm33.2)
...<snip>...
Nov 20 15:24:24 gjdpc1 NetworkManager: <info>  Unmanaged Device found; state CONNECTED forced. (see http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/191889)
Nov 20 15:24:24 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Anacron 2.3 started on 2013-11-20
Nov 20 15:24:25 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Will run job 'cron.daily' in 5 min.
Nov 20 15:24:25 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Will run job 'cron.weekly' in 10 min.
Nov 20 15:24:25 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Will run job 'cron.monthly' in 15 min.
Nov 20 15:24:25 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Jobs will be executed sequentially
Nov 20 15:28:23 gjdpc1 ntpd[496]: synchronized to 91.189.89.199, stratum 2
Nov 20 15:28:23 gjdpc1 ntpd[496]: kernel time sync status change 2001
Nov 20 15:29:24 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Job 'cron.daily' started
Nov 20 15:29:24 gjdpc1 anacron[800]: Updated timestamp for job 'cron.daily' to 2013-11-20
Nov 20 15:36:47 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Job 'cron.daily' terminated
Nov 20 15:36:47 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Job 'cron.weekly' started
Nov 20 15:36:47 gjdpc1 anacron[1089]: Updated timestamp for job 'cron.weekly' to 2013-11-20
Nov 20 15:36:55 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Job 'cron.weekly' terminated
Nov 20 15:39:24 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Job 'cron.monthly' started
Nov 20 15:39:24 gjdpc1 anacron[1205]: Updated timestamp for job 'cron.monthly' to 2013-11-20
Nov 20 15:39:24 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Job 'cron.monthly' terminated
Nov 20 15:39:24 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Normal exit (3 jobs run)
```

"Observation, 15:25..."
```
status cron
cron stop/waiting

```

"Observation, 15:29..."
```
ls -l /var/spool
total 16
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 4096 2013-11-20 15:24 anacron
drwxr-xr-x 5 root root 4096 2013-11-20 14:57 cron
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root    7 2013-11-11 14:15 mail -> ../mail
drwx--x--- 3 root lp   4096 2010-04-30 14:23 cups
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root 4096 2010-04-27 10:02 plymouth

ls -l /var/spool/anacron
total 0
-rw------- 1 root root 0 2013-11-20 15:24 cron.monthly
-rw------- 1 root root 0 2013-11-20 15:24 cron.weekly
-rw------- 1 root root 0 2013-11-20 15:24 cron.daily

ls -l /var/spool/cron
total 12
drwx-wx--T 2 root   crontab 4096 2012-07-17 03:37 crontabs
drwxrwx--T 2 daemon daemon  4096 2010-04-29 22:25 atjobs
drwxrwx--T 2 daemon daemon  4096 2010-03-05 02:35 atspool

ls -l /var/spool/cron/crontabs
total 0
```

"Observation, 15:29..."
```
status cron
cron stop/waiting
```

"Observation, 15:30... (cron appears to have woken up again, I assume due to 'cron.daily')"
```
pgrep cron
692
```

"Observation, 15:35..."
```
ps -ef | grep cron
root       692     1  0 15:24 ?        00:00:00 anacron -s
root       796   692  0 15:29 ?        00:00:00 /bin/sh -c nice run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily
root       797   796  0 15:29 ?        00:00:00 run-parts --report /etc/cron.daily
root       803   797  0 15:29 ?        00:00:00 /bin/sh /etc/cron.daily/apt
gjd        838   758  0 15:35 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto cron
```


"Observation, 15:41... (cron appears to have died again)"
```
ps -ef | grep cron
gjd       1301   758  0 15:41 pts/0    00:00:00 grep --color=auto cron
```


Cold shutdown. 8 seconds wait. Boot - 15:54

```
cat /var/log/syslog
...<snip>...
Nov 20 15:54:22 gjdpc1 ntpd[499]: Listening on interface #5 eth0, 192.168.1.61#123 Enabled
Nov 20 15:54:22 gjdpc1 ntpd[499]: kernel time sync status 2040
Nov 20 15:54:22 gjdpc1 ntpd[499]: frequency initialized -208.037 PPM from /var/lib/ntp/ntp.drift
Nov 20 15:54:27 gjdpc1 kernel: [   23.576266] eth0: no IPv6 routers present
Nov 20 15:54:37 gjdpc1 polkitd[644]: started daemon version 0.96 using authority implementation 'local' version '0.96'
Nov 20 15:54:38 gjdpc1 NetworkManager: <info>  Unmanaged Device found; state CONNECTED forced. (see http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/191889)
Nov 20 15:54:38 gjdpc1 NetworkManager: <info>  Unmanaged Device found; state CONNECTED forced. (see http://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/191889)
Nov 20 15:54:41 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Anacron 2.3 started on 2013-11-20
Nov 20 15:54:42 gjdpc1 anacron[692]: Normal exit (0 jobs run)
Nov 20 15:56:26 gjdpc1 crontab[1148]: (gjd) LIST (gjd)
```

"Observation, 15:58"
```
status cron
cron stop/waiting
```


Cron did not run again after this point.

I appreciate the principals of anacron and cron. I can see that anacron runs certain tasks at certain times and that when file timestamp info is updated on selected tasks (.daily, etc) then those don't get run again.
However, cron definitely appears to die sortly after boot 1 of the day (and the reinstallations above). 
Also cron is not getting started automatically on subsequent reboots. 
I can understand some of the above syslog info but perhaps I'm missing something that would indicate what is or isn't happening as it should. 
Any clues?

Footnotes: 
The machine is an old type (AT) and I have ***autologin on startup***.
I want to use this old machine 24/7, but I live in a rural area and suffer brown-outs and occasionally complete power losses of up to several hours. Hence the importance of getting cron up and running on reboots. 
I don't have a UPS.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2013-11-20
Well, you found cron's death throes. But we don't know why it does...or was killed.
```
Nov 20 14:48:23 gjdpc1 init: cron main process (1771) killed by TERM signal
```
init is merely the reporter here.

In *theory*, if another process killed cron (I have never heard of that happening) it may be possible to trace which process is the murderer. [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8400530/how-can-i-tell-in-linux-which-process-sent-my-process-signal](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/8400530/how-can-i-tell-in-linux-which-process-sent-my-process-signal)
I have not tried that method.

Usually, I start with the assumption that the installed system is stable (unless there's a bug report on the issue). That means cron likely out-of-the-box wasn't being killed. I think that's fair - cron has worked flawlessly for me upon 14 releases of Ubuntu. So then I start going through all post-install customizations. We know it happens a few minutes after boot, but apparently not part of the actual boot sequence. Could be a custom (@reboot, hourly, or custom custom) cronjob that has an unexpected effect. Or a delayed-action event (at job, script with "sleep" command) from init or init.d.

Hmm.
How much time do you want to invest looking for it?
A data-backup and reinstall may be a faster route to getting rid of the problem, if time is an issue.

---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-21
> **ian-weisser said:**
> 
Hmm.
How much time do you want to invest looking for it?
A data-backup and reinstall may be a faster route to getting rid of the problem, if time is an issue.

Precisely. I think I have spent enough time on this. I may opt for a complete reinstall, or try another version of lubuntu that my machine might be able to accommodate, maybe 11.04. It would probably be quicker than spending any more time on this niggling problem.

Thanks for all your help. I hope I can return the favour some day.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2013-11-21
FYI: 10.04 and 11.04 are both long past end-of-life, and no longer supported.

---

### Post by SageOfSmeg on 2013-11-24
I managed to install 10.10, but obviously could not download any of my required software because the repositories are no longer available. I also tried 11.04, 11.10 and 12.04-desktop. Each time installation froze, failed or could not proceed due to insufficient available hard disk space.

Eventually I managed to install 12.04 from the alternate ISO. Surprisingly, post-install it used only 67% of my tiny 4.3GB drive and I have since upgraded it to 12.04.3 (I have main Ubuntu 12.04.3 on another PC so it's nice to have them roughly in sync).
 
Lubuntu runs painfully slowly (frequently up to 100% CPU usage) but since I will only be using it as a 24/7 network monitoring machine, it’s good enough. I won’t be watching videos, gaming, or using it for any other intensive work.
 
The bottom line is that I am pleased to report that cron gets started on every reboot and the repositories are available for software downloads.
 
Done at last! :D

---

