---
title: "10.04 stops responding for a few seconds"
date: 2010-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by teacherjeff on 2010-09-15
I know this is the kind of vague post that people hate.  But I'm having a problem.  Every now and then (several times a day), my computer stops responding for several seconds.  

I notice it most in Firefox.  If I'm typing information in a form (like this one) on a web page, everything just stops.  If I keep typing, the text eventually appears, apparently having been stored in a keyboard buffer.

But it's not just in Firefox.  I have had the same problem in OpenOffice applications.  Things just stop.  The computer apears to "think" for several seconds, and then things continue.

After several seconds, everything is okay.  So some people may say that this is normal.  And while I'm no guru, I have been around computers for a long time, so I remember back in the day when this happened all the time.  But I haven't seen it (at least to this extent) in previous versions of Ubuntu (or in Windows).

It's a serious problem.

Does anybody have any suggestions at all about what I should look at?  I have a feeling that there is some setting somewhere (cache, etc.) that is set wrong.  But I have no idea where to start.

Help????

---

### Post by -kg- on 2010-09-15
While this post may be of dubious help, I too have experienced this problem, especially with Firefox, but with other software as well.  I have the distinct feeling that some running process or software is not set very ["nice".]("http://blogs.techrepublic.com.com/opensource/?p=140") (<-Click and read...it's fairly short)

While I couldn't begin to tell you what to look at or what might be done about it, perhaps someone with a bit more knowledge could take this concept and run with it.  I've seen many posts on this subject, and suggestions would be much appreciated by many (including me!).

It's not a major issue with me...I just wait until the software starts responding again, but there are times when the software stops responding altogether and I have to "force-kill" it.  I've even had it happen with Audacity during an audio editing project.  While it might have been a latency problem, it was too similar to what happens occasionally in Firefox and elsewhere.

Needless to say, the freeze-up and consequent "force-kill" caused me to lose my editing, and I had to start over.  Luckily the projects were small and easily reproducible, but I'd hate to have it happen at the end of a large, complex one.

> **teacherjeff said:**
> It's a serious problem.

I agree...it can be very serious, especially if Murphy's Law takes full effect, and very much more so if you're using Ubuntu in a business setting or as an adjunct to your business.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-09-15
Sounds to me like X is hanging. Check ~/.xsession-errors to see if there's any suspicious error messages.

---

### Post by -kg- on 2010-09-15
As an addendum:

You and I are by far from being the only ones to experience this.  While I hate to do this as a response for help, you might find an answer in the following thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787")

The reason I hate giving you this reference is the same reason it proves we aren't the only ones...there are ***104 pages*** of responses and posts, many by those experiencing these problems.

A page or two in I found something I'm trying right now.  I do not (anticipate) use(-ing) Ubuntuone, so I disabled it and have logged in/out to disable the service.  I'm sure, with 104 pages of responses, that there are many "points of interest", but I don't hold too much hope, considering the issue is still unresolved.

> **WorMzy said:**
> Sounds to me like X is hanging. Check ~/.xsession-errors to see if there's any suspicious error messages.

Yes, especially like:

> The only thing that is certain is that the following errors / warnings always appear in .xsession-errors file:

1.
Window manager warning: Failed to read saved session file /home/lkrory21/.config/metacity/sessions/1080c45259ed06f712734738133612800000012480026.ms: Failed to open file '/home/lkrory21/.config/metacity/sessions/1080c45259ed06f712734738133612800000012480026.ms': No such file or directory

2.
(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1321): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: cannot register existing type `_PolkitError'

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1321): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_once_init_leave: assertion `initialization_value != 0' failed

3.
** (update-notifier:1457): DEBUG: Skipping reboot required

4. (If I use Chrome)
(exe:1524): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead

5. (If I use Firefox, in this case the file is literally flooded with this warning)
(firefox-bin:1579): Gdk-WARNING **: XID collision, trouble ahead


The above is from the thread linked to above.  There are more posted, but by and large they say much the same thing.  If you find them, you may (or may not) find your answer in that thread.

There've been Launchpad bugs filed on the issue and everything, which are also linked to in the other thread.

---

### Post by quadproc on 2010-09-15
> **teacherjeff said:**
> 
After several seconds, everything is okay.  So some people may say that this is normal.  And while I'm no guru, I have been around computers for a long time, so I remember back in the day when this happened all the time.  But I haven't seen it (at least to this extent) in previous versions of Ubuntu (or in Windows).

You might gain some insight into the problem by running the System Monitor (from the System Administration menu) and seeing what it shows in terms of processor utilization, memory utilization, and swap space utilization while the problem is occurring.

Caveat: if the monitor is also "stopped" by the problem then the monitor can't report on the problem so don't believe that the monitor *will* find the problem.  You might want to renice the monitor to a high priority to help prevent this.

One of my first guesses is that you are experiencing swapping of substantial amounts of memory.  If so, the monitor should show this.

Another thought: 10.04 is known to have a bug that sometimes a CPU to spin; I do not know what causes this bug to occur but I have occasionally seen it.  It has something to do with the task scheduler, according to what I have read, and the fix is known and will eventually work its way into a future kernel release.

There are some other system utilization tools such as _top_ but they generally will show the same things as the system monitor does.  Nevertheless, it might be useful to run some of them.

quadproc

---

