---
title: "11.04 Dual monitors ATI 5770 Network with no DHCP 4 hard drives to mount starcraft 2"
date: 2011-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by marcoftheknight on 2011-05-23
Ok so for start to finish I going to give every solution to main problems hoping I can get everything in this thread for someone who has a setup that is close an is trying to do the same thing.
setup amd64bit created a live DVD of the 11.4 64 bit burn pope inside went to install put selected the second option because putting it on a 60G vertex ocz super fast drive. used the entire drive for ubuntu.  have mirror dual monitor installed the proprietary drivers from amd.
go to Ubuntu software center type additional drives install and install the proprietary drivers from ati you should be able to figure that out then lauch the ati catalyst control and setup your 1 and 2 monitors so that they are correct.
 
ok now install Wine ubuntu software thingy tip wine don't do the beta right now im stuck on installing starcraft and mounting the other hard drives will get back to you and make a better guide on this.

oh by the way if your Internet isn't connecting automatically you might need to set your IPV4 setting manually this is because you have set your router with DHCP disabled.

Code needed for install:

nautilus $HOME


[SIZE=3]**[COLOR=YellowGreen]PLAY ON LINUX is working for SC2  [/COLOR]**[/SIZE]Sois crashes though and during install sont font was missing neede to guesse correct button to install.

More useful code
To mount the drive ro (read only):
[LIST=1]
[*]Make a mount point.
[*]mount
[/LIST]

First open a terminal.

Then type these commands (assuming the partition is /dev/hdb1):
     Code:
     sudo mkdir /mnt/music
sudo mount /dev/hdb1 /mnt/music -t ntfs 
_Note_: if the partition is not /dev/hdb1 you will need to adjuxt accordingly.

To make the mount automatic at boot you need to edit fstab:     Code:
     sudo gedit /etc/fstab 
Add this line:     Quote:
                                                 /dev/hdb1 /mnt/music ntfs auto,users,ro 0 0                                 
Again, adjust your partition accordingly if needed.

Copy and paste the contents of /etc/fstab (in your next post) and type in a terminal "sudo fdisk -l" (w/o quotes) and copy and paste the output.

Please post the outputs of:-
     Code:
     cat /etc/mtab 
and
     Code:
     sudo fdisk -l 
l being simple L not number 
other ideas
1.I set the preference as the music folder

  I can open a terminal and do a sudo nautilus,
About windows formated har drives NTFS and linux
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=217009)

[COLOR=Blue]
[SIZE=3]
May 27 2011 Latest problem for 5 hardrives mounted

[COLOR=Black]- can't see all the files and folders 
- only recognizes 5 folders no permission differences

[COLOR=Sienna]to solve
[COLOR=Black][SIZE=2]trying to change disk partitions from Dynamic Partitions
to normal full partitions copied all data into one partition formated the other side and extend as a normal volume disk hopefully this solve the problem.
[/SIZE]
Gettin the optical out to work
[/COLOR][/COLOR][/COLOR][/SIZE][/COLOR] [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=996990](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=996990)




Thanks

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-23
Have you tried using PlayOnLinux to get Starcraft 2 running yet?  Works like a charm over here.

---

### Post by backu on 2011-05-23
> **marcoftheknight said:**
> 

oh by the way if your Internet isn't connecting automatically you might need to set your IPV4 setting manually this is because you have set your router with DHCP disabled.

Thanks

Or your system isn't configured properly. My system installed with my eth0 being set in manual, and not managed by NetworkManager, so I had to edit /etc/network/interfaces and set iface eth0 to inet dhcp, then sudo ifdown eth0;sudo ifup eth0

---

### Post by marcoftheknight on 2011-05-27
FYI

PLAYON LINUX worked Great! thanks 
I will put this in my how to guide for the full setup.

Thanks

---

