---
title: "10.04, Firefox, Wine &amp; MS Office 2007"
date: 2010-07-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gaming_guy on 2010-07-07
Hi all,

A few days ago I started an unattended install of MS office 2007 by mistake (didn't have the keyboard captured into a windows VM running at the time). For some reason the office installer didn't want to uninstall it and kept crashing even after trying various things to try and get it to uninstall it never did.

I then deleted the .wine directory and uninstalled wine via synaptic which got rid of office but didn't get rid of the firefox problem that I'm having. Now whenever i download a word (.doc/.docx and I'm assuming other MS office files) it tries to open in Microsoft office word which now longer exists on my system with no option to open the doc in OO which I would like it to do.

I have been through most of the file extensions for office 2007 and managed to change them back to open in OO in gnome but firefox still thinks that office exists on the system even if a new FF profile is used.

Does anyone have any ideas to what it could be and how I change it back or will I have to reimage my system? 

Running ubuntu 10.04 amd64 with the stock version of open office if that helps.

Thanks in advance :)

g_g

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-07-07
Did you try creating a new firefox profile? Press Alt-F2 and type:

```
firefox -Profilemanager
```

then create a new profile, to see if you have the same problem.

---

### Post by gaming_guy on 2010-07-07
Thanks for the reply, but that was one of the first things I tried but it didn't work :(

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-07-09
> **gaming_guy said:**
> Thanks for the reply, but that was one of the first things I tried but it didn't work :(

Then is probably not a problem in Firefox, but with some Gnome settings. A new FF profile would have a clean mimeTypes.rdf file, which determines which application to use in Firefox. 

Unfortunately, I don't know which settings files in Gnome control that.

---

### Post by gaming_guy on 2010-07-11
> **lovinglinux said:**
> Then is probably not a problem in Firefox, but with some Gnome settings. A new FF profile would have a clean mimeTypes.rdf file, which determines which application to use in Firefox. 

Unfortunately, I don't know which settings files in Gnome control that.

Thanks for the reply :)

I ended up reimaging the system as i applied a few months worth of updates and one of them managed to take something out which caused the system to become very unstable.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-07-11
> **gaming_guy said:**
> Thanks for the reply :)

I ended up reimaging the system as i applied a few months worth of updates and one of them managed to take something out which caused the system to become very unstable.

Works fine now?

---

