---
title: "12.04 not as good as 11.10?"
date: 2012-08-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-10
i just upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10, (on a fresh install)
and have experienced all sorts of problems.
it seems almost ever second there is a window popping up saying "sorry, 12.04 has experienced a internal error"
they have been about a verity of different things, the latest being that the weather indicator has crashed.
i noticed a lot of things saying "somethingsomething AMD64" i have an intel chip, so i was wondering what that was about.. did i maybe install the wrong version of something? (my 11.10 was 32bit, just went to 64bit)
 should i send all these error reports?
will things get fixed that way, or should i just try to ignore the errors?
or is there someway to fix this?
all help appreciated..:(

---

### Post by gato2707 on 2012-08-10
sudo apt-get --purge remove apport

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-08-10
For Info on why it is called AMD64
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64)

Intel developed a new 64 bit version Itanium that was not backwards compatible. AMD created a backward compatible version that could run either the 32 bit code or 64 bit code. Intel later created backward compatible versions that work the same as the AMD version.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-08-10
> **gandalf3 said:**
> i just upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10, (on a fresh install)
and have experienced all sorts of problems.
it seems almost ever second there is a window popping up saying "sorry, 12.04 has experienced a internal error"
they have been about a verity of different things, the latest being that the weather indicator has crashed.
........

You need to have **all** available 12.04 updates installed, a lot of issues with the install CD are fixed with the updates.

There will be a 12.04.1 release available in a few months with all these updates already included in it.

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-11
> **dcstar said:**
> You need to have **all** available 12.04 updates installed, a lot of issues with the install CD are fixed with the updates.

There will be a 12.04.1 release available in a few months with all these updates already included in it.

i installed from a .iso file downloaded from the Ubuntu website.
 and i ran the update manager, still a few bugs..:confused:
> For Info on why it is called AMD64
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86-64)

Intel developed a new 64 bit version Itanium that was not backwards  compatible. AMD created a backward compatible version that could run  either the 32 bit code or 64 bit code. Intel later created backward  compatible versions that work the same as the AMD version.
 		                   		  		  		 		 			 				__________________
i read (most of) the wikipedia article,  so AMD64 and intel 64 are almost the same thing?
i have a older CPU, Pentium4 3.2GHZ 64bit, but the page did say it included newer pentium4 CPUs.. 
so these problems and errors that im having should not be related to the CPU?

---

### Post by colin.p on 2012-08-11
I did a new (fresh) install of 12.04 from 10.04 in the early part of May and I must say that the error messages were annoying at first. However they are now becoming less of a problem. I may have had 2 or 3 the past week or so. 

There are a few quirks that need to be ironed out, but by and large, I'd say 12.04 is a keeper, which is good as I don't intend to upgrade for at least a couple years.

---

### Post by Petro Dawg on 2012-08-11
> **gandalf3 said:**
> i just upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10, (on a fresh install)
and have experienced all sorts of problems.
it seems almost ever second there is a window popping up saying "sorry, 12.04 has experienced a internal error"
they have been about a verity of different things, the latest being that the weather indicator has crashed.
i noticed a lot of things saying "somethingsomething AMD64" i have an intel chip, so i was wondering what that was about.. did i maybe install the wrong version of something? (my 11.10 was 32bit, just went to 64bit)
 should i send all these error reports?
will things get fixed that way, or should i just try to ignore the errors?
or is there someway to fix this?
all help appreciated..:(

I had the issue with persistent internal errors when I first installed, after a few weeks of updates the issues seemed to resolve them selves.  Give it some time, and install updates regularly before getting too worried about it.

---

### Post by quadproc on 2012-08-11
> **gandalf3 said:**
> i just upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10, (on a fresh install)
and have experienced all sorts of problems.

An upgrade is mutually exclusive with an fresh install, so which did you do?

My experience has been that upgrades are riddled with problems while fresh installs are much less troublesome.  However, I still find that 12.04 is still fairly buggy and uses Unity - I feel like I am in a rowboat when using it because I can't see where I am going and I have to make a lot of motion to get anything done.  For these reasons I prefer 10.10 for most Ubuntu operations.

Having said all that, I do find that 12.04 is better than any of the 11.xx family.

quadproc

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-11
> An upgrade is mutually exclusive with an fresh install, so which did you do?

i had 11.10, which i had no problems (with the OS. still some issues with various programs, but nothing like this) with, and installed 12.04 on a fresh install, overwriting 11.10.
gradually things seem to be resolving themselves, like the weather indicator is now working all on it's own :) but it still occasionally crashes, freezes, and does inconvenient things in inconvenient times. and there are still a few problems with programs that used to work fine in 11.10, like blender.
it's gotten better, but still a little glitch here or there..

---

### Post by sienile on 2012-08-11
Only time I had any issues like that with 12.04 was when I upgraded a BackTrack 5r2 installation. After a fresh install with downloaded updates, I've seen that error screen maybe twice in a month. And I've only seen it when messing around with a new program not approved for Ubuntu. Odd thing is, it never actually crashes, just says it's about to.

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-12
the strange thing here is that when i get an error, it usually doesn't crash. but it still crashes, just no error when it does. (i haven't noticed it crashing at any particular time, like last crash was when i was ejecting an external HDD, but the time before that i was install/downloading playonlinux, and before that, it was some problem with the weather indicator..)
but i haven't got an error for two/three days now, so seems to be getting better..

---

### Post by sienile on 2012-08-12
Sounds like you had a software issue that was fixed by an update. Were you able to install PlayOnLinux again successfully? Have you ejected the drive that gave the error again without a crash?

When I experienced a lot of crashes, I didn't give it a few days to see if it worked itself out. I just reinstalled with the "download updates during install" option and everything was resolved.

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-12
yep, everything that it crashed doing one, it's done successfully some other time. but it still crashes from time to time.. seems a little random to me..:confused:
 i was just poking around in the update manager to see if there was any more updates, (none)
when i found in settings
"
Install updates from:
Important security updates  (pricice-security)
Recommended updates  (precise-updates)
Pre-released updates  (precise-proposed)
Unsupported updates  (precise-backports)
"
"pre-released updates" was unchecked by default.
when i checked it, and updated the cache, 69 more updates came up.
what are these updates, and are they stuff i should install to help fix some of the crashes?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-08-12
Pre-release means you are testing the changes the will be releasing shortly. Unless you have specific issues or want to be the first with the newest changes, you probably should not have the pre-release updates checked. I do have them checked and have not had any major issues so far. Part of the reason I checked the changes was a printer issue where it would only print one page & the changes were in pre-release.

---

### Post by GeneralCody on 2012-08-12
Why did you do an upgrade if you already had a "clean install" of 11.10?

My experience is that it is always best to install any operating system from scratch after formatting the disk.

But, did you do any BIOS tinkering between installs?
This also can lead to strange errors...

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-12
> Pre-release means you are testing the changes the will be releasing  shortly. Unless you have specific issues or want to be the first with  the newest changes, you probably should not have the pre-release updates  checked. I do have them checked and have not had any major issues so  far. Part of the reason I checked the changes was a printer issue where  it would only print one page & the changes were in pre-release.Thanks! (i'll leave them unchecked for now)
> Why did you do an upgrade if you already had a "clean install" of 11.10?

My experience is that it is always best to install any operating system from scratch after formatting the disk.

But, did you do any BIOS tinkering between installs?
This also can lead to strange errors...i didn't do an upgrade, i installed it overwriting anything on the disk.
the reason i installed 12.04 is because it's newer and supposedly better, and i wanted to see for myself, and use it if it was. (i was going to reinstall 11.10 at some point to go to 64bit anyway, then they announced 12.04 as stable, so i figured, why not?)
not sure what you mean by "BIOS tinkering"
but i installed via USB stick, so i had to do a little (if i assume what you meant correctly).
what i did exactly:

1. from windows, downloaded "ubuntu 64bits" from here[ http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop")
(i noticed the file name ended in AMD64, while the 32 bit ends in i386? i still don't completely understand.. so intel and amd chips can each run both?)

2. got this pendrivelinux installer following these [instructions]("http://www.ubuntu.com/download/help/create-a-usb-stick-on-windows") from [here ]("http://www.pendrivelinux.com/universal-usb-installer-easy-as-1-2-3/#button")

3. installed to USB drive

4. restarted, went into the bios and made the USB stick the default boot device.

5. booted from usb drive and was confronted with a menu that said "run Ubuntu from drive, install Ubuntu on a hard drive," (and two other options that i ddin't read because the menu went away)

6. because the menu disappeared so fast, i unintentionally booted into Ubuntu running on the usb stick.

7. found the installer and ran it, selecting the option "overwrite Ubuntu 11.110" and let it do it's stuff.

8. after the install was complete, it asked to restart, i went into the bios and made the hard drive with grub on it the default boot device.

9. saved changes, and started 12.04

10. received error messages, and failed drivers, made a thread on Ubuntu forums. ;)

11. update manager popped up, clicked install.

12.04 less error messages.

---

### Post by marlow59 on 2012-08-12
I made the same observation the first week I installed 12.04. Actually more and more bugs are fixed every day thanks to the hard work from bug and development staff of the community (I can tell you, I do some bug matching on the launchpad). Anyway, it is highly recommended that you report every problem by checking the "report bug" option, it will help notice, target and fix the bugs you are experiencing.

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-12
thanks.
i will..
and i'd say they are doing a good, job, no errors or crashes yet today  :)

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-12
thanks.
i will..
and i'd say they are doing a good  job, no errors or crashes yet today  :)

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-08-28
oops.. dunno how i double posted the something.. :confused:
things have kind of settled out, but there's still a few things that don't seem right.

one is that the little tags that pop up when scrolling over the icons on the launcher that say what they are are all broken up until you scroll back over them (sometime several times)

two is that i have had issues with the launcher going UNDER some windows when it's supposed to go over (almost every time with Gimp, once or twice with Thunderbird, and maybe once with Blender)

three is i have had three different types of common crashes, the first type being that it lags a lot, artifacts pop up everywhere that will go away when clicked or scrolled by the mouse, but will come back somewhere), and the mouse sometime becomes unresponsive but i can get into a tty if i can time it on a less laggy stretch (i sometimes had this on 11.10, but would recover if i closed all open windows. didn't work in 12.04)
the second type is where it suddenly starts lagging, the hardrive goes on steady activity and it will not redraw anything exept the cursor. i can get into a tty in these kind, and "compiz --replace" will get me back to crash type 1
the third and (hopefully) last is where it will suddenly freeze and nothing will respond, and nothing updates exept the mouse (which still will work), and i cannot get into any tty.
this has happened under a lot of different circumstances, but is consistent on doing it while playing rigsofrods under wine (i can't even wave the mouse when it happens then, because it's stuck in the ror window)
all of these types seem to happen with more than a few applications running, usually something like gimp, inkscape, blender, firefox, thunderbird, and maybe one or two more, sometimes less.
(and psensor, sometimes empathy)

another thing is that when i first installed weather-indicator and psensor, they both crashed maybe two or three times, but were fine after i updated. then like four or five weeks later after no problems, both crashed again.. :confused:
all help appreciated

---

### Post by GeneralCody on 2012-08-29
Well. 12.04 has had some fundamental changes under the hood, and it's like this with any OS in my experience.
Usually I never do a system upgrade on my critical machines before at least a month after initial release.
Then it has had some time to get rid of bugs and other bad insects.

I also use Mac OS X, even if this is totally unacceptable in a Linux community ;-) but the point is that it's just like that over in that camp as well...

Just be patient with that upgrade the next time around!

---

### Post by gandalf3 on 2012-09-01
hmm.. it's getting worse.. six crashes in one day.
could there be something wrong with my graphics card drivers, or maybe the window manager?
:confused:

---

