---
title: "8.0.4 - can you open/preview files in Trash?"
date: 2009-03-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by NorthernSuze on 2009-03-16
I like to scan over the Trash files before I empty the folder.  As it sits with 8.0.4, if I want to double check a file I have to drag it to an open nautilus window in order to preview/open the file.

I have looked at the gconf-edit; googled "viewing files in Trash" and the forum with out finding this question - The good news is - I have no trouble emptying the trash like so many others. <grin>

Hopefully one of you can point me in the right direction as it was a feature of 7.10 I appreciated having.

Thank you 
Suzanne
(and again thank you for all the help I have received over the years from forum members)

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-03-17
I'm running 8.10 right now, but I was running 8.04 before Intrepid was released.  I've never had any problem opening files in the Trash.

---

### Post by NorthernSuze on 2009-03-17
Thank-you for responding to my post. Now I know it is an oddity all my very own!

Only .pdf files will open from my Trash (no preview though). gif, png and jpg's Eye of Gnome viewer says "The given locations contains no images" No other documents will open either.

If I use nautilus to access- ./local/share/Trash/files -I can see the previews and open any type of file or document in the- /files -directory. There is a second directory in Trash- /info -this directory contains files such as test.png.trashinfo. Interesting!

Again thanks mb_webguy
Suzanne

---

### Post by Nano_ext3 on 2009-03-17
Just cp the file on the desktop , then remove it if you wish.  This has always worked for me in that case.

Cheers!

-Nano

---

