---
title: "12.10 slow and lagging"
date: 2013-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bobipod on 2013-01-04
In the past week or so my normally very quick and reliable ubuntu has slowed right down and has become very laggy.  For example when scrolling the page judders to where i want over quite a long time.  Imagine the speed of dial up internet but when scrolling a page!

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-01-04
Try and find out which processes are consuming a lot of CPU time or memory. You can use top.

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2013-01-04
That is run ```
top
``` from the terminal.
What sort of cpu and graphics card do you have?
Run ```
lspci | grep -i vga
``` to find out what your graphics card is.
If your machine is an older one it could just be slow because it an older model, in my experience the latest Ubuntu doesn't run that smooth on older hardware.
Also if you have don't have the right driver or if its not working properly it will work inefficiently and that can cause lag.

Is it just scrolling that is slow or is everything slow in general?
If everything is slow in general and you use are using unity, you could try gnome classic.

---

### Post by HernanLinux93 on 2013-01-04
I had a similar problem with an older style machine, I had to install LXDE and it runs great ...or perhaps it might be an issue with your graphics card
good luck ;)

---

### Post by bobipod on 2013-01-05
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation G86 [GeForce 8400M GS] (rev a1)


This is the graphics card that I have.  What am looking for when i run the TOP command?

The driver i'm using is the recommended driver.

---

### Post by jk3920 on 2013-01-05
Check out this guide..

[https://sites.google.com/site/mtrons/howtos/eeepc-1015pn](https://sites.google.com/site/mtrons/howtos/eeepc-1015pn)

Use the general tweaks for swappiness and for spin-downs of your hard drive. Also  graphic switching if you have integrated graphics. Your best bet is to switch Lubuntu..it is a lot faster than Ubuntu.

[http://mylinuxexplore.blogspot.com/2012/04/ubuntu-1204-vs-xubuntu-1204-vs-kubuntu.html](http://mylinuxexplore.blogspot.com/2012/04/ubuntu-1204-vs-xubuntu-1204-vs-kubuntu.html)

---

### Post by jk3920 on 2013-01-05
To see what drivers you are using..

System settings > software sources > additional drivers

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-01-05
Maybe back to an LTS (12.04)

[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142%3Au-ocqbntw_o&cof=FORID%3A9&ie=UTF-8&q=12.10+slow+and+lagging&as_qdr=all&sa=Google+Search&lang=en](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142%3Au-ocqbntw_o&cof=FORID%3A9&ie=UTF-8&q=12.10+slow+and+lagging&as_qdr=all&sa=Google+Search&lang=en)

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2013-01-05
> **bobipod said:**
> 
This is the graphics card that I have.  What am looking for when i run the TOP command?

You're looking for processes that are using a lot of cpu usage.

Its probably better if you use something like lubuntu.
My favorite release of ubuntu must have been either 10.04 or 10.10, because they were so fast: 30second boot time on my old Pentium4. 
Ubuntu 12.10 takes about 2minutes to boot on my new laptop.
Maybe give lubuntu  a try and see how it goes?

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2013-01-05
> **bobipod said:**
> In the past week or so my normally very quick and reliable ubuntu has slowed right down and has become very laggy...
If a previously quick system suddenly slowed down it's unlikely to be a driver problem, unless you just installed other drivers. Also, the computer must be fast enough to run your current ubuntu version. It did so a few weeks ago, didn't it? Or did you just upgrade to 12.10, causing the problems?

To me it sounds like a program that started eating up all your CPU time (on all cores?).

@jonnyboysmithy: Why is it that we are on opposite sides on the world and yet present on there forums at the same time?

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2013-01-06
> **Impavidus said:**
> If a previously quick system suddenly slowed down it's unlikely to be a driver problem, unless you just installed other drivers. Also, the computer must be fast enough to run your current ubuntu version. It did so a few weeks ago, didn't it? Or did you just upgrade to 12.10, causing the problems?

To me it sounds like a program that started eating up all your CPU time (on all cores?).

@jonnyboysmithy: Why is it that we are on opposite sides on the world and yet present on there forums at the same time?
Maybe because there is a 12hour time difference? 10 at night here = 10 in morning for you, or something like that..
Good point. I didn't read it properly#-oI didn't notice the part where it says it was fine the week before.. Probably need to go to bed earlier.. 

groetjes van  niew zeeland :D

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2013-01-06
I run 12.04 but had to install 12.10 on my wifes machine.  I did some testing on my machine first using virtualbox to see if I could get 12.10 running how she likes.  In virtualbox 12.10 was very very slow compared to other OSs I have.  I changed the Desktop to gnome classic (because that is the environment my wife likes) and the performance increase was amazing.  Try installing the gnome fallback desktop on your 12.10 install and see if it inceases the performance.

---

