---
title: "8.04 sucks, revert to 7.10?"
date: 2008-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-05-30
How can I revert my 8.04 box which is a nightmare back to 7.10?  Thank you.

---

### Post by steveo314 on 2008-05-30
only way.....reinstall....

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-05-30
Ouch.  So I have to reformat the drive to do it?

---

### Post by mrtomservo on 2008-05-30
Probably, I do believe that Linux makes you format the partition you intend to reinstall to.  Did you upgrade to 8.04? On the several computers i've got running 8.04, all the upgrades were disastrous.  The clean installs went great.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-05-30
> **mrtomservo said:**
> Probably, I do believe that Linux makes you format the partition you intend to reinstall to.  Did you upgrade to 8.04? On the several computers i've got running 8.04, all the upgrades were disastrous.  The clean installs went great.

Yessir, I did an upgrade from 7.10.

It went just fine on one of my machines, so I made the mistake of updating this one as well.  It's been a nightmare day in and day out ever since.  I hate myself for doing it.  I even waited a month after the release of 8.04 to do it just in case.  

:(

---

### Post by werries on 2008-05-30
backup your data elsewhere, reformat and install 8.04 fresh, in my opinion. if its still disastrous, either ask for help for specific problems, or revert back to 7.10 at that point with a fresh install.

---

### Post by kooldino on 2008-05-30
> **werries said:**
> backup your data elsewhere, reformat and install 8.04 fresh, in my opinion. if its still disastrous, either ask for help for specific problems, or revert back to 7.10 at that point with a fresh install.

Aside from my mounted drives where I store most of my data, what do I have to back up other than my /home folder?

---

### Post by werries on 2008-05-30
nothing as far as i know. /home should have your required documents im assuming.
everything else can be reinstalled later as far as programs go.

---

