---
title: "10.04: Sometimes screen is flickering for one minute"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by janneman37 on 2010-05-01
Hello,

I installed ubuntu 10.04 and it works fine, but sometimes my laptop-screen is flickering for one minute. After a minute fickering it is normal back... When its flickering i can still work. strange...
I have a Fujitsu Siemens Pi1536, with ATI mobility radeon X1400.
What can be the problem?
Thanks.

---

### Post by Deathspawn on 2010-05-03
I am getting this too... seems to happen when I am using like a lot of CPU in a program. Graphics Card: Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller. Thought I was going to try downgrading the kernal, but cannot seem to find a kernal older than the one I have now. (In Synaptic anyways.)

But yea, same issue, it just looks like if you were watching TV and someone bumped into the cable cord and it went all weird for a second.

---

### Post by vap0rvap0r on 2010-05-03
ya im gettin the same thing on a dell studio 17

---

### Post by ve3tru on 2010-05-03
I get the same thing not so bad it flickers for a  second every couple of minutes.
Dell Inspiron 1545. I read some where its to do with Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset. They said if you turn off your power save 
  	 	 	 	 	 	  echo "i915.powersave=0" | sudo tee /etc/modprobe.d/i915-disable-powersave.conf sudo update-initramfs -u This would fix it, but it didn't work for me.

---

### Post by dmzamora on 2010-05-04
I also experience the same... it seems like a common bug (I suppose) in 10.04?  My Dell Vostro 1014 was running 9.10 before the upgrade I didn't encounter this problem.

I hope this gets fixed.

---

### Post by AXBX7C on 2010-05-04
Hello all!

I'm running Ubuntu 10.04 on an Asus UL30a. Since upgrading from 9.10 I  occasionally experience a weird flickering of the screen as described here... 
It seems totally  random and it did neither occur under 9.10 nor Windows 7 (At least I  can't remember). So that pretty much excludes any hardware issues,  right? Could it be a driver problem?

It's not an overall annoying thing but sometimes, when it happens more  frequently, I get worried...

I'd appreciate any help! Thank you!

---

### Post by AXBX7C on 2010-05-05
**  Screen Keeps Flickering **

 If you have an Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML card, your  screen may flicker every 5-10 seconds. To prevent this: 
 
[LIST]
[*] System -> Administration -> Advanced -> Service  Manager
[*] Uncheck "Detect RANDR (monitor) changes"
[/LIST]

Source: [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Lucid](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Lucid)

---

### Post by h4x0rmx on 2010-05-09
> **AXBX7C said:**
> **  Screen Keeps Flickering **

 If you have an Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML card, your  screen may flicker every 5-10 seconds. To prevent this: 
 
[LIST]
[*] System -> Administration -> Advanced -> Service  Manager
[*] Uncheck "Detect RANDR (monitor) changes"
[/LIST]

Source: [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Lucid](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Lucid)

I don't get "advanced" under "administration"

---

### Post by cake nom nom on 2010-05-18
> **AXBX7C said:**
> **  Screen Keeps Flickering **

 If you have an Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML card, your  screen may flicker every 5-10 seconds. To prevent this: 
 
[LIST]
[*] System -> Administration -> Advanced -> Service  Manager
[*] Uncheck "Detect RANDR (monitor) changes"
[/LIST]

Source: [http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Lucid](http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Ubuntu:Lucid)


lol yeah where do you see advanced dude

---

### Post by h4x0rmx on 2010-05-18
System -> Administration -> Advanced is only available on KDE desktops and the proposed solution is little likely to work.
For what I've read, there's a bug on Lucid with the Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset, and it hasn't been fixed, so we're out of luck.
If anyone else knows more about this, please let us know!

---

### Post by cake nom nom on 2010-05-19
bump for a solution:-k

---

### Post by h4x0rmx on 2010-06-03
Did the last update just fixed the problem?

---

### Post by derande on 2010-06-03
no.
i updated today and it still occurs for 1/10 of a second every few minutes here.

---

### Post by h4x0rmx on 2010-06-03
True!
It's still there! :(

---

### Post by witeshark17 on 2010-06-03
The fact that is didn't exist in 9.10 suggests that the cause will be isolated and resolved IMO. :popcorn:

---

### Post by dbodner on 2010-06-09
I have an Asus UL30A with an Intel Series 4 chipset and i'm experiencing the same problems.  I'm glad I found this thread, as I was in the process of contacting Asus support about getting replacement hardware.

---

### Post by SleepCat on 2010-06-10
I've got the same problem. I'm on a Lenovo Thinkpad T500. :/




Oh, and since i changed from Custom settings in the visual effects to none (to test whether the flickering on the screen would stop then), I doesn't want to go back to custom settings. When I check back on it, it jumps to Extra.

---

### Post by WhoSayIn on 2010-07-03
same problem here, dell inspiron 1545, never seen this before. using ubuntu since the version 8.10 on this laptop. it only occurs on 10.04

---

### Post by Whisp3r on 2010-07-03
Same problem here still. I eventually said heck with it and dropped back to 9.10. I needed reliability and Ubuntu can't deliver it with this screen flickering on my laptop. Until they fix it, I'm sitting happily with 9.10. 

Doesn't matter what I'm doing, what level graphics I'm running, etc. I've tried every solution posted to these forums and nothin' works.

A major kink in the war on converting my wife to Linux. :P

---

### Post by h4x0rmx on 2010-07-29
I just updated and thought the flickering was gone... but it's still here!!!
Are you guys still experiencing the same problem?

---

### Post by h4x0rmx on 2010-10-12
I just uploaded to 10.10... I haven't noticed the flickering, but I might be speaking too soon.
Anyways, I have another problem... the screen doesn't update... it's kind of hard to describe, so I've attached a screenshot of the problem... at the time the screenshot was taken all the windows were supposed to be minimized.
Have any of you had similar problems?

**[COLOR="DarkRed"]EDIT:[/COLOR] The problem was compiz and not the drivers or anything else. However, did the upgrade fix our problems?**

---

### Post by clockworktri on 2011-01-10
I have a dell inspiron 1545 as well, and get the screen flickers every once in a while. Does anyone have a solution for this???

---

### Post by wirawan0 on 2011-08-02
> **h4x0rmx said:**
> System -> Administration -> Advanced is only available on KDE desktops and the proposed solution is little likely to work.
For what I've read, there's a bug on Lucid with the Intel Corporation Mobile 4 Series Chipset, and it hasn't been fixed, so we're out of luck.
If anyone else knows more about this, please let us know!

Where did you read this? Can you point out some reference? I have occasional screen flickering as well as random "black screen of death" on my laptop when it's resumed from sleep:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/777956](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/777956)

I wonder if it is related to Intel driver in stock Ubuntu 10.04 variant.

---

