---
title: "8.01 install troubles"
date: 2008-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dunover on 2008-05-07
I was running a dual boot of 7. something and windoz 2k... I decided to format the disk 58 gb disk and install fresh copies of newest ubuntu...and still dual boot.

I install win2k first...everything fine.... went to install 8.01 and it freezes at "partition manager" so I ran g-parted and that freezes... so I tried to install 7. again...that freezes..... so now stuck..I am trying to reformat again with partition logic and hope it all works....

If not why do you think it is giving trouble?

Thanks!
Cori

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-05-07
> **Dunover said:**
> I was running a dual boot of 7. something and windoz 2k... I decided to format the disk 58 gb disk and install fresh copies of newest ubuntu...and still dual boot.

I install win2k first...everything fine.... went to install 8.01 and it freezes at "partition manager" so I ran g-parted and that freezes... so I tried to install 7. again...that freezes..... so now stuck..I am trying to reformat again with partition logic and hope it all works....

If not why do you think it is giving trouble?

Thanks!
Cori

HI and did you check the cd for errors? Also could you tell us some system specs.

---

### Post by Dunover on 2008-05-08
More info

AMD Athlon 64 X2 Dual Core processor 3800+
MAch Speed MSNV 939 MB
2.96 GB Ram
NVIDIA GeForce 8400 GS grapbic card

Update on install

This is long 
I was running the 7. ubuntu with a dual boot to win2k for several months with no real issues....

Yesterday I did the live cd and the new ubuntu 8.02 64 worked perfect. so decided to install. I *have* to due to special programs needed ..to do a dual boot with wn2k. and decided to format the hard drive and make everything fresh.

First I formated the hd with the win cd install and installed win2k. Then put in the ubuntu cd and tried to install, it kept freezing at "partition manager"

so attempted g-parted to make 2 partitions, it froze a couple of times but was able to create them... new problem....tried to install ubunut but it would failed half way through...one error was a bad cd, so burned another....and then hard drive would not boot at all or allow Ubuntu to load... it would stick at post...just before selecting boot order <sigh>
Tried this a few times...

So back to the drawing board formated again. with wincd,..installed w2k. got that done...and tried again with ubuntu but got stuck at partitions manager and my lack of knowledge on guided or manual ( that area needs some better instructions....it is hard to figure out!! )... did some research and saw that I need two partitions previously to install dual boot.... so did everything I could to shrink the main partition with wni2k on it. G-parted would not resize down the drive more than a few mb. The slider would not resize, nor manual by number... Looked at other programs no luck....the drive would not shrink... so at 1:00 am gave up and selected on the ubuntu install disk  "install with in windows"  which works perfectly and installed and runs fine... EXCEPT I get alot of failures and missing items when attempting to install and use Virtual box.... my guess it has something to to do with being the way ubuntu is installed?

So any guesses why I could not get a good partition and get the install done.....it seemed to me that win2k formated the NFS or something simular in a way that ubuntu did not like it?  But g-parted did not make the hard disk bootable..

As you can tell spent HOURS trying to figure it all out....  I am "ok" with the install with in windows as long as I can get virtual box to work?

Any ideas help, hand holding??  am somewhat new..but a great fan!
Detailed instructions would be great!!
Thanks!
Corisa

---

### Post by Dunover on 2008-05-08
is this thread dead? Should I repost new?  Any information on how to successfully install a dual boot?

Thanks!
COrisa

---

### Post by mardawi on 2008-05-08
I don't think your problem is with dual booting. I would do an md5 checksum on the iso image or let the CD check for errors itself.

You can also check if gparted has a problem by using it's live CD to partition the HD before installation. I did face this problem before with 7.04, the gparted version that was included had a problem with my HD so i had to use a newer version.
[http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php)

I hope that helps!

---

