---
title: "14.04: &quot;Ubuntu software center - fix broken dependencies&quot; destroys the entire system"
date: 2016-06-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by slk5 on 2016-06-07
Hi friends!
No words to describe what i'm feeling. 
6 minutes of what seems like safe operation destroys my current ubuntu 14.04 desktop completely. 

History: I wanted to check some software in Ubuntu software center, wich i not use often because Xterm is my usual work place. 
After start, USC ask me to "repair dependencies". After little thinking i said "Ok, go" .... process started with progress bar. 
After 2-3 minutes in "Launcher" starts disappearing some icons ... and after 6 minutes process was completed.  
I started notice, that something not right. Icons disappeared and i can't find some of software. 
After reboot, system not starts at all.

I'm using 'mdadm' for software RAID and 'cryptsetup' for some volumes. 
I started in "repair" mode and after examination i found that 'mdadm' and 'cryptsetup' was removed.  
After assembling root directory i was able to see apt/history.log and you know what?   
There was Installed 18 packets and was removed 539, including mdadm, cryptsetup, gnome, xserver and (funny enough :) ) software-center !

I'm a software developer and i have all backups, but now i need 2 or 3 days sorting out, to get my workplace back.  :(

This was at log record start .....
" Commandline: aptdaemon role='role-fix-broken-depends' sender=':1.1024' "

regards, SL

---

### Post by ventrical on 2016-06-07
Hi,

You can try

```

sudo dpkg --configure -a

```

and or

```

sudo apt-get install -f

```

and then try to reinstall your desktop..

---

### Post by slk5 on 2016-06-07
Thanks for fast response, but i already tried

apt-get all the time responding with big list of libraries and text ....
"The following packages no longer required:
...........................................................................
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them" :)

And even if dpkg will install them, no garanties that all will work as in the past.

regards, SL

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-06-07
Yes, unfortunately the system software doesn't know how to properly fix broken dependencies.  
I just recently had a similar problem installing a bunch of freeware.  Some of the libraries needed were missing, even though I downloaded the files with recommendations and suggestions both turned on.  Anyways, since the libraries were missing, some parts couldn't be configured and the installs partially failed.  The programs still run, but apt and gdebi and synaptic and the software center all complain about broken-ness.  

When I use apt-get -f install, as it suggests, it prompts to REMOVE too much stuff, including things that I want and need.  So it's definately not a good technique to resolve broken stuff.  A similar problem happens in Synaptic and probably in the other package managers as well.  

Unfortunately, I believe your system is partially destroyed, just like you thought.  
I don't know what the best course of action would be except to try and rescue your essential personal files and copy them off to flash drives and then reinstall Ubuntu from scratch after erasing the entire partition using a LiveDVD boot of gParted (perhaps on a bootable flash drive via uNetBootIn).  Sorry

---

