---
title: "12.04 volume maxed at login"
date: 2012-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-05-02
using hdmi audio via my gtx 550 ti gpu
when i login my volume is at 100% but it is set at 30% (according to the applet)
when i lower the vole it drops to what the applet says
anyone know a command to set the volume at login to the applets volume?

---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2012-05-02
What you describe is exactly the same as a bug I filed back in 2010:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/598308](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/598308)

I have yet to find a solution, but there are some possible solutions listed in the bugs comments.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-05-02
running either of these scripts at login works
```
#!/bin/sh
VOL=`amixer get Master | sed 's/back /\n/;s/ \[/\n/' | tail -2 | head -1`
amixer set Master $(($VOL+1)) > /dev/null
amixer set Master $VOL

```or (simulates pressing volume keys on keyboard ** xdotool is not installed by default)
```
#!/bin/sh
xdotool key XF86AudioLowerVolume
xdotool key XF86AudioRaiseVolume

```

---

### Post by buddyd16 on 2012-05-02
excellent thanks for the scripts, I will make sure to give them a try.

Does this take care of the login sound playing at max level or does this script run after that sound clip plays?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-05-03
before or during (determined at random)
you could make the login sound play in the script to make it go before
```
#!/bin/sh
VOL=`amixer get Master | sed 's/back /\n/;s/ \[/\n/' | tail -2 | head -1` 
amixer set Master $(($VOL+1)) > /dev/null 
amixer set Master $VOL
/usr/bin/canberra-gtk-play --id="desktop-login" --description="GNOME Login"

```simply add to start up and remove the login sound from startup since it will be in the  script

---

### Post by ubiquitin.jf on 2012-05-03
I too am having this problem but these scripts do not work as my device (HDMI out through a HD5770) isn't visible in amixer. Any ideas?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-05-03
not even the xdotool script?
how do you control your volume? can you?

---

### Post by ubiquitin.jf on 2012-05-03
It's all present and correct in the applet and sound settings but there's no sign of it on amixer, which is bizarre.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-05-03
```
pacmd set-sink-volume 0 3500
```
does that affect your volume?

---

### Post by ubiquitin.jf on 2012-05-04
Yes! That's perfect - I'll add it to a startup script. Thanks!

---

