---
title: "16.04 Recovery Mode randomly resets and is troublesome to use"
date: 2016-12-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bits128 on 2016-12-20
So every once in a while Ubuntu does it's random updates and breaks my Nvidia kernel module so I have to re-install it. To do so I enter recovery mode and run the Nvidia installer. Not a big deal. If someone knows off-hand how I could avoid this please tell me, otherwise ignore this issue I'm mostly fine with having to reinstall the driver every once in a while.

The core issue is once I go into recovery mode it gets frustrating. I get the recovery menu (which is visually broken showing the top highlighted choice as the last log line in the startup logs). I go down and select root prompt (virtually nothing else works on this screen works or does anything). I get to the root prompt. Now I have roughly 30-60s (though I've never timed it precisely) to do things before what seems like "the rest of the system" finishes loading. During this time everything works fine but then suddenly it streams a bunch of green startup logs in whatever I'm doing, and drops me back at the recovery menu (but not really). I'm still in the root terminal and if I press enter, it paints in the middle of the screen my PS1 and I can type other commands etc. But the recovery menu is listening to my keystrokes too, and says that I'm going to exit recovery mode and have a full boot.

The main focus is this weird timeout until the rest of my system "comes up". The most interesting clue I have right now is, when I first go to the root prompt my keyboard layout is incorrect (QWERTY), and when it flips out and resets/goes to next runlevel or whatever it's doing, then I have my correct keyboard layout again.

I have no real idea what's going on. I've poked around in logs and can't really come up with anything. Any help?
Thanks

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2016-12-20
> **bits128 said:**
> So every once in a while Ubuntu does it's random updates and breaks my Nvidia kernel module so I have to re-install it. To do so I enter recovery mode and run the Nvidia installer. Not a big deal. If someone knows off-hand how I could avoid this please tell me, otherwise ignore this issue I'm mostly fine with having to reinstall the driver every once in a while.

Thanks
Why Not just use the Drivers from Ubuntu: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

---

### Post by bits128 on 2017-01-05
Same reason you use anything from outside repos. Because the repos have really old stuff in them :)

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-01-05
Well As you wish then....you asked how to avoid this...I gave a sensible suggestion.
What is your definition of Old?
```
apt policy nvidia-375 
nvidia-375:
  Installed: 375.26-0ubuntu0~gpu16.10.1
  Candidate: 375.26-0ubuntu0~gpu16.10.1
  Version table:
 *** 375.26-0ubuntu0~gpu16.10.1 500
        500 http://ppa.launchpad.net/graphics-drivers/ppa/ubuntu yakkety/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status

```

Cheers

---

