---
title: "10.10 Installs, wont boot."
date: 2011-01-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Rivers48 on 2011-01-13
Hey,

I have just installed 10.10 along side winXP on a mashine. The install went fine and smooth and when i was prompted to restart i did and it just booted into Windows. 

Obviously this means that there is something wrong with the Grub install that happened. 

To explain i have windows installed on C: which is a 500gb HDD and i installed Ubuntu on D: a 200gb HD which i partitioned into 80gb (Ubuntu) / 120gb (has 20gb of files).

I have had a previous version of Ubuntu on the mashine before and i think it happened last time aswell  (i cant really remember) could it be because i have installed it on the 200gb HDD not the 500gb Primary HDD? 

Any help regarding this would be greatly appreciated! :)

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-01-13
Where did you install grub to and which hard drive is set to boot first in bios?

---

### Post by Idefix82 on 2011-01-13
You probably installed Grub on the same hard drive as Ubuntu, but the BIOS doesn't even check that drive. It checks C: first, finds a boot loader and is happy. To see whether that's what's happening, try changing the boot order in the BIOS and tell it to try booting from D: first. To enter the BIOS configuration, you need to press a certain key right after the computer switches on, before the Windows boot screen comes up. You should be told which key to press, it's often either F1 or F2 or F10.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-01-13
Rivers48,

Welcome to the Ubuntu forums. 

If  changing the boot order doesn't fix it, to get an idea of what happened, please boot the Ubuntu installation CD/LiveCD, open Firefox and go the to following site. Download the boot info script and post the contents of the generated file, RESULTS.txt. 

This file will provide us with information on your boot files and most likely allow us to give you a solution.

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net")

---

### Post by Rivers48 on 2011-01-13
Thanks, that worked.

Another question though. I have a Z-Com wireless usb and i am trying to get that working. I know how to but the synaptic package manager wont let me add a cd-rom to it so i cant get ndiswrapper on there to install the drivers for the usb... any help? is there a way i can just rip the package off of the disk without the SPM? It says its "unable to mount CD" when i try to add the cd to it

---

