---
title: "20.04 Auto sign in"
date: 2020-07-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mountainman70 on 2020-07-24
I have just upgraded from Ubuntu 18.04 Mate to Ubuntu 20.04. Everything seems to be working fine except for signing in. I have to enter password at every boot. All my settings for laptop and desktop show for automatically sign in. Is this a bug in 20.04?

---

### Post by pbear42 on 2020-07-25
Auto login works for me in 20.04 (main edition and several flavors), but that's direct install not upgrade.  What happens if you hit Enter without inputting the password?

---

### Post by mountainman70 on 2020-07-26
> **pbear42 said:**
> Auto login works for me in 20.04 (main edition and several flavors), but that's direct install not upgrade.  What happens if you hit Enter without inputting the password?

Yes on a clean install auto sign-in works fine except some of my old previous add-ons don't work. So I cloned this drive again to see how just the upgrade would do. All my add-ons work except for not being able to auto sign-in. I now get the sign-in screen and just hitting enter demands a password. I have tried several different setting I have found on searching but so far nothing works.

---

### Post by mountainman70 on 2020-07-30
I finally had time to work on my problem and found the fix. It turned out to be real simple. I took my 18.04 hd and updated everything and then used software updater to install 20.04. When it got to the end and ask if I wanted to "keep or update the custom.conf file" I clicked Keep. Now three out of 4 computers now automatically sign in without password. Still have old laptop to go. Hope this helps someone else.

---

