---
title: "10.04 duplicate user accounts"
date: 2011-04-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-04-12
I am setting up the laptop for the family to use.  I have my own user account, which is all set up nice and pretty.  I need to make 3 new accounts for the rest of the family. 
Since my user account is all set up, I am hoping there is a way to copy this account's configuration (customized theme, compiz settings, edited menus, installed applications ie awn, etc...) to a new account.  This would save a great amount of time for me.
Thanks.

---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-04-12
"compizconfig settings manager" allowed me to export the settings from my main account, and individually import them into each new account.  solved.  i wonder if there is a way to do this through the terminal?

To share wallpapers between accounts, I made a new folder in my home directory, and used right click>permissions to give other users access.  I copied a few folder worth of wallpapers over and logged into each account to set their backgrounds.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-04-12
You could copy all the hidden files and folders from your first user account to the new ones then run ```
sudo chown -R user2:user2 /home/user2
sudo chmod -R 755 /home/user2
```which will change the ownership of each home folder to the appropriate username, and then change permissions to the ubuntu default of 755, ie **read/write/execute** for user, and **read/execute** for group and others.

Repeat for user3, user4, etc.

---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-04-12
thanks this looks like a simple way of doing it!  I'm off to work, will try it again later tonight.


Now I have bigger fish to fry.  While setting up wallpapers on the other accounts, ubuntu froze up and i had  to hard reboot. Now after a reboot my hard drive light is on steady as  if the disk is continually being read/written to...unbelievable..  

i guess I  will have to abort my original mission in order to troubleshoot how this  seemingly simple procedure has sent my hard drive towards meltdown...

---

### Post by misterbiskits on 2011-04-13
> **ajgreeny said:**
> You could copy all the hidden files and folders from your first user account to the new ones then run ```
sudo chown -R user2:user2 /home/user2
sudo chmod -R 755 /home/user2
```which will change the ownership of each home folder to the appropriate username, and then change permissions to the ubuntu default of 755, ie **read/write/execute** for user, and **read/execute** for group and others.
Repeat for user3, user4, etc.

I appreciate the help but it's not working out.  I get permission denied error regarding .gvfs when I try to chown, and changes I'd expect aren't applying.
On top of that Ubuntu keeps crashing as I switch between users.  That's going to thrill the family if it keeps up.  
Sigh, everything with this operating system has to be such a process of troubleshooting and effort.  Forget it.  I've spent more time googling this than its worth - I'll just set up the damn accounts individually.
Thanks anyways.

---

