---
title: "10.04.2 LTS Alternate Installer endless loop on disc label"
date: 2011-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sboisen on 2011-05-12
I'm trying to install 10.04.2 on a Dell machine with no current OS. I finally found the thread that said to use the alternate installer if you have a RAID: so i'm using ubuntu-10.04.2-alternate-i386.iso, burned using Roxio on my (different) windows box. 

I go through the early installer steps ok, get to partitioning, choose guided resize (potential tangent: first time this modified partitions #6 and #7, second time it was just "use entire disk"). Then "installing base system", then a dialog that says:

[INDENT]Please insert the disk labeled "Ubuntu 10.04.2 LTS _Lucid Lynx_ - release i386 (20110211.d) in '/cdrom/' and press enter[/INDENT]

Well, the disk is already in the drive, and the installer has previously claimed it's reading from /cdrom. Reinserting it doesn't change anything. My only choices are <Continue> or <Go Back>, both of which display the same message. So i can't get past this, or escape, or do anything other than power down. 

Looking at the disk on my Win machine, it appears to be labeled "Ubuntu 10.04.2 L" (can't tell if that's truncated or not). 

Does the installer really demand a certain label on the disc to succeed?? Any suggestions for how to successfully install in this situation?

Update: just to be sure, i checked the md5sum, and it's correct.

---

### Post by smartboyathome on 2011-05-14
I don't know what program you used to burn it, but perhaps you should try a different one, just in case and to make sure its able to be reproduced. :)

---

### Post by sboisen on 2011-05-14
Burned on Windows with Roxio. I guess i can try a different program to see if that changes anything.

---

### Post by bergamot on 2011-06-14
Did you get anywhere with this?

I'm having this problem also, with 10.04.2 alternate i386 CD.

I burned it using Ubuntu's Brasero. After the first CD I burned produced this error, I burned another one, with the same results.

I also checked the MD5 sum and it was fine.

I'm gonna try the DVD image now, and see if that makes any difference...

---

### Post by sboisen on 2011-06-14
I wasn't able to get around this problem.

Instead, at the suggestion of a local guru, i used the minimal installer:

> If he has a working network driver, good network connection, and some patience, then he could try the minimal iso.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD).  After the kernel/initrd is booted, you do not need the CD at all.


This was its own trial: all the components are downloaded from the network, and then you have to install the desktop and other components. Initially i wound up installing on the wrong partition, so i had to redo everything. 

At the end of the day, i did get a working installation. But it was way too painful.

---

