---
title: "[9.10] Honestly - why is sound muted by default?"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BarisBlaq on 2009-11-04
Because it's muted..

I am not an Ubuntu / Linux basher, I actually enjoy free (as in beer or as in speech). Last windoz I used was 98, then I had a mac for some time, and been on Ubuntu since 9.04

I am also spreading the word and cloning Karmic live cds for friends, and trying to help them as much as the noob I am can, and get them a taste of freedom.

I spent the last half an hour on the phone with one of my friends, trying to solve the "no sound" issue he had after installing Karmic I gave him.

The solution was of course (I am ashamed to have forgotten this in the first place) that sound is muted by default in a Karmic install. So I told him to right click sound icon and check off mute.

This was after half an hour going through things like adding lines to alsa config, removing pulseaudio, downloading propriety drivers, etc..

As I said initially, I am not an Ubuntu / Linux basher. But I am really pissed. Maybe I am also noob and stupid, I accept that.

But why would you set mute sound as default ffs??? It only takes an IQ above room temperature to set the default to enabled. I mean come on..

Sorry for the outburst, but I really am pissed, maybe it's my fault, please bear with me.

But I do insist there is some room for improvement right there..

Cheers

---

### Post by BarisBlaq on 2009-11-04
I was a troll in my teens, so self bump here.

But then again, I'm not sure how to raise this as an issue. Is it a bug? no.. Just uncheck mute.

My 2 cents - if Ubuntu is pissing off people who think Ubuntu is cool (like meself) over stupidest things like this, no doubt why people are still paying the redmond cons.

Peace

---

### Post by Szise on 2009-11-04
True, only at the beginning? for me from time to time is &quot;mute&quot; apparently with no reason, is reseting somehow.

---

### Post by arrancaru on 2009-11-06
For me always started mute, really piss me off, and don't know how to fix.

---

### Post by BatPenguin on 2009-11-08
Yes, for me too. Whenever I boot, I have to go into alsamixer and unmute master volume. Really annoying. Any ideas how to fix this, anybody?

---

### Post by eli_12345 on 2009-11-09
My Xubuntu 9.10 got the same issue - sound was always muted after booting the system. I just came across an easy solution that finally worked: comment out the line that contains 'mute_and_zero_levels "$TARGET_CARD" || EXITSTATUS=1' in the file /etc/init.d/alsa-utils (it was line 378 on my system, just add # to make that line a comment, that's it).

:-)

---

### Post by Elviswind on 2009-11-13
I'm now running Xubuntu 9.10 and had the sound muting problem, but I was also suffering from crappy sound . . .  high frequencies did not sound correct.  I tried the edit to /etc/rc.local and that sort of worked to correct the muting problem, but the sound was still crummy.

What I found was, and I think this will work better in Xubuntu than other Ubuntu, that removing Pulseaudio solved all the problems.  

Look at post #4 in this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1313253") and give it a whirl.  Note: Becuase I'm running Xubuntu I didn't need to follow the last couple steps to install another mixer program . . . the one included with Xfce still works just fine.  :p

---

### Post by suniyo on 2009-11-13
Found any solution guys? I have this problem too...

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-11-13
This thread seems to have your answers - [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/352732]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/352732")

---

### Post by BatPenguin on 2009-11-13
> **suniyo said:**
> Found any solution guys? I have this problem too...

I still have it. Eli_12345's solution did not work for me.

---

### Post by ed-koala on 2009-11-13
Oh, that thread goes into a lot of tech-savvy stuff, what you are looking for is further down, around post 25 or so onward, about disabling pulseaudio.  Most likely your solution.

---

### Post by BatPenguin on 2009-11-14
> **ed-koala said:**
> Oh, that thread goes into a lot of tech-savvy stuff, what you are looking for is further down, around post 25 or so onward, about disabling pulseaudio.  Most likely your solution.

Yes, that would probably do it but that's not really a solution -  disabling the default sound system sound for  solving something like this, sounds too harsh.

---

### Post by BatPenguin on 2009-11-29
> **BatPenguin said:**
> Yes, that would probably do it but that's not really a solution -  disabling the default sound system sound for  solving something like this, sounds too harsh.

Well, I have a "solution" that works but it's also driving me crazy at the same time.

Running

/usr/bin/amixer -q set Master 800% unmute

on the command line (whatever percentage will do of course) will unmute the sound. However, I'm NOT able to automate this. I've made a little .sh script that runs this, it works fine when run (I have a shortcut for it on the desktop now), but setting it in Preferences -> Startup Applications does not run it. Or at least the sound is not unmuted. Any ideas?

The script is simply:

#!/bin/bash
/usr/bin/amixer -q set Master 800% unmute
 
Set to executable, named unmute.sh

Any ideas why this won't run or how I might be able to automate it?

---

### Post by domi007 on 2010-03-10
> **BatPenguin said:**
> Well, I have a "solution" that works but it's also driving me crazy at the same time.

Running

/usr/bin/amixer -q set Master 800% unmute

on the command line (whatever percentage will do of course) will unmute the sound. However, I'm NOT able to automate this. I've made a little .sh script that runs this, it works fine when run (I have a shortcut for it on the desktop now), but setting it in Preferences -> Startup Applications does not run it. Or at least the sound is not unmuted. Any ideas?

The script is simply:

#!/bin/bash
/usr/bin/amixer -q set Master 800% unmute
 
Set to executable, named unmute.sh

Any ideas why this won't run or how I might be able to automate it?


Try to add it to your /etc/rc.local script.

DOMy

---

