---
title: "10.04 to 15.10 ubuntu upgrade shut down problem Couldn't find"
date: 2015-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-10-28
Hope T-Day was good. Note on 11-11-15 I installed a one Terrabyte WD. ;) That cured the shut down problem but still get the hazed over monitor now described on another thread/11-17-15 this thread was marked Solved. Can't be sure what's causes my hazed over monitor that pops up.

this is a copy of launchpad follows but as of 11-17-15 this thread was marked Solved or until time permits me to rebuild what's left of a not functioning maxtor 750g. Koym admits to not finding the Forum's sub guide telling how to do things like marking a thread solved. 

```
On my cloned mirus AMED-64 PC housing a maxtor 750g, a maxed out 80g and 120 g seagate [disconnected] this week I upgraded Kubuntu 10.04 to 15.10, which had a shut down problem followed by Libre Office 5, which would not save documents.

on about 10-23-15 +/- 6-8 pm, Ubuntu Forum lost my ken78724 upgrade thread which was titled "10.04 to 15.10 ubuntu upgrade shut down problem" Oddly the Forum copy of that thread "Has been lost?"

This afternoon immediately after doing a terminal "Sudo apt-get update" and Sudo apt-get upgrade, and this several "mysql" terminal commands [which I cannot cite], auto notices did autolaunchpad problem submission. I cannot explain further.

Thanks for all that you do.

ken78724 - a 76 yr old activist

ProblemType: Package
DistroRelease: Ubuntu 15.10
Package: mysql-server-5.6 5.6.27-0ubuntu1
ProcVersionSignature: Ubuntu 4.2.0-16.19-generic 4.2.3
Uname: Linux 4.2.0-16-generic x86_64
ApportVersion: 2.19.1-0ubuntu4
Architecture: amd64
Date: Wed Oct 28 15:20:12 2015
ErrorMessage: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
InstallationDate: Installed on 2015-10-25 (3 days ago)
InstallationMedia: Ubuntu 15.10 "Wily Werewolf" - Release amd64 (20151021)
Logs.var.log.daemon.log:

MySQLConf.etc.mysql.conf.d.mysql.cnf: [mysql]
MySQLConf.etc.mysql.conf.d.mysqldump.cnf:
 [mysqldump]
 quick
 quote-names
 max_allowed_packet     = 16M
MySQLConf.etc.mysql.mysql.conf.d.mysqld.safe.syslog.cnf:
 [mysqld_safe]
 syslog
MySQLVarLibDirListing: ['mysql', 'ib_logfile1', 'ibdata1', 'debian-5.1.flag', 'debian-5.6.flag', 'ib_logfile0', 'mysql_upgrade_info']
ProcCmdline: BOOT_IMAGE=/boot/vmlinuz-4.2.0-16-generic root=UUID=c3d97030-c966-4676-b2e9-2ad5c108876f ro quiet splash vt.handoff=7
RelatedPackageVersions:
 dpkg 1.18.2ubuntu5
 apt  1.0.10.2ubuntu1
SourcePackage: mysql-5.6
Title: package mysql-server-5.6 5.6.27-0ubuntu1 failed to install/upgrade: subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
UpgradeStatus: No upgrade log present (probably fresh install)

** Affects: mysql-5.6 (Ubuntu)
     Importance: Undecided
         Status: New


** Tags: amd64 apport-package wily
```

---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-10-28
Moved to a thread of it's own. OP please create your threads in the correct sub-forum.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-10-28
Cariboo in fact anyone whose dealt with defeating the lockring password lockout? It has shown its head twice tonight as it did back between 2005-2007 Luckily the password I set amid the upgrade to 15.10 is working. 

As I recall if you do not do a careful work around, you find yourself not able to get past go for weeks.

QIII, Cariboo, Liatie and dearest Friends: 

Today to initiate work, the decade old ubuntu Login Lockring problem raised its head. Amid that notice is given "The login PW didn't get unlocked when you logged in your PC." How did our Forum solve that and why does it continue to raise its head in 15.10 Ubuntu Willy a;pmg with Libre Office 5 failed "save my document" function arising since but not before this 10.04 to 15.10 upgrade by a genuinely released Willy Ubuntu. It appears from my efforts that a new article found at [http://www.webupd8.org/2015/10/workaround-for-sbinvboxconfig-not.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2015/10/workaround-for-sbinvboxconfig-not.html) is not the LibreOffice  "save my document" 5 problem that was reported properly at Launchpad and copied here before my screen went into a hazy mess and I got nudged amid the crash, reminded the Forum top admn does not like posts made in a panic by a 76 year old. Trash me and I have more doses of right here from the Forum's halt elder abuse activist.  
 
Do you know a genuine work around. If so kindly share it with Launchpad so this one does not take extensive time needed for arriving at solving this set of Wily errors. 

Meanwhile, I will attempt to carry on duties dealing with my non-salaried nonprofit org duties of Dialogue Producing Consortium, AMIU.edu, Imperial Neighborhood Association.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2015-10-29
Sorry, I cannot help you here. Is this your bug report about mysql : [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-5.6/+bug/1511158](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mysql-5.6/+bug/1511158) ?

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-10-31
Regrets -- this has to be very brief as my macular degeneration disability will not let me work. 

I. Twice after working for a bit in Libre Office and then running Google, it appears the lockring password error is coupled with something after opening Google. So far I have always been able to do a log in and proceed.  

II, The grey hazed over monitor has raised it's head. I remains a very serious error which might need to be reported on Launchpad related to Bug 1511158] [NEW] package. 

There have been two auto error reports 

III. There is a remainder of the original upgrade shut down problem, which manifests itself as libre office documents that had not saved correctly. Each time I open libre office two documents have red Xs beside them. Luckily these open and I can work for an hour or more. Then, all of a sudden before I can do a save the monitor greys out. When the hazed over monitor arises, it is hard to return the document to sanity. Finally the copy comes back and I can save

Beg anyone who may venture a work around to suggest. 

Regrets again ,,, my eyes won't allow more for now.

please do suggest a work around and/or whether this should be reported as related to Bug 1511158; 

IV. note again,,,,,,, There have been two auto error reports. I cannot determine if they are coupled with an almost dead monitor, the upgrade shut down problem  or  related to Bug 1511158

Hello All:   Your help is needed both as my Opthamalogist has warned me, "Blindness" is treatable and then you have a permanent limitation. Being under heavy stress has not helped me either to give you a clear appreciation of my problem and a sociable demeanor.

Yes Bapoumba I what I posted amid a personal blindness fade in and out. I'm glad cariboo moved the post to a separate thread which began five days earlier and got lost after I posted as a Bug at Launchpad. True was a copy of Bug 1511158 report emailed to me by a  Launchpad specialist "Robie Basak [email]1511158@bugs.launchpad.net[/email] via canonical.com" 

Again, to anyone who can help, I believe the original 10.04 to 15.10 upgrade shut down problem and the subsequent 1) login lockring password error and 2) 2 autogenerated crash reports and 3) a hazed over monitor that crashes, leaving me only one alternative - to power off,,, are all related to upgrading from 10.04 to 15.10; that is described to in my latest post. 

I thank each of you for your help. 

what is a likely explanation of hazed over monitor that crashes?

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2015-11-02
Am I getting correctly that you tried to upgrade from 10.04 to 15.10 ?
How did you do that ? 
Regular upgrades should go from one release to the other, ie 10.04 to 10.10 etc., except for Long time Support releases. A lot of releases between 10.04 and 15.10 are "end of life" and cannot be used (or cannot easly be used) to upgrade to.

If you changed your sources.list from 10.04 to 15.10, and tried to upgrade, breakages are likely.

All in all, I'd recommend a fresh install. Back up all your data before proceeding.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-11-02
Hi baoumba: 
     Allow me to ask as to the greyed out flipping monitor screen. Just learned my mouse and caps lock die simultaneous with  these greyed out crashes. How wou[d I verify if this is software or hardward? 
     Regards 10.04 to 15.10 upgrade, I pulled out a set aside idle 750 gig hard drive with the 10.04 and I believe Windows XP and data on 2 partitions. I read forums to see if anyone had fussed a lot about doing 10.04 to 15.10 upgrade. Finding none in my regards this I put aside 10 years of myths about jumping further than grade to grade and accepted the few real problems I personally saw in that  quick review. So I burned Willy Werewolf on a DVD; then I said, "Let me see what's going to happen in a noninstall; I liked 15.10 but not all the noise of non-installing look sees. So, I clicked Install. My eyes gave out which means to you, I did not watch the install every few minutes. just put my tongue in cheek. Then for good measure, I simply started a 3rd upgrade, back to back. And seeing the Willy Werewolf on the second and third time through, I determined that myths need to be tested. 
      Having an urgent paper to write as well as a buddy with Parkinsons and Hospice with him constantly for 10 months, I've said "none of us get out of the world we know on earth."  yes, sure I did my share of doing terminal work arounds, tried to figure out what caused greyed out flipping monitor screen after I made the launchpad Bug report as well as clicked yes on submit three or 4 auto error  reports. 
       Now that I have refreshed my linux thinking knowledge, though the buddy with Parkinsons and the urgent paper to write still take priority, I'll do the back ups and schedule my calendar with a clean install of 15.10. 

        Before leaving, caution me on regards the  my mouse and caps lock die simultaneous with  these greyed out crashes. Do these sound like software or hardware? The SATA mother board hook ups seem correct but two mouses feel like a dry alcohol clean wouldn't hurt. They worked making todays pages.
 I didn't have that trouble with the 80 gig HD running independent of the 750 g on I believe Ubuntu 14.04.-3.4.
       Is time I rest my eyes or I'll be zapped several days.

Thanks for all you do bapoumba
  cheers, Ken78724

New crash report on Kubuntu 10.04 to ubuntu 15.10 Wily Werewolf upgrade shut down problem, grey monitor crashed
Today 8:20 AM 11-3-15, note new greyed-out flipping monitor crash just generated its autogenerated crash reports. Last night I discovered: a) the mouse and caps lock die simultaneous with greyed out crashes. Am unsure if this is software or hardware. How'd I do the 10.04 to 15.10 upgrade, I pulled out a set aside idle 750 gig hard drive with the 10.04 and I believe Windows XP and data on 2 partitions. Week – 10 days 1) login lockring password error and 2) 2 autogenerated crash reports and 3) my hazed over monitor crashed, leaving me only one alternative - to power off. I hold these relate to upgrading from 10.04 to 15.10; and  related to Bug 1511158. Am amid doing a launchpad crash report. below is duplication of above.

I. Twice after working for a bit in Libre Office and then running Google, it appears the lockring password error is coupled with something after opening Google. So far I have always been able to do a log in and proceed.*

II, The grey hazed over monitor has raised it's head. I remains a very serious error which might need to be reported on Launchpad related to Bug 1511158] [NEW] package.* There were two auto error reports

III. There is a remainder of the original upgrade shut down problem, which manifests itself as libre office documents that had not saved correctly. Each time I open libre office two documents have red Xs beside them. Luckily these open and I can work for an hour or more. Then, all of a sudden before I can do a save the monitor greys out. When the hazed over monitor arises, it is hard to return the document to sanity. Finally the monitor showing Libre Office 5 copy comes back and I can save [Begged anyone to suggest a work around and/or whether this should be reported as; no response]

IV.  There were auto error reports. I cannot determine if they are coupled with an almost dead monitor, the upgrade shut down problem or related to Bug 1511158

Hi: 

a launchpad crash report was made and responded to.
I'll follow your/their new install recommendations ASAP

Hi One and All: 

  If there was any way at all to save this upgrade, I would do it. Today I've gotten eight hours of perfect performance. 

ken

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2015-11-04
A greyed out screen usually means the system or an application is busy doing something. For ex, I used to get that a lot on a much older and limited specs hardware when Unity came in (which I solved installing lubuntu).

I gather you have fresh installed 15.10 from a DVD, is that correct ? You may want to give us details about your hardware.

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-11-06
finally after asking that Bug 1511158 be listed on launchpad as a new bug pursuant to crash reports and terminal build of the Kedek ppa, which this morning was rejected. 

the error today identifies an error related to mysqld 5.6.27-0ubuntu1 config. Then minutes ago, finally an update
 wasn't rejected.

what is the work around here on error 1
sudo apt-get install systemback
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
systemback is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 9 not upgraded.
2 not fully installed or removed.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
Setting up mysql-server-5.6 (5.6.27-0ubuntu1) ...
2015-11-06 07:58:36 0 [Warning] TIMESTAMP with implicit DEFAULT value is deprecated. Please use --explicit_defaults_for_timestamp server option (see documentation for more details).
2015-11-06 07:58:36 0 [Note] /usr/sbin/mysqld (mysqld 5.6.27-0ubuntu1) starting as process 12065 ...
12065

Job for mysql.service failed because a timeout was exceeded. See "systemctl status mysql.service" and "journalctl -xe" for details.
invoke-rc.d: initscript mysql, action "start" failed.
dpkg: error processing package mysql-server-5.6 (--configure):
 subprocess installed post-installation script returned error exit status 1
dpkg: dependency problems prevent configuration of mysql-server:
 mysql-server depends on mysql-server-5.6; however:
  Package mysql-server-5.6 is not configured yet.

dpkg: error processing package mysql-server (--configure):
 dependency problems - leaving unconfigured
No apport report written because the error message indicates its a followup error from a previous failure.
                          Errors were encountered while processing:
 mysql-server-5.6
 mysql-server
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)
ken@k78724:~$ sudo apt-get install systemback
[sudo] password for ken: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
systemback is already the newest version.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 9 not upgraded.
2 not fully installed or removed.
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk space will be used.
Do you want to continue? [Y/n] y
Setting up mysql-server-5.6 (5.6.27-0ubuntu1) ...

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-11-11
Exasperated for the time being I gave up on the Hd and loaded Wily 1510 on a 1 Tb WD drive. 

must move along using the new set up. once I get  my must do work achieved. 

Then, at a later time I will back up my work and do a Wily 1510 reinstall on the 750 g
:lolflag:

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2015-11-22
have set the Hard Drive aside as I found reported bug causing this error.

plan is to remove all salvageable data and if operable/feasible, wipe HD clean.

mark this as solved by koym

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2015-11-22
> **ken78724 said:**
> ..
mark this as solved by koym

You can do it under the Thread Tools menu :)

---

### Post by ken78724 on 2016-01-28
Thanks to all who stop by after 10 am cst 1-28-16 ,,,,, my issue/bug reports etc., might be solved:

By moving my 1 T-bit WD hard drive running on 15.10 to a backup clone PC and isolating hardware outages then doing a simple auto-update early 1-28-16, I want to believe my questions may be solved.

At least, the demands on me to move ahead with work are pressing thanks to knowledge from Ubuntu Forum and Launchpad bug solution specialists.

Many thanks for all you do!

Warm regards!!!
ken78724

---

