---
title: "Looking for a good video editing program"
date: 2011-03-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-03-09
Hi,
I am starting a large video and audio project and I need to find a good program to help me finish it - I thought this would be the perfect place to ask this question: Does anyone have in mind a good video editing software for linux?
It needs to be able to incorporate image, .pdf, or other file types of that category into the video. It also has to be timeline based so I can make audio cuts easily.
So far I have tried avidemux and pitivi, but they were not able to handle the incorporatin of my .pdf file (I didn't think to try converting it to .png but after I just assumed it didn't have that feature)
I'm thinking of something similar to Adobe Premiere Elements, which could handle several file types quite nicely.
I'm going to bed now but will read all of your posts tomorrow.
Thank you,
 - search

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-03-10
Bump!

---

### Post by cchhrriiss121212 on 2011-03-10
Kdenlive or Openshot?

---

### Post by nomko on 2011-03-10
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> Bump!
 
If you need a good and easy to use editing prgram, try OpenShot. It's in the repository of Ubuntu. It's a look-a-like of Kdenlive. Kdenlive is also a good and easy to use program, but it crashes now and then. So, my advise: OpenShot Video editor.

---

### Post by KaYnemO on 2011-03-10
I use Kdenlive and I like it after I got used to it

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-03-10
Thank you for the suggestions! OpenShot was exactly what I needed! Thank you!

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-03-10
It looks like the version in the software center is only 1.22 while you can get 1.30 via Openshot ppa.

---

### Post by simonmoon42 on 2011-03-10
Cinelerra is kind of a pain to install, but it is very, very powerful.

---

### Post by StrayEddy on 2011-03-10
I tried Kdenlive (the xml generated by the project is unstable)
 
Then tried Openshot 1.3 (glitches at some cuts, nice transitions but playback is not all that good, zooming max could be better)
 
Finally I tried last week cinelerra-cv (awesome) (don t compare it with cinelerra please, the CV is really better)
 
Only bad point with cinelerra, for it to be at its best and not prompt errors, import mpeg format.
The viewer + compositor is really a good idea, createing clips also, instead of using another video track jsut for cutting stuff.

---

### Post by lisati on 2011-03-10
One thing that strikes me about the original question is the desire to incorporate PDF files. That's something I don't remember seeing before in the video editing software I've used (mostly under Windows), and my curiosity is aroused. :)

---

### Post by StrayEddy on 2011-03-10
If you need precision and power choose cinelerra-cv.
 
You will post of people saying it s buggy, but actual the community version is quite stable.
 
Openshot is nice but noit enough accurate and stable for me, and i woulnd t recommend it for a big project.
 
Kdenlive is good, but unstable. The xml project file always has problems (can t load, renders something else than what you see in the program, odd and weird errors)

---

