---
title: "rc2.d scripts executed during shutdown"
date: 2016-02-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mfehr on 2016-02-28
I noticed that during a shutdown of the ubuntu OS, a number of services are started instead of stopped. I checked this more detailed for my mail server service: The start/stop script for my mail service is /etc/rc2.d/S20xxx for both server startup and shutdown.

It is my understanding that if I execute the commands reboot, shutdown -h or shutdwon -r the scripts in /etc/rc0.d /etc/rc1.d or /etc/rc6.d should be executed during the shutdown procedure. At the reboot, everything in /etc/rc2.d will be executed.

The server OS is Ubuntu 14.04.4 LTS

The services are configured as follows:
update-rc.d mail start 20 2 3 4 5 . stop 20 0 1 6 .

Why is anything in /etc/rc2.d executed during the shutdown procedure?

---

### Post by mfehr on 2016-02-29
The problem is solved. The output I saw during the shutdown is the end of the console output from the boot process. The shutdown scripts are executed but for unknown reason, I don't see it's output on the console. As I did not see the expected output but start messages on the console, I got the wrong impression that scripts are executed the wrong way.

The test I did is to log the start/stop parameters, runmode and other relevant information to a log file which I could study after a successful reboot. This confirmed that the stop script actually got executed as expected. The only missing peace is that nothing was visible at the console.

---

