---
title: "{1..5} Dynamic range posible?"
date: 2012-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-04-16
Hay all,

I have the current script going:

```
for i in {1..4};
 do
   NUMBER=$[ ( $RANDOM % 7 ) + 1 ]
   echo $NUMBER;
done
```

What I wish to do is being able to either specify the amount of random numbers being generated, or even beter a random range within limits. As an example (this does not seem to work)

```
read -p "Enter desired result length: " length
for i in {1..$length};
 do
   NUMBER=$[ ( $RANDOM % 7 ) + 1 ]
   echo $NUMBER;
done

```

This however produces only one result. also trying:
```
for i in {$range}
``` 
with input "1..9" also produces only one result. I assume the var is never getting replaced. However, I would love to use a variable in the range so I can use either a random number generator, or an input.

I can't seem to find anything on the net, cause I am not sure how to phrase a good search in google to return the desired results.

Thanks in advance
Cherz

---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-04-16
```

read -p "Please enter the amount of numbers to generate: " max

range="{1..$max}"

echo "="
for i in 'echo $range';
 do
   NUMBER=$[ ( $RANDOM % 7 ) + 1 ]
   echo $NUMBER;
done
```

This does not work either. The problem being this part:
**for i in 'echo $range'**
It translates correctly to:
**for i in {1..5} #5 being the example input**
But the result is only one number that gets generated, for some reason the {1..5} never seems to get interpreted....

:confused:

---

### Post by brainwash on 2012-04-16
This should work:
```
for i in $(seq 1 5)
```

---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-04-16
> **brainwash said:**
> This should work:
```
for i in $(seq 1 5)
```

Yes that does work, and {1..5} works aswell, but I want the range to be changeable based on a variable, in other words:

```
for i in {1..$max}
do echo $i
done
```

max=1
result: 1

max=3
result: 1 2 3

max=10
result: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

and so forth. The range must be changeable while the script is running through user input.

Cherz

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2012-04-16
C-style for loop

```
n=5
for (( i=1; i<=n; i++ )); do ...; done
```

for i in $( seq 1 $n ) would work too, though it calls external seq program while c-style for (( )) is native to bash

---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-04-16
Aaaah! that seems to work!

I have also found:

```
for i in $(eval echo $range);

```

While I was searching the web. This also seems to work. Is one of these methods prefered above the other? As I have NO idea what the use of "eval" is?

Thanks a lot for the quick responses :)

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2012-04-16
eval runs the text given as if it was the command
[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eval](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eval)

```
$ n=10; expr="echo {1..$n}"
$ echo "$expr"
echo {1..10}
$ eval "$expr"
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

```
expr is an ordinary text with n filled in
when you echo it, nothing happens, you get text
eval takes the string and runs it, as if the text was a legit line of code in the script


it's best to avoid eval, it's a hack that reinforces sloppiness and bad programming habits, not to mention security risks attached.
Pretty much everything involving eval is at the far end when it comes to 'the most suitable' or 'preferred' anything :)

---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-04-16
aah i see,

Thanks for the heads up. The eval approach also adds a few lines of code the before mentioned method does not add. So I will stick to the other one.

Thanks a lot for the speedy response, marking thread as solved :)

Cherz

---

