---
title: "Drives showing on Desktop"
date: 2007-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MadMac on 2007-04-24
Howdy!

Alrighty, I have something that I need help with.  I have to say, first, that I recently upgraded to 7.04 and I have to say that I LOVE it!  Things that did not work in 6.10 now work like a charm!  Muchly appreciated.  =D> 

Anyway, I have a problem.  Specifically, that I have 2 hard drives showing (mounted/displayed) on the desktop (“backup” and “windows” - I don't know why “storage” didn't show up).  Prior to this, I made a change to the fstab as below (they were showing “h” rather than “s” such as “hdc1” instead of “sdc1”):

===============
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=9da58a31-4aa3-4fd8-aa9d-42358ab4cdff / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=24d2d20f-69c1-42ad-86b3-2e0f37a89c4d none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
#/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/backup ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/storage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
===============

Can anyone tell my why they are showing up on the Desktop and how I can get them off the Desktop?  When I try to unmount them from the Desktop, I get an error window popping up that says I haven't permission to unmount them (“You are not privileged to unmount this volume.”).

Any ideas?

Thanks!

---

### Post by BoneKracker on 2007-04-24
One solution:

instead of "defaults" put "noauto", then they shouldn't get mounted unless you explicitly mount them
if you want to be able to mount them (with the graphical tools, and without root permissions) then add "user"

---

### Post by zvacet on 2007-04-24
```
gconf-editor
```

apps>nautilus>desktop

---

### Post by BoneKracker on 2007-04-24
Right -- sorry -- I forgot about the "showing up on the desktop" part, lol.
(That was only the main part of your question.)
:)

---

### Post by MadMac on 2007-04-24
> **zvacet said:**
> ```
gconf-editor
```

apps>nautilus>desktop

zvacet,

That did it!  Many thanks!!
\\:D/

---

