---
title: "11.10 dual  monitor nvidia card problem"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by carranty on 2011-10-14
Hi,

I've upgraded from 10.04 to 11.10 and unfortunately I no longer seem to be able to use two monitors.  According to *lspci* I have an nVidia Corporation G72 [GeForce 7500 LE] (rev a1) graphics card.  I have the 173 nvidia proprietary driver installed.  When I open up nvidia-settings and go to the 'X Server Display Configuration' tab it says
[I]
Unable to load X Server Display Configuration page:

Failed to query NoScanout for screen 0.[/I] 

Also, if I try to use the 'Display' app that comes with ubuntu it can only detect the one monitor, and classes it as 'unknown'.

Whichever monitor I connect via VGA works, but the DVI seems to be a no go.  Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by carranty on 2011-10-14
Ok, I can partially solve this problem by using the 'Nvidia accelerated graphics driver (version current)[recommended]' and logging into ubuntu 2d, however with this driver ubuntu crashes right after the login screen if I use the standard (3d) ubuntu. Also, it only works if I use twinview, if I try to use two different xscreens one screen just displays a blank background.

---

### Post by feniks2003 on 2011-10-14
I have also the same problem

---

### Post by kelliott0965 on 2011-10-14
I'm also having a similar problem...everything was working fine until I upgraded to 11.10 tonight. I'm using a nvidia GE Force 9600GT card with dual monitors. I'm only getting video on one monitor...the other is not recognized by the system.

So, I opened up the nvidia xserver settings program you noted above. Under xserver display information, I get the following message: 

Unable to load X Server Display Configuration page:

Failed to query NoScanout for screen 0.

Also, I checked System Settings / Displays to see what it had listed and it just said "Unknown" and showed one single monitor icon.

Do you have any idea what could be wrong?

Thank you for any help you can provide.

Cordially,

-Keith

---

### Post by aircarver on 2011-10-14
Also can't get an xserver start after upgrading to 11.10.

---

### Post by PewterHydra on 2011-10-14
I have the same problem. My card is the nvidia quadro nvs 285. I've tried the 96, 173 and 'current' options. 

Gnome just recognizes one big 'unknown' monitor, and the nvidia server settings app, under "X Server Display Config", says "Failed to query NoScanout for screen 0." This is whether or not it was started as root. 

The nvidia app does (under the GPU menu) show both monitors correctly: a Dell and a Sharp.

ETA: I should clarify, both monitors are hooked up via dvi and have display, though the smaller monitor seems to be given as much desktop space as the large one so things fall off into invisibility, if that makes sense.

---

### Post by carranty on 2011-10-14
Having looked through the old forum posts there have been similar problems in the days following quite a few ubuntu releases.  In the past it has been that the driver we are using -- be it 173, 96 or another -- is not quite up to date.  It is usually fixed within a week, when an updated driver is posted.  Hopefully, it will be sorted sooner rather than later, it seems to be a fairly common problem!

---

### Post by jay-dubb on 2011-10-14
Just wanted to chime in, but I'm also having the same problem. I have an nvidia 9500GT that runs two Samsung Syncmaster's (one is 1920x1080, and the other is 1680x1050) via dual DVI ports, and nvidia's graphics driver can only display one of them at a time.

The odd thing is that it can see both monitors, but it can only use one. I've tried using every nvidia driver available (173, post-install 173, current (recommended), post-install current), but I didn't have any luck w/ them. I also tried logging in using different desktops (Unity 2D, Gnome Shell, Gnome Classic, etc.), but that didn't help.

I'm really hoping that they get this fixed soon, b/c I do a lot of development on my comp, and it's painful being restricted to only one monitor. The real salt in the wound is that my dual monitor set-up was working fine as of Ubuntu 11.04. :(

---

### Post by Tighearna on 2011-10-14
Is there any way to just turn the nvidia driver off?

Using the live cd both monitors work fine and are recognized without any additional drivers.

Since this is only an email and instant messenging box I don't need the graphics.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by krackersk on 2011-10-14
I too am having this problem. I'm using a laptop with Quadro FX 1700M

---

### Post by krackersk on 2011-10-14
I just did a fresh install of 11.10 without having connection to the internet (and hence it didn't download the NVIDIA drivers) and the dual monitors work fine using the open source drivers. I'm not sure how to regress the drivers from binary to open source

---

### Post by Kobin on 2011-10-14
You just open the "Additional Drivers" and deactivate the nvidia driver.
I did this, and Unity 3d is now running very well using the Nouveau driver. Also the problem with using external monitors is gone.

I just installed the nvidia driver out of habit. But it seems that it's not always a good idea anymore.

Another plus is that this makes it possible to use the default Display configurator in Ubuntu instead of the Nvidia one.

EDIT:
I can even play Open Arena and Nexuiz
My graphics card is Nvidia Geforce GT 240M

---

### Post by jay-dubb on 2011-10-15
So the open-source driver for nvidia cards works? Cool, I'll have to try that out then. The only downside is that I doubt it'll be able to handle Oil Rush, but at least I can get some dev work done. ;)

---

### Post by Rivoot on 2011-10-16
I've got the same problem...guess I'll just try with the noveau drivers instead until they fix the issue.

EDIT: Tried using the noveau drivers but the configuration wasn't showing my native screen resolution so I'll have to use the nvidia ones and wait for a dual-screen fix :B

---

### Post by kwildman on 2011-10-17
Having the same issues with a Quadro FX1600 card on a Dell Precision M6300.

Really surprised that their is so many issues with NVIDIA support on this release.  Previously, the LiveCD wouldnt work at all with Unity on Natty but it installed fine.   The LiveCD worked fine with Oneiric but was an epic failure when i booted.  I got the "checking battery state" freeze during bootup when it tried to load the drivers.   I was able to drop to the command line and manually use the Nvidia 173 drivers that have worked in the past.   Now the nvidia settings manager is whacked.  Looking around it seems that the ATI folks got their own set of issues.  My guess is that it is related to support with the Gnome3 vs 2 upgrade.

Anyhow, my setup is a little different but it may help get someone in the right direction.   I use my laptop on a docking station with the lid closed and it use a hardware KVM to switch between my desktop and laptop.   The external monitor was not recoginized in the nvidia settings or the ubuntu display manager.   I manually edited the Device section of the xorg.conf file to include:

Option   "UseDisplayDevice"  "DFP-2"

Which was the settings from my old natty setup.   This worked without issue.  Therefore it may be possible to manually edit your xorg.conf file to use the dual monitors.  Might be able to grab those settings from your backup.

---

### Post by staannoe on 2011-10-17
Same issue using the Nvidia drivers. Have tested on two different laptops with Nvidia cards, and the problem seems consistent.

The nouvaeu drivers seems to work ok with dual monitors. Nvidia driver seems ok on a single monitor.

Been running the Nvidia drivers with a dual setup for years without problems, until today...

---

### Post by james.m on 2011-10-17
Yep, dual monitor support here with the Nvidia driver is busted.

I had to,


[LIST=1]
[*]Run nvidia-settings
[*]Enable the second monitor
[*]Save the configuration file to /etc/X11/xorg.conf
[*]Close nvidia-settings, then log out
[*]The second monitor became enabled
[/LIST]
I found that if I hit 'Apply' inside of nvidia-settings, my screen would go black with the mouse pointer visible. Mouse movements became extremely jerky and if I waited a short amount of time the desktop would come back without any of the window decorations and the keyboard wouldn't work.

---

### Post by rolandruiken on 2011-10-18
Hello,

I installed Ubuntu 11.10 64 bit helt new.
Nvidia 7500 LE with to monitors.

The same problem as above:
- ubuntu 2D works but ubuntu 3d crashes..... it is not possible to start programs etc.

Who haves an solution for 3D with unity in Ubunut 11.10 and nvidia ???

---

### Post by Kobin on 2011-10-18
Are you using nvidia or open source driver?

---

### Post by JesusFistus on 2011-10-18
After trying different approaches where one of the screens went gray or black, or I could not log in at all using the GUI i figured it out.

The thing that worked was, deleting the xorg.conf (backup this file first)
Sudo rm /etc/X11xorg.conf
Restart the machin (a default xorg.conf will be created)
Install the NVIDIA accelereated graphich driver (post-release update)(version current-update)
Start the "nvidia x server settings"  both of the screens should show.
Select the screen that does not work
Set Configuration: TwinView 
Save to X configuration file
I use a nVidia Corporation G86 Quadro NVS 290 card

---

### Post by glogo on 2011-10-18
Hi folks! I guess I've found a solution for the multiple displays problem... only thanks to you guys.

1.) disable active drivers (if you have any after fresh install f.e.)
2.) install nvidia drivers current (not pre-release)
3.) reboot
4.) type cd /etc/X11/ and then cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup (it makes copy of your configuration file... {just in case})
5.) open up the terminal and enter: sudo apt-get install gtk2-engines-pixbuf
6.) after installation enter sudo nvidia-settings (it opens up the Nvidia X Server settings)
7.) goto X Server Display Configuration
8.) set your settings, BUT! don't hit apply... when you are finished hit Save to X Configuration File
9.) log off and log in again

and voala it should be done now! I had problems saving my X configuration file but I fixed it by the step number 4

Again thanks to **j****ames.m** instructions and:
[http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/](http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/)
[http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/](http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/)

Hope this helps! :)

---

### Post by james.m on 2011-10-18
The silly thing is that when I take the laptop home and go back to only a single monitor I need to remember to delete[FONT=Courier New] /etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT], otherwise X still thinks there is a second monitor attached.

What beats me is that this has worked perfectly for the last umpteen releases of Ubuntu. How can it go from working perfectly to being completely broken **and** pass through Ubuntu QA **and** make its way into a release?

---

### Post by dulbirakan on 2011-10-18
The solution for me was to remove the monitors.xml from the ~/.config folder while the computer was connected to the dock. After logging out and logging in again the problem was gone.

After that everything worked smoothly.

---

### Post by glogo on 2011-10-19
> **james.m said:**
> The silly thing is that when I take the laptop home and go back to only a single monitor I need to remember to delete[FONT=Courier New] /etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT], otherwise X still thinks there is a second monitor attached.

What beats me is that this has worked perfectly for the last umpteen releases of Ubuntu. How can it go from working perfectly to being completely broken **and** pass through Ubuntu QA **and** make its way into a release?

Yeah... I have this problem too... I strongly believe that Ubuntu team will find the answer and fix it in some updates soon :/

---

### Post by ijoseph on 2011-10-19
> **glogo said:**
> Hi folks! I guess I've found a solution for the multiple displays problem... only thanks to you guys.

1.) disable active drivers (if you have any after fresh install f.e.)
2.) install nvidia drivers current (not pre-release)
3.) reboot
4.) type cd /etc/X11/ and then cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup (it makes copy of your configuration file... {just in case})
5.) open up the terminal and enter: sudo apt-get install gtk2-engines-pixbuf
6.) after installation enter sudo nvidia-settings (it opens up the Nvidia X Server settings)
7.) goto X Server Display Configuration
8.) set your settings, BUT! don't hit apply... when you are finished hit Save to X Configuration File

and voala it should be done now! I had problems saving my X configuration file but I fixed it by the step number 4

Again thanks to **j****ames.m** instructions and:
[http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/](http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/)
[http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/](http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/)

Hope this helps! :)

You forgot step 9.) Log out and log back in

which actually applies the ```
xorg.conf
``` file. This caused me hours of setback (in the form of giving up on this method and reinstalling without internet connection to get the Nouveau drivers (which didn't work well enough for me due to slowness)).

---

### Post by ijoseph on 2011-10-19
I'm using a GeForce 8400M GS by the way.

---

### Post by Nogothrim on 2011-10-20
same problem here with Geforce 7300 GO and 173 & 96 drivers. With nvidia-current gnome-shell does not repaint at all and unity2d has horrible video tearing. With nouveau desktop is quite slow and awakes with complete garbage from suspend.

---

### Post by jay-dubb on 2011-10-20
I deleted my xorg.conf file and rebooted, and now I can select my second monitor again! However, I noticed two bugs: first, notifications keep appearing on my secondary monitor (ran this from a terminal: notify-send test test). Likewise, whenever I click on an app indicator icon on the status bar up top, the menu disappears almost immediately. If I click it enough times it'll finally stay open, but then the indicators on the second monitor start disappearing instead (it goes back and forth, basically).

---

### Post by philip260897 on 2011-10-22
Hello,

i had the same problem, but found a solution that worked for me and my two monitors are up and running. I thought i'd share this with you.

I followed these steps and everything worked fine.

Try to completely remove your nvidia drivers from your system:
  sudo apt-get purge nvidia*   

Remove your xorg.conf
  sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

Reinstall xorg completely
  sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-core libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 libgl1-mesa-dri:i386 libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64 

Re-configure Xorg
  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg   

Reboot
  sudo reboo

After the reboot my monitors were both displaying the same picture so i opened the "Displays" Setting from System Settings and i uncheked the "mirror displays" option.

i hope this will help you guys.

---

### Post by glogo on 2011-10-23
> **ijoseph said:**
> You forgot step 9.) Log out and log back in

which actually applies the ```
xorg.conf
``` file. This caused me hours of setback (in the form of giving up on this method and reinstalling without internet connection to get the Nouveau drivers (which didn't work well enough for me due to slowness)).

Oh sorry, I really did forget that step. I hope eveeything is just OK now. (I've added the step)

When I was searching for my solution I had to reinstall my OS several times so I hope your journey was much shorter :)

---

### Post by cast0r on 2011-10-23
Update actually didn't brake my TwinView but fresh installation did :(

What I did in order to stay on nvidia-173 drivers and have my TwinView back was to run:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig --no-logo --twinview
```

and **reboot the system**  !


One could also tweak the xorg.conf manually of course or use the nvidia-current drivers which are actually recommended. 

Regards
cast0r

---

### Post by RobertSwipe on 2011-10-26
> **glogo said:**
> Hi folks! I guess I've found a solution for the multiple displays problem... only thanks to you guys.

1.) disable active drivers (if you have any after fresh install f.e.)
2.) install nvidia drivers current (not pre-release)
3.) reboot
4.) type cd /etc/X11/ and then cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup (it makes copy of your configuration file... {just in case})
5.) open up the terminal and enter: sudo apt-get install gtk2-engines-pixbuf
6.) after installation enter sudo nvidia-settings (it opens up the Nvidia X Server settings)
7.) goto X Server Display Configuration
8.) set your settings, BUT! don't hit apply... when you are finished hit Save to X Configuration File
9.) log off and log in again

and voala it should be done now! I had problems saving my X configuration file but I fixed it by the step number 4

Again thanks to **j****ames.m** instructions and:
[http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/](http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/)
[http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/](http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/)

Hope this helps! :)


This hasn't worked for me :-(
My setup is a laptop with a second monitor attached when I'm in the office. Normally under 10.10, this shows a separate desktop view (not TwinView) so I keep my main work on the big monitor and emails/web browser on the laptop display.

Part of the problem is that I can't find a way of getting windows open on the second display - no mouse clicks work in it, and there's no menu/app bar that allows me to select anything. The only thing that ever happens is when I select "Home folder" in the laptop display, the second monitor goes completely white. A right click in it clears it, but also closes down the folder view in the laptop screen.

How are we supposed to run apps in a second screen? Windows don't move across from one screen to another (like an extended desktop) so with 10.10 I'd lauch apps from the appropriate screen. But with no menu bar or launcher panel, it just sits there....

---

### Post by gottsc33 on 2011-10-27
> **RobertSwipe said:**
> This hasn't worked for me :-(
My setup is a laptop with a second monitor attached when I'm in the office. Normally under 10.10, this shows a separate desktop view (not TwinView) so I keep my main work on the big monitor and emails/web browser on the laptop display.

Part of the problem is that I can't find a way of getting windows open on the second display - no mouse clicks work in it, and there's no menu/app bar that allows me to select anything. The only thing that ever happens is when I select "Home folder" in the laptop display, the second monitor goes completely white. A right click in it clears it, but also closes down the folder view in the laptop screen.

How are we supposed to run apps in a second screen? Windows don't move across from one screen to another (like an extended desktop) so with 10.10 I'd lauch apps from the appropriate screen. But with no menu bar or launcher panel, it just sits there....


I am having the same issue.  The second monitor works but I can't drag any windows over to it and the mouse icon is displayed as an X.  No mouse click functions work either.

---

### Post by eumetaxas on 2011-10-28
> **glogo said:**
> Hi folks! I guess I've found a solution for the multiple displays problem... only thanks to you guys.

1.) disable active drivers (if you have any after fresh install f.e.)
2.) install nvidia drivers current (not pre-release)
3.) reboot
4.) type cd /etc/X11/ and then cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup (it makes copy of your configuration file... {just in case})
5.) open up the terminal and enter: sudo apt-get install gtk2-engines-pixbuf
6.) after installation enter sudo nvidia-settings (it opens up the Nvidia X Server settings)
7.) goto X Server Display Configuration
8.) set your settings, BUT! don't hit apply... when you are finished hit Save to X Configuration File
9.) log off and log in again

and voala it should be done now! I had problems saving my X configuration file but I fixed it by the step number 4

Again thanks to **j****ames.m** instructions and:
[http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/](http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/)
[http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/](http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/)

Hope this helps! :)

Thank you!

---

### Post by virtuousd on 2011-10-30
> **glogo said:**
> Hi folks! I guess I've found a solution for the multiple displays problem... only thanks to you guys.

1.) disable active drivers (if you have any after fresh install f.e.)
2.) install nvidia drivers current (not pre-release)
3.) reboot
4.) type cd /etc/X11/ and then cp xorg.conf xorg.conf.backup (it makes copy of your configuration file... {just in case})
5.) open up the terminal and enter: sudo apt-get install gtk2-engines-pixbuf
6.) after installation enter sudo nvidia-settings (it opens up the Nvidia X Server settings)
7.) goto X Server Display Configuration
8.) set your settings, BUT! don't hit apply... when you are finished hit Save to X Configuration File
9.) log off and log in again

and voala it should be done now! I had problems saving my X configuration file but I fixed it by the step number 4

Again thanks to **j****ames.m** instructions and:
[http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/](http://www.wetware.co.nz/2009/10/failed-to-parse-existing-x-config-file-etcx11xorg-conf/)
[http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/](http://www.macewan.org/2006/11/19/gtk-warning-unable-to-locate-theme-engine-in-module_path-pixmap/)

Hope this helps! :)

This worked perfectly for my system - GeForce 560 Ti. Thanks so much!

---

### Post by emrys on 2011-10-31
There is a bug report on this... if we all mark it as affecting us maybe things will move faster: 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/864784](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/864784)

---

### Post by Gmasterhyde on 2011-11-01
> **RobertSwipe said:**
> This hasn't worked for me :-(
My setup is a laptop with a second monitor attached when I'm in the office. Normally under 10.10, this shows a separate desktop view (not TwinView) so I keep my main work on the big monitor and emails/web browser on the laptop display.

Part of the problem is that I can't find a way of getting windows open on the second display - no mouse clicks work in it, and there's no menu/app bar that allows me to select anything. The only thing that ever happens is when I select "Home folder" in the laptop display, the second monitor goes completely white. A right click in it clears it, but also closes down the folder view in the laptop screen.

How are we supposed to run apps in a second screen? Windows don't move across from one screen to another (like an extended desktop) so with 10.10 I'd lauch apps from the appropriate screen. But with no menu bar or launcher panel, it just sits there....

Having the same exact issue. I like the functionality of having two monitors with different things on each. My guess is that conflicting unity and compiz setting will render any approach to get a second *distinct *monitor working useless. I wanted to see if I could run a separate desktop cube from the second monitor but that's looking highly unlikely considering I can't even get windows onto it XD

---

### Post by Heire on 2011-11-03
> **Gmasterhyde said:**
> Having the same exact issue. I like the functionality of having two monitors with different things on each. My guess is that conflicting unity and compiz setting will render any approach to get a second *distinct *monitor working useless. I wanted to see if I could run a separate desktop cube from the second monitor but that's looking highly unlikely considering I can't even get windows onto it XD

I used to have this problem also in 11.04, the problem was that compiz is not running on the second screen.
The solution was to start compiz there through shell:
DISPLAY=:0.1 compiz &

Don't know if this is still the case in 11.10, but perhaps you can try this.

---

### Post by guyibo123 on 2011-11-05
I also have a similar problem, except it existed even before I ugraded. any ideas anyone?:confused:

---

### Post by neogenesis59 on 2011-11-07
> **philip260897 said:**
> Hello,

i had the same problem, but found a solution that worked for me and my two monitors are up and running. I thought i'd share this with you.

I followed these steps and everything worked fine.

Try to completely remove your nvidia drivers from your system:
  sudo apt-get purge nvidia*   

Remove your xorg.conf
  sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

Reinstall xorg completely
  sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-core libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 libgl1-mesa-dri:i386 libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64 

Re-configure Xorg
  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg   

Reboot
  sudo reboo

After the reboot my monitors were both displaying the same picture so i opened the "Displays" Setting from System Settings and i uncheked the "mirror displays" option.

i hope this will help you guys.

Thank you, this solved the problem for me.

---

### Post by B@byD33 on 2011-11-29
Thanks RobertSwipE!

---

### Post by rolandruiken on 2011-12-05
I have found resolution on an other webside:


[http://mygeekopinions.blogspot.com/2011/06/how-to-install-nvidia-2750907-driver-in.html](http://mygeekopinions.blogspot.com/2011/06/how-to-install-nvidia-2750907-driver-in.html)
--------------------------
You can install this Nvidia Driver 290.... version in Ubuntu 11.10  Oneiric Ocelot by entering the below command in your Terminal window.  Once done, make sure to do a reboot of your Ubuntu PC/Laptop as well.[INDENT]sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
----------------------------------------------

This solved my problem: I can start ubuntu (3d) med unity and the twinview is activatet with 

sudo nvidia-settings     ......  works as it should

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by skotos on 2011-12-15
I have found another solution (my current configuration is DFP-0 + CRT-0):

[LIST=1]
[*]under *System Settings->Additional Drivers*, select *NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (**version current**) [Recommended]*
[*]reboot to activate
[*]if you need / would like to pass the proper edid file for your monitor
[LIST=1]
[*]install **read-edid** (in the universe repo)
[*]*sudo read-edid > monitor.edid*
[*]*sudo chown 0777 monitor.edid* (quick and dirty)
[*]launch the **NVIDIA X Server Settings** app in the dash home
[LIST=1]
[*]acquire the file named *monitor.edid* you have just created
[*]create your dual display configuration and choose *Save Current Configuration*
[*]reboot
[*]*rm monitor.edid* (to delete the file: you do not need it any more)
[/LIST]
 
[*]if you need to change the primary display for the X screen
[LIST=1]
[*]run the NVIDIA X Server Settings app again
[*]select *X Server Display Configuration*,
[*]choose your main display tab and flag the *Make this the primary display for the X screen* option
[*]choose *Save Current Configuration*
[*]reboot
[/LIST]
 
[/LIST]
 
[*]done!
[/LIST]
HTH :popcorn:

---

### Post by beningh on 2011-12-23
Thanks. Worked for me.

---

### Post by birdsarah on 2012-01-11
> **philip260897 said:**
> Hello,

i had the same problem, but found a solution that worked for me and my two monitors are up and running. I thought i'd share this with you.

I followed these steps and everything worked fine.

Try to completely remove your nvidia drivers from your system:
  sudo apt-get purge nvidia*   

Remove your xorg.conf
  sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

Reinstall xorg completely
  sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-core libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 libgl1-mesa-dri:i386 libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64 

Re-configure Xorg
  sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg   

Reboot
  sudo reboo

After the reboot my monitors were both displaying the same picture so i opened the "Displays" Setting from System Settings and i uncheked the "mirror displays" option.

i hope this will help you guys.

This worked great for me and also solved an issue I've been having since upgrading to 11.10 of waking up from sleep taking forever.

---

### Post by Xian75 on 2012-01-19
sudo apt-get purge nvidia* 

Remove your xorg.conf
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

Reinstall xorg completely
sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-core libgl1-mesa-glx:i386 libgl1-mesa-dri:i386 libgl1-mesa-glx:amd64 libgl1-mesa-dri:amd64 

Re-configure Xorg
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg 

Reboot
sudo reboot

works if you do not want NVIDIA.

After I removed NVIDIA I did this and it work with NVIDIA. I did this in unity 3D and everything is working fine. BUT I do not use 3D Cube, so I do not know what it will do in that case. I mostly use Gnome shell and it seems to work fine in that as well.

Add NVIDIA latest driver stable PPA:

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo apt-get update

DO NOT upgrade or install updates from manager yet.

Go to synaptic manager and search for "xserver-xorg-video-nouveau" and completely remove. It asks to remove "xserver-xorg-video-all" select apply. When done close synaptic.

Then install NVIDIA driver 290.10:

sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings

Reboot and it comes up as 1 monitor still but wait. Go to update manager and install NVIDIA updates if you have them.

1. Run nvidia-settings

2. select X Server Display Configuration,

3. Enable the second monitor

4. Choose your main display tab and flag the Make this the primary display

5. Choose Save Current Configuration

6. Save the configuration file to /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
(check merge with current if available - if you did top NVIDIA purge you will have to manually type in location)

7. Close nvidia-settings

8. reboot

I clicked apply and everything worked fine before saving current configuration. Up to you whether to or not.

---

### Post by gaj1967 on 2012-02-10
> **birdsarah said:**
> This worked great for me and also solved an issue I've been having since upgrading to 11.10 of waking up from sleep taking forever.

I think this one worked for me also. Any way, I got my dual monitors working again with the help of this thread.

Gil

---

