---
title: "~/.xsession running in low graphics mode with no graphics acceleration"
date: 2008-03-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by murderthephoenix on 2008-03-28
I built an Arcade Machine based on a magazine article ([http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/9732](http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/9732)) I had everything working properly but I switched video cards because the one that was in it is a dual head (Maxtrox MGA G400/G450) that I wanted to use for one of my desktops. So I put in one (nVidia NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400]) that I had laying around. I am running Ubuntu 7.10 with Wah!Cade as a front end and xMame as the emulator. I start the front end with an ~/.xsession set to wahcade so that way it does not actually go into the desktop environment.

The problem I am having now after switching graphics cards is that the resolution or driver for the nVidia NV11 [GeForce2 MX/MX 400] is not loading before the ~/.xsession or wahcade starts, leaving it at low resolution and no graphic acceleration. Therefor not properly displaying the Wah!Cade front end (low resolution) and not have enough graphics processing power to run the emulator (xMame) Now once the GDM starts and loads the graphics card it works fine. I don't want to run it inside the GDM with a startup script I want to run it outside the GDM with an ~/.xsession.

I am not new to Linux or Ubuntu. I all ways seem to find an answer to my problems reading the forums or in one of my books. I cant seem to find anything to resolve this problem making this my first post.

Thanks

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2008-03-28
when you say low resolution, do you mean colors, screen size, text size?

---

### Post by murderthephoenix on 2008-03-28
Screen size 640x480 I believe.

But i just figured out the answer to my own question.

First I deleted my xorg.conf file with # rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
To get rid of the old graphics card settings.
Then I configured a new xorg.conf file with # Xorg -configure
And finally pasted the results back to where the original file was with # cp /root/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf 
Rebooted the system # shutdown -r now
and now it works fine.

Thanks

---

