---
title: "./configure: Location of &quot;tcl.h&quot;: not found"
date: 2009-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by klirka on 2009-05-31
Hi, 

I would like to install a program (Scid), but get this error response: 

   configure: Makefile configuration program for Scid                                          
    Renaming "Makefile" to "Makefile.bak"                                                   
    Tcl/Tk version: 8.5                                                                     
    Your operating system is: Linux 2.6.28-11-generic                                       
    Location of "tcl.h": not found                                                          
    Location of "tk.h": not found                                                           
    Location of Tcl 8.5 library: /usr/lib                                                   
    Location of Tk 8.5 library: /usr/lib                                                    
    Location of X11 library: /usr/lib                                                       
    Checking if your system already has zlib installed: no.                                 
Not all settings could be determined!                                                       
The default Makefile was written.                                                           
You will need to edit it before you can compile Scid.     

----
So far the error message. Now my question: where do I find tcl.h and tk.h, and what do I have to do?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-05-31
Install tcl8.5-dev : tk8.5-dev

> Checking if your system already has zlib installed: no
maybe wouldn't hurt to install zlib1g-dev either

search in synaptic for all (noting that there are several tcl and tk versions available

Also note that scid is avilable in the ubuntu repo, if that version isn't what you want then this should help
 ```
sudo apt-get build-dep scid
```

or if you wish the build-deps not to be marked for autoremove (intrepid and probably jaunty

```
sudo apt-get build-dep scid -o APT::Get::Build-Dep-Automatic=false
```

---

### Post by klirka on 2009-05-31
Hello mc4man,

gorgeous, thank you so much! Indeed, after installing those 3 dev files (tcl, tk, zlib), all went fast, and Scid is now up and running.

I am new to this forum, it was my first question. Now do I give you credit, and how? Or do I just close this thread, mark it as successfully solved, and how would I do that?

Thank you
klirka

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-05-31
> do I just close this thread, mark it as successfully solved, and how would I do that?


There used to be a way to directly marked a thread as solved, was removed because of database issues.
good enough that you responded to note the issue is resolved, (and hopefully stays that way.

There's probably a way to edit your thread title and prepend with a [solved] ./configure...ect, though I've never done so

---

