---
title: ".deb Nightmare"
date: 2011-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xreign on 2011-10-25
](*,)So first off i'm going to introduce myself. I'm Chris. I'm a new IT major and have been recently discovering the wonderful world of Ubuntu 10.10. However every rabbit hole I tend to fall into ends up being a bottomless pit. To the point.
 
 
I don't have internet and my droid has tethering capabilities. So. I planned on installing easy tether to my phone, which I did and then again on my laptop running Ubuntu 10.10. I have the .deb file on the desktop and have tried running the whole 
 
sudo dpkg -i easytether.deb 
and it states that
"errors were encountered while processing:"
or it says
"cannot access archive: No such file or directory"
 
I've gone through every thread i could possibly find and i've tried what they have stated.
 
I've double clicked the package and hit run with Ubuntu Software Center, but when i do that nothing happens. Literally nothing but the waiting icon showing up for 3 minutes then nadda.
 
I'm thinking I have the command input wrong as to the directory location however i'm confused to the application of directory. 
 
how is it put in?
 
sudo dpkg -i desktop/easytether.deb
 
desktop/easytether.deb sudo dpkg -i desktop/easytether.deb
...
 
I just dont get it. I've mimicked everything i've seen applied my own understanding of how it should work. 
 
I'm tapping. Could someone explain to me what obvious mistake i'm making?

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-10-25
Are you running a 32-bit or 64-bit version of Ubuntu 10.10? 

> **xreign said:**
> ](*,)So first off i'm going to introduce myself. I'm Chris. I'm a new IT major and have been recently discovering the wonderful world of Ubuntu 10.10. However every rabbit hole I tend to fall into ends up being a bottomless pit. To the point.
 
 
I don't have internet and my droid has tethering capabilities. So. I planned on installing easy tether to my phone, which I did and then again on my laptop running Ubuntu 10.10. I have the .deb file on the desktop and have tried running the whole 
 
sudo dpkg -i easytether.deb 
and it states that
"errors were encountered while processing:"
or it says
"cannot access archive: No such file or directory"
 
I've gone through every thread i could possibly find and i've tried what they have stated.
 
I've double clicked the package and hit run with Ubuntu Software Center, but when i do that nothing happens. Literally nothing but the waiting icon showing up for 3 minutes then nadda.
 
I'm thinking I have the command input wrong as to the directory location however i'm confused to the application of directory. 
 
how is it put in?
 
sudo dpkg -i desktop/easytether.deb
 
desktop/easytether.deb sudo dpkg -i desktop/easytether.deb
...
 
I just dont get it. I've mimicked everything i've seen applied my own understanding of how it should work. 
 
I'm tapping. Could someone explain to me what obvious mistake i'm making?

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-10-25
Put .deb on Desktop:
```
cd Desktop
``````
ls
```Make sure only .deb on Desktop.
```
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```If it does not install something is amiss with .deb package and or as previous post do you
have right architecture (32 or 64 bit.)

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-25
**[COLOR=Red]Wrong:[/COLOR]**```
sudo dpkg -i desktop/easytether.deb
```
**[COLOR=Lime]Right:[/COLOR]**```
sudo dpkg -i ./Desktop/easytether.deb
```
Good luck,
 - search

---

### Post by xreign on 2011-10-26
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> **[COLOR=red]Wrong:[/COLOR]**```
sudo dpkg -i desktop/easytether.deb
```
**[COLOR=lime]Right:[/COLOR]**```
sudo dpkg -i ./Desktop/easytether.deb
```
Good luck,
- search
 
 
THANKS AGAIN SO MUCH!
 
You have no idea how much you've helped me. I'm trying to learn the ins and outs of this system and it seems that there are notes scattered about. 
 
thanks again,
 Chris

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-10-26
Some usefull readings below following my links :)

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-10-26
Sure, no problem.

A little explanation:

First off, Linux  directories are a little different in that "/" is the "root" of the file  system. It's basically like the C:\ drive of Windows, except there are  important differences such as that external devices are accessed  differently (they're not assigned a drive letter, but are instead  assigned their own device file and subfolder (mount point) somewhere  within "/").

So, for example, the home directory for a user named  "marshmallow" would be /home/marshmallow. This is basically  Marshmallow's own little (or big) folder where he can put files and  settings.
Or, if Marshmallow decided to plug in a USB thumb drive,  the system would "mount" the partition on the thumb drive to some place  like /media/thumb; note that the directory name begins with "/" because  that's the root file system.

When you open up a terminal, you get  a command prompt which, when you run a command, will affect the files  in your home folder because that is the directory in which the terminal  is working by default. If you wanted to work in a different directory,  you would CD there like in Windows.

Your home folder is designated universally with a tilde: ```
~
```

You desktop folder is simply a sub directory within your home folder, and it is "/home/[FONT=Times New Roman]{here would be the name of the user}[/FONT]/Desktop". Anything you put there will appear on your desktop, unless you're using some weird KDE activity thing.

Anyway.  You open up a terminal, and to access your desktop folder, you simply  add a dot . to the front of the desktop directory to indicate that,  since the terminal is already working in your home folder and not your  root directory, the affected files will be the directory in front of the  dot that is in the directory in which the terminal is working. For  example, here's a command for a directory:```
ls /usr/share
```Even  though the terminal is working in your home directory, it will see the  file name beginning with "/" and know where to find the subdirectory  "usr" and the subdirectory "share" in the root file system. However,  this is a bit different:```
ls ./Documents
```If the terminal is  working in the home directory, then the command will affect those files  which are in the Desktop subdirectory. In other words, the dot . is  replaced with the directory in which the terminal is working.

To change the directory in which the terminal is working, type:```
cd {new directory}
```
 - search

---

### Post by ebozzz on 2011-10-30
Installing Easytether was easy for me. I simply installed it on my phone first then I downloaded the appropriate .deb file (driver) from their site. 

[http://www.mobile-stream.com/easytether/drivers.html](http://www.mobile-stream.com/easytether/drivers.html)

After completing the download all I had to do was double-click on the .deb file to complete the installation on my laptop. 

The connect I open a terminal and type the following:

```
easytether connect
```

I works like a charm and I get awesome speeds! I never saw anything mentioning that you installed the driver on your PC. Did you complete that process?

:EDIT: I just read your post again. I see where you have the file on your desktop. Just double-click it and it should start the install. It should work if you have GDebi installed.

---

