---
title: "11.10 freezing randomly"
date: 2011-11-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by riaketty on 2011-11-26
I know this has been hashed out everywhere but I can't find any help that makes sense/has helped.

11.10 freezes randomly. Mouse doesn't move, numlock doesn't light up, magic sysreq doesn't do a darn thing. the only thing i've found that might apply would be that I am running a radeon X1300. 

Where do I start to figure this out? It happens once every few days, maybe. I'm never doing anything strenuous (gaming, etc). Just surfing websites 90% of the time. A few days ago it froze 3 times within an hour, but I haven't been able to reproduce that.

This is getting extremely annoying and I am a fairly new linux user, so I'm not even sure where to start.

> 00:1f.2 RAID bus controller: Intel Corporation 82801 SATA RAID Controller (rev 02)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 02)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV516 [Radeon X1300/X1550 Series]
01:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV516 [Radeon X1300 Pro] (Secondary)
04:04.0 Network controller: Intersil Corporation ISL3874 [Prism 2.5]/ISL3872 [Prism 3] (rev 01
If you ask for logs, etc, please please actually tell me how to GET them. I've never dealt with anything other than basic commands.

Thanks so much!

---

### Post by coolcats on 2011-11-26
The problem could be your computer. I know somebody who had windows and ubuntu on their computer, and they both crashed. He cleaned out his laptop, and it crashed once, and hasn't crashed since.

---

### Post by riaketty on 2011-11-26
> **coolcats said:**
> The problem could be your computer. I know somebody who had windows and ubuntu on their computer, and they both crashed. He cleaned out his laptop, and it crashed once, and hasn't crashed since.

I thought about that, but we just had our old HDD (with windows on it) go bad. We got a new one and didn't want to pay for windows so we installed Ubuntu.

When we switched the HDDs, we really really cleaned out the cpu itself. Dust, fan, all. So I doubt thats the problem. :(

---

