---
title: "11.04 bugs?"
date: 2011-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PCLinuxGuy on 2011-05-12
I've downloaded Ubuntu 11.04 Natty in both 32 and 64 bit flavors to try.  I used the startup disk creator in Ubuntu 10.04 (my OS) in order to make a Live USB (without persistence enabled) and with the 64bit version it sits at the splash screen with the dots moving under the ubuntu name and logo. It sits that way for half an hour before i tired of waiting. I hit the esc key and it was showing a ton of tty respawning too fast messages.  I did see that 64bit has those bugs so then i tried the 32 bit version and sad to say it also did not run. It would tell me that it couldn't be mounted and ran as root@Ubuntu in some sort of recovery shell. I tried this on an older Dell Inspiron 1501 with an AMD Athlon 64 x2 and on an Acer Aspire with an Intel Celeron 900 and the same result. I then tried Linux mint 10 on the stick after wiping it and it ran fine  (the stick was cleared and in fat32 format. not a sandisk with U3.. its a PNY Optima ' Attache' 4GB stick. 11.04 is the only distro that's failed to work on the stick and both machines.  Is this some sort of bug with the download or the way it was written?  I'm at a loss as I wanted to 'test drive' it before seeing if i wanted to upgrade to it.  Now I'm not sure if I want to based on the horrible bugs and glitches.

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2011-05-12
Difficult post to read...HIGH print density.

Just some honest and well intentioned feedback.

---

### Post by PCLinuxGuy on 2011-05-12
just finding it frustrating that after many downloads and tries, 11.04 fails to run as either 32 or 64 bit.   in 64bit the tty(insert number here) respawns alot and gives it problems loading the OS.  in 32 bit it can't or fails to mount and puts me into a recovery mode/shell that is CLI .  And yes it seems problems affect few which is nice, save for when you're the one having the issue :) 

not much of a step by step and I provided what I've done and can again.  downloaded 32 and 64bit off ubuntu website. Used startup disk creater to make the live usb stick. rebooted, set it uo boot from usb , inserted usb and powered on. 32bit seems like it is about to work before throwing me the mount error (said above) and putting me in CLI mode as root.  64bit doesn't do anything besides stay at the splash screen for time on end

(not frustrated with the community, just the new 11.04 ubuntu)

---

### Post by PCLinuxGuy on 2011-06-21
after giving Canonical more time to iron out the bugs, I finally managed to get the 11.04 32bit version to work.

---

