---
title: "Screen moves slowly"
date: 2008-06-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fuatsungur on 2008-06-26
Hi, my screen moves slowly. For example, when i go to the bottom of firefox page, the screen moves slowly not streaming. If i install my VGA card driver ( ATI x1600xt ) is this problem solved? Or, is there anything i have to do it?
Thanks for responses.

---

### Post by justleen on 2008-06-26
If you're already using that card, yes, its a good idea to install the drivers.

IF your using another card then the x1600: what kind of card is that? do you have the desktop effects enabled (try turning them off)?  Big resolution perhaps?

---

### Post by fuatsungur on 2008-06-27
i downloaded latest ati x1600xt driver, but nowly, i suppose that this driver is not installed exactly. Becuase, now movement of windows is slower than before i've installed driver. How can i uninstall my graphics card driver and how can i set default video card as my video card?

Thanks for responses.

---

### Post by 6205 on 2008-06-27
Talking abou Firefox, no driver will help you, only another OS. You will never get on linux so speedy scrolling like in Windows. Linux Firefox is a shame. It eats too much of CPU, even if you turn off smooth scrolling, scrolling is still slow like a snail.

If you demant such a basic thing like browser with low CPU comsumption and realy fast srolling, you're out of luck...

---

### Post by fuatsungur on 2008-06-27
In fact, i installed wrong drivers. My vga drivers is Intel 945 GM Expreess, it has already installed, but i could try to install ATI driver. Then, i run this ATI Driver Setup, it is installed. Then, the screen moves slowly now. Not only firefox screen, the terminal screen gedit screen, movement of all of screens are slow. Before i've installed that driver, this movement was fast. Also, i checked the using cpu and memory in system monitor, only %10 percent of cpu is used and 500 mb of 2GB ram is used. There is no reason to slow movements. Do you have any advice?

---

### Post by fuatsungur on 2008-06-27
Of course, if i do not open extra effects, this movements are fast. But, before if i open extra effects in desktop preferences, there was no slow movements.

---

### Post by enchesss on 2008-06-27
what sort of motherboard do you have?
if you are using a seperate video card (ATI) then you may have to blasklist the motherboard drivers.
becuase you have installed the wrong drivers it may be a lot easier to do a fresh installation of ubuntu.
Make sure you are willing to do a fresh intall if the following does not work!

go to /etc/modprob.d/blacklist

you need to add:

blacklist agpgart
blacklist intel_agp

to the bottom of the page

you may need to edit as root and save (but save original as backup_blacklist first)

the go to:

system-> ration -> harware drivers

enable the ATI drivers and reboot

---

### Post by fuatsungur on 2008-06-27
suppose that, i added the **ati driver** to blacklist. Because i am using iNTEL 945 GM ON BOARD VGA CARD. I installed wrong vga driver, it is ATI. THen, I uninstall ATI driver in synaptic package manager. THen reinstall Intel VGA 945 in Synaptic Paclkage manager. But problem is still going on.

---

### Post by fuatsungur on 2008-06-27
My xorg.conf file is below:

==========================

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"tr"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	"intl"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

======================

---

### Post by fuatsungur on 2008-06-27
Also; **glxinfo | grep render** is :

[B]
root@fuat-laptop:/home/fuat# glxinfo | grep render
direct rendering: No (If you want to find out why, try setting LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose)
OpenGL renderer string: Mesa DRI Intel(R) 945GM 20061017 x86/MMX/SSE2
root@fuat-laptop:/home/fuat# 
[/B]

---

### Post by enchesss on 2008-06-27
if you are not using the ati card and it is not in the computer at all then:

by the looks of your xorg.conf it may not be configures properly.

this is probably becuase of all the changes you have made.

you can try the advice given in the actual file output (i have printed teh first few lines of you xor below:

the lines that are important are:

# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

if the screen goes back to a command line then try typing "startx"

i would still recommend a complete reinstall though. You should be prepared to do this when these problems occur so make a backup of imoortant files.

file is below:

==========================

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

---

### Post by fuatsungur on 2008-07-03
when i try "sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg", i am getting this error or warning : 
[B]
fuat@fuat-laptop:~/Desktop/sqldeveloper/opt/sqldeveloper$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
[sudo] password for fuat: 
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080603082558
fuat@fuat-laptop:~
[/B]

there is nothing, the problem is still going on. I've tried to install &#305;Ntel 945 gm VGA Card from synaptic package manager. It is installed but the error is going on. I am bored to ask this question over and over, how can i fix this?

Thanks for all responses.

---

