---
title: ".xfd files (Pureedge Viewer)"
date: 2007-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kop316 on 2007-01-14
Hey everyone,

I was wondering if I have any other US military personnel in this forum. I have these .xfd files that the military uses and I could not find a Linux opener for it. I could only fine a program called Pureedge Viewer, but it only works for Windows.

Does anyone know if there is an open-source version of this?

Thanks

---

### Post by justinmiller87 on 2007-11-13
I know it's been a while since you posted, but I have an answer for you. I know of no FOSS alternative, but PureEdge works perfectly under WINE, the latest version anyway. I don't know about any prior version.

---

### Post by Slurm on 2007-11-17
Justin,

Could you post something more on how you got PureEdge to work under WINE?  My falls apart big time when I try and do this.  I am in dire need of this program.

Thanks,

Slurm

---

### Post by justinmiller87 on 2007-11-20
> **Slurm said:**
> Justin,

Could you post something more on how you got PureEdge to work under WINE?  My falls apart big time when I try and do this.  I am in dire need of this program.

Thanks,

Slurm
I had no problems really. I am running 7.10 and version 0.9.49 from the Wine repositories. I am emulating XP. If you're just running Wine from the Gutsy repositories, I don't know if it will work. I haven't tried to print from it yet, but it downloaded, installed, and loaded forms just fine.

If you don't have the Wine repositories, add these from terminal:
```

wget -q http://wine.budgetdedicated.com/apt/387EE263.gpg -O- | sudo apt-key add -
sudo wget http://wine.budgetdedicated.com/apt/sources.list.d/gutsy.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/winehq.list
```
(Change gutsy to whatever distro you're running, or go to [http://www.winehq.org/site/download-deb](http://www.winehq.org/site/download-deb) )

---

### Post by jsh-hk on 2008-01-23
I'm running Gutsy and Wine 0.9.53, and was able to install PureEdge 6.5; however, whenever I open a form, I can't type in any of the fields.  If a field requires a selection (like selecting the type of action on a DA 4187), I can click one of them with the mouse and get an X, but any fields that require typing don't work for me. I get a cursor, but nothing ever shows up when I type.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by psyopper on 2008-02-09
Interesting, I'll have to give this a shot myself. Do you happen to know if it will let me digitally sign files as well?

[EDIT] Yep, it sorta works in Wine 0.9.40, but like jsh-jk I can't type in the fields. I'll have to look into updating to a newer version of Wine.

---

### Post by m2austin on 2008-06-11
This thread is way old, but I'm also struggling to get Pure Edge to work in Ubuntu 8.04. Did anyone find a solution for this?

---

