---
title: ".pdf Adobe Reader 8 in Hardy 8.04"
date: 2009-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jsland on 2009-11-22
If not satisfied with evince or xpdf it turns out to be some work getting Adobe Reader to work now that synaptic no longer works.  The following is given to provide a thread on steps that may speed getting the job done.

  Download the linux version of pdf reader from the adobe site.

  Reader 8 was the latest version I was able to get working (Nov. 2009)

  After downloading from the Adobe site and installing to the desktop some difficulty was run into getting Reader 8 to become the default app.

The following steps were taken.

  Find any .pdf file and right click the file.

  Select Properties

  Click the Open With tab at the top.  Evince was the only version shown.

  Select Add

  Below the window showing possible choices, near the very bottom, is a link ¨Use a custom command¨

  Browse to /opt/Adobe/Reader8 and click open

  Reader 8 should now be shown as a possible selection in the Open With window.

  Click the radio button to set as default.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2009-11-22
You can get the same reader in synaptic it is called acroread, you just have to have the Canonical repository clicked on in software sources. Good post as far as making it the default, although with the adobe install it ask you at least in the 9 version if you want to make it the default, or it asks this if opened empty or with a pdf.

---

