---
title: "2.6.17 much slower than Ubuntu 6.06 2.6.15-25, even with ck1"
date: 2006-06-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by flabbah on 2006-06-24
Hello,

I'm noticing a big performance gap between the the Ubuntu 6.06 Stock 2.6.15.25 kernel, and my own hand compiled one : the 2.6.17.1 kernel appears to be much slower.

I've compiled my own kernels for years now, so I usually do the right things. I also applied the ck1 patchset with no joy (actually, I think it made it worse).

Here are some numbers of recursively calculating md5 sums on a directory structure of about 4G in size with md5deep.

stock 2.6.15-25 (3 samples)

real        user        sys
0m53.674    0m15.745    0m2.792
0m56.723    0m15.641    0m2.628
1m0.773     0m16.801    0m3.060

Vanilla 2.6.17.1 (w/o ck1, configuration from 2.6.15-25 &  make oldconfig, no changes)
1m28.268    0m23.761    0m5.612
1m28.027    0m24.110    0m5.580
1m28.733    0m24.154    0m5.536

Applying the ck1 patches degrade performance further

I tried:
    SMP enabled and disabled, Hyperthreading schedule enabled & disabled
    Removing all drivers except ones that I use
    Only using CFQ scheduler
    Disable kernel debugging

Here are some of the more relevant perameters:
    
   [*] Symmetric multi-processing support
       Subarchitecture Type (PC-compatible)  --->
       Processor family (Pentium-4/Celeron(P4-based)/Pentium-4 M/Xeon)  --->
   [ ] Generic x86 support
   [*] HPET Timer Support
   (4) Maximum number of CPUs (2-255)
   [*] SMT (Hyperthreading) scheduler support
   [ ] Multi-core scheduler support
   Preemption Model (Preemptible Kernel (Low-Latency Desktop))  --->
   [*] Preempt The Big Kernel Lock
   [*] Machine Check Exception
       <*>   Check for non-fatal errors on AMD Athlon/Duron / Intel Pentium 4
       [*]   check for P4 thermal throttling interrupt.
   < > Toshiba Laptop support
   < > Dell laptop support
   [*] Enable X86 board specific fixups for reboot
   <M> /dev/cpu/microcode - Intel IA32 CPU microcode support
   <M> /dev/cpu/*/msr - Model-specific register support
   <M> /dev/cpu/*/cpuid - CPU information support
       Firmware Drivers  --->
       High Memory Support (4GB)  --->
       Memory model (Flat Memory)  --->
   [*] Allocate 3rd-level pagetables from highmem
   [*] Math emulation
   [*] MTRR (Memory Type Range Register) support
   [ ] Boot from EFI support (EXPERIMENTAL)
   [*] Enable kernel irq balancing
   [*] Use register arguments
   [*] Enable seccomp to safely compute untrusted bytecode

I figure something may have gotten messed up with 'make oldconfig' - if anybody has any ideas, I would appreciate it. Also, what is the easiest way to get the 2.6.17 .config from Edgy Eft?

Thanks very much

---

### Post by JoWilly on 2006-06-24
Have you tried installing the edgy 2.6.17 to see how it goes ? (temporarily change the dapper references for the main repo from dapper to edgy in /etc/apt/sources.list, and then install the kernel, and revert back).

The .config will be in /boot after you have installed the edgy kernel.

If you don't want to install the edgy kernel (or if you want to install it manually) you will find the .config in the kernel deb package (open it with file-roller to extract the .config file). You can get the deb from the pool in archive.ubuntu.com.

---

