---
title: ".deb files wont install"
date: 2008-03-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cozadaman on 2008-03-21
Okay, so i have previously installed/used *.deb file and worked with no problem.
Now i open it, press install, loading bars flash across then it closes. without installing. i thought it was the package i got another package for different software completely unrelated and it does the same thing.
I've reopened my old *.deb packages and they now do the same thing. Nothing is new, i haven't installed or changed anything. i downloaded another version of a deb program and that doesnt work either... 
Any advise for the young believer?

---

### Post by justleen on 2008-03-21
can you try to install it from a terminal, and post the output?

```

sudo dpkg -i <filename>.deb

```

---

### Post by cozadaman on 2008-03-21
okay so i punch it in and comes up with:

coza@ubuntu:~$ sudo dpkg -i /home/coza/Linux DL's/wine-doors_0.1.2_all.deb
> 

The cursor is flashing so i can type, every time i hit enter a ">" pops up blow the next... but its still just sittling here doing nothing...

Any other suggestions, ive left it for 5 mins so far, ill post whatever (if ever) the terminal spits something out).

Do you recon i should uninstall my deb extracting apps and reinstall them?

---

### Post by justleen on 2008-03-21
there is a ' in the file name.. you need to escape that. your shell is expecting a closing '

sudo dpkg -i /home/coza/Linux DL\'s/wine-doors_0.1.2_all.deb

or

sudo dpkg -i "/home/coza/Linux DL's/wine-doors_0.1.2_all.deb"

or 

or mv  /home/coza/Linux DL\'s /home/coza/Linux DLs

---

### Post by cozadaman on 2008-03-22
Its amazing how simple or some errors can be. All works now, even just opening package in the gui works.

thanks heaps champ.  :)

---

