---
title: "12.10 LiveCD on USB?"
date: 2012-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aquascrotum on 2012-10-28
Hi all - so now that the ISO image exceeds a CD capacity, how do I try the LiveCD before installing?

I don't have a DVDR / RW, I do have a USB stick, and I don't have a Windows install to use any of the linuxpendrive exe type applications.

Is there a quick an easy how-to?  Does the procedure involve installing the full OS to the USB drive and booting from there (which would cause a problem as my USB isnt big enough) or can I boot into the ISO on the USB stick?

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-10-28
What do you have ?

Do you have an existing Ubuntu install from which you can run Startup Disk Creator ? Failing that try unetbootin.

[http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/](http://unetbootin.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by aquascrotum on 2012-10-28
I have 11.10... I didnt know startup disk creator existed or what it did!

Will give that a lash and see how I get one, thank you!

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-10-28
Startup Disk Creator will create a Live USB just like having a Live CD, with an added benefit in that you have the option to set a persistance file, this means you can save files and settings to the Live USB.

---

### Post by Sadi58 on 2012-10-28
I prefer the MultiSystem utility available from [http://liveusb.info](http://liveusb.info) which lets me also have Parted Magic, including Clonezilla, ready to make regular disk/partition backups.

But I wonder if it's advisable (and how) to upgrade Ubuntu using Live USB.
I tried grub options maybe-ubiquity and even only-ubiquity but I can never see that screen with several installation options, including a system upgrade.

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-10-28
> **Sadi58 said:**
> but I can never see that screen with several installation options, including a system upgrade.

Not sure I follow what you mean, you need to boot the computer with the Live USB.

You may want to open a new thread if you are drifting off the OPs topic.

---

### Post by aquascrotum on 2012-10-28
> **Sadi58 said:**
> I prefer the MultiSystem utility available from [http://liveusb.info](http://liveusb.info) which lets me also have Parted Magic, including Clonezilla, ready to make regular disk/partition backups.

But I wonder if it's advisable (and how) to upgrade Ubuntu using Live USB.
I tried grub options maybe-ubiquity and even only-ubiquity but I can never see that screen with several installation options, including a system upgrade.

Am not trying to upgrade using Live USB, just to test 12.10 works with my hardware.  I'd previously tried upgrading this particular machine via the software updaterupgrade from 11.10 to 12.04 (without a LiveCD test first) only to wind up turning the computer into an elaborate paperweight - am not making that mistake again.

I used StartupDisk Creator on my USB but when I try booting into it I'm getting a startup error - any ideas?

---

### Post by DeadlyOats on 2012-10-30
I too, am trying to test Kubuntu 12.10 from the liveUSB flash drive thingy.  Even though I set my BIOS to start from USB drive before the HDD, It boots straight from my HDD.  I don't have Windows installed on my machine, and the USB flashdrive won't boot.  I used the Start-up disk creator on Kubuntu 12.04.

This *is* the same problem you're having, except you're trying Ubuntu 12.10.  Am I correct, aquascrotum?

---

### Post by Cheesemill on 2012-10-30
I've often had USB sticks that won't boot when using Startup Disk Creator.

I find that using [Unetbootin]("apt://unetbootin") instead give me far better results.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2012-10-30
I did this very thing a couple of days ago, and like with previous Ubuntu versions, I found the pendrivelinux.com site to be invaluable.

They provide a Universal USB Installer that will create a bootable USB stick using whatever ISO image file you point it to.

I did this with 12.10 and used it in "liveUSB" mode without problems.  I also later installed from the same USB stick.

---

### Post by varunendra on 2012-10-31
> **Cheesemill said:**
> I've often had USB sticks that won't boot when using Startup Disk Creator.I see this remark very frequently, and have also seen posts where the Universal Installer and even Unetbootin also fail (the usb being tested on multiple computers, hence 'actual' cases of failed attempts). I must say though that cases of Unetbootin failure have been rare as far as I have seen.

While I have tested all these three tools (almost always successfully, the only failed attempts were those where the pen-drive could not be made bootable with 'Any' tool or method - suggesting the pen-drive model/brand itself was buggy) just to see how they work, I always prefer the inbuilt Startup Disk Creator and have never needed to switch to others. And let me also emphasize that I have tested all the live iso's of default Ubuntu 32 bit since 9.10 (maybe a couple of point releases missing), plus some versions of lubuntu, xubuntu and mint.

So I wonder why it fails for some people. In one case I found that the OP was using the **Startup Disk Creator of his current installation** to create a live usb **using an iso of a different version**. While this should not be a problem, unfortunately sometimes it is (it was 10.04 or some daily build or point release of it, and there was also a bug report regarding that). Perhaps it is the way I use it so it has never failed me -

I use the target iso itself in a VM to create the live usb, and suggest the same to everyone as my most trusted way. Steps are-

[LIST=1]
[*]Boot a Virtual Machine from the iso
[*]connect the target usb to the VM
[*]make sure it is pre-formatted as fat32 (some have reported they need fat16), If not, do so using gparted.
[*]Open Startup Disk Creator and let it use the source cd (actually the iso, which the VM 'sees' as the live cd).
[*]Select the amount of persistent space (if needed) and click on "Make Startup Disk". Do not allow it to re-format the disk as I've seen it sometimes confuses the program.
[/LIST]
If using a VM is a problem, my next preference is Unetbootin (based on the amount of [Solved] threads because of it).

---

