---
title: "10.4b2 updated won't start."
date: 2010-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alanhoyle on 2010-04-21
I have a Thinkpad X40.  I've installed Ubuntu 10.4b2 Netbook Remix on it.  I have two issues with it:

1.  If I boot to kernel 2.6.32-21, the machine locks up hard when X attempts to start.  The keyboard becomes totally locked (ctrl-alt-f1and the screen is blank.  2.6.32-20 works fine.  (thanks to IRC for telling me how to get to GRUB when it's set to auto-boot.) 

2.  I had 10.4 alpha3 on it originally, and the 3d netbook launcher was dramatically faster than the currently updated version of it. 

Related to #1:  how can I set GRUB to automatically boot to the older kernel?  Where should I be looking in logs to see if there's something I can report effectively?

---

### Post by DawieS on 2010-04-21
I just had the same problem. It seems as if my graphics card does not support the new default graphical GRUB display. My machine locks up hard, and I had to unplug the power to be able to reboot.

I found the following solution:
Boot from another working installation, or a Live CD. Mount the 10.4beta2 partition, and enter the following in a terminal:

```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```Uncomment the following line, by removing the '**#** ' character:

```
# GRUB_TERMINAL=console
```Save and reboot. The grub menu should now work as before.

---

### Post by alanhoyle on 2010-04-21
I figured out how to update Grub config:  edit /etc/default/grub and set grub_default=2.

---

### Post by alanhoyle on 2010-04-21
It's actually not the GRUB setup.  I have grub set to boot quietly and it never actually switches to graphics mode at that point.  The issue is after boot when the system tries to startx.  

If I boot into the latest kernel (2.6.32-21), the machine locks up hard if I let it do a normal boot or if I do a recovery boot and type "startx" at a command line.  If I boot into 2.6.32-20 or -19, startx works fine.  

Also, it seems the 3d slowness issue is related to the kernel as well.  Under -20, the 3d netbook launcher is plenty fast.

---

