---
title: "nvidia glx module still loading after removing nvidia hardware and packages"
date: 2008-09-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-09-11
I removed my nvidia video card in favour of the on-board ati video. After installing xorg-driver-fglrx and running sudo aticonfig --initial -f, gdm fails to start. So I boot the live cd and do some poking around:

$ grep -i nv /media/disk/var/log/Xorg.0.log.old 
(II) Module glx: vendor="NVIDIA Corporation"
(II) NVIDIA GLX Module  173.14.12  Thu Jul 17 18:36:30 PDT 2008
(EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)

Why is X still trying to load my nvidia glx module after purging all my nvidia-related packages?

Any clues as to fixing this? The open-source radeon driver gets me into X with proper resolution, but I would like some hardware acceleration.

Thanks,
db

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-09-12
Post your xorg.conf

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-09-12
As I was uploading this file I noticed the lines saying that it was "generated by failsafeDexconf, using values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode". So I tried the following to try to start with a fresh file:

$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080912051410

$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg-video-ati 

$ sudo aticonfig --initial -f
Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf
	Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a Driver line.
Uninitialised file found, configuring.
Using /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf
	Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a Driver line.
Segmentation fault

so I reverted to my previous xorg.conf, replaced "fglrx" with "radeon", and I'm back to a working 1920x1200 resolution.

db

---

### Post by ajmorris on 2008-09-12
hi there, 
just a change to your xorg.conf file...:

you have:
```
 Section "Module"
          Load  "GLcore"
          Load  "dri"
          Load  "v4l"
```

Change it to:

```
Section "Module"
         Load  "GLcore"
         Load  "dri"
         Load  "v4l"
         Load  "glx"
```

Also, what is the ouput of ```
sudo fglrxinfo
```

Also, have you tried this wiki page for setting up your ati card?:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-09-12
> **ajmorris said:**
> hi there, 
just a change to your xorg.conf file...:

Change it to:

```
Section "Module"
         Load  "GLcore"
         Load  "dri"
         Load  "v4l"
         Load  "glx"
```

Did that, no X and still seeing the nvida errors in the log.

> Also, what is the ouput of ```
sudo fglrxinfo
```

```

$ sudo fglrxinfo
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual!

XIO:  fatal IO error 11 (Resource temporarily unavailable) on X server ">P"
      after 10 requests (9 known processed) with 0 events remaining.

```
That's while running on vesa driver. I still can't get into X with the fglrx driver.

> Also, have you tried this wiki page for setting up your ati card?:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/ATI)

I tried it through the repositories. I'll try the ati.com method.

db

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-09-13
As I was backing up my system for a clean install I noticed 'nvidia' in my /etc/modules file. I didn't bother removing it to see if that would fix things, as I ultimately decided to go back with my nvidia card and do a clean install anyway. Thanks for the help.

db

---

