---
title: "10.04 server install"
date: 2010-07-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cool Javelin on 2010-07-03
OK, this is a rant, but, jeez, this is the twenty first century, lets prtend we have taken more then 2 steps outside the cave(man.)

Why can't Ubuntu (or any Linux install) ask all the questions first near the beginning of the install, THEN take the hours to do the work unsupervised?

How many of you have started to install, seen the install progressing, gone to dinner (or to bed) and come back only to find there is still another silly question to answer, then another hour or 2 of install then another question, then...

ASK ALL THE QUESTIONS FIRST !! How hard can that be?

Store them in a file if need be, then ask no more questions and have the install just finish and be done.

Ranting Mark.

---

### Post by robsoles on 2010-07-04
I've been disappointed by that myself on the odd occasion but something tells me I don't (re)spawn server installations as often as you do!

Depending on components you choose to install into your server you are relying on the work of many many people - if it was just a largish group then maybe they could coordinate well enough to cover every little package with each possible option up front but even that would probably introduce too many bugs to make it worth while! (In other words, it could be really really hard!)

The only installations I leave unattended and expect good results are 'desktop' flavors with nothing away from standard variation and I note that once the 10.04 LTS Desktop installer CD gets to the eighth step and I press the go button it doesn't stop till it asks if I want to keep testing or restart into my shiny new system.


I wish the Server flavored install media would contain an option to boot into a GUI with Server oriented tools for troubleshooting a server installation - I am not saying I want to install a Server with a GUI but simply using a GUI on a Server with errors can ease some process of finding the problem(s)!

---

