---
title: "12.10 Citrix receiver issues"
date: 2012-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bewarellamas on 2012-10-19
Just upgraded from Kubuntu 12.04 to Kubuntu 12.10 (32 bit install) and I am having a problem using the Citrix receiver.

When I launch a .ica file from firefox it shows the file download like normal and something flashes in the taskbar quickly and nothing happens after that.

The one time I did get an error is was something about ksmserver not running, but I can't consistently replicate that error.

I have unistalled/purged the ica client and libmotif and reinstalled both. The KDE desktop seems to be running fine and I have seen no other errors. I set the Citrix client to launch in windowed mode instead of seamless and that changed nothing.

I am running an i5, 4gb ram, using internal Intel graphics.

Everything worked fine before the upgrade so I am wondering if a dependency change and the Citrix package hasn't been updated for that. Any insight? Thanks

---

### Post by hazica on 2012-10-22
Same problem over here. Used to work smoothly (installed the 64 bit deb package from citrix.com) before the upgrade to 12.10. Now it just flashes briefly and crashes. Couldn't make anything of the crash report.

I reinstalled a couple of times, but the issues still remains.

What does work, though, is calling /opt/Citrix/ICAClient/wfcmgr from the command line. It opens a window. Opening stuff straight from the browser doesn't work though.

I'd appreciate any input on this.

Thanks

---

### Post by SVille72 on 2012-12-07
Did anyone get this working yet? I'm having the same issue. I'm able to login to the Citrix but when I try to connect the desktop doesn't open. Just some windows flash in the background very quickly and no error messages or anything show up..

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by KaiO on 2012-12-17
I have used the Citrix ica client through several (k)ubuntu generations and there has been a number of issues but I have always gotten it to work by googling & tweaking (up to and including (K)ubuntu 12.04).
But after my latest upgrade, to 12.10, I have not been able to use the icaclient at all.
I log in on the web and open a citrix session from the browser (FF).
My problem is that my session starts and my client opens a new instance - only to crash with a segfault error.
The unedited entry from the system log is:
```
17.12.2012 16.53.21	KaiObuntu	kernel	[269261.010208] wfica[8606]: segfault at 0 ip           (null) sp 00000000ff9af83c error 14 in wfica[8048000+15c000]
```

---

### Post by lugflev on 2012-12-25
Hi there!

Same problem here...

Running firefox as root solves it, but that's not a real solution...

Merry christmas,

Mike

---

### Post by DrSky on 2013-01-06
If have the same issue after Updating Linux Mint 13 KDE to 14 KDE (based on Kubuntu 12.10). Running Firefox as root doesn't fix the problem.
It seemed, that this issue only appears on KDE Distributions (Kubuntu or Linux Mint KDE-Edition).

Please help!

---

### Post by cabbage on 2013-01-11
I've just bumped into this issue first thing this morning when trying to work from home.

Citrix worked fine under 12.04 but crashes after upgrade to 12.10.

Oddly though, I was able to open a published applicaton OK, only the desktop session crashes.

Also running kubuntu... (32 bit).

---

### Post by pumo on 2013-01-25
crashing here too with kubuntu 12.10 64bit firefox 18.
but running firefox with root account it works.

---

### Post by hazica on 2013-01-29
Running as root does not fix the issue for me. I just get the flickering window and a citrix icon in the task bar for about 2 seconds. Might this be somehow theme-related? Could it have something to do with the interaction between KDE and Motif?

---

### Post by karolus80 on 2013-03-04
> **hazica said:**
> Running as root does not fix the issue for me. I just get the flickering window and a citrix icon in the task bar for about 2 seconds. Might this be somehow theme-related? Could it have something to do with the interaction between KDE and Motif?



Hi,
For me it worked after I've **changed the GTK widget style from oxygen-gtk to other** , for example clearlooks.
  (using  System Settings -> Application Appearance -> GTK+ Appearance "Control the style and fonts used by GTK+ applications in KDE ")


so it looks like a bug in the new kde theme for gtk .... sigh..

Karol

---

### Post by cabbage on 2013-03-04
Thank you karolus80! That works for me too!

I did find that I had to change the GTK 2 theme under Gtk Configuration for this to work - at first I just changed the GTK widget style.

I am happy - one less problem...

---

### Post by cabbage on 2013-03-04
Actually two less problems... I had a game that wouldn't run aswell ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2083061](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2083061)) but now it does!

Much happiness :-)

---

### Post by oenie on 2013-03-25
Make that 3 ... fixed my problem too !

---

### Post by kirmonkey on 2013-10-10
I can confirm this fix works too.

A note for later readers - this problem emerges (in my case) when one does the following:

System settings - application appearance - colours - options - apply colours to non-KDE applications (tick box on)

I had done this as Firefox had reverted to its fall-back theme. Following advice above I installed the Clearlooks theme (Old time Debian look!) and set that for GTK 2 and GTK3 in Application Appearance

Now, to work.

---

