---
title: "unable to access jar file"
date: 2012-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mitchnufc on 2012-05-07
I am trying to run a jar file from my terminal and

java -jar jarname

everytime it says unable to access jar file.

I have changed file permissions so its now executable and also have download JK7 and am using that as the default program to open but not having any luck

---

### Post by soumyabratapaul on 2012-05-07
> **mitchnufc said:**
> I am trying to run a jar file from my terminal and

java -jar jarname

everytime it says unable to access jar file.

I have changed file permissions so its now executable and also have download JK7 and am using that as the default program to open but not having any luck

The problem can occur due to multiple reasons. One of the major reason for for this is because by default Ubuntu does not let any executable run if not downloaded from a trusted source, in this case, the Software Center. Since you have already given permission to run this type of executable, the problem may be due  to no manifest files which is required by the jar file to run.

Have you created the jar file?

If yes then try this:

jar -cvfe <jar-file-name>.jar <main-class-name> <class-files>.class <other-files-required-by-program>

For example if I want to create a jar file clac.jar with main class Trig then I will write,

jar -cvfe clac.jar Trig Trig??.class Trig.java

P.S. :You must include all the class files generated by your java   program. Giving a close look you will see multiple class files being created with <class-name>$1.class and so on. So you must include all of them.

---

