---
title: "Ubuntu 8.04 Extremeley Slow.. Hardware? Video?"
date: 2008-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JoF00l on 2008-12-03
Hey guys, I'm going to preface this with how much I love Ubuntu and it's concept, I think if a person has a tiny bit of brainpower and patience there's a lot to get out of this OS and a lot of money to save, and a lot of greed ******** to avoid =]

I'm not a programmer or computer genius, but I have a basic understanding of computers in general and I'll be able to follow any instructions any of you might give me, just be as specific as possible since I'm a general linux newby I.E. Bad= install x, Good= go applications-->terminal->enter sudo apt get laid etc.

I ran 7.10 on a slower computer (slower as in my eee pc 2g surf goes faster ;)) than this before and it was much faster then my problems seem to be graphically related;

*Browsing (loading, scrolling down the pages is choppy, and right now the text that I'm typing is lagging behind me, I'm typing it faster than it appears on the screen.)
*Video Is Choppy
*When I visit a page like youtube, it seems that the data is retrieved fast (the bar on firefox fills up pretty quickly) but then rendering the page itself is quite sluggish.
*When the computer had XP, I would listen to songs on Youtube (people upload songs and just have a picture, no video), when I try to do that on here the load time is roughly the same for the red bar but the audio is CHOPPY CHOPPY CHOPPY.

I've done some searching and lurking, and what I think the problem **ISN'T**;

**Connection**- Did some tweaking because I had initial issue (wirless) but it says I'm getting a 54 mps connection to my router and 1+ mbps actual internet speed (sorry I know that's not the right term)
**Computer Speed Resources**-My computer has a 4 ghz intel dual core processor (2 @ 2.0 ghz), and 2gigs DDR2 ram (DDR 2 is roughly twice as fast as DDR if I understand correctly?). I leave the system monitor open and even when things start to slow down it's never much above 10%, the highest I've seen is about 34%.

I've read some similar problems people have had and it was with their video card, I bought this computer in the summer and it has an onboard video card (which I know typically isn't that great) but it's at something like 256 mb, and even if it's shared I think I have more than enough ram so that Ubuntu and simple processes should run smoothly. I think the problem is that I don't have the correct driver installed.

Two diagnostic runs I'm going to include are lspci and cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf, since the other video threads usually included those.

lspci:
> 00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ/P/PL Memory Controller Hub (rev 02)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 01)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 01)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
00:1d.1 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
00:1d.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
00:1d.3 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 01)
00:1d.7 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev e1)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GB/GR (ICH7 Family) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801GB/GR/GH (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) SMBus Controller (rev 01)
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 01)

> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"

Also: As I was typing this it was going even slower than slow, I was in the middle of downloading 8.10 and was going to run that on the live CD to see if it went any faster. I just paused the download, and things go faster (relatively) but still rather slow. I checked the system monitor while the download was going but it still said cpu usage at 10% and about 500 megs of ram, and that stayed consistant when I paused the download even though things went faster.

Thanks in advance to anyone who's going to help me out :P

---

### Post by JoF00l on 2008-12-03
anyone? :[

---

### Post by PierreDeKat on 2008-12-03
I'm afraid I can't be of much assistance, but I will see if I can get the ball rolling, and hopefully somebody else can pop in with more to add.

First, I've got an IBM Thinkcentre with onboard (Intel) video that works flawlessly. I went ahead and installed an Nvidia card anyway, since I already had it laying around. But while I was using the onboard video adapter, it worked quite well.

Of course, others may have a different experience with theirs.

Second, a lot of your complaints about things being slow seem to focus around the internet. Are we talking Firefox, here? And maybe lots of Flash involved?

I myself have had much better luck using Seamonkey. I've tried Firefox a couple times, but it's become so bloated since its early days that I can barely even recognize it anymore.

And Flash really sucks resources in Ubuntu. I tried all the plugins, and they pretty much all suck the life out of Ubuntu.

But one thing you can do to save a little of the sucking is install Flashblock and then only click on the Flash media that you actually want to see/hear. 

This allows you to bypass all of those resource-sucking Flash advertisements that you probably didn't want to see, anyway.

---

