---
title: "11.10 right click to create launcher???"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by spiky001 on 2011-10-16
I have just installed 11.10 the right click option to create a launcher has moved, where do I find it now thks

---

### Post by spiky001 on 2011-10-17
Bunp is there any way to make a launcher for a program in 11.10

---

### Post by crdlb on 2011-10-18
You can use the alacarte menu editor to create and edit launchers.

---

### Post by apollothethird on 2011-10-20
> **crdlb said:**
> You can use the alacarte menu editor to create and edit launchers.

I just installed alacarte and ran it.  It brings up a "Main Menu"  gui screen.  I clicked on the New Item button and appeared to create a launcher.  However I can't find a way to use the created Launcher.

Previous to 11.10 you could right click on the Desktop and get a create launcher option and it would make a file with the .Desktop extension.  You could click on it and launch a program or script file.  As far as I can see the alacarte is creating a menu entry, but I can't find the resulting Desktop file or any other way to use this entry.

Thanks in advance for any comments.

-- L. James

-- 
L. D. James
[EMAIL="ljames@apollo3.com"]ljames@apollo3.com[/EMAIL]
[www.apollo3.com/~ljames]("http://www.apollo3.com/%7Eljames")

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-10-20
Creating new items is a bit of a rough spot of Unity.

If it's just a plain program that you want to add to the Unity Launcher, then run the program, right-click its icon and choose "Keep In Launcher". Or drag it from the Dash to the Launcher.

If it's a brand-new thing that you want to create a launcher for, then you will need to use Alacarte, and then you should find the new launcher inside the Dash. Drag it into the Unity Launcher and you're done. If you want it on the desktop, drag it from the ~/.applications/ folder in your home directory, onto the desktop. You may also need to give it execute permission.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-10-20
launchers (.desktops) made with alacarte can be found in 
~/.local/share/applications
they'll be named alacarte-made.desktop (if more than one a -1, -2 is added

---

### Post by gruadp on 2011-10-20
Like in many other areas ubuntu 11.10 is a mess here.

You can create your launchers manually with any editor. google will show you how.  Here however you can add loads of extra features that are new with unity and seems promising:  quicklists

[http://maketecheasier.com/8-really-useful-ubuntu-unity-quicklists/2011/05/07](http://maketecheasier.com/8-really-useful-ubuntu-unity-quicklists/2011/05/07)


Or you install gnome-backend or something and run  "gnome-desktop-item-edit --create-new ~/Desktop"  (hit ALT-F2 to enter a command)


to me its just unbelievable that ubuntu 11.10 just does not have way to create a launcher in a simple way. I guess its on purpose. In a nice world with cool apps there is no need to create launchers. I cannot do so on my android where I get all shiny apps from shiny market :p 

I really hope that I'm wrong and that this and many many other things will come back soon (like a hirarchic main-menu-button in the launcher. I can create the hierachic menu with alacarte but I cant access it in real life. For all programs that are not in the launcher I need to know the name or search the plain-list provided in the dash)

p

---

### Post by apollothethird on 2011-10-21
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Creating new items is a bit of a rough spot of Unity.

If it's just a plain program that you want to add to the Unity Launcher, then run the program, right-click its icon and choose "Keep In Launcher". Or drag it from the Dash to the Launcher.

If it's a brand-new thing that you want to create a launcher for, then you will need to use Alacarte, and then you should find the new launcher inside the Dash. Drag it into the Unity Launcher and you're done. If you want it on the desktop, drag it from the ~/.applications/ folder in your home directory, onto the desktop. You may also need to give it execute permission.

Thanks, 3rdalbum.  Its a new program.  Actually I'm trying to call the "More Apps" routine.  It's what appears when you click Dash Home -> More Apps.  I find that a very convenient feature.  It takes starting programs to a minimum amount of steps/clicks.  For some reason (which I can't understand for the world of me), the developers removed it from the Launcher, making the users have to perform unnecessary mouse movements (to click the dash) then to click the More Apps button.  I've spent many days trying to remove that extra click.  I want to, not only have the convenience of starting my applications with only two clicks (the minimum that I can imagine with any OS interface) but I would like to share the find with the community when I get it.

I've been trying to get the script, routine, or program that is called to bring up the More Apps search screen.  The closest I can get is SuperKey-A.  I've asked the question in a number of forums.  The only response I get is from askubuntu.com.  Unfortunately they don't appear to understand the real question, and every time I ask a question there, they edit the question to fit the answer they are going to give.

So at this point this batch script works when running from the terminal or clicking on it on the desktop:

```

#!/bin/bash
xdotool keydown super sleep 0.1 key a keyup super 

```Creating a MyMoreApps.desktop file also works when running it by clicking on the desktop icon.  But when you drag the icon to the Launch bar it only works once in about 10 minutes.  The other times it doesn't do anything.

I found that if I place another command above the key stroke command such as “padre”, it'll bring up the first program window, then when exiting that program, the keystroke more apps works from the launcher.

```

#!/bin/bash
padre
xdotool keydown super sleep 0.1 key a keyup super 

```  So presently I'm trying to get it to work from the launcher without having to start another X application ahead of it.  By the way if I start the other X application (in this case padre) with the “&” the more apps screen would fail.

I'm also trying to figure out what is the program that actually starts the More Apps window so that I can call that prgram (or script) directly without having to fake keystrokes.  I have tried many various ways of asking this question in askubuntu.com, but as I said, the moderators will edit the question and answer the question that prefer answering.  It's as if the program is a super secret, so secret that it can't be asked on that form.

Thanks in advance for any comments on this.

-- L. James

-- 
L. D. James
[EMAIL="ljames@apollo3.com"]ljames@apollo3.com[/EMAIL]
[www.apollo3.com/~ljames]("http://www.apollo3.com/%7Eljames")

---

### Post by apollothethird on 2011-10-21
> **mc4man said:**
> launchers (.desktops) made with alacarte can be found in 
~/.local/share/applications
they'll be named alacarte-made.desktop (if more than one a -1, -2 is added

Thanks.  This is great to know.  I wish I had know this before installing a lot of other stuff to make this work:

```

gnome-desktop-item-edit ~/Desktop/ --create-new

```

I was trying to keep my system as clean (to the default and supported configuration) as possible so that I could easier give support to users with questions, and have an understanding of what is trully broken or what becomes messed up by conflicts in a what a user adds.

So far I've only changed over two of my 8 computers.  I'll keep this in mind when I decide to change other some of the others.

-- L. James

-- 
L. D. James
[email]ljames@apollo3.com[/email]
[www.apollo3.com/~ljames](www.apollo3.com/~ljames)

---

### Post by apollothethird on 2011-10-21
> **gruadp said:**
> Like in many other areas ubuntu 11.10 is a mess here.


Yes.  Many things in Ubuntu 11.10 are broken.  The left out the switch user option from the power button.  If you use the suspend option and switch users one of both sessions will stop working.  Maybe that's why the removed the switch user option because they knew having more than one X session would lock up the system.

> 
You can create your launchers manually with any editor. google will show you how.  Here however you can add loads of extra features that are new with unity and seems promising:  quicklists

[http://maketecheasier.com/8-really-useful-ubuntu-unity-quicklists/2011/05/07](http://maketecheasier.com/8-really-useful-ubuntu-unity-quicklists/2011/05/07)
Great list... Thanks for sharing!

-- L. James

-- 
L. D. James
[EMAIL="ljames@apollo3.com"]ljames@apollo3.com[/EMAIL]
[www.apollo3.com/~ljames]("http://www.apollo3.com/%7Eljames")

---

### Post by gruadp on 2011-10-21
Lets keep in mind that this whole discussion is about a feature that until 11.04 was just a right-click on the desktop -> create new launcher

now we have to mess with editors or install extra software like alacarte and perform a lot of steps just to make any program thats not in the dash startable in the unity-launcher.

how can this happen? Probably they dont want us to use programs outside the "ubuntu-software-center" anymore and will soon call it "ubuntu-market" or "u1-market" ;)

stop joking: it is much more difficult to create a system as you like and deal with non-unitiy-program now. Thats not linux-style actually where there is a OS and equally access to all different kind of programs. Many of us use scientific-programs and tools that never will make it to any software-center.

p

---

### Post by FLORIBUNTU on 2011-10-21
Hi, I tottaly agree with Gruadp. using Ubuntu for the past 3 years and plan on using "Linux" always... 

I can get the will to make a simpler interface..
Maybe it is really simplier to code.
Easier to run on all sort of devices... who knows ?
Some could find it very cool, visualy speaking - I almost would, but...

First, I wonder why we are asked to send them surveys of "installed aplications". I've always agreed on this one.
Does someone take them in account..obvioulsy not anymore...

I use at least 10soft which are not part of the Ubuntu approved blahblahblah.
That is because I live in a real world with real necessities that are not the same as my neibourgh&#347; one.
Hmmm..how about you guys ? Do you live in a Military camp ?
Unity does not mean Uniform.
We simply will always create and use launchers because they are the fastest way for US to start that Third party aplications that OPEN SOURCE community (Ubuntu still ?...) allows us to get and use on their plateform !
I want to believe that some "smart O.S. planificator" hasn't realized how important is for us - USER - to keep enjoying that "Freedom" we had..and that seems to shrink with newer versions.

If each version is going to restrict further more the "ways" I/WE LIKE to DO things becoz it looks fancier or it's going to be the next Ubu-market, good for you guys at uniform-landia

further more (could be anothe post) we are stopped from installing Sun-Java like we could do it simply before...
Impact: No more access to soon-to-fail Bank account...
Is that the end of the economic sistem ?

So I ask what's next ? 
...Switch from mouse control to voice control so that we can only use ONE way of controling things ?
Hey that would be fancy too, nop ?
A must for Version 12...
 :lolflag:

---

### Post by sundman on 2011-10-28
Also, to install an icon that is globally available for your newly created application there is an utility for that, too: [FONT="Courier New"]xdg-icon-resource[/FONT]. It's in the package [FONT="Courier New"]xdg-utils[/FONT].

Usage example:
```
sudo xdg-icon-resource install --novendor --context apps --size 48 --mode system  eclipse.png application-x-eclipse
```

Use the name in the last parameter to refer to the icon in the desktop file.

I was pleased to note in the middle of the mess getting used to unity that entries in .local/share/applications are immediatly picked up, with no need to fiddle with updating caches as in earlier versions.

---

