---
title: "Secondary Monitor Problem (help!)"
date: 2008-04-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-07
I have a Toshiba Satellite running Ubuntu 7.10. I also have an Envision external monitor which I am trying to utilize. Unfortunately, rather than spill the desktop onto it as a secondary monitor (as I thought I selected) it now seems to be *permanently* set as my default monitor, and what's worse, _the laptop monitor will no longer display anything_. As of now I am unable to move my laptop anywhere because I can no longer use it without the external monitor (this is, quite obviously, a huge problem). Please help! 

Thanks,
lost09

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-07
Please post /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-08
I'm relatively new to Ubuntu; I have no idea what a "/etc/X11/xorg.conf file" is, much less where to find it.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-08
No problem.  Open a command line terminal:
Top Panel menu > Applications > Accessories > Terminal

In the command prompt, copy and paste the line below:
```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```This will open a text editor with the xorg.conf file; select everything in the file (CTRL+A), copy it; then paste it in a post (enclose the texts with code tag).

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-09
Here's the code:

```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:5:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.284 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1152x864@75" 108.0 1152 1216 1344 1600 864 865 868 900 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@75" 135.0 1280 1296 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@75" 129.86 1280 1368 1504 1728 960 961 964 1002 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@60" 122.61 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@75" 155.85 1400 1496 1648 1896 1050 1051 1054 1096 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@65" 175.5 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1600x1200@60" 162.0 1600 1664 1856 2160 1200 1201 1204 1250 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1792x1344@60" 204.8 1792 1920 2120 2448 1344 1345 1348 1394 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"800x600@72"	"800x600@75"	"800x600@56"	"800x600@60"	"640x480@75"	"832x624@75"	"640x480@72"	"1024x768@75"	"640x480@60"	"1024x768@70"	"1024x768@60"	"1152x864@75"	"1280x1024@75"	"1280x960@60"	"1280x1024@60"	"1280x960@75"	"1400x1050@60"	"1400x1050@75"	"1600x1200@65"	"1600x1200@60"	"1792x1344@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "screen1" 0 0
  screen 1 "Default Screen" leftof "screen1"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:5:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"1280x1024@60"	"1400x1050@60"	"1280x960@60"	"1024x768@43"	"1024x768@60"	"1024x768@70"	"1024x768@75"	"832x624@75"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@85"	"800x600@75"	"800x600@72"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@85"	"640x480@75"	"640x480@72"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Toshiba"
	Modelname	"Toshiba DP566M, Equium 15-inch Monitor"
	Horizsync	30.0-66.0
	Vertrefresh	50.0-100.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@72" 31.5 640 664 704 832 480 489 491 520 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@75" 31.5 640 656 720 840 480 481 484 500 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "640x480@85" 36.0 640 696 752 832 480 481 484 509 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@72" 50.0 800 856 976 1040 600 637 643 666 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@75" 49.5 800 816 896 1056 600 601 604 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@85" 56.3 800 832 896 1048 600 601 604 631 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "832x624@75" 57.284 832 864 928 1152 624 625 628 667 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@75" 78.8 1024 1040 1136 1312 768 769 772 800 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@70" 75.0 1024 1048 1184 1328 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "1024x768@43" 44.9 1024 1032 1208 1264 768 768 776 817 +hsync interlace +vsync
  modeline  "1280x960@60" 102.1 1280 1360 1496 1712 960 961 964 994 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1400x1050@60" 122.61 1400 1488 1640 1880 1050 1051 1054 1087 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
	Option		"Xinerama"	"true"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-09
Move this file to a back-up:
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

Note: if you need to recover back to this file later, do this:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Shutdown the laptop, unplug your monitor from it.  Power-on again.
You should now be able to see the GUI on the laptop display.

Now, you need to generate a new xorg.conf using this command:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Restart X by CTRL+ALT+Backspace.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-09
ACK!

I moved the file to the backup via the line of code you provided. I then restarted, but the monitor didn't really display anything past the BIOS password prompt. Now *neither* monitor is working properly! If I needed your help before, I am desperate now (as I am now, effectively, without a computer of my own). 

*cries*

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-09
Could you boot into ubuntu livecd?  Does the laptop display works for a livecd?

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-10
I can dart back to my room and try that (using a lab computer at the moment). If it happens to display, what should I do? If not?

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-10
You can restore the xorg.conf.backup, as I mentioned in the post #6.  Though I really don't know why removing xorg.conf doesn't work.  Let me give it some thought.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-10
It successfully boots and displays (secondary monitor only) from the liveCD. However, when I attempted to restore the backup file, it gave me something along the lines of "file does not exist / cannot be found". 

I tried generating a new xorg.conf using the command you gave me, but nothing seems to have happened. What do you mean by "Restart X"?

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-10
> **lost09 said:**
> It successfully boots and displays (secondary monitor only) from the liveCD. However, when I attempted to restore the backup file, it gave me something along the lines of "file does not exist / cannot be found". 

The file is located in your local harddisk, under directory /etc/X11.  In livecd, your root directory is not your local harddisk; that's why it says file does not exist.

You will need to find the local harddisk; it should be an icon in the desktop; double-click on that.  The nautilus filemanager will open it.  Navigate to /etc/X11.  Rename xorg.conf.backup to xorg.conf.

> I tried generating a new xorg.conf using the command you gave me, but nothing seems to have happened. What do you mean by "Restart X"?

To simplify, Xorg is the graphical component of ubuntu.  To restart Xorg, you execute ALT+CTRL+Backspace.  The GUI will be restarted.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-10
It will not allow me to rename the file; I tried opening so as to save it under the appropriate name, but apparently that is disallowed as well. *exasperated sigh*

I'm not sure if it's relevant, but xorg.conf.1, xorg.conf.2, xorg.conf.3, and xorg.conf.4 are all present...whatever they are.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-10
> **lost09 said:**
> It will not allow me to rename the file; I tried opening so as to save it under the appropriate name, but apparently that is disallowed as well. *exasperated sigh*

I'm not sure if it's relevant, but xorg.conf.1, xorg.conf.2, xorg.conf.3, and xorg.conf.4 are all present...whatever they are.

Sorry, I forgot, you will need root permission to rename the file.  Open a terminal window, enter:
```
gksudo nautilus
```This should give you the file manager with root privilege.  Navigate to your local harddisk; it should be located under /media/disk (or similar subdir under /media).  Do not confuse the local harddisk directories with the livecd directories.

The other xorg.conf* are back-ups.  If you know which file was the working one, before you messed up the laptop lcd, you can restore that instead.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-11
Proceeding from the assumption that these backups are made periodically and automatically by the computer, I would assume xorg.conf.1 to be chronologically oldest and thus most likely to function properly. Do I risk losing anything by restoring it instead of xorg.conf?

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-12
In case you didn't know already, if you need to shutdown safely (with no display), usually pressing the power button will work.  If not, the last resort is NOT to yank out the power cord or remove the battery.

The last resort is hold down ALT and SysRq (SysRq is usually the Print Screen button on the top right of the keyboard), then press R, E, I, S, U, B; give it a few seconds between each key.
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reisub](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reisub)

It's strange that your laptop refuse to display anything on the onboard LCD.  Once you unplug the external monitor from the VGA port, it should revert back to the internal display.  There is clearly something wrong, either with the hardware, or the video driver.

What graphics chip do you have?  If you are able to boot to Windows and it display to the internal LCD, you can verify it's not a hardware problem.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-12
I have been shutting down via the power button whenever both monitors fail. The Envision (secondary) monitor works, but only when it's hooked up before I turn on the laptop. If it's not hooked up, the laptop screen remains blank; when it IS hooked up however, the laptop screen remains not only blank, but powered off. 

I don't think there's a problem with the graphics card (laptop has a sticker that says "graphics by ATI"), mainly because I am able to view youtube vids and the like. I probably either messed up / misplaced the driver file. Methinks I shall try replacing the xorg.conf file with xorg.conf.1, being as you say it's a backup. 

Oh, and I don't have Windows installed. I'm not dual-booting any other operating system; Ubuntu 7.10 only.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-13
Can I simply rename one of the backup files (xorg.conf.4, for example) to xorg.conf, or do I need to do something fancy in the terminal?

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-13
> **lost09 said:**
> Can I simply rename one of the backup files (xorg.conf.4, for example) to xorg.conf, or do I need to do something fancy in the terminal?

You can simply rename it.

---

### Post by RedPandaFox on 2008-04-13
So your laptop is displaying the bios on boot? Is it responding at all or just remaining blank the whole time?

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-13
> **RedPandaFox said:**
> So your laptop is displaying the bios on boot? Is it responding at all or just remaining blank the whole time?

You posted in the wrong thread?

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-14
Alright, so here's what I did: 

1. Opened terminal, entered "gksudo nautilus"
2. Navigated to etc/X11 and renamed "xorg.conf.1" as "xorg.conf"
3. Restarted computer

The above had no discernible effect. My laptop screen still fails to display anything after the bios password prompt when the external monitor is disconnected, and it still fails to power at all when the external monitor is connected (thankfully, at least the external monitor works...though at a miserably annoying 600x800 pixels). 

Is there anything else I can try, shy of reinstalling Ubuntu?

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-14
So, just to understand the current situation, after all the tinkering.
1. You are now able to boot normally to the ubuntu install in your harddisk?
2. The internal monitor is still not dispalying anything?
3. But the external monitor is back to displaying?

If you answer "yes" to all three questions, then continue reading.


One more thing to try is run the command:
```
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```This command with auto-generate a new xorg.conf file.  Hopefully, with the right set-up, you get back a working xorg.conf.  As in previous case, please back-up the current xorg.conf file.

The difficulty here is this: this command need to be run with the external monitor disconnected.  That way, we hope the internal monitor will be detected and external monitor will not.

So, please do these steps below (I try to give a simplistic explanation what's going on in each step):

1. At your ubuntu GUI (you now have it on your external monitor), press CTRL+ALT+F1.  This will hide the GUI, and you should now see a console (text) login screen.  Login using your username and password.


2. At the console, run this command:
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```You will be prompted for your password.  This command stops the GUI.


3.  Now, type in this command, but DO NOT hit enter to execute it:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```Once you type the command in, disconnect the external monitor.  Once the external monitor is disconnected, press ENTER.  The command will now run.  It takes only a few seconds.  Wait ten seconds, press the power button to reboot.


Hopefully, you get the internal display back.
After this, if it's still not working, I'm ready to give up.  :frown:
.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-14
Tried it... now neither monitor works, regardless of the hookup. *sigh*

I suppose I'll try it from the liveCD (which is what I'm currently booting from), and if that fails, I'll simply have to wipe the hardrive and reinstall Ubuntu (I've got my data backed up on an external drive, so the only things I'll have to hunt down are a few multimedia codecs). 

I do appreciate your assistance. Before I go, how might I learn to use the terminal more fluently,as well as master the inner workings of Ubuntu? The reason I switched to Linux in the first place was to have more control over my computer, but so far it seems I have even less.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-14
> **lost09 said:**
> Tried it... now neither monitor works, regardless of the hookup. *sigh*

Sorry to hear that.  Looks like your hardware simply don't get auto-configured properly.

> Before I go, how might I learn to use the terminal more fluently,as well as master the inner workings of Ubuntu? The reason I switched to Linux in the first place was to have more control over my computer, but so far it seems I have even less.There are many resources / info all over the web.  One advantage of open source is no knowledge is hidden.  It just a matter of finding them, and wade thru the ocean of info.  Which, of course, could be the disadvantage.

It's possible to know all there is to know; but there are too many things, it could take a lot of time to study them.

Personally, my learnings come from keeping active in this forum, and reading (lots of reading) about linux OS; reading from info in the web, and books on linux.

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-15
I have successfully reinstalled Ubuntu, and everything seems to be working. *sigh of relief*

However, this puts me back at square 1. Namely, I am still unable to utilize the second monitor. Unless anyone knows how to make it functional (and after this week's trouble I am **not** trying guesswork), it will be resigned to a lonely existence of dust collecting. :(

Anyway, thanks again, AstalaVista.

---

### Post by chewearn on 2008-04-15
Just curious, what graphics chipset do you have in the laptop?
Since you have it working, can you post the xorg.xonf that you have right now?

---

### Post by lost09 on 2008-04-17
"graphics chipset"? Um... all I know is on a sticker that says "Graphics by ATI" (I don't do any gaming, so I'm not the least bit experienced with graphics and the like; sorry). 

Here's the current xorg.conf:

```
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by techwrekfix on 2008-04-30
I have to say that this is the most helpful forum I've ever seen. I needed a fix for a 2nd monitor issue and found this in under a minute. Thank you very much.

---

