---
title: "12.10 Autologin Problem"
date: 2012-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2012-10-23
Hello everyone,

I recently updated my laptop to Ubuntu 12.10 and now decided to put Autologin on, but i keeps on asking for a login after it suspended.

I went to > System Settings > User Accounts > Automatic Login > On

That was the first thing I tried.

Second was going to the ".conf" file:
> sudo gedit /etc/lightdm/lightdm.conf

And put in this:

> 
autologin-user=username
autologin-user-timeout 0


This was already posted there (because of the first thing I tried, but because that didn't work I retyped it, and saved the file.

It still did/does not work, and am looking for a way to fix this.
Thanks in advance,
Daniel

***SOLVED***

I'm able to change it: 

> System Settings > Screen & Lock > Ask for login after suspend > ON or OFF

---

### Post by neo_1in on 2012-10-23
> **danielbauwens said:**
> I recently updated my laptop to Ubuntu 12.10 and now decided to put Autologin on, but i keeps on asking for a login after it suspended.

Not using unity but i am pretty certain autologin settings don't cover waking up from suspension. They work only for regular start/restart of computer.
Better look at the power settings instead of messing around with lightdm.

---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2012-10-23
I've used Ubuntu since 10.04
And every version I had, I was able to log-on automatically after I suspended.

This may have changed, though I think it is highly unlikely they would change that all of a sudden.

---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2012-10-23
Bump. It would suprise me if no one else had this problem, or for who it is working fine.
Any help is much appreciated.

---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2012-10-24
I was able to fix this.
Thank you to everyone who tried to help.

More information is in my first post.

---

