---
title: "12.10 Netboot - MATE Issue"
date: 2013-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AdamShumpisxXx on 2013-01-28
I installed a Ubuntu 12.10 command line setup through a minimalist netboot "mini.iso". Everything is configured the way I want it but one aspect of MATE is acting very strangely. I'm missing my Shutdown option under System on the top panel! Very rarely it will reappear but 90% of the time it's not there! I've been forced to use "sudo shutdown -P now" or "sudo reboot" in the terminal. Can someone please help me to restore this functionality? I'm running MATE 1.4.2 with MDM (not sure how to check version). If any further information or terminal readouts are needed, please let me know. Thanks!

Screenshot:
[http://i50.tinypic.com/30j5x1z.png]("http://i50.tinypic.com/30j5x1z.png")

---

### Post by AdamShumpisxXx on 2013-01-29
Umm...please?!

EDIT:
OK...here's proof I'm not insane. Check the date and time on both screenshots. Literally, all I've done since the original screenshot is watch YouTube videos, change my wallpaper and install mupen64plus (currently looking for a GUI). Hopefully my question gets's answered at some point. This is REALLY odd!

Screenshot:
[http://i45.tinypic.com/2pt2kip.png]("http://i45.tinypic.com/2pt2kip.png")

EDIT2:
I think I've found something that may aid someone in figuring out a solution to my issue. In the first screenshot you will notice that Ubuntu Software Center is opened. In the second one you will notice it is not. One difference between those two instances is that in the second screenshot I ran a program which required "gksu". Now, up until just 5 minutes ago Ubuntu Software Center would crash whenever I tried to install new software due to a "Software can't be installed or removed because the authentication service is not available." error. So, I tried to solve the issue by adding "gksu" to the beginning of the launcher command for Ubuntu Software Center (it worked by the way). Next thing I know "Shut Down..." is back under System! I'll wait for my 24 hour BUMP courtesy but now I'm REALLY wanting an answer! This is so strange!

---

### Post by AdamShumpisxXx on 2013-01-30
I guess I didn't need the help of Ubuntu Forums after all! I went on the IRC channel #mate on the irc.freenode.org server and got my answer there! The solution was to add:

> exec ck-launch-session mate-session

...to the **[COLOR="Red"]~/.xinitrc[/COLOR]** file (mine didn't even exist). I also unchecked:

> /usr/lib/policykit-1-gnome/polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1

...which was labeled [COLOR="Red"]PolicyKit Authentication Agent[/COLOR] (there was two of them) from my Startup Applications if that makes a difference. Below I have included a message from the user who actually helped me! I hope this information helps!

> <dan408> Just post "dan408 from #mate on Freenode helped me. please check this [[COLOR="Blue"]link[/COLOR]]("http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=276286&page=10") on Fedora forum. He will take it up with MATE upstream."

---

### Post by AdamShumpisxXx on 2013-01-30
I spoke too soon. After a couple of restarts / shut downs the problem is still occurring. Is there nothing that can be done?! I'm getting very frustrated now. I apologize for the BUMP but I didn't want people to think this problem was solved by following the above instructions. I'll wait 48 hours for the next BUMP to "punish" myself.

EDIT:
I've been in contact with the user stefano-k on the same IRC channel as mentioned above. He believes it to be a consolekit issue. He wanted me to try another DM to make sure that wasn't the issue. I completely removed MDM using:

> sudo apt-get --purge remove mdm mint-mdm-themes

I then installed SLiM using:

> sudo apt-get install slim

There was no change. I still have no "Shut Down..." option under System. He wanted to know the read out for:

> ps aux | grep console-kit

...which is:

> adamshumpisxxx@ADAMXXX-LINUX:~$ ps aux | grep console-kit
root      1447  0.0  0.0 4188820 3836 ?        Sl   08:19   0:00 /usr/sbin/console-kit-daemon --no-daemon
1000      2601  0.0  0.0   9392   928 pts/1    S+   09:13   0:00 grep --color=auto console-kit


He asked me for my [COLOR="Red"]/var/log/ConsoleKit/history[/COLOR] log. Here it is:

[[COLOR="Blue"]http://pastebin.com/Dg7pVu82[/COLOR]]("http://pastebin.com/Dg7pVu82")

At this point I have to say I'm about done. I almost don't care if I ever get this fixed. I'm only going to bump this thread one more time in 48 hours and then after that I'm done.

---

