---
title: "twinview - previously maximized windows open to wrong display"
date: 2010-12-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by warensemble on 2010-12-15
Hello, 

I am currently running ubuntu 10.10

I have a panasonic 50" and a samsung 23" both of which are 1080p displays. I have **twinview** setup so that the samsung is my main and the panasonic plasma is my secondary. For some reason every time I open a windows of lets say mozilla and it was maximized prior to closing before, it will "jump" (briefly display on the samsung monitor for a split second and then automatically move to the plasma) from my main display to the secondary panasonic plasma. If mozilla was minimized before closing prior and I reopen it will open to the samsung in the state it was in on the prior close (aka minimized), which is fine. Only when it was maximized prior does it "jump" to my secondary display.

How can I correct this issue? I would like to have programs open (and stay) in the display they were launched in whether it is the plasma or the samsung.



xorg.conf:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@yellow)  Mon Oct  4 15:59:51 UTC 2010

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.06  (buildmeister@builder101)  Mon Sep 13 04:59:45 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7800 GTX"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1920x1080_60 +1920+0, DFP-1: 1920x1080_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection




please let me know if I am missing something. This config file was generated by nvidia-settings.
thanks!

---

### Post by warensemble on 2010-12-15
So I assume there is no solution to this? /bump

---

