---
title: "Compiz+HD 3200+screen problem!!!"
date: 2008-09-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kemkokems on 2008-09-12
Well,I installed ATI driver via NVYNG for my radeon HD 3200 integrated grafics,and I have everithing set and installed to run compiz or desktop effects including xserver-xgl.I have ubuntu 8.04 installed.
I am using compiz-icon to activate compiz but as soon as I turn it on,the bottom and the right part of my screen,about 5-6cm in width becomes un-usable,but effects are active and running.As I turn off effects everithing go back to normal.

This is my xorg.conf:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth              24
                Modes              "1024x768" "800x600" "1280x1024"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        Option          "AIGLX" "on"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection


Any help would be appreciated.
THANX

---

### Post by kemkokems on 2008-09-13
Bump

---

### Post by kemkokems on 2008-09-18
bump

---

### Post by kemkokems on 2008-09-18
Well,problem solved!!It seams that the problem was in ditribution of ubuntu itself.I had installed Ubuntu ultimate 1.8 based on ubuntu 8.04 and I just reinstalled with official ubuntu 8.04.
And the whole problem is gone.
Please lock the thread.

---

