---
title: "Notes on Using KeePass as a Password Manager"
date: 2014-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rewyllys on 2014-05-03
The avalanche of Internet security problems (e.g., Heartbleed, OpenSSL, InternetExplorer) during the last month or so finally shook up even my usually casual attitude toward such matters.  In particular, I started worrying about the fact that for years I have used a relatively small number of different passwords, employing most of them at several different Websites.  I've known this was dangerous, but I was too lazy to be more careful.  

Now, at last, I've become concerned enough to face up to the threat.  My first step was to ask, in [another thread in these Forums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2218566&page=2"), for recommendations for password managers that work in both Linux and Windows.  (I need the latter  functionality because my wife insists on using Windows 7.)  My request for recommendations was kindly answered by Bapoumba, who recommended KeePassX.

That recommendation started me looking online for reviews and/or ratings of password managers.  It quickly became clear that there are many security-conscious users who like KeePass, in versions 1 and 2. Following a couple of days of general searching among password managers, I homed in on KeePass2 as my tentative preferred choice after learning that it is available via the Synaptic Package Manager and Software Center.

My first visit to the [KeePass Website]("https://www.keepassx.org/") was a bit daunting, a reaction that others have reported sharing.  But I soon discovered some more readable sources: most notably, a [KeePass First Steps Tutorial]("http://keepass.info/help/base/firststeps.html").  Also very helpful in giving me a better understanding of KeePass was [Neil J.Rubenking's review]("http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,2817,2408063,00.asp") in *PC Magazine*, dated August 3, 2012.  A list of KeePass's [Awards and Ratings]("http://keepass.info/ratings.html") includes a very impressive set of excellent ratings. And in [still another thread in these Forums]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2210418&highlight=password+manager"), Phedon reports an endorsement by the *Agence nationale de la sécurité des systèmes d’information *of France.

For me, the most helpful of all the sources that I located was a [discussion initiated by J. B.]("http://sourceforge.net/p/keepass/discussion/329220/thread/7c919b4d") on September 13, 2011. Highlights of this discussion included the recommendation that, for opening KeyPass, one should use the **combination of a strong password** (mine exceeds 16 characters) **and a local file****. **The local file can be arbitrary, and I chose an image file.

How am I using KeePass? 
 
I keep my KeePass database under Dropbox, in order to share it among my Linux desktop, my Linux laptop, and my Windows 7 virtual machine (for which I use VirtualBox).  But the local file that I use as part of the KeePass key is NOT kept under Dropbox; I store copies of it in directories **above** Dropbox on my desktop, laptop, and virtual-machine Windows 7.  And, of course, I use a very strong password, generated by KeePass, as my Dropbox password, so that I am not worried about the files that I share, via Dropbox, among my three computer systems.

One of the most convenient features of KeePass2 is this:  Having opened a Website (e.g., that of one's bank), one can enter the username (or account number) and password, and toggle the Login or Submit button, simply by selecting the Website's name in KeePass and then entering Ctrl+V. To do so requires using an add-in, "xdotool", which can be installed via the Synaptic Package Manager or Software Center.

All told, I am delighted to have found KeePass2, and I heartily endorse it as a password manager for Ubuntu and Linux Mint.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-05-03
Eh :)
A local file on any computer I use to open my "main" db located on dropbox and a special less complete db for the phone/tablet work for me. Both dropbox and minikeypass also have passwords set up on the phone/tablet.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2014-05-03
I followed various security threads and I opted to use LastPass firefox addon (cloud based vault) .. in addition to KeePass .. depending on the risk ..

i.e. local KeePass files for banking etc.
LastPass cloud files for less sensitive sites

[http://www.wilderssecurity.com/threads/keepass-or-laspass.326677/](http://www.wilderssecurity.com/threads/keepass-or-laspass.326677/)

LastPass is easier for me to use.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2014-05-03
I recommend keepass too.  I've used it for a few years and it does the job for me. :)

---

### Post by petermartin2 on 2014-12-18
Is there any way to permanently keep the kdb file in keepass? Every time I restart my computer I have to open it again it's arduous.

Is there like a script or something for this?

---

### Post by Penguin360 on 2014-12-18
> **petermartin2 said:**
> Is there any way to permanently keep the kdb file in keepass? Every time I restart my computer I have to open it again it's arduous.

Is there like a script or something for this?

I don't quite understand what you are trying to do. Can you elaborate it?

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-12-19
The db access is closed on closing KeepassX. I even auto-close the db after 60 secs without access. But I keep the last db opened in the KeepassX path, so when I open KeepassX, it asks for the password of the last db I worked with. Depends on the device I use though;

---

