---
title: "10.04 Auto Messenger Sign-In"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SkillenUK on 2010-05-02
I'll just quickly say that I am very impressed overall with 10.04, everyone involved should be very proud of it because they have done a great job. There are a couple of niggles but I'm assuming these are bugs that will be resolved in time.

One of them that I wanted to ask about was when I log in I want my MSN account that I have set up in the messenger system to auto-sign in. I think it should be doing that as it is currently set but I'm assuming that because it takes my wireless a few seconds to establish after I log in it means that my computer has no internet connection at the time that MSN tries to connect.

At the moment I have to click the chat icon in the top right hand corner, select 'Chat Accounts...', click on the MSN account then un-tick enabled and re-tick it again. At that point it connects. I'm posting here because I have been looking for a setting that will make it auto connect but I have not found one. I thought there may be something that will make it connect as soon as a connection is available.

Can anyone offer a solution or can I put this down to a bug and I just need to be patient and wait for a future update that resolves it?

A bug that is worth me mentioning is that sometimes the spell checker gets confused and highlights spaces in sentences suggesting that I should remove them. I'm assuming that this one will already be known about though.

Thanks in advance for any help, regards,

Chris.

---

### Post by SkillenUK on 2010-05-02
Sorry I've just found another post relating to this (I did look before posting but didn't spot it), if you know how to solve this can you post at...

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9217578](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9217578)

Regards,

Chris.

---

