---
title: "9.10 - Top panel keeps moving to the bottom"
date: 2010-03-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Alfred_Jodocus on 2010-03-27
Since about a week I have a problem with Ubuntu 9.10 - the top panel (applications/panels/system/etc.) menu appears at the bottom, not the top, after starting up. 

When I manually edit the panel properties to 'top' instead of 'bottom', the selected value for top is automatically reset to 'bottom' again. *Only* when I manually turn on 'expand menu' can I change the value from 'bottom' to 'top'. I can then turn off 'expand' again and all works fine as it supposed to - the top menu appears at the top.

Till I restart Ubuntu, that is.... then the entire thing repeats again. As if somehow the preferences don't get saved.

I have multiple times tried to change the values with gconf-editor (alt-F2, gconf-editor, apps->panel->toplevels->toppanel) without effect - every time I reboot the top menu appears at the bottom.

Very annoying behaviour.

I have googled for this problem and found threads from 2006 and 2008, which suggest this is a problem with previous versions of Ubuntu too. I haven't found a working solution to this problem.

Another problem (may be related or not) was that locking items to the panel or not never made a difference - they appeared all over the top menu, and occasionally changed position after booting; but I have learned to live with that behaviour)

Any help and suggestions will be greatly appreciated.

Peter.

---

### Post by byStanderone on 2010-03-27
...try killing/re-launching panel, killall gnome-panel
should automatically re-launch by itself but if not,run: gnome-panel

---

### Post by Alfred_Jodocus on 2010-03-27
Opening a terminal and entering the command 'killall gnome-panel' doesn't help; it has the same effect as rebooting: the panel moves from top to bottom again, and I have to repeat the entire procedure (expand -> select top -> disable expand) to get back to the proper situation.

Peter.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-03-27
> **Alfred_Jodocus said:**
> Opening a terminal and entering the command 'killall gnome-panel' doesn't help; it has the same effect as rebooting: the panel moves from top to bottom again, and I have to repeat the entire procedure (expand -> select top -> disable expand) to get back to the proper situation.

Peter.

What I would do is this. I would go for a full reset to gnome defaults. Open home folder, ctrl h to show hidden files.

Delete these folders.
.gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity
Logout then login. You will lose any desktop customisations you've made.

---

### Post by Alfred_Jodocus on 2010-03-27
Completely deleting the gnome desktop seemed a bit drastic to me, so I played around with gconf-editor a bit more.

I'm glad to say the problem is now solved.

Would be nice to be able to say which settings made the difference, but I've changed so many that it's impossible to tell which one. However, previously I only modified values under apps->panels->toplevels; that didn't do the trick.

However, now I tried changing some Y-values and flags in the apps->panel->default_setup -> toplevels -> top_panel 

It seems that modifying the y-values in that menu made the difference.

Thanks for your help, all. Strange though - for about a week I've been trying to solve this problem. A few hours after I post the question, I'm able to solve it myself....

Peter.

---

