---
title: "13.04 on Asus s400ca won't wake after extended suspend"
date: 2013-08-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by casey-hofford on 2013-08-17
I have twice had issues with my laptop, an Asus s400ca running ubuntu 13.04 with kernel 3.11 rc2 not waking after putting it in suspend over night. my var/log/suspend.log is here: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/5996662/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5996662/) any ideas what is wrong or how I can fix it? I know there are other people with this issue but I haven't found any solutions yet. Thanks again!

---

### Post by Toz on 2013-08-17
Hello and welcome to the forums.
> **casey-hofford said:**
> .....not waking after putting it in suspend over night.....
Can you provide more information about what happens here? How do you initiate a resume (lift the lid, press power button)? Do any lights come back on, on the laptop? Are anything blinking? Does the system hang? I'm assuming you have to reboot? 
> .....running ubuntu 13.04 with kernel 3.11 rc2.....
You appear to be running a custom/latest kernel? Does this happen with the kernel that comes with raring? The 3.8 series kernel? May I ask why you are running the 3.11 kernel?
> .....my var/log/suspend.log is here: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/5996662/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/5996662/)....
The only indicator in that log file of a failed suspend is possibly the last one (all the previous attempts appear to be successful and all are in less than a 10 minute time span. Can you confirm that the last attempt was a failed attempt? If so, unfortunately, there really isn't anything in that file that seems wrong. What does the following command return (after a failed suspend attempt)?
```
cat /var/log/syslog | grep PM:
```
Also helpful, might be the contents of /var/log/dmesg?

---

### Post by casey-hofford on 2013-08-18
The "on" LED on my laptop stays on over night and when I try to wake it by raising the lid the harddrive spins but the screen stays blank and pressing the power button doesn't do anything so eventually I just hold it until it shuts down. I'm running 3.11 because it fixes a [glitch with my wireless router]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1160188"). The last couple times I have tried to wake my computer from suspend the screen has come on and the password popup has appeared but my cursor is frozen and no keyboard buttons will make any change on the screen. [dmesg]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/6001163/") & [syslog]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/6001168/"). Thanks for the help, I really appreciate it.

---

### Post by Toz on 2013-08-18
> The last couple times I have tried to wake my computer from suspend the screen has come on and the password popup has appeared but my cursor is frozen and no keyboard buttons will make any change on the screen.
The kernel parameters **atkbd.reset** and **i8042.reset** have been known to fix this issue in previous kernels - not sure about this kernel version.

---

### Post by casey-hofford on 2013-08-18
Ok, sorry to be unknowledgeable, but what exactly does that mean? How would I go about implementing this fix? Thanks again, I really appreciate it.

---

### Post by Toz on 2013-08-19
> **casey-hofford said:**
> Ok, sorry to be unknowledgeable, but what exactly does that mean? How would I go about implementing this fix? Thanks again, I really appreciate it.

See the "Temporarily Add a Kernel Boot Parameter for Testing" section of the "Kernel Boot Parameters" link in my signature for information on how to test the parameters.

---

