---
title: "[SOLVED] keyboard settings"
date: 2008-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bv202 on 2008-09-25
hey

for some reason my keyboard settings are changed
I turned them back on Belgium but that doesnt seem to work

any ideas

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-09-25
Could you post your xorg.conf - run this ina terminal and then paste the output in a new reply - please use # to surround highlighted pasted output.

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Bv202 on 2008-09-25
cant paste them in code tags because of the keyboard settings..



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-09-25
Code tags - lol

anyway I had a similar problem with my kbd reverting to us in xorg - so have you it seems Option "XkbLayout" "us"

This [thread]("http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=902611") talks about setting a kbd to belgium - might be different language setting though, read the thread and you should be ok - if you have any questions ask them here. 

Post #6 sets it to "be" but not sure what language you might need. BEar in mind the thread is actually about getting a french kbd to work though.

Effectively you will need to edit your xorg.conf file to change the kbd setting.

---

### Post by Bv202 on 2008-09-25
Aren't code-tags used here or something? :D

Anyway, thank you VERY much, it seems to work:):)

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-09-25
Yea - code tags you could either use the # in new reply or do as I do and type them 

[noparse]```
 at beginning and 
``` at the end[/noparse]

If that has done it can you mark thread solved please - thread tools.

Edit - bbcode page is here - [http://ubuntuforums.org/misc.php?do=bbcode](http://ubuntuforums.org/misc.php?do=bbcode)

---

### Post by Bv202 on 2008-09-25
Okay, thanks:)

---

