---
title: ".ISO mounting issues..."
date: 2009-03-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jfphonics on 2009-03-09
I should mention I just moved to Linux so I am quite new (and I'm a windows admin, too...so that should tell you how much i hate the empire :) ) so my problem might seem stupid.

I mounted an .ISO earlier using a command i found on a ubuntu help website, and now I cannot access it or get rid of. I was originally getting an error saying I did not have the necessary permissions to access the resource, which is when i found some posts on this forum about using chown, but that didn't work. I basically decided to get rid of it but now when i try to unmount i can't do it. there is nothing in /etc/fstab about it either so i'm not sure if that has anything to do with it or not.

i really would like to get the thing working but if i can't, unmounting it would be just as fine. help?

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-03-09
have you tried unmount or rebooting?

---

### Post by NoReflex on 2009-03-09
The permission error message probably suggests that you should use sudo when running mount / umount commands.

NoReflex

---

### Post by jfphonics on 2009-03-09
About a second after i posted this i realized i should reboot, and did, and that unmounted the volume. I did use sudo but i still didn't have permissions to access the iso. Is there any standard way to mount an .iso?

---

### Post by NoReflex on 2009-03-09
I think not...
Whenever I must mount an iso image I do this : 
```
sudo mount /path/to/iso/image.iso /media/iso -o loop
```
I have the iso folder within /media already created the first time I had to mount an .iso image(**sudo mkdir /media/iso**).

If check your permissions where you're mounting - with **ls -l**.

Best wishes,
NoReflex

---

### Post by jfphonics on 2009-03-09
I'm still not able to mount. Whenever I try that command I just get the explanation for what mount can do...not sure what I'm doing wrong here.

---

### Post by srt4play on 2009-03-09
There is a graphical program specifically for doing this.  gmountiso - install it from synaptic.

---

### Post by jfphonics on 2009-03-09
Ill try that, thanks :)

---

