---
title: "Escaping spaces in directory when running find from a bash script"
date: 2007-01-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by raf82 on 2007-01-13
Hello everyone,
Here's the output I want to get :
```

raf82@raf82:Albums$ find Artiste\ -\ Album/ -type f -iname \*.ext
Artiste - Album/titre2.ext
Artiste - Album/titre3.ext
Artiste - Album/titre1.ext

```
Here's my script :
```

#!/bin/bash

echo \"$1\"

stringdir=${1//' '/'\ '}
echo \"$stringdir\"

find $stringdir -type f -iname  \\*.mp3 -or -iname \\*.ogg -or -iname \\*.mpc

```
(I use bash rather than sh because the latter throws an error on text substitution command.)
Here's the output I get :
```

raf82@raf82:Albums$ bash CreerListeDeLecture.sh Artiste\ -\ Album/
"Artiste - Album/"
"Artiste\ -\ Album/"
find: prédicat « -\ » invalide

```
Yeah I know, text's in french. I'm translating for you if needed : find treats the dash from the directory name as "a test, action or option". Quote from the info documentation.
The same doc advise to "consider using `./*' or just `.' instead".
First, adding, './' to the directory name give the same error.
Second, i'd like my output clean of any './'.

Two questions :
 - What am I doing wrong ?
 - How come that when I chmod my script file, permissions are left unchanged ?
Example :
```

raf82@raf82:Albums$ chmod 770 CreerListeDeLecture.sh 
raf82@raf82:Albums$ ls -lh CreerListeDeLecture.sh 
-rw-rw---- 1 raf82 users 1010 2007-01-13 15:34 CreerListeDeLecture.sh

```
Thank you in advance for any help...

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-01-13
What chmod command did you use?

chmod a+x ....
chomd u+x ....

Try this in your script:

And I think you may need to add  " " to you script, but not sure where ?

What are you trying to do ?

---

### Post by raf82 on 2007-01-13
The chmod command used is in the first message. It is :
```

chmod 770 CreerListeDeLecture.sh

```
Doesn't something miss after "Try this in your script:" ?
I tried quoting my variables like everywhere. Going crazy, I thought someone with some distance would figures this out for me easy...
Oh, and I'm trying to make a playlist. These generated by my media player don't satisfy me (EXTINF crap, absolute path).
Thanks for helping !

---

### Post by raf82 on 2007-01-13
I found out my mistakes. Posting here to help other newbies...
The valid code is :
```

#!/bin/sh

echo find "$1 -type f \\( -iname \\*.mp3 -or -iname \\*.ogg -or -iname \\*.mpc \\)"
find "$1" -type f \( -iname \*.mp3 -or -iname \*.ogg -or -iname \*.mpc \)

```
Some explanations :
 - no more "manual" text substitution so reverting to /bin/sh
 - no more "manual" text substitution because the shell obviously know how to do that. Just have to found the right syntax, here being <double quote>$<variable><double quote>.
 - some more difficulties escaping backslash in a string versus in a command (or echo versus find)
 - the wildcard (*) and parenthesis need to be escaped because there are to be processed by the find command directly, not the shell.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-01-13
8)

Sorry I could not help more....

---

