---
title: "9.10 Karmic freeze @ login after updates but live 9.10 cd ok"
date: 2010-01-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joeuser2000 on 2010-01-29
Nubby.

Been using for a few years (7.10 cherry) and previously I just upgraded to next release to fix issues, except I can't do that now.

System has been fine. Nvidia video card. Rest of the device on mainboard. No issues since upgrade to 9.10 few months back.

Update manager informed me I had updates so I did them and did not ask to reboot. I then forced a check (which I do once or twice a week) and then did that update. The update froze halfway through and I do not recall what it was on. It was stuck there for an hour and no HDD activity, no mouse, etc. Tap power button to shut down and no go. Held button down and rebooted system.

Now it gets to login screen and simply freezes at username window. I tried older kernels off grub - no go - same thing. I tried recovery mode and I login and then startx and everything comes up like it's going to work but it freeze at a window where it says that unbuntu one wants to access the keyring but it's frozen and I can't move mouse, type, or anything else. Yet, tapping power button causes it to shutdown like normal (I guess). I can boot into live 9.10 cd ok.

I am guessing when the update crashed and borked my install - am I reinstalling?

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2010-01-29
hi
have you already tried:  dpkg --configure -a --peding  and --> apt-get -f  (to fix broken packets) in recovery mode ?
may this will help you.
ciao

---

### Post by joeuser2000 on 2010-01-29
> **rnerwein said:**
> hi
have you already tried:  dpkg --configure -a --peding  and --> apt-get -f  (to fix broken packets) in recovery mode ?
may this will help you.
ciao

Thanks for your reply and attempt to help these commands above did not solve this issue (I think you typo'd peding? but pending seemed to work) the apt command didn't do anything but I put a check in apt-get check -f but still didn't work.

I also tried the dpkg options from the recovery mode and that has not fixed this issue either.

---

### Post by joeuser2000 on 2010-01-29
ok, let me ask this: Is there another repair option that I am not seeing? I would rather not reinstall the OS.

---

### Post by joeuser2000 on 2010-01-30
ok I have a side by side install working now and I can access the original install - is there something I can clear out, delete or otherwise do to get my original install going again?

Basically it's the latest stuff and it freezes at the login window where my username should be clicked on and then the password entered. There are no choices for gnome failsafe or anything like that at the bottom. The problem began when I was doing updates and the updates froze for an hour, nothing responded and all I could do was hard power down on the system by holding power button down for 4 secs. Since then I cannot get past login. 

I tried suggestions above to no avail, I would like to get back into my original install.

---

