---
title: "10.04 LTS Compatable Scanner Needed"
date: 2011-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ibod on 2011-05-07
Hi all,

Can anyone tell me what scanner to buy to work out of the box with Ubuntu 10.04 LTS


Thanks Danny

---

### Post by edm1 on 2011-05-07
Ubuntu uses SANE to interface with scanners. [Here is a compatibility list]("http://www.sane-project.org/sane-supported-devices.html").

---

### Post by ottosykora on 2011-05-07
> **ibod said:**
> Hi all,

Can anyone tell me what scanner to buy to work out of the box with Ubuntu 10.04 LTS


Thanks Danny

the canon P150 works, they have linux drivers for it at the website

---

### Post by jmore9 on 2011-05-07
I use a cannon N650U usb scanner and it works very well.  The documents are very crisp and readable, same for the photos.

I did not have to install anything it worked with the one that is automaticly installed.

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2011-05-07
My HP J4580 worked out of the box. I just plugged it in.

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2011-05-07
Canon CanoScan LiDE 20 usb powered scanner. 

Works well both on xsane on 10.04 and using SimpleScan. 

Cheers

---

### Post by ibod on 2011-05-08
Thanks for the suggestions so far, I am looking for specific models that work as all but the first post.  

I started this search in the SANE list and picked up an HP 3670 scanner, that is listed as Complete (fully working) is a SANE backend. Then after many weeks of trying I could not install the SANE backend, I don't have enough technical knowledge of Ubuntu 10.04 to do it.  

So I have returned to trying to source a scanner based on one that you guys have working on 10.04.

Thanks

PS I have searched Google and these forums and tried all the examples I can find to get the HP 3670 to work with no luck. It works fine in windows.

---

### Post by ibod on 2011-06-10
Hi 

I found a Canon LIDE 20 on Ebay for £10 and as above it was just plug it in and go 

Thanks to all

---

