---
title: "9.04 - Tracker no longer in deskbar-applet"
date: 2009-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by macey on 2009-05-19
Hello forum.
After a clean install of 9.04. deskbar-applet was missing.
I did an install (via the package manager). 
the applet runs ok but Tracker is missing from the application list (preferences).
I have tried the drag & drop procedure (source from here [http://projects.gnome.org/tracker/download.html](http://projects.gnome.org/tracker/download.html)).
The applet says it has installed the new plugin ok but Tracker is still not in the list.

Help much appreciated.

---

### Post by LoloftheRings on 2009-05-19
Not sure if it's gonna work, but you could try this:
```
sudo apt-get install deskbar-applet
```
Reboot and see if you can add it.

Good luck

---

### Post by macey on 2009-05-19
> **LoloftheRings said:**
> Not sure if it's gonna work, but you could try this:
```
sudo apt-get install deskbar-applet
```
Reboot and see if you can add it.

Good luck

Still the same.

---

### Post by luisasolarf on 2009-05-25
it seem neither tracker nor deskbar is installed by default in ubuntu jaunty 9.04. So you should install both tracker and deskbar from scratch to get they both work.

The order doesnt matter. Install deskbar the way it is up on the page. After install tracker. I dont remember the exact name of the package but you can go system, administration, synaptic manager and search for "tracker",and a list of packages will appear, choose the one that says it is tracker indexing tool -again i dont remember the exact package name. 


after that you should enable indexing on system preferences, search and indexing. And you should enable the tracker plugin of deskbar too. 

thats all. i hope it helps.

---

### Post by luisasolarf on 2009-05-25
another option: use gnome-do instead deskbar applet... it is pretty good and you can easily enable a plugin to work with tracker seamlessly.

---

### Post by macey on 2009-05-30
> **luisasolarf said:**
>  

thats all. i hope it helps.


'fraid not, still the same, thanks anyway:(:(

---

