---
title: "9.04 to 9.10 Where did all my files go?!  Please help!"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tiger04 on 2009-10-29
I just upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and my files are gone.  All of the document folders are empty.  Does the upgrade wipe the system clean or move files somewhere else? Can someone please help me recover or revert back?

---

### Post by terry_gardener on 2009-10-29
did you use the livecd clean install or upgrade from the update manager.

---

### Post by JeSTeR7 on 2009-10-29
How did you do this upgrade?

---

### Post by tiger04 on 2009-10-29
I used a live CD.

---

### Post by terry_gardener on 2009-10-29
a livecd clean install complete wipes the drive and then puts ubuntu on it.
to upgrade and keep all files and settings use the upgrade function in update manager.
i also recommend to people to backup there home directory before upgrading just incase

---

### Post by tiger04 on 2009-10-29
F

---

### Post by Merk42 on 2009-10-29
You MAY have lucked out, but doubtful
Go to the command prompt and type
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

### Post by WorLord on 2009-10-29
One CAN do a Live-CD install that does *not* wipe out all files, but you have to specifically instruct the installer to do this.  

You click the install icon, select the manual partitioning option, set up your drives/mount points the way they were before, and opt NOT to format / or /home (or whatever partitions you don't want to lose files from).  

You WILL lose all files in some directories - /etc, /bin, /usr, /var, etc. etc., but /home and /opt get left alone for sure (I've done this for the past two Ubuntu releases).  

If you don't specifically do these things, then the partitions will get formatted and more or less start from scratch, unfortunately.

---

