---
title: "vmware view client error"
date: 2012-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linuxformat on 2012-05-01
[U]Hi 

I installed vmware view client and now when [/U]I try to log in to our server i find this error


Failed to connect to the View Connection Server. The server provided an invalid certificate:

The certificate authority is invalid or incorrect.how can configure the certificate for it .

From windows connected automatically without any problem .


Please help

 Greetings

---

### Post by metallica1973 on 2012-09-13
Same issue. I have access to my esxi 5 server and am able to pull the rui.crt and the rui.key like what was suggested in the documentation:

[php]
Certificate Checking Modes for View Client
Administrators and sometimes end users can configure whether client connections are rejected if any or some
server certificate checks fail.
Certificate checking occurs for SSL connections between View Connection Server and View Client. Certificate
verification includes the following checks:
n n Has the certificate expired, or is it valid only in the future? That is, is the certificate valid according to the
   computer clock?
n 
12
Is the certificate intended for a purpose other than verifying the identity of the sender and encrypting
server communications? That is, is it the correct type of certificate?
Does the common name on the certificate match the host name of the server that sends it? A mismatch
can occur if a load balancer redirects View Client to a server with a certificate that does not match the host
name entered in View Client. Another reason a mismatch can occur is if you enter an IP address rather
than a host name in the client.

n
Is the certificate signed by an unknown or untrusted certificate authority (CA)? Self-signed certificates are
one type of untrusted CA.
To pass this check, the certificate's chain of trust must be rooted in the device's local certificate store.
NOTE For instructions on distributing a self-signed root certificate that users can install on their Linux client
systems, see the Ubuntu documentation.
View Client uses the PEM-formatted certificates stored in the /etc/ssl/certs directory on the client system.
For instructions on importing a root certificate stored in this location, see the procedure called "Importing a
Certificate into the System-Wide Certificate Authority Database" in the document at
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenSSL.
In addition to presenting a server certificate, View Connection Server 4.6.1, 5.0.1 and later versions also send
a certificate thumbprint to View Client. The thumbprint is a hash of the certificate public key and is used as
an abbreviation of the public key. If the View server does not send a thumbprint, you see a warning that the
connection is untrusted.
If your administrator has allowed it, you can set the certificate checking mode. Select File > Preferences from
the VMware View Client menu bar or the View desktop menu bar. You have three choices:
n Never connect to untrusted servers. If any of the certificate checks fails, the client cannot connect to the
 server. An error message lists the checks that failed.
n Warn before connecting to untrusted servers. If a certificate check fails because the server uses a self-
 signed certificate, you can click Continue to ignore the warning. For self-signed certificates, the certificate
name is not required to match the View Connection Server name you entered in View Client.
n Do not verify server identity certificates. This setting means that View does not perform any certificate
checking.
[/php]

tried

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenSSL ](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenSSL )

[php]

Importing a Certificate into the System-Wide Certificate Authority Database

You can import a CA Certificate into the system-wide database of trusted certificate authorities. Applications that use this database will automatically trust any certificates stored here.

1. Copy your certificate to the system certificate directory. At a terminal prompt, type:

$ sudo cp mycert.pem /usr/share/ca-certificates/mycert.crt

2. Edit the ca-certificates configuration file /etc/ca-certificates.conf. Add the name of the file you copied to /usr/share/ca-certificates to the top of the list just after the final "#". For example:

# This file lists certificates that you wish to use or to ignore to be
# installed in /etc/ssl/certs.
# update-ca-certificates(8) will update /etc/ssl/certs by reading this file.
#
# This is autogenerated by dpkg-reconfigure ca-certificates.
# certificates shoule be installed under /usr/share/ca-certificates
# and files with extension '.crt' is recognized as available certs.
#
# line begins with # is comment.
# line begins with ! is certificate filename to be deselected.
#
mycert.crt
brasil.gov.br/brasil.gov.br.crt
cacert.org/cacert.org.crt
mozilla/ABAecom_=sub.__Am._Bankers_Assn.=_Root_CA.crt
[... many additional certificates omitted ...]

Instead of manually editing this file, you can run

sudo dpkg-reconfigure ca-certificates

3. Update the CA certificates database by typing:

$ sudo update-ca-certificates

4. You have successfully imported your certificate into the system CA certificates database. 
[/php]

it did not work. So I remain stumped.

---

