---
title: ".rar File support for Linux?"
date: 2010-02-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CharlesJWelsh on 2010-02-16
Anyone have any ideas? Today is my first day on Ubuntu and so far I have had NOTHING but problems... *lol* Hopefully my experience is on a much better path. Any help would be greatly appreciated. 
Thank you,
CJ

---

### Post by jocko on 2010-02-16
To be able to extract rar files, you need to install the package "unrar".
Either search for it in synaptic (System-->Administration-->Synaptic package manager), or run this command in a terminal:```
sudo apt-get install unrar
```

The package "ubuntu-restricted-extras" will install unrar plus a few other packages that you may need (some audio and video codecs, microsoft fonts, adobe flash plugin for firefox, and unrar).

---

### Post by Satoru-san on 2010-02-16
yes, and to run it do this

```
cd /path/to/file.rar
unrar e file.rar
```

unrar is nice, it may be terminal driven but it can assemble split archives. :)

---

### Post by CharlesJWelsh on 2010-02-16
so i have to use the terminal everytime i wanna use it? I cannot just right click the .rar file and hit "open with"?

I copy and pasted that and it did not work... I am certainly no master with the Terminal... I barely know how to use the thing. Is there an easier way?

---

### Post by qwerty2009 on 2010-02-16
you should always install ubuntu-restricted-extras (this installs codecs and plugins)

download and install ubuntu tweak - web: [http://ubuntu-tweak.com/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/)

in the application centre in ubuntu-tweak install p7zip-full and that will let you right click and extract :P

---

### Post by Chronon on 2010-02-16
I am under the impression that if unrar is installed, then File Roller will be able to use it to extract RAR archives.  I can't check this since I never use RAR.  Try right clicking your archive and opening with File Roller.

---

### Post by CharlesJWelsh on 2010-02-16
nothin... and i installed "ubuntu tweak" and i dunno what to do next...

---

### Post by qwerty2009 on 2010-02-16
start it from your main menu its in system tools>ubuntu tweak

---

### Post by CharlesJWelsh on 2010-02-16
okay... i see no ubuntu tweaks under system tools.

---

### Post by qwerty2009 on 2010-02-16
if installed correctly the ubuntu tweak shortcut should be in your main menu under the system tools directory.

you could type ubuntu-tweak in the run box instead 

to get the run box up press alt+f2

---

### Post by mutex023 on 2010-02-16
If you have installed the unrar package, then all you have to do is right click the .rar file and select 'extract here'. No terminal crap required !  To install unrar package, go to System > Administration > Synaptic Package manager and search for unrar.

---

### Post by rob1408 on 2010-02-16
1. Open Up A terminal and type the following command:

sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras

This will install all manner of codecs along with unrar.  You'll need all this if you want to play videos, music or flash anyway.

2. Right click on the archive and select extract.

That's it, you only have to do step one the one time.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-02-16
Once you've installed the "unrar" package from Synaptic, you can double-click on a RAR archive and it will open in Archive Manager (File Roller).

There are two versions of the RAR archiving format - an open-source one, and a proprietary one. Ubuntu ships with only open-source software, so if you've got one of the proprietary RAR archives you need to install that 'unrar' package in order to extract it.

---

### Post by m4tic on 2010-02-16
GO to Applications-> Software center and search for rar

---

### Post by ken0069 on 2010-02-21
> **Satoru-san said:**
> yes, and to run it do this

```
cd /path/to/file.rar
unrar e file.rar
```unrar is nice, it may be terminal driven but it can assemble split archives. :)


I have a problem with assembling RAR files that are extracted.  I installed RAR from the Software Center and when I extracted a 4 part archive it just extracted the 4 files and did not assemble them?  So is there another RAR program that will do this and do they only work from terminal?

---

