---
title: "10.10 Netbook Live CD Goes to Black Screen on Boot"
date: 2010-10-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jbaranski on 2010-10-12
I've booted this and the beta of it, however they both load the initial purple screen then go to a black screen.  Now, it does seem to still be loading, as I can hear the disk being read.

This is the first time I've encountered this, so I dunno what the problem is.  All I know is that it's always worked in the past

This is on my Asus F3KA-X4 with an AMD processor and a Radeon 2600 Mobility or whatever the name is exactly.

---

### Post by jbaranski on 2010-10-13
Perhaps I can work around it by installing 10.04 and upgrading?  Or maybe by doing it via USB.  I'll try that.  Some input would be appreciated.

---

### Post by jbaranski on 2010-10-13
Nope, I tried USB and no dice.  So I put it in my desktop, and it booted fine.  Then I go and install 10.04 via usb.  It boots and installs just fine.  So then I upgrade to 10.10 via Ubuntu's own updating software.  Everything installs fine, then when I reboot, I get the black screen.  There is no boot sound (i have it set to login automatically) so it's not reaching that point.  What's wrong?  Am I doomed to 10.04?

I'm going to try 10.10 desktop edition and see if that works.  I'll report back with my results...as if anyone is listening!  haha

---

### Post by jbaranski on 2010-10-13
well, no dice.  I'm looking at the desktop version of 10.10 on my laptop give me that same black screen.  I was REALLY looking foreward to this release too!  What the heck?!

---

### Post by Irtsi on 2010-10-16
I have the same problem on my Lenovo IdeaPad S10-3.

Trying to install the Netbook Remix 10.10 and it just gives me a black screen when booted from a USB stick. No problems with 10.04 desktop version.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2010-10-16
Just an idea: probably it is looking for a file that it can't find. This might be the graphics driver, that was installed in a previous version of Ubuntu, but is not present in the new one, though the configuration says that it should be there.

The only thing that I can think of is to boot the computer in recovery mode and try the options you get there, such as something like fixing xsession errors or so.

Try starting in the failsafe mode (if that is so called) and see what happens. See what is in the dmesg file, if the computer boots fine in failsafe mode, or when you get to the root prompt.

Good luck

---

### Post by jbaranski on 2010-10-17
> **Topsiho said:**
> Just an idea: probably it is looking for a file that it can't find. This might be the graphics driver, that was installed in a previous version of Ubuntu, but is not present in the new one, though the configuration says that it should be there.

The only thing that I can think of is to boot the computer in recovery mode and try the options you get there, such as something like fixing xsession errors or so.

Try starting in the failsafe mode (if that is so called) and see what happens. See what is in the dmesg file, if the computer boots fine in failsafe mode, or when you get to the root prompt.

Good luck

I've only ever been able to get anywhere with 10.10 (from cd/usb) by checking off "nomodeset" and booting it.  It gives me a command line, but I don't know much about that, so I can't do anything.  Is there some way to install a driver or at least check for the problem from there?  I have 10.10 installed, but it goes straight to black screen in normal, and recovery mode.

---

