---
title: "Matlab R2007a crashes"
date: 2007-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lbig on 2007-04-21
I have this weird bug in the last matlab release, I made a clean install of R2007a in my Ubuntu 6.10 edgy , everything seems to be working fine, but  then when I press the "Show Plots Tools and Dock Figure" button in the plot window Matlab (and everything else) closes and sends me back to the Ubuntu login screen.

I tried reinstalling, but nothing changed.

this screenshot might help you understand what button I'm talking about.

[[IMG]http://img101.imageshack.us/img101/7195/pantallazobp5.th.png[/IMG]](http://img101.imageshack.us/my.php?image=pantallazobp5.png)

One more thing, during install Matlab never asked me to specify  the location of symbolic links, so now I have to use the full path, does anyone know how to walk around this?

---

### Post by lbig on 2007-04-26
I found this error message:

> Warning: Missing charsets in String to FontSet conversion
Warning: Unable to load any usable fontset

please, someone help.

---

### Post by slumcat05 on 2007-05-01
Not sure about your error, but the symbolic links can be automatically generated by a script included in your matlab install directory. Just cd over to you matlab install directory, i.e. /opt/matlab or /home/john/matlab or whatever, and run:

```
sudo ./install_matlab
```

Follow the prompts and it should take care of it all for you.

---

### Post by slumcat05 on 2007-05-01
Actually, now that I think about it, I may have an answer (though probably not) to your error. I use R14, and I remember having a font issue that was solved by installing libxft1 from synaptic. I'm pretty sure it's in the universe repository, but it may be somewhere else, just search for. Again, this was R14, so no promises, but it shouldn't hurt to try.

---

### Post by J77 on 2007-09-12
.

---

### Post by J77 on 2007-09-12
.

---

