---
title: ".sh help"
date: 2010-02-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CatchItBaby on 2010-02-28
I created a little bash script for renaming files from a folder

Every time i hv to put that bash script file (rename.sh) in folder 

Is there any ways i will call (rename.sh) from terminal without moving rename.sh into any folder ?

Edit : Ok Thanks :)

One More Question : Whenever i run any .sh file automatically one .sh~ file created it is my programing mistake or is it exists ?

---

### Post by moe46 on 2010-02-28
If you place the script in 
/usr/local/bin
and run  sudo chmod +x script_name.sh
on it then you can run the code from any folder like its a regular program
just type script_name.sh
I normally remove the .sh part
so I can just type script_name



Good Luck

---

### Post by howlingmadhowie on 2010-02-28
the important thing is that the script is in your $PATH. this is a list of the directories your shell searches for executables. you can find its value by entering:
```

echo $PATH

```
One thing some people do is create a 'bin' directory in their home directory:
```

mkdir ${HOME}/bin

```
and then adding this directory to their $PATH by editing the file ${HOME}/.profile or ${HOME}/.bashrc and adding the following line at the end:
```

PATH=${HOME}/bin:$PATH

```

Then you can put executable scripts into ${HOME}/bin

You will need to log out and in again for this to work, or you can read up about the 'source' command.

---

### Post by konqueror7 on 2010-02-28
why not add it to your nautilus scripts if you use gnome? in ~/.gnome2/nautilus-scripts

---

### Post by moe46 on 2010-02-28
Sweet, I didn't know that you could also do it that way!
Is $PATH done a a per user basis? (I assume it is)




Note to the original poster, If it needs to be usable by many users then you will either have to put it in a location that is native to everyone default path settings or you will have to add it to each persons path. Unless path is global not per user (I think)

---

### Post by amrypma on 2010-02-28
the .bash or .profile script in your home directory is entirely yours :-)

---

### Post by CatchItBaby on 2010-02-28
Ok Thanks :)

One More Question : Whenever i run any .sh file automatically one .sh~ file created it is my programing mistake or is it exists ?

---

### Post by amrypma on 2010-03-01
which text editor do you use to write the script. I think the <something>~ files are used as a backup/recovery file in case something nasty happens happens while editing. (say killing the editor process)

Have a look at it.
```
cat <something>~
```

if it's identical or nearly so you can safely delete it.

---

