---
title: "10.04 Nvidia binaries"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nbtrap on 2010-04-29
In Ubuntu 10.04, will I be able to install the latest Nvidia drivers via the binaries from the Nvidia website without a hassle? Or, will the Nouveau driver be a pain in the ***, forcing me to install from the repos?

---

### Post by nbtrap on 2010-04-29
Bump.

---

### Post by ToxicBurn on 2010-04-29
I think it may be to soon to tell maybe in a few days we can get an answer once some people try it.

---

### Post by dayalsoap on 2010-04-29
I don't see the NVidia drivers listed by default?  In the previous versions for me, it found the correct driver and let me install it (through the Hardware Drivers window).

It doesn't seem to do it this time, now I have to figure out exactly which one to install.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-04-29
The Release Notes for Lucid still say, "No".

> Ubuntu 10.04 LTS includes  improved integration for nVidia binary driver packages.  Unfortunately,  this comes at the expense of compatibility with the installer provided  upstream on the nVidia website.  Users who wish to use the nVidia binary  video drivers with 10.04 LTS should install them using the Ubuntu  packages, as made available under System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers.  [http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/releasenotes/1004)

Tim

---

### Post by Mike_IronFist on 2010-04-29
> **nbtrap said:**
> In Ubuntu 10.04, will I be able to install the latest Nvidia drivers via the binaries from the Nvidia website without a hassle? Or, will the Nouveau driver be a pain in the ***, forcing me to install from the repos?

No, you can't install the NVIDIA driver direct from the website easily, but I think 10.04 will push out an update to the NVIDIA driver each time a new driver is released by NVIDIA. In Hardware Drivers, the driver listed for my card is "NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver [version current]".

---

### Post by Cardale on 2010-04-30
Don't worry this is my main concern as well.

I had no problem installing the drivers.  This is one of the reason I stick with Ubuntu.  They have a great little notification informing you they maintain Nvidia drivers and you can optionally install them.

I think OpenSUSE is another one that also operates this way.  It is really nice not having to hunt for drivers and everything works pretty darn good.

---

