---
title: "10.04 network manager not visible in panel"
date: 2010-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2010-12-16
**Bit of history:**
New to 10.04, not to Ubuntu. Fresh install of 10.04, recommended proprietary nVidia driver installed because text rendering in Firefox is terribly with the 'standard' non-proprietary driver.

Also new to Vodafone / Huawei modems. My previous experience with a Vodafone modem (type unknown) was with 9.04 when I helped my daughter-in-law fixing her Windows computer. It worked out of the box from the live CD and she is now a happy Ubuntu user :)

Optimistically, I recently bought a Vodafone K3765 modem as backup for my standard internet connection. I eventually got that to work after installing the USB mode switcher. :) So no *it works out-of-the-box* experience here :(

**Problem:**
The network manager (I assume that is what it is called; little antenna with signal strength indicator) is not visible in the panel (right top). It is there but it's only one pixel or so wide (at occasion a one pixel wide vertical line occurs at the position where it is supposed to be). So when I want to connect I have to click a number of times in the panel till I hit it and the menu shows. Once it is visible, it will stay visible till the user logs off.

**Question(s):**
Anybody the same experience?
Anybody the solution?

Thanks in advance

WimS

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-01-04
Kick ;)

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2011-08-10
Replaced video card because old one is broken; needed propietary drivers for it because recommended ones don't work.

Issue still there. Any idea?

---

