---
title: "12.04 Extremely Slow"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ndstate on 2012-04-28
Hello all,

I just moved from 11.10 to 12.04 via a fresh install and this version is terribly slow to boot... it took over 5 mins.

Orginally the system would not boot with out nomodeset in the bootline, with it is takes a long time to boot.  I tried switching to fglrx, but both of them fail to install.

I have a Radeon HD 3500 graphics card, and I am sure this is part of the problem.

What information can I provide so I can get some help getting this fixed?

Thanks!
Brian

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-04-28
You may want to add information about, CPU, make of computer, and memory . I installed beta 2 a few weeks ago and wanted to see how a clean installation of the final release worked . I just finished an hour ago and all went well. I have to ask if you ran a checksum on the installation disk after making it?

---

### Post by ndstate on 2012-04-28
Hello,

Thank you for the response.

It is a [Toshiba A305-S6843]("http://reviews.cnet.com/laptops/toshiba-satellite-a305-s6843/1707-3121_7-33030321.html")
Intel Core 2 Duo T8100 / 2.1 GHz
4 GB Ram
ATI Mobility Radeon HD 3470 - 256.0 MB - graphics card.

I did not run a checksum on the disk.  I will do that now.

Thanks for any continued help!

---

### Post by theller on 2012-04-28
I loaded 12.04 and I also notice a lag in the video. I have an AMD 6 core / Asus M5A88 MoBo w/ ATI radeon 4250 graphics. The desktop effects are slow, Clemintine visualizer will freeze but movies play great. Sounds like a similar problem. Any ideas?

---

### Post by ndstate on 2012-04-28
I ran a md5 via the directions at [http://bit.ly/Ki2W4L](http://bit.ly/Ki2W4L) and it was fine.  I dont have the ISO to compare to the md5 hashes Ubuntu lists on their wiki... any other good way to compare the hashes?

theller: Do you have slow boot problems? Are you using fglrx or what driver?

---

### Post by theller on 2012-04-28
I think I am using the fglrx drivers. I went to additional drivers and activated ATI something.

For an SSD it does seem slow. 10.04 was much quicker.

I did put some files (Temp and stuff) in the RAM (figured I would use the 16g). Could that have caused a problem?

---

### Post by theller on 2012-04-29
I think it war compiz. I activated the cube and that might of messed things up. I f the cube didn't, then me trying to restore compiz and ubiquity did. The beauty of Ubuntu is in 30 min I can install a fresh copy to mess up all over over again.

---

### Post by ndstate on 2012-04-29
I installed Bootchart to provide more details about the boot processes.  You can see some parts are taking way too long.  Any ideas?

I uploaded the Bootchart image to Dropbox: [http://bit.ly/IJzfIw](http://bit.ly/IJzfIw)

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-04-29
You're need to post the contents of a dmesg so we can see where it's really hanging up.

---

### Post by ndstate on 2012-04-29
Hello,

I have attached the dmesg logs as Libre Office .odt files (otherwise the forum wouldn't let me attach them).

Otherwise you can get the orginial files at [http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1243306/ubuntu/dmesg](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1243306/ubuntu/dmesg) and [http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1243306/ubuntu/dmesg.0](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1243306/ubuntu/dmesg.0)

Thanks

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-04-29
you can always .tar.bz2 plain text file
personally i would export a list of installed programs and reinstall then install my apps (this is where a seperate /home comes in handy)

---

### Post by ndstate on 2012-04-29
Hello,

I have attached the files as a .tar.bz2

This problem occured before I installed any programs.  Also, the install took way longer than typical.

So this problem started with a 100% clean install, I even formatted the /home directory.

Thanks

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-04-29
Whichever drive is sdc (Is it possibly an external HDD or an sd reader) is hanging up the system.

---

### Post by ndstate on 2012-04-29
Hi xyzzyman,

Its an external hard drive that is not on.  Is there a way to make Ubuntu not wait for it?  I only use it once in awhile.

Thanks

---

### Post by whiskers751 on 2012-04-29
Does unplugging the drive change anything?

---

### Post by ndstate on 2012-04-29
Hi whiskers751,

Yes that does help a bit.  That gets me down to 55 seconds, which is way better than it was.  However, 10.04 and 11.10 booted in around 30 seconds, sometimes shorter.

Is there a way I can do this without having to unplug it each time?

I have attached the bootchart as well as the newest dmesg files.

Thanks for all of you help.

---

### Post by whiskers751 on 2012-05-02
Hm - maybe the system is having trouble with your card's drivers!

---

