---
title: "Why 12.04 OS crashes and how to fix that?"
date: 2014-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dai Tang on 2014-02-25
I was using Ubuntu 12.04 for at least one year. Unfortunately the OS crashed and I don't know why it happened someday in last week. 
I can not log in, and consequently the USB connection doesn't work. The mainboard has no problem.

There are nearly 500 G data from computer simulation. It's  really time comsuming job to install simulation software again and to manage related  setting. 
So re-installing OS is not my best option currently if the problem  can be fixed. 
_[SIZE=2]**I really hope that people could give me some suggestion to fix the OS, at least copy my data out.**[/SIZE]_

The error information:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BusyBox v1.10.5 (Ubuntu 1:1.10.5-1ubuntu4.1) built-in shell (ash)
Enter ‘help’ for a list of built-in commands.

(initranfs) _

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-02-25
I don't know that error. Somebody else may.

You may be able to boot from a live disk and then backup your files, including the config files of your simulation software. This should make reinstalling it, if necessary, as easy as restoring the backup.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2014-02-25
You had a kernel panic at 220 seconds after boot.  That is a hard crash and is usually brought about by a hardware problem.  Since this system had been working OK for a year, I would presume a power supply or perhaps bad capacitors on the motherboard.  Take it apart and clean it and test the voltages with a meter.  If the voltages are OK, then perhaps the power supply is weak and can't supply enough current.  Start removing unessential parts and get the system down to a bare minimum to isolate the problem.

If you do get it up with a LiveDVD or USB, check the SMART status of the drive:

```
sudo smartctl -a /dev/sda
```

If you see drive errors, then start your data recovery process (grab what you can) because you may not have much time left.

---

### Post by Dai Tang on 2014-03-13
Sorry for replying late. I re-installed Ubuntu. Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by Dai Tang on 2014-03-13
I found that the problem came from the power supply finally. It's the right time to let it be retired. Fortunately I backed up all my data in time as you suggested. Thanks so much for your help. ^-^

---

