---
title: "13.10 fails to connect to wired network when resuming from suspend."
date: 2013-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Paulgirardin on 2013-10-19
This happens most of the time since I installed 13.10,but not all the time.
Clicking the network indicator does not reconnect while it is in this state,only rebooting will reconnect.
Once it is reconnected, I can click on the indicator and disconnect and reconnect at will.
Any suggestions as to what this is caused by?

---

### Post by Paulgirardin on 2013-10-22
bump

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2013-10-22
a bug!
bit me too, although in testing they said no one had this happen.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1242679](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1242679)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1242679](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/1242679)

You can run terminal commands to take it from sleeping.

sudo nmcli nm sleep false
OR
sudo restart network-manager

I hope they fix this. Tell launchpad it affects you too. If you sign in you can click and tell them that.

---

### Post by Paulgirardin on 2013-10-22
Thanks for the info.I will notify launchpad.

---

### Post by CoverYourActions on 2013-10-22
13.10 also has the same problem with my wireless network.

---

### Post by nosport on 2013-10-23
Yes, got this problem here too.

Surprisingly annoying...

Grrr!

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2013-10-23
I have found a serious issue now with the suspend.
The video card's fan (it is an x1300) will sometimes not spin up again!
I was using the PC and was getting video corruption then I looked down and the video fan is off.
It is free spinning so not stuck. I have the cover off as I was setting up 13.10 on the drive for another PC.

I can not use ubuntu if it is going to ruin my hardware. I certainly CAN NOT trust the suspend feature. It is totally random, sometimes following suspend the fan comes on, sometimes it does not.

I also put this on the launchpad bug comments.
If you have an AMD x1300 AGP card with a fan, it might not be spinning after a suspend.
Maybe it also affects other video cards.
Suspend is not waking up the things it should.

How will you know if your video card's fan is spinning unless you look like I have.
If it does not spin cant this burn up the video chip?

---

### Post by heffo_j on 2013-10-24
Suspend doesn't wake up for me either. I lose keyboard, mouse and wireless. Thought it might be my nvidia card clashing with X (didn't do it with 13.04) but Nouvea has the same problems. I have search and tried multiple suggestions (more than once) to no avail. I also gave the tried and true tuxonice a go but it too fails to suspend as well. 

John

---

### Post by marcinkowski on 2013-10-27
This fixed the network issue for me:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182128&p=12830153#post12830153](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182128&p=12830153#post12830153)

---

### Post by Paulgirardin on 2013-10-28
Mine seems to be connecting more reliably now.Not sure it is fixed though.

---

### Post by Atcold on 2013-11-03
> **marcinkowski said:**
> This fixed the network issue for me:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182128&p=12830153#post12830153](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182128&p=12830153#post12830153)
Actually this did fix even a worse problem for me!
After suspension I did not have any network connectivity and neither multiple reboots had solved the issue. I was totally isolated from the network!
Then I applied the fix, sent the PC to suspension, awoke it and, tadaa! everything works fine now! :)

---

### Post by Dr.Death on 2013-11-23
> **marcinkowski said:**
> This fixed the network issue for me:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182128&p=12830153#post12830153](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182128&p=12830153#post12830153)

this fix work with me also, thanks for sharing

---

### Post by isopropanol on 2014-11-12
I'm using 14.04, and just started getting this around a week ago, but in case anyone comes across this...

An **ifconfig** only shows the **lo** (loopback) interface.
Running the commands
[B]sudo dhclient -r eth0
sudo dhclient eth0[/B]
gives back the wired internet connection.

Substituting a wireless interface for eth0 should work as well, though you need to know the names of your interface beforehand.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2014-11-12
Go back to sleep, old thread. 

If anyone needs help with this issue in a supported version of Ubuntu - 13.10 is now past end-of-life - please start a new thread.

Thread closed.

---

