---
title: "Dell 24&quot; 1920x1200 resolution problem"
date: 2005-12-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sham on 2005-12-06
I'm going insane :mad:

I just upgraded to breezy, and now my screen resolution will not go above 1400x1050. I was using a modified xorg.conf which was taken from John's post here:

[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=73032&highlight=Dell+1920x1200](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=73032&highlight=Dell+1920x1200)

which worked fantastically. I have looked entensively for a solution, and nothing seems to work. I've posted my xorg.conf for you to look at. Any help would be truly apppreciated since this is my work machine and I need to get it going asap!

Many thanks


 # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
#	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600XT]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option          "ConnectedMonitor"      "DFP"
        Option          "IgnoreDisplayDevices"  "CRT,TV"
        Option          "ExactModeTimingsDVI"   "True"  #Force use of ModeLine
        Option          "UseEdidFreqs"          "False" #Override Monitor section
        Option          "IgnoreEDID"            "True"  #Don't probe monitor
        Option          "NoBandWidthTest"       "True"  #Don't test memory speed
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier      "DELL 2405FPW"
        Option          "DPMS"
        DisplaySize     518.4 324
        HorizSync       30-81
        VertRefresh     56-76
        Mode            "1920x1200"
                DotClock 154.0
                HTimings 1920 1968 2000 2080
                VTimings 1200 1203 1209 1235
                Flags    "+HSync" "-VSync"
        EndMode
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV31 [GeForce FX 5600XT]"
	Monitor		"DELL 2405FPW"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1920x1200"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by frodon on 2005-12-06
i find your HorizSync and VertRefresh parameters a little bit low, could you tell us the exact name of your screen ?

Edit : i saw it in your xorg.conf, i'm looking for the specification

Edit : no problem with your configuration for me, strange :(

---

### Post by oobuntoo on 2005-12-06
I have the same LCD. Everything works fine for me. Check out my xorg.conf on this thread:
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=458642#post458642]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=458642#post458642")

---

### Post by Sham on 2005-12-07
Cheers guys,

oobuntoo, your xorg.conf didn't work for me mate :( 

I have no idea what the hell is going on here. Any other suggestions would be really appreciated.

---

### Post by frodon on 2005-12-07
You could try to re-install your nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by Sham on 2005-12-07
[QUOTE=frodon]You could try to re-install your nvidia drivers.[/QUOTE]

If you mean using the nvidia supplied drivers, I tried doing that but it complained. I installed the kernal-source for my current image, but for some reason it didn't like it. I'll try it again a bit later and tell you exactly what the problem was.

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-12-07
The obvious:
1. You _do_ have the hardware? (gf5600xt + dell2405fpw + dvi-cable)
2. You haven't configured another resolution thorough gnomes "Screen Resolution Preferences"? (System->Preferences->Screen Resolution)

The tricky:
3. You are certain that X acutally loads the file you have configured?
4. Any clues in /var/log/Xorg.0.log?

The odd:
5. Does it work with another version of the driver?

---

### Post by oobuntoo on 2005-12-07
[QUOTE=Sham]Cheers guys,

oobuntoo, your xorg.conf didn't work for me mate :( 

I have no idea what the hell is going on here. Any other suggestions would be really appreciated.[/QUOTE]

Since your post is under KDE section, I'm assuming that you're using KDE. I'm also assuming that you had already installed the closed-source nvidia driver "nvidia-glx" package. Have you tried adjusting the screen size and refresh rate under "Display" in the System Settings for KDE. If that still doesn't work, try "nv" driver instead of "nvidia" driver. Make sure you back up your xorg.conf file before making any changes.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2005-12-07
Im totally adding this to my subscriptions. :) I plan on buying one of these in Jan.

Sorry to be a bit off topic but how do you guys like the 24" Dell w/Ubuntu? :) Any problems? Also, what did you guys pay for yours? Best price I can find is $700+shipping on Ebay.

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-12-08
Apart from nvidia not beeing the best driver in the world, I must say that anything less than 24" is a waste of money.

I paid like $1300 for mine, it was worth every penny though. I think it was a better investment that upgrading cpu/ram/mobo.

---

### Post by oobuntoo on 2005-12-08
[QUOTE=John Nilsson]Apart from nvidia not beeing the best driver in the world, I must say that anything less than 24" is a waste of money.

I paid like $1300 for mine, it was worth every penny though. I think it was a better investment that upgrading cpu/ram/mobo.[/QUOTE]

Agree. For people who are looking LCD larger than 20", Dell 2405FPW is best bang for the bucks. You can get it as cheap as $780 if you buy it at the right time. Dell usually put out online coupon that gives as much as 35% off for this LCD. Google search "Dell 2405fpw+coupon" and hope you get lucky. This was how I've got mine.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2005-12-08
How sharp is the picture? I went to the Apple store to get a idea of how big the screen is and was amaized at the picture. Dell advertises a 12ms refresh rate. Is that B&W? If it is whats the color? 

Could one of the guys with 1920x1200 post a screenshot? :)

---

### Post by Sham on 2005-12-08
[QUOTE=John Nilsson]The obvious:
1. You _do_ have the hardware? (gf5600xt + dell2405fpw + dvi-cable)
2. You haven't configured another resolution thorough gnomes "Screen Resolution Preferences"? (System->Preferences->Screen Resolution)

The tricky:
3. You are certain that X acutally loads the file you have configured?
4. Any clues in /var/log/Xorg.0.log?

The odd:
5. Does it work with another version of the driver?[/QUOTE]

Sorry for not getting back to you sooner. Xmas lunch with the lab, hence most drunk yesterday :???: 

I found something in Xorg.0.log which may be relevant:

(II) NVIDIA(0): DELL 2405FPW: Using hsync range of 30.00-81.00 kHz
(II) NVIDIA(0): DELL 2405FPW: Using vrefresh range of 56.00-76.00 Hz
(II) NVIDIA(0): Clock range:  12.00 to 140.40 MHz
(II) NVIDIA(0): Not using mode "1920x1200" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)
(II) NVIDIA(0): Not using mode "1920x1200" (bad mode clock/interlace/doublescan)

Does this help at all?

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-12-08
Thats your problem, you need a pixelclock of 154MHz...

hmm, strange. Do you have several DVI ports on your card? If you do you could maybe switch...

Could you post your entire log? (As an attachment)

---

### Post by Sham on 2005-12-08
[QUOTE=John Nilsson]Thats your problem, you need a pixelclock of 154MHz...

hmm, strange. Do you have several DVI ports on your card? If you do you could maybe switch...

Could you post your entire log? (As an attachment)[/QUOTE]

i only have the one DVI port, so I'm attaching the whole log as requested. Thanks for looking into it!

Edit. the file is too big to attach. Go to [http://jenner.imm.ox.ac.uk/~shamit/Xorg.0.log](http://jenner.imm.ox.ac.uk/~shamit/Xorg.0.log)

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-12-08
Ok, this is the culprit...
(--) NVIDIA(0): DFP-0: maximum pixel clock: 140 MHz

I found this [thread]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=54969") with the same problem. So you could try the older driver again, I guess you could use [this guide]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75074").

Another bet is to file a support request to nvidia (make sure to follow their [guidelines]("file:///usr/share/doc/nvidia-glx/README.txt.gz") (Chapter 6))

And/or mail your graphics card vendor for support. I guess a BIOS uppgrade will resolve the issue. (They'd probably be happy if you follow the Nvidia guidlines for them too).

---

### Post by oobuntoo on 2005-12-08
[QUOTE=MetalMusicAddict]How sharp is the picture? I went to the Apple store to get a idea of how big the screen is and was amaized at the picture. Dell advertises a 12ms refresh rate. Is that B&W? If it is whats the color? 

Could one of the guys with 1920x1200 post a screenshot? :)[/QUOTE]

I want to post a 1920x1200 screenshot, but file size(1.6MB) is bigger than the max size allow by this forum. Reducing the image resolution to make file smaller makes it blurry and gives bad impression about this LCD. If there is other way to post it, I would.

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-12-08
Here's a [screenshot]("http://www.milsson.nu/~john/Screenshot.png"). I don't know how it could reflect the sharpness of the display though ;)

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2005-12-08
So, much, space... Damn. I have to wait till mid-Jan to get mine. Gotta buy stupid toys for my kids. :mad:  :)

What video cards do you guys have? Im runnin a nVidia 5700 Ultra. Should be enough right? What about games at that res? Too high? Do you have multiple resolutions in Ubuntu?

I ask about games because I have a 43" plasma I play games on in widescreen. I usually run 1280x720 (in windows) on that pretty well. Its funny Ive become such a widescreen snob I dont buy games now unless they support widescreen. :) I have just put Ubuntu on the HTPC/Plasma but have to config some things. Im gonna post a thread to get some help.

The Dell is 16:10 though not 16:9 right? Also does the 9 in1 card reader work in Ubuntu?

Sorry about hijacking the thread. :)

---

### Post by Sham on 2005-12-09
[QUOTE=John Nilsson]Ok, this is the culprit...
(--) NVIDIA(0): DFP-0: maximum pixel clock: 140 MHz

I found this [thread]("http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?t=54969") with the same problem. So you could try the older driver again, I guess you could use [this guide]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=75074").

Another bet is to file a support request to nvidia (make sure to follow their [guidelines]("file:///usr/share/doc/nvidia-glx/README.txt.gz") (Chapter 6))

And/or mail your graphics card vendor for support. I guess a BIOS uppgrade will resolve the issue. (They'd probably be happy if you follow the Nvidia guidlines for them too).[/QUOTE]


Thanks John. Just out of interest, why do you think this has happened? It was fine under hoary, so was the kernel update the killer blow?

Sham

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-12-09
I think the problem is that the nvidia driver in breezy (7667) has changed the way it determine maximum pixel clock compared to the version in hoary (7174), for some reason this new method doesn't work with your card.

There is a driver called nvidia-glx-legacy which is 7174, maybe it will work for you?

---

### Post by Watter on 2005-12-09
Sham,

What video card are you using? I've found that there is some kind of incompatibility between the nVidia linux drivers and the 5xxx series of cards. Please read the following thread for more details as well as the xorg file I use with my ti4600 and 6800GT to run my two 2405FPW's:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=77292](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=77292)

Good luck!

---

### Post by Sham on 2005-12-09
I'll give the legacy driver a go and see what happens John.

As for my video card, its an fx5600. May this is one of the incompatible ones? :???:

---

### Post by Sham on 2005-12-09
**YES!!!!!!!**

It was the legacy drivers I needed. Thank you very much guys, especially John for helping me out with this. I really appreciate it.

Shamit

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-12-09
I'm glad I could help :)

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2005-12-09
How do I figure out up to what card the legacy driver supports? I have a 5700 Ultra that works fine under Breezy (dual monitor setup) but I dont want suprises when I get my 24".

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2005-12-26
So I get my 24" in a couple of weeks and got a 6800 OC now so I think I will be good with driving the monitor. I cant wait to use The GIMP on it. :)

Im wondering do you guys have the card readers and USB ports working under Ubuntu?

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2005-12-26
I've had booth USB and card readers (only tried memory stick (duo) though) working fine.

One interesting thing to note is that when you power off the monitor usb connection will be lost. So it is possible that mouse and/or keyboard stops working after turing it off, an on again. For me /dev/input/mouse0 became /dev/input/mouse1 after such a restart (solved it my using /dev/input/mice)...

About the driver issue, no way to tell, just try. Ctrl+F1 will get you to a CLI interface where you can fix the issue.

I guess "sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-legacy" (and "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart" or "shutdown -r now" depending on mood) is all you'd need to get it working (is that correct Sham?)

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2006-01-08
MY 24" IS COMMIN'!! :)

Got it from Dell for $889. Not the *best* price I found but with the 3-year warranty it was worth the couple of extra dollars.

I just noticed this thing has Component, Composite, DVI and S-Video inputs. Anyone using them? Hows the picture?

I have a nVidia 6800. That should be fine to drive to monitor at 1920x1200 right?

Does anyone play games on this monster? :) Even though this monster has a younger, bigger brother now. The 30" is out. :o

Also, do any of you guys have the "squeal/high-pitched wine" problem that is widely reported?

---

### Post by John Nilsson on 2006-01-09
> I have a nVidia 6800. That should be fine to drive to monitor at 1920x1200 right?

I guess it should work just fine, my 6600GT has no problems with it (appart from driver problems though). The nvidia driver in dapper ( 1.0.8178 ) doesn't have the problems that I've described in my first post, but it's kind of unstable atm.

> Does anyone play games on this monster? :) Even though this monster has a younger, bigger brother now. The 30" is out. :o

I haven't noticed any of the problems that people associate with response time, but it's kind of annoying when games doesn't support wide screen. Enemy Terriotry, (my favourit games), doesn't but there's some hacking one can do to mitigate the problem. The size of the monitor really do help to immerse you into the game.

> 
Also, do any of you guys have the "squeal/high-pitched wine" problem that is widely reported?

I've only heard this when driving the monitor at a non-native resolution. Even then it's rare. Nver been botherd with it, each time I've heard it something else has been wrong too.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2006-01-09
[QUOTE=John Nilsson]I guess it should work just fine, my 6600GT has no problems with it (appart from driver problems though). The nvidia driver in dapper ( 1.0.8178 ) doesn't have the problems that I've described in my first post, but it's kind of unstable atm.[/QUOTE]
I compiled the .8178 drivers myself so hopefully Ill be cool.

Thanx for all the info man. I hope this monitor is as awesome as it seems. ;)

---

### Post by sorrow777 on 2006-05-23
Talk about reviving a dead thread here (:  lots of good info and i'm going to try it all soon with dapper.  Do any of you have a 2405fpw and a 7900gtx?  thats what i've got... the latest drivers from nvidia don't list the 7900gtx as supported but i was able to get it to work in 5.10 at one point... atleast until i rebooted.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2006-05-23
I would gather you would be fine. 

Just install enable the restricted repos the find **nvidia-glx** in Synaptic or **sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx** (make sure it get the restricted kernel packages). After the drivers are installed from a terminal I would run **sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg**. That will help you with getting your xorg.conf right. Make sure you pick 1920x1200 from the resolution part as well as 60hz for the refresh.

I just noticed in the post above yours I didnt have mine. I love it. :)

---

