---
title: "6.06 install fiasco"
date: 2006-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kornelix on 2006-06-02
The installation went OK, it is what happened afterwards that disappoints me.

1. My boot to fedora was eliminated, but my boot to windows was preserved. I had put ubuntu on a new partition, in hopes I could keep my boot to fedora.

2. The network did not work. I hacked around and found that I have to disable and enable the ethernet device eth0 after each boot, then the network works OK.

3. Biggest mistake: I tried to update the nvidia graphics driver, following the rather elaborate instructions that I was led to by following the system menu help link.  Now the x11 system will not start up, and I have no idea what is wrong or how to fix it. I wonder if I was following the right instructions, or some old ones leftover from the prior version of ubuntu. The web pages are not clear about what version they apply to. 

I am surprised to see various installation instructions posted in the support forums instead of the official web site where people would be more likely to look.

I think I tried this new release much too early. I will come back in a month or two after the dust has settled. Now I need to figure out how to get fedora boot to work again...

BTW, fedora has a 1-step rpm update to get the proprietary nvidia drivers installed (no editing of x11 setup files is required). The non-proprietary open source drivers, which are installed initially, also work better, allowing full screen resolution to be used.

---

### Post by veratyr on 2006-06-02
For the nvidia drivers make sure you have the linux restricted modules installed. Do a search in synaptic for "linux restricted" and you should find the ones that match your kernel. Then edit your xorg.conf to use "nvidia" instead of "nv". 

You can usually boot to the recovery console and change it back to "nv" to get X working again if it didn't work for you at first.

---

### Post by ubnoobie on 2006-06-02
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia) which is an 'official' support page.

for "non legacy" nvidia cards running on dapper, it's basically:

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

and then reboot or at least restart x.

the above is also referenced in the system documentation that's included in a standard desktop install. on gnome it's under the system menu, help -> system documentation; desktop guide -> configuring your system -> hardware  

this same documentation is also at: [http://help.ubuntu.com/6.06/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/hardware.html](http://help.ubuntu.com/6.06/ubuntu/desktopguide/C/hardware.html)


to correct any problems with not having all monitor resolutions available:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

(hit "enter" or 'ok' on parts you don't want to change or don't understand. the monitor settings are at the end of the process. and if you do this after installing nvidia drivers, be sure to select 'nvidia' instead of 'nv' for the video driver.)

---

### Post by kornelix on 2006-06-02
[QUOTE=veratyr]For the nvidia drivers make sure you have the linux restricted modules installed. Do a search in synaptic for "linux restricted" and you should find the ones that match your kernel. Then edit your xorg.conf to use "nvidia" instead of "nv". [/QUOTE]

The instructions I was trying to follow referred me to a category called miscellaneous graphical (restricted). I wonder if I got the right one. Will synaptic actually install a non-kernel-matching version if you ask it to?

---

### Post by lerrup on 2006-06-02
[QUOTE=kornelix]The instructions I was trying to follow referred me to a category called miscellaneous graphical (restricted). I wonder if I got the right one. Will synaptic actually install a non-kernel-matching version if you ask it to?[/QUOTE]

As a dependency they will be installed automatically.  If we knew what instructions you had followed we could see if any of the documentation needed changing.

---

### Post by turbojugend_gr on 2006-06-02
Well, Do this and you will never curse me!! I am using dapper and it works like a GRACE, no need to mention that Fedora is way behind at the moment... (as my also beloved SuSE...)

Make another clean install (using the Desktop CD of Dapper Drake).

Then in synaptic install the nvidia mentioned above and enable it as mentioned above...(ask if you get confused, it is so easy though)

To have your fedora back, in a terminal type "sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst".First of all find in the net the excact code to boot your fedora kernel - for ubuntu K7 kernel it is like this e.g:```
title		Ubuntu, kernel 2.6.15-23-k7
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-23-k7 root=/dev/sda1 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.15-23-k7
savedefault
boot
``` the lines "kernel" and "initrd" you should try to match, the others i believe them to be obvious.But a simple explain should be:```
root     (hdNUMBER,PARTITION)
kernel       THE POSITION OF THE LINUX KERNEL YOU BOOT FOR THIS DISTRO
initrd THE POSITION OF YOUR INTRD IMAGE SHOULD BE IN THE SAME FOLDER AS THE KERNEL
```

Ask me any questions.

---

### Post by kornelix on 2006-06-03
Thanks for the help. I got the monitor working, but things did not exactly work as they should. Here is what I did.

1. Clean install. Installer crashed on the first try. I ran it again and asked that the ubuntu partition be reformatted to get rid of any leftovers from the prior install. This worked. Note: in the crash case, I had asked for a new install, not an upgrade.

2. Network was dead but came alive after disable and enable of etho device.

3. Installed package nvidia-glx using synaptic

4. sudo nvidia-glx-config enable
This did not work. I got a message something like "script cannot proceed automatically" and was asked to update the md5sum or edit the file manually. I edited the file manually, changing the line "nv" to "nvidia".

5. rebooted. Nvidia let its presence be known by flashing a big NVIDIA on the monitor during the startup process.

6. sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
I was asked about 100 questions that only an x11 software specialist would know how to answer. I took the defaults until I got to the monitor driver, when I selected "nvidia instead of the default "nv", and selected the desired resolution of 1920x1200@60Hz.

7. rebooted. ran glxgears. ran fine, except that the customary "frame rate" was never output. 

Editorial comment: with Fedora, I input the make and model of my monitor and did not have to deal with x11 configuration at all. Even before installing the proprietary nvidia driver, I could configure the monitor to 1920x1200 - it was just slow.

I am pondering a move from Fedora to Ubuntu because of its reputation and the more complete and professional user documentation on the web site. I will now slog on and see what else happens.

---

### Post by FrancoNero on 2006-06-04
i also got an "installer crashed" thing almost at the end of the installation process. and since that is on my old slow machine here, i am too frustrated now to try again. A CRASH?? are we on windows? the installation worked fine back in breezy days, why does the dapper installer crash? C R A S H ?

---

