---
title: "11.04 how to get application command shortcut?"
date: 2011-07-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by altjx on 2011-07-26
I want to configure my keyboard shortcuts, but I need to get the commands for certain applications in the list. How do I do this? It appears I can't right click any icons that come up when I search for them.

---

### Post by enimeizoo on 2011-07-26
You need to be more specific. What apps do you need a command for?

That said, the ps command could give you a few of the commands you are looking for. 
```

ps x
```This will give you info about currently running process, including the command line.

(edit) You can also find the command corresponding to a lot of program in the folder /usr/share/applications/ . The .desktop files contain an exec entry corresponding to what is executed to launch the app.
Hope it helps.

---

### Post by altjx on 2011-07-26
> **enimeizoo said:**
> You need to be more specific. What apps do you need a command for?

That said, the ps command could give you a few of the commands you are looking for. 
```

ps x
```This will give you info about currently running process, including the command line.

(edit) You can also find the command corresponding to a lot of program in the folder /usr/share/applications/ . The .desktop files contain an exec entry corresponding to what is executed to launch the app.
Hope it helps.

Well I was trying to change the Print Scrn to "Take Screenshots" since it brings up a quick application allowing you to select certain area (yes i know about alt prnt scrn). Not only this specifically though, but I wanted to know about even in the future as well.

Thanks for your response though, very helpful.

---

### Post by enimeizoo on 2011-07-27
So, did you find it? About the screen capture, ps does the trick under kde.

---

### Post by altjx on 2011-07-27
> **enimeizoo said:**
> So, did you find it? About the screen capture, ps does the trick under kde.

Thanks for following up man. I actually haven't had the time to run it yet. I just took a look back at this thread not too long ago. I'll let you know when I make it home.

Really appreciate your help.

---

### Post by turtle153 on 2011-07-27
In case you're not sure about using terminal commands, you can do the same in the System Monitor. Just got to the Processes tab and mouse over the program in the list and a message will popup telling you the command to run it.

To save you time, ```
gnome-screenshot --interactive
``` is the command to open the tool.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-07-27
> **altjx said:**
> I want to configure my keyboard shortcuts, but I need to get the commands for certain applications in the list. How do I do this? It appears I can't right click any icons that come up when I search for them.

Hit Alt-F2 and type ```
alacarte
```

Using your screenshot example, in the left hand tab click accessories, then in the right, highlight Take Screenshot.

In the righthand sidebar, click Properties. In the command box, you will see that the command excecuted by the screenshot (in your menu) is

```
gnome-screenshot --interactive
```

[ATTACH]198615[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by altjx on 2011-07-27
Many thanks! I'm pretty sure your replies are exactly what I'm looking for. Going to mark this thread as solved for now. Thanks everyone.

---

### Post by turtle153 on 2011-07-27
> **nothingspecial said:**
> Hit Alt-F2 and type ```
alacarte
```

This works but probably isn't the best answer seeing as Ubuntu 11.10 won't have the standard Gnome desktop installed by default. I expect that alacarte will be removed from preinstalled packages.

If you need a featurful way of taking screenshots, I recommend _[shutter](http://shutter-project.org/)_ which can to much more than the Gnome tool.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-07-27
> **turtle153 said:**
> This works but probably isn't the best answer seeing as Ubuntu 11.10 won't have the standard Gnome desktop installed by default. I expect that alacarte will be removed from preinstalled packages.


You are probably right. I used to use that method along time ago to help users set up things like printing or what-have-you over ssh.

Of course the correct answer for the future, whatever it may bring is

```
apropos screenshot
```

followed by

```
man gnome-screenshot
```

but we try to make things easy :popcorn:

---

