---
title: "10.04 Help - Most of my files just vanished"
date: 2012-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by paul_j on 2012-04-22
I have been running ubuntu 10.04 for a year, but still a newbie

Today, everything running fine then one of my apps reports a problem that it can't find a file it has been working with.

I navigate to the folder, and find that most of my data folders are not listed at all, using ls logged in as root.

Odd thing is freespace and space used looks right, there are thousands of missing files and folders about 150gb in size taking up 60% of hard disk.

First thoughts, corrupt file system, it is using ext4 format. So I boot live usb stick and run fsck on the partition.

All comes back clean as a whistle, reporting correct used space.

I then run the find command to see if the files have been moved somewhere else.

The find command sees the files ok, that's great, but it is finding them on the correct file path names.

Running ls on the same path sees nothing, logged in as root all the time.

If I find a text file, and run gedit with the full path. Gedit loads with empty file.

I just want to recover my data from the drive. :confused:

I hope someone can help me get my data back.

Not sure I can trust ubuntu any more.

Best Regards,
Paul

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-04-22
What does ```
ls -la /home
``` in terminal show as output?  It should show something similar to this:-
```
drwxr-xr-x  4 root   root        4096 2012-04-19 08:11 .
drwxr-xr-x 22 root   root        4096 2012-04-22 20:00 ..
drwxr-xr-x 65 username username      4096 2012-04-22 21:51 username
```
If it does not show the third row with your username as owner of the username folder, something has gone wrong with your home folder ownership, which can be put right with a simple command.

---

