---
title: "Dual monitor span issue (aticonfig).. xorg.conf help."
date: 2008-07-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by velocd on 2008-07-14
G'day Ubuntu community,

For the life of me I can't seem to get dual monitor span mode working in Ubuntu. When I initially set up Ubuntu with my ATI x800XL card, I got aticonfig configured correctly to use dual monitors and also span the desktop (i.e. able to move windows from one screen to the other seamlessly).

I had to take my ATI card out for little while last week, going back to single-monitor. I put it in again today, and while dual monitors works spanning does not.

The steps I originally took that worked, and don't work now are:

1. System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers -> Enable proprietary ATI driver.
2. sudo aticonfig -f --initial=dual-head --screen-layout=right

Running this outputs:
[FONT="Courier New"][I]
Uninitialised file found, configuring.
Using xorg.conf[/I][/FONT]

Dual monitors works at this point. Then:

3. sudo aticonfig --dtop=horizontal --overlay-on=1

Running this outputs:

[FONT="Courier New"][I]Warning: Failed to set hardware overlay to head 1 immediately.
Warning: Option 'DesktopSetup' doesn't affect running session.
Using xorg.conf
Saved back-up to xorg.conf.fglrx-42[/I][/FONT]

For some reason step #3 erases the changes step #2 does to xorg.conf, but adds the span option to the conf file. However this disables dual monitors. So I manually had to edit the file from step #2 and add in the span options.

Anyway, here's the actual xorg.conf which I would think should work but doesn't span correctly:

```

#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
        Screen         "aticonfig-Screen[1]" RightOf "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver      "kbd"
        Option      "XkbRules" "xorg"
        Option      "XkbModel" "pc105"
        Option      "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
        Driver      "mouse"
        Option      "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        Option      "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
        Option      "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
        Option      "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
        Option      "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
        Option      "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
        Option      "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        Option      "DesktopSetup" "horizontal"
        Option      "OverlayOnCRTC2" "1"
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[1]"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
        Screen      1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
        Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport   0 0
                Depth     24
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[1]"
        Device     "aticonfig-Device[1]"
        Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Viewport   0 0
                Depth     24
        EndSubSection
EndSection

```

Again, dual monitors works but span mode doesn't.. which I thought [FONT="Courier New"]*"Option      "DesktopSetup" "horizontal" Option      "OverlayOnCRTC2" "1"*[/FONT] would make span work.

Any help would be greatly appreciated. =)

---

### Post by Nemo8 on 2008-07-15
Well , i had i guess a similar problem with a Radeon 9550 , i tried all you described above without succes , then i went to add/remove programs and found ATI catalyst control center , i added it and then my right screen became the extension of my main screen.If check the screen resolution i have now 3360x1050.Hope this will help.

---

### Post by IronArjen on 2008-07-15
I also have several problems with Bigdesktop (and dual head) running. I had set it up with aticonfig. Tried what you suggested and 

Cannot install 'fglrx-control'

This application conflicts with other installed software. To install 'fglrx-control' the conflicting software must be removed first.

Switch to the 'synaptic' package manager to resolve this conflict.

Any idea which application conflicts?

---

### Post by Nemo8 on 2008-07-16
I dont know , i have now a new problem installing the ati-driver-install-8-6-86-x86.x86_64.run , it tells me that i have to run the install as a super user , how to do this?Please help:(

---

### Post by IronArjen on 2008-07-16
The superuser is like the administrator of your computer. Ubuntu is nice in this because it allows you to login as a normal user. You work write play etc but you cannot make important changes in how you PC has been set up. In order to make such a change you have to start all your commands with 

sudo

The prompt then asks for your password, which is typically the same as you have as a user but it depends on how the PC has originally been setup.

Other flavors of Linux work with 

su

but this is more a like a complete login, sudo just goes for the command you  give. Hence, keep on adding sudo to your commands that make serious mdoifications. Ubuntu does not always ask for the password but you have to state that you command this as superuser. Hence, also make your backups. In this case of your xorg.conf. 

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Save as xorg.backup (or whatever, as long as you remind it). Then if X cannot start up after you made changes you have to swap back the backup.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-07-16
The directions for properly installing the driver from ATI in Ubuntu Hardy are here:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide)

If you are using fglrx, the proprietary ati driver, changes to xorg.conf will be ignored unless you do this:

sudo aticonfig  --input=/etc/X11/xorg.conf

This will also automatically make a backup of your existing xorg.conf

If you have downloaded a driver from ati and installed it, the Catalyst Control Center in the repos is incompatible. You should have the latest Catalyst Control Center already installed in Applications/Other which may be hidden but can be unhidden in System/Preferences/Main Menu.

Alternatively, you can run it from the command line:

amdcccle

Anyway, you should not be using aticonfig for setting up your dual monitors unless you have some special need that Catalyst Control Center does not meet.

---

### Post by joey_breizh on 2009-01-14
Does anyone remember the exact name that aticonfig backs up the xorg.conf as? I think it's /etc/X11/xorg.conf-original-1 but I'd like confirmation. 

Thanks!

---

### Post by andrew frank on 2010-07-28
i have dual monitors working and i can drag a window from one to the other - but i could once also have windows that were spanning both monitors (i.e. windows which were 3840 wide (i have 3840 by 1080 resolution). now my windows are limited to one screen max. where is the switch to allow larger windows?
thanks !

andrew

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-07-28
as there are EDID isssues with Dell hardware, add:

Option "UseEDID" "false"

into xorg.conf

---

