---
title: "10.04 update Manager not showing up 'Release Upgrade'!?"
date: 2011-02-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Saurabhdua on 2011-02-16
Hello There!

Have just installed 10.04 in the lure to get 10.10, the latest release(Guys out there at the Launchpad have become SMART & thwarted an another attempt of mine to fetch a free CD again!)

Update Manager shows up relevant updates of upto 301.something MBs in size BUT is not reflecting the latest release 10.10?!

Went to the settings to try out "Normal Release" under Release upgrade options, but nothing shows up on 10.10.

When can I expect 10.10 start getting reflected within Update Manager?

---

### Post by DanneStrat on 2011-02-16
> **Saurabhdua said:**
> Hello There!

Have just installed 10.04 in the lure to get 10.10, the latest release(Guys out there at the Launchpad have become SMART & thwarted an another attempt of mine to fetch a free CD again!)

Update Manager shows up relevant updates of upto 301.something MBs in size BUT is not reflecting the latest release 10.10?!

Went to the settings to try out "Normal Release" under Release upgrade options, but nothing shows up on 10.10.

When can I expect 10.10 start getting reflected within Update Manager?

You have to install all the available updates first.

Open "update manager" and select "check" to check

for new updates and then apply all the updates available.

Then press "check" again. Now you should be prompted

that a new release is available.

---

### Post by plucky on 2011-02-16
> When can I expect 10.10 start getting reflected within Update Manager? 

10.04 is a LTS release and so it will not show the 10.10 release upgrade unless you change the **Release Upgrade button** to **Normal**. (See Attachment)

It is located in **System > Administration > Software Sources > Updates**

Good Luck

---

### Post by Saurabhdua on 2011-02-17
Thanks Plucky!

I did what you stated & now it is definitely showing up "Release Upgrade" at the very top.

Please do, if you can, convey my 'Thumbs up' to the Launchpad Team since 'Free Lunch' should not be expected for everytime...& that's what I have learnt!

---

### Post by GazuliGod on 2011-02-21
I was having the same issue but it isnt showing up in update manager even though i installed all current updates, rebooting computer didnt help.

---

### Post by robertlbolton on 2011-02-27
Thanks Plucky, changing my updates from* Long Term Support Releases* to *Normal Releases* did the trick!

---

