---
title: "10.04 false I/O errors and random freezes"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joshkephart on 2010-05-04
So, I'm on about my fifth fresh install of Lucid Lynx with the exact same result every way I try it.  Here's what happens: 

After a fresh install, I begin going about my business.  Surfing, setting accounts up, etc.  At some point (it is completely random, sometimes 10 seconds, sometimes 10 minutes, sometimes 30 minutes), the desktop will freeze up.  The mouse will still be completely responsive, but clicking on stuff does nothing.  

So, in that state, if I drop to terminal via CNTL+ALT+F1, I get a login prompt that I can't use because the screen begins filling up with endless 'Buffer I/O error on device sda3' and 'EXT-fs error' etc.  

There aren't any issues with the drive.  I was previously running 9.10 without issue, and just to make sure I have done another clean install of 9.10 in between one of the many 10.04 installs and it works fine.  

I skimmed through dmesg but didn't see anything helpful.  I don't really know where to start looking at this point.  I've been googling for a while now, but have had zero luck finding anyone experiencing the same thing.  I did see a couple forum posts that were kind of similar (frozen display but functional mouse), but those led no where.  

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  I really don't want to have to drop back to 9.10.  

Specs:

Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit
Pentium D
NVidia GeForce 7800

---

### Post by joshkephart on 2010-05-04
Oh, it might also be worth noting.  After this happens, if I hard reboot and let it try to load again, it prompts that there are file system errors and asks if I want to fix them.  Selecting fix end up showing that /tmp is unavailable and prompts you to wait or continue.  I chose wait and after a few seconds it'll reboot normally.  This seems to happen consistently every time.

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2010-05-04
Your hard disk drive might be developing some problems.  Check your HDD's health with disk utility (System->admin->disk  utility). Click on the drive, choose smart data and run extended tests.
If you know your disk's manufacturer (Samsung, Hitachi etc), go to their  website, download disk checking tools and run them to reconfirm the  results.
Assuming /dev/sda3 to be an ext* partition and if the health of your disk is good, run this command from a liveCD without mounting that partition:
```
sudo e2fsck -C0 -p -f -v /dev/sda3
```
If this gives any errors, then run:
```
sudo e2fsck -f -y -v /dev/sda3
```

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2010-05-04
Try not to hard reboot.
It just corrupts the filesystem and it has to recover on next boot as you have found.

Do this instead for a clean shutdown, do it slow with a second between each key and sometimes you have to do it twice but it generally works fine.

link...[http://www.arsgeek.com/2006/12/12/how-to-gracefully-reboot-your-ubuntudebian-system-if-all-else-fails/](http://www.arsgeek.com/2006/12/12/how-to-gracefully-reboot-your-ubuntudebian-system-if-all-else-fails/)

---

### Post by inop on 2010-05-05
I'm having the same problem.  I thought it was Drapes acting up, but I stopped it and still had freezing and I/O problems.  It starts small, like firefox not loading a new webpage when I click on a link.  Then the Desktop stops responding, and all of the terminals I can bring up won't let me login, just say things like:
"3262.000096 end_request" and "I/O error /dev/sda sector 551783" and "Buffer I/O error on dev/sda1 logical block 2129920".  I have run all scans on the drive, even random read/write tests and all SMART tests, and all come back clean (unless I hard reboot--will use REISUB in the future, thanks!).  I really want to figure this out, but I am a total linux noob!  I don't even know where to look for the error logs to help track down the problem. :(  I consider(ed) myself knowledgeable when it comes to computers (mainly DOS and Windows), but linux has always made me feel inadequate.  Thanks for any advice, especially along the lines where to find more info on error logs and how to read them. Hmm, maybe I'll type that into google and see where it leads me...

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2010-05-05
Login to a virtual terminal by pressing Ctrl+Alt+F2.  To get back into gnome, press Ctrl+alt+F7.
In the virtual terminal, login and type "dmesg | less".  You scroll forward and backward by using 'f' and 'b' keys.  Use 'q' to quit.  Check for any errors.  Also go to system logs located in /var/log/ .  Look at syslog using "less syslog".  Similarly look at other logs Xorg.0.log, daemon.log, kern.log etc.  Also, in your home directory, there should be a file called .xsession-errors.  Take a look at that file.
Note that if you encounter a freeze in gnome but if you are able to get to the virtual terminals, type "sudo service gdm restart" to restart gnome.

---

### Post by inop on 2010-05-05
Crossing my fingers!  It's been 46 minutes of "normal" activity and no freezing yet.  It happened again before this interlude though. :(  It was different though:  I would click on an object in the panel or try to use a hot key to open anything, and a little pop-up window came up spelling out I/O error. Also, in a terminal (CTRL>ALT>F2) it was at the login prompt, but I would try to log in and nothing would happen for 1 or 2 minutes.  Then the login prompt would appear as before!  Is .xsession-errors in chronological order, with latest errors at the end of the file?  Is it from the current session, or all sessions?  Also, my install is on the Ext4 file system, should I switch back to Ext3 (if so then how).

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-05
Hi, I'm experiencing the same problems, with the OS that after the first 10-15 minutes starts to being glitchy,slow responsive and overall "ugly": i have placed a sysmonitor applet with I/O waits highlighted, and noticed large spikes and even I/O wait topping for several seconds, even minutes. 
I have tried what john newbuntu suggested in his 2 posts with no luck... My system is really new, consisting in an ASUS m4a785t-m motherboard with integrated graphics ati HD4200 (btw, noticed some improvements disabling fglrx and using open drivers), an AMd athlon2 x2 processor, 1G ddr3 ram and a 500G seagate barracuda.
I have noticed that those spikes of IOwait happens when accessing HD, especially when launching applications.
Any help is appreciated !

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-05
just to be more clear: i started wine installation via ubuntu software center: in the meantime i am browsing the internets and this forum, and firefx hung 3 times (grey window), while IOwaits spiked at 100% for entire minutes...

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-05
again, noticed how memory usage is almost 100%, with little use of swap, but sum all the memory used by the various processes (less than 200 MB) do not justify 700+ MB of used ram - i already detracted IGP shared memory

please say something

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-05
See if any of these (unresolved) bugs at Launchpad seem like your problem, and add information as appropriate:

Filesystems end up remounted read-only [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/515937](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/515937) Bug #515937
*Sometimes (occasionally after resume, but also after just being left alone for a while) my /home LV will become read-only.*

Repetitive massive filesystem corruption [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/528981](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/528981) Bug #528981
[I]This problem has been ongoing since Kubuntu 9.10 but I was unable to take the time to properly diagnose the error during that product cycle (and I hoped a newer kernel would solve the problem). I can also report that the problem is reproducible in openSUSE 11.2, so this is possibly even a mainline kernel problem.
In short, I experience massive filesystem corruption on ext4. In 9.10 I could also reproduce the corruption using ext3, but I have not yet had a chance to test ext3 under 10.04. I was also able to reproduce the problem on 9.10 by mounting from Live CD and creating a filesystem on an internal hard drive. The symptions on 10.04 are so far identical, but I haven't yet been able to perform all the testing I did under 9.10. I have attached an example fsck log from current 10.04.
Corruption is sometimes detected when booting; other times the filesystem switches to read-only while the system is running. The latter is what happened on the first boot of my current installation of 10.04. A subsequent boot left me able to perform all system updates. Then after rebooting the system the filesystem switched to read-only within a few minutes of logging in. The only cure for the read-only filesystem is to boot from CD and run e2fsck manually.[/I]

resume from suspend does not work [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/568711](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/568711) Bug #568711
[I]Description: Ubuntu lucid (development branch) Release: 10.04<br />
Hibernate and resume from hibernate work as espected. Suspend works as expected. Resume from suspend gives me a black screen and nothing else. Systems seems operational except for display. (there's cpu and disk activity) ctrl-alt-f1 does nothing.[/I]

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-05
thanks StuartN, but i've followed your links without any luck. Still, i've disabled compiz, and rebooted: my ram, at startup, no applications running, no unusual services, was at 75% in use, and after some minutes was at 86%, and i am not able to determine where is going, given that all of the ram used by processes don't exceed 150MB.

This seems like a nasty bug...

below here is a "top" result:
```
top - 22:08:32 up 13 min,  2 users,  load average: 0.46, 0.49, 0.43
Tasks: 176 total,   1 running, 175 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s):  4.3%us,  1.5%sy,  0.0%ni, 93.4%id,  0.8%wa,  0.0%hi,  0.0%si,  0.0%st
Mem:    762848k total,   755212k used,     7636k free,     7912k buffers
Swap:  2232312k total,    37372k used,  2194940k free,    73740k cached

  PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND            
 1829 XXXX      20   0  515m 110m  21m S    4 14.8   1:03.35 firefox-bin        
 1147 root      20   0  128m  28m 7352 S    3  3.9   0:30.31 Xorg               
 1915 xxxx      20   0  208m  14m  10m S    2  2.0   0:00.45 gnome-terminal     
 1504 xxxx      20   0  291m  13m  10m S    1  1.8   0:00.81 metacity           
  369 root      20   0     0    0    0 S    1  0.0   0:00.41 usb-storage        
 1934 root      20   0 19216 1420 1024 R    1  0.2   0:00.15 top                
 1708 xxxx      20   0  257m  12m 8996 S    0  1.7   0:01.67 sensors-applet     
    1 root      20   0 23776 1576 1036 S    0  0.2   0:00.50 init               
    2 root      20   0     0    0    0 S    0  0.0   0:00.00 kthreadd           
    3 root      RT   0     0    0    0 S    0  0.0   0:00.01 migration/0        
    4 root      20   0     0    0    0 S    0  0.0   0:00.18 ksoftirqd/0        
    5 root      RT   0     0    0    0 S    0  0.0   0:00.00 watchdog/0         
    6 root      RT   0     0    0    0 S    0  0.0   0:00.00 migration/1        
    7 root      20   0     0    0    0 S    0  0.0   0:00.04 ksoftirqd/1        
    8 root      RT   0     0    0    0 S 
```

---

### Post by joshkephart on 2010-05-05
> **robert shearer said:**
> Try not to hard reboot.
It just corrupts the filesystem and it has to recover on next boot as you have found.

Do this instead for a clean shutdown, do it slow with a second between each key and sometimes you have to do it twice but it generally works fine.

link...[http://www.arsgeek.com/2006/12/12/how-to-gracefully-reboot-your-ubuntudebian-system-if-all-else-fails/](http://www.arsgeek.com/2006/12/12/how-to-gracefully-reboot-your-ubuntudebian-system-if-all-else-fails/)

Exellent tip, thanks a bunch.  

So, some more info.  An extended SMART scan using the disk utility has been running for an hour so far just in case.  I really don't think it's a real HD issue though.  As I said, I can run 9.10 and WIndows 7 without issue.  

Just for kicks (and I haven't taken a look at it in forever so I wanted to do that anyway), I installed Kubuntu 10.04.  It exhibited pretty much the exact same behaviour, ran fine for about 15 minutes or so, then did the same thing that Ubuntu did, desktop freeze, with no response from the terminal when I switch to it via CNTL+ALT F1.  The terminal is where I receive all the I/O errors I started the thread with, they begin happening as soon as I type my username into the terminal and hit enter.  

So, I'm curious if it might be a kernel issue.  Is there any easy way to install a previous kernal to try out?  I've already tried booting to recovery mode, but that just results in a completely blank screen indefinitely (although I think that may be because of the corrupted /tmp issues after a hard boot).  I may try recovery mode after shutting down cleanly.  But yeah, can I easily install a previous kernel to try (assuming it stays responsive long enough for me to do that...)?

Also, I'll look at some of the other logs mentioned, however, dmesg.log and the syslog didn't have anything useful in them the last time I looked.  I'll look at those existing bugs too tomorrow at work.  

Thanks for the responses so far.

---

### Post by inop on 2010-05-06
Hey figosound!  My I/O errors seem to have stopped (knock on wood).  Your problem sounds different.  Are you aware of the xorg memory leak they had prior to release day?  I came across it looking for my problem, and it sounds like you might have it.  Especially since you said something about open drivers.  Check this link: [http://www.webupd8.org/2010/04/xorg-memory-leak-bug-in-ubuntu-1004-fix.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/04/xorg-memory-leak-bug-in-ubuntu-1004-fix.html)
I tested to see if I had the leak, but I came back clean.  Although I am using proprietary Nvidia drivers.  Hope this helps!

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-06
> **inop said:**
> Hey figosound!  My I/O errors seem to have stopped (knock on wood).  Your problem sounds different.  Are you aware of the xorg memory leak they had prior to release day?  I came across it looking for my problem, and it sounds like you might have it.  Especially since you said something about open drivers.  Check this link: [http://www.webupd8.org/2010/04/xorg-memory-leak-bug-in-ubuntu-1004-fix.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/04/xorg-memory-leak-bug-in-ubuntu-1004-fix.html)
I tested to see if I had the leak, but I came back clean.  Although I am using proprietary Nvidia drivers.  Hope this helps!
Thank you mate, but i've tested for that bug, and resulted that i am using GLX 1.2, so no memory leak. btw, just started session now, memory is at 59% used and 31% cache...
On another machine, with ubuntu 9.04 amd64, initial usage is 200MB, with compiz enabled and proprietary drivers. I say bug or regression.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-06
> **figosound said:**
> Thank you mate, but i've tested for that bug, and resulted that i am using GLX 1.2, so no memory leak. btw, just started session now, memory is at 59% used and 31% cache...
On another machine, with ubuntu 9.04 amd64, initial usage is 200MB, with compiz enabled and proprietary drivers. I say bug or regression.

you might report on launchpad

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-06
> **dino99 said:**
> you might report on launchpad

I've digged some more in the process explorer, finding that some phython processes where eating memory like pringles :-) those processes are relative to the Screenlets app, so next step is shutting down that daemon when another system hang happens. Stay tuned folks!

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-06
Ok, since my system is "under construction", i cried some more :cry:, then i grabbed another stick of ddr3 ram (another G, for a total of 2G installed, minus 256 MB of sideport): right after log in memory usage was about 30%, then i surfed the web while installing google earth with ubuntu software center, and suddenly memory was 63% :shock:. Then i quitted all of that stuff, but memory did not returned to 30% but at 50%:???: - there is definitely something wrong, somewhere...

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-06
this memory problem is getting ridiculous... in the system monitor i have 18 (eighteen) pages of processes... 11 processes per page = 198 processes - even windows Really Good Edition is more efficient :lolflag:

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-07
> **figosound said:**
> this memory problem is getting ridiculous... in the system monitor i have 18 (eighteen) pages of processes... 11 processes per page = 198 processes - even windows Really Good Edition is more efficient :lolflag:
btw, it would be nice to add a process counter in the system monitor... Now were can we file requests?

---

### Post by twister77 on 2010-05-07
I had I/O freezes appear 2 days after Lucid 64bit install on my new build. The cause with my system was compiz cube, as soon as I switched back to metacity, the computer was flying.  It would be nice to have compiz running properly, hopefully it will get fixed sometimes in the future.

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-07
Again, i am experiencing a clogged memory; i have the following apps running:

amule - disconnected and not doing anything
transmission - uploading
firefox - what should he do? :-)
terminal - one windows, idle
nautilus - idle
system monitor
screenlets - 4 screenlets active

from system monitor i got the following measurements:

86% memory used
13% cache memory

remember, i have 2Gigs of ram

My old laptop, with ubuntu 8.04, for the same tasks uses 300 MB of memory; sur it is 32bit and not 64, but there is a discrepancy of more than 1Gig !!!

Does anybody have nothing to say about that?? Am I the only one having this issue?? That would be unbelievable  :mad:

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-07
I noticed something strange: started Moovida, played a little, then quited ---> memory usage was at 50%, but i think it's raising again...

---

### Post by MOB_Figga on 2010-05-07
could I suffer from the same thing? i have lucid lynx  (64 bits) installed on a ssd and use a normal hdd for my data.. I altered some settings from the hdd  (using mountmanager) so that it would automount on startup, but ever since then my desktop totally freezes after some time: no mouse movement, no reaction to keyboard, no nothing. The only thing I can do is a 'hard reset' (reset button).. then everything works again (and no, I don't get any filesystem errors).. 

now, the settings have been reset to normal (but it still automounts, which is good!).. but I still have the freezes.. this didn't happen before.. however, I must tell something more about the things I am doing (hdd actions):

I have vuze (azureus) running (multiple torrents), which are saved on the hdd.. and usually I surf the web in the meantime (ffox).. I visit some pages then I'll go and do something else (like watch tv) and my pc is pretty much idling (except for the torrents of course) .. but after some time (not more than 30 or maybe 40 min) it freezes up (like described above)

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-07
How is you ~/.xsession-errors file looking? There are a couple of threads about it filling up.

---

### Post by figosound on 2010-05-07
just for the records, downloaded 10.04 i386, burned on a CD, started live session on aspire 5670 (centrino duo 1.66GHz, 2G ram, ati mobility x1400 - not exactly a monster), and only 270MB of ram are used - 13%, with 27% of cache :mad: I call AMD64 bug, maybe kernel fux up something when interfacing with ram controller? chipset is 785G...

anyway, it's late, tomorrow i will check xsession-errors

---

### Post by tomazi on 2010-05-08
Same here : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469650](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469650) (3 pages ... but not resolved) and for a lot of other people :-( Also look at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) Hope you will find a solution. I tried workarounds A, B, F without success.

I have a lot of stuff in my .xsession-errors file but I don't know what should I do?

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1235): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: cannot register existing type `_PolkitError'

(polkit-gnome-authentication-agent-1:1235): GLib-CRITICAL **: g_once_init_leave: assertion `initialization_value != 0' failed

(gnome-power-manager:1246): GLib-GObject-WARNING **: /build/buildd/glib2.0-2.24.0/gobject/gsignal.c:2273: signal `proxy-status' is invalid for instance `0x88efef8'

(gnome-terminal:1567): Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_accel_map_unlock_path: assertion `entry != NULL && entry->lock_count > 0' failed

---

### Post by sneakermike on 2010-05-10
I was experiencing a lot of random freezing, even when I moved the mouse slowly and didn't give the computer a lot of input. I couldn't even get through one application, like opening a browser of getting my email.  I read this blurb about Intel video cards causing a problem ([http://icewalkerz.blogspot.com/2010/05/how-to-fix-intel-video-card-freezing.html](http://icewalkerz.blogspot.com/2010/05/how-to-fix-intel-video-card-freezing.html)) and checked my computer.  I have an Intel motherboard and I was using the onboard video. I disabled the onboard video, installed a new ATI card (better graphics anyway), started the computer up and BINGO, it works fine now...fast, no problems.

---

### Post by twister77 on 2010-05-16
yea, I thought that compiz was a problem, it was not, freezes were back with vengeance:(...

---

### Post by rmull12 on 2010-06-23
Thanks for the link Tomazi it seemed to work for me.
"Also look at [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes) Hope you will find a solution."

 Armed with that info, I upgraded to the "Current Mainline kernel" and have been problem free since.

 My System is:
Release 10.4 Lucid Kernel 2.6.34-020634-generic Linux-x86_64
NVIDIA 96.43.17 Proprietary Driver Installed (GeForce 7600GT)
Gnome 2.30.0
AMD Athlon X2, 4GB Ram, 64GB SSD

I tried countless loads, 32-bit, 64-bit, with on board video or the 7600GT.. never failed after I left it alone for an unknown amount of time, it would freeze up on me. Its been only 2 days, but system resources seem normal, no lag, delay or freezes.

"Give that man a Bean plant"

---

### Post by sgvaibhav on 2010-09-18
is the bug fixed in ubuntu 10.10 ?
im searching in the forum.. but i am not able to find whether the bug has been fixed or not..

---

### Post by daviescr on 2010-09-18
I feel your pain everyone. After seeing all the issues with 10.4 in this and various other threads, I tried many of the suggested fixes and still had no luck. I rely on Ubuntu as my entertainment and internet access but more importantly I have a little side business that requires reliable computer access. I couldn't go back to windows or osx, I have talked to much $h!t to all my friends that I have given up on windows forever. 

So last week I tried linux mint 9 but had similar problems which makes sense. It too is built on Ubuntu 10.4. So that was a silly choice, besides I don't need some fancy mock up of Ubuntu, I just like Ubuntu. So now as I write this I am currently using 9.10 Karmic and so far it is solid. 
I have run all the updates and installed flash and chromium. 
I have several open firefox windows, listening to internet radio and using the word processor while ubuntuOne syncs new files.
I have tried to get this system to hang or fail and it is working like a champ.The system monitor has sat stable in my panel the whole time.

Things are good again. So I believe there is some sort of hardware issue that 10.4 has yet to resolve. Until that gets sorted out I will continue to enjoy Ubuntu a release behind the rest of you. 

Ubuntu developers,
Good luck, it looks like you have a bit of a challenge ahead to get this worked out. But I do have faith in you guys. Ubuntu Rocks!

---

### Post by sgvaibhav on 2010-09-18
how can i know if this is solved :confused:

---

