---
title: "9.10 upgrade - now no automount of CDROM"
date: 2009-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by egates on 2009-12-02
I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and now CDROMs don't automount (they automounted fine in 9.04).

I can mount from the command line, so this isn't a show stopper.

However, there is a second problem.  Once the disk is mounted I get the
cdrom0 icon on the desktop.  When I click on it, nautilus crashes with a segmentation fault.

I can get the icons back by typing nautilus & in a terminal, but if I click on the cdrom0 icon it again crashes.  

Anyone know the solution? Anyone have ideas to help troubleshooting the issue?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-12-02
> **egates said:**
> I upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10 and now CDROMs don't automount (they automounted fine in 9.04).

I can mount from the command line, so this isn't a show stopper.

However, there is a second problem.  Once the disk is mounted I get the
cdrom0 icon on the desktop.  When I click on it, nautilus crashes with a segmentation fault.

I can get the icons back by typing nautilus & in a terminal, but if I click on the cdrom0 icon it again crashes.  

Anyone know the solution? Anyone have ideas to help troubleshooting the issue?

I find that upgrades are always problematic compared to fresh installs.

Create a new user, log in and see if it mounts correctly.

---

### Post by egates on 2009-12-03
I tried from a new user account and came up with the same problem.  Any further ideas?

---

### Post by jbslaw on 2009-12-03
This problem also applies to fresh installs of Karmic and to automounting of other types of devices such as usb flash drives.  Automounting in gnome is handled by gnome-volume-manager, which was not installed by default.  When you install gnome-volume-manager, apt-get will remove brasero in favor of nautilus-cd-burner.  If you prefer brasero, apt-get will install it, removing nautilus-cd-burner, but leaving gnome-volume-manager alone.

---

### Post by egates on 2009-12-03
gnome-volume-manager is installed and running (though I reinstalled brasero as well).  Still no joy. In fact I've now discovered a bigger problem in which blank DVDs don't mount and I can't seem to mount them from the command line. Hence I can't burn data DVDs for archiving.  Any help for troubleshooting this would be appreciated.

---

### Post by egates on 2009-12-03
Well, blank disks don't automount, but by changing the permissions to a+rw on /dev/sr0 for the drive allows the burning software to run and recognize the drive.  So I've got a work around for now.

---

### Post by ChrisWebb on 2009-12-07
I would seem to have the same problem after upgrade to karmic (amd64): CD/DVDs and USB drives do not automount, but I can mount them manually. Another upgraded system (x86) does not have this issue.

I have completely removed and re-installed gnome-volume-manager but this has made no difference.

Storage Device Manager also fails to run; running from a console produces the following:

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "pysdm.py", line 464, in <module>
    main()
  File "pysdm.py", line 460, in main
    main_window = Mainwindow()
  File "pysdm.py", line 47, in __init__
    SimpleGladeApp.__init__(self, path, root, domain, **kwargs)
  File "/usr/share/pysdm/SimpleGladeApp.py", line 108, in __init__
    self.new()
  File "pysdm.py", line 53, in new
    self.fstab = Fstab(FSTAB)
  File "/usr/share/pysdm/fstab.py", line 91, in __init__
    self.fromFile(fstab)
  File "/usr/share/pysdm/fstab.py", line 132, in fromFile
    parsed = self.parseFS(line)
  File "/usr/share/pysdm/fstab.py", line 123, in parseFS
    return Filesystem(fields[0], fields[1], fields[2], re.split(",",fields[3]), fields[4], fields[5]);
  File "/usr/share/pysdm/fstab.py", line 41, in __init__
    self.spec = uuidToSpec(self.uuid)
  File "/usr/share/pysdm/fstab.py", line 16, in uuidToSpec
    return ls.readline().rsplit()[0]
IndexError: list index out of range

Not sure if that relates to anything or is a problem in its own right...

---

### Post by baccilus on 2010-01-01
Sorry. Double post.

---

### Post by baccilus on 2010-01-01
I am facing the same problem. Did anyone come up with a solution?

---

### Post by stewpac on 2010-01-24
I have the same problem.

---

### Post by quiverfinger on 2010-02-24
Yes, I can confirm this problem (fresh install, new user).
Too bad that this is a show stopper for me. The users I install Linux for are generally
new to computers and certainly new to Linux. I can not expect them to
'open up a terminal' and mount a CD / DVD manually. They expect things to work.

I am very dissapointed that something basic as this is not working in Ubuntu 9.10.
IMHO: things like this should have been tested before any release was made.
Even worse, as of today, there does not seem to be an easy fix for this problem.

I hope this problem will get fixed very soon otherwise I will be forced to look for
some other distro for my new users (I can not use this kind of problem, nor do I
have the time to fix it myself).

Please do not get me wrong, I have been a happy Ubuntu user for several years.
It is just that I am helping out new computer users that do not have any experience
with Linux. I try to make their experience with the OS as nice as can be (without them
giving me too much trouble).

---

### Post by Claude Renaud on 2010-02-28
Strange problem, maybe a kernel version and/or platform specific?
I run karmic on 4 different machines:
1-on my old desktop which is i.386;
2-on my new quad core desktop, also i386;
3-my wife's old G4 ibook ppc; and,
all three have the same problem with cdrom automount.
The exception:
4-my personal laptop, a HP AMD64 TurionX2, no problem at all with automount.
Hope this can help!

---

### Post by quakka on 2010-03-04
Can anyone tell me how the cd/dvd mountpoint ownership and permissions are determined when mounted?

On my 9.10 system, it appears that the cdrom doesn't mount, but it does get mounted.  The problem is that the ownership/permissions are royally borked: uid/gid are -1/-1, and the permissions are 544, which makes the mountpoint inaccessible to everyone but root.

---

### Post by ChrisWebb on 2010-03-15
Just thought I'd mention I sorted out my issue a little while back - I remembered I had been tinkering with the udev rules and created one based on 60-persistent-storage.rules and saved in /etc/udev/rules.d. Removing (or renaming to 60-persistent-storage.rules.bad) and restarting resolved it and now all drives auto-mount as they should.

As for the spurious python error messages I had been getting, I followed up on a few links about Ubuntu Software Center not working and found something that needed removing (can't remember what - blimey, must get more sleep!)

Hope that helps someone...

---

### Post by Claude Renaud on 2010-03-20
I just downloaded and installed 10.04 Lucid Beta 1 and installed it on my 5 year old i386 box which I now call my lab, and it just detected the CDROM without a problem.
CDROM detection had been a problem in 9.10 for quite a while for many of us as I can read on the forums, and I am still trying to figure out why!

---

### Post by GlennW on 2010-03-23
I, too, have been unable to mount my CD or DVD drives. There's no automount or manual either. I've been scouring the forums and have tried most everything I can but to no avail. I've managed to break a couple of things in the process but then if you don't break it, you won't fix it.

I agree that this issue should have been thoroughly tested before 9.10 was released. I don't have the luxury of having an external DVD drive which I have seen others make work.

Does anyone know when Lucid rc is due to be released?

Better yet, does anyone have a fix for the current problem?

---

### Post by noleks on 2010-03-26
Hi:
I removed the 70-persistent-cd.rules file in my Ubuntu /etc/udev/rules.d directory to try this fix and... it worked great!
Problem is, networking broke.  Any thoughts on how my rules.d adventure could have broken, and how I may fix, the eth0 interface?
I noticed the similar 70-persistent-net.rules so I also renamed it and tried a reboot, but it did not help.

Here are the four files in my /etc/udev/rules.d directory:

70-persistent-net.rules.bad (old file)
70-persistent-cd.rules.bad (old file)
70-persustent-cd.rules (autogenerated)
70-persistent-net.rules (autogenerated)

Thanks!

> **ChrisWebb said:**
> Just thought I'd mention I sorted out my issue a little while back - I remembered I had been tinkering with the udev rules and created one based on 60-persistent-storage.rules and saved in /etc/udev/rules.d. Removing (or renaming to 60-persistent-storage.rules.bad) and restarting resolved it and now all drives auto-mount as they should.

As for the spurious python error messages I had been getting, I followed up on a few links about Ubuntu Software Center not working and found something that needed removing (can't remember what - blimey, must get more sleep!)

Hope that helps someone...

---

### Post by orion940 on 2010-03-26
I have been running 9.10 for a while, with no automount problems.  But this problem started for me with an application of maintenance.  

Its not just CD/DVD, it USB drives as well that are not getting automounted.  

Upgraded the following packages:
app-install-data-partner (12.9.10.2) to 12.9.10.3
devicekit-disks (007-2ubuntu4) to 007-2ubuntu5
gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad (0.10.14-4ubuntu1) to 0.10.14-4ubuntu1.1
landscape-common (1.4.0-0ubuntu0.9.10.0) to 1.4.4-0ubuntu0.9.10
libgssapi-krb5-2 (1.7dfsg~beta3-1ubuntu0.4) to 1.7dfsg~beta3-1ubuntu0.5
libk5crypto3 (1.7dfsg~beta3-1ubuntu0.4) to 1.7dfsg~beta3-1ubuntu0.5
libkrb5-3 (1.7dfsg~beta3-1ubuntu0.4) to 1.7dfsg~beta3-1ubuntu0.5
libkrb5support0 (1.7dfsg~beta3-1ubuntu0.4) to 1.7dfsg~beta3-1ubuntu0.5
libsmbclient (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
libwbclient0 (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
samba (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
samba-common (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
samba-common-bin (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
samba-tools (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
smbclient (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
smbfs (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
ttf-symbol-replacement (1.1.40-0ubuntu1) to 1.1.41-0ubuntu1
ttf-tahoma-replacement (1.1.40-0ubuntu1) to 1.1.41-0ubuntu1
virtualbox-3.1 (3.1.4-57640_Ubuntu_karmic) to 3.1.6-59338_Ubuntu_karmic
winbind (2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.5) to 2:3.4.0-3ubuntu5.6
wine1.2 (1.1.40-0ubuntu1) to 1.1.41-0ubuntu1

If someone has a clue which upgrade could have done this, let me know and I'll try taking it off.  If I find anything in the meantime, I'll post back.  It's not devicekit-disk.

O.

---

### Post by noleks on 2010-03-26
So the fix for me was to add the following two lines into /etc/network/interfaces:

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

After a reboot, everything seems to be working fine.

---

### Post by doruktayfun on 2010-03-27
> **noleks said:**
> So the fix for me was to add the following two lines into /etc/network/interfaces:

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

After a reboot, everything seems to be working fine.

Lol stupid this fixed my problem as well. very curious..

---

