---
title: "10.10 php5-cli memory limit"
date: 2010-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by r0ck1t on 2010-11-30
I am hitting the php5-cli memory limit while building models in symfony 1.4. I have searched for a solution but most people with this issue have limits set and need to change them. The default setting is -1 which is no memory limit but I can only use 32M.

I created test.php with the following:

<?php
phpinfo()
?>

 and ran:

php test.php | grep memory_limit

which returned: 

memory_limit => -1 => -1

I then tried setting an actual value and the prevented php from starting due to lack of memory at 256K.

Does anyone know how I can actually increase this limit?

Thanks.

---

### Post by jdaum on 2010-11-30
Hi,

i have never seen -1 as a valid value for memory in php.ini

Go to /etc/php5/cli/php.ini and change memory_limit to 256M, 512M or higher. I have never tried 1G, so not sure if that works.

Don't forget to restart Apache.

HTH, Jochen

---

### Post by r0ck1t on 2010-11-30
While the php docs state that -1 is the value to use for no memory limit, this clearly is not the case.

The reason I had problems when i tried to enter a value, such as 256M, was that in the actual /etc/php5/cli/php.ini file there is this comment:

; Maximum amount of memory a script may consume (128MB)
; [http://php.net/memory-limit](http://php.net/memory-limit)

When I entered a value I typed 256M**B** which is not correct, it should only be 256M. When I had trouble with the value I entered I went to the url provided. Which loads with the example for usage off the top of the page.

I noticed the example usage only after accidentally scrolling up and after correcting my value the issue was resolved.

---

