---
title: "1152x864?"
date: 2005-02-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RiotNrrd on 2005-02-12
I've been running my screen resolution in Windows at 1152x864 for years now.  For my monitor and me, it is the optimal resolution.  1024x768 makes everything too big, and 1280x1024 is the wrong aspect ratio (images thus looking like they are stretched sideways).

However, 1152x864 doesn't seem to be an option in the Screen Configuration utility.  My monitor supports it.  I miss it.

Is there any way I can configure Ubuntu to display my favorite screen resolution?  I suppose I can get used to icons as big as quarters, but I don't want to!   :-?

Oh, and I am a total newbie to Linux, so if the instructions are complex pleeeeease bear that in mind!   :-)

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-02-14
You can enable your resolution when running
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86
```this gives you the VESA setting, 85Hz.

If 1152x864 isn't the max. resolution you want to have (you can circle between them with STRG+ALT+'+' and STRG+ALT+'-' on the numblock) you have to edit your XCONFIG:
```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/XF86Config-4
```then search for Section "Screen"/Subsection(s) "Display" and order the 'Modes' for each color-depth the way you want. 
The first mode on each line is the one X11 starts in.

For a higher refresh-rate you'd have to create your own modeline, but that's advanced magic ;-)

---

### Post by RiotNrrd on 2005-02-14
Hmmm... I did exactly as you suggested.  Went through the configuration routine, and set up 1152x864 as a choice (it was, indeed, not selected).  Then went into XF86Config-4 and made 1152x864 the first item to appear on the Display lines.  Then rebooted the computer, just in case the graphics system needed restarting.

Didn't make a bit of difference.  The computer booted to 1280x1024, and in the Screen Configuration utility under "Computer > System Configuration > Screen Resolution", 1152x864 still doesn't appear as a choice.

Did I miss something?

---

### Post by Juergen on 2005-02-15
Hmm, I started using gnome with Ubuntu, so I'm no 'specialist' here :-/

For me all entries in XFConfig are displayed in the gnome-display-properties.

Can you switch with STRG+ALT+'+' and '-' to 1152x864? 
If yes, you could try to log-off and check 'save settings'.

And maybe look at the log (/var/log/XFree86.0.log or so). Do
```
grep -i mode /var/log/XFree86.0.log
```and look, if your new mode is used. If not look at your config again.

---

