---
title: "7.10 Upgrade - gEdit lost syntax highlighting options?"
date: 2007-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2007-10-23
In Feisty, you could go into gedit, open the preferences, click the syntax highlighting tab, and change your syntax highlight. In Gutsy, since i didn't save my syntax coloring (I couldnt find the file), its back to stock colors, but there's not tab like tehre used to be in the Feisty.

I've read that Gutsy has gtksourceview2-0, which is great, but i cant get my syntax coloring customized..  It's the default ugly red's and greens. Chirstmas colors and it's not even halloween!!

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2007-10-23
Ok, so after googling for a long time, finally found the directory, /usr/share/gtksourceview-2.0/

Does anyone know where to find documentation on the layout of how to create a customized theme per each type of extension? Ie PHP, Python, Ruby, CSS independent styles?

---

### Post by jhawk on 2007-10-26
Syntax Highlighting Preferences is not even in the glade preferences any more and act of omission or design?

However, help still points to Syntax Highlighting Preferences.

Lacking the Syntax Tab seems to indicate a serious problem.

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2007-10-28
Agreed. I ended up creating my own style, which wasn't so badm but it's more work and took a lot longer to do than the old version of gEdit. I really miss the whole color chooser that set the syntax coloring up so swiftly. That's the way it should be, why did it ever change?

---

### Post by jhawk on 2007-10-28
It is under construction and will return soon as I understand.
However, I hope the expedite the return.

---

### Post by mario.kostelac on 2007-10-28
I had the same problem, but downloaded ruby theme (I think that's the name) from gnome site and it was great for PHP editing...

---

### Post by dsvick on 2007-12-19
Does anyone know if this has been resolved and if so what I need to do or get to fix it?

thanks

Dave

---

### Post by kingkilr on 2008-01-04
Does anyone know the status of the fix?  I have just begun using gEdit and the ability to change the styles would be great(so would the ability to import a textmate style, but that is so outside the scope of this).

---

### Post by dsvick on 2008-01-07
I never found an answer on the resolution of this, I looked everywhere I could think an ended up switching to Kate, it gives you a lot more control over the highlight colors and such. If you find anything on this though please post it, I liked the way GEdit looked a little better.

---

### Post by ericmatthews on 2008-01-30
This problem is the reason I joined here. I also miss the old gedit syntax highlight tab. Has anyone yet found a fix for this?

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2008-02-08
Nope. I ended up downgrading back to the older version of gEdit so i could get the syntax highlighting functionality back. Such a shame. Supposidly, they fixed it in the new version of gnome, but that wont be pushed until hardy =/

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2008-04-02
I looked all over Gnome's site for 2.22 but i dont see this added back in, in the new version. =/

---

### Post by dsvick on 2008-04-25
Well I just upgraded to Hardy and the Syntax tab is still missing in action in GEdit. At this point I think I'll just get comfortable with something else and forget GEdit - unless anyone knows something about the tab coming back?

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2008-05-08
there is a possibility of downgrading the package to an earlier gedit, 2.18, you would also have to downgrade gedit-plugins to 2.18. ill see if i can update a package, and merge to one deb, and attach it.

---

### Post by #Reistlehr- on 2008-05-23
From a command line, execute the following commands:
```
wget http://downloads.angrystatic.com/Linux/Gnome/gedit-2.18.2.tar.bz2
```
```
tar xvf gedit-2.18.2.tar.bz2
```
```
cd gedit*
```
```
sudo apt-get install libgnomeui-dev libgnomeprintui2.2-dev libgnome-vfsmm-2.6-dev libgtksourceview-dev
```
```
./configure --prefix=$(pkg-config --variable=prefix ORBit-2.0)             --sysconfdir=/etc/gnome/2.18.3 --localstatedir=/var/lib --disable-spell && make && sudo make install
```

Notice: This will replace the current binaries for 2.2x gedit with 2.18. There may be security vulneralbilities present.

---

