---
title: "9.10 hangs on boot"
date: 2010-02-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by WatTwo on 2010-02-22
I installed 9.10 on my desktop a few days ago.

Now whenever I boot up to ubuntu, the white logo with the black background will show.

Then it turns to an all black screen with a blinking line on the top left corner, it will sit there for about 2-3 minutes, then starts up.

I would be more detailed. but.. that's all that's happening.

Not a huge problem but taking almost 5 minutes from bios to desktop is just not right.

Any ideas?

Full install btw.

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-02-22
It sounds a bit slow, but I think it is doing what it is supposed to be doing.  If you press "e" when the boot menu is showing you the kernel to be booted, and then you delete "quiet" from the boot options, and then Enter and press "b" to boot, you might get a view of the action that is happening.  If there are a string of warnings or error messages, that would explain the delay.

The edits on the boot menu are not permanent -- they only affect this immediate boot.

---

### Post by WatTwo on 2010-02-22
well actually it's different now, 

I get to the command line login fast, i login.. it says my last login etc.

Then sits... and sits..

Then errors start, all saying something about usb, doesn't stay long enough for me to remember :/

Also, i used to have 9.10 with a wubi install and the command line login never came up... anyway to just pass it?

---

### Post by WatTwo on 2010-02-22
Last time i restarted i didnt even bother logging into the cmd right away, left the room

Came back and it starting booting again.

I cannot find anything about this anywhere

(it didnt do this on my laptop which was half the speed of my desktop)

---

### Post by dabl on 2010-02-23
> **WatTwo said:**
> 

Then errors start, all saying something about usb

Those errors should be captured in a log file at /var/log/syslog.  Also dmesg might show what is happening. Sounds like there is some issue with your hardware -- maybe "lsusb" will show something interesting.

---

### Post by james.mccann1b on 2010-03-04
I'm having what looks like the same problem, tried non-quiet splash and failed. It was working without flaws until last week when this happened. 

my kernel version is 2.6.31-19-generic.
I'm dual booting with win7 on an HP pavilion dv6
 
comes up with ubuntu logo then flashing cursor.

will not boot properly into recovery either. comes up with 

[linux-bzImage, setup0x3400, size 0x3b2a40]
[Initrd, addr=0x378a4000, size=0x74b29a]

which from what intuition tells me is just the first splash screen loader. Might be wrong as i'm a bit of a newbie.

I'd really appreciate a fix for this because for the moment i'm reduced to using "that other OS".

Thanks if u can get a fix for this. if you want any more info. don't hesitate to reply.

thank you

---

