---
title: "11.10 Can not turn on on-board bluetooth"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheCheeze on 2011-10-16
I am using an MSI FX Series notebook and after upgrading to 11.10 with a clean format/install of the "/" mount point, my bluetooth adaptor no longer works. I don't know if this is a software problem or something as simple as the key binding being broken. The notebook uses fn+f9 to turn it on, but nothing happens including no hardware indicator light. This was working perfect in 11.04. Has anyone else experienced this and/or found a solution?

---

### Post by khurtsiya on 2011-10-17
fresh install
cannot send files from Nokia

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-17
what is output of;
```
BLUETEST=$(ps -ef | grep blue); if [ -z "$BLUETEST" ]; then sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth start; fi
```

---

### Post by khurtsiya on 2011-10-17
[PHP]user@misha-laptop:~$ BLUETEST=$(ps -ef | grep blue); if [ -z "$BLUETEST" ]; then sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth start; fi
user@misha-laptop:~$[/PHP]
blank

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-17
sorry missed out grep -v grep (you may have had a proc result of grep)...
try;
```
BLUETEST=$(ps -ef | grep -v grep | grep blue); if [ -z "$BLUETEST" ]; then sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth start; fi
```

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-17
if it's blank it means the bluetooth applet is already running, if you get output it'll either be starting the the bluetooth or telling you its not installed...

---

### Post by khurtsiya on 2011-10-17
```
BLUETEST=$(ps -ef | grep -v grep | grep blue); if [ -z "$BLUETEST" ]; then sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth start; fi
```
also blank
bluetooth is running, but notebook is not receiving files
Nokia message: Sending faild

---

### Post by TheCheeze on 2011-10-17
Mine also shows up blank. if I launch any bluetooth managers, they do not list my internal adapter.

---

### Post by francos3 on 2011-10-18
Hi,
I have acer aspire 8943G laptop.  After upgrading to ubuntu 11.10 bluetooth was fine.  But after suspending for the first time, bluetooth stopped working.  When I tried to click on the gnome-bluetooth applet only "preferences" was available.  When going into preferences it showed bluetooth disabled.  After trying to boot it with "sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth start" it actually worked ;-).  

Thanks, but just one question: How can I make sure that bluetooth is started at boot up and also after suspensio/hybernation?  I imagine I need to add this line to some file/s but to which?

Thanks again!

---

### Post by francos3 on 2011-10-18
Also I got blank when running the whole script but any way when I tried to activate it by just running "sudo /etc/init.d/bluetooth start".  So I recommend to try this even if you get a blank response when using the bluez checkup script.
Cheers

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-18
hmmm so bluetooth-wizard does not pick up your device... 

if you had 11.04 (maybee install a 5gb partition?)
on old;
lsmod > lsmod.log
on new;
lsmod > lsmod_new.log

diff lsmod.log lsmod_new.log

would show any changes... not that practical though... hmmm i'd reccomend downloading and compiling the driver from the manufacturer n probe it...

[unless someone has a better idea...]

---

### Post by TheCheeze on 2011-10-18
Francos, the above line shows bluetooth starting but it does not actually turn on the hardware in any discernable fasion. I found an article yesterday about mapping FN keys, so I am going to try seeing if i can manually re-map that to the specified key for the hardware to trigger. Here's hoping!

---

### Post by TheCheeze on 2011-10-18
Mikejonesy- In theory that should work with a LiveUSB as  well, right?

---

### Post by bluepicaso on 2011-10-26
I am on my new Dell inspiron n5110.
and i have tried different posts. My blue tooth does not work.
though the applet is always on while i log into system but when i click to preferences. it says "bluetooth is disabled".

Please help me

thank you

---

### Post by Tom92024 on 2011-11-06
I'm having the same problem. I'm running 11.10 on an HP a6200n with an internal Bluetooth radio that worked fine with the (original) Windows on the machine, and also worked perfectly with Ubuntu 10.04.

But after scrubbing the box, and doing a clean install of 11.10, it's like the radio "vanished?"

Bluetooth simply says, "No Bluetooth adapters found."

I've tried all the tricks listed here (and elsewhere) to no avail.

Would appreciate some help.

---

