---
title: "11.04 Update gone wrong"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jacqueshappy on 2011-05-03
Hi there
So I was prompted to install the 11.04 update from my 10.10 version.
I did it and left it for a couple of hours to do it's thing. When I came back, I restarted the computer and loaded ubuntu (I dual boot vista and ubuntu).
All I got was the purple background, a grey box in the middle with Ubuntu written in it, a black bar at the bottom with nothing on it and I couldn't move my mouse or do anything. 
I waited about 5 minutes for it to do something but I still couldn't do anything. Just had to turn it off and come here for help via vista.
What the hell should I do?
Something to do with BIOS maybe?
CHeers
Jack

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-05-03
I always strongly encourage fresh installs from one version to another. This can be made very painless by having a separate /home partition. If you can, I would do a fresh install after backing up your data.

You can see if you can get into a tty console by hitting [CTRL][ALT][F1], if you can try using these two commands first and let us know if either work or what any error messages are

```
startx
sudo service gdm restart
```

---

### Post by jacqueshappy on 2011-05-03
Thanks for reply.
Yeah I can't do that. Literally cannot do anything. Can you tell me how to back up my ubuntu stuff and how to delete and fresh install it?
Sorry but I'm a new ubuntu user and not all that computer literate.
thanks in advance

---

### Post by Anonymous is Incognito on 2011-05-03
> **jacqueshappy said:**
> Thanks for reply.
Can you tell me how to back up my ubuntu stuff and how to delete and fresh install it?


Provided that there is nothing wrong with your filesystem / HDD, you can boot from the Live CD and copy your data to another drive.

Best of luck.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2011-05-03
well now to back up your /home data
simply
 boot the live cd installer which you will have to make in windows
then
go to gparted and you create a new ubuntu partition by carving up the old ubuntu partition. So shrink the old to create one new.
then copy your old /home data to the new partition.
delete the shrunken old ubuntu partition.
then install ubuntu on the empty unpartitioned space. 

You can do this IF you have enough free space to copy home over to the new partition.

it can get complex. you dont have to follow all these directions, IF all you wish to preserve is some data
gparted will run for a while
rsync will run for 2 hours on 150 gb
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Partitioning/Home/Moving)
Copy /home to the New Partition

Next we will copy all files, directories and sub-directories from your current /home folder into the new partition:

sudo rsync -axS --exclude='/*/.gvfs' /home/. /media/home/.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2011-05-03
I actually did this when my upgrade foobared itself
you can do all this from the livecd.

run gparted from Ubuntu live cd and carve out a new partition by shrinking old one.

Take new free space and make a new partition which you will be copying your home data.

format new partition to ext4

mount partitions in terminal. The sda5 and sda6 were my particular setup. You will see the correct sda# for you to use in the gparted window

sudo mkdir /old
sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sda5 /old
sudo mkdir /new
sudo mount -t ext4 /dev/sda6 /new

create a folder in new called home
sudo mkdir home

rsync the old home to the new home
ubuntu@ubuntu:/new/home$ sudo rsync -axS --exclude='/*/.gvfs' /old/home/. /new/home/.

once it is done, then just install ubuntu in the unallocated space you created earlier.

---

### Post by jacqueshappy on 2011-05-03
Thanks for the help. Really appreciate it
but there's a problem. I don't have a clue what you're telling me to do.
I'm really really a beginner. Could you tell me exactly what to do step by step? I don't know what gparted is or how to do livecd or anything. 
Thanks again

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-05-03
Go to Ubuntu's website, download the any version of Ubuntu then burn that image to a cd. Once you do that, place it in your computer and boot off the CD. You may need to change your boot order in BIOS, or press [F12] to get a boot menu to select the cd.

Once you are booted into Ubuntu (i.e. the "Try Ubuntu" option), you can fire up GParted (System -> Administration -> Gparted), resize your existing partition, and create a new partition in the newly created empty space. Then copy data from the resized partition to the newly formatted partition.

If you need to mount the volumes you can follow the previous posters command line mount commands, or in the Disk Utility, click the partition you want to mount and then hit "mount volume" (or access it from the "Places" menu).

Once your data is safe, reboot, remove the cd, and reinstall onto the resized partition (leaving the one you copied your data to intact and untouched).

---

### Post by jacqueshappy on 2011-05-03
How do i burn it to a cd?
Can I use  USB stick?

---

### Post by jacqueshappy on 2011-05-03
Oh dear.
I think i might have made matters worse.
In trying to follow instructions you guys have given me, I manually downloaded an iso of 11.04 from ubbuntu website and downloaded a mounting programme called virtualclonedrive. Then I opened the iso and it gave me some option to run it with wubi. It looked promising as an ubuntu window came up and gave me the option to demo it from the CD. (I think this 'CD' was a virtual drive I made by accident). It said to reboot with the CD and then run ubuntu from it so I restarted and loaded windows and went into my computer and when I tried to click on the E drive, it just gave an error message.
I AM SO LOST!!! IN DIRE NEED OF HELP!!!
pleeeasee somebody help me

---

### Post by ulrichvonbeck on 2011-05-03
This situation applies to me also.  Not sure what happened, but the install wasn't progressing and the number lock and caps lock light were flashing like something had gone wrong in some of the drivers.

Anyway, in terms of recovery...

I've booted from the live CD, and my data appears to be intact, is repartitioning the HD the best option for recovering from an update that locked up halfway through?

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2011-05-04
[http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome](http://psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome)

take a look here. 
The best way to run is to keep your /home folder separate from your OS.
This way if your OS goes south, you cam easily reinstall the OS and not worry about losing any of your personal data and settings which are all stored in /home/yourusername

---

### Post by jacqueshappy on 2011-05-06
I burnt an image of ubuntu 10.10 on to a disc and booted that and it told me it had found the other version of ubuntu and needed to uninstall that in order to install this one. I'm downloading it now however no mention of giving me the option to try it first like the ubuntu website and loads of people on these forums say it will. Just went straight into installation.
Also, a little worried that it won't keep all my files and programmes as it asked me for a new username and password and how much space I wanted to partition. Oh well... 
Problem sort of solved I suppose...

---

### Post by ryannathans on 2011-05-06
Basically if you don't know how to burn a CD I really wouldn't recommend that you use linux.

---

