---
title: ".avi is not recognized"
date: 2010-02-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lamar328 on 2010-02-05
Hey!
I tried playing a .avi file using VLC player and Movie Player, but neither will read the file. There is no image or sound.
Any solution?

I will post the error message shortly.

Thanks
-GAin

---

### Post by jken146 on 2010-02-05
Please type (in a terminal) ```
$ file whatever.avi
``` and post the output.

---

### Post by mrkazoodle on 2010-02-05
The avi format is one of the restricted formats which also include mp3, mpeg,... and aren't installed by default. Have you installed the 'Ubuntu restricted extras'?
You can check this in the ubuntu software center.

---

### Post by lamar328 on 2010-02-07
> **jken146 said:**
> Please type (in a terminal) ```
$ file whatever.avi
``` and post the output.


hey, well the error message that appears when I try to play .avi movie is:

Could not determine type of stream.



I tried the code which you provided and here's what I have:

```
gavin@gavin-laptop:~$ file whatever.avi
whatever.avi: ERROR: cannot open `whatever.avi' (No such file or directory)
```

---

### Post by mac666 on 2010-02-07
haha...

He proberly wants you to typ "whatever" as the filename that you are trying to play....
eg:

whatever.avi could be - Funnymoviesofmychildren.avi

---

### Post by mcduck on 2010-02-07
> **mrkazoodle said:**
> The avi format is one of the restricted formats which also include mp3, mpeg,... and aren't installed by default. Have you installed the 'Ubuntu restricted extras'?
You can check this in the ubuntu software center.

Actually the problem is that .avi is not a format at all. ;)

AVI is just a container file, and can contain video and audio tracks with practically any encoding. So it's not hte .avi you are having problems with, it's the video/audio formats used in that particular avi file. Find out what format the video is compressed in, and get the suitable codec from repositories (or Medibuntu).

Still, if VLC wan't even able to recognize the streams there's a high probability that the file you ave is corrupted. VLC has it's own codecs included for almost all common (and less common) video & audio formats.

---

### Post by lamar328 on 2010-02-07
> **jken146 said:**
> Please type (in a terminal) ```
$ file whatever.avi
``` and post the output.


I figured I was being a dipshit somehow, haha so here's the actual output for one of the files I tried to run:

```
gavin@gavin-laptop:~$ Family_Guy_7x13_-_Stew-Roids.avi
Family_Guy_7x13_-_Stew-Roids.avi: command not found

```


now I still think I did something incorrect there, but jsut to help the forum here, I was able to play this file about a month ago, so I'm not sure what may have happened between then and now to not allow it to play.

I am using Ubuntu version 9.10 - Karmic Kuala

---

### Post by Dayofswords on 2010-02-07
```
gavin@gavin-laptop:~$ **file** Family_Guy_7x13_-_Stew-Roids.avi

```
thats what your looking for, you just forgot 'file'

---

### Post by lamar328 on 2010-02-07
> **Dayofswords said:**
> ```
gavin@gavin-laptop:~$ **file** Family_Guy_7x13_-_Stew-Roids.avi

```thats what your looking for, you just forgot 'file'


Still didn't recognize.

```
gavin@gavin-laptop:~$ file Family_Guy_7x13_-_Stew-Roids.avi
Family_Guy_7x13_-_Stew-Roids.avi: ERROR: cannot open `Family_Guy_7x13_-_Stew-Roids.avi' (No such file or directory)

```


Was there any recent codec change within VLC or any other program which may be affecting the .avi files?
SOme of my .avi files play, others don't, and the ones that don't did in the past.

---

