---
title: "11.10 resume from suspend"
date: 2012-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by posfan12 on 2012-12-16
I just did a fresh install of 11.10 and am now unable to resume from suspend. The computer and monitor *do* power up (I can hear the fans and the front of the case lights up), but there are no menus, dialogs or any other response from the computer. There is also no hard drive activity as far as I can tell.

Does anyone know a solution to this problem?

What type of diagnostic reports do I need to post?

Compaq Presario SR1215CL
AMD Sempron 3000+
GeForce 4 TI
1.5GB RAM
20GB hard disk

---

### Post by TOMBSTONEV2 on 2012-12-17
Does this only occur when resuming from suspend? sometimes this is an indication that your graphics card is on its way out.

---

### Post by posfan12 on 2012-12-17
I'm pretty sure it only happens when resuming from suspend, although I had a similar (actually worse, since rebooting didn't help) experience when resuming from hibernate as well.

---

### Post by TOMBSTONEV2 on 2012-12-18
I bet you had to remove any power source for it to work after the hibernate issue.
I had this problem on an old DELL Dimension 1100, it happened in windows xp and on ubuntu. It turned out that my Nvidia Geforce fx5500 was dying. So you may want to stress test your card to see if its reliable.

nvclock
nvclock-qt
nvclock-gtk

E.g. sudo apt-get install nvclock-gtk

One more note, I believe that the drivers for your card are restricted, do you have them installed?
System Settings > Additional Drivers

Just found this on the subject "http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1864988" deserthowler's suggestion may be worth trying.

---

