---
title: "10.04 Dual Monitor Support Issues"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BavarianBuilt on 2010-05-17
I am amazed at how well Ubuntu supports my dual monitors.  When I booted Ubuntu for the first time, the second monitor was a mirror of the first.  I then configured it to be a second desktop.  My issue is that when I reboot my machine, upon rebooting the second monitor defaults to "disabled".  So every time I boot into Ubuntu, I have to enable the second monitor and configure it to my likings.  Am I missing something?  I am using the Nvidia X Server settings to configure the monitors and don't see any options to clear or maintain settings after reboots.

---

### Post by rocker2344 on 2010-05-17
sometimes nvidia xserver will not properly save the xconf. you will have to do that your self.

1) open nvidia x server settings
2)turn on your second monitor
3)try and save(if it saves with no warnings you are done)
4)as you try and save you should be prompted where you want to save the xconf
5) click show preview
6)copy all
7) hit alt +f2 run gksudo nautilus (this will give you gui root access to the filesystem and open all programs as root)
8 )go to /etc/X11
9)open xorg.conf
10)remove everything in there and replace it with the text you copied on step 6
11)save
12 reboot to check


now my issue is it works for me when the x server settings wont let me save

but when i go to change my background ubuntu sees it as one monitor and wont stretch the wallpaper across (yes i am useing twinview) but makes each monitor their own walpaper (like if was a seperate x server)

---

### Post by BavarianBuilt on 2010-05-17
Thanks for the reply.  I was actually coming back to post that my problem was that I did not have my settings saving in the conf file.  Everything is saved now and my settings are restored upon rebooting.

---

### Post by rocker2344 on 2010-05-18
had a feeling... reason i covered both if it saved right or not.

---

