---
title: "Nvidia 8600GT issue"
date: 2012-01-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-22
Hey guys, having an issue getting my display up and going properly. The max resolution I can get is 1024x768. This is after obtaining the latest drivers, I have included the conf file below:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 290.10  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07.nvidia.com)  Wed Nov 16 18:47:40 PST 2011


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-22
Anyone able to help, I'm a noob at this stuff

---

### Post by estamand on 2012-01-22
Have you tried simply running nvidia-xconfig as root again?

I'm sorry i can't offer much more help.

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-26
Tried that it then went back to 640x480, anyone else got suggestions this is frustrating

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-27
bump

---

### Post by Maximus559 on 2012-01-28
You might try your luck with the open-source nouveau drivers. They fixed a problem I was having with my old Geforce4. In order to make the switch, all you have to do is remove the proprietary drivers you're currently using and the system should fall back to the nouveau drivers automatically.

I've heard the nouveau drivers have trouble with 3D acceleration, though, so depending on what you're planning on doing with your system, this might not be a viable solution.

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-28
> **Maximus559 said:**
> You might try your luck with the open-source nouveau drivers. They fixed a problem I was having with my old Geforce4. In order to make the switch, all you have to do is remove the proprietary drivers you're currently using and the system should fall back to the nouveau drivers automatically.

I've heard the nouveau drivers have trouble with 3D acceleration, though, so depending on what you're planning on doing with your system, this might not be a viable solution.

Thanks for the reply how do I remove the nvidia drivers? I will be using the system as a PS3 media server as well as watching movies on this box as it is connected to a 32" LCD TV

---

### Post by Maximus559 on 2012-01-28
The proprietary drivers can be removed via the Additional Drivers menu. If this doesn't work (it didn't in my case), you can use either the Software Center or Synaptic to remove the package associated with your drivers - it'll have "nvidia" in the name and should be fairly easy to find.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-01-28
> **just_cruising said:**
> Thanks for the reply how do I remove the nvidia drivers? I will be using the system as a PS3 media server as well as watching movies on this box as it is connected to a 32" LCD TV

I used to have an Nvidia 8600GT and it never failed to detect the correct resolution.

Try simply removing the xorg.conf file, which will cause X to detect the settings rather than blindly follow what's in the Xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-28
Thanks, I have removed the nvidia drivers and now have it running at 1024x768, can the generic drivers support higher resolutions and if so how?

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-01-28
> **3rdalbum said:**
> I used to have an Nvidia 8600GT and it never failed to detect the correct resolution.

Try simply removing the xorg.conf file, which will cause X to detect the settings rather than blindly follow what's in the Xorg.conf file.

+1.
I have an 8600gt with the nvidia driver  running at full res with no xorg.conf.

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-28
> **philinux said:**
> +1.
I have an 8600gt with the nvidia driver  running at full res with no xorg.conf.

How did you do it, what version are you running if you don't mind me asking.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-01-28
into a terminal, run:

sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf

close all the opened apps , then

sudo reboot

---

### Post by pbrane on 2012-01-28
You didn't mention how you obtained the latest nVidia drivers so I'll throw this in. I use the x-swat ppa to install the drivers (290.10) and I have no problems. Also you should make sure you don't have /etc/X11/xorg.conf as **[COLOR="Red"]philinux[/COLOR]** pointed out.

Using the ppa will ensure you get updates when they are available as well as a good initial install.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-01-28
> **just_cruising said:**
> How did you do it, what version are you running if you don't mind me asking.

11.10 and 12.04 vanilla install with the default repo driver nvidia-current. I've never had one problem since I bought the pc in 2008. So that's 8.04 till now.

---

### Post by Maximus559 on 2012-01-28
> **just_cruising said:**
> Thanks, I have removed the nvidia drivers and now have it running at 1024x768, can the generic drivers support higher resolutions and if so how?

You should have a Monitors menu under System -> Preferences that will allow you to change resolutions and refresh rates.

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-28
> **Maximus559 said:**
> You should have a Monitors menu under System -> Preferences that will allow you to change resolutions and refresh rates.

Yeah, I checked that it lists 1024x768 as the highest.

To the other replied I did remove the xconf.org file and performed a restart which got me back to the generic drivers. Although I'm still unable to get any higher resolutions, I am also running 11.04

---

### Post by Maximus559 on 2012-01-29
> **just_cruising said:**
> Yeah, I checked that it lists 1024x768 as the highest.

To the other replied I did remove the xconf.org file and performed a restart which got me back to the generic drivers. Although I'm still unable to get any higher resolutions, I am also running 11.04

Out of curiosity, what is your monitor's native resolution? Are you able to get it working properly with other Linux distributions?

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-29
> **Maximus559 said:**
> Out of curiosity, what is your monitor's native resolution? Are you able to get it working properly with other Linux distributions?

Link to TV [http://www.lg.com/au/tv-audio-video/televisions/LG-lcd-tv-32LH50YD.jsp](http://www.lg.com/au/tv-audio-video/televisions/LG-lcd-tv-32LH50YD.jsp)

Haven't tried with another linux distro but did have it on Windows Home Server 2011 running at over 1680x1050

---

### Post by Maximus559 on 2012-01-29
Ah, so it's technically not a monitor at all... interesting. Have you tried hooking up a different monitor to see if you can get beyond 1024x768?

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-30
> **Maximus559 said:**
> Ah, so it's technically not a monitor at all... interesting. Have you tried hooking up a different monitor to see if you can get beyond 1024x768?

Been at work so late reply, yes I connected to another monitor and it still only display 1024x768. This has got me stumped as to what is going on.

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-01-30
Ok, so I reinstalled the drivers while having conected to another monitor. All went ok, logged in to Ubuntu and its running 1680x1050, I think excellent. Swapped to the TV it didn't pickup the display so did a restart and it is back to 640x480.

There has to be some way to be able to force the nvidia drivers to detect the higher resolutions on the TV?

---

### Post by Maximus559 on 2012-01-30
How are you connecting the TV to your computer? It looks like the TV can take either VGA or HDMI... not sure if your card has two DVI ports or one DVI and one HDMI. If you have a choice, try the other connector and see if you can get up to 1680x1050.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-01-30
> **just_cruising said:**
> Ok, so I reinstalled the drivers while having conected to another monitor. All went ok, logged in to Ubuntu and its running 1680x1050, I think excellent. Swapped to the TV it didn't pickup the display so did a restart and it is back to 640x480.

There has to be some way to be able to force the nvidia drivers to detect the higher resolutions on the TV?

Are you using a switch or direct connection.

---

### Post by justcruising on 2012-01-30
video card has no hdmi. tv has no dvi, tried a dvi connector on end of VGA cable into video card and no difference. would a different video card make any difference

---

### Post by Maximus559 on 2012-01-31
It may. Hard to say, as this problem seems to have more to do with the TV than with the video card. If I were you, I'd try booting Ubuntu on a laptop with an HDMI output and test that system for compatibility with the TV. If you are able to get the TV working using the HDMI port on a different system, then a graphics card upgrade might not be a bad idea.

---

### Post by just_cruising on 2012-02-01
> **Maximus559 said:**
> It may. Hard to say, as this problem seems to have more to do with the TV than with the video card. If I were you, I'd try booting Ubuntu on a laptop with an HDMI output and test that system for compatibility with the TV. If you are able to get the TV working using the HDMI port on a different system, then a graphics card upgrade might not be a bad idea.

99% its a linux issue, i just installed windows server on he same system with the generic drivers it is doing 1600x1200 via VGA _**before**_ i dowload the nvidia ones.

Should I download an older version of Ubuntu like 10, where people didn't have these issues or should i try another distribution, if so what do you recommend

---

