---
title: "64 or 32 bit"
date: 2014-12-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by trav9595 on 2014-12-09
I have 32 now but need to download a fresh Ubuntu and was thinking of getting 64. I am using an old Toshiba now but in the next few months I will be upgrading. Will 64 bit work on my old Toshiba for a few months anyway???

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-12-09
trav9595; Hello ;

Depends; If you do not have 4 Gigs or more of ram, 32 bit will perform slightly better (addressing). Also there are still a few 32 bit only aps around that will install with less hassle  and better maintainability.

[INDENT][INDENT]good and bad
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]pros and cons
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-12-09
If just for a few months it probably is not worth upgrading to 64 bit. You have to do a total new install.
That would mean fully backing up all your data, any custom hardware configurations you may have done that are in /etc, and a list of installed apps. Of course all that should be part of your normal backup, so when system crashes you can easily restore it.

You need at least 2GB of RAM and for full Ubuntu with Unity a decent video chip. 

I do run 64 bit on my old Toshiba bought a week before Vista came out. It only has 1.5GB of RAM and the old Intel video chip does not run Unity. I install fall-back or gnome-panel and that does work well as long as I do not load too much (one larger app like Firefox and smaller app or two) or else it goes to swap and gets real slow. Most with specs I have would run Lubuntu or Xubuntu.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-12-09
> **trav9595 said:**
> ...but in the next few months I will be upgrading.

Upgrading the hardware?

---

### Post by trav9595 on 2014-12-10
it seems to work in 64.......I did a re install.. I just checked and I have only 1 gig ram... but I have a 128 SSD for HD....???
 but I really need to know if a Lenovo yoga 2-11 with an i3 chip  will do a dual boot with Windows and Ubuntu??? It has 300gig HD and a SSD
in front also...maybe 8-40 gb...I heard something about wifi not working but that was a while ago...anyone know about this???

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-12-10
Some users have posted on Yoga

 Lenovo Yoga 11s (Intel i5/Intel HD 4000)
Needed this: acpi_backlight=vendor 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2188199](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2188199)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1911972](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1911972)&
Yoga2
[http://bregmatter.wordpress.com/2014/01/16/the-future-looks-very-small/](http://bregmatter.wordpress.com/2014/01/16/the-future-looks-very-small/)

---

