---
title: "11.04 ubuntu classic session OGL windows lag, and gnome3 question."
date: 2011-05-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by serengeor on 2011-05-15
1)
11.04 ubuntu classic session OGL windows lag.
Is there any fix for this issue already?


I found out that this only happens in normal ubuntu classic session with effects, the one without effects works perfectly.

I tried turning off sync to v-blank and also increasing desktop refresh rate to my monitors rate, but it didn't help at all.

2)
I compiled gnome3 from _**git**_ successfully on 11.04, tried it and it works good, though I don't like to launch it with "gnome-shell --replace". That also includes the autostart method.

I'd like to be able to select it on login screen like I can select ubuntu classic instead of unity. Is that possible?
Method on [gnome page]("http://live.gnome.org/GnomeShell#Setting_up_gnome-shell_to_run_on_login") didn't work for me.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-05-15
[https://launchpad.net/~jbicha/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~jbicha/+archive/ppa)

please read the doc from that ppa before installation

---

### Post by serengeor on 2011-05-15
I know that, but gnome3 still works better than unity and it is far more usable. also I did not install it from ppa, I got it from git and compiled it myself.

Also I'd appreciate more if someone could answer the first question as gnome3 can wait, I can't do any program testing that I'm working on under normal Ubuntu classic.
The fps on my app is around 3000fps (displayed on title bar for testing purposes), though when I move around in it it updates like 1 time in 5 seconds if I'm lucky.. :confused:
It works ok in the session with no effects.

---

