---
title: "17.10 doesn't charge/recognize iPhone when plugged in"
date: 2017-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rahidz on 2017-11-05
Ever since I upgraded to 17.10, my iPhone 6s+ (iOS 11) no longer automatically charges when it's plugged into the computer, nor does it open the "Documents on iPhone".

I did some Googling and found the terminal command 

> sudo usbmuxd -u -U usbmux


which I guess restarts the process in charge of recognizing USB devices, and it works, but it is somewhat tedious to do this every time I plug my device in.

---

### Post by antoine-nematis on 2017-11-09
+1

---

### Post by jairamc on 2017-12-18
This workaround solved the problem for me. +1

> [FONT=courier new]sudo usbmuxd -u -U usbmux[/FONT]

For the time being, I have aliased it. 

> alias reset_usb='sudo usbmuxd -u -U usbmux'

---

### Post by mukund_dharwadkar on 2018-02-03
Thanks. It works

-mvdharwadkar

---

### Post by ris2t on 2018-02-04
Anyone had any luck with a full fix.

I noticed that on first reboot the iphone will charge, basically the 39-usbmuxd.rules udev rule will fire and start usbmuxd via systemd. But when disconnected and reconnected subsequent connections don't restart usbmuxd.

For now i've worked around it by stopping usbmuxd from being shutdown when a device is disconnected.

/lib/udev/rules.d
```

# Exit usbmuxd when the last device is removed
#ACTION=="remove", SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ENV{PRODUCT}=="5ac/12[9a][0-9a-f]/*", ENV{INTERFACE}=="255/*", RUN+="/usr/sbin/usbmuxd -x"
~                           

```

---

### Post by mikeygstl on 2018-06-20
> **ris2t said:**
> Anyone had any luck with a full fix.

I noticed that on first reboot the iphone will charge, basically the 39-usbmuxd.rules udev rule will fire and start usbmuxd via systemd. But when disconnected and reconnected subsequent connections don't restart usbmuxd.

For now i've worked around it by stopping usbmuxd from being shutdown when a device is disconnected.

/lib/udev/rules.d
```

# Exit usbmuxd when the last device is removed
#ACTION=="remove", SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ENV{PRODUCT}=="5ac/12[9a][0-9a-f]/*", ENV{INTERFACE}=="255/*", RUN+="/usr/sbin/usbmuxd -x"
~                           

```

FYI - still a problem in 18.04, but this workaround still works.  I wonder if there is any caveat to just leaving usbmuxd up and running

---

### Post by clayg on 2018-06-26
Rather not "do not stop when disconnected" - I had good luck with "explicitly start when connected" and it seems a little more inline with the intent of the existing rule?

```
$ cat /lib/udev/rules.d/39-usbmuxd.rules
# usbmuxd (Apple Mobile Device Muxer listening on /var/run/usbmuxd)

# Initialize iOS devices into "deactivated" USB configuration state and activate usbmuxd
ACTION=="add", SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ATTR{idVendor}=="05ac", ATTR{idProduct}=="12[9a][0-9a-f]", ENV{USBMUX_SUPPORTED}="1", ATTR{bConfigurationValue}="0", OWNER="usbmux", TAG+="systemd", ENV{SYSTEMD_WANTS}="usbmuxd.service", RUN+="/bin/systemctl start usbmuxd"

# Exit usbmuxd when the last device is removed
ACTION=="remove", SUBSYSTEM=="usb", ENV{PRODUCT}=="5ac/12[9a][0-9a-f]/*", ENV{INTERFACE}=="255/*", RUN+="/bin/systemctl stop usbmuxd"

```

---

### Post by code-by on 2018-08-03
so what is right for today ubuntu 18.04, ipad pro 10.5 2017?

also I have problem - macos highsierra on vmware 14 don't recognize my ipad (

---

### Post by pac12 on 2018-09-21
Ubuntu 18.04

well it worked - sort of.  With the phone plugged in, I executed
   sudo usbmuxd -u -U usbmux

That got me the iphone Documents folder containing application data.  
But no Camera DCIM folder as previously.

---

### Post by murshid1988 on 2018-10-03
Well, when I connect the phone for the first time it works without the issue. 
But once I unplugged and reconnected I will have to enter,[FONT=courier new] 
[/FONT][B][FONT=courier new]
sudo[/FONT][/B]**[FONT=courier new]usbmuxd[/FONT]****[FONT=courier new] -[/FONT]****[FONT=courier new]u -U [/FONT]**[FONT=courier new]**usbmux**[/FONT][B][FONT=courier new] 
[/FONT][/B]
or 

[FONT=courier new]**sudo **[/FONT][FONT=courier new]**systemctl**[/FONT][FONT=courier new]** restart **[/FONT][FONT=courier new][B]usbmuxd 

[/B][/FONT]I am yet to find a proper solution. Anyone found?

---

### Post by murshid1988 on 2018-10-20
> **murshid1988 said:**
> Well, when I connect the phone for the first time it works without the issue. 
But once I unplugged and reconnected I will have to enter,[FONT=courier new] 
[/FONT][B][FONT=courier new]
sudo[/FONT][/B]**[FONT=courier new]usbmuxd[/FONT]****[FONT=courier new] -[/FONT]****[FONT=courier new]u -U [/FONT]**[FONT=courier new]**usbmux**[/FONT][B][FONT=courier new] 
[/FONT][/B]
or 

[FONT=courier new]**sudo **[/FONT][FONT=courier new]**systemctl**[/FONT][FONT=courier new]** restart **[/FONT][FONT=courier new][B]usbmuxd 

[/B][/FONT]I am yet to find a proper solution. Anyone found?

[B]Update:
[/B]After updating to 18.10 this issue is fixed in my PC. Not sure if this is intentional. But looks like my phone gets connected every time without me needing to enter the command.

---

