---
title: "11.04: Unable to Install KDE, Unmet Dependencies"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ajackm on 2011-05-03
I am having trouble installing KDE on a clean install of 11.04.

On each attempt for either kde-full or kde-standard it complains of unmet dependencies.  

adam@Utgard:/etc/apt$ sudo apt-get install kde-full
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies.
 kde-full : Depends: kde-plasma-desktop (>= 5:63ubuntu16) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kde-plasma-netbook (>= 5:63ubuntu16) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdeadmin (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdeartwork (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdegraphics (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdeedu (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdegames (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdemultimedia (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdenetwork (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdeutils (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdepim (>= 4.4) but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: kdeplasma-addons (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Recommends: kde-standard (>= 5:63ubuntu16) but it is not going to be installed
            Recommends: kdeaccessibility (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Recommends: kdesdk (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Recommends: kdetoys (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
            Recommends: kdewebdev (>= 4:4.6.2) but it is not going to be installed
E: Broken packages



If I manually add all of these dependencies it eventually fails with:

Depends: libqtcore4 (= 4:4.7.2-0ubuntu6) but 4:4.7.2-0ubuntu6.1 is to be installed
Depends: libqtgui4 (= 4:4.7.2-0ubuntu6) but 4:4.7.2-0ubuntu6.1 is to be installed

Plus a few other similar lines.

My system is fully up to date, at least according to synaptic.  

I have attached a copy of my sources list, in case that is the problem.

Is it just currently broken and I am going to have to wait, or is there anything else I can do?

---

