---
title: "Quick question:  How do I uninstall web-downloaded software?"
date: 2008-03-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hurtstotalktoyou on 2008-03-15
Hi, all.

I recently tried installing a web-downloaded program (America's Army) from a *.run file (as opposed to Synaptic Package Manager or "sudo apt-get install" in Terminal), and it seemed to work fine.  However, now I'd like to uninstall it and I don't know what to do.  This also reminds me that I have installed some other software from *.deb files, which although I'd like to keep at the moment, I'd still be curious to hear how I can uninstall them if the time comes.

Anyway, how do I uninstall software installed through downloaded *.run and *.deb files?  Specifically, how do I get rid of America's Army?

Thanks!
--Ben

---

### Post by aidanr on 2008-03-15
Locally installed .deb files can be uninstalled through synaptic, there's a section called "Installed (local or obsolete)" that they'll be listed in.

As for Americas Army, run as root the uninstall script in the install directory (probably /usr/local/games/armyops) and remove ~/.armyops

---

### Post by hurtstotalktoyou on 2008-03-15
Hmm.  That script is unintelligible to me.  Here's what it says:

> #! /bin/sh
#### UNINSTALL SCRIPT - Generated by SetupDB 1.6 #####
DetectARCH()
{
        status=1
        case `uname -m` in
           amd64 | x86_64)  echo "amd64"
                  status=0;;
           i?86 | i86*)  echo "x86"
                  status=0;;
           90*/*)
		   echo "hppa"
		   status=0;;
	    *)
		case `uname -s` in
		    IRIX*)
			echo "mips"
			status=0;;
           AIX*)
           echo "ppc"
           status=0;;
		    *)
			arch=`uname -p 2>/dev/null || uname -m`
                       if test "$arch" = powerpc; then
                          echo "ppc"
                       else
                          echo $arch
                       fi
			status=0;;
		esac
        esac
        return $status
}

DetectOS()
{
  os=`uname -s`
  if test "$os" = OpenUNIX; then
     echo SCO_SV
  else
     echo $os
  fi
  return 0
}

if which loki-uninstall 2> /dev/null > /dev/null || type -p loki-uninstall 2> /dev/null > /dev/null; then
    UNINSTALL=loki-uninstall
else
    UNINSTALL="$HOME/.loki/installed/bin/`DetectOS`/`DetectARCH`/uninstall"
    if test ! -x "$UNINSTALL" ; then
        echo Could not find a usable uninstall program. Aborting.
        exit 1
    fi
fi
"$UNINSTALL" "/usr/local/games/armyops/.manifest/armyops.xml" "$1"

Does that make sense to anyone?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-03-15
> **hurtstotalktoyou said:**
> Hmm.  That script is unintelligible to me.  Here's what it says:



Does that make sense to anyone?

I've never read through a loki installer/uninstaller script but it makes reference to loki in a couple places, so that's probably what it is. Why do you ask? Did it not work when you ran it?

---

### Post by hurtstotalktoyou on 2008-03-15
> **PeterJS said:**
> I've never read through a loki installer/uninstaller script but it makes reference to loki in a couple places, so that's probably what it is. Why do you ask? Did it not work when you ran it?

How would I "run" it?  Just cut-and-paste the whole thing into Terminal?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-03-15
open a terminal, cd to where ever the script is and then run it with:
```

sudo ./scriptname

```

EDIT:

You don't always need to use sudo to run a script but in this case, it's an uninstaller that's going to remove system files, so it will need elevated privileges.

---

### Post by atoc on 2008-03-15
> **hurtstotalktoyou said:**
> How would I "run" it?  Just cut-and-paste the whole thing into Terminal?

open terminal
 cd to the location of the script
 type* sh ./nameofthescript*
 [edit] what PeterJS said

---

### Post by hurtstotalktoyou on 2008-03-15
Thanks, guys, but this is turning out to be not anywhere near as simple as I imagined.

I tried both commands: first "sudo ./uninstall", then "sh ./uninstall".  Both times I got back this message:

[indent]Could not find a usable uninstall program. Aborting.[/indent]

Sorry this is getting hairy.  Any further suggestions?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-03-15
Looks like the meta data is missing, that's a bummer.

Good news is I belive that the loki installer is pretty good about installing to stand alone directory (somebody correct me if I'm wrong there, I hope I'm not). If that's the case you just need to find the stand alone directory, I'd look in /opt/, /usr/games/, and /usr/local/games/ and remove that.

There might be a few extranous bits of data that you still need to hunt down like symlinks to someplace on path, some icons in /usr/share/something, and the desktop menu entry but they shouldn't take up too much disk space, so as long as they're unobtrusive I wouldn't worry about them.

---

### Post by hurtstotalktoyou on 2008-03-15
Okay, that sounds fine.  I can't seem to delete the folder from my GUI browser, though.  Is there some kind of delete command I can use in Terminal?

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-03-15
You can run the file browser with elevated privilages with:
```

gksudo nautilus

```
or you can use the rm command from the terminal. There are lots of warnings about using rm and sudo together, see the top of Beginners talk the sticky about malicious commands. rm doesn't move things to the trash, rm doesn't ask if you're sure, it just deletes stuff, so be careful with it, once the command is executed there's no getting those files back.
```

sudo rm -rf /thing/you/want/deleted

```
the r in -rf is for recursive meaning it will delete the directory and anything under it, and is required to delete non-empty directories, and the f in -rf is for force, so it won't ask you if you're sure for each and every file which with several thousand files would be a pain to confirm individually.

---

### Post by hurtstotalktoyou on 2008-03-15
"gksudo nautilus", huh?  Interesting.  This is the first time I've used "gksudo" (as opposed to simply "sudo"), though I'd heard of it before.

Well, that seemed to work.  The only problem now is figuring out why it's not in my Trash can, yet the 1.9 GB which should be free is apparently still in use.

---

### Post by PeterJS on 2008-03-15
Look in /root/.Trash, you moved it to the trash as root so it should be in root's trash can.

---

### Post by aidanr on 2008-03-15
> **hurtstotalktoyou said:**
> Could not find a usable uninstall program. Aborting

From reading other posts on this it seems you have to switch to the root user, not just use sudo so:

```
cd /usr/local/games/armyops
sudo su
./uninstall
exit
```

---

