---
title: "14.04 Login Issue"
date: 2015-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Irish1 on 2015-07-12
I have looked high and low for a post and solution similar to what I am experiencing and have started a new thread as a last resort.

When I start up Ubuntu 14.04 the login screen appears for one second and then my desktop image quickly appears with the Ubuntu logo in the center of the monitor and nothing else and there is nothing I can do but press CRTL+ALT+F1.  I can login in that way and enter commands and have tried updating and upgrading, but nothing seems to work.  Twice I've been able to get to the login in screen by pressing enter a bunch of times, but this hasn't been working for the last couple of days.  I have tried purging Cinnamon as I thought that might be the issue and have installed Bumblebee and have have also tried installing session and unity all to no avail.

I hadn't used Ubuntu in a few months as my wife was using W7 on the other hard-drive, but when I tried to get back in this happened.  I thought I was just so far behind in updates or something that this was the result, but have removed mint-Cinnamon and am now back at a simple 14.04 which is fine, I'd just like to access Ubuntu again.  I do not have Navidia installed, I think I have AMD and/or NCH drivers installed.

Any help would be appreciated or else I will just try reinstalling 14.04 or try Mint.

Thanks for any and all suggestions.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-12
*Thread moved to **General Help**.*

---

### Post by Irish1 on 2015-07-13
Sorry for the troubles Bucky, I just wasn't sure if I had put it in the right place at first, it was late when I posted it twice and I will try to be more aware of the procedures in the future :)

Cheers

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-13
I'll give you a hand by bumping this thread with ... all good and good luck. :)

When you are able to login, can you run this:

```
sudo service lightdm start
```

Does that get you to a desktop?

---

### Post by Irish1 on 2015-07-22
Hi Bucky,

I haven't been able to use my desktop for a week or so while my wife is studying, but no, the command provided does not work.  I enter the code and it says Job is already running: lightdm

It's the weirdest thing, the login screen loads for one second and then the desktop background appears with the Ubuntu logo right in the middle of the screen with the little white dots running barely noticeable both vertically and horizontally and nothing else and I can't do anything but press CTRL+ALT+F1 and enter terminal commands.  CTRL+ALT+F7 takes me back to the desktop background screen with the logo in the middle

I've tried updating, upgrading, distribution upgrade, and release upgrade but nothing seems to allow me to get to the login screen.

Could this have to do with my graphics drivers?  Are there any other commands I can try to enter?  I have Windows 7 on one harddrive and Ubuntu on another and boot into whichever one I need to.  I usually use Ubuntu and my wife like W7.  Could this be at the root of it?  

Thanks again for offering any assistance.

---

### Post by Ricial on 2015-07-22
> I enter the code and it says Job is already running: lightdm

I have this similar issue with my Xubuntu machine, so far the only way for me to get into the login screen back is by [B]re-staring lightdm.

[/B]```
sudo service lightdm restart
```

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-22
DO NOT upgrade a broken install to a new release. That is definitely not the way to go and has a good chance of creating further chaos. Try the command give by Ricial:

```
sudo service lightdm restart
```

---

### Post by Irish1 on 2015-07-25
Amazing guys thanks, I'll try restarting lightdm.  If I can get it going I think I will copy the files I need and do a fresh re-install of 14.04 or else give Linux Mint 17.2 Cinnamon a shot.

Thanks again folks!

---

### Post by Irish1 on 2015-07-25
Well I'm sorry to say restarting lightdm didn't work, it just brought me back to the desktop screen with the Ubuntu logo.  If there are any more suggestions out there I'm all ears.  Is there a way to grab files from the system before I wipe the HD and start over tomorrow?  And on that note can anyone offer their opinion on 14.04 versus Mint 17.2 Cinnamon?

Thanks for all of the help!!!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-25
Opinions regarding which OS is going to suit you are not answerable and not the stuff of a support thread. I suggest you download Mint and create Live media and 'Try Mint' and have a look.

Be aware that Mint is not an officially supported Ubuntu flavour here or by Canonical, but Mint does have an active and vibrant community.

To backup your files before a reinstall boot from live media (your install disk/USB)> Try Ubuntu> save your data to an external device.

---

### Post by Vladlenin5000 on 2015-07-25
Have you tried entering the password anyway?
A big Ubuntu logo in the middle suggests that's the right part of an extended desktop (the user/pw field in the left). In this scenario typing the pw should work.
However, with so many desktop environments installed and uninstalled, many bad things can happen - and usually do - to greeters and stuff. Combine that with messing with bumblebee (hybrid Intel+AMD?) and who knows?

With some luck, reconfiguring lightdm might just work properly and let you login. What you'll find there once in session I dare not speculate about.
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure lightdm
```

---

