---
title: "9.04: My desktop icons are gone!"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BazookaAce on 2009-04-23
Hi, 

I made an fresh install of 9.04 Netbook Remix today, and it went fine, but from nowhere, my desktop icons just disappered! I've checked and unchecked the "show_desktop" in conf-editor, rebooted, and sooo on, but nothing works.. 

So, and ideas?! Thanks

---

### Post by GamesMasta on 2009-04-23
Are your panels on top and bottom gone too?

---

### Post by Jason Pettitt on 2009-04-24
I'm getting this too. Switching between classic and netbook remix desktops, at least on my EEE PC 901, is shaky. Restarting the machine from the classic desktop produces a kind of desktop limbo where the user interface is all but non-existent and from which there is no obvious escape.

I don't have a satisfactory solution, but as a work around I right clicked on the background while in limbo and created a new launcher with a suitable description and the command ```
desktop-switcher
```

Clicking on the new launcher should help you recover some sort of user interface so you can use your computer again. It ain't pretty.

---

### Post by BazookaAce on 2009-04-24
No, my panels are not gone. Just the icons, and the right-click-on-desktop-feature.

There must be a fix! I'M NOT re-installing the whole crappy s**** again.

---

### Post by meeples on 2009-04-24
what do you mean your desktop icons are gone, do you mean the icons on the launcher or the icons on the actual desktop?

---

### Post by BazookaAce on 2009-04-24
The icons on the desktop. And when i'm trying to right-click on the desktop nothing happens.

---

### Post by meeples on 2009-04-24
the launcher replaces the icons on the desktop but you should still be able to access them through

Places > Desktop

...

---

### Post by BazookaAce on 2009-04-24
Yeah, i know, but it's f****** annoying!!

---

### Post by meeples on 2009-04-24
ahaha touche.

i personally would just delete the netbook launcher ;)

---

### Post by BazookaAce on 2009-04-24
Ok, the icons back. I did this:'

System-->Preferences-->Switch desktop mode

Then i switched to the ugly Maximus netbook-wm and then switched back to the original wm.

---

### Post by The Law on 2009-04-30
To piggyback off of this, my desktop icons also disappear and right-clicking on the desktop does not work after inserting media such as a blank CD-R. Also, I can't even access through Places>Desktop.  The process starts, but then does nothing.  Is this a bug or something in Jaunty?

---

### Post by BazookaAce on 2009-04-30
Looks like some people is having this problem. Have you tried the different methods in this thread?

---

### Post by The Law on 2009-04-30
Hello BazookaAce. 
Yes, I actually have.  I was able to bring up Places>Desktop with the CD media removed from the drive, but I have to reboot to correct the issue with the icons missing.  It's not really that big of a deal because I can still launch from the applications menu, but it is annoying as you said.
 
The Law

---

### Post by Devport on 2009-04-30
I don't know which desktop environment Netbook Remix uses. Yet I had the same problem when updating Ubuntu Desktop to Jaunty - a newly created user has the desktop but not my own old account. I didn't find a way to fix GNOME ( all settings are correct ) but I did a hack which works just fine :

System -> Preferences -> Start Programs ( translated from german ... ) : Added an entry "Nautilus" with command "nautilus -n". That brought back my desktop - still its just a hack to fix a GNOME bug. It seems under certain circumstances gnome doesn't start nautilus as it did right now.

Before doing so you can just launch ( Alt + F2 ) "nautilus -n" and check if it helps.

Yet, as I said this is for Ubuntu Desktop ...

---

### Post by Eupho on 2009-04-30
I hope i am understanding the problem you are all having. You can't remove the Netbook remix the way it used to be done through sessions and un checking maximus and the  UME launcher.

Go to "System / Preferences / switch desktop mode"  and take it from there. 

Be sure to re check the Maximus and UME launchers in Startup applications as before you use "switch desktop mode".

This will give you the classic desktop with your Icons, top and bottom panels and right click function.

Hope this helps
Paul

---

### Post by BazookaAce on 2009-04-30
I'm using Gnome, and i've deleted the ugly Maximus-wm, but before i deleted it, i just switched from the original Gnome-desktop to Maximus from the preferences-menu, and the icons came back when i switched back to the original Gnome-desktop.

I don't know why, but it worked for me.

---

### Post by The Law on 2009-05-01
Well I've narrowed my problem down to my secondary cd drive.  It seems that any media that I put in it will cause the icons to disappear and disable right-click on the desktop.  It must be something during the mounting phase of the drive that I'm using.  My primary DVD drive works with no problems with media inserted.  Well more troubleshooting later.

---

### Post by rajsrawat05 on 2009-10-25
Hi, i have been using ubuntu 9.04 since june09. But i have an issue.
Whenever I insert any cd in cd drive, the desktop icons disappears while the taskbar is there. No icons on desktop. It seems ubuntu is trying to read cd or whatever, but desktop icons disappear!
Then i press Crtl+alt+backspace with cd still inside, but login window appears.
after i login, it is still the same- no desktop.
 those cds work well on [windows XP[IMG]http://images.intellitxt.com/ast/adTypes/mag-glass_10x10.gif[/IMG]]("http://www.ubuntux.org/node/9138#"). What could be the issue.
I will post any details required about system. In fact, I have [linux[IMG]http://images.intellitxt.com/ast/adTypes/mag-glass_10x10.gif[/IMG]]("http://www.ubuntux.org/node/9138#") mint7 installed with ubuntu 9.04 alongside XP on this system. Same issues with mint7.
CAn anyone help!

---

### Post by rajsrawat05 on 2009-10-27
**Re: 9.04: My desktop icons are gone!**
 		Hi, i have been using ubuntu 9.04 since june09. But i have an issue.
Whenever I insert any cd in cd drive, the desktop icons disappears while the taskbar is there. No icons on desktop. It seems ubuntu is trying to read cd or whatever, but desktop icons disappear!
Then i press Crtl+alt+backspace with cd still inside, but login window appears.
after i login, it is still the same- no desktop.
 those cds work well on [windows XP[IMG]http://images.intellitxt.com/ast/adTypes/mag-glass_10x10.gif[/IMG]]("http://www.ubuntux.org/node/9138#"). What could be the issue.
I will post any details required about system. In fact, I have [linux[IMG]http://images.intellitxt.com/ast/adTypes/mag-glass_10x10.gif[/IMG]]("http://www.ubuntux.org/node/9138#") mint7 installed with ubuntu 9.04 alongside XP on this system. Same issues with mint7.
CAn anyone help!


_**SOLUTION:-**_

Open a terminal beforehand. Then Insert the CD in CD drive.
Type this command in terminal. Log out and log in. Problem resolved.

sudo chmod a-r /usr/lib/nautilus/extensions-2.0/libnautilus-brasero-extension.so


This solved my problem for good.

---

### Post by Akuma_s on 2009-11-04
> **meeples said:**
> ahaha touche.

i personally would just delete the netbook launcher ;)

[SIZE=3]I made all the changes in ***gconf-editor*** but didn't work, then I just removed this ***ubuntu-netbook-remix*** feature from the ***Synaptic Package Manager*** and voilá, all my desktop icons are back also my right-click alternate menu thingy.
Thanks all for the help.
Thread solved for me [/SIZE];)

---

