---
title: "18.10 Audio out not working"
date: 2018-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by penguin511 on 2018-11-14
I just built my first PC and installed ubuntu and it has been great so far. It was working great for a week but just today my headphones out audio stopped working. I was messing with my BIOS a bit (nothing fancy, just changing the priority boot drive) so maybe that did it.

I have tried many of the typical fixes. As far as settings go, I only have my HDMI (monitor) and S/PDIF as options. If i remember right the S/PDIF wasn't an option previously and I don't have any s/pdif cables. I have installed/reset pulse audio and alsa mixer. Here's a screen shot of my sound prefs and alsa.  [ATTACH=CONFIG]281633[/ATTACH]

It doesn't look like most alsas I've seen. When I select the different sound card it looks like this. [ATTACH=CONFIG]281634[/ATTACH]
I am simply trying to use my aux out on the front of my desktop to use speakers that I know work well. They even make the click noise when i plug them in. I've done a lot of the fixes online and nothing has worked so far. I seem to have all of the audio drivers. I just can't seem to locate my audio out for my headphones.
Thanks in advance!
PS [here's the link to my alsa details]("http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=bc996ceae895c2297733a9df195eacc80f9d350e")
[And here's a pic of the only outputs it recognizes:]("https://ibb.co/dvfZpf") How do I add my headphone jack back into the mix? It was once there.

EDIT: I have solved it. My plug for my from panel audio is dumb and doesn't go in very well. I should have remembered to check the connections right away. Speakers are working fine and well now.

---

