---
title: "[14.04] Missing space after clone from usb -&gt; ssd"
date: 2014-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nim2 on 2014-08-08
Hi,

today I bought a new SSD (128GB) harddrive to upgrade my server. The server was running from an old 16GB USB stick (Ubuntu 14.04 x64) which was slow as hell. So I used dd if=/dev/sdc of=/dev/sda to copy the data from the USB stick to the new SSD. Everything worked flawless. Then, I fired up gparted, and added the remaining 119GB to the extended partition, and then to the LVM partition. Now, in gparted it looks something like:

sda1: /boot 4GB
sda2: extended 119GB
sda5: LVM 119GB

everything boots just fine, all my data is there, but when I use df -h, it still shows the same data as it still where on the USB stick. I have no idea why gparted shows the "correct" data, but Ubuntu doesnt. Do I need to change something?

---

### Post by PaulBx on 2014-08-08
>  it still shows the same data as it still where on the USB stick

What exactly is it showing?

This seems like a somewhat risky procedure to me (not that I can explain why) although I can see why you tried it that way. Might have been better to just start with gparted, create what you want, make it bootable and then just copy the files over.

---

### Post by nim2 on 2014-08-08
I meant the size of the partitions. It's a 128GB SSD, and thats what df -h shows:

Filesystem                     Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/mapper/svr--vg-root   11G  8.1G  1.9G  82% /
none                           4.0K     0  4.0K   0% /sys/fs/cgroup
udev                           1.9G   12K  1.9G   1% /dev
tmpfs                          390M  788K  389M   1% /run
none                           5.0M     0  5.0M   0% /run/lock
none                           2.0G     0  2.0G   0% /run/shm
none                           100M     0  100M   0% /run/user
/dev/sda1                      236M   68M  156M  31% /boot

but it should have the additional space from the new SSD added to /dev/mapper/svr--vg-root
according to gparted this is the case, but df somehow thinks otherwise.

---

### Post by nim2 on 2014-08-09
done

---

