---
title: "U9.10 every second boot fails, does not mount"
date: 2010-03-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vitkowal on 2010-03-14
Hi there, 

i am very frustrated with my ubuntu system which is meant as a workstation-server. It seems to loose track of its drives every time I add diskspace.

Now every other boot (it seems) it says (among other things: VFS: can't find ext3 filesystem on dev sdd5) drops me to a maintenance-shell and asks for the root password (whats that in ubuntu, the user password does not word) - so I can't log in. Ctrl-D sometimes works and it boots through or boots after warmstart by Ctrl-Alt-Del. 

[edit: found out that with alt-f3 i can access a normal shell - good - but how do I start up the GUI in ubuntu? - startx does not work] 

I have manually fsck'd all ext2/3 partitions form a ubuntu booted from CD - still it says something about not being able to mount /dev/sdd5.

Since every now and then I have so much trouble bringing up the machine I am quite unhappy.  I suspect the constant updates are prone to break things - is that so? 

And how do I resolve this issue. Unfortunately there is nothing about the errors in /var/log/messages or dmesg so it is no use posting it here. 

Where are such errors recorded? 

[edit: I changed the mappings in fstab to resolve the issue - still it is awkward that drives get messed up so easily. Are UUIDs in fstab less error prone when moving drives around, or do they have other issues?]

Regards, 

mat

---

### Post by DawieS on 2010-03-14
I have done a lot of mounting/unmounting tests with a total of 5 disks, containing a lot of ext3 and NTFS partitions. I came to the conclusion that Ubuntu 9.10 (karmic) is truly plug&play, provided that you follow the following 3 rules:

- the **/etc/fstab** file should contain only lines for the CD/DVD ROM, and the drive of the Ubuntu installation, identified as **sda1** with a **UUID** number during installation (no other drives/partitions).
- no manual mount points should be created for any disks/partitions in **/media** or where-ever. Disks/partitions should be properly labeled with different labels, not containing spaces.
- should you decide to boot from another Ubuntu installation on another disk, you should set the BIOS boot sequence accordingly. On this disk, again the same first 2 rules apply.

The allocation of the labels sdb;sdc;sdd.... occurs dynamically depending on which drives are switched on, and may differ from one boot to the next, the same with the sequence in which drives appear (unmounted) in the file browser. Drives will disappear from the file browser when switched off, and may re-appear if switched on again later.

Mount points are only created in /media once clicked on the drive. The **/etc/mtab** file always shows the currently mounted partitions.

External **SATA** drives are seen by Ubuntu as internal. Only **USB** drives are seen as external. The default behavior in terms of the authorization for mounting/unmounting of internal drives can be adjusted. For more information, please read [_**this**_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1417038") thread.
:grin:

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-03-14
> **vitkowal said:**
> i am very frustrated with my ubuntu system which is meant as a workstation-server. It seems to loose track of its drives every time I add diskspace.

Here are some other related (all Karmic) threads, none marked solved yet:

Random freezing in 9.10 karmic [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309015](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309015)

9.10 suspend/hibernate issue [http://www.backports.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307618](http://www.backports.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307618)

One or more of the mounts listed in /etc/fstab/ cannot yet be mounted (Karmic)  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306009)

remounted read-only after resume [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/438379](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/438379)

Resume fails after suspend/hibernate [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/468850](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/468850)

My machine was booted, suspended, hibernated and resumed faultlessly under previous versions of Ubuntu. Since installing Ununtu 9.10 Karmic I am having frequent boot and resume errors and have found no indication of what the real problem is.

---

### Post by DawieS on 2010-03-15
> **StuartN said:**
> Here are some other related (all Karmic) threads, none marked solved yet:

Random freezing in 9.10 karmic [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309015](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309015)

9.10 suspend/hibernate issue [http://www.backports.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307618](http://www.backports.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1307618)

One or more of the mounts listed in /etc/fstab/ cannot yet be mounted (Karmic)  [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306009)

remounted read-only after resume [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/438379](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/438379)

Resume fails after suspend/hibernate [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/468850](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/468850)

My machine was booted, suspended, hibernated and resumed faultlessly under previous versions of Ubuntu. Since installing Ununtu 9.10 Karmic I am having frequent boot and resume errors and have found no indication of what the real problem is.
These bug reports all seem to pertain to a **hibernation** problem, which I am unable to comment on, since I do not use the hibernation facility.

The topic of this thread is more about **mounting** problems, such as:
- Drives appearing doubled up in the file browser, with an error message if clicked on the wrong choice.
- Drives cross-mounting to the wrong partition, even if using the more robust **UUID **identification in **/etc/fstab**.
- Ext3 drives mounting/unmounting correctly, unable to mount/unmount **NTFS** partitions.
- Drives mounting/unmounting correctly only once, thereafter unable to mount/unmount correctly. Have to reboot to be able to mount/unmount again.

I have run into all these problems during my testing of different mounting configurations and options in the **/ets/sudoers** and **/etc/fstab** files. Some of these configurations might have worked for previous versions of Ubuntu, but not for 9.10 (Karmic).

The only 2 items that should be in **/media** after a reboot, are **cdrom** and **cdrom0**, of which one is a link to the other. The boot file system is mounted by default, and should not appear in **/media**. If you have manually added any mount points, these should be deleted by using **sudo nautilus** in a terminal. If you keep one file browser open at **/media**, and click on drives in another browser (or another tab in the same browser), you will see that a new mount point is created for each drive, using the partition label. These mount points will disappear immediately after you click on the up-arrow next to the label, unmounting it.

You can change the default disk behavior of Karmic by editing the following file using the '**sudo gedit**' command in a terminal:

/usr/share/polkit-1/actions/org.freedesktop.devicekit.disks.policy

To be able to mount disks without password authentication, look for the following header:

<action id="org.freedesktop.devicekit.disks.filesystem-mount-system-internal">

under that will be something like this:

<defaults>
<allow_any>no</allow_any>
<allow_inactive>no</allow_inactive>
<allow_active>[COLOR=Red]auth_admin_keep[/COLOR]</allow_active>
</defaults>

change the highlighted one to:

<allow_active>[COLOR=Red]yes[/COLOR]</allow_active>

Save, exit and reboot. You should now be able to auto-mount your NTFS drives.

Notes:
- Please check whether you are enabled to **Mount user-space filesystems** in the **System - Administration - Users and Groups - Properties** tab.
- These changes may be overwritten by an upgrade and may require re-doing.
- From a security viewpoint, it is best to keep all drives unmounted when not required for service, especially while on the Internet. External drives should be switched off, to also prolong useful life.

I have Karmic running on three desktops in a home network, all with different hardware. I sometimes swap external drives between desktops, for super-fast file transfers. Since making these changes (and applying the 3 rules), I have found Karmic to be an absolute pleasure to work with!:grin::grin::grin:

---

### Post by vitkowal on 2010-03-15
Thanks for all the useful replies so far. I will change my setup accordingly. But I am a bit sceptic about having everything automagically mount (on the other hand, thats a bit like what windows did all the time before). 

Since my ubuntu 9.10 box has to share two 2TB Disks via samba on the LAN these need to be mounted and ready at all times. Boot-Problems in the morning are not an option, but reason for a heart attack. 

Therefore one question remains: 

How can I fix/nail the mounts so that I can share them via samba (that was the reason to put them permanently in fstab). 

Or will ubuntu take care that all samba mounts are still there after each boot? 

Thanks a lot, guys!

My old debian server did not do so many things behind my back ... it just did what I said until I changed it ... I miss that a bit.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-03-16
There is a new version of mountall in Karmic Proposed repository, with this Launchpad bug attached [https://launchpad.net/bugs/456806](https://launchpad.net/bugs/456806) that sounds possibly like your (and my mount-on-resume) problem.

---

### Post by DawieS on 2010-03-19
> **vitkowal said:**
> But I am a bit sceptic about having everything automagically mount (on the other hand, thats a bit like what windows did all the time before).
The drives will not be auto-mounted, but will be available for mounting by being detected and showing up in the file browser. You still have to either click on a drive to mount, or mount it with script, or manually from a terminal.

The big difference is that you will be able to safely unmount, switch off and unplug an external SATA drive, without having to reboot your server. It is only NTFS drives/partitions that are the spanner in the works. If you have only ext2/3/4 drives, you would probably get away with entries in /etc/fstab alone.
> **vitkowal said:**
> Or will ubuntu take care that all samba mounts are still there after each boot?
I don't know. So far I have successfully shared only ext3 type partitions between desktops, not NTFS. I haven't spent much time on it, and my networking skills are limited. Maybe I should give it a try this weekend.:grin:

---

### Post by mbuell on 2010-04-17
I've just had a similar problem. I've not found a definitive resolution, but I do believe I've found some things that can shed some light. Perhaps someone else can take what I've found another step or two.

What I experienced was this. I created a couple of new partitions, one for /var, and one for my samba share. Booted from cd. Created the partitions, no prob. Moved the data, no prob (/var is a little tricky with /var/tmp and /var/lib/gdm, but I've been down this road before). Rebooted - big problem. Won't boot, grub can't find anything, root won't mount, etc. Black screen with a choice - enter root pw (for emergency restore session), or ctrl-D to reboot.

Now, I've previously had issues using the UUID in fstab. Last time it was creating a separate /home. For some reason I can't get UUID references to work when I create a new partition scheme, and I have to revert to sdx labels. This quote, from the online man page for mount, might eventually lead me to "WHY": "Mount by label or uuid will work only if your devices have the names listed in /proc/partitions. In particular, it may well fail if the kernel was compiled with devfs but devfs is not mounted." ([_[COLOR="Blue"]man 8 mount[/COLOR]_]("http://linux.die.net/man/8/mount")). But for now, I can't get the UUID to work. This time I tried again, but on 1st fail, I made sure I changed to labels in fstab.

This thread [_[COLOR="Blue"]uuid fstab fails boot[/COLOR]_]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1308203&highlight=uuid+fstab+fails+boot&page=2") seems to have a partial work-around using remount. When the boot fails, and drops you to an Init3, no gui, read-only access to /, you may be able to use the remount option to get things working. From forum member simmcrd: 
[LIST]
[*]type "mount -v -w -n -o remount /" to remount your root filesystem read-write
[*]now type "mount -v -a", do NOT use mountall, use mount
[*]type "swapon -v -a"
[*]that should to it. Type "exit" to get out of special seesion and to resume boot. Voila!
[/LIST]
What he is doing is to mount your root partition as read-write (the mount -o remount). Then, using the mount -a switch (which tells mount to mount everything in fstab) gets your system back in the running. You'll have to start your desktop yourself, but this might get you running. 
For me, this only worked partly, but somehow, in the process of doing this, my system eventually rebooted successfully. But I don't know why. I didn't change anything - I just mounted the drives and unsuccessfully tried to load gnome. Gnome froze, so I rebooted, and everything started to work. 

Along the way, I found the following, which were educational and useful for me:

This gets you started on fstab fundamentals for Ubuntu. It also addresses how to boot with samba shares.
[INDENT][_[COLOR="blue"]Fstab#File System Specific Examples[/COLOR]_]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Fstab#File System Specific Examples")[/INDENT]
Tells you about a gui fstab tool.
[INDENT][[COLOR="blue"]_uuid+fstab+fails+boot_[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=872197&highlight=uuid+fstab+fails+boot")[/INDENT]
Here's a script that checks Grub and other stuff to check out your boot settings. Works nicely. 
 [INDENT][_[COLOR="blue"]boot info script by meier[/COLOR]_]("http://sourceforge.net/projects/bootinfoscript/")[/INDENT]
This tells you how to find your UUID's on your own.
    [INDENT][_[COLOR="blue"]http://linux.byexamples.com/archives/321/fstab-with-uuid/[/COLOR]_]("http://linux.byexamples.com/archives/321/fstab-with-uuid/")[/INDENT]

~~~~~~~~~~~

hiero2

---

### Post by vitkowal on 2010-04-30
Hi, 

with high hopes I upgraded to 10.04 LTS just to find that the problem has not been addressed but instead a new problem has been added. 

I have two nvidia-cards and now the mouse-pointer trembles on one monitor and the mouse is unusable there. The other monitor works fine. 

I have not yet tried ignoring the second card and putting both monitors on one card because I expected a loss of performance and it worked with 9.10. 

Any ideas? 

Thanks a lot in advance! 

vitkowal

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-04-30
> **vitkowal said:**
> with high hopes I upgraded to 10.04 LTS just to find that the problem has not been addressed

So you are still experiencing the "10.04 every second boot fails" problem with the official release version of 10.04?

I have installed 10.04 also and still have the same problem. Interestingly, I had the following in my syslog after the most recent fsck on bootup:

```
Apr 30 08:06:57 Agrajag rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="4.2.0" x-pid="761" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] (re)start
Apr 30 08:06:57 Agrajag rsyslogd: rsyslogd's groupid changed to 103
Apr 30 08:06:57 Agrajag rsyslogd: rsyslogd's userid changed to 101
Apr 30 08:06:57 Agrajag rsyslogd-2039: Could no open output file '/dev/xconsole' [try http://www.rsyslog.com/e/2039 ]
```

---

### Post by vitkowal on 2010-05-03
[QUOTE=StuartN;9199670]So you are still experiencing the "10.04 every second boot fails" problem with the official release version of 10.04?

Yep, unfortunately. It seems to ocurr less often and is mitigated a bit, because "Ctrl-D" is offered to immediately reboot, lifting the requirement to log in and "sudo reboot". 

Can I offer any information from /var/log/messages that would help to find the fault? 

What should I look for? 

I have not yet tried booting with less hdds online, because I need them online all the time. 

Regards, mat

---

### Post by vitkowal on 2010-05-03
> **DawieS said:**
> 
You can change the default disk behavior of Karmic by editing the following file using the '**sudo gedit**' command in a terminal:

/usr/share/polkit-1/actions/org.freedesktop.devicekit.disks.policy



I can't find this file under Ubuntu 10.04 - does it not exist any more? 

Thanks for the other tips anyway, since I removed every line from fstab ubuntu seems to get along better with hdds. Still odd, but I am trying to get along. 

Regards, mat

---

### Post by DawieS on 2010-05-04
I have noticed that. However, the default behavior of not having to provide a password each time for mounting a disk suits me fine.

But then again, I am using the beta2 version of Lucid, that has been updated. It is possible that those settings may have changed for the final release.

There is another file in the same folder named **org.freedesktop.udisks.policy** in which the setting for **Mount a device** is by default marked as **yes** on my PC.

---

### Post by rcbinwi on 2010-11-06
I'm having problems with write access to my XP NTFS partition in 9.10.  DawieS's suggestion didn't help, unfortunately.  I used ntfs-config to get it so I could at least write to documents on my NTFS partition.  But it seems I still can't get my Firefox to use my profile in the XP partition.

Now that I'm using ntfs-config, I can only unmount the partition from nautilus as root.  This is a new development.

Any suggestions?

---

