---
title: "11.10 PC cannot be revived from Suspend"
date: 2012-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rick_james on 2012-02-06
I use lubuntu 11.10 Oneiric on a desktop PC that I built myself.

Suspend causes the hard drive and monitor to spin down/turn off.

However, pushing the power button causes the hard drive to spin up and the optical mouse to turn on but the monitor and keyboard are still off, so I must do a hard reboot.

Is there a solution?  Is it my BIOS settings? (Award BIOS)

Here are my system specifications:

Shuttle AN35N-400 motherboard with latest BIOS (nforce2 chipset, non-dual channel)
Award BIOS
nVidia Geforce FX5500 AGP 8x video card with nVidia drivers
Serial ATA hard drive on Silicon Image 3x12 PCI SATA card (Windows XP)
PATA hard drive (Lubuntu)
Dell LCD monitor (analog VGA only)
AMD Duron 1800MHz processor
 
In the BIOS, I have it set to "DPMS" power management (fail-safe defaults for power management)
ACPI is always enabled and cannot be disabled

Is there a workaround?

Thanks.

---

### Post by aasdfasdfg on 2012-02-06
When you say "suspend", do you mean "suspend to disk" (AKA hibernate)?
Normally, suspend refers to a low power "standby" state for the motherboard to enter.

In any case, if the issue is just keyboard and monitor, it may be fixable. Do you use a USB keyboard, or the old-style PS/2 keyboard?

---

### Post by rick_james on 2012-02-06
> When you say "suspend", do you mean "suspend to disk" (AKA hibernate)?
Normally, suspend refers to a low power "standby" state for the motherboard to enter.

In any case, if the issue is just keyboard and monitor, it may be fixable. Do you use a USB keyboard, or the old-style PS/2 keyboard?

Wow. Thank you for the quick reply. :-)

There are options, "Suspend" and "Hibernate" after I click "logout". I chose "Suspend".

I use a Logitech USB keyboard.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-02-06
What graphics driver are you using, the open source drivers or the proprietary drivers available through the Additional Drivers utility?

---

### Post by rick_james on 2012-02-06
> What graphics driver are you using, the open source drivers or the proprietary drivers available through the Additional Drivers utility?

I'm using the proprietary drivers from the Additional Drivers utility.

---

### Post by aasdfasdfg on 2012-02-07
Just today, there was an update released to the Gtk-3 packages that includes this [patch]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+3.0/+bug/882956")

I am not sure, but there is a chance this might have been what you were running into. Does it persist after applying this update?

---

### Post by railmeat on 2012-02-07
I have the same problem on my ThinkPad T61p.

I have all the latest patches installed. I am running the current NVIDIA driver from the Additional Drivers. However I have tried several versions of the propritary driver and the open source dirver the came with the OS to no avail. They all behave the same.

---

