---
title: "11.10 Vbox VM can't send acpipowerbutton signal unless logged in to a user"
date: 2011-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dohclude on 2011-12-02
I've got an Ubuntu 11.10 system running in an Oracle VirtualBox VM. It was installed at version 11.04 and then recently upgraded to 11.10. I run this VM in "headless" mode and send commands to it to power it on and shut it down safely via the "VboxManage" command,

ex. "vboxmanage controlvm MyLinuxVM acpipowerbutton"

But now after upgrading, the system ignores the ACPI power off signal if a user has not logged in yet locally on the VM. I run the VM headless so it runs in the background so no users are logged in and it's actually sitting at the login screen. I need to be able to power it off via these commands, but it totally ignores it. Even when logged in it displays a 60 second countdown before shutting down. I've tried the power settings which give me pretty much no configuration options whatsoever. Is there anything I can do to get this working like it used to without reverting my updates?

---

### Post by dohclude on 2011-12-06
anybody?

---

### Post by dohclude on 2011-12-06
I figured it out. I had to change the function that runs whenever the acpipowerbutton signal is recieved. By default it runs a script (/etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh) which checks to see what environment the user is in and then tries to let that environment control the shutdown. Well lightdm doesn't do anything when it recieves the signal. I simply edited the "/etc/acpi/events/powerbtn" file to run "shutdown -h now" instead of using the "environment check" script.

---

