---
title: "12.04 Browser fonts changed unexpectedly"
date: 2012-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jdier on 2012-11-18
running 12.04 and recently installed Font Manager and a handful of fonts that I use in Gimp.

After a recent reboot some fonts in both chromium and firefox are screwy.

fonts on this page are all 100% ok ([www.askubuntu.com](www.askubuntu.com))

But fonts on these pages have changed to one of my newly installed fonts. facebook google yahoo (some) gmail

I had MyUnity installed and chose restore all default fonts, but that had no effect.

I have also recently installed font-manager

Usettings no longer launches for me for some reason.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Aaron Christianson on 2012-11-18
It may have to do with the site settings of the pages you mentioned. you might try installing the ttf-mscorefonts-installer, which will probably give you all of the fonts that most web-pages try to use, so you won't have to worry about a page defaulting to something weird if the one it wants isn't on your system.

Other than that, I know firefox has font override settings, where you can force it to use your font settings rather than those of the website. Edit>Preferences>Content>Advanced (under fonts)> uncheck the box that allows websites to use their own fonts. I don't use Chromium, so I can't tell you about choosing fonts there.

---

### Post by jdier on 2012-11-19
Thanks aaron,

It does not seem to be just those pages.   I have a feeling while installing fonts or font manager I somehow changed a link for where my system looks for fonts.

---

### Post by jdier on 2012-11-19
Also, the font problem is only on my user account.   My daughter's ubuntu log in is fine.

The fonts that I did install were put in my home directory /home/user/fonts

---

### Post by jdier on 2012-11-19
It seems clear now that the installation of Font-Manager is what caused this problem.   I have not removed Font-Manager since I like it for previewing and hope to be able to keep using it.

So, I am not 100% sure I did this all correctly, but I renamed ~/.fonts.conf  to ~/.fonts.conf_bk

~/.fonts.conf looked like this:

```
[I]This file is maintained by Font Manager.
    If you wish to make any changes it is suggested you do so using
        /home/jdier/.config/font-manager/local.conf
    Any changes made to this file will be automatically relocated there
    at startup and any settings already in that file will be overwritten.[/I]
```

It included listings of directories for fonts, but did not include anything in /usr/share so I think that is where the standard fonts are and when the system could not find them, it just grabbed some of the decorative fonts that I had installed into ~/fonts

---

