---
title: "Nvidia Settings"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-05-08
Is there a way to load Nvidia saved configuration at boot up, Screen res, refresh rate, twin view, etc...? In one of my other posts I was told "nvidia-settings -l" after saving current configuration, would be the command, but does not seem to work. Is there no workarund for getting my nvidia settings to load at boot up? Boots into 800x600 with twin view disabled, have to reset everything every time I restart X.

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-05-23
I tried saving nvidia generated script to xorg.conf restarted x and thought everything was all good. But then I realized I had no window borders and when I open a terminal it opens as a white box and cannot read no text at all in it...so far these are the onlt 2 problems so far. Here is the nvidia generated script....


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HP MX50"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 54.0
    VertRefresh     47.0 - 100.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 MX 440 with AGP8X"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1024x768 +0+0, TV: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


Any suggestions on what could be the problem here would be Great...thanx

---

### Post by fillintheblanks on 2009-05-23
Yes. adding **nvidia-settings -l** to your Preferences > Startup Apps should do the trick

also you did type **sudo nvidia-settings** right

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-05-23
Yes...I ran nvidia-settings  from the sudo command, saved to xorg.conf. As I said, all my display settings are loaded now but...I have no window borders and my terminal windows are all white (just a white box)

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-05-25
When you say use "nvidia-settings -l" am I supposed to save the settings to xorg, or somewhere else? Cause, first off if I save to xorg I dont seem to need "nvidia-settings -l" but like I said there is a couple things wrong.

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-05-25
go to system > preferences > appearance > visual effects tab (or just right-click on desktop > change desktop background > visual effects tab)

set to "none"

see if that fixes it.

if it works....you can go back and set it to "normal" or "extras" again afterwards and see if works any better.  post back if the effects still do not work and we will see if we can fix it.

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-05-25
O.k...after turning off visual fx everything is fine, the problems I mentioned are fixed, and when turning back on, I loose the window borders, cairo-dock, terminal windows go white. So I'm guessing it has something to do with compiz huh?

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-05-25
try installing emerald and see if the borders come back...in a terminal,  type or copy/paste:

```
sudo apt-get install emerald
```after it installs,  try to enable the effects again.  if there are no borders...press the alt-f2 keys (or use the terminal) and type this:

```
emerald --replace &
```then click "run" (or press enter if in a terminal)

hope that helps

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-05-25
Well, unfortunately I am already running emerald. And I have tried switching between emerald and gtk with no luck.

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-05-26
Any other suggestions out there? This really was not too big a deal at first (resetting display settings) every time at boot up. but it is really starting to get old and would really like to remedy the problem.

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-05-29
Beginning to wonder if there's a solution for this. Any1?

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-06-02
can I bump myself? haha

---

### Post by sTpny on 2009-06-02
First open your xorg.conf file. 

from the command line.. 

sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf


Next, try adding DRI to your modules section and then add a DRI section, setting the mode to 0666, like this.. 

Section "Module"
 load "DRI"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
 Mode 0666
Endsection

.. The 0666 might need quotes.. can't remember exactly, but that might just get rid of the white for you.. 

save and restart your computer. 

If it didn't work, add quotes around the "0666" 

Now.. For the Window Borders.. First thing is to make sure you have reflections off and Window Decorations On in your compiz settings. Next would be to install several emerald themes. I can't recall why some work and others don't with some systems, but I do recall that its true. If you still get nothing, try to disable your compiz Options slowly, (one or two at a time) so you can maybe see where the conflict is. Good luck.

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-06-02
Thanx man. Been messing with this for a while now. Its been my one and only real gripe  with ubuntu. Been buckin microsoft since the beginning (always used pirated copies)"shhh" been back and forth with linux and MS for years, but now linux is my primary os.  Don't wanna let this lil problem stop me from dropping 'em for good ...haha. I'll post back w/ results.

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-06-03
Well, With the quotes was no good, got message "running in low graphics mode" edited, w/o quotes and no luck, still got the white. Tried it by "merge w/ existing config file" and then w/o merging. w/ and w/o quotes again.  I can find my way around pretty good w/ a lil help, but as far as configuring x, well, Still have a ways to go.

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-06-17
[Bump] I still have not found a fix for this. Any other suggestions would be appreciated.

---

### Post by Feelin_froggy8877 on 2009-10-09
Bump, again?

---

