---
title: "10.10 beginers issues"
date: 2011-02-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TomyK on 2011-02-13
Hello everyone

The name's Tom and im a Linux virgin.
Trying to find a good solution to start flirting with open source i have come across ubuntu.
Searched a lot in the web and found that the latest yet easiest to noobs is 10.10.3 days have passed since i have started trying ti set it up i have come across A LOT of problems due to my noobity.
1st of all yet solved in the way was an issue with my gfx card.I have the GT X 285 and every time i log in to my os i have ti resize the desktop cuz it never stays as it should.
2nd and most serious , i cant find a way to set up my sound card.
I have the Creative SoundBlaste XFi Platinum.I have found tons of walkthroughs but none worked and i feel i have messed up the sound drivers system really bad.
I also have an on board soundcard but i cant enable that one as well.
My MB is Gigabyte P55 UD6 LGA 1156.
Any help would be appreciated as soon as humanly possible.
Thanx in advance
:)

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2011-02-13
For someone new to linux I'd recommend Ubuntu 10.04.1 since it's a Long Term Release which is supported for up to 2 years...

A fresh install will fix most of your problems and as for sound, both cards will be active on boot and by going into the sound preferences you can choose which to use from the drop-down list...

Also your graphics, after install it will let you know if their are any additional drivers to install like Ati/Nvidia graphics drivers, just agree and it should install the best one for your system...

---

