---
title: "8.10 server hangs during boot at Configuring Network Interfaces"
date: 2009-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by clindner on 2009-02-15
I have a new installation that is hanging at this point in the boot process.  I posted this over in the server forum, but I guess that wasn't the right place, didn't get any helpful responses.

If I do a Control-Alt-Delete as it is hung up, it reports:

init: rcS main process killed by TERM signal
init: rc6 main process killed by TERM signal


I have manually, and with Webmin, changed the IP assignment back and forth from static to DHCP. I haven't installed much of anything, but something I installed (OpenSSH?) must be screwing up my machine, because it was booting just fine before.  I am able to access the box just fine using SSH after it has completed bootup.

I have not installed anything else... No GUI, or anything like that.

I have to get this resolved, as I will have this box running unattended, and it will not finish booting without issuing the term signal.... Argh!

Thanks for any help. I have searched and searched, and haven't seen a similar issue.  I am hoping to figure out how to figure out what is hanging, presumably during the rc.s.d and rc.6.d scripts?

---

### Post by clindner on 2009-02-15
If anyone could tell me another forum to ask this question, I would really appreciate it!

I really need to figure this out if possible.

I have been surprised that no one has responded...

---

### Post by clindner on 2009-02-15
Well, apparently it was trying to remount some network drives that I had used previously, and was not aware that they were trying to be remounted because they did not get mounted when I terminated the mounting process with the Ctrl-Alt-Del.

I hit Enter one time when it was hung, and realized that it was being prompted to enter a password or something, strange because no password is needed.

Anyway, this is resolved.

---

