---
title: "Remove Windows restore partition option from grub"
date: 2011-01-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-03
I need to remove the option to boot to the restore partition ("Windows NT/2000/XP (on /dev/sda2)") in my GRUB boot loader.

For whatever reason, I can't get the commands which generate a gedit text to populate the editor with actual text which I might then edit. 

So I was thinking a terminal command beginning with "sudo chmod -x /etc/grub.d", but I'm not sure about the syntax.  

Thanks in advance for your help,
Scott

---

### Post by blazemore on 2011-01-03
Try
```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-03
Thanks Blazemore.

So that yields, in the terminal:

```
ron@ron-desktop:~$ sudo update-grub
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-27-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-27-generic
Found Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition on /dev/sda1
Found Windows NT/2000/XP on /dev/sda2
done
ron@ron-desktop:~$ 
```

Soooo . . . sudo chmod -x /etc/grub . . . & I'm not sure what comes next.  I don't want to nuke my XP on sda1.  But we got into trouble with the restore partition ("Windows NT ... on /dev/sda2") and I don't want it to be an option on boot.

Thanks, 
Scott

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-03
I found the answer to the blank gedit issue [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1200600").

So, may I, as I similarly did when I removed the memtest from the boot menu, simply remove the text thus: 

```
	chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Windows NT/2000/XP (on /dev/sda2)" {
	insmod fat
	set root='(hd0,2)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 1759-1372
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
```

```
	chainloader +1
}
menuentry  {
	insmod fat
	set root='(hd0,2)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 1759-1372
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
```

And then: sudo update-grub ?

Again, thanks,
Scott

Here, if you need it, is the entire gedit doc for /boot/grub/grub.cfg

```
#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="1"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set d9b30c9e-27c8-4c38-933d-b1b782e22bbe
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set d9b30c9e-27c8-4c38-933d-b1b782e22bbe
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=15
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-27-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,5)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set d9b30c9e-27c8-4c38-933d-b1b782e22bbe
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-27-generic root=/dev/sda5 ro   quiet splash
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-27-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition (on /dev/sda1)" {
	insmod ntfs
	set root='(hd0,1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 6800415e004133fa
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
menuentry "Windows NT/2000/XP (on /dev/sda2)" {
	insmod fat
	set root='(hd0,2)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 1759-1372
	drivemap -s (hd0) ${root}
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

```

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2011-01-03
sks24, it's not the way you are supposed to solve your grub2 problems
don't you see that big warning at the top?

[b]# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#
[/b]

when you screw something up in your grub.cfg your box won't boot up, end of story. Cfg is supposed to be generated from settings and templates listed there so when the operation fails you still have a working cfg file (it's not overwritten by the new, invalid cfg)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-01-03
drs305 has a title tweaks thread, I just turn off osprober after copying the windows boot stanzas to 40_custom.

Total Custom menu:
[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Custom_Menu](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Custom_Menu)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1483827](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1483827)

How to: Create a Customized GRUB2 Screen that is Maintenance Free.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1542338](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1542338)

OR Partial Custom menu:
I used drs305's command to limit ubuntu entries to two, turned off os_prober so it does not look for other systems and totally customized my 40_custom.
includes line to limit display to two, also hiding of windows recovery partition
Grub 2 Title Tweaks Thread -drs305
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1287602](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1287602)
In /etc/default/grub I added this:
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER=true
or
sudo chmod a-x /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober

One way to fix the descriptions is to move the windows entries to 40_custom and edit at will.

Copy the windows entries from this:
gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
Copy them to and edit title:
gksudo gedit /etc/grub.d/40_custom
Then do:
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-03
Thank you for your reply, Vaphell

Yes, I saw the warning, and part of the reason I posted the entire thing was so that people like you could see it, too, because, apparently, [there's a debate about whether one should edit that file]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1200600"), and I wanted others to see it - and that very warning - before they made suggestions as to what I might by way of attaining my goal.  

As to that goal, btw, do you have any suggestions?

Thanks in advance, 
Scott

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2011-01-03
some people are simply used to old grub where you had to edit menu.lst manually and they were extremely unhappy when new grub2 'forced them to jump through the hoops', ie change their habits.

It's ok to do stuff by hand when you are a hardened veteran and you know everything about system configuration and recovery, but grub2 approach with indirect configuration is much better for more noobish users who don't risk hosing their system. Ubuntu being a distro for human beings should be more foolproof, so at least in its case my vote goes to 'don't touch grub.cfg'

Just like oldfred said, customizing other systems can be trivially done by disabling OS probing (which puts every found OS on the list) and moving that to the 'custom' part (40_custom) which is pasted verbatim in the final config file.

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-03
Fantastic.  I want to do the custom menu with the option of access to the regular grub menu with all the recovery options and all the extra kernels.

First off, I suppose I should restore the regular grub menu. 

Given where I'm at, 

```
ron@ron-desktop:~$ sudo update-grub
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-27-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-27-generic
Found Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition on /dev/sda1
Found Windows NT/2000/XP on /dev/sda2
done
ron@ron-desktop:~$
```

what's the easiest way to get back to where I started?  

Then I'll probably need a little hand-holding in at least one area that I can see, but could I get some help with just getting back to the regular grub menu first?  

Thanks,
Scott

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-01-03
> **sks24 said:**
> 
First off, I suppose I should restore the regular grub menu. 

Given where I'm at, 
what's the easiest way to get back to where I started?  

Then I'll probably need a little hand-holding in at least one area that I can see, but could I get some help with just getting back to the regular grub menu first?  


Well, that's one of the few good things about editing grub.cfg. ;-) All you have to do is rerun "sudo update-grub" and you get the default back unless you have edited the scripts in /etc/grub.d or the /etc/default/grub file.

You don't have a listing for memtest86+, but that is probably what you want anyway. So you should be back where you started.

For a general introduction to Grub2, see the "G2-Basics" link in my signature line.

Tell us which way you would like to modify your menu next and we can help. If you know you just want to make a custom menu (easiest), *oldfred* has already provided the links.

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-04
Thank you all for your replies.

Today I attempted to boot to Ubuntu and got the following error message:

"free magic is broken at 0x2eb5fee0: 0x46fb005e"

Then I pressed the "any key," got back to my current three-line grub, and it booted just fine . . . 

I attempted to restore the regular GRUB using the LiveCD,

```
sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt
```

then

```
sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sda
```

and the terminal said it was restored with no errors, but, upon reboot, I had the same three line GRUB I'm now trying to get away from:

```
ron@ron-desktop:~$ sudo update-grub
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-27-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-27-generic
Found Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition on /dev/sda1
Found Windows NT/2000/XP on /dev/sda2
done
ron@ron-desktop:~$
```

I'm thinking the second method using the Live CD listed here will have the same result.  But I'll try it, and, in the meanwhile, maybe somebody will chime in with a method to restore the regular GRUB.

I'm just thinking that, given the "free magic" error I ran into this morning, I probably ought to restore the standard GRUB.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-01-04
I am not familiar with the "free magic" error. If you Google you will know as much about it as I do (more actually ;-) ). Does it appear before or after you select an entry in the Grub menu? 

We also need to clarify terminology. When you refer to 'regular Grub' or 'standard Grub', do you mean Grub legacy?  Grub2 is now the regular *and* standard Grub. I'm not trying to nitpick, we just need to know your intent.

The "grub-install" command tells the MBR where to look for the grub files and rewrites the core.img file, but it does nothing to the Grub2 menu. If you are trying to change the menu the grub-install command won't do it.

Either you or another helper will need to sort out the "magic" error. Once that is done, and everything is working normally, we can either make the custom menuentry for you or I can show you how to hide the 'recovery' option from appearing in the G2 menu.

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-04
Thanks drs305,

I think the "free magic" error had to do with an external drive I had attached to a usb port.  The error hasn't occurred since I've disconnected it.

So I'll take you up on your offer to show me how to hide the 'recovery' option from the G2 menu.

(Not much in Google on that "free magic" error, BTW.  If it pops up again I'll simply reinstall Ubuntu.)    

I'll learn how to do the custom menu with access to the regular grub menu (as described [here]("http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Custom_Menu") - sorry about the confusion) when I install Studio 10.04 on my HP DV1000 later this week.

Again, thanks,
Scott

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-01-04
> **sks24 said:**
> So I'll take you up on your offer to show me how to hide the 'recovery' option from the G2 menu.

If you don't want to see the recovery mode option:
Open the file /etc/default/grub:
```
gksu gedit /etc/default/grub &
```

Disable it by uncommenting (removing the # symbol) this line:
> **[COLOR="DarkRed"]#[/COLOR]**GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_RECOVERY="true"
After saving the file run "sudo update-grub" to make the actual change to the menu.

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-04
I'm sorry: 

The recovery entry I'm trying to remove from GRUB is the one for Windows, in bold here

[INDENT]ron@ron-desktop:~$ sudo update-grub
Generating grub.cfg ...
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-27-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-27-generic
Found Microsoft Windows XP Home Edition on /dev/sda1
Found **Windows NT/2000/XP on /dev/sda2**
done
ron@ron-desktop:~$[/INDENT]

I was able to uncomment the entry for the Linux recovery fairly early on yesterday, when I began work on this issue.  In fact, the reason for this post had to do with the fact that there's no option to uncomment that Windows NT entry in "/etc/default/grub," 
and I didn't know where to go next.

Let me just back up and say that, with both my Dad and my friend Ron, what happened was that they booted into these Windows restore partitions and then began the restore process.  Or so I suppose.  In any case, they nuke their GRUB, then call me. 

And so I want to get all Stalin with it: "No GRUB entry, no problem."

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-01-04
```
gksu gedit +139 /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober &
```

Find the section in normal type and add the text in dark red:
> 
if [ -z "${LONGNAME}" ] ; then
LONGNAME="${LABEL}"
fi

[B][COLOR="DarkRed"]# Added to hide sda2 (Windows Recovery)
if [ "${DEVICE}" = "/dev/sda2" ]; then
continue
fi
#End add[/COLOR][/B]


Save the file, and then run "sudo update-grub".

Note: This hides the sda2 partition, not specifically the Windows recovery option.

The G2 files have changed quite a bit in the last 6 months. The above is based on the current version in Lucid and should work on yours as well.

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-01-04
Worked like a charm, drs305:

Thank you all very much, and that for all that you do.  Ubuntu saves me endless suffering over what I have to deal with w/ family and friends who choose to live in Windows, and I'd be dead in the water without you.  

Best,
Scott

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-02-01
Update:  

This machine will no longer boot to Ubuntu.  Four days ago, when it first failed to boot, the last entry on the screen said, "(initramfs)"

But then it booted to the OS once or twice more, but then he called this morning and said that he's getting ("initramfs)" again upon a failed boot.  

Some background: 

I did run into the "free magic is broken at 0x2eb5fee0: 0x46fb005e" error yet again on this machine (eMachines T3882) a few weeks back, and so I just went ahead and restored his Windows from an image - since he couldn't boot to Ubuntu, he was forced to use Windows, and he just doesn't know how to use Windows safely, so it had exploits - and then did a fresh Ubuntu 10.04 install.

So he had a complete dual-boot rebuild before this happened.

However, I edited his boot menu using the method outlined here: 
```
if [ -z "${LONGNAME}" ] ; then
LONGNAME="${LABEL}"
fi

# Added to hide sda2 (Windows Recovery)
if [ "${DEVICE}" = "/dev/sda2" ]; then
continue
fi
#End add
``` 

for this partition structure:  

[INDENT]1 hda1 sda1 (hd0,0) hd0s1 fat 3gb windows
2 hda2 sda2 (hd0,1) hdos2 HPFS/NTFS 42gb windows
5 hda5 sda5 (hd0,4) hd0s5 ext2fs 27gb
6 hda6 sda6 (hd0,5) hd0s6 SWAP 1 GB[/INDENT]

except I changed "sda2" to "sda1" because that's the (Windows recovery) partition I was trying to hide.

Could it be that this "(initramfs)" prompt being present is a function of my editing the boot menu improperly?  I don't have the machine in front of me - I'll go by his house tomorrow afternoon - but maybe I didn't substitute the "sda1" for the "sda2" in both instances in the Gedit edit?  

He can't boot into the Ubuntu recovery partition, either.  Is there some other way I can boot that OS on his machine in such way that I could do a sudo update-grub, restore the default GRUB boot menu, and thereby determine whether my edit is the issue?

It would be great if I could could have a trick or two up my sleeve when I go out there tomorrow.  If one of them works, great.  If not, then I'll just take his machine home with me and do another complete rebuild.

Thanks in advance,
Scott

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-02-01
The edit from Post #16, if done correctly, would not affect the booting of Linux. Something else broke it.

The initramfs error usually means that a path is not correct - that the kernel attempts to boot and fails to find the correct files. Get to the Grub menu (hold down the SHIFT key if necessary).

The following assumes sda5 is still the Ubuntu partition. The easiest solution would be if the following command works from the Grub command prompt. It may or may not succeed, but it's really easy:

```
configfile (hd0,5)/boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

If that doesn't work, then run these commands to set the proper addresses. This should boot linux unless the kernel or system files are corrupted:

```

set prefix=(hd0,5)/boot/grub
set root=(hd0,5)
insmod (hd0,5)/boot/grub/linux.mod
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda5 ro
initrd /initrd.img
boot 
```

If that still generates an initramfs error, try a different kernel. You should be able to see the kernels available with the "ls (hd0,5)/boot" command. Change the linux and initrd commands above to:

```

linux (hd0,5)/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-27-generic root=/dev/sda5 ro
initrd (hd0,5)/boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-27-generic

```
I used the above kernels since these were ones successfully used earlier. Others could be used as well.

If the computer boots, it's possible that the information stored in debconf is still pointing to the wrong device (such as a thumb drive) and that the error was caused by either a new kernel or an update to Grub.

Make sure GRUB points to the sda drive with the first command once you have successfully booted the computer (assuming Ubuntu is on sda):
```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
sudo update-grub
```

Good luck with your friend's computer.

---

### Post by sks24 on 2011-02-18
Thanks so much drs305,

I went through all your steps (and learned ALOT), but, in the end, I simply opted to install 10.10.  Which, BTW, is gorgeous.

These were some of the messages I ran into: 

[INDENT]Your CPU appears to be lacking expected security protections

configfile (hd0,5)/boot/grub/grub.cfg
could not connect to session bus: /bin/dbus-launch terminated without any error message.  

linux /vmlinux root=/dev/sda5 ro
error: file not found

linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda5 ro

could not connect to session bus: /bin/dbus-launch terminated without any error message.  [/INDENT]

You know, the interesting thing to me about Linux/Ubuntu is this: I'll never know everything about it.  And I strongly suspect that no one either does or could.  A quick Google yields 121 million lines of code for this OS.  

It's a universe.  No one can know the universe.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-02-18
Glad you like 10.10.n  :-)

> linux /vmlinu[COLOR="DarkRed"]**x**[/COLOR] root=/dev/sda5 ro

It should be "linu**[COLOR="DarkRed"]z[/COLOR]**
I only point it out for others who might happen across this thread. It's a common typo. As for the other messages, I'm not sure what was going on.

Happy Ubuntu-ing !

---

