---
title: "DNS Keeps Loosing Settings"
date: 2006-12-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2006-12-08
The DNS Server settings I need to use to access the Internet keep getting "lost" from my Networking Gnome GUI interface.  I have to retype them again every time I want to access the internet, update software, etc..  This is really odd because they clearly exist correctly in my /etc/resolve.conf file.

I sit behind a firewall provided by my DSL router. I use static IP address settings behind the firewall to differentiate between my PC and Mac machines (my ISP provides a variable IP address to my router). Furthermore, I do not have this problem with Windows XP or Fedora Core 6.

Does anyone have any suggestions as to what I might do to help keep my DNS Servers settings permanent?

---

### Post by SyvanX on 2006-12-08
> **Tim_Olaguna said:**
> This is really odd because they clearly exist correctly in my **/etc/resolve.conf** file.

I think resolve.conf may be a typo, but just in case, it should be /etc/resolv.conf

If that was a typo, does your resolv.conf file look something like this?
```

$cat /etc/resolv.conf
nameserver 208.67.222.222
```

---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2006-12-08
Oh, duh, that is a typo.  Anyway, yes, my resolv.conf looks like that.  Here it is:

```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 66.133.189.215
nameserver 216.67.192.3

```

---

### Post by SyvanX on 2006-12-08
I'm sorry to say, the only thing I can think of is to try pinging them to make sure they are both active.

```
ping -c 5 66.133.189.215
ping -c 5 216.67.192.3
```

I guess I'm thinking one of them may not be working correctly.  Just for testing you might try adding [OpenDNS]("http://opendns.com/start/") to your resolv.conf instead of your current DNS servers.  You can just temporarily comment out your current ones.

```
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.222.222
```

---

### Post by Tim_Olaguna on 2006-12-08
Oh, I'm sorry.  I guess my description of my problem was unclear.  Those DNS Server addresses of mine work just fine.  They are issued and used by my ISP, frontier.net.

My problem is with my Networking GUI interface seeming to loose them.  If I quit all Internet activity I loose my Internet connection.

For example, this afternoon I booted up (1) Ubuntu then (2) Firefox.  But Firefox could not find ANY websites.  So I checked my Networking Gnome GUI.  The servers listed under the DNS tab were missing.  I typed them in and pressed the [ok] button.  Suddenly Firefox was working just fine, accessing all my requested pages.  I closed the Networking Gui.  

On a hunch, I closed then re-opened Firefox again.  Again it could not find any pages.  So again I opened the Networking GUI.  The DNS Server addresses were again missing!  I had to type them in all over again before Firefox would start working.  Even though the correct addresses are in the /etc/resolv.conf file.

This is weird.  I did not have this problem yesterday.

---

### Post by yamagami on 2006-12-26
I'm having the same problem, and its driving me mad. Everything was fine until this morning when dns stopped working, and when i manually configure the dns settings, they disappear after a short while of no net activity. I've had this happen to me before, but as far as I can remember it just 'fixed' itself at some point (either that or i don't remember what I did last time).
The only different thing in my setup is that I use a windows xp box as my gateway. It has a usb dsl modem connected and it shares the internet connection.

---

### Post by yamagami on 2006-12-26
one more thing: If I RDP to my windows gateway box, open a website that doesn't come up on my linux laptop, I can then get that site on the laptop for a while. In fact, the only way i could get to these forums is by opening the link first on the gateway and only then it was available on the laptop.
GRRRR
Harel

---

