---
title: "16.04 LTS: display always dimmed upon wake up from suspend"
date: 2016-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by donsy on 2016-04-27
This is a problem that has plagued me on my Dell Inspiron 17R ever since 14.04 LTS, but I always thought the next release would fix it: Upon wake up from suspend the display is dimmed to about 65-70% and I have to use the keyboard function keys to bring it up to maximum brightness.

I've tried every combination of settings in Power Manager but nothing seems to work. I even installed xbacklight and tried putting the following script in /usr/lib/pm-utils/sleep.d/ with the name 99zzz so it would execute last. But that didn't work.
```

#!/bin/sh

case "$1" in
    resume)
        xbacklight -set 100
esac

``` 

Does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-27
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2161100](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2161100)

An old thread dealing with 13.04 but it contains some screen-fu that may still work with Xenial. Instructions withing thread are pretty clear, but post back if you need further guidance.

---

### Post by donsy on 2016-04-28
The following command works fine from a terminal window:
```
echo 15 | sudo tee /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
```

but the following script placed in /etc/pm/sleep.d/  does nothing on wake up:
```
#!/bin/bash
case $1 in
    hibernate|suspend)
        # do nothing
    ;;
    thaw|resume)
        echo 15 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness
    ;;
    *) 
    ;;
esac

```

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-28
You are missing <Return> between "bash" and "case"

Also make sure file is executable.

Note that 16.04 handles startup scripts very differently from anything before and old solutions may no longer work.

---

### Post by donsy on 2016-04-29
> **DuckHook said:**
> You are missing <Return> between "bash" and "case"

Also make sure file is executable.

Note that 16.04 handles startup scripts very differently from anything before and old solutions may no longer work.

The executable script did have the <Return> between  "bash" and "case", I made a mistake in copy/paste. I also put a script in /lib/systemd/system-sleep/ and that didn't work either. 

I noticed that if I suspend from the Action Buttons from the panel this does not happen. It only happens when I suspend by closing the lid. What scripts are run by opening and closing the lid on a laptop? Is there something I can put there?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-29
The short answer from me at least is: I don't know.

Xenial has changed things around pretty drastically. Scripts work differently and *systemd* will require me to learn new stuff just to do the old tricks all over again. So what follows is an educated guess:

I assume that suspending deliberately will actually *run* a script and this is why it works as advertised, whereas closing the lid invokes an ACPI system call that isn't being handled properly in your case. It may be your HW, it may be a bug in Xenial. I wouldn't know where to begin.

Perhaps a guru on this forum will see this thread and jump in.

---

