---
title: "10.04 compiz extra &amp; unsupported plugins"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-05-06
Does anyone know how to get the compiz extra and unsupported plugins for Ubuntu 10.04 ? I miss the cool effects.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by shidiksaragih on 2010-05-06
me too...

help us please...... :-(

---

### Post by dE_logics on 2010-05-07
No one knows... oh crap...

---

### Post by Bonster on 2010-05-07
is in the repos, compiz extras

---

### Post by Sef on 2010-05-07
Applications > Ubuntu Software Center > Search: type in Compiz Extras > Click on the install button on the second one: Collection of extra plugins from Open Composting for Compiz

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-05-11
Thanks Sef. That got me about everything except cube Atlantis and snow. But I can live with that.

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-05-12
I went to PPA\Launchpad\Lucid then downloaded the unsupported plugins. everything works great.

---

### Post by whalogreg on 2010-06-10
> **Cpierce said:**
> I went to PPA\Launchpad\Lucid then downloaded the unsupported plugins. everything works great.

Could you elaborate on this?

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-06-14
I assume you already have compiz installed along with the main and extra plugins. 

I went to system>Software sources then to the "other software" tab. click on "add" and then type in "ppa:compiz/ppa" . After that, close evrything out and run your update manager. Then open terminal and type "   	 	 	 	sudo apt-get install compiz-fusion-plugins-unsupported". I rebooted and ran update manager again, and everything worked great. Hope it does for you too.

---

### Post by hollowtd on 2010-06-26
So I got snow and Atlantis to work. Anyone know how to get the freewin and/or 3d to work (with the 3d glasses)? Or does that exist anymore. Everything else unsupported shows up under ccsm. Thanks

---

### Post by hollowtd on 2010-06-27
No ideas at all? Does the freewin plug in for compiz still exist? Thanks

---

### Post by NeverHide on 2010-06-29
> **Cpierce said:**
> I assume you already have compiz installed along with the main and extra plugins. 

I went to system>Software sources then to the "other software" tab. click on "add" and then type in "ppa:compiz/ppa" . After that, close evrything out and run your update manager. Then open terminal and type "                      sudo apt-get install compiz-fusion-plugins-unsupported". I rebooted and ran update manager again, and everything worked great. Hope it does for you too.


i did everything you said and i got Cube Atlantis and Snow and some other options as well in compiz.
The problem is that when a check the check boxes of these options to activate them after 3-5 secs they automatically uncheck...Then i tried to activate them from their menus so i open each effect's options and when i hit the "back" button and go back to compiz menu they are unchecked again....
Anyone has any clues about what's going on??

---

### Post by acatak on 2010-10-27
i get the same error, whats wrong?

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2010-10-28
That happened until I ran updater then rebooted. Once you update, the boxes should stay checked and work. 

Let me know if that fixes it for you.

---

### Post by Bloodstripe16 on 2010-12-13
i did all of this, and still nothing. I'm new to all to this, i  was a windows user. It sucked btw, if anyone wants to know. My brother, who showed me this GREAT operating system, is asleep, tired from programming. SO PLEASE! someone, give a valid response. I'm using Ubuntu 10.04, i want the gears and all that good ****. "draw fire" also looks nice. Everything else look good so, that's that.

---

### Post by mcurran on 2011-12-15
Thanks NeverHide, worked perfectly in Lucid.  You were right on point for that one.

---

