---
title: "10.04 Boot Screen Display Resolution - Encrypted Drive"
date: 2010-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mavicus on 2010-07-16
ASUS G73J (ATI Graphics Card)
ubuntu 10.04 amd64 (sorry if this really belongs in the 64bit forum, but I'm not so sure just yet that it is a 64bit problem)
/boot partition is unencrypted ext4
/ (root) partition is encrypted

I have used this hard drive configuration with 10.04 on several computers and laptops with no screen resolution issues until I set it up on the ASUS G73J.

During bootup, I get the Ubuntu Splash screen, the one with the white and orange progress dots, and as expected, it stops and waits for my password to unencrypt the encrypted partition.

The issue with the ASUS G73J is that the splash image and the prompt for the password appear to be larger than the screen resolution being used during boot, and the splash image is ugly and extends beyond the limits of the display. Everything works fine, it's just ugly.

I have read NUMEROUS webpages and tutorials and such in an effort to fix this. Note: this problem existed BEFORE I installed the restricted drivers for my ATI video card.
Some things I have tried that do not work are:

1. Using startup-manager (does not seem to make ANY difference with resolution, but does seem to affect the grub menu timer if I change that)

2. Manually editing grub.conf and several other related files and changing the boot resolution (usually results in a text warning about vga=### being depreciated and to use "GFX_PAYLOAD" instead, which I have tried as best as I can.)

3. Trying to change the graphic for the splash screen to one that fits a 640x480 resolution, however I am unable to get it changed, and the password box looks to me like a separate entity that would probably not be affected by this anyway.

I can't even get close to getting this fixed. I always either end up with the same blown-up looking password prompt for my encrypted drive, or a similar looking text based version, or a plain terminal looking version.

I suspect the fact that it is using something "extra" for decryption prompt in addition to the normal grub process is what is causing this.

Picture attached of what I see when I boot up. Sorry about the large filesize and glare.

Thanks if anyone can help with this.

---

### Post by alexandrius on 2010-07-16
Bump, i am interested also

---

### Post by Rendrago on 2010-08-05
I have this exact same problem. Anyone have any ideas? I'll keep looking I guess.

---

### Post by mavicus on 2010-09-12
I finally found a couple of websites that claim to have a solution for this.
The only one that worked for me however was the simplest one of the lot.

I have since changed laptops and my problem now applies to nVidia graphics instead of ATI, but had the exact same problem.

Note: In reference to my original post, this does NOT only seem to be a problem with 64bit, as I experienced it with 32bit as well.
It also seems to be a problem not only with the prompt for encrypted drive passwords, but with plymouth vs. ATI and nVidia in general.
I should also note that in the instructions where it tells you to change the resolution to whatever you want, it is possible to choose a resolution that is outside the capabilities of your boot process.
In the event that this should happen, if you have no encryption prompt to deal with, bootup might continue with either a blank screen, graphics distortion.
If you do have an encryption prompt, the boot process might stall on the prompt with a blank screen or graphics distortion, however it will still let you enter your password blindly followed by the enter key and proceed to boot.
On my current machine (sager np8760 with nVidia GTX 285M), I am able to enter 1920x1080 and it works just fine.

The page with the fix is here: [http://www.webupd8.org/2010/03/how-to-get-plymouth-working-with-nvidia.html]("http://www.webupd8.org/2010/03/how-to-get-plymouth-working-with-nvidia.html")

And here is a copy-paste of it:

[COLOR="Green"]Reading the Ubuntu Lucid development forum, I noticed most people can't get the new Plymouth to work with Nvidia proprietary drivers. Some get just some errors, some see just some blue progress bar, etc.

But here is a very easy solution for getting Plymouth working with proprietary Nvidia drivers (and it works in VirtualBox too). Being so easy, I don't understand why they haven't included this tweak in Ubuntu Lucid yet, but I suppose there is a reason behind this so be aware of this before proceeding.

WARNING: Only follow this how-to if you know what you are doing. If you make any mistakes, Ubuntu might not start!


Here is what you have to do to get Plymouth working with proprietary Nvidia drivers:

Step 1: we must edit the /etc/default/grub file.

Open a terminal and paste this:
```

sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```



On line #18, uncomment (uncomment = remove the "#" in front of the line( "#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480" and change the resolution to whatever you want. Here is how it should look:
```

GRUB_GFXMODE=1024x768
```



Step 2: edit the /etc/grub.d/00_header file.
```

sudo gedit /etc/grub.d/00_header
```



And find the following line: "gfxmode=${GRUB_GFXMODE}" (it's line 103 on my computer) and under it, paste this:

```
set gfxpayload=keep
```


Step 3: update Grub 2:

To update the GRUB, simply run the following command:

```
sudo update-grub
```



Once you complete the above steps, restart the computer and you should see the nice Plymouth screen like in the screenshot in the beginning of the post.


Update: if this doesn't work for you or your TTYs stop working see the instructions in THIS comment.[/COLOR]

---

