---
title: "12.04 doesn't boot after nod32 install"
date: 2012-09-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tobeus on 2012-09-19
Hey guys, I'm hoping to see if I can figure this one out rather than just reinstalling Ubuntu, especially since I just got thing where I kind of wanted them.

Info:
My linux/ubuntu experience level:  1-2 years of occasional exposure.  I know how to get around, but might be missing simple info I haven't run across yet.
System:  Intel-based Core2 Duo w/ nVidia GTX 460, 8GB ram.
OS:  Ubuntu 12.04 x64 on multi-os hard drive.

So, tonight, without thinking about what version of Ubuntu I had just upgraded to a couple of weeks ago, I wanted to check out Eset Nod32 for linux after hearing it was pretty good.  I didn't realize it was only rated up to 11.04 and downloaded the trial to give it a whirl.  So, I went through the install steps listed in the quick-start guide and rebooted like I was told.  Now the system gets stuck on boot shortly after the eset daemon initializes.  I now get a couple of strange lines talking about saned disabled, speech-dispatcher disabled, and then about 5 occasions of Starting network connection manager [ok].  Nothing else.  It does not appear to start X nor does it go to a login screen.  It just sits with the last line at Starting network connection manager [ok] and that's it.

However, I AM able to log into the recovery mode and check out the logs (I might have to fight to get them posted here since I'm still learning the command line), edit the filesystem, but I am still pretty new at poking around in there and would like to see if anyone can help guide me through getting this failed install out of here without re-installing the OS.

I have searched around online, but did not find anything useful on other forums about manually removing nod32 from linux, just windows.  I will reinstall as a last resort, but that is not my goal here, so please do not just jump to that conclusion.

Thanks in advance for any guidance you guys can give.

Cheers!

-Tobeus

---

### Post by Tobeus on 2012-09-20
Looks like I have found a way back into my OS for anyone that fell for the same thing I did.  Here is what I had to do to get things going again:

Boot normally until system gets stuck and hit Ctrl+Alt+F1 (or just boot into recovery mode root shell if you would rather do that).  I logged in normally at the new terminal window and checked out the kern.log file in /var/log.  There I found an old nemesis error called ERROR:  ld.so: object 'libesets_pac.so' from /etc/ld.so.preload cannot be preloaded: ignored.

So, I used the following fix from [http://askubuntu.com/questions/148102/problem-after-installation-of-nod32-on-xubuntu-12-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/148102/problem-after-installation-of-nod32-on-xubuntu-12-04) in order to get back to the desktop:

```
sudo vi /etc/ld.so.preload
```and deleted the line with libesets_pac.so
and saved the file using [B]:wq
[/B]
not sure if the next one was necessary or not, but I did it anyway:
```
sudo vi /etc/rc.local
```I added the line **/opt/eset/esets/sbin/esets_daemon** on the line before "exit 0" and saved using **:wq** again.

After a reboot I was able to log in to Ubuntu normally and then ran the NOD32 uninstaller.  After it did its thing and rebooted, I had to remove the line from /etc/rc.local that I had added, saved, and rebooted one more time.

Now everything appears to be back in order, and I wrote a little note to Eset asking them to put a slightly larger warning on the installer package explaining that it is the bringer of death upon newer versions of Ubuntu x64.  Hope this helps someone in the future!

-Tobeus

---

### Post by dexemplos on 2012-11-13
Does somebody know if this issue is case of 32 or 64 bit of xUbuntu?  
Can be described solution used as permanently solution?  Or somebody see some risk of this workaround? 

I am beginner in Ubuntu, sorry for this question if answer is evidently.

---

