---
title: "Maverick Video Hell...   Resolution stuck in 640x480"
date: 2010-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by casparov on 2010-10-14
Hi, Everyone...

I have spent the better part of a day trying to restore my PC, which I desperately need.

Upon upgrading to Meerkat I lost all video (my card is a Nvidia geForce 8400GS (512MB), and, after taking advice from all over, managed to restore the screen to a reasonable resolution w/o desktop effects.

I then tried to install my Nvidia driver according to instructions from Ubuntu, which now indicates I have installed the "Nvidia-current", though the admonition appears that there are no proprietary drivers in use AND the Nvidia-current driver is activated but not in use. 

Further, I attempted to purge the Nvidia driver in an attempt to restore the Xserver(?) Xconf(?) GDM(?)--I just can't remember--it has become a blur.

I am completely lost at this point.  I haven't a single idea how to correct this problem.  I can barely get this post off for the stupidly large resolution, and have run out of energy and patience in forging ahead myself.

I just don't understand why devoted Linux users are persuaded to upgrade and are not warned of the potential disasters.  I basically have no computer, at this point.

Could anyone please help by walking me through a recover process that is VERY basic, and that I can follow step by step.  

Totally exasperated and, after many years w/ Ubuntu, near fed up...  Casp.

Thanks so much for any help.

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-14
A few questions to get started:

You say you upgraded from Lucid to Maverick. Were you running the nVidia drivers on Lucid, and if so, did you install them thru the restricted drivers applet, or some other means?

After the upgrade, were the drivers simply not working or did you attempt to do manual installation or upgrading?

What kind of a display are you using? LCD or tube?

---

### Post by casparov on 2010-10-14
Blue...

Thanks so much for your reply--yours is a good question.  

I had the Nvidia issues that I mentioned (driver activated but not in use, etc.) w/ Lucid.  I had virtually no issues w/ Karmic, so the long-term release of 10.04 was a big disappointment.  I labored diligently to solve Lucid's problems and thought that 10.10 would do it.  No way...  

So that is where I am--I just want to be able to run my PC and cannot do so because Ubuntu sees a legitimate purpose in releasing a booby-trapped OS.

After I upgraded the screen flashed "10.10" then went black.  I am using a Samsung 20" LCD, which is quite healthy, as far as I know.  I got to a basic video setting (through a recovery mode bash command) w/ an okay resolution, but tried to enable desktop effects (because I need them) through the Nvidia-current attempt.  That's when things fell apart again.

So that's where things are...

Thanks so much for reading, replying, and any help forthcoming...    C.

P.S.: An examination through bash of "xrandr" (or something like that) reveals 480x600 as one of two paltry modes.   C.

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-14
Your problem is fairly unusual.

Do you have a /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, and if so could you post the content here?

---

### Post by casparov on 2010-10-14
Blue...

I am sorry for the delay, as I was away.

Below is the content of the config file you requested, but all my xorg.config(s) are backups, failsafes--anything but straight "xorg.conf".  

Rant Warning: I appreciate any an all insight--this is a mess, which I pin directly on Canonical.  Why must an OS require a decently high level of technical expertise to make it run?  Why does Canonical release something that dooms to frustration untold numbers of Nvidia users?  Is it some stupid attempt to drive people to paid support?

Okay, thanks again...  Here is the text from the file...   C.  



# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 260.19.06  (buildmeister@builder101)  Mon Sep 13 07:06:38 PDT 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by casparov on 2010-10-14
Blue...  I have an additional insight...

Upon startup the monitor flashed a message: Could not apply the stored configuration.  X Server does not support the size requested.

(Could have said that to any woman I've dated...)

Casp

---

### Post by Sylslay on 2010-10-14
When You go to System/Administrator and than Drivers,

Try that,
Fist connect Your PC to Internet, than
Activate the drivers not recomeded, reebot PC,

Do the same again and this time activate the right drivrers You need.

It help me some time ago with nvidia fx5900SP
when i swap graphic card from nvidia fx5900XT.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-10-14
I'm using the nouveau drivers here with no problems, I also have other systems using nvidia-common. It looks like your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file wasn't created properly. To make it work, start in recovery mode, and once at the menu select drop to net root. You will be dropped to a root prompt. Remove your current xorg.conf file by typing the following command:

```
rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Next create a new xorg.conf file by typing:

```
nvidia-xconfig
```

Next reboot, by typing at the prompt:

```
reboot
```

---

### Post by casparov on 2010-10-14
Cariboo...

Thank-you for the precise, step-by-step instructions...

The new conf file was created, as you directed.  However, though I can hear the Ubuntu desktop clarion upon rebooting, the screen is entirely black--nothing, at all.

What do I do now?

Thanks so much,    C.

---

### Post by casparov on 2010-10-15
Well...

I've returned to a workable resolution (1600x900) by purging things and following this advice, from Velophile: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592659&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1592659&page=3) 

However, it is still a mystery how to activate Nvidia card functionality to enable desktop effects.

(At this point I am greatly relieved to get the basic video back at a decent resolution.)

C.

---

### Post by ncohea on 2010-10-15
Another good thing to look for is having installed incompatible drivers. For example nvidia-glx or nouveau. In fact, I solved an issue with nVidia drivers 260.19.12 (hot off the press yesterday) by adding the line ```
blacklist nouveau
``` to my /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf

nVIDIA actually has a pretty decent driver out right now, and a decent way to install it is to try the following:

If we have not installed the packages ```
build-essentials linux-source and linux-headers-generic
``` we would like to do so now.

We also want to make sure we do NOT have xserver-xorg-video-nouveau installed. (I tried to uninstall this package before installing the nVidia driver, which unfortunately did not help: I could see in my kernel log that nouveau was loading anyway, hence I blacklisted it, which fixed my issue.)

Finally, we can download our NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-260.19.12.run to the home folder and (print this out if you are going to follow these instructions):

```

sudo stop gdm
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-current
sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-260.19.12.run -a
reboot

```

If the installer won't execute, we might have to chmod u+x NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-260.19.12.run first. To be honest, I don't remember if it comes with execute mods on there or not.

If trying that breaks your installation, you can always rollback by booting from recovery mode or a LiveCD and running

```

sudo ./NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-260.19.12.run --uninstall
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
reboot

```

As a final thought, if you're still having problems with the new driver, you can always post us the contents of /var/log/kern.log and /var/log/Xorg.0.log

People here who are much smarter than me will be able to decipher them for you.

---

### Post by casparov on 2010-10-15
ncohea...

Thank-you for taking the time to relate all that.

It looks promising, and I will try that (perhaps this weekend) and report the result.  (Since I restored decent functionality, I will attempt your latest idea a bit later.)

Great information...     C.

---

