---
title: "(10.04 Lucid Lynx) USB keyboard not working"
date: 2010-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Syd_M on 2010-05-17
Hi! I've got a generic USB keyboard (not wireless) that works perfectly on WinXP, the BIOS and the GRUB boot menu. As soon as Ubuntu 10.04 loads, however, the keyboard stops working. Tried different ports, still nothing. I haven't tested on previous versions of Ubuntu or other Linux distros. A PS/2 keyboard works great on Ubuntu except the one I have is broken, hence why I'm using this USB keyboard. Any ideas on how to fix this? It's the only thing holding me back from leaving Windows for good. :(

lsusb:

> Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

dmesg | grep usb:

> [    0.139627] usbcore: registered new interface driver usbfs
[    0.139655] usbcore: registered new interface driver hub
[    0.139749] usbcore: registered new device driver usb
[    0.327660] usb usb1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    0.328617] usb usb2: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    0.329316] usb usb3: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    0.330028] usb usb4: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[    0.935038] usb 3-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 2
[    6.170290] usb 3-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[   11.171742] usb 3-1: can't set config #1, error -110
[   84.472208] usb 3-1: USB disconnect, address 2
[   85.208048] usb 3-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 3
[  100.688063] usb 3-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 4
[  116.168185] usb 3-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 5
[  131.656053] usb 3-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 6
[  151.716091] usb 4-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 2
[  156.921919] usb 4-1: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[  161.921869] usb 4-1: can't set config #1, error -110
[  162.096108] usb 4-1: USB disconnect, address 2
[  162.832080] usb 4-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 3
[  177.944154] usb 4-1: device descriptor read/64, error -110
[  193.584123] usb 4-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 4
[  208.697025] usb 4-1: device descriptor read/64, error -110
[  224.336257] usb 4-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 5
[  239.449355] usb 4-1: device descriptor read/64, error -110
[  255.088048] usb 4-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 6
[  270.200095] usb 4-1: device descriptor read/64, error -110
[  285.840109] usb 4-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 7
[  300.952122] usb 4-1: device descriptor read/64, error -110
[  316.608191] usb 4-1: new low speed USB device using uhci_hcd and address 8
[  331.724157] usb 4-1: device descriptor read/64, error -110


---

### Post by gijsterbeek on 2010-05-17
I have the exact same problem. Didn't do any updates (I was already running Lucid). The only thing I did prior to my keyboard problem, was a change in my /etc/networking/interfaces that made the router assign a fixed local IP address to my pc. 

I don't think this is the problem, though. Also, I tested my keyboard on another computer (Macbook) and there it works fine. 

After completely reinstalling Lucid from cd, the problem still persists. In the past I've had some success with vacuuming the insides of my computer. USB slots are notorious dust collectors. I'll try it in a few minutes and I'll let you know how it went ;)

---

### Post by gijsterbeek on 2010-05-17
But the keyboard IS working (even without vacuuming). After booting into the desktop, it takes +/- 30 seconds before the mouse starts to work, and +/- 120 seconds before the keyboard works. 

Still annoying, but at least I can browse the internet to find help.

---

### Post by Syd_M on 2010-05-18
No ideas? :(

I broke and bought a USB to PS/2 converter so I can plug this keyboard into the PS/2 port. It works, but if I use the keyboard with a USB port (ie. sans  converter), then same issue: keyboard stops working as soon as Ubuntu loads. While the USB to PS/2 converter I bought works, I still would like to get it working without the converter.

Hope someone has some ideas about a solution. :)

---

### Post by redman5087 on 2010-05-23
same problem

---

### Post by metalxxxfuhrer on 2010-05-23
Same here, and my mouse does the same as well.

---

### Post by codinesh on 2010-06-03
same problem here... if any body find a solution please post it her e or mail me at [email]codinesh@gmail.com[/email]   thankyou

---

### Post by BF79 on 2010-06-03
having same issue  seems after i updated  i started having keyboard issues  sometimes it works  sometimes it freezes and only way to fix it is to reboot   
it must be something in the X.config  file  thats the only place ive found any sign of keyboard documentation 

running Ubuntu 10.4 amd64  on a dual boot system 
 its weird tho cuz it seems the more i reboot the longer it works each time 
i would have not been able to type this yesterday  and after about 6 reboots im amazed its still working 
it has to be something

---

### Post by vorgusa on 2010-06-15
Same problem here, did anyone ever find a way to fix this?  Does it take you guys a long time to run lsusb too?  I tried updating the kernel and that did not fix the problem either.

---

### Post by Thomaseov on 2010-06-18
Hi guys,
I'm having the same problem on one of my ubuntu boxes, but only the one.  It is an AMD based asus motherboard and the usb controller is Nvidia on it.  What specs do the rest of you have...is this hardware specific?  All the rest of my lucid boxes (6 other cpus) don't have this problem, just this one.  I thought it was the box slowly dying until I saw this thread and remembered all the changes in lucid with HAL and xorg.  Anyone have any news?

Thomas

---

### Post by AgedWarrior on 2010-06-19
Same problem as others using USB keyboard and mouse. I've been using Ubuntu since 6.04 and have never encountered this problem before. This was my 5th attempt to upgrade from 9.10. Initially thought it was because the mouse, keyboard and monitor are shared with an HP G71 laptop via IOGear USB KVM switch. Using PS2 mouse and keyboard works erratically. Attemptimg to run software update manager caused screen to go black and system lock up. This appears to be the most unstable version of Ubuntu I've encountered. I've yet to accomplish anything productive with this version of Ubuntu.
 
Attempting to upgrade to 10.04 from 9.10 on an Intel P4 3.0GHz/Asus P4S800D-X mobo w/ 1GB PC3200 RAM, ATI All-In-Wonder 9600 Series, and Seagate ST350032 0AS (500GB SATA) HDD dual booting WinXP.

---

### Post by dert on 2010-06-23
Hi folks.  The explanation for this phenomenon is an EHCI handoff that died with 10.04.  It was working in previous versions of Ubuntu but the developers left it off with 10.04 and that's somewhat puzzling.  At any rate, the only solution at the present time is in BIOS.  You have to go to your USB settings and Enable the Legacy USB functionality.  If there's any mention of an A64 port emulation, leave that DISABLED or it will shut off all keyboard/mouse functionality...USB and PS2.  Just enable the Legacy functionality with Hi Speed and you should get back your USB and wireless keyboard/mice hardware.

It's a nasty bug, I'll file the appropriate launchpad report.

---

### Post by manoska on 2010-06-28
Hi
  What about a DELL latitude E5500 with no PS2 ports (only USBs, both in laptop and docking station) and no Legacy USB option in BIOS? Any other ideas?
In case it can help (from system info) Ubuntu 10.4 is installed in windows XP 5.1.2600 service pack 3 Build 2600 using VMWare 7.0.0 build-203739.

  Thanks
Manolis

---

### Post by manoska on 2010-06-28
>>>> correction
upgraded BIOS from A11 to A15 and found a legacy USB option which is checked by default.
(don't know if I had missed it or if it appeared with the upgrade)

Nevertheless the problem is still there, I am using windows normally and everytime I click on the VMware window trying to log in the keyboard numlock switches off and keyboard seesm to die.
Keyboard is USB Fujitsu Siemens & attached in USB port of DELL E Series standard port replicator (452-10767 CY640 - 220 Votls)

Thanks
Manollis

---

### Post by ravenswylde on 2010-06-29
> **dert said:**
> At any rate, the only solution at the present time is in BIOS.  You have to go to your USB settings and Enable the Legacy USB functionality.  If there's any mention of an A64 port emulation, leave that DISABLED or it will shut off all keyboard/mouse functionality...USB and PS2.  Just enable the Legacy functionality with Hi Speed and you should get back your USB and wireless keyboard/mice hardware.

It's a nasty bug, I'll file the appropriate launchpad report.
Add me to the list of people with this problem.  Boot takes about 4-5 minutes.  I have a dual-boot system; at the choice of operating systems, keyboard works fine;  after choosing Ubuntu, keyboard/mouse/external drive (all of which are USB devices) die - then sloooooowly get detected after a period of several minutes.

I can confirm that my BIOS has legacy USB functionality enabled (always did) and there are no mentions of 'A64 port emulation'.  Any other ideas for a fix?  It's not a show-stopper, but it is annoying for Ubuntu to take longer to boot than Windoze...

---

### Post by dert on 2010-06-30
I think the key problem we were taking a stab at here in this thread was just the USB keyboard not working at all.  I can't speak to VMWare settings going wonky, that's almost certainly a VMWare issue where there's been a disconnect between those developers and Ubunutu 10.04.  I can also confirm the boot process went from hasty to laggy with 10.04 but that isn't USB related, it's an issue (perhaps your debug level isn't set properly to see this) with a "mounting none at /dev failed" error in the background.  It times out and BOINK...you boot speedy again.

Now that I've had some time to play with these issues for a bit, I'm tempted to point all of these issues to a fatal fault somewhere in the hardware mount routines.  I don't think it's just USB or just a ghost /dev device or a cd/dvd whatever device causing all these issues.  My guess now is a very poorly scripted unmount process during the upgrade from rev X to rev 10.04 that prevented the upgrade from properly scanning for and including previously detected hardware in the new OS version.  There are most likely several ghost and conflicting devices now (only so many IRQ, even in new boxes) and that's not easily fixed.  My bet is -  it's killed hundreds if not thousands of PCs in the process too.

I don't think there's an easy patch or fix for this issue.  I'll bet you dollars to donuts a clean install is the only fix.  I'm loathe to do that....I've spent literally since Xmas FINALLY getting my system just the way I liked it and then this...I'm never upgrading again.  I'll wait until the next time I need a clean install and THEN upgrade.  In any case, here I am in need of a clean install.  What I'll do is perform that prior to this Monday and post my results for you guys.  If I get back a solid wireless/USB system with no other hardware issues and a nice, fast boot...you'll hear it here first.

---

### Post by jaccall on 2010-08-11
Hi I have similar issue. My home system works flawlessly with USB keyboard on Lucid. But on my work system, which is a very similar config to home, whether I use a hard wire USB or a cordless Logitech, the keyboard regularly stops working...BUT...the weird thing is if I focus on another app, even just a terminal window, it works PERFECTLY again without the need to reboot!?!??!!? Any one got any ideas?

---

### Post by nrobidoux on 2010-08-24
Clean Linux Mint install, updated as of this morning, USB MS Natural Elite with which I've never had issues (including an heavily used Ubuntu 9.10 install) suddenly skips key presses, especially if I pause in my typing.

In other words, I confirm the bug.

---

### Post by gijsterbeek on 2010-09-23
> **nrobidoux said:**
> suddenly skips key presses
4 weeks late, but still: It looks like this is another bug. The symptoms of the EHCI handoff thing are that keyboard (and/or mouse) do not initialize at all after booting or at least come to life minutes after booting. If they start, they keep working ok. 

Did you test whether your keyboard performed properly on another computer? 

Skipping key presses is mostly caused by dirt / crumbs between the contact points underneath a key. Did someone eat cookies over it?

---

### Post by aniruddha on 2010-09-27
I can confirm this problem persists with my USB Logitech MX518 mouse and USB Microsoft keyboard. I recently upgraded to kernel 2.6.34 (I think was the number, can't really check as I am unable to boot into Ubuntu due to no mouse/keyboard. At any rate I installed and upgraded on a ASUS mobo based desktop). Am running Lucid 64bit. Has there been updates on how exactly to tackle this bug (if it indeed it is a bug?) 

Many thanks all.

---

### Post by aniruddha on 2010-09-30
bump?

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-11
I have this problem whenever I use a removable USB device, flash drive, camera external hard drive, whatever.  When I reboot my machine it takes an age for the USB keyboard & mouse to come alive.  The onlysolution I have is to shut down the mchine, power it off with the switch on the back, unplug & replug the USB keyb, mouse & printer & turn everything back on again.  A fresh maverick install has made things worse, killing the keyb & mouse entirely.  I have to force a shutdown & do all the un/plugging.  So now I can't even get an error log.  Before this development the error included such stuff as unable to enumerate....& read/64 error -110.
Can anyone help?  I really like Ubuntu & use it for all my real world stuff & this issue is really putting me off.  It seemed to manifest from nowhere a few weeks ago in Lucid (2.6.32.21 to 25 kernels).  I tried a clean install of Lucid at the time & that didn't help.
I'm dual booting windows xp pro & there are no problems there.
I've thought about trying a different flavour of Linux, but I don't know if that will help.
It appears that this is a common problem but I haven't found a fix so far.  Legacy is enabled.

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-12
This seems to have worked for me:

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-usb-stops-working-problem-in-ubuntu.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-fix-usb-stops-working-problem-in-ubuntu.html)

I probably need to tax my system a little more, maybe do a backup to my EHD & such like, before being certain, but it looks good so far. :)

or maybe it was changing usb ports.  Although that hasn't worked when I've tried it before now.  H'mmmmm

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-13
Sit rep:

The problem occurred again after another clean install of Maverick.  I've tried the ubuntu geek fix again & that seems to be working, for now.
This has got my head properly messed up.  I'm a newbie, I don't think I can take this :).

---

### Post by donchichi on 2010-10-13
I have the same problem in 10.10 : 

dmesg
[  160.584406] usb 2-2: device descriptor read/8, error -110
lsusb
Bus 002 Device 007: ID 0a12:0001 Cambridge Silicon Radio, Ltd Bluetooth Dongle (HCI mode)
Bus 002 Device 006: ID 046d:c517 Logitech, Inc. LX710 Cordless Desktop Laser
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 007: ID 0bda:0158 Realtek Semiconductor Corp. USB 2.0 multicard reader
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

syslog
Oct 13 00:06:00 arifsha-desktop kernel: [  114.592041] usb 2-2: new full speed USB device using ohci_hcd and address 3
Oct 13 00:06:15 arifsha-desktop kernel: [  129.768056] usb 2-2: device descriptor read/64, error -110

Initially my logitech wireless keyboard and mouse didn't work as well. I did some unbind and it worked, however it was not the same for my freeagent drive which is useless 1 TB for now. :)It was working fine in 10.04 though.

The hard disk itself can't be detected by the usb.

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-13
Dude, what's an unbind?

Newbie alert :)

---

### Post by donchichi on 2010-10-13
ok i'm not familiar with this area so take caution: 

in this directory : /sys/bus/usb/drivers

in one of it my keyboard mouse came up as 00000:00:032 you can unbind 00000:00:032 then it will detect it correctly. 

However I don't think that is the permanent solution. What I did was to plug in a ps2 keyboard go to settings and selected my logitech keyboard model and its been working boot after boot now. I can't specifically confirm that the unbind worked. If anyone sees this as harmful please let us know :)

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-13
Sounds a bit scary to me...
I was thinking maybe usb to ps2 converters on my keyb & mouse may solve the problem, but I'm having a bit of a time finding someone to sell me a couple.  (Mainly because I don't do internet shoppery).
I copied a couple of folders from my EHD lastnight after applying the ubuntugeek fix again & everything seems ok up to now.  I think I may need to stress the system a little more though to be sure, possibly with a full backup.  I haven'ttried my camera or a flash drive yet so my optimism is tentative really.

---

### Post by donchichi on 2010-10-13
I have the most stupendous fix ever. My legacy support was on in BIOS (maybe from a much previous version workaround), i turned it off and everything is detected and works fine!

Oct 13 21:33:52 arifsha-desktop kernel: [  120.002153] scsi 9:0:0:0: Direct-Access     Seagate  FreeAgent        102F PQ: 0 ANSI: 4
Oct 13 21:33:59 arifsha-desktop ntfs-3g[2138]: Mounted /dev/sdc1 (Read-Write, label "FreeAgent Drive", NTFS 3.1)

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-13
If it all goes pear shaped later I'll try that one.  I'm up for trying anything to fix this.

---

### Post by Thomaseov on 2010-10-14
> **verymadpip said:**
> Sit rep:

The problem occurred again after another clean install of Maverick.  I've tried the ubuntu geek fix again & that seems to be working, for now.
This has got my head properly messed up.  I'm a newbie, I don't think I can take this :).

verymadpip,

Every time you upgrade your kernel, including the distribution upgrade, you may have to redo the fix.  Grub used to erase the startup parameter tweaks with each new kernel upgrade, and it is probably the same now with grub2.  If the same problem happens again, just go look at the grub line and see if your tweaks are gone, and if so replace them.  I got tired of doing this, and updated my bios which fixed it permanently, which may work for you as well (just make sure you remove the commands you added to your grub line after updating the BIOS).  Remember though that in the event of a powerfailure during BIOS update on a desktop machine (as opposed to laptop) you can make your machine very unhappy.

Good Luck,
Thomas

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-20
Thanks Thomas.
I've just had a kernel update & done a backup to my external hard drive & then restarted my machine, & the problem is there again.  At this point it could have come back due to the update, or maybe it never went away.  I was putting off the backup as that seems to have had something to do with it in some instances.  In my head anyway :) .
If I'm honest I'm loathe to do a bios update as I'm actually a big newb & the whole idea terrifies me.  Especially as it seems like a pretty risky endeavour from what I see about the place.  If you'd like to try & reassure me about that or give me any advice that may help feel free......please :)

Thanks though, I may just have to bite the bullet & do the update.

Pip

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-20
Sit rep:
The alteration I made in grub is still there, even after today's update.
It looks like it wasn't fixed by it.
Scary stuff ahead.

Reading up on it I may be brave & have a go, I found a guide that I can follow.

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-21
Okay, this may be a little off topic, nevertheless...
I've found an update to F9 BIOS.  My question is:  at the moment I have version F6a.  Shouls I look for an F7 version or jump straight to the F9.
Sorry if that a simpleton's question, this is new territory for me.

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-10-21
Sit Rep:

I've done a BIOS update, & things are looking well so far.
I've used a 1Gb flash drive, plugged in & deleted some data from a USB external hard drive, & done a GRsync backup of my home folder to the external hard drive.  No problems with keyboard & mouse up to this point.

I'm not sure whether or not to mark this as solved as I don't know if it will work for everyone.  (Or even if it's a permanent fix for me yet). 

Thanks for the discussion & feedback guys.

Pip

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-11-20
Okay guys the bad news is I still have this problem.  I did a *proper* full backup, not just changing one file & then trying.  I let some stuff build up before doing the backup & presto, back to square one.
I'm pretty sick of this, & don't know what to do next.
Any help would be greatly appreciated, although it's starting to look like the external hard drive that may be the problem.....help!

Pip

---

### Post by Thomaseov on 2010-11-20
> **verymadpip said:**
> Okay guys the bad news is I still have this problem.  I did a *proper* full backup, not just changing one file & then trying.  I let some stuff build up before doing the backup & presto, back to square one.
I'm pretty sick of this, & don't know what to do next.
Any help would be greatly appreciated, although it's starting to look like the external hard drive that may be the problem.....help!

Pip

Hi VMP,
What happened when you did the backup?  Are you having trouble with the mouse and keyboard freezing, the Hard drive failing to be detected, the write failing?

Also, what are the specs of your machine.

Processor
Graphics card
chipset/motherboard
etc.

I've had three hardware related problems with maverick on one machine, 2 of which are fixed, and one triaged by disabling compositing (the wobbly windows stuff).  All 12 other machines are fine...luck of the draw really.  Frustrating though.

I'll help if I can. Time and ability permitting.

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-11-21
Hi Thomas, I'm not at my place right now, but I'll cobble the requested info together & fill you in on the details of what happened when I get there this evening.
Thanks in advance,

VMP (I like that abbreviation :D).

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-11-21
Hi Thomas, these are the machine specs (as far as I can work out at any rate):

667MHz 2 x 1Gb RAM 
Gigabyte GA-EP35-DS3L motherboard
Intel P35 express chipset ICH9 family (I think)
core 2 duo E8400 3GHz processor
Sapphire ATI Radeon HD4870 1Gb graphics card
Seagate 750Gb ATA ST3750840AS Hard Disk (430Gb Ubuntu partition).

The external HD was a Seagate 500Gb Expansion Drive

If there's anything I've not included that may help just tell me.

Backups seemed to complete successfully, again as far as I could tell. I don't know about last night's because I got a bit hacked off & didn't bother checking.

At the moment the issue is: after a backup when I reboot, or cold boot, my machine into Ubuntu (I dual boot XP Pro BTW) the USB keyboard & mouse do not become active for a prolonged period of time.  (Not less than,say, 3 minutes anyway).  This, however, is an improvement on it happening every time I use a removable USB device (camera, flash drive, etc.) & seems to be since I did the BIOS update, so that did help.

I've probably lost those error logs as I've done the turn off the box & unplug & replug all USB devices to fix it for now.  As far as I can remember the errors involve an inability to enumerate USB devices on port blah blah (?) & something about read/64 error -110.

I managed to exchange the external HD for a different make & model so I'll probably have another go at a backup a little later, probably using a different backup app too.

I know it's not really that big a deal, but it is frustrating the hell out of me, although not as much as a recent Debian Squeeze wireless experience (but that's a whole other story).

Thanks again for your efforts, it is appreciated muchly.

VMP

---

### Post by verymadpip on 2010-11-23
Sit rep:

I did another backup last night, using a different external hard drive (WD Passport essential), using GRsync (which is the backup tool I'd been using anyway).

Instead of backing up my entire home directory at once, I created individual backups for documents, pictures, music & videos, as this is the data I'm primarily concerned with preserving.  I rebooted my machine & all went smoothly.

Again, I'm loathe to mark this thread solved as I suspect only time will tell.

Thanks for all the help, I'll keep you informed as to what happens next.

VMP

---

### Post by Solidol on 2011-03-29
same here

---

### Post by quinnten83 on 2011-04-10
same here, only not a keyboard, but my external harddrive with lots and lots of my files on it. Soooo glad I dual boot, but this is far form ideal

---

### Post by Ranko Kohime on 2011-04-10
Didn't read the whole thread, but I had a similar problem, and found my solution, maybe it'll work for some of you:

I have an older AMD box, with 6 USB 2.0 ports (4 rear, 2 motherboard connectors for front panel), and I also have a USB 2.0 expansion card.  The expansion card is bum, and if I plug anything into it, it knocks out ALL my USB ports.  I can access the desktop via VNC, but neither the mouse nor keyboard work, in ANY port.  Disconnecting everything from the expansion card and rebooting fixes it.

The last time this machine ran Windows (more than 4 years previous) the card worked there, although I had no USB 2.0 at all.  (All ports defaulted back to 1.1)

I gotta remove that card one of these days...

---

### Post by crispyrich on 2011-11-14
i have same problem except i lost three hard drives in the last year due to ubuntu and usb!!
i look after multiple machines with tinycore  puppy ubuntu kubuntu unr and windows and am getting bored of this kind of bug!!
its getting more like windows 95 every update!!
i also have a tascam us 144 that will never work in ubuntu but i will not replace it as i like it more than ubuntu so have to dual boot xp , thank god i did as when i updated ubuntu it killed the graphics and wont boot so nearly lost all the bands i had recorded (multitrack mixes)
i will not be so enthusiastic about converting people from windows anymore as i see ubuntu as unreliable.](*,)

---

### Post by dak-AD on 2012-01-08
bump, I had the same problem -- my USB keyboard wouldn't work from the login screen onwards after upgrade to 10.04 lucid.

Turns out the problem was an old fix to make my mouse work. In /etc/X11/xorg.conf I found:

[B]#apparently a work-around that'll make my mouse work?
Section "ServerFlags"
       Option  "AutoAddDevices"        "false"
EndSection[/B]


after commenting this out, my keyboard is recognized again. Oh, and my mouse works, so apparently whatever problems i was having have been fixed.

If anyone else is having a keyboard-refusing-to-work bug after upgrading to 10.04, check you haven't previously fixed a keyboard/mouse problem by disabling AutoAddDevices

---

### Post by pquest on 2012-02-28
I am now having the same problem in 11.10. My keyboard is a G19.

---

