---
title: "Samsung Syncmaster 913v Resolution Problems..."
date: 2008-04-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BuRn_sLuG on 2008-04-05
Hey guys,

Have just installed Ubuntu 7.10 on my parents pc, updated with latest updates. Have installed the nVidia drivers as well as nvidia-settings (used Envy).

Everything is sweet (Ubuntu even picked up my parents HP printer straight off =D), except for the screen resolution. It won't go higher than 1024 x 768 (native is 1280 x 1024), and looks terrible. The screen is a Samsung Syncmaster 913v connected to an nVidia GeForce ti4200 APG 8X through a DSub cable.

Going into nVidia Settings > X Server Display Configuration shows my screen being read as model "Samsung (CRT-1). With the highest resolution available 1152 x 768 (which looks worse than 1024 x 768). 

Going into System > Administration > Screens and Graphics I set my screen model to "LCD  Panel 1280 x 1024". Changing the resolution on that to 1280 x 1024 only makes my desktop bigger (same resolution, but moving the mouse to edges of the screen moves it up and down, if you can imagine [hard to describe I know]).

Any help fixing this would be much appreciated.

Thanks

---

### Post by LaRoza on 2008-04-05
Odd.

Try this:

```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

```

And restart X

Also, make sure you have the correct drivers for your video card.

---

### Post by BuRn_sLuG on 2008-04-06
Tried that, came up with resolutions X wants to use etc.

Enabled ONLY 1280 x 1024, restarted X. Was at 1024 x 768. Rebooted. Same Problem.

Have removed and installed the nVidia driver using Envy, I can see the nVidia logo come up before logging in, but no change really (back to where I was in the first post). Still cannot go higher than 1024 x 768.

Please help guys!

Have attached contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf;

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV28 [GeForce4 Ti 4200 AGP 8x]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	Horizsync	28-64
	Vertrefresh	43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV28 [GeForce4 Ti 4200 AGP 8x]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1280x960"	"1280x854"	"1280x800"	"1280x768"	"1200x800"	"1152x864"	"1152x768"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"640x480"
	EndSubSection
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection"

Any help to get this fixed ASAP would be appreciated. My parents were running XP before and it did not have this problem, and they are starting to get bad vibes towards Ubuntu (cannot see why it is better if it even has problems with screen resolution). I'd really rather not go back to XP for these guys.

Thanks

---

### Post by Butthead on 2008-04-06
Hmm, are you running the Nvidia Settings utility as root? :confused:

If using the KDE desktop (like me), type in "kdesu nvidia-settings" (without quote marks, of course!) in the run command box under KDE main menu.  Screen resolutions settings made should stick on reboot now.

Someone else (besides me) who uses the Gnome desktop will have to give you the command on how to launch sudo using the Gnome graphical interface. :(

---

