---
title: ".ogg files skipping in Ubuntu, but not in Windows...?"
date: 2011-01-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ram2500 on 2011-01-18
Hello all,

I have noticed that my music, which is all in .ogg format, is skipping every once in a while in Ubuntu, but not in Windows (I use Banshee in Ubuntu; Winamp for when I use Windows). My whole music collection isn't skipping entirely--that is, not every music file has this problem. However, the ones that do, the music file skips like a scratched CD for 1-2 seconds. The same music file doesn't do this at all when played with Winamp in Windows. Are my music files corrupted? What is going on? None of the music files were like this before (with the skipping), but for some reason, the skipping occurs only in Ubuntu, not Windows/Winamp. Not every music file has this happening, but some of them do.

I have been thinking about converting all my music files to .mp3, or re-converting the files as .ogg as another copy, will this help???

---

### Post by veggen on 2011-01-18
If any player plays them without problems, then the files are good. The fact that you only have issues in Ubuntu means it's about the library used for decoding. Unfortunately, I can't help you any further... You might start by discovering what library are you currently using in Ubuntu and if there's a newer version or a better alternative...

---

### Post by Vigh on 2011-01-18
Try disabling visualizations in the media player. Disabling it should improve playback performance. Has for me in the past.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-01-18
Try using VLC player.  I've read that it installs its own codecs.  So, if it plays the files OK, it's a codec problem with the other media players.

---

### Post by ram2500 on 2011-01-18
Hello--

I do not have visualizations running while I use the media player (it's distracting). However, I have Ubuntu 10.10, which is the latest and greatest so far, and it automatically updates. How would I know if the ogg format library is up-to-date? 

Anyone know the specific reason why Ubuntu/Banshee is having trouble with the specific .ogg music files, yet Windows/Winamp does not have the annoying skipping sound with the same "problematic" music files?

I have an MP3 player that plays back .ogg files. On my way to work this morning, I played, out of curiosity, a "problematic" music file. No skipping. My truck (see little icon) doesn't have a fancy audio system (all factory :p), but there was NO skipping, and it played well. Yet, my computer, with an audio card and the equalizer enabled in the media player, will have trouble with the music file when played in Ubuntu.

---

### Post by sydbat on 2011-01-18
As suggested, try another media player in Ubuntu. It is most likely to be something in Banshee that is causing the skips (like the equalizer and/or other options you have enabled). Personally, I like gmusicbrowser...nice, simple, clean.

---

### Post by ram2500 on 2011-01-18
I have tried playing the problematic music files in other players within Ubuntu (Rhythmbox, Totem) and they still skip. Also, note that the music files that are having problems skip in the same area, every time, as if the file was damaged. But, it does not skip in Windows/Winamp. 

I really don't want to have to find all of my CDs and re-rip all 800+ of my music due to possible corruption. (My collection consists strictly of oldies, country and classic rock) -- I use my computer as a "stereo" and almost always play music when I am working on the computer. 

I must say that the music files are stored on an NTFS partition shared between Ubuntu and Windows. I don't know if this is a possible problem, so I am going to move the files onto Ubuntu, and make copies for Windows and move them into a folder within my Windows' system folder, and THEN format the partition as ext4. I'm thinking that the NTFS partition, being that it isn't a native filesystem to Ubuntu, could cause some problems. 

Any ideas, suggestions or comments? Does anyone know if my music files are corrupted???

---

### Post by sydbat on 2011-01-19
> **ram2500 said:**
> I have tried playing the problematic music files in other players within Ubuntu (Rhythmbox, Totem) and they still skip. Also, note that the music files that are having problems skip in the same area, every time, as if the file was damaged. But, it does not skip in Windows/Winamp. 

I really don't want to have to find all of my CDs and re-rip all 800+ of my music due to possible corruption. (My collection consists strictly of oldies, country and classic rock) -- I use my computer as a "stereo" and almost always play music when I am working on the computer. 

I must say that the music files are stored on an NTFS partition shared between Ubuntu and Windows. I don't know if this is a possible problem, so I am going to move the files onto Ubuntu, and make copies for Windows and move them into a folder within my Windows' system folder, and THEN format the partition as ext4. **I'm thinking that the NTFS partition, being that it isn't a native filesystem to Ubuntu, could cause some problems.** 

Any ideas, suggestions or comments? Does anyone know if my music files are corrupted???This is very possible. 

I suggest doing a quick test. Take just one CD that has the skipping problem and burn it into your Ubuntu music folder. Then play it. If it still skips, we will have to look at another solution. If it does not, then copying all your music files might just work.

---

### Post by veggen on 2011-01-19
I stand by what I said. It's not a player issue, it's a decoder issue. Try VLC as it uses it's own codecs (unlike others) or try installing a newer/alternative codec.

---

### Post by sydbat on 2011-01-20
I was thinking about this and wondering, how has the OP installed Ubuntu? 

If it is a wubi install, that could explain alot. I have never had a wubi install last longer than a couple of weeks without becoming corrupted. 

If it is a proper install, then I am at a loss. Unless the OP has some software installed / running (like VirtualBox - Google it) that can sometimes do this type of thing.

---

### Post by james_xxx on 2011-01-20
This could also very well be an issue with pulseaudio.

Ram2500, what audio adapter are you using?

(Please post the output for 'lscpi | grep Audio'.)

---

### Post by ram2500 on 2011-01-21
I am using the following:

**00:14.2 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)**

I hope this may enlighten someone who knows about certain chipsets and whether this may cause the problem with the skipping. 

I have a question: Is the file **corrupted or otherwise at fault** if it plays **without skipping** in Windows (under Winamp), but skips under every program in Ubuntu? **It skips in the same spots**, so if I was to rewind to a certain spot that had problems with skipping, **it would skip, every time**. **There is _NO_ skipping in Windows/Winamp.** None whatsoever, not so much as even a hint.

---

### Post by james_xxx on 2011-01-24
I cannot say this with absolute certainty, but my suspicion is that if you get rid of pulseaudio, and configure your system to use alsa instead, your audio problems will be resolved.

However, removing pulseaudio will create other problems for you, if you are using the Gnome desktop. You might want to peruse these forums for some kind of guide on how to go about doing this. Why the decision was made to integrate pulseaudio so tightly with Gnome, I don't know, but I think it was a very bad decision.

If you are using any of the other available desktop environments/window managers, getting rid of pulseaudio should be a fairly simple matter.

I have personally had to give pulseaudio the boot on most of the systems I use, in order to get decent audio. It is OK, when it works. It just so happens that for me, it usually doesn't.

---

