---
title: "[SOLVED] Windows mountpoint changed"
date: 2008-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by baddnady23 on 2008-04-16
Any reason why my windows ntfs drive which has always automounted just fine under the name "disk" suddenly for some reason today automatically changed it's name to "disk-1"?  Any way to revert it back to just "disk"?  here is my fstab file, the same as it has always been...

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=aafd20a3-3415-4427-8db3-061889a39479 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=5ff3d036-4738-4e11-9ba4-083c3a06989e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0

# Floppy Drive (Non Existant)
#/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0

# Windows disk read-only
#/dev/sda1       /media/disk ntfs  nls=utf8,umask=0222  0   0

# Windows R/RW
/dev/sda1       /media/disk ntfs-3g  defaults  0   0

---

### Post by Diabolis on 2008-04-16
routes like this one **/dev/sda1** are determined by the order in which you plug in disks or the order in which are recognized, you can change those routes with **uuid** numbers.

You can see which are the uuids for your disks with this command **blkid**

---

### Post by baddnady23 on 2008-04-16
But i haven't changed the order of anything.  It's all been the same as it always has as far as I know...

---

### Post by Diabolis on 2008-04-16
"disk" is the default name that ubuntu gives to mounted disks, it starts with "disk", a second disk will be "disk-1" an so on. Maybe something got mounted before your windows partition and filled the disk mount point, a flash drive perhaps?

This kind of thing have happened to me when I:
upgrade my system
edit manually fstab
resize/edit partitions
change the order in which I plug in disks
boot with a second disk plugged in already

It also happened something similar when I installed gparted a while ago, I never knew what it was. A good day gparted got upgraded and the error never appeared again. [This is what happened a while ago.]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=515096")

---

