---
title: "ubuntu OS menu is gone, taking with it my gateway to Windows 7. How do I get it back"
date: 2011-05-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wiz2525 on 2011-05-15
Asked by         [James Kelly King]("https://launchpad.net/%7Ejkking")         on 22 hours ago                     
             
                                                       
                            



THIS IS A LONG SERIES OF PROBLEMS GENERATED BY ALLOWING UBUNTU TO INSTALL THE 11.04 VERSION.  I HAD A RESPONSE AND THE SUGGESTIONS ARE GOOD ONES, BUT THE PROBLEM REMAINS, AND LARGELY DUE TO MY IGNORANCE AT VARIOUS STAGES.  PLEASE SEE IF ANY OF THIS BRINGS A SUGGESTION TO MIND, AND TRY TO HELP ME GET BACK MY WINDOWS 7 ACCESS!


I did the upgrade 11.04.  One of the things that had been annoying me  about the ubuntu coexistence on my computer was this menu that kept  growing with every update.  I was doing the next install and some new  things came up which read to me as if the option to get rid of all the  'out of date' listings on that menu was finally available to me!  Yay!   Except two problems came up once the update had rebooted.  My monitor  keeps coming up with this error message about how I need to reset my  monitor back to 1600 X 900 (60 Hz)...EXCEPT THAT I NEVER CHANGED THAT!   Ubuntu did or it has a bug that informs itself the monitor is set on  something other than the 1600X900 setting.  When I have allowed the  entire opening sequence to conclude then I can go to my monitor display  menu (hard wired into the Dell monitor) and scroll through options until  I find the area where this could be reset...except it ALREADY *is* SET  TO 1600X900!  Every time I reboot, this occurs 2 or 3 times.  In  addition, I have had the mouse completely disconnected from the OS on  one occasion and had to reboot yet again. But the thing that pisses me off the most is why the hell did ubuntu  take out the option to select my Windows 7 OS when all I really wanted  it to do is take out the 13 or 14 items that I would not go back and  even consider running , all representing links to older versions of  itself.
 I need to know how to get my Windows back.  I want to work on some  photos I shot during my daughter's college graduation ceremony today,  they are in NEF format, and my Nikon software is installed under Windows  7.  But I never get the option of going into Windows now, and I'm VERY  VERY frustrated.  I am more than willing to remove Ubuntu if necessary,  but I'm afraid I'm going to have to reformat or something...grrrrr!   HELP!

        
               **Related FAQ:**

                                                                     None                                                  
             
                         
         
       
                                    [Eliah Kagan]("https://launchpad.net/%7Edegeneracypressure")          said     21 hours ago:      #1   
    

First, try holding down the shift key while booting. That might give you the boot menu.


TRIED, FAIL.



 If not, then what you are experiencing is a bug (not an intentional  attempt on the part of the Ubuntu developers to deprive you of access to  your Windows system). You can usually fix the problem by reinstalling  GRUB2 to your Master Boot Record ([https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20from%20LiveCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20from%20LiveCD)).  If that doesn't work, please post again. If that doesn't work and you  need immediate access to your Windows system, then rather than properly  fixing the problem, you might try one of the following:
 (1) Manually add an entry for your Windows system ([http://erickoo.wordpress.com/2009/06/14/how-to-add-vista-partition-to-grub-2-ubuntu-9-10-karmic-koala/](http://erickoo.wordpress.com/2009/06/14/how-to-add-vista-partition-to-grub-2-ubuntu-9-10-karmic-koala/) -- those instructions should work even though they were written for a significantly older version of Ubuntu).


PRESENTLY TRYING THIS, BUT... I CANNOT SAVE THE FILE THAT I TYPED IN 'NANO' (?), AS I CANNOT FIND THE COMMAND THAT WILL DO THIS.  I SEE WHERE I CAN CLOSE THE WINDOW, BUT THAT DOES NOT AUTOMATICALLY SAVE THE FILE.  SO, UNFORTUNATELY FOR ME, THIS HAS ALSO SO FAR BEEN A FAIL.


 (2) Boot from your Microsoft Windows installation CD and use the  Recovery Console to install the Windows boot loader to the Master Boot  Record ([http://www.chrisburgess.com.au/reinstalling-or-repairing-the-windows-xp-bootloader/](http://www.chrisburgess.com.au/reinstalling-or-repairing-the-windows-xp-bootloader/)).  This will deprive you of access to your Ubuntu system, but of course  you can restore that later once you have performed the urgent tasks  requiring immediate access to your Windows system.
 



THE FOLLOWING, BEGINNING WITH 'ELIAH' IS MY RESPONSE TO HIM AFTER ATTEMPTING THE VARIOUS SUGGESTIONS HE MADE ABOVE.  



ELIAH - I am trapped in my own box of  ignorance.  I tried various of the suggestions you provided.  As much as  the system allows me to now.  For instance...booting from the Windows  DVD?  Even though the boot priority is to boot from CD/DVD first, it  seems to get locked in the error message about the monitor being set  wrong, as explained below.  After repeating this msg 3 or so times, it  finally will boot to Ubuntu.  Run LiveCD?  Can't, in that I don't have  one, and have run around in circles trying to figure out how to get  Ubuntu to make one.  I am not a greenhorn, ran OS2 as long as it was  viable in my day, but now, you know, just want the computer to work with  the least hassle.  There are too many prgs I need that fall under  Windows realm for me to just go whole hog with Ubuntu.  I haven't done  my homework, however, and just as an experiment, I tried to set up and  install the UFraw...but I can't even figure out how to navigate the  tree.  cd\ gets me to root, but anytime I try to dive back into the  tree, 'downloads\UFraw\UFraw0.18....path is not found.  I have  variously installed cdir and ddir, but I think my next best option is  to figure out how to make a 'LiveCD'.  Since I can't get Windows to boot  from the DVD.  I do appreciate your suggestions, and hope you can  continue to help. I have to go to work tonight and soon am headed back  to bed, but I got up to try a few more things and am still stuck on  square 1.
  

NOW IS THE CONTINUED MESSAGE FROM ELIAH


The problem with the message you're getting about the screen  resolution is most likely a separate issue. I recommend you post a  separate question about that ([https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+addquestion](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+addquestion)).
 "I was doing the next install and some new things came up which read  to me as if the option to get rid of all the 'out of date' listings on  that menu was finally available to me!"
 It's always been possible--and pretty easy--to remove the old entries  from the GRUB menu. I'm not aware of any features in Ubuntu 11.04 that  make it easier. Generally speaking, the best way to remove these entries  is to remove the old kernels images with which they are associated. One  way to do this is in the Computer Janitor. You can find other  techniques by searching Google for "ubuntu remove old kernels" (without  the quotes). If you need help removing old kernels (or, in the unlikely  event that you prefer to keep them but make them not appear in the boot  menu, then with that), I recommend you post a separate question for that  as well.


THIS HAS REALLY SCREWED UP MY COMPUTER.  IF THERE WAS A NON DESTRUCTIVE WAY I WOULD REMOVE UBUNTU, SIMPLY BECAUSE I REALIZE I AM IN OVER MY HEAD, AND AM NOT LIKELY TO WANT TO SPEND THE TIME AND ENERGY NECESSARY TO BECOME EVEN ADEQUATE AT ITS USE.  ANY HELP YOU CAN PROVIDE WITH THESE ISSUES WOULD BE MOST APPRECIATED.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-05-16
Windows 7 does NOT have a Recovery Console ... that was back in the XP days.  Nor does it come on a CD; it comes only on a DVD.  Thus, that advice completely sent you down the wrong path.  (Sigh ... I wish folks here would STOP giving bad Win7 advice!)

You need a Win7 Install DVD or a Win7 Repair CD.  XP CDs will NOT do the trick.  If you have the Install DVD and you can't get a workable screen, you're basically hosed -- because you can't really run any repairs without being able to see the screen.

IF you don't have any Win7 disks, go to the link below (using another PC) download and burn the proper Win7 Repair CD:

[http://neosmart.net/blog/2009/windows-7-system-repair-discs/]("http://neosmart.net/blog/2009/windows-7-system-repair-discs/")

Once you have that CD ready, I STRONGLY suggest you visit a Windows 7 forum (sevenforums.com is one of the best) and look through their forums.  They have tutorials for how you can use Command Mode with the CD to restore Win7 boot capability.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-05-16
Have you tried opening a terminal and entering this command:
sudo update-grub 

No guarantee, but it should be the first thing you try.

---

### Post by CrushingYourHead on 2011-05-16
If a simple re-install of Grub doesn't work, I would just put in an install disk (any version) and do a quick vanilla install into an unused or low priority partition.

Any new install (not into the W7 partition) has always re-detected my Windows partition when I've messed up grub somehow.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-05-16
I think what you will need to repair this is the ability to boot from something that does NOT use the video settings that Ubuntu is using.  So, booting into a Terminal into Ubuntu is most probably NOT going to do you any good.

Also, v 11.04 got rid of the Gnome desktop by default, so you would need someone to tell you HOW to get into a Terminal Mode using the new Unity.

Booting from a Win7 Repair CD (which I already suggested) bypasses the Ubuntu video settings entirely -- and should allow you to get Win7 boot capability back.

Once you have a working PC again, you can move forward to restore access to Ubuntu.

---

