---
title: "13.10 Saucy Salamander - broken selecting and clicking"
date: 2014-07-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by maciejka45 on 2014-07-09
Hi,
I have Ubuntu 13.10 Saucy Salamander at my Asus laptop (as second system - first is windows 7). I think, after update about week ago, I can not normally select any text or clicking. Examples:
* I try to select code in text editor or in Firefox browser and selecting is "jumping" - I got text from other place or only half of wanted fragment;
* I try to open new tab in Firefox browser (by plus button) or open link in new tab (by left Ctrl + left mouse click) - I got result x2/3 (opened tabs);
* I try to end bugged selecting text and I move mouse little pixels to up and text is moving to another fragment of text and I can not use Ctrl+Z, so I have crashed text;
* I try to open program from left Ubuntu bar (by click it) - sometimes I got x2 opened;
* I try to unselect input "select" at web pages and system - I can not to unselect (one click is click x2, so I got unselected and then selected back).

For now, I have no possibility to update to ubuntu 14, because slow internet connection with download limit (so I could do it in August).

I think, I do not downloaded any virus - only images and one wordpress plugin zip package. At windows 7 I have no problems, but for web coding I prefer Ubuntu.
If you could help me, please write me, what tests should I do (for installed applications etc.). I am really new in Ubuntu (maybe just about two/three months), but I like it for work.
If I should give more informations, please write me, what infos are needed. Or maybe I will try to do short video.

Thanks you in advance for help!
Greetings, Matthias

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2014-07-09
Sounds like bad mouse buttons. A single click is sometimes changed into a double click and when dragging something it may be suddenly released. The reason Windows doesn't show this behaviour could be that Windows may filter very short mouse button releases out of the signal. I haven't found a setting in Ubuntu for the same effect.

---

### Post by maciejka45 on 2014-07-09
> **Impavidus said:**
> Sounds like bad mouse buttons. A single click is sometimes changed into a double click and when dragging something it may be suddenly released. The reason Windows doesn't show this behaviour could be that Windows may filter very short mouse button releases out of the signal. I haven't found a setting in Ubuntu for the same effect.

Ah yes! Maybe some updates changed my "click time" back! I changed it after fresh install of Ubuntu (also because repeated clicks), but now I forgot about that. Thanks for reminder, I will check it when I will be on Ubuntu and I will give reply.

---

