---
title: "Problems w/Permissions on NTFS External Drive"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rlj1965 on 2008-10-26
1) Using Hardy 8.04 since January and very happy with it. I just recently encountered a problem with the permissions on my Seagate 500gb external drive (NTFS). 

Here is what happened... 

I keep all of my music, video and critical documents and backups on a Seagate 500gb external drive (NTFS). Having been a Windows user up until last January, I learned the value of keeping my important stuff on an external drive. I have this drive connected under Hardy and all was fine. I as well as other users on the machine could access the drive with read & write permissions. If I remember correctly, since I am the primary administrator, I was the owner of the drive.  
 
Well, this past Friday I took the two little ones out for a Halloween hayride and left my PC logged on as me (administrator). My teenage son was using the machine and somehow mucked up the permissions on the external drive.

When I right click on the drive or any file in it, it now appears that ownership of the drive belongs to root. I keep all of my music, movies and critical data on there, so something as simple as editing a track id3 tag or document on the drive is not allowed because you need root permission to do that. I have read permission, but not write. How do I change my permissions back to the way they were where any user on the machine (especially me) is able to read/write to this drive??? Is there a chmod/chown command to fix this?

Here is what my Fstab looks like:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=d69b06fa-7251-4fa0-b04f-b8506b9362c7 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=f3102359-1d86-4fbf-beb4-ca21ba04a0bf none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdf1 /media/Media ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0

I do have ntfs-3g, ntfs-config and Fuse installed and using the NTFS Config Utility has not helped to fix this.

2) As a second question to this post, how do I encrypt a given folder on this device so that it requires a password to read/write?

Thanks in advance for any assistance.

rlj1965

---

### Post by MoLE on 2008-10-31
I assume that /dev/sdf1 is your external drive.  What you will need to do is edit your fstab file to comment out the /dev/sdf1 line, unplug the drive from your PC and reboot.

Then re-attach the drive to your PC.  You haven't mentioned the interface, but I assume the drive is in a USB caddy.

Ubuntu should then auto-mount the drive with appropriate permissions

---

### Post by rlj1965 on 2008-11-01
> **MoLE said:**
> I assume that /dev/sdf1 is your external drive.  What you will need to do is edit your fstab file to comment out the /dev/sdf1 line, unplug the drive from your PC and reboot.

Then re-attach the drive to your PC.  You haven't mentioned the interface, but I assume the drive is in a USB caddy.

Ubuntu should then auto-mount the drive with appropriate permissions


This worked I think. Although when I right click on the drive to see properties and check permissions it says I am unable to view permissions for this drive. I can however edit tags on my mp3's and save them, so I must have read/write permissions.

Thanks!

---

