---
title: "13.10 does not shutdown/restart gracefully"
date: 2014-03-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-03-19
Hi,
I have a clean (not an upgrade) installation of 13.10 and it does not shutdown gracefully. i.e. a gedit session closes without asking to save and loses edits.
What could be wrong?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-03-19
Are you saying that Gedit is crashing at unexpected times?
Or are you saying that Gedit is mysteriously losing data when you try to shutdown/restart your system?
Or are you saying that your system mysteriously powers off at unexpected times?

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-03-20
I start gedit (for the sake of being an example) type a few things, and then before saving, I click Shutdown (or Restart) from system menu (Top-right corner). I expect a dialogue to pop, asking me if I wanted to save changes, discard or cancel. Nothing. System shuts down / restarts ungracefully and obviously losing the edits in the process.

---

### Post by Korkel on 2014-03-20
> **leventaksu said:**
> type a few things, and then before saving, I click Shutdown (or Restart) from system menu (Top-right corner).
You are doing things in gedit and then don't save it but choose to shutdown or reboot your system?

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-03-20
yes. just to demonstrate that it does shut down ungracefully.

---

### Post by westie457 on 2014-03-20
Do you see something like this?

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-03-20
Nope, never.

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-03-25
No ideas anyone?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-03-25
So when you click shutdown, do you get a "Are you sure you want to shutdown" dialog?
Does the system actually shut down? Or does it give you a login prompt instead? Or something different?

Please list the contents of your /var/crash directory.

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-03-25
Yes, I do get the "Goodbye" dialog with two huge buttons for Restart and Shutdown. Upon clicking either of these buttons, system eagerly shuts down without asking any further questions. If I had clicked "shutdown" then the system powers down; if I had clicked "Restart" then the PC restarts.
Nothing in the /var/crash

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-04-03
Looks like no one has a clue on that. Any suggestions on where else I can ask about this?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2014-04-03
The problem is that we cannot reproduce the behavior.
If we could, we would have suggestions for you.

But no combination of settings or versions that I have tried disables gedit's offer to save files upon closing.
Lacking a better alternative, I would try reinstalling the application.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-04-03
Does it happen only with gedit or with other applications ?

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-04-03
It is nothing to do specifically with gedit. Gedit is just an example to simply demonstrate the issue.
Sorry, if I was not clear.
All running programs get terminated ungracefully at shutdown.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-04-04
Would you happen to have another user ? Or could you create one with the same privileges as your current one ? Then see if the problem exists with this different user, thanks.

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-04-04
Good point.
I just added another user with "Administrator" privilege. Same problem with it.
It should not be something to do with user related configuration/settings.
Thanks.

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-04-04
You know, I've been looking around since you started your thread about system wide configs or settings that would handle this feature. All I found were old blog posts related to grub entries. Not sure about the reliability.. I'll try to find them again, but was not convinced it was the proper direction to look at.

---

### Post by leventaksu on 2014-04-04
not sure if it can be anything to do with grub. is there anything like "init" configuration?

---

