---
title: "Adding Screen Resolutions"
date: 2008-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by phildaman46 on 2008-08-11
Is there a way to add screen resolutions in Ubuntu 8.04? I would like to be able to switch to 960x720 resolution. The reason is, when I use Scummvm with hq3x it doesn't fill the screen. My resolution is 1024x768. With hq3x enabled, the game playing is then 960x720 but not filling the screen because I don't have that resolution in Ubuntu. When I'm in Windows XP, I have 960x720 as a option and the screen is filled in Scummvm.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-08-11
Try this:
```
cvt -v 960 720 60.0Hz
```
It will return a Modeline which you can paste into the Monitor section of your xorg.conf (change the '_' to a '@')
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by phildaman46 on 2008-08-11
How do you add it? When I add the resolution and reboot, I get basic graphics with very low resolutions.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-08-11
Did you add them  like in [this guide]("http://humanreadable.nfshost.com/sdeg/xorg_video_sizes.htm")

---

### Post by phildaman46 on 2008-08-11
The guide didn't work. If you want to know, I have a Nvidia Geforce 7900GS video card.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-08-11
Have you installed nvidia-settings?

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-08-11
Just "sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf" and add the resolution to the existing line of resolutions. Don't use it as the first one in line, that is used for your default screen size.

---

### Post by phildaman46 on 2008-08-12
I still can't get it to work. The new resolution doesn't show on the list. Here is how my xorg.conf is:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@yellow)  Thu Jun  5 09:27:12 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Chuntex"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 72.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 130.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7900 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "960x720"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 1024x768_85 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "960x720"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Is this correct?

---

### Post by cdtech on 2008-08-12
Not really. You just need to add to the "Screen" section like I did here and change back what you altered:
--------------------------------------------------------------
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "960x720" **"1024x768" "1440x900" "1920x1440" "1920x1200"**
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

[COLOR="Red"]# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 1024x768_85 +0+0"[/COLOR]
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "TwinView" "0"
Option "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0"
[COLOR="Red"]SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "960x720"
EndSubSection[/COLOR]
EndSection
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Please remove everything in red, you don't need those. You can change the resolution that I added (in bold text) to whatever you want. You could add as many resolution combination's as you want on that line.  The first one listed within that line will be your default screen size.

Hope this helps....

---

### Post by phildaman46 on 2008-08-13
It's not working.

---

