---
title: "[8.04.2] Splash screen halts very early"
date: 2009-02-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rohandhruva on 2009-02-22
Hi,

I am using a fully updated install of Kubuntu 8.04.2 on my Acer TravelMate 3260 laptop. Previously, the boot splash (blue kubuntu with a progress bar) used to last right up to the time kdm was available for logging in. However, from a few days I am noticing that the splash screen "dies" off at "Read files required for booting". After that, all I see is initscripts text scrolling by, no splash. There are no errors or warnings too.

The system itself is working fine, and I experience no other problems. I tried to "sudo dpkg-reconfigure usplash", but that doesn't help. Please tell me how I can get splash back to normal.

Thanks.

---

### Post by fondfire on 2009-04-10
I've also had this problem and I've taken some preliminary looks at /etc/event.d, /etc/initramfs-tools and unpacked /boot/initrd.img-*-generic to see if I could understand the exact problem, with no luck so far (though I'm still looking).  I'd tried reinstalling 'usplash' in the past, with no luck, either.

I've gotten some idea of how the bootsplash screen works, but not as deep an idea as I'd like.  I'm also just learning about [Upstart]("http://upstart.ubuntu.com/"), so that is taking some acclimation, too.

I'll share any results I uncover, but I'm very interested in learning how to fix this.  It's really just an annoyance, but it's less confusing to others who occassionally utilize the computer if everything boots "smoothly" without any strange messages showing-up.

---

### Post by fondfire on 2009-04-10
OK, I finally fixed my problem!  Hope this helps in fixing yours, Rohandhruva.

Turns out my /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume file was out of date.  That file is supposed to contain a RESUME variable that points to ones primary swap device.  For myself, the designation of my swap device (as found in /etc/fstab) had changed some time ago, but never got updated in the initramfs-tools configuration.  So, there's apparently some key moment when the initram needs to know the swap device to continue, and lacking that information, kills the bootsplash screen (and who knows what else).

In any case, run the following commands in the terminal to fix the problem, providing your password, if prompted:

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]sudo awk '$3 == "swap" {
  printf("RESUME=%s\n",$1)
  exit
}' /etc/fstab > /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume
sudo update-initramfs -ck `uname -r`[/FONT][/INDENT]

Then reboot to see if it really worked!

If it works for you, too, let everyone know.  Thanks!

---

### Post by rohandhruva on 2009-04-10
Hi fondfire, that was *excellent* debugging you did there!! I realized that even my swap device was long outdated. I did "mkswap" again, and in the process got a new UUID, with which I updated /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume and fstab manually. Now the splash screen works as intended, and even the bootup feels a bit faster.

Thank you very much :)

---

