---
title: "10 sec. grey screen after BIOS | UbuntuMATE 16.04 32bit"
date: 2017-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by slitpdm on 2017-01-31
Hello Community,

I have the same issue as discussed in this closed thread: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2273230](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2273230)

Is there any solution to this?

Thanks

slitpdm

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-01-31
Have you installed or is this the installer you are booting?

What brand/model system?
What video card/chip?

Most common issue is needing a boot parameter often nomodeset for AMD or nVidia.
 At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
How to add boot parameters,  grub menu after install (also grub when UEFI)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/KernelBootParameters](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/KernelBootParameters)

---

### Post by slitpdm on 2017-01-31
The 16.04.1 MATE is allready installed. When booted from LiveStick there was no such grey frame.

Changing the grub-file at /etc/default/ to "nomodeset" option, doesn't work, it only changes the screen-resolution after the boot. Booting starts only after the grey-screen dissappiers. So for me it looks like this is the grub-menu timing down, but without any displayed option or input-action possible. Pressing the enter-button doesn't cut the time until booting starts. Changing the timout-options in the grub-file in /etc/default/ to "0" has no effect either.

The machine is a Sony Viao Netbook PCG21313M with an Intel Atom N450 2x1.66Ghz, 2GB RAM, with no other video-card or chip. Kernel driver for graphics in use: i915

Thank you for your help so far.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-01-31
So system boots ok, just you get grey screen?

Are you only booting Mate?
Then system will directly boot without showing grub menu, but you may be seeing the 10 countdown to give you time to press a key to get into grub to run recovery mode, memory test or older kernel.
You can change to 3 sec, but I do not suggest 0 sec as then you do not have time to press key to get grub menu in case ever needed.

       sudo nano /etc/default/grub

# this is what I did on my Ubuntu, comment out default 10 sec and added new 3 sec (you can just change default line also)
#GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_TIMEOUT=3


 sudo update-grub

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2017-01-31
If GRUB is not visible, Ubuntu MATE does put up a grey screen for ~10 seconds. It's not really a problem; it shows me that MATE is booting.

---

### Post by slitpdm on 2017-01-31
No, as long as the grey screen is shown, there is no booting. I've played a little bit with the grub-parameters, thereby I got the menu on for 3 seconds and even if I press enter to boot my "only installed" MATE, the background of the grub menu will stay for the annoying 10 seconds and then it boots.
Is there another fallback timeout (for defect hardware maybe; there is a known defect WLAN-Card in the Netbook) inside grub besides the usual ones such as GRUB_TIMEOUT, GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT and GRUB_RECORDFAIL_TIMEOUT? If so, how can I change it?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-01-31
Are you not able to shutdown normally?

I believe grub does set a flag and then if system not normally shutdown always shows grub menu, so you can repair system or boot recovery mode.

Do you have only one install? Or is os-prober finding other installs also.
It should just boot?

---

### Post by slitpdm on 2017-01-31
The system does shutdown normally. And after the 10sec.-grey-screen-timeout the system boots normally too, within 3-5 seconds (SSD).

There is only this 16.04.1 MATE on this machine. I even have disabled the OS-Prober via /etc/default/grub and have done sudo update-grub, without success. Nothing works, this background stays the 10 seconds every time directly after the BIOS-Logo. No errors in the logs either...

---

