---
title: "9.04 is freezing completly"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Archmage on 2009-04-23
Out of the sudden 9.04 is freezing. It seems that working on the harddrive will increase the chance that this is happing. But it seem to be happening anyway.

In the systemlog I notice some strange things:

```

[    1.266152] ata1: SATA max UDMA/133 abar m1024@0xfe7ff800 port 0xfe7ff900 irq 2301
[    1.266155] ata2: SATA max UDMA/133 abar m1024@0xfe7ff800 port 0xfe7ff980 irq 2301
[    1.266158] ata3: SATA max UDMA/133 abar m1024@0xfe7ff800 port 0xfe7ffa00 irq 2301
[    1.266162] ata4: SATA max UDMA/133 abar m1024@0xfe7ff800 port 0xfe7ffa80 irq 2301
[    1.748027] ata1: softreset failed (device not ready)
[    1.748067] ata1: failed due to HW bug, retry pmp=0
[    1.912038] ata1: SATA link up 3.0 Gbps (SStatus 123 SControl 300)
[    1.918379] ata1.00: ATA-7: SAMSUNG HD103UJ, 1AA01113, max UDMA7
[    1.918382] ata1.00: 1953525168 sectors, multi 16: LBA48 NCQ (depth 31/32)
[    1.924802] ata1.00: configured for UDMA/133
[    2.424028] ata2: softreset failed (device not ready)
[    2.424065] ata2: failed due to HW bug, retry pmp=0
[    2.588037] ata2: SATA link up 1.5 Gbps (SStatus 113 SControl 300)
[    2.588764] ata2.00: ATAPI: TSSTcorp CDDVDW SH-S223Q, SB01, max UDMA/100, ATAPI AN
[    2.589714] ata2.00: configured for UDMA/100

```

Kindly note the softreset failed.

Furthermore I got the information that a moudule failed to load when booting, but this disapers to fast.

I'm using ext4 and I'm confused what to do. Especially since I also got a data lost from time to time when this happens.

---

### Post by paradigm2 on 2009-04-23
I hate to say it but ext4 is still kind of experimental and people have been reporting problems with it.  Using it now is a risk and that is why ext3 is the default.

I don't know if it is the cause of your freezes or not but it is highly likely.

---

### Post by dajasc on 2009-04-30
I get those same softreset errors and I'm using ext3.  No one seems to have a clue what is causing those errors.

---

### Post by christoph88 on 2009-04-30
I can verify that it has nothing to do with ext4. I'm also using ext3 and the same problems. I'm not even considering updating/reinstalling untill somebody knows where these errors come from (don't know if this is a good strategy, but I really don't feel like messing around with my system a lot).

When 9.04 first came out I wanted to reinstal it completely, when booting from usb stick and from cd I got this error so.

---

### Post by codeseer on 2009-04-30
The default treatment for freezes in jaunty is to upgrade the kernel. If you are using an Intel chipset for video, then you should also upgrade the graphics drivers.

What does this output:

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by Archmage on 2009-06-23
I fear this isn't the problem. I tried the free one and the restricted one and it didn't change anything. :(

```
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon HD 3200 Graphics
```

---

### Post by Nathan Dial on 2009-06-23
> **dajasc said:**
> I get those same softreset errors and I'm using ext3. No one seems to have a clue what is causing those errors.
  
 Well after digging around some on my own, I have found an idea--no, scratch that, I know *exactly* what is causing those errors.  Here's what I did to find it out: 

[note: the following code snippets don't fix anything, they're just a general-purpose recipe for leveraging linux's open-source nature to gain clues from kernel messages]

```
sudo apt-get install linux-source
cd /usr/src/
sudo tar xvfj linux-source-2.6.28.tar.bz2
``` and then run ```

grep -r 'softreset failure' /usr/src/linux-source-2.6.28/
``` tells me that the offending code is in drivers/ata/ahci.c. Digging deeper shows me that it's a problem with some ATI chips in certain circumstances: 
 ```
        /*
         * Soft reset fails on some ATI chips with IPMS set when PMP
         * is enabled but SATA HDD/ODD is connected to SATA port,
         * do soft reset again to port 0.
         */

```I'm not a kernel hacker, but I know I have an ATI chip, and wikipedia's entry on AHCI tells me that it's the standard for talking to SATA controllers, and that certain ATI chipsets are buggy. This sounds like an open-and-shut case to me.

A further google search for "ahci pmp" (because I didn't know what PMP stood for--Port Multiplier--and I'm considering disabling it altogether from the get-go to get rid of this error) leads me to this: [a kerneltrap commit with a workaround for buggy ATI chipsets.]("http://kerneltrap.org/mailarchive/git-commits-head/2008/6/14/2122314") A detailed examination of the workaround code tells me that this patch, which was submitted on 6/14, has already been applied to the kernel source I'm looking at, and is running in my current kernel (the patch is what contains that comment, and what gives the message that it's retrying with pmp=0.)

I've tried disabling AHCI in my BIOS and passing pci=nomsi to my kernel (suggested in the wikipedia entry on AHCI), but I'm still getting the softreset errors myself. I'm not, however, getting lock-ups or crashes.

So, it could be that there's still a bug in the patch, But I believe that something else entirely is causing your system to hang (are you using any other non-free drivers?) but either way I'm sorry for your data loss and your frustrations. Maybe you can pull the kernel down yourself and find a way to improve on the existing patch?

---

### Post by Archmage on 2009-07-21
I did a test with the Live-CDs. Desktop 9.04 i386 and AMD64, even the latest Alpha 2 of 9.10 i386 and AMD64 have this error messages.

Even when I unplug my harddrive. Than I have this error messages for my SATA-CD only. So this seems not an EXT3 or EXT4 problem. It seems that this is a SATA-Problem.

But since it is happening with the latest Alpha I fear that this wont be fixed in the next Ubuntu version. :(

---

