---
title: "9.04 + ext4 + Wine = Slow?"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-04-24
Is anyone experiencing problems with Wine in Jaunty? I'm using ext4 and whenever I launch wine's configuration, it takes minutes until the gui show up in the screen.

Already installed newer versions of wine and got the same result.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-04-24
> **lovinglinux said:**
> Is anyone experiencing problems with Wine in Jaunty? I'm using ext4 and whenever I launch wine's configuration, it takes minutes until the gui show up in the screen.

Already installed newer versions of wine and got the same result.

Any ideas?

Mine loads in a few seconds.

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-04-24
I ran into this problem before after a fresh install of 8.10. Just hang tight. After a couple cycles of opening and closing WINE programs, programs will open quickly.

I don't exactly know why this is the case, but the problem soon resolves itself over time.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-04-24
> **Kareeser said:**
> I ran into this problem before after a fresh install of 8.10. Just hang tight. After a couple cycles of opening and closing WINE programs, programs will open quickly.

I don't exactly know why this is the case, but the problem soon resolves itself over time.

Thanks. I have installed Steam and it launches fast. I guess is just the config. I have noticed that when you create a new wineprefix, it tkes some time to list all folders in the Z:\ directory. Maybe that's why only the config starts slow. I guess once all the files are scanned and listed, then it should run fast.Tomorrow I will download the games and see if there is any difference from Hardy.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-06
It has been solved. I don't know if the latest updates fixed it or if has something to do with [this](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1148336). Anyways, is loading fast now.

---

### Post by primolarry on 2009-05-13
Hello,

I am having exactly the same problem. Wine used to work fine for me in 8.10, but so far it just doesn't work.

When I run winecfg, it takes like 15,20 seconds to show up. And sometimes I get this error message. Did you get it as well?

[http://img2.imageshack.us/img2/2932/jaunty.png](http://img2.imageshack.us/img2/2932/jaunty.png)

I've tried to install Simcity4, which worked perfectly in 8.10. It didn't even install.

Appart from the python thing, did you change anything so wine would work?

Thanks, regards

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-05-13
> **primolarry said:**
> When I run winecfg, it takes like 15,20 seconds to show up. And sometimes I get this error message. Did you get it as well?

No I didn't. It was just extremely slow.

> **primolarry said:**
> Appart from the python thing, did you change anything so wine would work?

No, Nothing that I'm aware of. But I'm using the latest Wine version, updated through it's own repository.

---

