---
title: "17.10 Gnome and Thunderbird"
date: 2017-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by habana on 2017-11-04
One of my startup applications is Thunderbird. Under Unity (17.04 and previously)  its startup window was located in the top left corner of the active area which is where I want it. Under Gnome (17.10) it starts up in the centre of the active area which I find annoying. If I close Thunderbird and then reopen it, it appears in the top left corner. How do I get it to do that at startup?

Locating the window at  top left has the additional advantage of removing the transparency of the dock and top pane which I  find unattractive.

---

### Post by habana on 2017-11-06
I still haven't fixed this. I thought Thunderbird might be opening before all other processes were complete so added a delay to the start up file. It didn't fix the problem. If I open Thunderbird via a terminal then, providing the terminal is not in the top left corner, Thunderbird will open in the top left corner.

I don't understand the difference between running user/bin/thunderbird via startup (thunderbird.desktop) or via a terminal.

Any ideas anyone?

---

### Post by habana on 2017-11-09
bump

---

### Post by habana on 2017-11-11
nobody?

---

### Post by habana on 2017-11-11
Finally fixed it! I have been playing with Devilspie for a day or so without success. Finally realised Devilspie doesn't work under Wayland so have switched to Xorg. All now exactly as I want it. I have abandoned Wayland and will now mark this as solved.

---

