---
title: "Help with cl interface-C compiler?"
date: 2008-06-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by johnhdsi on 2008-06-24
Hi everyone, I am new to Linux and trying to learn how to use the command line. I have seen this error before when I was installing something else ( I can't remember for the life of me what it was..I've been learning ALOT). It has to deal with a C compiler. I downloaded the Nano command line editor so I could learn about scripts. I read the README file included, it unzipped ( is that how you would express the .tar.gz file opening???), I did a cd to the dir, and when I did ./configure it ran a script then gave me an error, this is what I got

[COLOR="SeaGreen"]john@john:~/nano-2.0.7$ ./configure
checking build system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking host system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking target system type... i686-pc-linux-gnulibc1
checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for gawk... no
checking for mawk... mawk
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output file name... 
configure: error: C compiler cannot create executables
See `config.log' for more details.[/COLOR]




so I did less on config and I get 




[COLOR="SeaGreen"]This file contains any messages produced by compilers while
running configure, to aid debugging if configure makes a mistake.

It was created by GNU nano configure 2.0.7, which was
generated by GNU Autoconf 2.61.  Invocation command line was

  $ ./configure 

## --------- ##
## Platform. ##
## --------- ##

hostname = john
uname -m = i686
uname -r = 2.6.24-19-generic
uname -s = Linux
uname -v = #1 SMP Wed Jun 18 14:43:41 UTC 2008

/usr/bin/uname -p = unknown
/bin/uname -X     = unknown

/bin/arch              = unknown
/usr/bin/arch -k       = unknown
config.log[/COLOR]



so I guess I am wondering what I am doing wrong here. I am at a loss as far if I need something that isn't installed, if I set my system up wrong, or if there is something I need to do in order for the file to compile correctly. Again, I am really new to this so hopefully someone can shed some light on this for me. Thank you in advance, and I appreciate your patience with my noobness.

John

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2008-06-24
As a rule, when you see that "cannot create executables" message, it means you don't have a complete "build system" installed.  Try installing the package "build-essential" ("sudo apt-get install build-essential" via the command line, or use the GUI package manager of your choice.

Lloyd B.

---

