---
title: "16.04 LTS Shut down or restart with Ext. HDD plugged in and mounted?"
date: 2016-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-07
Ubuntu 16.04 LTS. External 500GB HDD USB 3.0. Used strictly for back up of files. When I plug the  external HDD into my tower, it automatically mounts and is usable immediately. Can I leave the external drive plugged in all the time? When I periodically shutdown or restart my PC, do I have to eject the drive before starting the shutdown/restart sequence? When the system reboots, will the external drive automatically mount? In the past I used to have issues with shutting down or restarting my Linux system without ejecting the external HDD but that was quite a while ago. Not sure whether things have improved since then. Thanks for any responses.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-05-07
I have a computer here that has a USB hard drive always connected, so you don't need to remove it. It does not automatically mount unless you add it to fstab of the OS that is booting on the main HDD. Mine is not set up to automount. If you don't do it yourself, the system will unmount it when it shuts down.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2016-05-07
Welcome to the Ubuntu Forums :-)

I have an external drive for backup - like you. I turn it on to backup, unmount it and turn it off after the backup. I think it will last longer that way. Actually I have two backup drives, one of them is kept in another house (safe in case of theft or fire), and I alternate between those backup drives. It is different if you run a backup script automatically every night. Then you don't want to forget to start the backup drive, so it would be better to keep it running all the time (at least when your computer is running). You can have 'a backup of the backup' in another house.

Depending on the configuration, the external drive is mounted or not mounted, when you boot the computer. If you want to be sure, that it is always mounted at the same mount point, it is a good idea to create an entry (a line) in the file **/etc/fstab** to mount the external drive automatically, or manually (mount option noauto). It is best to identify the target partition (on the drive for the backup script) with the UUID like it is done for the root partition '/' and the swap partition in **/etc/fstab**. There are instructions in ```
man mount
``` and ```
man fstab
``` Ask if you find those manual texts difficult. Then you can get an example, that you can match with your computer system.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-05-07
I will add that the one I leave connected is a standard 2.5" drive in an enclosure, and the power is from the USB port, so it comes on with the computer, and shuts off with the computer. It has several OS installed on it.

---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-07
Dennis and Sudodus, thank you both for the quick reply.

---

