---
title: "9.0.4 default root password"
date: 2009-08-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Johnish on 2009-08-05
Is there a default password for root? When I installed ubuntu I don't recall it asking me for a root password. I remember typing in my username, password, and then selecting to automatically login upon bootup.

I'm trying to install a program and I cant create a folder in /etc/ ..another program I need to su but it prompts me for a password which I can't get right.

Thanks for the help.

--Johnish

---

### Post by fballem on 2009-08-05
The root account is not enabled in ubuntu.

All commands that require root access should be done by using sudo. You will use your own password.

I'm assuming that you're coming from a different distro?

---

### Post by snova on 2009-08-05
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo)

---

### Post by Johnish on 2009-08-05
Thanks for the response. 

I'm a windows user for desktops and for servers we use Linux (RedHat) at work although I'm a user of those systems so I never had to do any installs except for when I had installed it on my own years back and configured apache.

Ok so on with this. I typed in su then it prompts me for a password. I typed in my password and it denied authentication. 


--I'll read up on the link that was posted on sudo. Looks like a good read.

---

### Post by kg84 on 2009-08-05
> **Johnish said:**
> Thanks for the response. 

I'm a windows user for desktops and for servers we use Linux (RedHat) at work although I'm a user of those systems so I never had to do any installs except for when I had installed it on my own years back and configured apache.

Ok so on with this. I typed in su then it prompts me for a password. I typed in my password and it denied authentication. 


--I'll read up on the link that was posted on sudo. Looks like a good read.

```
sudo su
```

...will give you full root access after inputting your password. - but it is advised that you do not use this too often ;) 

Always try to use the sudo command.

(Just typing 'su' fails for me as well ;) )

---

### Post by konqui on 2009-08-05
If you want a root password, in terminal type:

sudo su (press enter)
password (press enter)

Then answer the prompt for entering a root password.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2009-08-05
```
sudo su
``` or ```
sudo -i
``` will give you a persistent root prompt.

Otherwise, you can preface individual commands with *sudo* to get root access for that one command.

**Example 1**: ```
sudo cp ~/Desktop/script.sh /etc/init.d/
``` **Example 2**: ```
sudo -i
apt-get update
apt-get install apachetop
apt-get clean
exit
```

---

### Post by Johnish on 2009-08-06
Thanks to everyone for the help. It's very much appreciated.

BTW - so far I love Ubuntu!!! I have this old laptop with a failing HD and Windows would take 10 minutes just to load my profile and log me in. Now Ubuntu is booted and ready to go in a matter of minutes!

---

