---
title: "9.10 Live USB - Login Persistence Help"
date: 2010-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by darrengreer on 2010-01-08
I've completed the creation of a Live USB 9.10 install/configuration.  I'm booting from a 16GB Flash USB now, with just about everything working, audio, video, wireless, etc.  I'd like to remove some of the "live" features of the OS now, to make it more a bootable 9.10 full install.

The first step, is to remove the auto-login feature of the live setup.  I tried setting a password on the ubuntu user, but it still auto-logins.  I've been searching for a couple of days, but have not found a solution yet.  I'm hoping someone on here can point me in the right direction.  Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by Mighty_Joe on 2010-01-08
> **darrengreer said:**
> to make it more a bootable 9.10 full install.

Why not just do a full install?

---

### Post by darrengreer on 2010-01-08
> **Mighty_Joe said:**
> Why not just do a full install?

I actually tried that, on another USB, but I'm having boot issues.  Grub issues I think, not being able to mount the /dev/sdc device.  I'm not sure why...whether the device location /dev/sdb /dev/sdc /dev/sdd (depending on USB port) changes or what...but can't get it to boot post install at all.

---

### Post by darrengreer on 2010-01-08
Would removing the user account solve it?

---

### Post by Mighty_Joe on 2010-01-11
> **darrengreer said:**
> I actually tried that, on another USB, but I'm having boot issues.  Grub issues I think, not being able to mount the /dev/sdc device.  I'm not sure why...whether the device location /dev/sdb /dev/sdc /dev/sdd (depending on USB port) changes or what...but can't get it to boot post install at all.

You have to make sure to install GRUB to the USB drive.  In the last step, where you see a large text area with all your selections, there's a button marked "Advanced".  It will pop up a dialog where you can select where to put GRUB.

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2010-01-11
True you have to put /boot in sba1 lets say and mirror that in advanced. The only thing different is the 16 gig will have full persistance and ext3 on Flash vs. 4gig of persistance
on lets say USB creator or something similar that is in fat32. The 4 gig will boot on its own
stick where the 16 gig will look for HD mbr on update-grub when you upgrade system from
the minimal install off of Live CD. If you have a linux system that you are using for the 16 gig
no big deal when you remove stick and update-grub back to normal boot screen. When you
use on a machine without grub2 say a XP or Vista or 7 machine grub is altered to grub2 and will freak out owner of that machine. Windows chainloads in but still freaks Microsoft users out.
The Flash with 4 gig of persistence and fat32 you can take anywhere as small little OS of Linux
and not use the Home folder.
 Now if you can get 16 gig to use ext3 or ext4 with full persistence and not seek out a mbr on
update-grub which normal updates will do at times then you got a travel stick.
If you have full drive and are using the 16 gig on Home machine it is a great thing, sba1 is/boot
sba2 is / and left over is swap. Maybe 500 meg to 14 gig to 1.5 gig as swap. Or get a bit fancier
and do the /home if you want.
Remember fat32 only handles 4 gig of persistance so do not knock yourself out wondering why the Apps only use 4 gig when making selections.
And use regular install Live CD selecting install with sba or whatever your fdisk -l says your Flash is as install disc in gparted using primary and ext3.

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-01-11
I agree that a full install is probably best for a 16GB flash drive.
An alternate is to use a unetbootin or usb-creator install and make ext3 or ext4 partitions named casper-rw and home-rw. this bypasses the 4GB file size limit for the casper-rw file.

However if you are intent on removing the auto login feature, I'm not sure with 9.10. With older versions you could add your name in Users and Groups then go to Settings/Log in Window/Security and add your user name.

---

