---
title: "11.04 Problems"
date: 2011-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wamooo on 2011-08-11
Hi all, today has been my first time trying out Linux and Ubuntu in the form of Natty Narwhal, and I seem to have run into quite a few problems along the way. 

I installed 11.04 to run alongside Windows 7, and initially everything seemed to be working fine. After rebooting into Windows and then back into Ubuntu however, my top and left side panels of the Unity desktop disappeared. This happens every time I re-log into Ubuntu. I am aware of the ```
unity --reset
``` fix in tty1 that brings the panels back, however it seems unreasonable that I should have to do this each time I log into Ubuntu. 

The second issue is in regards to installing and removing programs. Again, everything was working properly up until the point I rebooted my system. Now however, if I attempt to install or remove a program via the Ubuntu Software Center, I can only click "Install" or "Remove" and hopelessly watch as nothing happens. 
I would greatly appreciate any and all help from anyone at all, as it currently feels like I'm stuck with a bricked device. 

The computer I'm using is freshly built with nothing but Starcraft and Chrome installed on the Windows partition and Chromium on the Ubuntu side. If it helps any, inside the PC is an i5 2500k CPU, Sapphire Radeon HD 6870 VC, and AsRock p67 MB. 

Another thing- prior to the first reboot, I was playing with a few settings in the Login Screen app, and switched the default session (bottom-most option) from Ubuntu (I presume it was, I don't remember) to "User Defined Session". I'm not sure what effect this had if any at all, but now I am unable to unlock the Login Screen Settings window to change any of the settings back.

Thanks for taking the time to read this and help a confused noob !:confused: 
Have a great day!

---

