---
title: "Ubuntu Linux and Maya 8 poor Opengl!!!"
date: 2006-09-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leif3d on 2006-09-28
I searched the forums a bit and found nothing on Ubuntu linux and Maya that was recent or had to do with my problem, so here it goes (as short as I can).

I recently clean installed WindowsXP x64 and Maya 8 x64, I was extremely happy to find out that my scenes where now running about a 10% faster in shaded mode and up to 50% faster in textured mode, compared to Maya 7 on WindowsXP 32bit . 

Then I heard about ubuntu Linux being the most popular distro these days, how easy it is to use, etc, etc...I had tried Fedora 5, but I didn't like it too much, so I was kind of hesitant to go linux ... but because I'm curious and I'm always looking at a way to avoid Windows I decided to give it a try , why?...because of windows instability and slowness...you can really tell after spending time with the Linux interface how bloated Windows is.

Long story short, After I installed Maya 8 64bit on Ubuntu 64bit I was thrilled to see that the interface seemed snappier than Windows ...until I ran the same scene on it ...I was back to Maya7 performance...10% slower in shaded and 50% slower in Textured...I can deal with the 10%...but not with the 50%! ...and not only that! my renders freeze Maya and take more time to render...way more... at least double...

My conclusion is that it has to be a Graphics driver issue for the Display performance...I guess they don't spend the same time on Linux than on Windows to optimize drivers for Professional applications...or it could be that I'm doing something wrong?... but I can't figure out the Rendering Issue! I see it using all 4 cores to render! 

So here are my questions:

-Has anyone worked on the same scene on Maya 8 64bit on WindowsXP X64 and in Linux 64bit (any distro) and found the same problems?

-Could this be a problem with Ubuntu itself, because it's not "officially" supported with Maya?

-Has anyone heard of XGL and Compiz and know if they better Opengl performance...or does someone know something I don't know about the display drivers?

I'm sure I can't be the only guy in the world with this problem . I really don't want to give up...Ubuntu is the best OS I've ever worked on and I really want to make it work with Maya.

Thanks in advance to anyone that helps out! I'm sure it will help the linux community

System specs bellow:

TYAN Thunder K8WE
Opterons 285
2 GB CORSAIR
SilverStone 650W
Nvidia Quadro 4500

---

### Post by arsenic23 on 2006-09-28
Well I can't help you with much here.

But I can tell you that XGL/Compiz is not going to help you.  In fact, depending on your video card, it may slow down or bug your Maya working environment.  XGL/Compiz is just a way to render the desktop in OpenGL.

---

### Post by angkor on 2006-09-28
Maybe a stupid question but I didn't read in your post that you installed the nvidia-driver. Did you?

---

### Post by leif3d on 2006-09-28
There is no such thing as a stupid question :) (that's what my grandma used to say)... but yes...I did install it, this is my current "xorg.conf"

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option          "Buttons"               "7"
 	Option          "ButtonMapping"         "1 2 3 6 7"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
	Driver		"nvidia"
        VendorName "Videocard vendor"
        BoardName "NVIDIA Quadro FX 4500"
	BusID		"PCI:2:0:0"
        Option		"NoLogo"
        Option          "TwinView" "on"
        Option          "MetaModes" "1280x1024,1280x1024"
        Option          "SecondMonitorHorizSync" "30-83"
        Option          "SecondMonitorVertRefresh" "56-76"
        Option          "TwinViewOrientation" "RightOf"   
        Option          "RenderAccel" "true"
        Option          "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
        Option          "ConnectedMonitor"  "DFP,DFP"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"HP L1940"
	Option		"DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-83
        VertRefresh     56-76
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
	Monitor		"HP L1940"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Twinview Configuration"
	Screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
        Option          "Xinerama" "Off"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by leif3d on 2006-09-28
someone in another forum told me to put this option in xorg.conf:

Option          "CIOverlay" "on"

and that helped a bit...but still not 100% speed.

as for the render crashes I made a "tmp" folder in "/usr" and gave it read and write permissions. I also gave these permissions to the "aw" and "/var" folders. now mental ray is at full speed!

any more ideas?!

---

### Post by leif3d on 2006-09-29
NOW FCHECK WONT LOAD IMAGES! the application opens fine but it wont read any images! Stupid Ubuntu![-(

---

### Post by leif3d on 2006-10-06
IT WAS A VIDEO CARD DRIVER ERROR!!!...only use driver 8762!

---

