---
title: "how to upgrade [compile??] kernel"
date: 2010-01-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oospill on 2010-01-13
I noticed that the kernel that came with 9.10 is not as recent as the ones on kernel.org.  I think it would be a fun and educational project to compile my own kernel.

but alas, I have no expertise in said subject.  I've googled and only found one walk-through for 9.10 ([http://blog.avirtualhome.com/2009/11/03/how-to-compile-a-kernel-for-ubuntu-karmic/](http://blog.avirtualhome.com/2009/11/03/how-to-compile-a-kernel-for-ubuntu-karmic/)).  Is this a good link?

anyone have a good link, or a few minutes to post how I should go about this?

thanks to all!
linux rocks.

---

### Post by Ugluk on 2010-01-13
Note that you need more than 3 GB of temporary files while building a kernel (and you have to leave them here to fasten up recompilation); also, security patches come out almost daily, so it would put a certain stress on you to keep the source and the image up-to-date.

---

### Post by falconindy on 2010-01-13
> **Ugluk said:**
> Note that you need more than 3 GB of temporary files while building a kernel (and you have to leave them here to fasten up recompilation); also, security patches come out almost daily, so it would put a certain stress on you to keep the source and the image up-to-date.
Depending on the method used and the degree of bleeding-edge you desire, this may or may not be true.

- The gibberish generated by compiling a raw kernel (not via Ubuntu's git repo) is no more than 1.5gb or so (my disturbingly slim kernel's build directory is less than 600mb). Whether you leave it or delete it has **zero** effect on the next compilation because the dross created is object code from that particular source. It can't and won't be reused for a new kernel build.
- Security patches on stable kernels are semi-monthly at best, unless you're feeding off the kernel devs' personal git repos, which is a poor idea at best.
- Working off the mainline repo (currently 2.6.33-git4) is a completely different animal entirely and requires in depth knowledge of the OS and your hardware. Many drivers will **not** work out of the box (particularly binaries like NVidia's) and require patching in order to work, if they are going to work at all. 
- Things change and/or break every new release, and it's not always a fun experience. For example, Aufs broke on btrfs and Ext4 in kernel 2.6.32, and killed my ability to make backups for a few days while I searched and searched for a fix. The current fix is nothing but a workaround, and requires Aufs developers to "catch up".

@OP: The site you linked is excellent, and results in a very clean build with all of Ubuntu's patches intact. It does, however, require a **lot** more disk space than a vanilla kernel build because you're downloading an entire git repo of kernel source code. It also requires, as I'm sure you've already noticed, a fair bit of manual editing of config files. If you're up for this, go right ahead. It won't let you down. However, knowing what I know now, I would have compiled a vanilla kernel -- it's a much more "generic" educational experience, as you're learning how to compile a kernel; not just a kernel for Ubuntu. There's a ton of tutorials on the web that use make-kpkg, resulting in a .deb for easy install/removal, but use vanilla sources from kernel.org.

General advice: 
- Start with something sane, like recompiling the kernel for the current version. Play around with the config, and figure out what works and what doesn't. Once you get the hang of it, start rolling newer kernels.
- Always keep a vanilla kernel close by in case you find yourself having installed a custom kernel that breaks something horribly or worse: doesn't boot at all.
- Expect to recompile other kernel modules if you had to install them previously to get various hardware working. Wireless drivers, video drivers, and VirtualBox modules are some of the more common items that require compiling for a new kernel.

---

