---
title: "[12.10] Installed fglrx, rebooted, system crashed."
date: 2013-03-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ramidavis on 2013-03-24
Before i begin, this will be a rather long post. Since everyone usually wants the specifics, here they are, up front:
My laptop specs:
HP pavilion dv7-2185dx, with ATI Mobility Radeon HD 4650 graphics
Intel Core 2 Quad CPU Q9000 @ 2.00GHz
6GB RAM

Output of "uname -a":
Linux linux 3.5.0-17-generic #28-Ubuntu SMP Tue Oct 9 19:32:08 UTC 2012 i686 i686 i686 GNU/Linux

32bit desktop install disc used for installation. ("ubuntu-12.10-desktop-i386.iso")
If you need more information, let me know.

Sorry if this seems like a lot to read, but i feel it is better to be as descriptive as possible rather skimp the details.
I started out with Ubuntu 11.04 on my laptop, and i have since done a fresh install of 12.10 wiping out 11.04 .
I tried to install the fglrx driver, which has never given me a problem in the past.
After installing it and rebooting, i am told that the system is running in low graphics mode, and i need to reconfigure my display.
I had no idea how to fix this, as i have never got this error before, so i wiped it out and reinstalled Ubuntu 12.10 .
Now i am sitting here with 12.10 installed again, but not fglrx.
Could i use the older version of fglrx from my 11.04 installation?
I know that ATI has recently dropped support of some cards, but is this the issue?
I certainly hope not, as my laptop is only about 3.5 years old.

I am a backup nut, and stock pile anything i download via apt-get just in case i have need of it some other time.
I still have the .debs i grabbed from /var/cache/apt/archives from 11.04 , and going through them i see i had the following installed in 11.04:
fglrx_2%3a8.840-0ubuntu4_i386.deb , fglrx-amdcccle_2%3a8.840-0ubuntu4_i386.deb

For 12.10, this version got installed:
fglrx_2%3a9.000-0ubuntu3_i386.deb , fglrx-amdcccle_2%3a9.000-0ubuntu3_i386.deb
(I do run "sudo apt-get clean" and the like, but not until i back up the cache folder)

Any ideas what my next move should be?
I know there are open source drivers, but last i heard, they are prone to system slow downs and even increased system heat compared to the ATI drivers.
Any and all help and advice is appreciated, thanks for reading.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-03-24
You should read up on this:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/203232/radeon-hd-2000-3000-4000-on-12-10-quantal-fglrx-legacy-12-6-unsupported-wh](http://askubuntu.com/questions/203232/radeon-hd-2000-3000-4000-on-12-10-quantal-fglrx-legacy-12-6-unsupported-wh)

then look over this:

[https://launchpad.net/~makson96/+archive/fglrx](https://launchpad.net/~makson96/+archive/fglrx)

---

### Post by ramidavis on 2013-03-24
Any idea if the legacy driver work with "xvba-va-driver"?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2013-03-24
I would strongly advise AGAINST the second method shown in the link, as that will forcibly roll back your X-server version which will end up putting your system in a very odd state.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-03-24
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> I would strongly advise AGAINST the second method shown in the link, as that will forcibly roll back your X-server version which will end up putting your system in a very odd state.


I'm not recommending or condemning the information provided in the link.
Simply giving the best information for the OP to see what it would take to get the fglrx drivers working on that card for that kernel.

I do agree that messing with the Xserver could have drawbacks, but at this point, to install the drivers it is the most viable option.

The easy way out of course is to chuck the notion of even installing fglrx and go with the radeon open-source drivers.

---

