---
title: "9.04 very slow all of a sudden...strange icons on panel...firefox slow too"
date: 2009-07-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Linux7 on 2009-07-11
I moved over to Ubuntu from windows on my desktop and laptop when 9.04 came out and everything has been just fantastic.

In the last few weeks my laptop has really slowed down for instance when trying to move hundreds of files with between folders the screen dims and freezes upon selecting the folder.  The cpu history will peg 100%.

Also Firefox is very slow and freezes too after a time and is very sluggish. I can't watch full size videos like from youtube.  They are very choppy.  They would view just fine a few weeks ago.  I went back to the previous kernel but no difference.

During the file transfer attempt the system freezes and when rebooted I see dozens of black icons in the panel area that won't go away.  The error I get when clicking on them is "could not open location 'file:///home/doug......./picturefile.jpg".  And in the same error: "Error stating file 'home/doug......../picturefile.jpg':No such file or directory.

I recreated the directory and no change. These icons are there and stay on the panel after every reboot. I can't reach the "Applications and Places System links to use them and only the error window above pops up."

Any suggestions or what other information I could post to figure out whey system so slow and how to rid the panel of the icons? Remove from panel doesn't work.

This is a Dell D610 (Pentium M) 1.6 GHZ with 2Gs of RAM and a 150GB HD with 50Gs free. Fully upated.

Thanks....

---

