---
title: "22.04 Cannot change preferences when running &quot;sudo gedit&quot;"
date: 2024-03-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xeddog on 2024-03-23
If I run gedit to change some text files, I can change the preferences to suit, and save them.  But when running "sudo gedit", I can see the settings in the fonts and colors tab, but cannot change any of them.  And, all the settings are defaults.  That makes it a little difficult to work with text that is too small, and is white on white.  Any easy way to fix this?

Thanks.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2024-03-23
Not supposed to use sudo with gui apps. You may be saving files with root when they should be your user.

You may be able to use sudo -H

see 
man sudo

> [FONT=monospace][COLOR=#000000]**-H**[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000], [/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]**--set-home**[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000] [/COLOR]
                 Request that the security policy set the HOME environment variable to the home directory specified 
                 by the target user's password database entry.  Depending on the policy, this may be the default be&#8208; 
                 havior.
[/FONT]

you can run (note no space)
sudoedit path/filename

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2024-03-24
Much safer to use **sudoedit filenàme** using the full path to the file!
This will open the file in the simplest cli text-editor, nano by default though that ca  be changed to gedit or any other GUI text editor if you really must in your ~/.bashrc file, allowing you to make changes safely and then save the file. **Always** backup any system file you edit first, just in case!

The use of **sudo gedit **was often a cause of changed file permissions of your personal files in your home folder and could lock you out of the system stopping you logging in; using sudo -H gedit was safer but sudoedit was the  preferred method and remains so.

---

### Post by gezzer2 on 2024-03-24
in a terminal please try.

gedit admin 

gedit will open with the same preferences that have been set by user account ..

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2024-03-24
As ajgreeny writes above, sudoedit is the preferred way to edit files with root permission. It copies the file to a temporary location, runs the text editor with normal permissions, then copies the result back when the text editor is closed. That's more secure than running the text editor as root, as it limits root access to the single file you want to edit.

By default, sudoedit will use the nano text editor. You can change that using the EDITOR environment variable, which you can set in your .bashrc. Some GUI text editors, when one instance is already running, will tell the already running instance to open a new window or tab, then close immediately. This confuses sudoedit. I know mousepad behaves like this and it can be prevented by using the --disable-server option. You may need something similar if you want to use gedit.

If you use gedit with sudo -H, the text editor will use root's settings, which are independent from your own. If you use sudo without -H, it will use your own settings. When you change those settings from a root-owned text editor, the file storing the settings may become root-owned, making it impossible to change those settings when later running the text editor as your normal user. That's why you should be careful running such applications as root. I can't rule out that gedit has become smart enough to notice this problem and refuse to save the new settings. Command line applications are less likely to cause such problems, as they don't attempt the same level of integration. Usually. And sudo may nowadays default to using the -H option, making sudo abuse less dangerous than it was in the past.

Plain text files have no font size or colour; they always display in the text editor's defaults. Other formats may, but the root-owned files you might want to edit are always plain text.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2024-03-24
I can contribute ideas I am experimenting with in various workflows.
I now use Recoll as my main file indexing engine. After indexing the entire desktop (which takes some time on first pass) I can run a Query language in Recoll to find specific file extensions. For example text shows with Query language [ext:txt] and so on.  Search can be narrowed further .. hover cursor over Query language field to view examples. Thereafter click on any Recoll indexed *.txt file and it opens in GEdit as default editor. I am using Recoll as the first stage launcher for various toolchains/workflows where for example the editor might be Sublime Text or any other selected app in one of multiple developed chains. I'm exploring how to add to the "Open With" list on clicking through indexed file.

---

### Post by coley9225 on 2024-03-24
Hello everyone,
I am currently using lubuntu 22.04, fully updated. I don't know if this is normal behavior or not, but I can open a system file in gedit, without using sudo, for instance, 'gedit /etc/fstab', I make any needed changes and save. On my system, I get a notice "saving as root" and a graphical dialog box opens for me to enter my password.

Again, I don't know if this is normal, or if I may have installed something that is causing this to happen. Just something I noticed by accident.

I, personally, have gedit as my prefered editor, but any root files open in nano, which I'm comfortable with using. I could drop to a root prompt and change roots default to gedit, but best to leave /root alone. Your best met, imho, is to try it without sudo and see if it will ask then for a password, or better yet, for the advise already offered.

Good luck

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2024-03-25
@ coley9225
Many system files have permissions allowing read only by all which allow you  as user, to open and read the file and even make edits to it without needing sudo or root permission.
However if you then ask to save those edits you will normally just see a refusal telling you you do not have permission to change the file. Using Xfce I have never seen a dialog box appear asking for a password  in that situation.

Perhaps that is a difference between gedit from gnome and mousepad from Xfce. I haven't used gedit since gnome moved away from the version 2 series; all the versions from upwards have been dreadful for my style of working and other than quick look-see runs i have steered away from gnome and most gnome applications.

---

