---
title: "Re: 12.10 hangs after splash screen (possible X-server problem ?)"
date: 2012-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kenpachiZaraki on 2012-10-30
I am new to ubuntu forums and have made my first post. 
Questions:

-What is the splash screen?

-My problem is that after Grub boots ubuntu 12.10, I am not presented with the user login screen. Instead I get a blank purple screen with no fields. I have to hold the power button in to power of my lappy and then i'll power on again, i might have to repeat this process a few times until I get the user login screen. Its about a 50% success rate?!?! seems weird?!?!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-10-30
@ [kenpachiZaraki]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1749617"): Your post has been moved to its own thread and edited as it is ***not*** the same as the issue outlined in the thread you posted on. Please read all posts in a thread, or at least the first and last half dozen.

'Hijacking' other user's threads is not encouraged and creates confusion for both OP and those attempting to help.

Apart from the heads up, welcome to the forums and good luck with fixing your issue. ;)

BB

---

### Post by kenpachiZaraki on 2012-10-30
@ [ Bucky Ball]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=12326098"): im pretty sure I have the same problem as my computer also hangs after the splash screen (aka ubuntu 12.10 screen before login field are layer on top. Thanks for being thought provoking but did u even read and understand my what I wrote?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-10-30
1) The splash screen is the screen that 'splashes' up at boot.
2a) Try hitting shift after the BIOS 'splash' screen (good example) and that may get you to a menu list.
2b) Try hitting F6 when you are at that purple screen.
2c) Try booting from the LiveCD (the install CD) and installing Boot Repair (you need to be online to do this) and run that. It can also output information on the way things are set up. Post a link to that here.

Try those things and see if you get anywhere. Post back with your progress.

---

### Post by CynicalWalrus on 2012-10-30
I shall try too, as I am having the same problem.

EDIT: Although as far as I can tell, it never reaches the login screen. Is the purple screen distorted? (Offcenter?)

---

### Post by kenpachiZaraki on 2012-11-01
> **CynicalWalrus said:**
> 
Although as far as I can tell, it never reaches the login screen. Is the purple screen distorted? (Offcenter?)

Hey, I only just got home from work. The splash screens resolution is fine. For me it seems like it only loads the bottom layer of the image file for the user login screen (layer - like in photo shop when you lay an image over another image is what i mean when I say layer). Then it hangs.

EDIT: well this morning when I tried to boot up the screen went a little distorted. I had like a pattern of like 12 copies of the login screen each 5cm square up. So strange?!?

---

### Post by kenpachiZaraki on 2012-11-01
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> 1) The splash screen is the screen that 'splashes' up at boot.
2a) Try hitting shift after the BIOS 'splash' screen (good example) and that may get you to a menu list.
2b) Try hitting F6 when you are at that purple screen.
2c) Try booting from the LiveCD (the install CD) and installing Boot Repair (you need to be online to do this) and run that. It can also output information on the way things are set up. Post a link to that here.

Try those things and see if you get anywhere. Post back with your progress.

Hey only just finished work.

The last few times that I have booted my computer, things have run smoothly. My system hasn't given me 'but only a purple screen', I've had the privilege of login fields too. Though as soon as I get my system to hang ill be trying the above steps ASAP.   

Ill also read up about boot repair. I need to know what things boot repair will change as I dont want to just run stuff and have boot repair just do stuff and then i'll be like well that awesome but WTF happened (i'll be thinking about the inner workings for days and all that will be in my head is '??????? - face plant').

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-01
Good news it's working now. Give it a few more days and when you're confident it is fixed please mark thread as 'Solved'. ;)

Boot Repair basically checks out what's where and rewrites the fstab and other things for you so you can boot to all installed OSs (that is the plan anyhow and it is pretty good most times). It can also give you diagnostic output of how your machine is setup. Very handy in working out boot problems. You can install it and have a look without actually doing anything.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair#A2nd_option_:_install_Boot-Repair_in_Ubuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair#A2nd_option_:_install_Boot-Repair_in_Ubuntu)

You might also like to have a fiddle with Grub Customizer. As the name suggests you can customise grub; order of OSs, splash screen, timeouts, etc.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10340183](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10340183)

Enjoy the OS, the forums and the learning curve ... ;)

---

### Post by kenpachiZaraki on 2012-11-01
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair#A2nd_option_:_install_Boot-Repair_in_Ubuntu](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair#A2nd_option_:_install_Boot-Repair_in_Ubuntu)

You might also like to have a fiddle with Grub Customizer. As the name suggests you can customise grub; order of OSs, splash screen, timeouts, etc.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10340183](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10340183)

Enjoy the OS, the forums and the learning curve ... ;)

Turned on my computer this morning and its back to the usual purple screen of "pain" (id say death but not quite). I'll have to look at the above two links and hopefully I'll be able to sort this thing out.

thanks for your patients

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-02
You could also try booting to the recovery kernel and seeing if that reports anything obvious. This should be second on the menu list at boot. If it does it again when booting to recovery you'll get some valuable clues.

---

### Post by kenpachiZaraki on 2012-11-14
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> You could also try booting to the recovery kernel and seeing if that reports anything obvious. This should be second on the menu list at boot. If it does it again when booting to recovery you'll get some valuable clues.

I booted to recovery but no clues.
Though looking at the Xorg.1.log I find:

[ 15539.518] (II) Loading /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so
[ 15539.518] (II) Module glx: vendor="X.Org Foundation"
[ 15539.518] 	compiled for 1.13.0, module version = 1.0.0
[ 15539.518] 	ABI class: X.Org Server Extension, version 7.0
[ 15539.518] (==) AIGLX enabled
[ 15539.518] Loading extension GLX
[ 15539.518] (==) Matched fglrx as autoconfigured driver 0
[ 15539.518] (==) Matched ati as autoconfigured driver 1
[ 15539.518] (==) Matched fglrx as autoconfigured driver 2
[ 15539.518] (==) Matched ati as autoconfigured driver 3
[ 15539.518] (==) Matched vesa as autoconfigured driver 4
[ 15539.518] (==) Matched modesetting as autoconfigured driver 5
[ 15539.518] (==) Matched fbdev as autoconfigured driver 6
[ 15539.518] (==) Assigned the driver to the xf86ConfigLayout
[ 15539.518] (II) LoadModule: "fglrx"
[ 15539.518] (WW) Warning, couldn't open module fglrx
[ 15539.518] (II) UnloadModule: "fglrx"
[ 15539.518] (II) Unloading fglrx
[ 15539.518] (EE) Failed to load module "fglrx" (module does not exist, 0)

shows a problem with loading:
 
" [ 15539.518] (EE) Failed to load module "fglrx" (module does not exist, 0) "

giving an exit status and then repeats this again. 
 
This might shed some light on the subject?!?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-14
It does. That's a graphics issue related to ATI graphics cards I think. You could try uninstalling fglrx and using the 'nomodest' option on the end of the kernel line by hitting 'e' and editing it at the menu list when you boot. 

Worth a try, but that is definitely a graphics issue.

---

### Post by kenpachiZaraki on 2012-11-14
nomodest .. ill have to read up on that. Currently im looking at this page for installing the latest catalyst AMD driver. Page:  [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Quantal_Installation_Guide#Installing_Proprietary_Drivers_a.k.a._Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Quantal_Installation_Guide#Installing_Proprietary_Drivers_a.k.a._Catalyst.2Ffglrx)

but im kinda a bit put out as to whether this would fix my problem or escalate it. i.e.
should I do the following:

> **Download the latest Catalyst package**
This package contains both the 32-bit and 64-bit driver.

wget [http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/amd-driver-installer-catalyst-12.10-x86.x86_64.zip](http://www2.ati.com/drivers/linux/amd-driver-installer-catalyst-12.10-x86.x86_64.zip)
unzip amd-driver-installer-catalyst-12.10-x86.x86_64.zip
chmod +x amd-driver-installer-catalyst-12.10-x86.x86_64.run

Wish I new more about linux drivers (in particular the graphics divers) and the X sever and display manager

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-11-14
Well, if you edit the kernel line at boot:

1/ Select the kernel you want to edit at the menu list;
2/ Hit 'e' to edit;
3/ Find the kernel line which ends in 'quiet' or 'splash' or 'quiet splash' or either;
4/ Add a space and then type 'nomodset';
5/ Follow the instructions at the bottom to save and continue boot.

That should get you in, but you may need to remove the fglrx driver before attempting this. Once in, you should be able to install the AMD drivers through 'Additional Drivers' without downloading the driver from their site and installing manually and generally faffing about, etc.

---

