---
title: "Root User"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nigel_salvador on 2008-11-23
How do I reset the root user password

---

### Post by aysiu on 2008-11-23
There is, for all practical purposes, no root password.

There is a user password, however, that allows you to accomplish root-privileged tasks.

What do you think you need root for? We can help you find the recommended way to accomplish that task.

---

### Post by nigel_salvador on 2008-11-23
I want to run `nvidia-xconfig` as root but I forgot the password. The password is not what I thought it was. Thanks.

---

### Post by madverb on 2008-11-23
Disregard this.

---

### Post by madverb on 2008-11-23
gksu nvidia-xconfig

that's another option

---

### Post by nigel_salvador on 2008-11-23
This is the result:

nigelsalvador@nigelsalvador-desktop:~$ gksu nvidia-xconfig

Using X configuration file: "/etc/X11/xorg.conf".
Backed up file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf' as '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'
New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

VALIDATION ERROR: Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf.
                  Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a
                  Driver line.

---

### Post by nigel_salvador on 2008-11-23
I am trying to activate the desktop effects. Can anyone help me with this. Thanks.

---

### Post by jespdj on 2008-11-23
The sudo / gksu password is just your own password. There is no separate root password on Ubuntu, and this is not the source of your problem.

It looks like something is wrong with the configuration file /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Can you paste the contents of that file here, so people can help you see what's wrong with it?

Also, what brand and model video card do you have, and what driver are you using for it? Are you using a driver which supports accelerated 3D graphics? Generally this is necessary to be able to use the advanced desktop effects.

---

### Post by aysiu on 2008-11-23
If you've forgotten your own user password, you can reset it:
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2008-11-23
> **nigel_salvador said:**
> I am trying to activate the desktop effects. Can anyone help me with this. Thanks.

 Which video card do you have? If it's Nvidia, you need to be running the restricted drivers. Enable desktop effects through System, Preferences, Appearance, Visual Effects.

---

### Post by nigel_salvador on 2008-11-23
Here is the content of /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by nigel_salvador on 2008-11-23
I have a NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series graphics card

---

### Post by doas777 on 2008-11-23
i assume that since you could cat xorg.conf, that you have figured out your issue with sudo? 

if not heres how it works:
```

alpha10@21of2:~$ sudo cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
[sudo] password for alpha10: <ENTER THE PASSWORD YOU USED TO LOGIN TO DESKTOP>

```

---

### Post by nigel_salvador on 2008-11-23
Yes I figured out the sudo problem. Now I just want the Ubuntu Desktop effects to work however when I try to activate the Visual Effects in the Appearance Preferences I get the following error:

Desktop effects could not be enabled

---

