---
title: "10.04 Long Boot up Time."
date: 2010-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hi2prans on 2010-05-08
I just upgraded to 10.04 through a live cd. The boot up is great until I get to the login screen. When I enter my password the login window disappears as usual and I'm left staring at the empty login screen for almost 30 seconds. 
     Is anyone having the same problem? Sorry if I posted this in the wrong discussion.

---

### Post by meho_r on 2010-05-08
Yeah, same here, and a friend of mine confirmed same is happening on his machine. It takes about 20 to 25 seconds to get from login screen to fully functional desktop. Interesting thing is that Guake and AWN (which I set to start automatically after login) start in about 5&#8211;10 seconds after entering username/password, but for panels and desktop background to appear it takes 20&#8211;25 seconds.

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-05-08
You should submit a bug report to launchpad...

---

### Post by DCGStudios on 2010-05-08
Same problem, Furthermore sometimes the gnome panels wont even start up, but with a simple re-log it seems to work. It also seems to cause problems with other programs on the autostart list in an inconsistent pattern. Not a major problem but ideas would be appreciated. :p

---

### Post by hi2prans on 2010-05-11
I have submitted a bug report on Launchpad...lets see what happens!

---

### Post by linden940 on 2010-05-29
i am having the same thing happing on my 64bit computer....

it get the screen just be4 biso and then after that nothing and it stays black for about 30secs or so give or take alittle and THEN it will let me sign into my user account...after signing in it will sign into it right but it is still being slow in a few ways


has anyone else had fire fox slowing down or stop working/loading pages?

---

### Post by almz on 2010-06-01
If you're having "end_request: I/O error, dev fd0, sector 0" in dmesg try disabling your floppy in bios. That worked for me. Hope it helps.

---

### Post by abhot on 2010-06-02
@ hi2prans
i had a similar problem..
it took around 45s to boot.
i disabled the floppy drive from the bios 
now it takes around 19s to boot
hope this helps.....:guitar:

---

