---
title: "nvidia resolution will not stay after reboot"
date: 2010-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2010-05-31
I'm using Nvidia's driver from their website and Kubuntu 8.04.
I tried Debian 5.04 kde on the same computer and the resolution stays.
Of course I prefer kubuntu.
After shutdown the video resolution goes back to 1024x768 but I want 1280x800 instead.
I have a Dell IN191ON lcd widescreen monitor and geforce fx 5200 video card.  I'm using the latest video driver from Nvidia for this card version NVIDIA-Linux-x86-173.14.25-pkg1.run.

Here is my xorg.conf.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Wed Jan 27 03:03:53 PST 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL IN1910N"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce FX 5200"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x800 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-05-31
This is what was suggested to me when I have the same issue.

Do Code: gksudo nvidia-settings

Make your changes, then "apply", then "save changes to X configuration file. You may have to reboot after that.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-05-31
He seems to have done that already...  :

*Option "metamodes" "1280x800 +0+0*

---

### Post by PinchedNerve on 2010-05-31
> **realzippy said:**
> He seems to have done that already...  :

*Option "metamodes" "1280x800 +0+0*

DOH! Is it obvious I'm a n00b?   Ah well, tried to help.

---

### Post by wandalalakers on 2010-05-31
LOL, she.
Since I installed Debian kde on this desktop and it was able to save the settings, that gave me an idea.
When using Debian I had to uninstall

linux-restricted-drivers
xserver-xorg-video-nv
nvidia-xconfig
nvidia-settings
nvidia-kernel-common

Here's my fix:
I put my thinking cap on and used adept and did nvidia-
I uninstalled nvidia-settings and rebooted.
I used kde's system settings and put the resolution to 1280x800.
I shutdown the desktop.
The settings are now staying.
I wouldn't have thought of this if you hadn't said try gksudo nvidia-settings.
Thx for responding!
My problem has been solved!
Now if only I could fix my hdparm IOCTL problem.
I'm still using Kubuntu 8.04 on a secondary older PC that I don't think I'll be upgrading to Kubuntu 10.04.
I thought about Xubuntu 10.04 but I prefer KDE.
Hmm, I wonder if I installed nvidia-settings back on the desktop, would the system settings keep 1280x800?
Thx again for the help!

---

