---
title: "12.10 will not shut down"
date: 2012-12-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eddugo on 2012-12-05
I have a brand new Acer Aspire V5 with Windows 7 and 12.10 alongside it. When I shut down 12.10 by clicking on shut down the system restarts,  It does this every time. The only way I can power down from 12.10 is by pressing and holding the power key or booting windows and shutting it down. I have read postings similar to this, all Aser aspire models, on other forums with no replies. 
Thank you in advance for any help.

---

### Post by alexandari on 2012-12-05
until you find the solution,you can shutdown your system using

```
 init 0 
```

in the terminal

---

### Post by offgridguy on 2012-12-05
Does it make a difference if it is running on battery , or plugged in to AC power?

---

### Post by eddugo on 2012-12-05
Thank you for the code tip.
 
No, makes no difference battery/or AC supply

---

### Post by eddugo on 2012-12-05
just tried init 0 to shut down.  Does the same thing - shuts down, then reboots - thought  it might be a bios problem, but Windows shuts down.

---

### Post by ambdeep on 2012-12-05
try sudo halt

---

### Post by eddugo on 2012-12-05
tried sudo halt. The screen goes blank, then comes up to the Ubuntu screen with the five white dots under the Ubuntu name and logo and it just sits there doing nothing

---

### Post by MythosLegend on 2012-12-05
Have you tried 'sudo -P now'?

the -P is for poweroff
the now is to start the shutdown immediately.

---

### Post by eddugo on 2012-12-05
This is the result of sudo -p now.
 sudo -p now
usage: sudo [-D level] -h | -K | -k | -V
usage: sudo -v [-AknS] [-D level] [-g groupname|#gid] [-p prompt] [-u user
            name|#uid]
usage: sudo -l[l] [-AknS] [-D level] [-g groupname|#gid] [-p prompt] [-U user
            name] [-u user name|#uid] [-g groupname|#gid] [command]
usage: sudo [-AbEHknPS] [-r role] [-t type] [-C fd] [-D level] [-g
            groupname|#gid] [-p prompt] [-u user name|#uid] [-g groupname|#gid]
            [VAR=value] [-i|-s] [<command>]

Capitol P brings up - No command found

---

### Post by LuisGMarine on 2012-12-05
I didn't know that there are so many different commands to shut down the computer.  This is the one I use whenever I shut down from terminal.

```
sudo shutdown -h now
```

---

### Post by MythosLegend on 2012-12-05
My bad i should have include the shutdown in the command
'sudo shutdown -P now'

---

### Post by eddugo on 2012-12-05
Tried sudo shutdown -h now.  Boots right back up again

---

### Post by satya108 on 2013-01-19
I noticed the same problem with Toshiba C855. No way to shut down, it keeps restarting again. Then I unplugged it from AC and while on battery it shuts down normally.

---

### Post by thelokal on 2013-03-10
> **eddugo said:**
> I have a brand new Acer Aspire V5 with Windows 7 and 12.10 alongside it. When I shut down 12.10 by clicking on shut down the system restarts,  It does this every time. The only way I can power down from 12.10 is by pressing and holding the power key or booting windows and shutting it down. I have read postings similar to this, all Aser aspire models, on other forums with no replies. 
Thank you in advance for any help.

I have exactly the same situation - brand new V5 with Win7 and 12.10. It just will not shut down. So frustrating. Have you come across any solution yet?

Thanks.

---

### Post by zwervertje on 2013-03-20
Same here.  Just got an acer aspire v5 and it reboots when I select shutdown.
Have been going through quite some threads now, but nothing yet.  One thread mentioned that it is the power management of the USB ports that is to blame, but it was on fedora so could not try the fix mentioned there...
The workaround I use now is to hit the power button when I get the grub menu.  It shuts down quite cleanly then.  But it would be nice to have a simple shut down functional.

---

### Post by rockthesis on 2013-03-27
I have the same problem. I just bought my Acer Aspire V5-471 and installed Ubuntu 12.10 as my single OS. 

At first it was okay. But few days later, I have problem with shutdown process. It always restarted when I click shutdown. Searching on the web for many times, but still have no any solution. I've tried many codes using terminal, but the result was always the same.

Maybe the only solution is just reinstalled this OS. Huh.. :(

---

### Post by rbscairns on 2013-05-04
I have the same problem on my Asus eee B202 PC, except that I have Ubuntu 12.04 only installed (no M$ Windows). To make matters worse for me, it is an intermittent problem &#8211; even harder to try and solve.

I have ready many threads from members with the same problem. Still no solution has been found.

---

