---
title: "[18.04] Firefox and Other browsers cant open hidden file:/// links"
date: 2018-08-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kraythax on 2018-08-12
Rust docs on my local machine are at the location: 

file:///home/rsimmonsjr/.rustup/toolchains/stable-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu/share/doc/rust/html/index.html

None of the browsers will open any hidden file 9one that starts with a . ) so I cant look at the docs. I have tried other files and the only files that wont open start with a period in their name. Does anyone know how I can solve this?

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2018-08-12
What browsers other than Firefox have you tried?

Please post the output from running this command in Terminal -
```
ls -la '/home/rsimmonsjr/.rustup/toolchains/stable-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu/share/doc/rust/html/index.html'
```

---

### Post by kraythax on 2018-08-12
-rw-r--r-- 1 rsimmonsjr rsimmonsjr 6216 Aug 10 00:21 /home/rsimmonsjr/.rustup/toolchains/stable-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu/share/doc/rust/html/index.html

---

### Post by kraythax on 2018-08-12
Note it does this for all of the hidden files, even .zshrc

---

### Post by wyliecoyoteuk on 2018-08-13
you could always move the docs to a different directory as it is the . in the path that is causing the problem.
or you could create a symlink to the file in question.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2018-08-13
No issues here with files in . folders, what does this produce in terminal?
```
firefox file:///home/rsimmonsjr/.rustup/toolchains/stable-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu/share/doc/rust/html/index.html
```

---

### Post by kraythax on 2018-08-13
13:51:42 &#10140;  ~ &#10140;  firefox file:///home/rsimmonsjr/.rustup/toolchains/stable-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu/share/doc/rust/html/index.html 
/snap/firefox/118/bin/desktop-launch: line 174: /home/rsimmonsjr/snap/firefox/common/.config/user-dirs.dirs: No such file or directory
cp: cannot create regular file '/home/rsimmonsjr/snap/firefox/common/.config/': Not a directory
/snap/firefox/118/bin/desktop-launch: line 177: /home/rsimmonsjr/snap/firefox/common/.config/user-dirs.dirs.md5sum: No such file or directory
/snap/firefox/118/bin/desktop-launch: line 177: /home/rsimmonsjr/snap/firefox/common/.config/user-dirs.locale.md5sum: No such file or directory
Gtk-Message: Failed to load module "canberra-gtk-module"
Gtk-Message: Failed to load module "canberra-gtk-module"

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2018-08-13
Can you open it with the normal Ubuntu version of Firefox? -
```
sudo apt-get install firefox
```

---

### Post by kraythax on 2018-08-13
weirdly enough, yes. It seems to me that 61.x is has the problem whereas the ubuntu version is 60.0 not quantum.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2018-08-13
I'm able to view hidden file:/// links with Firefox 61.  The problem you're hitting is more likely related to the sandboxing of the snap.

---

### Post by kraythax on 2018-08-14
Ok then how do I install quantum without using the snap or alternatively where do I report the bug in the snap?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-08-14
You should already have Ubuntu's regular non-snap firefox installed as that is the default on Ubuntu.
And it's quantum for all currently supported Ubuntu releases.
If you search firefox in Ubuntu's menu (press the super key to invoke the menu) does it list two firefox?

---

### Post by kraythax on 2018-08-14
If I install one with apt it gets me the non-quantum but I can open hidden files. If I do the one with snap it gives me quantum but cant view hidden files. I want quantum WITH hidden files. :)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-08-14
Where does it tell you it's not Firefox Quantum?
All Ubuntu's versions are quantum now.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]280731[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by mc4man on 2018-08-14
Most if not all snaps are denied access to . folders & probably . files.
If not happy with that but still wanting to use such snaps then try removing & then installing with the --classic option.
ex. ff
sudo snap remove firefox
sudo snap install firefox --classic

---

