---
title: "11.04 won't install via CD nor USB"
date: 2011-09-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Weedsy on 2011-09-20
Acer Aspire M3641
Intel Pentium Dual CPU E2200 @ 2.20GHz
RAM 2.00 GB
Windows Vista Home Basic. Service Pack 2. 32bit os.
ATAPI DVD A  DH16A6S SCSI CdRom Device


OK here goes... I'm new to Ubuntu, though I feel more than a little familiar with the installation process having spent more than 6 hours yesterday trying to install it.

I downloaded Ubuntu iso from the official website and created a CD. I know this was successful because I installed it onto an ageing Sony vaio notebook without incident. This was installed as the only os - replacing windows xp (still haven't got thye internet on this machine but at least Ubuntu seems to work).

I then tried to install Ubuntu on my Acer Aspire desktop which is (sadly still) running win vista 32bit. It failed to boot into Ubuntu from the CD. It started to boot and I got the purple screen but then it stopped saying it couldn't find a live file system. At this point it hung - no keystrokes worked and I resorted to a cold restart of the computer.

Much is writ about the initramfs message about the live file system on this forum so I took the advice offered here and created a USB pendrive... same problem. I ran chkdsk as advised by the Ubuntu installation message but to no avail. Needless to say after repeated reboots and attempts I am still without a working system.

Has anybody else had problems with Acer Aspire desktop systems running Vista 32bit? I thought the cd drive may be the problem because it is a dual DVD/CD thing - but I failed to find anything in the BIOS to try changing here, and it doesn't explain the USB(2.0) pendrive problem.

Any suggestions to try before I crawl back under my microsoft windows stone before emerging in another 10 years to try linux again? (I tries Suse linux 10 years ago and swore I'd wait until 'ordinary people' could use linux before trying again).

Help me please cos I really, really want to run Ubuntu on my destop.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-09-20
When you see this image:

[IMG]http://img829.imageshack.us/img829/3509/dgfdgrunningoraclevmvir.png[/IMG]

Can you press a key?

You will get into a text environment.

There you can change boot options (the last menu choice). Try some boot options and see if it works.

For a better explanation, check my signature about boot options.

BTW: everyone can use Linux now, but installing can be difficult.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-09-20
Oh yes, if you don't get it working, you can wait a few weeks. 11.10 will be released by then, and it could contain the patches you need.

see the release schedule: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricReleaseSchedule](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/OneiricReleaseSchedule)

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-09-20
Looks like you can still boot into Vista, right?

If so, do that and open Disk Management -- and then take a look at the partitions already on your drive.  

OEMs have recently been configuring Win7 preinstalled systems with the maximum of 4 Primary partitions -- rendering simple Ubuntu installation impossible.  Didn't think they did that back in the Vista days -- but you never know.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-09-20
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> Looks like you can still boot into Vista, right?

If so, do that and open Disk Management -- and then take a look at the partitions already on your drive.  

OEMs have recently been configuring Win7 preinstalled systems with the maximum of 4 Primary partitions -- rendering simple Ubuntu installation impossible.  Didn't think they did that back in the Vista days -- but you never know.

This could be a reason for not being able to install it, but it has nothing to do with booting from the live CD. You can even boot a live CD without hdd.

---

### Post by Weedsy on 2011-09-22
Thanks for the responses

I thought the image you showed me meant (press a key if you need the bathroom) or something, anyway YES... if I press a key I get a menu.

Any suggestions as to what I should do with this new found ability?

The error message I get is "initramfs - unable to find live file system" (not exact) so I assume it doesn't actually need a hdd, but that it loads (or should load) a file system into ram as it boots?

Otherwise I will wait a while before using even more bandwidth to download yet another iso file.

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-09-22
initramfs points to something wrong with your CD.

Can you check the md5sum of the iso and the CD with the md5sum mentioned on the site? There should be some info on the Ubuntu wiki about it. I don't know how to do that on Windows myself.

It's weird that you were able to install with that CD on another machine, but still worth trying it.

---

### Post by Weedsy on 2011-09-22
OK in widows I used a small command line app to show the MD5 hash for the downloaded iso. I compared that with the values on UbuntuHashes [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuHashes) and found that **it matches** ubuntu-11.04-desktop-i386.is.

I then did the check against the CD but **can't find a match **there. The entries I have are as follows:

README.diskdefines                       b5e2339c496d0a225ccb73464dd61d9b
autorun.inf                                    62bf7841341b7faa69062fd0095af116
md5sum.txt                                   77df4522827bc5c01c3694021c776ea9
ubuntu                                          d41d8cd98f00b204e9800998ecf8427e
usb-creator.exe                           100%  fe6fa04c981a9d3835f12f27bd6dda71
wubi.exe                                       39f805cae8be546747c492935ce0fcdd

but the hash for the iso is 8b1085bed498b82ef1485ef19074c281

I guess the one I'm interested in is the 'Ubuntu' line? (I'll burn another CD and do the check again but please first tell me which line to check against)

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-09-22
you just md5-ed the files inside the CD (like you would unpack the iso and md5 those files). You need to md5 the whole CD.

In linux, the cd drive is just the file /dev/cdrom, but I don't know how to do this in windows (as I said before).

---

### Post by Weedsy on 2011-10-01
Thanks sanderd17

I have now been trying to install Ubuntu on a (in my opinion) relatively standard set of hardware for over a week. It has involved downloading three iso files and burning two CDs and a pendrive. I still have an "initramfs" error.

This has led me once again to reflect on Linux vs. MS Windows... I have twenty years experience in computing and yet don't feel qualified to comment on the technical merits of Ubuntu vs. Windows. Yes, I know windows takes a lot of space and a long time to boot but I don't honestly know if it's better or worse at handling memory or disk swapping etc.

What I am sure about though is that in my experience I have never had a problem that took over a week to solve when installing MS windows. In fact I never really had a problem. It recognises all the kit I have, from CD drives to monitors and webcams to flashdrives and printers - right from get go.

No, the reason that Windows will not be ousted by Linux anytime in the near future is due to commercial rather than technical prowess. As long as hardware manufacturers build their products for Windows - indeed certify them as such, and as long as Windows continues to be pre-installed on machines at the point of sale then we will have a long wait for Linux to be running on even one in a hundred machines.

It saddens me that mere mortals (and I include myself here) that want a computer to play games on, work on a few spreadsheets and browse the net, only really have one choice - but that's what we have. We want a point-and-click environment that actually works most of the time. I failed to even install Ubuntu and I consider myself in the technical top 10% of the mere mortal population.

For these reasons I am heading back to work with Windows for another few years - sure I'll look again at Linux in a while, but before I do I'll read this forum (using firefox running in Windows) to see how many issues there still are with software and peripherals that should reasonably be expected to actually work with the OS.

But thanks again, for trying to help.

Weedsy

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-10-01
You have to pick what's best for you and your hardware.

It's difficult for us to solve your problem from a distance. I don't know where you live, but you could contact a local community (LoCo) and ask for personal help.

I know the Belgian loco has a helpers network, but maybe not where you live.

And there will always be problems with certain hardware. But as long as it's not a problem with your hardware, you can use Linux.

Sorry to see you leaving without choice.

---

