---
title: "10.04 Very sluggish, sys monitor shows CPU working @ 100%"
date: 2010-06-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dcgrp on 2010-06-20
I am relatively new to all of this and I am having some trouble with my fresh install of 10.04.

I have a pentium 4 3.0 Ghz Hypertheading CPU, so on the system monitor it shows CPU 1 and CPU 2.  The system monitor shows that CPU 1 and CPU 2 spend a great deal of time @ 100% even when I'm not doing anything.  If I check the processes tab, I cannot find any processes using more than their normal share.

Needless to say, having the CPU work this hard makes trying to use 10.04 a pain in the butt because it is so sluggish.  Any ideas?

SOLVED (thanks)

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-06-20
In System Monitor, go to View and select All Processes.  Then you should be able to figure out what program is responsible.

---

### Post by dcgrp on 2010-06-20
The thing is, no processes seem to be responsible.  I rebooted and now the CPU levels are down to normal, but the thing is still really sluggish.

---

### Post by Pollox on 2010-06-20
Do you have plenty of memory free?

---

### Post by dcgrp on 2010-06-20
well, I tried turning off the fancy graphics and that seems to help a good bit, I think it must not like my video card or something.

ati x1600

---

### Post by OtakuWrath on 2010-06-20
10.04 was sluggish for me too.. of course i only have around 512 mb ram.. everything seems to run okay after restarting a few times.. i still see sluggishness and program hanging though.. I'm used to it from running WinXP even with the sluggishness it still runs better than XP.. possibly cause my XP is modded so much..

---

### Post by uncleray on 2010-08-04
Hi All:
I have 10.04 on a Compaq Evo N610C with a 2 gig processor.  This is by far the SLOWEST distro
I have ever used.  And I have used about 10-12 Distros in my time.
Using only certain Themes or using certain settings and other work arounds to speed things up
indicates, IMHO that the Distro should not have been released.  Just my $0.02.

---

### Post by celldweller1591 on 2010-08-04
i have the same problem but i fond my system working faster when i switch to older themes from "light" or "Dark" which are newly introduced in ubuntu lucid. but with some applications such as firefox, whenever i go beyond 15 tabs, my second cpu goes mad with constant 100% usage and the first core shows 20-30% variable. Whenever i play any movie in VLC or any other player, screen flickers a lot !
 Things are messy, i was thinking of going back to Jaunty !

---

### Post by soldier1st on 2010-08-05
Ubuntu will work on 512MB but don't try the run too much as Ubuntu recommends 1GB min but for a light Distro run Xubuntu as you still have access to the Ubuntu repositories and Hardware support but the Enviroment is lighter and has lighter apps. or perhaps it is time to upgrade your memory.

---

### Post by robin.bakkerus@gmail.com on 2010-08-06
Since recently I am having the same problem.
Immediately after a (re)start, the system monitor shows that one cpu is between 10 - 20% the second cpu is constantly between 10 - 100%

>top  shows
[IMG]file:///tmp/moz-screenshot-1.png[/IMG]top - 06:59:15 up 23:37,  2 users,  load average: 1.43, 1.59, 1.68
Tasks: 177 total,   3 running, 174 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s):  9.4%us, 26.2%sy,  0.1%ni, 63.9%id,  0.3%wa,  0.0%hi,  0.0%si,  0.0%st
Mem:   2019948k total,  1653784k used,   366164k free,   457240k buffers
Swap:   819272k total,        0k used,   819272k free,   846320k cached

 3677 root      20   0     0    0    0 R  [COLOR=Red]**101**[/COLOR]  0.0  10:46.73 events/1  
 1115 root      20   0 86104  34m  14m S   10  1.7  72:54.10 Xorg       

So it looks like some event handling is causing the cpu going to 100%

The effect is that the computer is constantly running and the fan never goes down, so I can not simply close the laptop a put it in a laptop case, because it will get very hot.

On the other hand, running a very compute intensive task (sort of a java benchmark) is not much slower then it was before these problems began.

Note I have setup a dual-boot system, on a Win-XP machine.

My laptop looks like this:
Ubunto 10.04 (lucid)
Kernel 2.6.32-24-generic
Gnome 2.30.2

Memory 1.9Gb
2 Processor like:
vendor_id    : GenuineIntel
cpu family    : 6
model        : 15
model name    : Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU     T7500  @ 2.20GHz
stepping    : 10
cpu MHz        : 800.000
cache size    : 4096 KB
physical id    : 0
siblings    : 2
core id        : 1
cpu cores    : 2
apicid        : 1
initial apicid    : 1
fdiv_bug    : no
hlt_bug        : no
f00f_bug    : no
coma_bug    : no
fpu        : yes
fpu_exception    : yes
cpuid level    : 10
wp        : yes
flags        : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe nx lm constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts aperfmperf pni dtes64 monitor ds_cpl vmx est tm2 ssse3 cx16 xtpr pdcm lahf_lm ida tpr_shadow vnmi flexpriority
bogomips    : 4388.78
clflush size    : 64
cache_alignment    : 64
address sizes    : 36 bits physical, 48 bits virtual
power management:

Available diskspace 6.6Gb

---

### Post by robin.bakkerus@gmail.com on 2010-08-06
In addition to my previous reply, I can add the following:

I applied the updates that I received this morning (dont know what patches, not many)

Then shutdown the laptop

Started it again, and notices to my suprise that performance was like the old days. Both cpu's between 5 - 20%.

What caught my attention also, was an icon (top right) indicating no network connections were active. Normally I see the wireless network indication with a red explanation mark that the wireless is not active. Which is correct because here at work I have to connect to Hidden wireless network. 

So maybe the problem before was caused by some excessive event handling from wireless.

---

### Post by benali72 on 2010-08-17
I also have the 10.04 problem where CPU goes to 100%.

I've recently installed 10.04 on 3 computers and have this problem on all 3.  Their specs are--

1. P-4 @2.4 ghz / 768M DDR ram / 80G Maxtor IDE disk
2. P-4 @1.5 ghz / 768M PC-133 ram / 80G Maxtor IDE disk
3. Celeron @2.6 ghz / 1G DDR ram / 160 WD IDE disk

I have been running 9.10 and 8.04 instances on all 3 machines and have had no prior CPU 100% issues at all. This is strictly a 10.04 issue. All 3 machines have full 10.04 updates as of Aug 15 2010.

Right now I just experienced the problem on the 1st machine. All I did was start it up, plug in a USB memory stick, and copy a few files from the hard disk to the memory stick using Nautilus. And the machine went up to 100% for about 5 minutes. I was not able to determine which process caused the problem using System Monitor.

Sorry if my reviving a week-old thread disturbs anyone, but this is rather a major problem for 10.04. Does anyone have an authoritative solution, or should I spend the time necessary to investigate this thoroughly?

Thank you.

---

### Post by ckling on 2010-11-20
I had this problem and I found that when I pulled up the System Monitor and marked view -> All Processes, the avahi-daemon was hogging all of  my CPU2.  So I restarted it (sudo service avahi-daemon restart) and poof, CPU2 back to normal.  Maybe you're having the same problem and this will work for ya'll?

---

