---
title: "Nvidia Geforce 210 Custom Resolution on LG Electronics 37LF75"
date: 2010-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rondiamond on 2010-11-27
Hi I'm trying to get my resolution to match the resolution I use in Windows 7 which is 1768 x 992 (50hz).

Nvidia Geforce 210, LG Electronics 37LF75 - At the moment the top and bottom are both missing off the screen.

Everytime I try to adjust my xorg.conf file it hangs at boot. Not really sure what exactly I'm doing with it.

Maybe somebody could help.




xorg.conf


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings: version 260.19.06 (buildd@yellow) Mon Oct 4 15:59:51 UTC 2010

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 260.19.06 (buildmeister@builder101) Mon Sep 13 04:59:45 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
Option "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "LG Electronics 37LF75"
HorizSync 31.0 - 84.0
VertRefresh 57.0 - 75.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Device0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce 210"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Device0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "TwinView" "0"
Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
EndSubSection
EndSection



Cheers

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-11-27
Try this

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by rondiamond on 2010-11-27
Thanks for your help,

I have opened the Nvidia settings menu before in Ubuntu, my difficulty is that the standard resolution 1920*1080 does not display correctly on my screen for whatever reason. I can use my screen's settings to force it to fit in the screen but text becomes squashed and just doesn't look right. 

This issues is the same in windows 7, however in Windows 7 I can manually adjust the screen resolution to 1768*992 and it looks perfect. That option isn't available to me in the list of resolutions in Ubuntu, I know it is possible to set manual resolutions in xorg.conf but I'm not quite sure what I should be doing.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-11-27
If you are running Maverick, you might want to update your nvidia version by going to System > Administration > Additional Drivers, "remove" nvidia, reboot, "activate" nvidia, and reboot.  Not that there is anything wrong with that version other than I got a flood of meaningless errors in dmesg and /var/log/messages from it.  I was using a GT 220 and now GT 430 with LG 32LF40 1080p HDTV.

Are you connected with VGA (RGB) or digital (DVI or HDMI).  I have either connected DVI to HDMI or HDMI to it from my Desktop.  I notice that if I set my LG to "16:9" it is over scanned all around, but it has a "Just Scan" mode instead that matches itself to the video signal and works perfectly for 1920x1080 or any lower resolution.  But there is no Just Scan mode for VGA, or if you label an HDMI connection as PC.

If your LG has no "Just Scan" mode or you cannot use it due to VGA, then you may need to find a proper modeline to plug into xorg.conf.  Typically the tools to get a modeline are **cvt** or **gtf**, but neither came up with a proper modeline for 1080p (right height, but horizonatally squashed). I am not quite sure how to plug modelines into xorg.conf, because I have only used those for xrandr commands in a script and xrandr does not work properly with nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by rondiamond on 2010-11-28
When I use the just scan mode on my Lg for some reason text looks squashed, letters are too narrow. I have however found a solution for displaying everything properly in 16:9 mode, I had completely overlooked the overscan compensation setting in nvidia settings, it is fine now.

Thanks for your help

---

