---
title: "9.04 Jaunty 64Bit  + BCM Wireless WLAN Card"
date: 2009-09-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by staticextasy on 2009-09-30
Okay so basically here is where I'm at, i followed a post a few days ago where the guy got his wireless to show up by uninstalling the hardware drivers, restarting, switching card off, restart, switch card on, install drivers and his wireless will work and he stated it keeps working even after reboots.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134631](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1134631)

I can do the same thing however after reboot my wlan card does not work again and i have to do the same thing to redo my card, it also shows up as eth1 and not wlan0.

Anyone have any suggestions to make my wlan card stay working 24/7?

---

### Post by staticextasy on 2009-09-30
Okay just an update, thought some people might find this useful for issues with BCM4328 Wlan card 

Found a link in google after awhile 
[http://www.bluebottle.net.au/blog/2009/broadcom-bcm4328-on-ubuntu-904-jaunty](http://www.bluebottle.net.au/blog/2009/broadcom-bcm4328-on-ubuntu-904-jaunty)

> sudo apt-get install b43-fwcutter

then reboot according to article.

Doesn't work for me however, 

I do have to just uninstall and then reinstall the proprietary drivers to get the card to work, it just doesn't stay that way after a reboot i have to reinstall them over.

any help to make my solution permanent would be nice \

On another note i am using WCID network manager.

Thanks.

---

### Post by staticextasy on 2009-10-01
bump for help.

---

### Post by Ayuthia on 2009-10-01
Actually, your card should be listed as an eth1 instead of a wlan0 because it has the 4328 card.  The b43 module does not support the 4328 card at this time.  Because of this, you need to enable the Broadcom STA card in System->Administration->Hardware Drivers.  From there you can check to see if it worked by doing the following (from the Terminal):
```
sudo modprobe -r b43 ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl
sudo iwlist scan
```
This should bring up a list of wireless sites.  After a little bit, Network Manager should be able to find some sites also.

If that works, you will need to do the following:
```
echo blacklist b43 | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo blacklist ssb | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo wl | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
```

This will prevent the b43 module from loading and let the Broadcom STA module run instead.

For some reason, Ubuntu will load the b43 module for the 4328 card even though it cannot use it.

---

### Post by staticextasy on 2009-10-02
> **Ayuthia said:**
> 
```
echo blacklist b43 | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo blacklist ssb | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo wl | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
```


Thanks thats exactly what i needed, to blacklist the b43.

the propriety drivers were working already i just needed to stop ubuntu from loading b43 and my wireless works on reboot.

Thank you.

---

### Post by FirstByté on 2009-10-12
> **Ayuthia said:**
> Actually, your card should be listed as an eth1 instead of a wlan0 because it has the 4328 card.  The b43 module does not support the 4328 card at this time.  Because of this, you need to enable the Broadcom STA card in System->Administration->Hardware Drivers.  From there you can check to see if it worked by doing the following (from the Terminal):
```
sudo modprobe -r b43 ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl
sudo iwlist scan
```
This should bring up a list of wireless sites.  After a little bit, Network Manager should be able to find some sites also.

If that works, you will need to do the following:
```
echo blacklist b43 | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo blacklist ssb | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo wl | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
```

This will prevent the b43 module from loading and let the Broadcom STA module run instead.

For some reason, Ubuntu will load the b43 module for the 4328 card even though it cannot use it.


I need help!

All these 
```
sudo modprobe -r b43 ssb wl
sudo modprobe wl

```
bash me with:
> FATAL: Module wl not found.


This returns nothing
```
~$ lsmod  | grep "b43\|ssb\|wl"
```

A little about me:
> ~$ lspci -nn | grep -i network
0b:00.0 Network controller [0280]: Broadcom Corporation BCM4312 802.11b/g [14e4:4315] (rev 01)

~$ uname -a
Linux P34CE 2.6.31-13-generic #44-Ubuntu SMP Sat Oct 10 15:27:55 UTC 2009 i686 GNU/Linux




---

### Post by staticextasy on 2009-10-16
did you enable the proprietary drivers by going to system>administration>hardware drivers? 

If yes blacklist the b43 drivers, the 4312 card has same issues as BCM4328 does apparently.

You should be using the proprietary drivers according to just searching BCM4312 on the forums everyone else uses the STA hardware drivers for it.

Reboot your box after you enable the proprietary drivers and blacklisting with 
> echo blacklist b43 | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo blacklist ssb | sudo tee -a /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf
echo wl | sudo tee -a /etc/modules

the wl module is from the STA drivers.

If you already have the hardware drivers enabled, uninstall and reinstall them in system>administration>hardware drivers and reboot.

---

