---
title: "[SOLVED] Why are partitions password protected?"
date: 2007-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bwood720 on 2007-11-02
I am extremely new to linux (less than 2 weeks) and am annoyed that every time I boot up linux (I can't hibernate for some reason--but that's another issue) I have to type in my password if I want to access my NTFS partition. I obviously don't want to cut or copy all of my MP3's to my linux partition, so accessing them from the NTFS works great, except the annoyance caused every time I boot into Ubuntu. If I run Rhythmbox Music Player before entering the password it obviously can't find my music and begins temporarily removing it from my library. 

So, in order for Rhythmbox Music Player to play my music I have to open up Computer under Places and access my NTFS partition, type in the password and then I can go play my MP3's. Kind of annoying, don't you think? I know it's probably for security, but just to read my partition shouldn't be dangerous (at least I wouldn't think). 

Being new to linux I don't understand much of anything about it's command prompts, etc. so naturally I didn't understand the other articles I found about this annoyance on this forum and others.

Thanks

---

### Post by maybeway36 on 2007-11-02
Try looking in /etc/fstab. Press Alt+F2 and type
```
gksu gedit /etc/fstab
```
Then find the NTFS line and make sure the options list includes
```
users
```

---

### Post by Pumalite on 2007-11-02
Maybe this helps:

Open a terminal and
Code:

sudo chown yourusername /whereveritismounted

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-11-02
Hmmm.... if you would, could you please post the contents of the file /etc/fstab?

---

### Post by bwood720 on 2007-11-03
The contents of /etc/fstab is shown below; I don't see anywhere where it mentions an ntfs partition. I have a dell 1300 laptop that has a bunch of partitions (dell utility, some dell restore partition, a FAT32 partition for transferring my windows files to linux and then of course my linux, and windows partitions) 

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda6
UUID=35ae78aa-faca-44af-9a47-18dfd2521d62 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda7
UUID=a9b39182-f81e-4733-97b3-aa8f45ff7ce1 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0       0


Also, I don't know anything about where anything on my system is "mounted" (I'm really inexperienced with Linux).

Thanks.

---

### Post by dukejib on 2007-11-03
@bwood720;3695891

Make sure you have these packages installed
ntfs-3g
ntfs-config

then 

enter the following entries in your **/etc/fstab**
```

# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=C67867E77867D529 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
```
Then
```

sudo mount -a
```

This will work only if you have your first partition is NTFS.

---

### Post by Happy_Man on 2007-11-03
To check this, check the output of the command ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` to see which partition is NTFS, then change the entry to reflect that. Also, get rid of the UUID string in that and replace with just "/dev/sda1" or whatever your partition is numbered. So it would perhaps look like this: ```
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
```

---

### Post by mahousaru on 2007-11-03
UUIDs are good things, they stop your devices from getting mixed up.  They are unique for your own partitions and can be found using:

```
ls /dev/disk/by-uuid -alh
```

Personally I rank in order of usefulness using UUIDs, then labels and finally followed by devices.  Some people like labels more as they are human readable, but this requires you to enforce a strict naming policy.

---

### Post by bwood720 on 2007-11-03
Ok, so I just about tried everything listed above and couldn't get linux to even recognize my partition after that. I typed in ntfs-3g in terminal and it suggested (sda2 is my ntfs partition): 

ntfs-3g /dev/sda2 /mnt/win -o force,locale=en_EN.UTF-8

I've tried customizing that as suggested and ended up with:

ntfs-3g /dev/sda2 /mnt/win -o force,user,locale=en_EN.UTF-8
or 
ntfs-3g /dev/sda2 /mnt/win -o force,defaults,locale=en_EN.UTF-8

However, it stills prompts me for my password to access that drive after booting into linux.


So I tried the ntfs-config (which I first had to download and install) and it found my ntfs partition. I configured it to have write access for internal and external (sure, why not?) drives, then rebooted, and found that it no longer prompts me for my password.

By the way, my fstab file now looks like:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=35ae78aa-faca-44af-9a47-18dfd2521d62 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=a9b39182-f81e-4733-97b3-aa8f45ff7ce1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/Brian ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0


Thanks for all the help guys! My linux frustration is slowly going down.

---

