---
title: "10.10 Gnome/Compiz bug: windows stuck to Gnome panels"
date: 2010-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nighaught on 2010-10-31
I installed Ubuntu 10.10 in Virtual Box and while using Normal visual effects I get an odd problem with the windows. When a window touches the top or bottom Gnome panels it gets stuck there and I cannot move it away from the panel. Trying to drag the window causes the window to slowly slide to the right along the panel till it goes off the screen and finally pops free.

If I turn visual effects to none the problem goes away leading me to conclude it is a problem with Compiz. Any ideas what is going wrong for me? It should be easily reproducible with the current Virtual Box software, Ubuntu 10.10 64bit desktop, and the repository versions of the Virtual Box guest additions.

---

### Post by trikster_x on 2010-10-31
uncheck snap windows in compiz config

---

### Post by nighaught on 2010-10-31
Thank you, after installing the CompizConfig Settings Manager, that solved the problem with the windows.

But something is still broken in Compiz where the behavior of the window gets buggy when it is stuck to the panels.

---

### Post by trikster_x on 2010-10-31
Try resizing the windows so they are smaller.  Sometimes if the window is almost the same size as the screen, they don't want to release right, and if wobbly windows is enabled, it has caused the same problem for me in the past.  The window is allowed too much deformation before pulling free, and will walk right off the screen.

---

### Post by nighaught on 2010-11-01
It likely isn't an issue of window size. The problem occurs with small windows like the Gnome terminal and calculator applications included with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by manuelb on 2010-12-16
This is quite a long standing bug now, this is not happening with xfce btw.

---

