---
title: "6.10 users, simple question. Where should grub be installed?"
date: 2007-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
Okay, after a night and morning of pure anger and everything going wrong, I have finally decided to flat out reinstall everything.

Windows is now installed on a 25 gig partition.

Here's what I'm looking at. 

At the 2nd to last screen of installing Ubuntu through the gui, you see the list of partitions and whether you want to format them. Here's what I see.




/media/sdb2     233gb    Partition 2 Disc usb/scsi/sata 2 primary sdb2      reformat? no
/media/hdd1     190gb    Partition 1 Disc ide/ata 4 primary hdd1              reformat? no
/media/sda1     24gb      Partition 1 disc usb/scsi/sata 1 primary sda1      reformat? no
swap                510mb   Parition 2 disc usb/scsi/sata 1 primary sda2       reformat? yes
/                      209gb    Partition 3 disc usb/scsi/sata 1 primary sda3      reformat? yes

Just to clarify, sdb2 is a blank drive formatted with ext3 file system. It contains a backup of my home folder from a previous install. hdd1 is in the exact same boat, except it's 190 gig and ide. The 24 gig partition is my windows 2000 pro partition, which is located on sda. The remainder of sda is split between swap and root, which is 510mb and 209gb.

At the next screen, it says in the list "Grub will be installed to HD0" 

Is that normal? Is it supposed to be installed to HD0? What in the world is HD0? Waiting for a response to install...

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-01-31
yea HD0 is normal, its like the boot sector of the disk, some people choose a different place but I don't know why, you'd have to ask around.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
Okay. I did that. HD0.

Now when I boot up, it says grub 1.5 loading... then just boots to windows.

What in the world? I've about had enough of this.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
Okay. I unhooked all of my hard drives except the main SATA drive that has windows/linux on it.

When I try to reinstall the boot loader, it says "The rescue operatin grub reinstall failed with exit code 20." 

What in the %(&*?!!!?!?!

---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
How about a simpler question.

I unplugged all of my hard disk drives except my main. This is what I see with fdisk.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 251.0 GB, 251000193024 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30515 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        3187    25599546    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            3188        3252      522112+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda3            3253       30515   218990047+  83  Linux
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 


Should my NTFS partition be the boot one? Or the swap? Or even the third partition?

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-01-31
For me it's really hard to tell you how you should hve it setup without being there.

1. I can tell you that where grub is installed is fine.

2. your windows partition should be the 1st and primary partition, not logical (it looks like you have it that way but i just wanna make sure)

3. your error code may be grub getting mad that you unhooked the drives and it thinks you still have the other setup.

> Should my NTFS partition be the boot one? Or the swap? Or even the third partition?

not sure i understand, but ntfs is your windows partitions so, no it shouldnt be swap formatted

---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
So maybe I should just leave everything unplugged except my main drive and reinstall windows and edgy. 

The other two drives are simply empty drives, formatted with ext3, and containing music and pictures. That's it. 

I'll try installing windows and edgy on the single drive. And we'll see what happens. Blah.

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-01-31
wait
lol lemme check on something

---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
Alright. Waiting... :P

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-01-31
I was curious if you already looked at a howto for partitioning.

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/partitioning](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/partitioning)

you seem to understand it, i just wanted to make sure.

I don't think that you have to reformat/re-install but that may be the easiest way. sry i couldn't save you from it, i'm sure theres people here that would know a better way.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
I'm pretty familiar with partitions and all. I read through it though, but it provided no additional help.

I'm going to do a full format and reinstall windows and edgy, but this time with only 1 drive connected. This may also make me a little more at ease, because when my other 2 drives were plugged in (which had my backups saved) I was REAL cautious not to accidentally format them. We'll see how this goes.

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-01-31
ok well let me know how it works out.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
Okay I got edgy running. Grub seemed to work fine. No other drives are plugged in however. I'm going to power down after the updates, plug in the spare drives, and see how it works.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2007-01-31
Everything is running fine. My other two drives mounted just fine. The only thing is, I had to go to terminal to use fdisk to see the drive names. For some reason, disks manager underneath administration is missing. Why?

---

### Post by loserboy on 2007-01-31
sucks dont it, i noticed tha when i installed edgy too, i dunno why, maybe it's still there but just hidden i didnt really look.

---

### Post by Vox754 on 2007-01-31
[QUOTE=Roasted]For some reason, disks manager underneath administration is missing. Why?[/QUOTE]
[QUOTE=loserboy]sucks dont it, i noticed tha when i installed edgy too, i dunno why, maybe it's still there but just hidden i didnt really look.[/QUOTE]
For some reason it existed in 6.06, it doesn't anymore in 6.10.
Maybe they wanted people to use exclusively the command line and "fstab" to modify the partitions.

---

