---
title: "9.10 Installed on MS Virtual PC-  Folder Sharing Help"
date: 2010-02-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jase07 on 2010-02-23
Hi! nice to be finally here!
 
I recently installed Ubuntu 9.10 on Microsoft Virtual PC 2007 and went okey! i updated the OS and the needed files to share folders to XP machines. 
 
Now i have problems sharing it! i was able to share it for few hours then it got unshared without doing anything (the folder is still shared in ubuntu but cannot access by xp machines). Also, when i shut down the host pc and rebooted everything back (ubuntu too) i wasnt able to access share folders from ubuntu or even the computer itself (//ubuntuname) 
 
i followed this guide (Sharing folders via Nautilus part) and seems to be okey but after i shutdown my host (gone to sleep), and booted everything back this morning, i cant seem to access the ubuntu share folders anymore.
 
I need ubuntu to work as a file server. i have 30+ units of xp machines, their My Documents folder is redirected to ubuntu but I am having problems with sharing.
 
My setup is this:
 
My host computer have 2 lan cards
Lan Card 1
Lan Card 2
 
My host pc (XP) connects to Lan Card 1 (static LAN IP)
Ubuntu (Virtual PC) is connected to Lan Card 2 (Obtain automatic IP)
 
All XP machines are connected via switches/hub which are connected to a router.
 
I appreciate any help.
 
Thank you.

---

### Post by jase07 on 2010-02-24
bump

---

### Post by jase07 on 2010-02-25
up

---

### Post by jase07 on 2010-02-26
anyone?

---

