---
title: "~/.profile not run at login"
date: 2009-08-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by craq on 2009-08-13
Hi,
from what I can find (e.g. [http://milwaukeelug.org/wws/arc/mlug-list/2007-03/msg00235.html](http://milwaukeelug.org/wws/arc/mlug-list/2007-03/msg00235.html)) the file ~/.profile should be read at login. It seems that mine is not, does anyone have any ideas why? What settings should I look at? I'm running Jaunty with KDE 4.2.

For the meantime I've got round it by inserting ```
. ~/.profile
``` at the end of .bashrc, and removing the link from .profile to .bashrc to avoid an infinite loop

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-08-13
~/.profile should be executed for *login shells*.

In other words it's not normally used for terminal emulators, unless you set your terminal to act as a login shell.

Also note that if you have a ~/.bash_profile or ~/.bash_login, then ~/.profle isn't used.

---

### Post by craq on 2009-08-13
thanks mcduck, although I got a little bit confused with the terminology... if this right?
a *login shell* starts whenever I log in, and should call ~/.profile
a *terminal emulator* starts when I open a terminal (i.e. konsole for KDE), or type bash, and should call ~/.bashrc

how would I check what files are read at login? At the moment I use echo to check for variables set in the files, but for that I need a terminal... so *of course* bashrc runs.

I don't have a ~/.bash_profile or ~/.bash_login file

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-08-13
Yes, you got the terminology right. I'm not sure how to check what files are executed in which situation, but the way I see it there really are only two situations I should care about:

1. Login shell, executes ~/.profile, which executes ~/.bashrc (unless you remove the linking from .profile yourself).

2. non-login shells, which only execute ~/.bashrc.

So wiht the default setup .bashrc is executed always, and in  case of login shell .profile is also used.

If you just want to get better information what files are executed and in which situations you'll have to wait and see if somebody with more knowledge finds this thread. This is pretty much all I know about.

However if you are trying to do something specific, you could tell what you are trying to achieve and perhaps I'll be able to help more..

(by the way, using echo commands in different files was pretty much the same idea I had in my mind for finding about which files are used and when.)

---

### Post by craq on 2009-08-13
Ok, that all makes sense... I understand better now but still can't solve the problem.

Just to be totally unambiguous, a *login shell* starts after I turn the computer on, select my username from the list and enter my password? And again if I logout and log back in?

I'm confused as to why my ~/.profile file isn't running in either case. The file seems to work, for example if I call it from ~/.bashrc, but this cross-calling doesn't seem like the right way to do it.

The goal is to set the $LD_LIBRARY_PATH variable at login time

---

### Post by mcduck on 2009-08-14
Every shell where you have to enter your user name & password to use it is a login shell. For example when you use Ctrl-Alt-F1 – F6 to enter a TTY you use login shells. Also remote connections with SSH are login shells, and so is the shell in which your desktop runs.

How are you setting the variable? Are you setting the variable directly, or by using "export" command? Setting the variable directly only sets it for the current shell, child processes of that shell won't be aware of the variable. Exporting it sets it as global variable.

```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH="value"
```

---

### Post by craq on 2009-08-14
the line in .profile says:
```
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/dislin/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
```

but you're right, it is only being set for the current shell. Starting a TTY seems to set LD_LIBRARY_PATH correctly - it echoes. But then I'm stuck in one shell, right? So I can't tell if its global?

Logging into the KDE environment still doesn't set the variable correctly. (Neither with the login splash screen nor with Ctrl-Alt-F7.)

(I've now removed the link from .bashrc to .profile, and run ```
. ~/.profile
``` in the current terminal if I need to.)

---

### Post by craq on 2009-08-18
from a more careful reading of the man bash page, I have found out about the --noprofile option, which would lead to the ~/.profile file being ignored. (I have since checked that a ~/.bash_profile file is also ignored.) However, my googling and trawling through system settings did not tell me where to find (and set) this option for my login. Does anybody know?

If I'm right about the --noprofile option, is this actually a KDE(4) issue and not ubuntu? Let me know and I'll repost it there.

---

