---
title: "Issues with getting &quot;Motion&quot; to work with network cameras."
date: 2012-05-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-05-25
After reading about Motion I figured it would be cool to set up my surveillance camera in motion detect mode with the help of Motion. I found this thread and figured it would be relatively easy.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1897786&highlight=motion](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1897786&highlight=motion)

The problem is, I can't seem to get the software to prefer my IP camera @ 192.168.1.10 over /dev/video0, which is the integrated camera on my laptop. Each time I run motion, the light for my webcam comes on, which confuses me because I have /dev/video0 commented out in the motion.conf file. At first I was working entirely out of the motion.conf file, since I only had one camera, but I'm likely going to be adding a 2nd camera, so I did a remove --purge motion and reinstalled it so I could get all new config files. I left motion.conf alone except for commenting /dev/video0 and uncommenting thread1.conf at the bottom, then I did most of my work in thread1.conf.

motion.conf:
```
# Rename this distribution example file to motion.conf
#
# This config file was generated by motion 3.2.12


############################################################
# Daemon
############################################################

# Start in daemon (background) mode and release terminal (default: off)
daemon off

# File to store the process ID, also called pid file. (default: not defined)
process_id_file /var/run/motion/motion.pid 

############################################################
# Basic Setup Mode
############################################################

# Start in Setup-Mode, daemon disabled. (default: off)
setup_mode off

###########################################################
# Capture device options
############################################################

# Videodevice to be used for capturing  (default /dev/video0)
# for FreeBSD default is /dev/bktr0
# videodevice /dev/video0

# v4l2_palette allows to choose preferable palette to be use by motion
# to capture from those supported by your videodevice. (default: 8)
# E.g. if your videodevice supports both V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR8 and
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_MJPEG then motion will by default use V4L2_PIX_FMT_MJPEG.
# Setting v4l2_palette to 1 forces motion to use V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR8
# instead.
#
# Values :
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_SN9C10X : 0  'S910'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_SBGGR8  : 1  'BA81'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_MJPEG   : 2  'MJPEG'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_JPEG    : 3  'JPEG'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_RGB24   : 4  'RGB3'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_UYVY    : 5  'UYVY'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_YUYV    : 6  'YUYV'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_YUV422P : 7  '422P'
# V4L2_PIX_FMT_YUV420  : 8  'YU12'
v4l2_palette 8

# Tuner device to be used for capturing using tuner as source (default /dev/tuner0)
# This is ONLY used for FreeBSD. Leave it commented out for Linux
; tunerdevice /dev/tuner0

# The video input to be used (default: 8)
# Should normally be set to 0 or 1 for video/TV cards, and 8 for USB cameras
input 8

# The video norm to use (only for video capture and TV tuner cards)
# Values: 0 (PAL), 1 (NTSC), 2 (SECAM), 3 (PAL NC no colour). Default: 0 (PAL)
norm 0

# The frequency to set the tuner to (kHz) (only for TV tuner cards) (default: 0)
frequency 0

# Rotate image this number of degrees. The rotation affects all saved images as
# well as mpeg movies. Valid values: 0 (default = no rotation), 90, 180 and 270.
rotate 0

# Image width (pixels). Valid range: Camera dependent, default: 352
width 320

# Image height (pixels). Valid range: Camera dependent, default: 288
height 240

# Maximum number of frames to be captured per second.
# Valid range: 2-100. Default: 100 (almost no limit).
framerate 2

# Minimum time in seconds between capturing picture frames from the camera.
# Default: 0 = disabled - the capture rate is given by the camera framerate.
# This option is used when you want to capture images at a rate lower than 2 per second.
minimum_frame_time 0

# URL to use if you are using a network camera, size will be autodetected (incl http:// ftp:// or file:///)
# Must be a URL that returns single jpeg pictures or a raw mjpeg stream. Default: Not defined
; netcam_url value

# Username and password for network camera (only if required). Default: not defined
# Syntax is user:password
; netcam_userpass value

# The setting for keep-alive of network socket, should improve performance on compatible net cameras.
# 1.0:         The historical implementation using HTTP/1.0, closing the socket after each http request.
# keep_alive:  Use HTTP/1.0 requests with keep alive header to reuse the same connection.
# 1.1:         Use HTTP/1.1 requests that support keep alive as default.
# Default: 1.0
; netcam_http 1.0

# URL to use for a netcam proxy server, if required, e.g. "http://myproxy".
# If a port number other than 80 is needed, use "http://myproxy:1234".
# Default: not defined
; netcam_proxy value 

# Set less strict jpeg checks for network cameras with a poor/buggy firmware.
# Default: off
netcam_tolerant_check off

# Let motion regulate the brightness of a video device (default: off).
# The auto_brightness feature uses the brightness option as its target value.
# If brightness is zero auto_brightness will adjust to average brightness value 128.
# Only recommended for cameras without auto brightness
auto_brightness off

# Set the initial brightness of a video device.
# If auto_brightness is enabled, this value defines the average brightness level
# which Motion will try and adjust to.
# Valid range 0-255, default 0 = disabled
brightness 0

# Set the contrast of a video device.
# Valid range 0-255, default 0 = disabled
contrast 0

# Set the saturation of a video device.
# Valid range 0-255, default 0 = disabled
saturation 0

# Set the hue of a video device (NTSC feature).
# Valid range 0-255, default 0 = disabled
hue 0


############################################################
# Round Robin (multiple inputs on same video device name)
############################################################

# Number of frames to capture in each roundrobin step (default: 1)
roundrobin_frames 1

# Number of frames to skip before each roundrobin step (default: 1)
roundrobin_skip 1

# Try to filter out noise generated by roundrobin (default: off)
switchfilter off


############################################################
# Motion Detection Settings:
############################################################

# Threshold for number of changed pixels in an image that
# triggers motion detection (default: 1500)
threshold 1500

# Automatically tune the threshold down if possible (default: off)
threshold_tune off

# Noise threshold for the motion detection (default: 32)
noise_level 32

# Automatically tune the noise threshold (default: on)
noise_tune on

# Despeckle motion image using (e)rode or (d)ilate or (l)abel (Default: not defined)
# Recommended value is EedDl. Any combination (and number of) of E, e, d, and D is valid.
# (l)abeling must only be used once and the 'l' must be the last letter.
# Comment out to disable
despeckle EedDl

# Detect motion in predefined areas (1 - 9). Areas are numbered like that:  1 2 3
# A script (on_area_detected) is started immediately when motion is         4 5 6
# detected in one of the given areas, but only once during an event.        7 8 9
# One or more areas can be specified with this option. (Default: not defined)
; area_detect value

# PGM file to use as a sensitivity mask.
# Full path name to. (Default: not defined)
; mask_file value

# Dynamically create a mask file during operation (default: 0)
# Adjust speed of mask changes from 0 (off) to 10 (fast)
smart_mask_speed 0

# Ignore sudden massive light intensity changes given as a percentage of the picture
# area that changed intensity. Valid range: 0 - 100 , default: 0 = disabled
lightswitch 0

# Picture frames must contain motion at least the specified number of frames
# in a row before they are detected as true motion. At the default of 1, all
# motion is detected. Valid range: 1 to thousands, recommended 1-5
minimum_motion_frames 1

# Specifies the number of pre-captured (buffered) pictures from before motion
# was detected that will be output at motion detection.
# Recommended range: 0 to 5 (default: 0)
# Do not use large values! Large values will cause Motion to skip video frames and
# cause unsmooth mpegs. To smooth mpegs use larger values of post_capture instead.
pre_capture 0

# Number of frames to capture after motion is no longer detected (default: 0)
post_capture 0

# Gap is the seconds of no motion detection that triggers the end of an event
# An event is defined as a series of motion images taken within a short timeframe.
# Recommended value is 60 seconds (Default). The value 0 is allowed and disables
# events causing all Motion to be written to one single mpeg file and no pre_capture.
gap 60

# Maximum length in seconds of an mpeg movie
# When value is exceeded a new mpeg file is created. (Default: 0 = infinite)
max_mpeg_time 0

# Always save images even if there was no motion (default: off)
output_all off


############################################################
# Image File Output
############################################################

# Output 'normal' pictures when motion is detected (default: on)
# Valid values: on, off, first, best, center
# When set to 'first', only the first picture of an event is saved.
# Picture with most motion of an event is saved when set to 'best'.
# Picture with motion nearest center of picture is saved when set to 'center'.
# Can be used as preview shot for the corresponding movie.
output_normal on

# Output pictures with only the pixels moving object (ghost images) (default: off)
output_motion off

# The quality (in percent) to be used by the jpeg compression (default: 75)
quality 75

# Output ppm images instead of jpeg (default: off)
ppm off


############################################################
# FFMPEG related options
# Film (mpeg) file output, and deinterlacing of the video input
# The options movie_filename and timelapse_filename are also used
# by the ffmpeg feature
############################################################

# Use ffmpeg to encode mpeg movies in realtime (default: off)
ffmpeg_cap_new on

# Use ffmpeg to make movies with only the pixels moving
# object (ghost images) (default: off)
ffmpeg_cap_motion off

# Use ffmpeg to encode a timelapse movie 
# Default value 0 = off - else save frame every Nth second
ffmpeg_timelapse 0

# The file rollover mode of the timelapse video
# Valid values: hourly, daily (default), weekly-sunday, weekly-monday, monthly, manual
ffmpeg_timelapse_mode daily

# Bitrate to be used by the ffmpeg encoder (default: 400000)
# This option is ignored if ffmpeg_variable_bitrate is not 0 (disabled)
ffmpeg_bps 500000

# Enables and defines variable bitrate for the ffmpeg encoder.
# ffmpeg_bps is ignored if variable bitrate is enabled.
# Valid values: 0 (default) = fixed bitrate defined by ffmpeg_bps,
# or the range 2 - 31 where 2 means best quality and 31 is worst.
ffmpeg_variable_bitrate 0

# Codec to used by ffmpeg for the video compression.
# Timelapse mpegs are always made in mpeg1 format independent from this option.
# Supported formats are: mpeg1 (ffmpeg-0.4.8 only), mpeg4 (default), and msmpeg4.
# mpeg1 - gives you files with extension .mpg
# mpeg4 or msmpeg4 - gives you files with extension .avi
# msmpeg4 is recommended for use with Windows Media Player because
# it requires no installation of codec on the Windows client.
# swf - gives you a flash film with extension .swf
# flv - gives you a flash video with extension .flv
# ffv1 - FF video codec 1 for Lossless Encoding ( experimental )
# mov - QuickTime ( testing )
ffmpeg_video_codec swf

# Use ffmpeg to deinterlace video. Necessary if you use an analog camera
# and see horizontal combing on moving objects in video or pictures.
# (default: off)
ffmpeg_deinterlace off


############################################################
# Snapshots (Traditional Periodic Webcam File Output)
############################################################

# Make automated snapshot every N seconds (default: 0 = disabled)
snapshot_interval 0


############################################################
# Text Display
# %Y = year, %m = month, %d = date,
# %H = hour, %M = minute, %S = second, %T = HH:MM:SS,
# %v = event, %q = frame number, %t = thread (camera) number,
# %D = changed pixels, %N = noise level, \n = new line,
# %i and %J = width and height of motion area,
# %K and %L = X and Y coordinates of motion center
# %C = value defined by text_event - do not use with text_event!
# You can put quotation marks around the text to allow
# leading spaces
############################################################

# Locate and draw a box around the moving object.
# Valid values: on, off and preview (default: off)
# Set to 'preview' will only draw a box in preview_shot pictures.
locate off

# Draws the timestamp using same options as C function strftime(3)
# Default: %Y-%m-%d\n%T = date in ISO format and time in 24 hour clock
# Text is placed in lower right corner
text_right %Y-%m-%d\n%T-%q

# Draw a user defined text on the images using same options as C function strftime(3)
# Default: Not defined = no text
# Text is placed in lower left corner
; text_left CAMERA %t

# Draw the number of changed pixed on the images (default: off)
# Will normally be set to off except when you setup and adjust the motion settings
# Text is placed in upper right corner
text_changes off

# This option defines the value of the special event conversion specifier %C
# You can use any conversion specifier in this option except %C. Date and time
# values are from the timestamp of the first image in the current event.
# Default: %Y%m%d%H%M%S
# The idea is that %C can be used filenames and text_left/right for creating
# a unique identifier for each event.
text_event %Y%m%d%H%M%S

# Draw characters at twice normal size on images. (default: off)
text_double off


############################################################
# Target Directories and filenames For Images And Films
# For the options snapshot_, jpeg_, mpeg_ and timelapse_filename
# you can use conversion specifiers
# %Y = year, %m = month, %d = date,
# %H = hour, %M = minute, %S = second,
# %v = event, %q = frame number, %t = thread (camera) number,
# %D = changed pixels, %N = noise level,
# %i and %J = width and height of motion area,
# %K and %L = X and Y coordinates of motion center
# %C = value defined by text_event
# Quotation marks round string are allowed.
############################################################

# Target base directory for pictures and films
# Recommended to use absolute path. (Default: current working directory)
target_dir /tmp/motion

# File path for snapshots (jpeg or ppm) relative to target_dir
# Default: %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-snapshot
# Default value is equivalent to legacy oldlayout option
# For Motion 3.0 compatible mode choose: %Y/%m/%d/%H/%M/%S-snapshot
# File extension .jpg or .ppm is automatically added so do not include this.
# Note: A symbolic link called lastsnap.jpg created in the target_dir will always
# point to the latest snapshot, unless snapshot_filename is exactly 'lastsnap'
snapshot_filename %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-snapshot

# File path for motion triggered images (jpeg or ppm) relative to target_dir
# Default: %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-%q
# Default value is equivalent to legacy oldlayout option
# For Motion 3.0 compatible mode choose: %Y/%m/%d/%H/%M/%S-%q
# File extension .jpg or .ppm is automatically added so do not include this
# Set to 'preview' together with best-preview feature enables special naming
# convention for preview shots. See motion guide for details
jpeg_filename %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-%q

# File path for motion triggered ffmpeg films (mpeg) relative to target_dir
# Default: %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S
# Default value is equivalent to legacy oldlayout option
# For Motion 3.0 compatible mode choose: %Y/%m/%d/%H%M%S
# File extension .mpg or .avi is automatically added so do not include this
# This option was previously called ffmpeg_filename
movie_filename %v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S

# File path for timelapse mpegs relative to target_dir
# Default: %Y%m%d-timelapse
# Default value is near equivalent to legacy oldlayout option
# For Motion 3.0 compatible mode choose: %Y/%m/%d-timelapse
# File extension .mpg is automatically added so do not include this
timelapse_filename %Y%m%d-timelapse


############################################################
# Live Webcam Server
############################################################

# The mini-http server listens to this port for requests (default: 0 = disabled)
webcam_port 8081

# Quality of the jpeg (in percent) images produced (default: 50) 
webcam_quality 50

# Output frames at 1 fps when no motion is detected and increase to the
# rate given by webcam_maxrate when motion is detected (default: off)
webcam_motion off

# Maximum framerate for webcam streams (default: 1)
webcam_maxrate 1

# Restrict webcam connections to localhost only (default: on)
webcam_localhost on

# Limits the number of images per connection (default: 0 = unlimited)
# Number can be defined by multiplying actual webcam rate by desired number of seconds
# Actual webcam rate is the smallest of the numbers framerate and webcam_maxrate
webcam_limit 0


############################################################
# HTTP Based Control
############################################################

# TCP/IP port for the http server to listen on (default: 0 = disabled)
control_port 8080

# Restrict control connections to localhost only (default: on)
control_localhost on

# Output for http server, select off to choose raw text plain (default: on)
control_html_output on

# Authentication for the http based control. Syntax username:password
# Default: not defined (Disabled)
; control_authentication username:password


############################################################
# Tracking (Pan/Tilt)
############################################################

# Type of tracker (0=none (default), 1=stepper, 2=iomojo, 3=pwc, 4=generic, 5=uvcvideo)
# The generic type enables the definition of motion center and motion size to
# be used with the conversion specifiers for options like on_motion_detected
track_type 0

# Enable auto tracking (default: off)
track_auto off

# Serial port of motor (default: none)
; track_port value

# Motor number for x-axis (default: 0)
track_motorx 0

# Motor number for y-axis (default: 0)
track_motory 0

# Maximum value on x-axis (default: 0)
track_maxx 0

# Maximum value on y-axis (default: 0)
track_maxy 0

# ID of an iomojo camera if used (default: 0)
track_iomojo_id 0

# Angle in degrees the camera moves per step on the X-axis
# with auto-track (default: 10)
# Currently only used with pwc type cameras
track_step_angle_x 10

# Angle in degrees the camera moves per step on the Y-axis
# with auto-track (default: 10)
# Currently only used with pwc type cameras
track_step_angle_y 10

# Delay to wait for after tracking movement as number
# of picture frames (default: 10)
track_move_wait 10

# Speed to set the motor to (stepper motor option) (default: 255)
track_speed 255

# Number of steps to make (stepper motor option) (default: 40)
track_stepsize 40


############################################################
# External Commands, Warnings and Logging:
# You can use conversion specifiers for the on_xxxx commands
# %Y = year, %m = month, %d = date,
# %H = hour, %M = minute, %S = second,
# %v = event, %q = frame number, %t = thread (camera) number,
# %D = changed pixels, %N = noise level,
# %i and %J = width and height of motion area,
# %K and %L = X and Y coordinates of motion center
# %C = value defined by text_event
# %f = filename with full path
# %n = number indicating filetype
# Both %f and %n are only defined for on_picture_save,
# on_movie_start and on_movie_end
# Quotation marks round string are allowed.
############################################################

# Do not sound beeps when detecting motion (default: on)
# Note: Motion never beeps when running in daemon mode.
quiet on

# Command to be executed when an event starts. (default: none)
# An event starts at first motion detected after a period of no motion defined by gap 
; on_event_start value

# Command to be executed when an event ends after a period of no motion
# (default: none). The period of no motion is defined by option gap.
; on_event_end value

# Command to be executed when a picture (.ppm|.jpg) is saved (default: none)
# To give the filename as an argument to a command append it with %f
; on_picture_save value

# Command to be executed when a motion frame is detected (default: none)
; on_motion_detected value

# Command to be executed when motion in a predefined area is detected
# Check option 'area_detect'.   (default: none)
; on_area_detected value

# Command to be executed when a movie file (.mpg|.avi) is created. (default: none)
# To give the filename as an argument to a command append it with %f
; on_movie_start value

# Command to be executed when a movie file (.mpg|.avi) is closed. (default: none)
# To give the filename as an argument to a command append it with %f
; on_movie_end value

# Command to be executed when a camera can't be opened or if it is lost
# NOTE: There is situations when motion doesn't detect a lost camera!
# It depends on the driver, some drivers don't detect a lost camera at all
# Some hang the motion thread. Some even hang the PC! (default: none)
; on_camera_lost value

############################################################
# Common Options For MySQL and PostgreSQL database features.
# Options require the MySQL/PostgreSQL options to be active also.
############################################################

# Log to the database when creating motion triggered image file  (default: on)
sql_log_image on

# Log to the database when creating a snapshot image file (default: on)
sql_log_snapshot on

# Log to the database when creating motion triggered mpeg file (default: off)
sql_log_mpeg off

# Log to the database when creating timelapse mpeg file (default: off)
sql_log_timelapse off

# SQL query string that is sent to the database
# Use same conversion specifiers has for text features
# Additional special conversion specifiers are
# %n = the number representing the file_type
# %f = filename with full path
# Default value:
# insert into security(camera, filename, frame, file_type, time_stamp, text_event) values('%t', '%f', '%q', '%n', '%Y-%m-%d %T', '%C')
sql_query insert into security(camera, filename, frame, file_type, time_stamp, event_time_stamp) values('%t', '%f', '%q', '%n', '%Y-%m-%d %T', '%C')


############################################################
# Database Options For MySQL
############################################################

# Mysql database to log to (default: not defined)
; mysql_db value

# The host on which the database is located (default: localhost)
; mysql_host value

# User account name for MySQL database (default: not defined)
; mysql_user value

# User password for MySQL database (default: not defined)
; mysql_password value


############################################################
# Database Options For PostgreSQL
############################################################

# PostgreSQL database to log to (default: not defined)
; pgsql_db value

# The host on which the database is located (default: localhost)
; pgsql_host value

# User account name for PostgreSQL database (default: not defined)
; pgsql_user value

# User password for PostgreSQL database (default: not defined)
; pgsql_password value

# Port on which the PostgreSQL database is located (default: 5432)
; pgsql_port 5432


############################################################
# Video Loopback Device (vloopback project)
############################################################

# Output images to a video4linux loopback device
# The value '-' means next available (default: not defined)
; video_pipe value

# Output motion images to a video4linux loopback device
# The value '-' means next available (default: not defined)
; motion_video_pipe value


##############################################################
# Thread config files - One for each camera.
# Except if only one camera - You only need this config file.
# If you have more than one camera you MUST define one thread
# config file for each camera in addition to this config file.
##############################################################

# Remember: If you have more than one camera you must have one
# thread file for each camera. E.g. 2 cameras requires 3 files:
# This motion.conf file AND thread1.conf and thread2.conf.
# Only put the options that are unique to each camera in the
# thread config files. 
thread /usr/local/etc/thread1.conf
; thread /usr/local/etc/thread2.conf
; thread /usr/local/etc/thread3.conf
; thread /usr/local/etc/thread4.conf

```

thread1.conf:
```
netcam_userpass user:password0
text_left BACKDOOR_CAM
netcam_url http://192.168.1.155:8000/video4.mjpg
target_dir /home/jason/motion/backdoor_cam
webcam_port 8081
```

Someone in the Motion IRC channel said my thread1.conf looked perfect. They didn't have anything else to say regarding it, but seemed confused over why it wasn't working.

In short, I just want to get this IP camera to get recognized by the software and for /dev/video0 to be off the radar from it. It seemed earlier on I was able to do that if the camera was set to port 80 and I used sudo motion, but I don't want to use port 80 and I don't want to use root, so I moved the port to 8000. Now it seems whether or not I use sudo with motion, the integrated laptop camera comes on regardless. Any insight? :confused:

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-05-25
Well, a quick update. I noticed the config file REFUSED to be acknowledged when I ran Motion, which I only realized when I ran it in some sort of debug mode (motion -c config or something?). I just got a slew of permissions denied errors. Turns out the motion.conf file had permissions of 600. I set them to 644, and suddenly everything worked. (owner read/write, group read, all others read)

Some reading of the documentation suggests that once netcam_url is in use, whether in the motion.conf file or within thread1.conf, etc., then /dev/video0 becomes unused. So by default, Motion seeks out /dev/video0 to use. If you have one camera, that is to be configured within motion.conf. If it's a network camera, adding the camera's URL (netcam_url [http://192.168.1.10/video4.mjpg](http://192.168.1.10/video4.mjpg) or whichever your's may be for your specific camera) will thereby make video0 inactive. The same is true if you have multiple cameras and begin adding more netcam_url entries (for each camera) in each thread1.conf, thread2.conf, etc.

In short:

motion.conf = for global settings that will effect all cameras OR for a single camera.
thread1.conf = for camera 1 in a multi camera environment
thread2.conf = for camera 2 in a multi camera environment
etc...

I was doing some testing with Motion, and so far, I'm REALLY liking it. It seems extremely responsive and predictable. I ended up setting the target_dir (where it saves files) to var/www/motion, so I can have an output listing of everything. What's nice is mixed in with the jpg's is a single .swf, which when played simply links all jpg's together in one single automated feed. I also found that when my camera goes into IR mode at night, it's a little less sensitive to pick up motion detection, so I changed the sensitivity settings (default is 1500 pixels) and lowered it significantly to only 250. I'm going to test this for a bit and see how much I like it. I'll have to figure out a good medium ground for night/day, but hey, I'd rather have way too many feeds than not enough if something really happened, especially considering I have the hard drive space to spare! 

For a CLI only program where I only had to edit a few key points in the config file, this thing seems pretty sweet so far.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-05-28
So, I'm curious about something. I see in the motion.conf file that you can customize the naming convention of the files being saved, which some users talked about as being beneficial as they can tag in the camera name to the naming convention. Okay, fine... but I also heard references of users configuring Motion to save the feeds based on the day. For example... Monday is rolling, so Motion is working as expected throughout the day detecting events and saving them. Midnight hits and the clock turns, and suddenly it's Tuesday. Motion creates a new directory and begins saving Tuesday's feed there, etc.

Anybody have any sort of idea how I can set that up, or if it's even easily possible?

---

### Post by Balyasin on 2012-05-28
You certainly have some agreeable opinions and views. ubuntuforums.org provides a fresh look at the subject.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-05-30
**[COLOR="Red"]ATTENTION: Read post 6 (just below) for more answers. A lot of what's in post 5 here is incorrect, but I didn't want to edit it out in case anybody finds themselves running down the same train of thought I did when I wrote this. Again, this post contains some errors. Refer to post 6 for further corrections.[/COLOR]**

All right, well... as you folks can see most of my issues were fixed by simply reading the config file more and understanding how Motion interacts with the other thread.conf files. So now that we're squared away there, I ran into a new issue. I'm on Ubuntu 12.04 64 bit.

I'm trying to run Motion in daemon mode, so that way if I need to kill the process and get it moving again, I can do so without needing to reboot the computer. Currently /etc/default/motion is set to yes, however there's also another daemon entry within /etc/motion/motion.conf, which is set to off. I turned it on thinking it would enable daemon mode (that's what it said anyway) but it refuses to run in daemon mode, citing I don't have permission to /var/run/motion. I looked and the permissions are 755 motion:motion.

The curve ball is, /etc/default/motion being set to "yes", along with "motion" set to run as a custom Startup Applications... it works fine... it's completely backgrounded and I see nothing running when I log in. This is good! But like I said, I want to be able to kill it and run it again if need be so I don't have to reboot the whole darn server...

On one hand, I could probably add myself to the motion group and run 775 permissions on /var/run/motion, but I'm basically questioning if this is normal or not. Shouldn't the application have handled this task? Are there any security issues with me doing that? I would think it'd be better to alter the permissions enough to I have access instead of running sudo motion... that could scream bad news since the file system is continually accessed and written to, and in that case it would be done so at a root level. Ehh.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-06-01
Some quick notes:

When you install Motion, it adds a new user named motion. That user is what the program is ran by. AKA, Motion (app) is ran as Motion (user). My problem above is I was investing so much time in running it as myself (jason) which clearly failed. That's why I had issues since I had no access to /var/run/motion, but motion (user) did.

No use in changing permissions/ownership to /var/run/motion. It's a tmpfs (temporary file system) that gets wiped when the system reboots.

Once you set Motion to "yes" within /etc/default/motion, it causes Motion to auto start (via /etc/init.d/motion) when the system fires up. As a result, you can control that service via sudo /etc/init.d/motion restart when already booted up and effectively keep the system running with Motion rebooted.

I was clearly making a mistake trying to make Motion run as myself with adding it to Gnome's Startup Applications (which runs as that user), etc.

Also - this is extremely important. Make sure the target_dir you set Motion to allows write access for the user "Motion". Again, Motion (app) runs as Motion (user), so Motion (user) must have write access. A ton of my problems came from my target_dir being 755 jason:jason. Once I did jason:motion 775, things worked great.

Moral of the story:

[LIST]
[*]Install Motion
[*]Edit (as root) motion.conf and the thread.conf files to your liking
[*]If you want Motion to auto start, set /etc/default/motion to "yes"
[*]If you need to reboot the service in mid use, use sudo /etc/init.d/motion start/stop/restart, etc. Don't launch it as simply "motion" in terminal (which launches it out of /usr/bin/motion, aka, yourself)
[*]Make sure your "Motion" user has 'rw' access to the target_dir
[/LIST]

:guitar:

---

### Post by JazzP on 2012-06-02
Hi Roasted, I am also enjoying playing around in linux ubuntu! Though not a newbie to linux, I just dont get enough time to play, so I guess I'm a bit of an "older" newbie!! :)

I found this site to help with motion.
[http://www.lavrsen.dk/foswiki/bin/view/Motion/WebHome](http://www.lavrsen.dk/foswiki/bin/view/Motion/WebHome)
 I think you'll find much to help there.
As for creating the directories for each hour/day, etc. the settings:-
jpeg_filename pictures/%Y%m%d/camera-%t/hour-%H/camera-%t-%v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-%q
and 
movie_filename video/%Y%m%d/camera-%t/hour-%H/camera-%t-%v-%Y%m%d%H%M%S-%q
work great for me.
I also changed from swf to mpeg: ffmpeg_video_codec mpeg4

I created a "motion" directory under my "/home/user" account, and write the files there.  (motion is the owner)
The problem I found is that motion runs on startup apps and writes files as root user.  so I greated 3 "shortcuts" on the taskbar, using the commands 
1) add a root terminal shortcut through the menu system or  "gksu /usr/bin/x-terminal-emulator",
2) "gksu /usr/bin/gedit" to edit the conf file, and 
3) a home folder shortcut "gksu nautilus %U" to delete/move files.  

My problem is that I bought a cat5 usb extender, it works great, but it  seems to be loosing the usb cam at irregular intervals! darn!
Otherwise I'm liking motion stacks!

I was going to try zoneminder a few months back, but it just would not work, and uses mysql, etc.  Much prefer motion!

Cheers for now.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-06-02
> **JazzP said:**
> 
The problem I found is that motion runs on startup apps and writes files as root user.  


I'm a little confused by this. If you're running motion in your startup applications, and launching it simply as "motion", it'll be running as you, so make sure wherever your target_dir is, YOU have access to.

If you run sudo motion, you'll be running Motion as root, which I've never been too confident with since it's continually saving data to your disks as root.

If you let Motion start on its own via daemon mode (which is done by setting "yes" within /etc/default/motion) it'll run as the user Motion, so like before, make sure wherever the target_dir is that "Motion" (the user) has full access to it so Motion can save accordingly. This is what burned me originally because I thought Motion wasn't running when I saw no feeds popping up even though I was dancing in front of the camera... this was because Motion didn't have write access, only read. Once fixed, it ran beautifully.

Currently I have Motion starting on its own via daemon mode. I don't have to touch anything and I know it'll start on its own. Even if I (under my user account) run sudo /etc/init.d/motion restart, it'll still run as Motion even though I'm using sudo in the command (just like any other service). I'm curious how exactly you're launching Motion that you had it running as root. In my experience when I ran into that, it's because I was running 'sudo motion'.

> **JazzP said:**
> 
I was going to try zoneminder a few months back, but it just would not work, and uses mysql, etc.  Much prefer motion!


I had mixed feelings on ZoneMinder. It's a love/hate thing, but mostly love. The fact it uses MySQL suggests it's a much heavier application, as it definitely could throw some spikes on my quad core server, whereas I can hardly tell Motion is there on the exact same box. I find Motion easy to set up, though it does require reading the manual a bit to get the jist of it. I felt the same way about ZoneMinder though too, since ZoneMinder requires quite a bit of fine tuning once installed to get it working with your cameras. At first I was really missing the web interface of ZoneMinder for playing back my clips, but I just installed Apache2, set my target_dir to /var/www/motion, then I can visit my servers URL/motion and bingo, I have everything right there. 

Even if I was working in a large environment with network based cameras, I think Motion would still serve nicely as a video surveillance system. Just create a thread.conf file for each camera, target_dir set to a specific directory for that camera, and you have everything segregated and organized accordingly.

So what exactly are you using Motion for? Are you using Motion for video surveillance or just tinkering around with it? Hey, thanks for the idea with the saving convention. I'll certainly give it a shot! :guitar:

---

### Post by arfiansyah on 2012-07-04
i have 4 ip camera, how to configure dlink ip camera in each of thread.conf??

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-07-04
> **arfiansyah said:**
> i have 4 ip camera, how to configure dlink ip camera in each of thread.conf??

Well, I wasn't too sure if I was doing things right the first time I set up my thread.conf file, so I just removed everything and only added in lines that I needed. It's worked great ever since, so I never changed it. For example, here's my thread1.conf file:

```
netcam_url http://192.168.1.151/video4.mjpg
netcam_userpass frank:corvette

```

That's it... otherwise the file is blank.

Word of advice - make backups before you alter your configs! Good luck!

---

### Post by arfiansyah on 2012-07-05
this is my thread1.conf configuration
```
netcam_url http://192.168.0.99/video.cgi

```

```
netcam_url http://192.168.0.99/video.jpg

```
i take the netcam_url from motion webhome, thats the url for dlink ip cameras..
but i still didnt see a picture or a video..

---

### Post by arfiansyah on 2012-07-06
a video from my netcam already showed in 
```

localhost:8081

```

how to access that link from other PC??
i didnt see anything in my windows webbrowser...
i'm using VM Ware...

---

### Post by Roasted on 2012-07-06
Localhost refers to 127.0.0.1, which is always the local loopback IP of whatever system you're working on. Substitute "localhost" for the local IP of the system on your LAN.

Example:

If your server's IP = 192.168.1.10

On client PC, [http://192.168.1.10:8081](http://192.168.1.10:8081)



Keep in mind, you'll need to find the exact URL to the stream on your camera. You'll need to reference your camera's user guide or try to find it on Google. For example, my camera's stream that I use with Motion ends with video4.mjpg, such as:

192.168.1.155/video4.mjpg

It's different with each camera, so it's likely the above won't work... just have to check the manual and see what you can find, then use that with Motion for the netcam_url.

---

### Post by arfiansyah on 2012-07-06
> **Roasted said:**
> Localhost refers to 127.0.0.1, which is always the local loopback IP of whatever system you're working on. Substitute "localhost" for the local IP of the system on your LAN.

Example:

If your server's IP = 192.168.1.10

On client PC, [http://192.168.1.10:8081](http://192.168.1.10:8081)



Keep in mind, you'll need to find the exact URL to the stream on your camera. You'll need to reference your camera's user guide or try to find it on Google. For example, my camera's stream that I use with Motion ends with video4.mjpg, such as:

192.168.1.155/video4.mjpg

It's different with each camera, so it's likely the above won't work... just have to check the manual and see what you can find, then use that with Motion for the netcam_url.

my ubuntu ip is 192.168.0.10 and here is my threadx.conf
```

# thread1.conf
netcam_url 192.168.0.161/cgi-bin/video.jpg
text_left camera1
target_dir home/me/motion/cam1
webcam_port 8081

# thread2.conf
netcam_url 192.168.0.145/cgi-bin/video.jpg
text_left camera2
target_dir home/me/motion/cam2
webcam_port 8082

```in my ubuntu, it's working. i can see both videos in localhost:8081 & localhost:8082
but when i try in windows(client), i can't see the videos..
to make sure the network is working, i've ping from windows to ubuntu,ubuntu to windows and also ping to every my camera..there's no problem in my connection..
is there any configuration to make the client can access the server??

---

