---
title: "9.04 NBR: desktop directory won't show on physical desktop"
date: 2009-07-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by emstark on 2009-07-09
So this one is a bit weird:

I recently upgraded my eee 1000 to 9.04 NBR from eeebuntu.  Im using the more classic desktop (not the netbook-y one) and all is well in the world except for a few bugs which I easily worked out except for this one.

Whenever I boot up, my desktop directory does not display on my workspace.  I made sure that ~/.config/user-dirs.dirs was configured correctly to link to my Desktop directory and still nothing. I couldn't even right-click on the desktop to change the background or create a folder.

 Finally, i went to empty my trash folder (by clicking on the icon in the lower gnome panel) and when i closed the file browser window, BAM i had my desktop. Fully functional in all its glory.  I've rebooted and tried many different combinations of actions (navigating to the trash via a new file browser window, clicking the show desktop icon in the panel, redoing the entire bottom panel, etc.) and NONE of them work.  It will only show up when i click the trash panel icon.

II was wondering if anyone has any suggestions...NBR is really pretty awesome except for this!

Also, in the interest of full disclosure, I moved my entire home directory to the 32gb ssd on the computer (eee 1000s come with a 8gb ssd and a 32gb ssd, so the OS is on the 8gb and my home is on the 32gb).  I've made sure to make all files owned by me on the new home directory after mounting my ssd to /home as root

---

