---
title: "Crontab not working for me, please help."
date: 2008-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by D0T-C0M on 2008-05-26
Let me say first off I have been searching the forums here and on the net for the last 3 days.

I have setup an eggdrop on a user account "nascar".  My script checks to see if eggdrop is running and if not starts the program. I know the script is working manually with no problems but crontab doesn't seem to be running it at the specified times. I want my script to run every 5 min. 
> nascar@ubuntu:~/bot1$ crontab -l
0,5,10,15,20,25,30,35,40,45,50,55 * * * * /home/nascar/bot1/XoX.botchk >/dev/null 2>&1

I checked to see if my script is being accessed by typing 
ls -lut XoX.botchk
but the script doesn't seem to be accessed at all in the last 24hrs when it should be run every 5 minutes.

Does anyone have any ideas as to why this doesn't work?

---

### Post by Gunman1982 on 2008-05-26
If you want to see if your script gives any errors then change /dev/null into /home/[user]/crontab-script.log so you can check what happens. In addition it would be helpfull to see the script and keep in mind that when a script is executed by the cron the $PATH variable is not set so all commands (i.e. chown) won't be found except they are used with absolute path (i.e. /bin/chown).

---

### Post by D0T-C0M on 2008-05-26
> **Gunman1982 said:**
> If you want to see if your script gives any errors then change /dev/null into /home/[user]/crontab-script.log so you can check what happens. In addition it would be helpfull to see the script and keep in mind that when a script is executed by the cron the $PATH variable is not set so all commands (i.e. chown) won't be found except they are used with absolute path (i.e. /bin/chown).

Thanks Gunman1982 for your comment. Is cron any different in Ubuntu 7.10 that Mandrake and Redhat? I've been running this particular script since 2004 on many many different distros of Linux and I've never had any problems with it before but here is the script in question. I tried setting the crontab-script.log like you suggested and I haven't gotten an entry in the last 15 mins. Its supposed to go every 5 min. Even if there is a problem with the script, wouldn't I at least see that the script was last accessed when I run ls -lut XoX.botchk ? 

> #! /bin/sh
#
# XoX.botchk (generated on November 01, 2004 @ 08:16AM)
#
# Generated by AutoBotchk 1.09.1
# Copyright (C) 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002 Jeff Fisher <guppy@eggheads.org>
#

# change this to the directory you run your bot from:
botdir="/home/nascar/bot1"

# change this to the name of your bot's script in that directory:
botscript="eggdrop sample.nfo"

# change this to the nickname of your bot (capitalization COUNTS)
botname="XoX"

# change this to the name of your bot's userfile (capitalization COUNTS)
userfile="sample.user"

# change this to the name of your bot's pidfile (capitalization COUNTS)
pidfile="pid.XoX"

########## you probably don't need to change anything below here ##########

cd $botdir

# is there a pid file?
if test -r $pidfile
then
  # there is a pid file -- is it current?
  botpid=`cat $pidfile`
  if `kill -CHLD $botpid >/dev/null 2>&1`
  then
    # it's still going -- back out quietly
    exit 0
  fi
  echo ""
  echo "Stale $pidfile file, erasing..."
  rm -f $pidfile
fi

if test -r CANTSTART.$botname
then
  if test -r $userfile || test -r $userfile~new || test -r $userfile~bak
  then
    echo ""
    echo "Userfile found, removing check file 'CANTSTART.$botname'..."
    rm -f CANTSTART.$botname
  fi
fi

# test if we have run botchk previously and didn't find a userfile
if test ! -f CANTSTART.$botname
then
  echo ""
  echo "Couldn't find bot '$botname' running, reloading..."
  echo ""
  # check for userfile and reload bot if found
  if test -r $userfile
  then
    # It's there, load the bot
    ./$botscript
    exit 0
  else
    if test -r $userfile~new
    then
      # Bot f*@!ed up while saving the userfile last time.  Move it over.
      echo "Userfile missing.  Using last saved userfile..."
      mv -f $userfile~new $userfile
      ./$botscript
      exit 0
    else
      if test -r $userfile~bak
      then
        # Userfile is missing, use backup userfile.
        echo "Userfile missing.  Using backup userfile..."
        cp -f $userfile~bak $userfile
        ./$botscript
        exit 0
      else
        # Well, nothing to work with...
        echo "No userfile.  Could not reload the bot..."
        echo "no userfile" > CANTSTART.$botname
        exit 1
      fi
    fi
  fi
fi

exit 0

---

### Post by ikkubus on 2008-05-26
restart crond maybe....

---

### Post by Gunman1982 on 2008-05-26
You can check if cron is running with 'ps aux | grep cron'. If its not showing up do a 'sudo /etc/init.d/cron start'

cron should be the same on those systems, maybe different version but should be same behaviour.

---

### Post by D0T-C0M on 2008-05-26
Well I just added the files /etc/cron.allow and /etc/cron.deny and put the user in question in the cron.allow file, restarted cron and everything works now.

---

### Post by ikkubus on 2008-05-26
u can use crontab -e to edit cron job. then restart..

---

