---
title: "11.10 ATI Drivers Not Working"
date: 2011-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by clyon1 on 2011-11-30
Hello,

I have got myself into an unfortunate situation.  I was trying to run dual monitors and noticed that which ever monitor I plugged in with the HDMI cable had about a 1 inch black border around it.  I could not find any settings that would make that monitor use the entire screen.  So I started messing around with the ATI drivers and now have made it so that as soon as the computer boots up I loose signal to the monitor.

When I first installed Ubuntu I was using the open source ATI drivers and it worked, and not to long after that I loaded the ATI fglrx drivers and they also worked.  For some reason I thought that maybe if I reverted back to the open source drivers following the instructions on [this page]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:__Need_to_fully_remove_-fglrx_and_reinstall_-ati_from_scratch") I would maybe have an option to set the downscaling because after doing some research that seemed to be the issue.

Well, after that I can't get my computer to boot into the home screen at all.  About half way through the screen that says Ubuntu with the 5 or so progress dots my screen just goes black and then I get the no signal message on the monitor.  I can how ever get it to boot to the command line.

Sorry for the long winded question, but I wanted to give the background.  Can anyone help me trouble shoot this issue and get my ATI drivers back to normal?  PS. I am a newbie to Linux.

Computer Specs:
OS: Ubuntu 11.10 (64 bit)
Processor: AMD Phenom 2 X6
Motherboard: Gigabyte 890GPA-UD3H with onboard ATI Radeon HD 4290 graphics

---

### Post by clyon1 on 2011-11-30
I have been hacking away at this for the past couple hours and wanted to post a quick update.  I found a step on [this post]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/68306/how-do-i-restore-default-video-drivers") "Remove your xorg.conf" which after I completed this I was able to get back into the desktop as normal.

And the interesting thing is that the monitor connected via HDMI did not have the black border on the screen and was at full width.  However, I could not use dual monitors because it didn't recognize that two monitors where connected even though both monitors were on just showing the same thing. I then went ahead and installed the fglrx ATI drivers to see if I could get dual monitors to work and see if the black border came back.  The answer is that the black boarder did come back, and I get an error when I try to uncheck the mirror check box to enable dual monitors "The selected configuration for displays could not be applied. required virtual size does not fit available size: requested=(3840, 1080), minimum=(320, 200), maximum=(1920, 1920)"

So I now have two issues:
1) How do I get dual monitors working? 
2) If I have to use fglrx drivers how do I get the black border to go away on the one using HDMI?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-11-30
I have much the same ATI chipset with 11.10, and unlike with previous Ubuntu versions, have found the open-source drivers to be good enough to NOT need to go through the hassle of installing the fglrx drivers -- especially since the ones from the repos don't work.

To get multiple displays, go through System Settings --> Display.

You will see a check box about Mirroring, make sure that is unchecked.

If you have two different size displays, and you want the larger one to be on the left, then go up into the top area of the Display panel and drag the smaller image to the right of the larger image.

After that, you should be able to set the resolution of each panel individually.

---

### Post by clyon1 on 2011-11-30
Ok, so I went into 'Additional Drivers' and deactivated the fglrx drivers, rebooted and the black border on my HDMI monitor did go away.  

But when I go into System Settings --> Display Ubuntu is only detecting one of the monitors and no information about it.  The 'Mirror Displays' check box isn't available to select or de-select.  However both monitors are working, and are mirrored. See images attached.

I have two identical Sceptre 24" monitors.  When I was using the fglrx drivers it would show two monitors and the information about them. 

Is there a way to know for sure I'm using the open-source drivers? I'm afraid maybe I messed them up somehow.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-11-30
It shows two displays -- and the mirror box is not checked.

What I would try is selecting the "green" box in the display area at the top of the panel and dragging it to the left of the "orange" box.

Then save, logoff, log back on -- and see if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by clyon1 on 2011-11-30
Sorry, I think my last post was a little confusing.

The image that shows two monitors is when I have the fglrx drivers activated.  But when I de-select mirroring and hit apply I get an error message (Image attached).  

So I uninstalled the fglrx driver as you suggested and that is the image that shows only one monitor. 

So I'm wondering if there is a way to ensure I'm using the correct open-source ATI drivers?

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-12-01
Sorry ... misunderstood the screen shot.

The open-source drivers are installed by default.  If they were the wrong ones, you would not get a graphical desktop.

You may not be able to see two monitor with the open-source drivers because, presuming that you are using one card/chipset, those drivers may not support the 2-port combination you're using.

For example, on my PC, I have DVI, HDMI, and VGA video connectors.  I can run two monitors, one on DVI, the other on VGA, on the open source drivers, but if I switch the VGA connection to HDMI, it only sees one monitor.

You may have to use the fglrx drivers to use the port combination you want.

---

### Post by clyon1 on 2011-12-05
I will have to buy a DVI cable and see if that works.  

If not I will see if I can find a way to fix the black boarder on the HDMI monitor when using the fglrx drivers.

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2011-12-05
If you use the fglrx drivers, you also need to use the Catalyst Control Center for monitor adjustments. The black borders can be fixed by using the "Overscan" adjuster in Catalyst Control Center. To set up dual monitors you also use the Catalyst Control Center, but I found that the dual setup wouldn't work in Unity, so I installed the KDE desktop packages and logged into a KDE session for the dual setup. After that had working dual monitors in all my installed desktop sessions (KDE,Unity,Xfce,Openbox). You also probably need have admin powers to make adjustments in CCC, so open as admin the CCC from a command line:
```
sudo amdcccle
```
or
```
gksudo amdcccle
```
or, if running in a KDE session
```
kdesudo amdcccle
```

---

### Post by clyon1 on 2012-02-10
Just wanted to give a quick update.

I purchased an HDMI cable, and both monitors would turn on but only in mirror mode. I had the FGLRX drivers installed at the time. So I went through the process of removing them, and now I'm back to the standard drivers and everything is working perfectly.

Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by Rebelli0us on 2012-02-10
> **clyon1 said:**
> Hello,

I have got myself into an unfortunate situation.  I was trying to run dual monitors and noticed that which ever monitor I plugged in with the HDMI cable had about a 1 inch black border around it.  I could not find any settings that would make that monitor use the entire screen.  So I started messing around with the ATI drivers and now have made it so that as soon as the computer boots up I loose signal to the monitor.

When I first installed Ubuntu I was using the open source ATI drivers and it worked, and not to long after that I loaded the ATI fglrx drivers and they also worked.  For some reason I thought that maybe if I reverted back to the open source drivers following the instructions on [this page]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver#Problem:__Need_to_fully_remove_-fglrx_and_reinstall_-ati_from_scratch") I would maybe have an option to set the downscaling because after doing some research that seemed to be the issue.

Well, after that I can't get my computer to boot into the home screen at all.  About half way through the screen that says Ubuntu with the 5 or so progress dots my screen just goes black and then I get the no signal message on the monitor.  I can how ever get it to boot to the command line.

Sorry for the long winded question, but I wanted to give the background.  Can anyone help me trouble shoot this issue and get my ATI drivers back to normal?  PS. I am a newbie to Linux.

Computer Specs:
OS: Ubuntu 11.10 (64 bit)
Processor: AMD Phenom 2 X6
Motherboard: Gigabyte 890GPA-UD3H with onboard ATI Radeon HD 4290 graphics

I have the same mobo as you. The proprietary AMD video driver works but randomly freezes the OS. The open source driver is rock solid. 

Also the Linux driver used to be an energy hog, consuming 10-15 watts more at idle, but the new open source driver is very efficient.

---

