---
title: "xUbuntu 13.04"
date: 2013-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zoomiest on 2013-05-09
I just did the upgrade to xUbuntu 13.04 and now, at least once or twice a day, when I go to open an application - today it was Firefox - xUbuntu logs me out of everything, and all my open apps are nuked.

This is a far cry from the super-stable xUbuntu 12 .... help!!!! This is my work computer!

- Zoomiest

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2013-05-09
Did you already look into the system log file if there are any errors recorded? Do you receive an error message upon the crash or are you just kicked out of the desktop? Does that happen with a particular kind of application?

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2013-05-09
Ubuntu provides vital information using various system log files. These log files are typically plain ASCII text in a standard log file format, and most of them sit in the traditional system log subdirectory **/var/log**. Many are generated by the system log daemon, syslogd on behalf of the system and certain applications, while some applications generate their own logs by writing directly to files in **/var/log**.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-05-09
If it is a work computer you should have stuck with the LTS release, 12.04 LTS. That is what they are intended for; servers and production machines that need to be stable and often on 24/7. Also five year support (April 2017). Was there a reason you upgraded? Newer driver in the 13.04 kernel? My adage: If it ain't broke don't fix it. ;) 

13.04 has only been out for a week or two and while it may work fine on some/many machines issues on and off for a month or two shouldn't be unexpected as things settle.  

Incidentally, sorry to say there is no downgrading, only a full install.

PS: Sometimes upgrading through the Update Manager, if that's how you did it, can be problematic and give life to all kinds of strange quirks. I find a clean install best. Do you have some of the old repositories still enabled if you did an upgrade through the Update Manager?

---

### Post by foresto on 2013-06-04
> **zoomiest said:**
> I just did the upgrade to xUbuntu 13.04 and now, at least once or twice a day, when I go to open an application - today it was Firefox - xUbuntu logs me out of everything, and all my open apps are nuked.

I have the same problem. This behavior looks very much like an X server crash.

It has happened 4-5 times for me in the couple of days since upgrading, always when I started interacting with an application. In at least two cases (maybe every case; I can't remember) it was when I brought a different window into focus.

When I log back in, apport reports several program crashes. I suspect most or all of them are side-effects of the X server suddenly disappearing, rather than the cause.

I'm using Xubuntu amd64 with the proprietary nVidia driver. So far, I have tried nvidia-310 (official ubuntu repository), nvidia-313-updates (official ubuntu repository), and nvidia-319 (xorg-edgers ppa). The crashes have occured with all of them. I have not yet tried the open source driver, but it's worth noting that my system was perfectly stable using nvidia-310 before I upgraded from Quantal to Raring.

I haven't spotted a smoking gun in /var/log/syslog or /var/log/Xorg.0.log yet.

---

### Post by foresto on 2013-06-04
Update: This xfce4-session bug could be the culprit:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-session/+bug/1104435](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-session/+bug/1104435)

[https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=9709](https://bugzilla.xfce.org/show_bug.cgi?id=9709)

A possible fix is now in the raring-proposed repository for testing.

---

