---
title: "17.10 (Artful Aardvark) Known bugs and work-a-rounds"
date: 2017-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2017-10-21
It seems I missed this, the last release, so here we are again with the latest release, Artful Aardvark (17.10). Unity has been dropped as the default desktop environment, with Gnome-shell taking it's place.

Canonical has done a great job integrating some customization into Gnome-shell, but that also brings along a few problems. You can use either Xorg or Wayland when you log in, but you should be aware that Wayland will not work with proprietory drivers (Nvidia) you need to run the Nouveau drivers if you want to use it.

Using Wayland causes problems with authentication. Synaptic, or using application as a root will not work unless you open a terminal and type the following command:

```
xhost +si:localuser:root
```

This will only work for the current session, so after a reboot you'll have to run the command again.

So far there isn't any other work-a-round to make the setting stick.

Automatic login not working:
  
  1. in *Settings->Details->User* switch off automatic login
  2. then log off
  3. Log back in
  4. Re-enable automatic login
  5. Reboot

**Note:** If you have a problem and don't have a solution, don't post anything here. Create a new thread for help with your problem.

---

### Post by amano on 2017-10-21
Nvidia doesn't support VDPAU on Wayland. If you need video acceleration on nvidia cards, you should stick with the X.org session.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2017-10-21
Totem movie play back is broken in Wayland though works in the Ubuntu on Xorg session . Work around for playing movies is Wayland is VLC on my machine.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-10-21
If upgrade from 17.04 to 17.10 and have no internet, try

> credit beameup: This link:```
https://askubuntu.com/questions/622470/dns-probe-finished-bad-config-error-in-ubuntu-14-04/622493#622493
```


Which says:
[QUOTE]I solved this error by deleting /etc/resolv.conf and recreating the symbolic link.


You can do that using the following commands:


```
sudo rm /etc/resolv.conf
sudo ln -s ../run/resolvconf/resolv.conf /etc/resolv.conf
sudo resolvconf -u
```


execute those lines one at a time
I added 
```
sudo service network-manager restart
```[/QUOTE]

worked for me!

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-10-21
Note: I boot "Gnome on xorg" (choose in icon at password box) as I am running 387.x Nvidia driver.

status icons on top bar:
Couldn't get these.

[COLOR=#000000]fix:
[/COLOR](in Gnome 3.26, bottom status bar is no more and icons are moved to top bar.)

[COLOR=#000000]I had uninstalled kstatusnotifieritem hoping that would help(I had it from 17.04)(had Software uninstall it). It didn't help.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Now I read that it is intentionally packaged with 17.10 Gnome.[/COLOR]
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/08/u...s-ubuntu-17-10]("http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2017/08/ubuntu-sees-sense-will-support-indicator-applets-ubuntu-17-10")
[COLOR=#000000]So I just put it back on with the extension link from the above link.[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]So it has been uninstalled and installed since upgrade from 17.04 . I think this is important.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Now I can dependably boot and have both system monitor and status icons appear on the desktop top bar.[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Interestingly software doesn't think it is installed, whereas before it did.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]What is [/COLOR]_**off**_[COLOR=#000000] in tweak extensions in screenshot is very important. (I later deleted 2 topicon extensions w no prob. .local/share/gnome-shell/extensions/  )[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-10-21
Gnome desktop icons huge - start nautilus (files) , click settings (3 horizontal bars), click minus sign - you'll get the idea!

---

### Post by ncweber on 2017-10-23
> **cariboo said:**
> Using Wayland causes problems with authentication. Synaptic, or using application as a root will not work unless you open a terminal and type the following command:

```
xhost +si:localuser:root
```

This will only work for the current session, so after a reboot you'll have to run the command again.

So far there isn't any other work-a-round to make the setting stick.

I read about this on the Fedora 25 forums.  If you place this code line in Startup Applications, that will give the effect of permanence.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2017-10-26
New display problem in Artful ...

I have a third desktop monitor connected through a USB box

Under Mint, it was very laggy, so much so that I turned off that monitor.  But, it worked fine under Zesty.

Now under Artful, turning on that monitor caused Ubuntu to crash the display, forcing me to restart.  So, things have gone from bad to worse.

I did also notice that attempting to run Gnome-Commander as Root failed -- but I see there is a thread at the beginning of this section about new Root problems with Artful.  In my case, installing "gksu" fixed that problem.

---

### Post by cdoublejj on 2017-10-27
good night that seems like a pretty serious bug, i just nuked my install after several hours of setup once i realized root wasn't working, thought i fat fingered the setup. at least it's a free OS.

Let me state that the root bug is present in Lubuntu as well but, no display problems so far being as it's LXDE and X. HOWEVER "xhost +si:localuser:root" doens't appear to resolve the problem.

---

### Post by ulysses77 on 2017-10-28
Apparently, after a recent update, there has been an issue with users logging in and getting past the login screen into the actual session. A solution to get into the system, albeit ridding any applied preferences, use: 

rm -rf /home/yourusername/.config/dconf/user

---

### Post by AvatarGG on 2017-10-28
> **cariboo said:**
> 
Automatic login not working:
  
  1. in *Settings->Details->User* switch off automatic login
  2. then log off
  3. Log back in
  4. Re-enable automatic login
  5. Reboot

This does NOT work for me.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2017-10-28
> **AvatarGG said:**
> This does NOT work for me.

If the solution doesn't work for you, create a new thread, as this thread is here for posting known bugs and work-arounds, not for diagnosing problems.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2017-11-01
> **cariboo said:**
> Using Wayland causes problems with authentication. Synaptic, or using application as a root will not work unless you open a terminal and type the following command:

```
xhost +si:localuser:root
```

This will only work for the current session, so after a reboot you'll have to run the command again.

So far there isn't any other work-a-round to make the setting stick.


Several ways to solve this problem are shown at the following link to AskUbuntu,

[Why don't gksu/gksudo or launching a graphical application with sudo work with Wayland? - Question](https://askubuntu.com/questions/961967/why-dont-gksu-gksudo-or-launching-a-graphical-application-with-sudo-work-with-w)

The next link shows a method, that provides temporary access for root to the Wayland desktop via a **function gks** or a **shellscript gks** and desktop file that belongs to it.

[Why don't gksu/gksudo or launching a graphical application with sudo work with Wayland? - Answer by sudodus](https://askubuntu.com/questions/961967/why-dont-gksu-gksudo-or-launching-a-graphical-application-with-sudo-work-with-w/961978#961978)

and there is a new Ubuntu wiki page, where you can upload the files to install **gks**,

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Wayland/gks](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Wayland/gks)

---

### Post by stepheny on 2017-11-03
Are there any disadvantages/problems with using "xhost +si:localuser:root"? I am thinking of possible permission problems.

---

### Post by biz122 on 2017-11-16
If you are experiencing a jerky and **precision-less** touchpad on XPS13 9360, look here: [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2375812](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2375812)

---

### Post by stepheny on 2017-11-29
With 17.10 the default video player Totem doesn't display video on Wayland. As a workaround you can either run Ubuntu 17.10 on Xorg where Totem works or set VLC to be the default video player on Ubuntu on Wayland.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2017-12-29
Scanner support in 17.10 appears sketchy. I have two MFDs, a Samsung SL-M2870 and Brother MFC-6490CW. Both work as expected on 16.04 using the manufacturer provided drivers. Neither works on 17.10 but VueScan does so they're not bricks. There are commonly known fixes for Brother that appear to have no effect on 17.10.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-01-13
The 17.10 and 16.04 Buntus had a bug which could damage the UEFI hardware on certain newer computers, mainly Lenovo.

The solution is only booting [17.10.1]("http://releases.ubuntu.com/17.10.1/").

---

### Post by kde416 on 2018-01-27
Logitech webcams (C270, C200) and distortion, chipmunk voice:
if you hear chipmunk voice when record audio or speak in voice messenger, solution can be:
edit /etc/pulse/daemon.conf
and change
> ;default-sample-rate = 44100
to
> default-sample-rate = 16000

---

### Post by kapad on 2018-03-04
> **Mark Phelps said:**
> New display problem in Artful ...

I have a third desktop monitor connected through a USB box

Under Mint, it was very laggy, so much so that I turned off that monitor.  But, it worked fine under Zesty.

Now under Artful, turning on that monitor caused Ubuntu to crash the display, forcing me to restart.  So, things have gone from bad to worse.

I did also notice that attempting to run Gnome-Commander as Root failed -- but I see there is a thread at the beginning of this section about new Root problems with Artful.  In my case, installing "gksu" fixed that problem.

Did you manage to find a fix to the crashing? I think [this issue]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2386327") that I just posted about is related (or probable the exact same issue).

---

