---
title: "mouse pointer disappearing in wine"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by clauswilson on 2010-05-10
At links the mouse pointer disappears within Internet Explorer 6.0. I just updated to the latest version of ubuntu which run like a charm. This problem however is annoying.
I can press Ctrl to see the pointer but the fact is it should never disappear.
I do have problems with the graphics (Intel 4500) which sometimes at reproducable cases stops responding. (When trying to update graphically and having to answer a question in a child window to the main window).
Is this problem a wine setting or something with x11 or compiz or ??

---

### Post by clauswilson on 2010-05-10
My problem should be solved on setting 
	Option		"SWCursor" "true"
in the Device section
but it isn't. Here is my X11 file /etc/X11/xorg.conf
I am running 10.04. I think that has something to say also.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"SWCursor" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

