---
title: "Chrome/Chromium/midori webkit browser slow. Here is a fix."
date: 2009-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Duskao on 2009-11-06
Hey guys. Like many of you I had issues with Chromium/Chrome/Midori and other webkit browsers being slow. Or having the "resolving host" issue. I found a couple pages that helped me out. Unfortunately I don't have the addy's for all of them so I will summarize. 

1. Try going into the (Chromium/Chrome) wrench in upper right corner of browser and choose options->Under the Hood. Then uncheck Use DNS. 
This might help some of you, it seems to have worked for lots of people out there, but not for me. 

2. Open up a terminal and enter "sudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf" (minus the quotes)
after entering your root password you should see something similar to this (you might only have 1 or two nameservers, I however had 3 but only showing one, and a fake)

# Generated by NetworkManager
domain DNS
search DNS
nameserver 192.168.2.1
nameserver xx.xx.xxx.xxx

I had to play with this a bit to get it to work. For some this worked, but once again, not for me.

# Generated by NetworkManager
#domain DNS
#search DNS
nameserver 192.168.2.1
nameserver xx.xx.xxx.xxx

Finally what worked for me was...

# Generated by NetworkManager
#domain DNS
#search DNS
#nameserver 192.168.2.1
nameserver xx.xx.xxx.xxx

I tried a mix of the # before each nameserver before I found the one that worked for me. If you put a # in front of all your nameserver's you will not have a connection to the web so always keep one free from the # in front. 

I really hope this helps you guys out if you are having the same issue as I was. Now my Chromium browser is super/ultra fast again and once again my default as it was in 9.04. Best of luck to all.

---

### Post by Duskao on 2009-11-06
Oh yeah, forgot to mention. When using this fix only change the # or remove it. Don't change anything else just the #.

---

### Post by GAZ082 on 2009-11-09
This works like a CHARM. If you have deadly slow internet connection and on Windows is blazing fast, try this. No matter what rendering engine, is a problem related to the nameservers, the browser tries to look first at the domains listed in the file and if they are dead, will move to the next one, but in the meantime, waits some seconds, that's why the connection has the impression to be sluggish.

AWESOME. :KS:KS:KS:KS:KS solution.

---

### Post by drbraniac on 2009-12-31
I found that disabling IPv6 system-wide on Karmic was what worked for me, as per the instructions posted [here]("http://www.webupd8.org/2009/11/how-to-disable-ipv6-in-ubuntu-910.html") by webupd8.org. As noted in the post, though, the "hard" way might be a little risky if you mistype something in grub. 

After editing grub to disable ipv6 and restarting my laptop, Midori and Epiphany (both webkit-based) worked as fast as they did before on Jaunty.

---

### Post by bsautner on 2011-04-29
nice. Confirmed, chromium on unbutu 11.04 x64 slow as a dog until i edited resolved.conf as you specified.

- Ben
[www.nimbits.com](www.nimbits.com)

---

### Post by scarleo on 2011-10-31
I also had problems with uselessly slow Chromium, I however edited /etc/nsswitch.conf instead to change the order of the line: 
hosts: files mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

to:
hosts: files dns mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=retutrn] mdns4

Now it's back up to speed!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-10-31
Closed, please don't bump old threads.

---

