---
title: "10.10 fails to shutdown"
date: 2011-02-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2011-02-21
Recently upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 all fine except on one machine which will not shutdown from gnome, however it will restart. Only option is to press the power button, which sometimes leaves the numlock light active on the keyboard and sometimes doesn't.

I've looked at other posts and seen similar faults with earlier versions and tried the solutions even though I had no problems until the upgrade (reverting to APM from ACPI) and forcing ACPI but no use. I don't need any fancy features it's either on or (sometimes) off.

Any ideas on what to do?

Kernal 2.6.35-25-generic
SuperMicro X8ST3-F MB v1.0b (board was Ubuntu Compatible with earlier releases)
i7 920 CPU at 2.66GHz
6GB Ram
AMI BIOS v2.63 with
ACPI [enabled]

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-02-21
Any error messages from
```
sudo shutdown -h now
```
?

---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2011-02-22
No Error messages. Everytime I've tried it using the CLI it has shutdown OK, some dialog on the splash screen which looked OK.

I contacted SuperMicro for support in case it is a hardware problem, how ever they think it is a known problem with 10.10 and directed me to a couple of other links which I had not tried before.

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/15000/cant-turn-off-or-restart](http://askubuntu.com/questions/15000/cant-turn-off-or-restart)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1603642](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1603642)

and it appears it could to be something to do with USB, Wireless or network attached devices. Other than my mouse I have no USB devices permanently connected, and no wireless on this machine.... but I do have a QNAP NAS!

This occasionaly takes a long time/fails to mount, usually when this is the first machine to connect to the NAS when it is dormant. When this happens I use

sudo mount -a

I have still had the fail to shutdown event without using the mount command.

I mount the NAS in /etc/fstab with the line

192.168.11.50:/Servers /media/nas nfs rw,hard,intr  0  0

this configuration was trial, error and a number of posts on ubuntuforums as the QNAP NAS manual was not very helpful in the setting up of the NFS connection. The other material suggested that hard mounting may be the problem, but I don't know the implications of changing this, or it could be using mount -a that is the problem.

---

### Post by uaebuntu on 2011-03-03
Seems to have corrected with the install of kernal 2.6.35-27!

---

