---
title: "10.04 boots to white screen most times"
date: 2010-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Krayona on 2010-04-25
[SIZE=5][SIZE=4]About 1/2 - 3/4 of the times I boot my PC  to 10.04 RC, It quickly goes into a white screen at the beginning and then just  hangs there. I updated from 9.1 and it did this, then I fresh installed  and had same issue, including when I tried to boot of the 10.04RC  boot CD (before 10.04 was even installed).
There is nothing listed under sys/admin/hardware.
In all cases, I have to hold power button, and keep rebooting...eventually, it  will boot normally. I had no problems in 9.04 (nor on XP which I had on  the system originally). I do not have a dual boot system, only ubuntu.  I have ATI x1900 video AMD 64 X2 dual core 4200 Asus MSI motherboard 2gig ram 250 gig WD HD
Thank you. [/SIZE]
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by Krayona on 2010-04-25
Bump....anyone?

---

### Post by owenl on 2010-05-01
I have the same problem.

Can't see anything in the logs to explain it.

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2010-05-01
try installing again and setting it to automatic login this worked for me with 9.10 I believe its a problem with the ATI and X org support its worth a try it installs really quick!

---

### Post by Drkknight83 on 2010-05-13
I have been having the same problem as well on my laptop, which runs an ATI video card.  I don't have this problem on my desktop, which has an Nvidia card.  Anyway, I have noticed that when this happens, if I leave my computer alone for around 20 minutes, the screen will turn black, and if I move the mouse after that it corrects itself.  It's very frustrating.  Is anybody having this problem with Nvidia cards, or is it just ATI?

---

### Post by philnice on 2010-07-10
It seems that it happens only with ati cards, like mine. It looked like it became stable for a few days, but it just gave me the white screen while on-line. 
I'm going to upgrade my hole system, and ofcourse kiss ati good-bye. ;)
Till then, it would be great to have a work around without the need of a fresh kernel install.

---

### Post by octoberdan on 2010-09-16
> **Krayona said:**
> [SIZE=5][SIZE=4]About 1/2 - 3/4 of the times I boot my PC  to 10.04 RC, It quickly goes into a white screen at the beginning and then just  hangs there. I updated from 9.1 and it did this, then I fresh installed  and had same issue, including when I tried to boot of the 10.04RC  boot CD (before 10.04 was even installed).

Same thing here and it's driving me absolutely up the wall. I have gotten other distributions working (Damn Small Linux and Puppy Linux), but not Ubuntu 10.04 OR the 10.10 Beta. 

Are there any workarounds?

---

### Post by jshepherd on 2010-09-16
Are you sure it's not your video card? This happened on my Dell XPS m1330 and it turned out to be a fried Graphics processor.:(

---

### Post by octoberdan on 2010-09-16
> **jshepherd said:**
> Are you sure it's not your video card? This happened on my Dell XPS m1330 and it turned out to be a fried Graphics processor.:(

This was working until I upgraded (I believe I was on some 9.x). I have now tried three other distributions of Linux and they all work fine. The latest is actually a customized Ubuntu 8.10! My guess is that 10.04 introduced a bug.

```

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV250 [Mobility FireGL 9000] (rev 02)

```

Krayona, owenl and Drkknight83 run the following:

```
lspci | grep ATI
```

And post the output.

---

