---
title: "5.1 Soround system - Amplify the Woofer sound"
date: 2011-04-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by miskosu on 2011-04-03
Hello

I`m new to Ubuntu/Linux system, and I want to move to use Linux because Windows is very annoying and bad...

Had compatibility issues till now, thats why i used Linux in virtual machines only, but the time has come to install Ubuntu as the main OS and looking forward to become a permanent user of Linux. :)

But I managed to run into a problem ofc

My problem is that I managed to set up the 5.1 system but the woofer is pretty quiet. And I cant find the settings where I can amplify the sound of the woofer. The system is working 100% but the bass is very quiet.

So if anyone could help me I would be very thankful :)

Forward thanks

---

### Post by nickleboyblue on 2011-04-03
Ubuntu has two ways of adjusting volume:  The system tray way, which doesn't work very well for individual speakers, and alsamixer.

Alsamixer needs to be run in a terminal, so open one up, type alsamixer, and use your arrow keys to move volumes around.  The problem with alsamixer is that you will find yourself adjusting individual volumes over and over again with 5.1 surround sound systems because every time you use the tray volume control, it resets alsamixer's settings.  This can get very annoying.

Anyway, alsamixer is actually quite sophisticated, allowing you to adjust the volume on various physical components.  When you're done, hit the esc button and you'll be on your way.  I suggest adjusting volume while your computer is making some sort of noise, like while listening to music, so that you can get all the levels set to where you want them.

--Also, make sure your sub woofer has it's settings adjusted correctly.  It took me forever to find out that mine had a little knob on the back...

There is probably a permanent solution to this problem somewhere, but if there isn't, this is how it's done.

---

### Post by miskosu on 2011-04-03
Thanks for the quick reply.

I have tried the alsamixer, but without luck.
It seems as it uses my woofer same as the center speaker. My LFE is on max and still no "woofer sound", it is giving out sounds but same as the center satellite, so its very quiet.

Tried it on a Windows, works fine.

Any other suggestions?

Thanks

---

