---
title: "10.04 Lucid unwanted Indicator applet shortcut in XRDP"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by haihovu on 2010-05-03
I have just upgraded my old work horse from 9.10 to 10.04 and on the surface everything looks ok. However there are a few annoying issues that I have not been able to resolved. One of these is an annoying auto shortcut that links the 'm' key to the Indicator applet while running my desktop inside an XRDP session (Windows Vista client). Everytime the m key is pressed, the focus is autotragically hijacked by the Indicator applet. Attempting to type any text from any application such as the terminal or text editor is excruciating since everytime the m key is pressed the focus jumped to the Indicator applet, the only way to disable this 'feature' is by removing the Indicator applet.

This problem is not seen in the native console, only in XRDP sessions.

There is another thread that deals with similar issue ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466331](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466331)) but only for users with Apple keyboards and does not apply to my situation.

I use XRDP alot so this affects me severely. How do I go about diagnosing this problem, xev doesn't even see any event when the m key is pressed, the focus just jumped to the Indicator applet?

---

### Post by henriquemaia on 2010-05-03
Same problem here, but I'm just using a normal Xsession. [This is a confirmed bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-applet/+bug/568401").

---

### Post by haihovu on 2010-05-23
Fixed in the latest patch from Canonical

---

