---
title: "USB 3,0 ... kind of sucks"
date: 2011-11-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jgauthier on 2011-11-15
All,


 Well, I am posting a little disappointed.  I am hoping to get positive feedback, or perhaps some "me toos" out of this.

Scenario:  Running mythbuntu.  Fully updates, but no to Oneric yet.  I purchased a USB 3.0 card and a USB 3.0 Hub, and a USB 3.0 Hard drive.  My intent is to use this as additional recording space.

Kernel is something like 2.6.38.  It has USB 3.0 support.  I boot, and the hub and card are detected.  I attempt to move devices to the hub, or the card and I am met with resistance.  Long story short:

When my 2 USB drives (one 3.0 and one 2.0) are plugged in udev chokes.  It literally takes 15 minutes for the machine to half-boot.  Then the drives are unavailable or when I try to access them my console just stops responding.

So, I pull them out.  I plug in an HDPVR.  As soon as it is accessed the machine reboots.  No 'oops'. Just reboot.
 
So, I rolled a 3.0 kernel.  This is a pain, because of the stupid nvidia crap.  

Anyway, I am now excited because I think this will work better.  (I read some other information that led to me to believe it)

Anyway, I have the same results.  The drives are unusable and the HDPVR reboots.

However, my Roland USB audio device does work. 

Here's the card:
[http://www.gwctech.com/product3.asp?listid=3&id=4&subid=66&pid=816&typeid=]("http://www.gwctech.com/product3.asp?listid=3&id=4&subid=66&pid=816&typeid=")

Any experience or tips?  Thanks!

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2011-11-15
Keep in mind that USB 3.0 is still fairly new, so support for it is not perfect.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-11-16
My USB 3.0 hub, like nearly all of them, uses the Renesas firmware and drivers ... and until recently, it was very unreliable.  Not only would it only yield USB 2.0 transfer rates, it would also disconnect during a file transfer -- and the device would be GONE!

Then, after an extensive search, I found new firmware and drivers for it -- but they are only for Windows.  After the firmware and driver update, the USB 3.0 hub is reliable now.

If you can plug the hub into a Windows PC, you should then be able to update the firmware.  That may be enough to get it working properly.

As to the drivers, I did not see any for Linux.

---

### Post by Uchiha_Kori on 2011-11-16
never seen much difference between 2.0 and 3.0, and out of experience, 2.0 is slower but more stable.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-11-16
> **Uchiha_Kori said:**
> never seen much difference between 2.0 and 3.0 ...

Well, I have ... because I have a setup that has all the elements needed: USB 3.0 hub, current firmware, current drivers, USB 3.0 drive enclosure, SATA 6GB/s hard drive.

Like anything else, unless EVERYTHING in the chain is optimized for USB 3.0, you won't see any improvement over USB 2.0.

---

