---
title: "Compiz not working with nvidia card"
date: 2008-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by abhishek2gupta on 2008-05-09
Hi,

I have checked some posts and found that no one is having same problem as mine so I am posting here :)

my system :
Core 2 Duo 2.2 . 2 Gb RAM 
nvidia 7300 GS GPU
kubuntu 8.04


I installed kubuntu yesterday ( my first try at linux ). And tried to run compiz. Here are the steps i did :

Installed compiz from adept
Installed Linux drivers from nvidia
$ sudo nvidia-xconfig

it did something and backed up my conf file

rebooted and tried sudo nvidia-settings, It throws an error window " you don't seems to be using nvidia X driver. please run nvidia-xconfig from root"....but I already did that..

Anyway I searched and installed nvidia glx new and other nvidia drivers from adept.. did the same commands and... same result !!

when i tried compiz from command line, my screen goes complete white. I had to reboot

Please help !! Am I doing something wrong ??

Abhishek

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-09
Okay. Please post the contents of your [FONT="Courier New"]/etc/X11/xorg.conf[/FONT] file, as well as the terminal output of the following command.
```
$ lshw -C video
```

Secondly, you rarely ever want to forcefully reboot/shutdown your machine. First thing to try is to restart X - the graphical environment (server) - by pressing [FONT="Courier New"]Ctrl+Alt+Backspace[/FONT].

If that doesn't work, you want to try *holding* [FONT="Courier New"]LeftAlt+SysRq[/FONT], and then press [FONT="Courier New"]R-S-E-I-U-B[/FONT], in that order. **R**aising **S**kinny **E**lephants **I**s **U**tterly **B**oring. This will make it a clean reboot.

---

### Post by abhishek2gupta on 2008-05-10
Here there are :

lshw -C video
WARNING: you should run this program as super-user.
  *-display
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: G71 [GeForce 7300 GS]
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: vga_controller bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=nvidia latency=0 module=nvidia

Contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by tayhe on 2008-05-10
To abhishek2gupta:
Your xorg.conf haven't enable the support for  OpenGL  rendering and composite.
insert     ```
Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
``` under the line ```
Option "NoLogo" "True"
```
And attach ```
Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection
``` to the end of this conf file.

finaly,press```
ctrl+alt+backspace
```to restart your X, and for fun.

---

### Post by abhishek2gupta on 2008-05-10
did that ,,, still same problem.. here are new contents :
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-05-10
What is the output of 
```
compiz --replace
```

---

### Post by abhishek2gupta on 2008-05-10
after this command :

compiz --replace

whole screen turns white. I had to kill X server
when i relogin in normal mode, whole screen turned white again. I can login in failsafe mode only now

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-10
Huh. Just running [FONT="Courier New"]compiz --replace[/FONT] shouldn't alter your X configuration files, so you should be able to get into X even after it makes your screen go white. Unless, of course, this is a Gnome thing and it sets your default window manager to be compiz upon first running it, somehow. You'd need to alter gconf settings to get it reset, if so. (from failsafe)

Regardless, if you do manage to get to a point where you log into a normal non-failsafe session, enter this in a **terminal** and post the output here.
```
$ compiz --replace & sleep 5; metacity --replace &
```
This'll run compiz, wait 5 seconds and then exit it.

Omit the dollar-sign, that's syntax convention to show it's a terminal command.

---

### Post by abhishek2gupta on 2008-05-12
how do I do that ? I mean can u tell me how to alter gconf settings from failsafe and change the default window manager..

I want to change the default window manager to normal.. 

Thanks

---

### Post by linus_ernstsson@hotmail.c on 2008-05-12
Hi.
When I installed Ubuntu 8.04, from 7.10, my desktop effects stopped working. When I try to enable them, the error message "Desktop effects could not be enabled" appears. This is extremely frustarting, and I havn't been able to find a single person with the same problem.

On Ubuntu 7.10 all desktop effects worked just fine.
Please Help!

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-12
> **abhishek2gupta said:**
> how do I do that ? I mean can u tell me how to alter gconf settings from failsafe and change the default window manager..

I want to change the default window manager to normal.. 

Thanks
I'm using KDE so I don't know the details. Try running [FONT="Courier New"]gconf-editor[/FONT] via a run box (Alt+F2) or a terminal and see if you can find anything mentioning compiz or window managers. If there's a line saying [FONT="Courier New"]compiz --replace[/FONT], change that to [FONT="Courier New"]metacity --replace[/FONT].

> **linus_ernstsson@hotmail.c said:**
> Hi.
When I installed Ubuntu 8.04, from 7.10, my desktop effects stopped working. When I try to enable them, the error message "Desktop effects could not be enabled" appears. This is extremely frustarting, and I havn't been able to find a single person with the same problem.

On Ubuntu 7.10 all desktop effects worked just fine.
Please Help!
This is too vague an error description. As FuturePilot mentioned, we'd need to see the terminal output when you evoke compiz.
```
$ compiz --replace &
```

---

