---
title: "..pdf markup similar to PDF XChange Viewer?"
date: 2009-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bjdonhauser on 2009-07-17
Q: Can anyone suggest a good solution for marking up .pdf's in Linux? 


Possible solutions:

1) PDF XChange Viewer via WINE -- appears from <http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=9138&iTestingId=15527> that' it's mostly working. Is anyone having any issues with this?
2) native Linux .pdf markup tool -- anyone know which of these <http://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/PDF> is closest to PDF XChange viewer in terms of markup capabilities via GUI?

I've been running Ubuntu on a Windows Vista 32 via Sun's VirtualBox for a while now. I'm considering making a complete migration over to Linux. But there a few sticking points. This is one of them. I'm a PhD student reading LOTS of .pdf journal articles and REALLY need a good solution for marking them up. PDF XChange Viewer really is great software for my purposes...but it doesn't look like there's anything close to it in Linux :( Am I wrong here?

---

### Post by bjdonhauser on 2009-07-23
hmm, maybe someone can at least comment on whether my question above was poorly stated or better asked in a different forum?

---

### Post by telescopic on 2009-07-30
I am also searching a good pdf reader with annotating feature. I found pdf xchange viewer via wine a week ago. It does good job in highlighting, adding comment.... But the bookmark feature doesn't come with the free version. I want the bookmark feature. Let me know if someone know a pdf editor which can do markup plus bookmarking. How is Xjournal?

Pdf xchange is about the same as FoxitReader. 

-Telescopic

---

### Post by bjdonhauser on 2009-08-01
> **telescopic said:**
> I am also searching a good pdf reader with annotating feature. I found pdf xchange viewer via wine a week ago. It does good job in highlighting, adding comment.... But the bookmark feature doesn't come with the free version. I want the bookmark feature. Let me know if someone know a pdf editor which can do markup plus bookmarking. How is Xjournal?

Pdf xchange is about the same as FoxitReader. 

-Telescopic

i used the free version for a while. then i shelled out the $45 to get PDF Tools bundled with PDF XChange Viewer pro. (Tools lets you manipulate pdfs really easily). i have to say it was totally worth the price. PDF XChange viewer is such a slick product. 

so, it came up as a comment somewhere else, but I bet you'll find good, free .ps markup programs for free. so if you don't mind converting .pdf -> .ps that's an option.

---

### Post by spcwingo on 2009-08-01
If highlighting/annotating is what you want, you might want to look into pdfedit and flpsed.  The both are in the repos and can be installed with this command:

```
sudo apt-get install pdfedit flpsed
```

---

### Post by Myth123 on 2010-04-07
I have tried PDF xchange viewer on wine and its working !
I am quite happy with it, No issues found yet.

---

### Post by mp035 on 2010-07-07
I know this thread is dead, but for anyone else looking for a decent pdf markup tool, try xournal, it's listed as a note taker, and is great on tablets, but one of it's less known features is the ability to mark up PDF's.

It is simple to use, and has a very nice interface.

```

sudo aptitude install xournal

```

HTH someone.

---

### Post by mike555 on 2010-07-08
+1  for "xournal" , excellent program ...

---

