---
title: "10.10 lagging when typing/moving the mouse"
date: 2011-03-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hugh971 on 2011-03-15
Hi,

I'm having issues with 10.10 in that when typing the text appears in chunks, not as I type it and when I move the mouse it takes a split second before the cursor moves.

I read yesterday that reinstalling the graphics driver can fix this so I did that and it fixed it but today it's come back. Any suggestions for a more permanent fix.

My graphics card is an ATI Radeon HD4870.


Thanks

Hugh

---

### Post by meanmrmustard on 2011-05-06
I'm having the same problem with 10.10.
This is a new install with all updates.
The difference is that it's not just a second or two but sometimes a couple minutes or more.
I'll start to type something - address bar, in a terminal, gedit, you name it and suddenly I can get no response from the keyboard and occasionally but not always the mouse. It will even refuse to switch desktops - this is also, but not always, occasional.

I have an Ibex install on another disk in the same machine and it never happens there, also the symptoms occur on a Hardy install on a third disk in this machine.

The only thing in the logs I see are shows numerous "Write error on swap device" messages in the kernlog and syslogs.
The last entries all happened at the same hour/minute - 25 repeating messages:
```
Paduak kernel: [ 9570.528087] Write-error on swap-device (8:16:2296)
```

I have no idea what the bracketed numbers mean but they are all different except the beginning digits (9570.xx and 8:16:xx)

Later:
As I looked again at the kern/log I see what may be a related issue...
```
May  6 10:43:03 Paduak kernel: [15713.275261] ata5: exception Emask 0x10 SAct 0x0 SErr 0x150000 action 0xe frozen
May  6 10:43:03 Paduak kernel: [15713.275274] ata5: SError: { PHYRdyChg CommWake Dispar }
May  6 10:43:03 Paduak kernel: [15713.275290] ata5: limiting SATA link speed to 1.5 Gbps
May  6 10:43:03 Paduak kernel: [15713.275299] ata5: hard resetting link
May  6 10:43:10 Paduak kernel: [15719.392358] ata5: link is slow to respond, please be patient (ready=0)
May  6 10:43:13 Paduak kernel: [15723.320091] ata5: SRST failed (errno=-16)
May  6 10:43:13 Paduak kernel: [15723.320102] ata5: hard resetting link

```

Many of these blocks over the morning.

Smartctrl shows all drives as healthy.

---

