---
title: "15.10 (Wily Werewolf) Known bugs and work-a-rounds"
date: 2015-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2015-10-24
The last couple of  development cycles have been fairly quiet, with no major problems, some users are still having problems with systemd, but you call still choose to boot using upstart, by selecting Recovery Mode from the grub menu then selecting the boot using upstart option.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2015-10-24
I've not found a sure fire workaround for any of these:

(1) Kernel not upgraded during Vivid -> Wily upgrade: 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-release-upgrader/+bug/1508157](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/ubuntu-release-upgrader/+bug/1508157)

(2) Wily user UI shows auto-login off after selecting on during install: 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/1487819](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gdm/+bug/1487819)

(3) Booting live Wily image results in black screen with or without random text:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/1489147](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/casper/+bug/1489147)

(4) Garbled graphics in Wily with Intel GMA4500 chip: 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/1507255](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-intel/+bug/1507255)

I'd thought that just toggling the auto-login UI back and forth a few times fixed #2 but alas it just keeps reverting to its buggy behavior.

Regarding #3 I tried using the nomodeset boot parameter which worked to a degree but the finished installation was borked with both the nouveau and nVidia drivers on one set of hardware. It actually affected all three of these sets of hardware to some degree:

> AMD Sempron Processor LE-1250 @ 2.2 GHz
nVidia C61 [GeForce 7025 / nForce 630a] (rev a2)
nVidia MCP61 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
nVidia MCP61 Ethernet (rev a2)
2GB DDR2 RAM

Intel Atom CPU  230 @ 1.60GHz
Intel 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)
Intel N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
Realtek RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 02)
2GB DDR2 RAM

Intel Motherboard: DB43LD
Intel Pentium Dual-Core CPU E5300 @ 2.60GHz
Intel Corporation 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
Intel Corporation 82801JD/DO (ICH10 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 02)
00:19.0 Ethernet controller: Intel Corporation 82567LM-3 Gigabit Network Connection (rev 02)
3GB DDR2 RAM

Are you sure upstart is still an option on fresh installs? I don't see it as an option in the advanced boot menu.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2015-10-25
> **kansasnoob said:**
> Are you sure upstart is still an option on fresh installs? I don't see it as an option in the advanced boot menu.

It should be under the advanced options. It was on my final release install of Xubuntu 15.10. Not sure why the flavor would make a difference.

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2015-10-25
> **kansasnoob said:**
> 
<snip>
Are you sure upstart is still an option on fresh installs? I don't see it as an option in the advanced boot menu.

> **Cavsfan said:**
> It should be under the advanced options. It was on my final release install of Xubuntu 15.10. Not sure why the flavor would make a difference.
 You need to install "upstart-sysv" to see it in Advanced Menu!
Regards

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2015-10-26
I didn't install anything extra. Upstart must come pre-installed on Xubuntu.

Regards

---

### Post by timgood on 2015-11-02
In Kubuntu 15.10, right click functionality for creating and extracting archives has been lost. You can regain it by opening a terminal and typing:

```
sudo ln -s /usr/share/kde4/servicetypes/konqpopupmenuplugin.desktop /usr/share/kservicetypes5/
```

If you are running a 64bit system, the Skype icon will not show in the system tray without the installation of sni-qt:i386

```
sudo apt-get install sni-qt:i386
```

---

### Post by Edward 000 on 2015-11-03
When changing mouse cursor theme on the desktop stays the same and on Chrome it will look the way I changed it but when i return back to the desktop it will change to the original [COLOR=#333333][FONT=Arial]DMZ-White[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2015-11-04
> **runrickus said:**
> You need to install "upstart-sysv" to see it in Advanced Menu!
Regards

Thanks. That works in Ubuntu GNOME, although it didn't solve any of the buggy behavior I've encountered with Wily.

---

### Post by coldraven on 2015-12-01
Today's update had bad results for me. (presumably it is 4.2.0-19-generic)
The fan on this laptop ran continuously at medium speed.
Browsing with Firefox was painfully slow, typing in the address bar had about a three second delay.
Reboot and/or shutdown failed to work, the machine was left powered on with a black screen.

I have now booted back with 4.2.0-18-generic and all is normal. How do I make this automatic on start-up?

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2015-12-01
> **coldraven said:**
> Today's update had bad results for me. (presumably it is 4.2.0-19-generic)
The fan on this laptop ran continuously at medium speed.
Browsing with Firefox was painfully slow, typing in the address bar had about a three second delay.
Reboot and/or shutdown failed to work, the machine was left powered on with a black screen.

I have now booted back with 4.2.0-18-generic and all is normal. How do I make this automatic on start-up?
Hey coldraven see if this helps, Pretty Straght forward.
[http://www.humans-enabled.com/2014/08/how-to-set-default-grub-kernel-boot.html](http://www.humans-enabled.com/2014/08/how-to-set-default-grub-kernel-boot.html)
And one more for reference.
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/216398/set-older-kernel-as-default-grub-entry](http://askubuntu.com/questions/216398/set-older-kernel-as-default-grub-entry)
Or uninstall kernel [COLOR=#000000]*4.2.0-19-generic Be sure this is the correct one.*[/COLOR]
best of luck && Kind Regards

---

### Post by coldraven on 2015-12-03
> **runrickus said:**
> Hey coldraven see if this helps, Pretty Straght forward.
[http://www.humans-enabled.com/2014/08/how-to-set-default-grub-kernel-boot.html](http://www.humans-enabled.com/2014/08/how-to-set-default-grub-kernel-boot.html)
And one more for reference.
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/216398/set-older-kernel-as-default-grub-entry](http://askubuntu.com/questions/216398/set-older-kernel-as-default-grub-entry)
Or uninstall kernel [COLOR=#000000]*4.2.0-19-generic Be sure this is the correct one.*[/COLOR]
best of luck && Kind Regards

I followed the advice in the first link, I have not re-booted yet but it should be good. Thanks
Edit: It works! After re-boot I'm still on 4.2.0-18-generic

---

### Post by AmaDaden on 2015-12-09
Had the same issue as coldraven in an install I've been using for about 2 years and always kept up to date. I run into to the slowdown right after a kernel update. To try and fix it I did a fresh 15.10 install and everything was fine until I again updated to 4.2.0-19-generic. Booting in to the other kernel I have installed, 4.2.0-16-generic, fixed the slow issue for me. Let me know if I can provide any additional info that would be of any help

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2016-01-13
Synaptic history log is empty. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/synaptic/+bug/1487890](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/synaptic/+bug/1487890) (it says "Fix released" but not sure if or when the fix will be backported to Wily)
Workaround: Once again Mc4man saved the day, install Doug McMahon's deb from [https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/ubuntu/quick-tests1/+packages](https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/ubuntu/quick-tests1/+packages)

---

### Post by coldraven on 2016-02-12
Choosing Log Out sometimes goes directly to Suspend.

This is a single user laptop and as I've posted before I have a keyboard problem. The keyboard layout randomly switches from UK to US, I can fix this by clicking on the layout switcher. Even though En1 (UK) is already ticked, clicking on it flips it back from En2 (US).

Sometimes my keyboard just stops working. I'm not sure if this is a hardware fault, I had the same problem on an identical laptop running 14.04. (now sadly deceased)
To fix this I must log out and log back in. Sometimes I get the log-in screen and sometimes it just suspends. After resuming I arrive at the log-in screen and am able to enter my password. 

Auto-login is enabled for boot-up.
The cog drop-down menu sometimes changes. At the moment Suspend is an option but I'm sure that I have seen that go away and become an sub-option of the power-off big buttons.
(sorry but I can't think of the correct terminology ATM)

This is not a support request, I will be doing a fresh install of 16.04 when it is available. Ask if you would like any more info.

---

### Post by Malachi_Selesnick on 2016-02-14
I can't shutdown or logout

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-02-14
Malachi_Selesnick --

If you have a problem for which you need support, please post in the General Help forum with enough detail about your machine and the exact problem that others may help you.

This thread is dedicated to known bugs and work-arounds, not support questions.

---

### Post by sammiev on 2016-03-18
> **Dixie_Lou said:**
> Holy cow, time flies, Is 15.10 like out now? for real? in an LTS version and all? Is it any good?,,,, I thought I was in head of the game with 14.04...

Hi,

15.10 is not a LTS version. 

16.04LTS will be released April 21/16 and good for 5 years.

Should wait a few months after it's released before updating. :)

---

