---
title: "Dell D600 w/ 10.04, wireless is now dropping"
date: 2011-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tech7 on 2011-09-25
I been running Ubuntu 10.04 LTS on a Dell Latitude D600 which uses the Broadcom BCM4306 802.11/g Wireless LAN controller.
I've not had any problems that pertain to wireless LAN and have been running Ubuntu on this laptop since I've bought it a few months ago.
Yesterday, I started having issues where my computer would drop it's connection to the wireless router.  I have two networks in my home, both of which broadcast a wireless signal.  My computer would drop both.  If I restarted my computer, I could achieve a crappy connection for no more than 10 minutes before my connection to the router would once again drop, being unable to reconnect until I restarted again.
Now, I can maintain a persistent connection (for the most part), but the speed is absolutely terrible.  Either that, or I'm dropping packets like a one armed paper hanger with hives.
I have a twin Dell D600 which runs windows xp without any (internet) issues at all.  Also, my family runs windows on their computers and they are also having no issues.
I'm at a loss.  
I have no idea where to start with this issue as almost all of the forum threads, tutorials, etc are about only similar problems on different cards or with special router configurations.  Both of the routers in my home have the default config with no passwords or protection currently enabled.
And just as my luck will have it, I just started a new web project a few days ago, for which is the reason I use ubuntu.  I love using ubuntu and lamp for coding and would rather rip my own lips off with a salad tong than have to use my windows computer for this project.
Please help!!!!

---

### Post by BeRoot ReBoot on 2011-09-25
Are you using the proprietary drivers from Broadcom? I've not had such bad experience with their wifi hardware, but installing the proprietary drivers has improved the performance in terms of connection  and reset time.

---

### Post by tech7 on 2011-09-25
I'm using the Broadcom B43legacy wireless driver.  I always try to get the proprietary drivers that are available through the Hardware Drivers sources, but for this particular card, this was all that I could find that was available.

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2011-09-25
Why do you have two wireless networks?

---

### Post by tech7 on 2011-09-25
I have one for the family, they watch their movies, play their games, run their gaming non-sense, etc.  I have another in my studio where all my machines are networked together.

---

### Post by tech7 on 2011-09-26
come on guys; any suggestions?

This is killin' me.  I can't keep restarting my computer every 30 minutes.  Should I just reinstall the OS and start over?  I had a good few months from the get-go before this terrible thing started happening..

---

### Post by tech7 on 2011-09-26
You know, I'm not so sure that this is a card issue.  When I plug in my netgear wifi adapter it has issues, as well.  The connection with the adapter will slow way down, but not entirely disconnect from the router like the broadcom card does.
At this point, I've also reinstalled the firmware and tried to install the bcmkernel drivers.  No good.
Wireless has issues X 2 cards.

---

