---
title: "8.10 Adobe AcroReader slow search"
date: 2008-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by IQRules on 2008-11-23
The pdf file is about 8M bytes.
Is it a bug in acroread?

root@ubuntu:~# acroread -v
8.1.3
root@ubuntu:~# uname -a
Linux ubuntu 2.6.27-7-generic #1 SMP Tue Nov 4 19:33:20 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux
root@ubuntu:~#

I think the pdf file was written as Microsoft PPT file and converted to PDF file.
Unacceptable slowness here.

Just confirmed from Mac OSX Tiger, the speed is very good at Mac OSX, 1.25Ghz.
The 8.10 is on Intel 1.8G laptop, almost 10-20 times slow.

---

### Post by 53rv3r on 2008-12-14
I'm also experiencing slow searches when using acroread for random pdf files.

$ acroread -v
8.1.3
$ uname -a
Linux vaio 2.6.27-9-generic #1 SMP Thu Nov 20 21:57:00 UTC 2008 i686 GNU/Linux

Neither my cpu load nor my disk usage raise when I'm searching through pdf files.
I guess it's not a Ubuntu related issue but a problem/bug only Adobe can fix... :(

---

### Post by IQRules on 2008-12-15
I wonder could issue on 1 of X render libs.

---

### Post by tekhnofiend on 2009-01-03
Hi, this is not an issue only on Ubuntu. I recently switched from Gentoo to Ubuntu, and I've experienced this slow search problem on both. On Gentoo I only noticed the incredibly slow search speed (about 0.75 seconds to search each page of a pdf) after upgrading to version 8.x from 7.x. Also, the search speed is slow only when using the firefox plugin (I haven't tested other browsers); when searching from acroread called from the terminal, search is relatively fast. I suspect the problem lies with the plugin.

Have you found a solution to this? I'm not sure how to go forward aside from downgrading to 7.x.

---

