---
title: "8.04 one more thing broke gksu - some things had to tweek"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-04-30
After upgrading my Gutsy to 8.04 I had these problems and fixes:

Booting hung, I was able to get into recovery mode, and I installed startupmanager with sudo apt-get install startupmanager - this allowed me to turn on the display where I could see what was hanging when booting - it would hang out at: "waiting for root file system"
 to fix --> using startupmanager I changed the default kernel to 2.6.22-14-generic rather than 24 & boot came back to normal. 

This also fixed my sound not working, after changing the kernel, sound just worked. 

This did not Fix my StreamTuner - it is calling for Xmms which is no longer installed - but I did find a fix for this to stop using xmms & set up StreamTuner to run audacious instead which worked great (sorry xmms - I even tried getting xmms2 to work but dont want to learn how to set it up just to streaming music).

The one final thing I cannot seem to fix is running any gksu application (of which there are many!). For any applications that runs using gksu - I see the  Starting Administrati... icon on the task bar and then it just goes away without launching the app. And this is pretty annoying since, I cant run many things to set up the computer (like adding Java Plugins to Firefox) - I have been switching to user root, run the update then switch back to my normal user. Any input on this gksu problem would be really appreciated.

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-01
Humm .... nobody else is experiencing the gksu thing?

---

### Post by Ozzee on 2008-05-06
Yes, I am, and this person is as well: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=783763](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=783763)

I don't have a solution though. :/

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-06
I think I have determined that I need to re-install (not something I really want to do - but should be able to fairly simply) however when I tried to do a fresh install, the installer would not work on my Dell Inspiron 530 for some reason. I think I found that I will need to use the Alternative installer to get it going.

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-06
Well that was a mistake - after being lulled into a comofortable position by 8.04 and restoreing my stuff, it broke again. So I dont know if I would suggest rebuildin geither. I did a complete rebuild (after moving - yes moving) my data back on to the computer and after the first upgrade everything broke. Now I am getting ata2.00 status : { DRDY } over an over again - and since this is not an upgrade like before, I cannot drop down to an older kernel. So I am shanked. Looks like I will be rebuilding again back to Gutsy.

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-06
THis is very strange and like any Ubuntu experience I have had in the past. THe Live CD works fine - and I can even install with the alternate, then it goes into this boot loop where verything craps out.

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-06
Sorry NOT like any previous install.

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-06
OK I tried 8.04 alternative one more time. It installs without any hitches, even lets me reboot. Once I am comfortable with it and was ready to just continue with this build (without updateing expecting that was the problem) I rebooted one more time, and it failed. So I am think this is an intermittent thing. but am now afraid to reboot the computer or go forward. This is a bad place to be. :(

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-06
I would really like to get this resolved without having to drop to Gutsy. Here is the detail/jist of it:

HardWare:
I am using a Dell Inspiron 530, with what it calls a Dell HardDrive 160G S2 7.2K 8M LeadFree SGT-NH hard drive and a 128MB Geforce 83000 GS Video Card nVidia card. 

Problem:
Intermittently on reboot - takes very long time to boot, if it boots at all. The times that it does NOT, I get a bunch of ata#.## Exception Emaks 0x0 and it never boots. Power off and hold my Coke can just right with my tongue out and it boots. Course I dont know this to be ture every time cause now I am afraid to reboot again for fear that I will lose it again. 

Any help/support with this matter is greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-06
Humm well since I am talking to myself =) I think I should tell myself that I think we will be OK, just as long as I never have to reboot ever again. So if could only find a way to get my PC on UPS without disconnecting it from power I should be alright:lolflag:

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-22
And the saga continues - I was just about to write this off as must have fixed itself. Ran an update today that required a reboot. Rebooted without even thinking about it - and the ugliness of the no booting was back. So I am thinking this is still an intermittent problem with my system anyway. Any input or advise is greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-05-29
I may be thinking that the last kernel update has resolved things. I will keep my fingers crossed, but I have not seen it since.

---

### Post by dwanders on 2008-08-22
Its back - must be a hard drive or something.

---

