---
title: "802.11G Support?"
date: 2006-08-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CoriolisSTORM on 2006-08-16
Hello everyone, I started out using Ubuntu as my Linux distro some time ago (4.10 I believe) and had a winmodem, so it was really limited, and then I went to Open SuSE hoping to get it to work.  Well, it didn't and has been incompatible with some of my other hardware that Ubuntuu worked wonderfully with.  Since I've moved, I've got broadband and a wireless network.  This computer has a wireless Linksys USB 802.llG network adapter.  Does Ubuntu support this card?  I'd like to come back to it, (since it worked with most of my hardware), and I enjoyed my first go around with it.  (Unlike OpenSuSE which was probably due to a hardware problem of my own.)  So, does Ubuntu support a Linksys 802.11G USB wireless card?  (If so how do I get it to work?  (After downloading Ubuntu that is...)

---

### Post by DoctorMO on 2006-08-17
You should try the LiveCD install disk. download it, burn it, and try it. this ill give you a good chance to get familiar with the level of support.

Most wifi cards do now work with Linux (support for hardware is in the kernel, rather than the distro), but the only way to know for sure is to find the model number of the device, look it up online and best of all try ubuntu before you install it.

---

### Post by bensexson on 2006-08-17
Remember to check for the version of the Linksys adapter.  Linksys uses diferent chipsets depending on the rev number.

---

