---
title: "10.10 Systems freeze for 3-4 sec then works again"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mogeku on 2010-10-13
here on a HP Laptop. After a clean install of 10.10 the Systems freeze for 3-4 sec after every mouse click . . . and action ( move window etc ) any hint ?

---

### Post by mogeku on 2010-10-13
it's a HP Compaq 6820s

---

### Post by coypu76 on 2010-10-14
I have the same model of notebook.  
Compaq is notorious for selling widely varying hardware in the same case and calling it the same model, however, I had the same exact symptom.  Here's what I did:
1.  Verify which video card you have.  Go to terminal and enter
lspci | grep VGA
Mine shows 
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV516 [Mobility Radeon X1350]

If you have this same video card, then I have good news and bad news.

The good news is you can get the freezing to stop.
Bring up your Aptitude Package Manager.
Install the fglrx package - this is the proprietary ATI driver.  It will install without errors.
The bad news is that it will not support extended graphics features.  The freezing will stop and Ubuntu 10.10 will come up stable without the freezing, but we will either have to wait for a driver or simply learn to live without desktop effects.  The hardware is perfectly capable of doing the effects, but the driver is not quite up to snuff.
I checked the ATI (AMD) website to see if they have a mobility X1350 driver.  Their site says that OEM shops like HP and others who use this card modify it, and to get a driver from them.  At HP's site they offer only Windows drivers, so no joy there either.

When I try to run fglrxinfo I get a segmentation fault, but at least the card is working and giving decent resolution:  I'm getting 1440 X 900 which is the same resolution I get in Windows 7, and I get it on the notebook's internal screen and an external 19" monitor as well, which I'm running in an extended desktop dual monitor configuration.

I'm a little disappointed that the effects aren't working, but at least Maverick boots up reasonably quickly.

Oh, while I'm writing another tip:
In a terminal, cd to /etc/default
edit the file grub
Change the line 
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
to read
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash acpi=off"

This will speed up the boot a bit.

For now that's the best I can come up with - Maverick is up, running, and stable, without the maddening freezes, but there is still no fully functioning driver for the ATI card that I know of.  I am hoping that some wiser heads will come along and enlighten me - surely there is a workaround.  In older versions of Ubuntu I could get effects working, but now the software has evolved beyond my old notebook, and it seems likely that you're in the same boat.

Hope this helps a little at least.
Good luck, and keep the forums posted on your progress.
Coypu

---

### Post by AntonW on 2010-10-22
Hello, excuse a newbie.
I have exactly the same problem with my 6820s.
Since  I have about 4 hours of experience with Linux, I would ask you to write  a description of exactly what to do to get it to work.

---

### Post by coypu76 on 2010-10-25
Apologies for lack of clarity - I was actually trying to do exactly that in my prior post.  That being said:

1.  In your Ubuntu Desktop choose Administration,Synaptic Package Manager (enter your password when prompted).
2.  Search for package fglrx.  Click the checkbox beside it and choose "Mark for Installation." 
3.  Click Apply in the top toolbar of Synaptic Package Manager.

Synaptic will install the fglrx driver.  You will need to log off and log back on again (or simply reboot) for the new driver to take effect.

In my experience on a Cpq 6820s, the 3d acceleration does not work and desktop effects cannot be enabled, however at least this will stop the lockups.

Hope this helps - good luck on your install.
Also see my prior post for a splash screen hack that helps, but it is not mandatory; it just speeds up the boot a bit.

Good luck!

---

### Post by mogeku on 2010-11-01
now the same issus, a reinstalled of the flgfx drivers doesn't work again . . . . any other hint ? shame

---

