---
title: "2.6.24-25 kernel update for 8.04 disabled desktop effects"
date: 2009-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by charonred on 2009-10-22
I was advised by update manager that there were new updates available so after I finished doing the work I had in progress, I allowed the update to proceed.

Seemed to be mainly a kernel update 2.6.24-25 for Ubuntu 8.04.3

I have startup-manager set to use 2.6.24-23 because 2.6.24-24 would only silent boot for so long, then the usplash would be replaced with script on a black screen.

Anyhow after the update, it was suddenly running 2.6.24-24 and all my desktop effects were disabled, and couldn't be enabled ... what the ??

I've reset it to use 2.6.24-23 and things are working fine again; but why did the update change my previous settings in startup-manager

---

### Post by kidalabama on 2009-10-23
when upgrade 2.6.24-25 virtualbox-ose not running. because virtualbox-ose-modules-2.6.24.-25 not in [http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=virtualbox-ose](http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?keywords=virtualbox-ose).

---

### Post by charonred on 2009-10-23
Not sure why you posted about VirtualBox and the kernel; can't see it having anything to do with graphics drivers problem and the latest kernel - anyhow the VirtualBox I use was downloaded from Sun and I use that rather than the OSE because it has USB support, and it still works fine.

I do know that if you update the kernel, then you need to re-compile VirtualBox to the new kernel for it to work - when you attempt to start VirtualBox, it should prompt/suggest what you need to do to fix it.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-23
I guess you are using drivers that are not from the official repo's. Each time you upgrade your kernel, it will kill those binary drivers. There are ways around that ([DKMS]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dynamic_Kernel_Module_Support")), but I dont know the specifics and Im not sure its implemented in 8.04

 The easiest solution is just reinstalling your videodrivers.

---

### Post by charonred on 2009-10-23
As I said in original post, I'm back to using the kernel I was using before the update; what I really wanted to know was why it changed the setting in startup-manager

I had startup-manager set to use 2.6.24-23
but after the kernel update to 2.6.24-25
startup-manager was then set to use 2.6.24-24

I would think that if it changed the setting, shouldn't it have changed setting to use the new kernel 2.6.24-25 and not to 2.6.24-24. It's minor inconvenience having to reset and reboot, but I would just like to know why it changed the setting in the first place.

The other strange thing was that when I did use 2.6.24-24 when it first updated months ago (before I reset to use 2.6.24-23), I didn't have any problems with graphics drivers - desktop effects worked fine.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-23
Have a look at your grub.cfg. You will see a section where kernels are automatically added, if you have any before or after that, they will "stick". im not sure how startupmanager interferes with that, but its probably related. Also, an update may update grub and rewrite the grub.cfg (though it would prompt you).

---

### Post by charonred on 2009-10-23
thanks P4man I'll look into that later

unrelated question; 
how are you finding Karmic, I've played with it a little, but as I need my PC for work I spend nearly all my time in Hardy.

I intend going 64bit in a week or so's time (just ordered another 4GB of memory to add to existing 4GB) - Karmic is looking good, so I'm considering going to Karmic 64bit rather than Hardy 64bit.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-23
> **charonred said:**
> 
how are you finding Karmic.

Seems to work okay for me for the most part. Some minor annoyances only; things like sound muting at 22%, the login screen looking ugly with my non rectangular dual monitor setup. I cant say it performs any better than jaunty, but it has been completely stable and some of the novelties are quite nice (although Im not exactly thrilled by the looks).

In short: nothing you cant live without, but no show stoppers either.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2009-10-23
> **charonred said:**
> As I said in original post, I'm back to using the kernel I was using before the update; what I really wanted to know was why it changed the setting in startup-manager.This is only a wild guess based on some experiences with grub, but it sounds as if startup-manager internally set itself to use the second kernel in grub's list, and when the new kernel was added to the top of the list that pushed the rest down one place.

Grub has an option of using a saved offset as the default, and a second option to adjust that saved offset when the list changes, to avoid this sort of thing. Apparently startup-manager doesn't...

---

### Post by charonred on 2009-10-23
P4man
Thanks, I'll see how it looks on release; I quite liked Jaunty and have installed it on 6 friends PCs and they all prefer it over Windows XP (despite having to learn how to fly & fix it).

My only problem with Jaunty was the restricted ATI drivers didn't work with my dual-monitors (2 x 4:3 aspect); though I found Karmic beta worked ok, once I changed settings as root (which I can do as user in Hardy ?)


JKyleOKC
Thanks for clearing that up; I was wondering if that was the case with startup-manager - now I'm aware of that behaviour, it won't cause me concern in the future.

---

