---
title: "7.10 Gutsy Live CD Problems"
date: 2007-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RedAlpha on 2007-10-28
Hello, you could say I'm somewhat new to Linux. :/

So I burn the .iso to a CD, restart my PC and go to the Ubuntu live screen, and I select to run the live CD. It display's the loading bar and loads all the way up. When it does, it goes to a black screen and nothing happens after that, I wat quite some time, still nothing happens. It couldn't be anything wrong with my hardware because i can boot Knoppix and PCLinuxOS with ease from Live CD's. Anyone know what the solution could be? ](*,)

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2007-10-28
> **RedAlpha said:**
> Hello, you could say I'm somewhat new to Linux. :/

So I burn the .iso to a CD, restart my PC and go to the Ubuntu live screen, and I select to run the live CD. It display's the loading bar and loads all the way up. When it does, it goes to a black screen and nothing happens after that, I wat quite some time, still nothing happens. It couldn't be anything wrong with my hardware because i can boot Knoppix and PCLinuxOS with ease from Live CD's. Anyone know what the solution could be? ](*,)

Post your specs.

---

### Post by RedAlpha on 2007-10-28
My specs are...

Intel Core 2 Duo E6600
Nvidia 680i mobo
Nvidia 8800 GTS
X-fi sound card.
Corsair 2048 MB RAM

Currently running with Windows XP.

---

### Post by RedAlpha on 2007-10-29
Bump.

Anybody know what my problem is?

---

### Post by Therion on 2007-10-29
Boot from the LiveCD.
When the GRUB menu comes up hit "Escape" and select "Recovery Mode".
You'll seem some screens scroll by and wind up at a command prompt.
At the command prompt:
```
nano /boot/grub/menu.lst
```
Scroll down past all the # signs and look for the first line that starts with Kernel.  It's a long line of code that will go off the end of your display.  Use the arrow keys to get to the end where you'll see the word "splash".
Remove the word splash from that line.
Ctrl+X, confirm the overwrite and reboot.

This will get you to the desktop where you can install Ubuntu to your hard drive.  AFTER it's installed to your hard drive, you'll need to **re-edit** menu.lst because now you're booting from your hard drive and not the LiveCD. 

Follow the above steps again once you've booted from your hard drive and you should then be prompted about installing the Restricted Driver automatically.  Install the driver and you should be good to go from there.

Search the forums about how to get your boot-screen back.  Nothing worked for me, so I just live without a boot screen.

---

