---
title: "12.04 x86_64 /var/log/upstart/gssd.log and statd.log spammed"
date: 2013-03-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by itziksh on 2013-03-12
Hi,
I've installed this server a month ago and I have on idea when this started, the / partition is separated from the servers main usage so it has little effect but this behavior still needs to be solved.

/var/log/upstart/gssd.log and statd.log are spammed constantly with "y", / is 74 gigs and they fill it in under 2 days.

I don't know how to access this and googling the problem found nothing.

How would you start searching for the problem? 

Thank you, 
Itzik.

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2013-03-12
hi
would be nice to know what's the contents of the logfiles. may be the loglevel is set to PARANOID or something is going wrong with your system. i am using nfs too and have a look of the size of my logfiles.
-rw-r----- 1 root root  87 Mär  3 08:36 statd.log.6.gz
-rw-r----- 1 root root  91 Mär  2 12:26 statd.log.7.gz

-rw-r----- 1 root root  67 Mär 10 09:55 gssd.log.2.gz
-rw-r----- 1 root root  54 Mär  8 08:01 gssd.log.3.gz

and that's it.
ciao

---

### Post by itziksh on 2013-03-12
thanks for the reply [COLOR=#000000]rnerwein,
As i've said the files "[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]are spammed constantly with "y"" so the files just looks like this-
```

y
y
y
y
y
y
y

```

how can I check the log level on upstart?[/COLOR]

---

### Post by itziksh on 2013-03-13
changing the log level didn't help.
I've changed it to fatal 
```
initctl log-priority fatal
```
and still the files are spammed with "y"s.

Can you think of other directions I should try? can I re-install upstart? can I see what process is writing to the files?

---

### Post by itziksh on 2013-03-13
I am still not sure why, for some reason the command "yes" was run by root righting to thees files.If it returns Ill find out what process run them and why, It can't be another user, I am the only one with access to this server.

---

