---
title: "10.04 Freezes when closing lid on DM9"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JEBB on 2010-05-11
When I close the lid on my Dell Mini 9 (Ubuntu 10.04 UNR) the sysgtem freezes.  Is there anything I can do to prevent this?  That didn't happen with 9.04 UNR.

---

### Post by angelsneverdie on 2010-07-09
I've got a Y series Vaio and the same thing recently started happening.  When i open lid the screen pops on but neither mouse nor keyboard input seems to respond, am forced to do a hard reboot.  it seems like this just started happening recently, it has worked on 10.04 for a long time.
also, going into power managment and switching from suspend to hibernate or vis versa when lid is closed has no effect.

---

### Post by libssd on 2010-07-09
Does the freeze happen if the lid is opened within a minute, or only if it's been closed for a considerable amount of time? While I don't have this problem on an Acer D150 with 10.04, I did have something like it with 9.04. The problem was that the machine wasn't really suspending, and some process was eating up all available RAM. When swap was nearly used up, the machine was so slow that it seemed like it was frozen. In my case, a BIOS and kernel upgrade solved the problem.

What behavior do you have set for "When laptop lid is closed"? If suspend, try turning off password checking when waking up from suspend:

Configuration Editor > apps > gnome-power-manager > lock
Uncheck everything except use_screensaver_settings

Then check your screensaver prefs, and make sure that "Lock screen when screensaver is active" is unchecked. If you want to  be able to lock the screen, you can add the "Lock Screen" button to the panel.

---

### Post by angelsneverdie on 2010-07-11
it happens even if i close the lid and then open it immediatly.  but on the bright side, i told it not to lock the screen in the configuration like you said and it seems to have fixed the problem!

thanks for your help!

---

### Post by angelsneverdie on 2010-07-14
well, i don't know why but the problem is back again.  maybe it was my imagination that it was fixed?  unlikely, but who knows.  additionally, around the same time this started i've noticed that whenever i boot up the computer the wireless always starts off as disabled.  it never used to do that.  so i have to enable it and then it will connect to my network.  it started around the same time....could be related?

---

### Post by JEBB on 2010-07-15
angelsneverdie:

If you have an SD card in the SD slot that could be the source of your problem.  See this link for a solution:[http://www.mydellmini.com/forum/ubuntu-netbook-remix/14722-suspend-hibernate-mini-9-broken.html](http://www.mydellmini.com/forum/ubuntu-netbook-remix/14722-suspend-hibernate-mini-9-broken.html)

---

### Post by angelsneverdie on 2010-07-15
wow, good call.  that was it!  thanks!

---

### Post by JEBB on 2010-07-15
Glad I could help.  I've gotten lots of help here and at the MyDellMini site.

---

