---
title: "5.1 surround problem"
date: 2011-02-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joe&amp;nidhi on 2011-02-07
I am having a problem getting 5.1 surround sound in Ubuntu 10.10. I have spent the last week searching the forums but without success.

I am using a realtek sound card with an AMD motherboard. I have chosen 5.1 surround from the sound menu and when I check I have sound from all speakers including the subwoofer. However when I use any application Banshee, Rhythmbox, VLC, Exaile, Guayadeque to name a few in all cases I only get the same mono sound from the speakers and no sound from the subwoofer.

I have checked alsamixer in terminal and nothing is muted. On Windows 7 the speakers work fine with full surround sound so it isn"t a hardware problem.

Can anyone give me advice on where to start looking for a problem?

Thanks

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-02-07
Have you tried playing some content that actually *has* multi-channel sound instead of just the stereo sound you'll get with music files?

Try playing a movie that has a 5.1 soundtrack or something.

---

### Post by joe&amp;nidhi on 2011-02-07
Sorry I should have explained this in my original post.

This is a new computer with Windows 7 and Ubuntu dual booting.

As soon as I noticed in Ubuntu that the sound was not correct using a music DVD with 5.1 surround I tried the same DVD in WIndows 7 which worked fine.

I have also tried CD's in the music players I mentioned and again on Winamp in WIndows which worked fine.

The main problem is there is no sound from the subwoofer. During startup of Ubuntu this does seem to work fine as you do get sound from the subwoofer but nothing when you use any of the media programs.

Very strange!

As I mentioned in my post I spent a week going through the forums trying to find a similar problem but found nothing exactly as this.

I can also confirm that I did have 5.1 surround with the same speakers on my old computer.

Thanks

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-02-07
A music DVD probably isn't 5.1. Windows is more then likely using sound filling to make stereo sound come from all speakers.

---

### Post by joe&amp;nidhi on 2011-02-07
I can definitely and unequivocally confirm the music DVD I used has 5.1 surround and you do get full 5.1 surround from WIndows.

This is just a minor annoyance but I would like to fix it. I prefer not to use Windows at all and haven't since 2007. I only had Windows put on this PC so my son can play PC games. However right now if I want to listen to music I have to boot into WIndows.

Anyway I have listened a bit more and actually I think there maybe is 5.1 surround but just the subwoofer has no sound giving the impression of mono.

I tried a different DVD with Dolby surround and you do get a sort of spatial effect from the sound but nothing from the subwoofer. There is no vibration from the subwoofer. Even if you play with the equaliser and move the bass to its highest setting you just get a flat sound and no vibration from the subwoofer. Again if I do this in Windows you can feel the vibration through the floor. My neighbours can also here it!

Thanks

---

### Post by joe&amp;nidhi on 2011-02-08
OK no takers.

Lets hypothesize a bit and see if I can jog anyones memory here.

It doesn't seem to be an issue with the OS as I can select 5.1 surround from sound and when I test the speakers I get the correct sounds from each speaker. Also at startup the welcome sound works OK.

The speakers are not the problem as they give 5.1 surround in Windows 7.

So it could be either an issue with the realtek sound (ALC889) or something with ALSA or pulseaudio.

Basically what I am asking is where to start to try and fix the problem.

Should I try to uninstall and then reinstall the ALSA and pulseaudio and if so how do I do this.

There is a linux driver for realtek but when I check on the forums I found people who installed the driver and got no sound so I am not keen on installing this without expert help.

Is there anyone who can suggest where to start.

Thanks

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-02-08
Try setting VLC to use ALSA in sound preferences, and then setting the audio menu sound output to 5.1, does that work?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-02-08
My guess would still be that you haven't tried with some content that really has 5.1 sound... (I've only ever seen _one_ music DVD that has that, and all your normal music files will be in stereo as well).

Try playing a DVD movie. If you get 5.1 sound from it, then I'm correct, and your 5.1 sound works fine (like everyhting this far would suggest)

Probably you just want some application that copies the stereo sound from front channels to other speakers (No music player in Ubuntu does that by default, instead the play the content in the format it really is...

---

### Post by joe&amp;nidhi on 2011-02-08
I am not sure whether this is solved or not but I have 5.1 surround.

I went back to the sound menu and just started to select each one in turn and when I set stereo duplex as if by magic I have 5.1 surround!

This is weird.

Anyone wish to comment on how this can happen.

Thanks

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-02-08
Just what I said, you had 5.1 sound working, but needed to enable the option to copy normal stereo sound to other speakers.

The normal way would be that stereo sound is played as stereo, and 5.1 sound is played as 5.1.

---

### Post by joe&amp;nidhi on 2011-02-08
Thanks to everyone who has given advice.

mcduck

You are probably right. 5.1 surround was there all the time just needed to find it. Trust me on the DVD you would never buy a DVD of ACDC performing live if it wasn't 5.1 it would be like buying a hamburger without the bun. If I play this on my DVD player the sound is awesome. You need to stand in the garden to fully appreciate it. Just ask my neighbour. 

NightwishFan

I went to VLC audio preferences and set ALSA as you suggested. AS for the 5.1 there is nothing in VLC I can find for this. Are you saying to set the 5.1 from the sound menu in Ubuntu.

On another point I am starting to think this is an issue with realtek. My colleague who built the PC for me and is not so knowledgable about Ubuntu, after all he is an IT professional,  just told me he had a big problem configuring the realtek audio in Windows 7 to run 5.1 surround. He didn't bother checking this in Ubuntu.

Thanks

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2011-02-08
The audio menu in VLC when set to pulse does not enable and channel options. You have to set to alsa then under the menu in vlc you can change to Stereo/5.1 etc. I was just wondering if this helps or not.

---

