---
title: ".htaccess / apache default extension?"
date: 2007-07-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BaJ on 2007-07-05
Hi guys, first post here, hello!

I've just got Ubuntu 7.04 set up and working nicely, have installed Apache2, PHP5, MySQL and so on as a nice local development server.

All is working ok but I'm having some trouble with the way Apache seems to be targetting files, which is in turn confusing my mod-rewrite with .htaccess.

As an example, if i browse to *[http://server/folder/join/](http://server/folder/join/)* then Apache appears to serve a file called *join.php *if it exists within the *folder* directory. This happens before any .htaccess rule is taken into account, as I have the following setup as a test which does nothing:

```

RewriteEngine On
RewriteRule ^join/php/ info.php [L]
RewriteRule ^join/ test.php [L]

```

I know it is loading join.php as if I change the above to:

```

RewriteEngine On
RewriteRule ^join2/php/ info.php [L]
RewriteRule ^join2/ test.php [L]

```

Then the URL's are succesfuly re-wrote and i am displayed the content of *info.php* or *test.php*. Is there any way to stop Apache from loading join.php when */join* or */join/* is entered in the url? Can I make it mandatory to only load pages when the full url is given?

Many thanks.

---

### Post by bulldog060 on 2007-07-05
As far as the .htaccess file; check in your httpd.conf and make sure that this servers <Directory> section is set to `AllowOverride All' if that line is set to `None' your .htaccess will be ignored and verify that the user that the web server is running as can read the file.

I have never seen that happen with a join page, my only thought would be to take a look at the DirectoryIndex lines of your httpd.conf and make sure join.php doesn't show up there.

If for some reason you really want to force the full URL ( I don't recommend this ... its evil ) change those DirectoryIndex lines to `DirectoryIndex None' and it will stop trying to find the default pages.

Hope this helps.

~ron

---

### Post by BaJ on 2007-07-05
Hi,

The .htaccess definately seems to be working as the second example in my opening post works ok. 

There just seems to be a clash if a file exists with the same name as a directory I am trying to fake with .htaccess.

Many thanks.

---

### Post by BaJ on 2007-07-09
Any one else have any ideas?

---

