---
title: "11.04 (Natty) Java 6 Keeping Me From Installing Anything"
date: 2011-10-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jamablama on 2011-10-06
So I tried to install Java 6 through the terminal. It got to the screen where there was a user agreement with "<ok>" at the bottom. I tried clicking it, pressing enter, etc. and nothing happened. So I closed the window and restarted my system. Well, now I can't install any programs. Whenever I try, it gives me this message. 


Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/aptdaemon/worker.py", line 961, in simulate
    trans.unauthenticated = self._simulate_helper(trans)
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/aptdaemon/worker.py", line 1085, in _simulate_helper
    return depends, self._cache.required_download, \
  File "/usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/apt/cache.py", line 226, in required_download
    pm.get_archives(fetcher, self._list, self._records)
SystemError: E:I wasn't able to locate file for the sun-java6-jre package. This might mean you need to manually fix this package.


I then tried reinstalling Java 6. Here is what showed up in my terminal.


jamablama@x:~$ sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jre sun-java6-plugin sun-java6-fonts
[sudo] password for jamablama: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
You might want to run 'apt-get -f install' to correct these:
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 sun-java6-jre : Depends: sun-java6-bin (>= 6.26-1~lffl~natty~ppa) but it is not going to be installed or
                          ia32-sun-java6-bin (>= 6.26-1~lffl~natty~ppa) but it is not installable
                 Recommends: gsfonts-x11 but it is not going to be installed
 sun-java6-plugin : Depends: sun-java6-bin (>= 6.26-1~lffl~natty~ppa) but it is not going to be installed
E: Unmet dependencies. Try 'apt-get -f install' with no packages (or specify a solution).
jamablama@x:~$ 


Please help. This is somewhat of a roadblock for me and I am unable to install any programs from the software center or terminal. thank you for your time. 
-Jamablama-

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-10-07
> **jamablama said:**
> So I tried to install Java 6 through the terminal. It got to the screen where there was a user agreement with "<ok>" at the bottom. I tried clicking it, pressing enter, etc. and nothing happened. So I closed the window and restarted my system. Well, now I can't install any programs. Whenever I try, it gives me this message. 
..........
Please help. This is somewhat of a roadblock for me and I am unable to install any programs from the software center or terminal. thank you for your time. 
-Jamablama-

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure debconf
```
Select "Gnome". Then try:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure sun-java6-jre
```

And you should be able to accept the licence now.

---

### Post by jamablama on 2011-10-07
> **dcstar said:**
> ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure debconf
```Select "Gnome". Then try:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure sun-java6-jre
```And you should be able to accept the licence now.


Thank you, but when I do that, I get the following code: 

jamablama@x:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure debconf
[sudo] password for jamablama: 
jamablama@x:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure sun-java6-jre
/usr/sbin/dpkg-reconfigure: sun-java6-jre is broken or not fully installed
jamablama@x:~$ ^C
jamablama@x:~$ 

I tried uninstalling Java (JRE) 6 in the software center but I get the error:

installArchives() failed: dpkg: error processing sun-java6-jre (--remove): 
 Package is in a very bad inconsistent state - you should 
 reinstall it before attempting a removal. 
No apport report written because MaxReports is reached already
Errors were encountered while processing: 
 sun-java6-jre 

I DO NOT UNDERSTAND :[ 
Please help.. 

-Jamablama

---

### Post by jimberry on 2011-10-07
I had a similar problem (see thread at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1853365&highlight=roadblock](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1853365&highlight=roadblock) )
I had earlier tried to install some Lucida fonts that needed the Sun JRE, which wasn't already installed (I use the default OpenJDK jre). This left me in a similar "catch-22" scenario where I could not install anything else, not even the missing Sun jre.   
It was eventually resolved after a couple of days when an error flag appeared in the "System Indicators" area at the top of the screen. Clicking on this gave me a helpful window where I was taken through the steps needed to resolve the issue.

---

### Post by IWantFroyo on 2011-10-07
Did you try this?
```
sudo apt-get install -f
```

This usually fixes problems like that for me.

---

