---
title: "12.04 kerberos and local passwd"
date: 2012-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sanflores on 2012-05-14
Hello all, here is my problem:

I have set up my notebook with an initial password, lets say "Local pwd" and I also have a Kerberos password from my work, lets say "Kerbero pwd".

I have installed krb5.

The problem is... that I'm getting locked in the domain server, and I found out that the problem is that I login to the notebook with "Local pwd", then it try to authenticate with the domain server, and it add 1 failed login attemp, then it authenticate locally, and I'm able to login.

The thing is... that after a couple of times, I get locked out from the domain, and I can't check mails, and access some related to work things.

This is my /etc/nsswitch.conf:

passwd:         files
group:          files
shadow:         files

hosts:          files dns
networks:       files

protocols:      db files
services:       db files
ethers:         db files
rpc:            db files

netgroup:       nis


it was like:
passwd:         compat
group:         compat
shadow:         compat

hosts:          files "something that I removed" dns


BUT... I still can login to my computer using the kerberos password... but as the home is encrypted with the notebook passwd, I can't use the pc.



I can't change my local passwd neither because if I type passwd... it's the same as invoking kpasswd.

What config file I am missing in order to be able to separate the kerberos from my /etc/passwd, /etc/shadow, /etc/groups, etc.

Thank you!

---

### Post by sanflores on 2012-05-14
Solved!

I had to touch every single file under /etc/pam.d/

---

