---
title: "11.04 64bit has some issues with file browsing"
date: 2011-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2011-07-27
Hi,

Fresh install of 11.04 64bit
3800 AMD 64 processor.
GS8400 PCI nvidia

Problem:

[LIST]
[*]Any webmail,or webpage that has features to attach a file, or browse and upload does not work properly.
[*]The screens only show black text on white backrounds and have no borders,buttons,colors,or images.
[*]I don't know if it's plugin related or not but I installed the sun java and removed icetea with NO EFFECT.
[/LIST]

Even in this forum if I want to attach a file same thing occurs.

See screenshots below of 10.10 and 11.04 notice the differences.
This was yahoo webmail trying to attach a email file.

Again this issue is not just yahoo but all sites that want you to browse to files, ebay,facebook etc.

Can anyone else please test this on yahoo,gmail or any other webmail or web feature that asks to browse to any location on your computer for a file.:confused:

Please advise
Thanks

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2011-07-27
I'm reinstalling after many attempts solve this it would appear that when booting to the flash drive ubuntu 11.04 does not create this effect.

I will re-install from fresh and with a new video card to see if perhaps the lack of driver support for my older video card causes fresh ubuntu not to install something that is needed to browse to location files etc. for webmail and such features.

I'll report back. And note that I did confirm that 3d was working with the experimental drivers for my unsupported nvidia card and all other features worked well. But just this one thing.

I'll report back the results of the reinstall.

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2011-07-27
Re-install has no effect.

Same problem persists very very strange

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2011-07-28
Turning off compiz and booting to ubuntu (no effects) has no effect either

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2011-07-30
Bug posted:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/818595](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/818595)

Further investigation determined that disabling the shockwave plugin allows everything regarding this file navigation topic to work perfectly.

Anyhow waiting to see if there is any solution.

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2011-08-08
Anyone know about this bug ? in 11.04

I guess I may have to re-install 10.10 because this is sort of a major problem.

I can't watch any vid or news with shockwave plugin disabled, and can't use a lot of features online with shockwave enabled.


Shockwave off file browse and upldoad feature works, Shockwave on doesn't work and disables online video viewing like yahoo news etc and more.

Please see the bug post for the details, I'm considering bailing out of 11.04 and back to 10.10

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2011-08-10
Skype is also effected by this bug where this is lack of buttons,borders,colors and failed clicks where buttons should be but only show white backround and black text to click on.

---

