---
title: "17.10 Can't find programs installed with snap"
date: 2017-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by donas2 on 2017-10-20
Hi,

I have tried to install several programs with snap and all behave similarly, so for simplicity will give an example of Clementine. The installation runs successfully and if I run snap list, I see program installed. I can run it with snap run clementine or ./clementine from the folder. However I can not add it to favorites or find it in the launcher, on the other hand software center shoes it as installed. I have tried to copy clementine.desktop file to either /usr/share/applications and to ~/.local/share/applications, however do not see it in the launcher as well. Is running snap run command the only way to start programs  or I miss something simple? Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2017-10-20
I've only installed one snap program and uninstalled it shortly thereafter, so I can't speak specifically about snaps. 

Were you able to see the snap desktop file in ~/.local/share/applications ?  If it's there, is the icon viewable?  If not, is the .desktop file executable?

If so, can you drag the icon from the "Applications" window directly onto the Dock/launcher?

We'll both learn something about snaps ...

---

### Post by mc4man on 2017-10-20
Taking Clementine as an example.
If you open the 'overview' & type clementine doesn't it show up? (with a generic binary icon
If so it should open & you could add to favorites if desired

However getting it to use the proper icon in the launcher seems hard if not impossible. Probably a bug in snap creation, if there is a way to file bugs on snaps do so (not aware of myself.
May be a matter of using an email to present issues if you can find in the snap's info..

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2017-10-20
I have Ubuntu 17.10 with Unity 7 installed and also the Notes snap. With Unity I can launch Notes from it icon in the Dash and lock it to the launcher. With the Ubuntu Wayland session I can launch Notes from its Activities icon and add the icon to favorites. So, at least on snap app does what we  expect.

There should be a folder in home/snap/ for the app and again in /snap/  I have yet to find where the icons are located.

Regards.

---

### Post by donas2 on 2017-10-20
the desktop file was not copied to  ~/.local/share/applications automatically, so I copied it there, but that does not have any impact. When I start the program from cli I have normal icon on dock, but can not lock to favorites as no such option.

---

### Post by donas2 on 2017-10-20
there is no trace of clementine when I search for it in overview, the way to run program is to run 'snap run clementine' or go to /snap/clementine and run './clementine'. It runs okay and shows correct icon, however I can not lock it to dock for quick launch or find in launcher. If I install it trough apt, everything works fine, so I was wondering what does the snap do special..

---

### Post by mc4man on 2017-10-20
> **donas2 said:**
> there is no trace of clementine when I search for it in overview, the way to run program is to run 'snap run clementine' or go to /snap/clementine and run './clementine'. It runs okay and shows correct icon, however I can not lock it to dock for quick launch or find in launcher. If I install it trough apt, everything works fine, so I was wondering what does the snap do special..
If you have both the .deb & the snap installed then things may react differently. (sorta defeats the supposed advantage of a snap..
See screen, no .deb installed, shows up in overview.. can be added to gnome-shell launcher, ect.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2017-10-20
After reading the previous posts I reinstalled the gimp snap. When opened, it put an icon on the launcher and I was able to lock it to the Dock, so it isn't a pure snap issue.

grahammechanical's post reminded me the package is in ~/snap/ and not in ~/.local/share/applications.  While experimenting with the snap package, I was able to launch it from a desktop file I created but couldn't drag it to the launcher when it wasn't open. 

Edit: Deleted due to working again...

Newly opened apps (non-snaps) are still appearing and can be locked, as well as dragged from the open "Applications" window (default lower left button on Dock).

**UPON FURTHER EXAMINATION:**
With a normal app (in my case GIMP) already installed, adding the snap version changes a few files. It removes the executable bit on the gimp.desktop file in /usr/share/applications. This causes the snap version to run and the snap version is also the one that is displayed when the "Applications" button is selected.  Running the terminal command "gimp" opens the old version, while "snap run gimp", as you would suspect, opens the snap version.

A .desktop file for the snap version of GIMP is in located in several locations including /snap/gimp/25/usr/share/applications .  Interestingly, the only gimp.desktop file I found that had the executable bit set was in  /var/lib/snapd/desktop/applications  (gimp_gimp.desktop)
I know you were interested in Clementine, but this is the only snap I have installed. Hopefully it will add some insight.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2017-10-20
If you want an icon for the snap Clementine ( i.e. the deb version is not installed) then copy the .svg to /usr/share/pixmaps
So here - 
```
sudo cp /snap/clementine/current/share/icons/hicolor/scalable/apps/clementine.svg  /usr/share/pixmaps/
```

---

### Post by donas2 on 2017-10-22
Solved it by adding '/snap/ bin' path to /etc/environment file.

---

### Post by greg53 on 2018-02-13
When I run in Xorg, /snap/bin is in my path, but it isn't when I run under Wayland. Any ideas why that would be?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-02-13
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/29071/apt-get-update-cannot-find-ubuntu-servers](https://askubuntu.com/questions/29071/apt-get-update-cannot-find-ubuntu-servers)

---

