---
title: "Installation via Internet not Practical"
date: 2008-09-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dgoddard1 on 2008-09-16
Where do I get installable packages of software such as Gnome-PPP.
PLEASE DON'T tell me about the repositories unless you can tell me how to get an _installable_ package downloaded from there, rather than doing an install over the internet.  

I have only dial up connection of limited reliability and have to get my applications in an _installable_ package residing on a drive before I start the install process.  

I currently have no internet connection for my Ubuntu computer, that is why I need an _installable_ version of Gnome-PPP

Should I need to reinstall Ubuntu at some future date I will need to have a copy of this to re-establish internet communication before I can do any sort of internet install of anything! (and nothing of any size can be expected to successfully survive my dial up line unreliability)

---

### Post by IllegalCharacter on 2008-09-16
Go to the Ubuntu packages site: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/)

You can search from that page for the package you want. You can then click to the packages page, and download the .deb file there. You can install .deb files offline, but make sure you get the dependencies as well.

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-09-16
I use to be on dial up so I sort of understand but gnome-ppp is not a big package and it use to be on the install cd. The developers just stopped including it in the default install because there are not as many dial up users as there once were.
From the debian package pages gnome-ppp is [here]("http://packages.debian.org/etch/gnome-ppp").

Since you say you are having an unreliable connection I recommend you open a terminal and issue "sudo pppconfig" set up that correctly and perhaps your dial up will work better.

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-09-16
*** to dependencies I believe a normal desktop install already has everything that gnome-ppp needs it's just a frontend for wvdial.

From the debian package site:
> GNOME PPP is an easy to use graphical dialup connection configuring and dialing tool with system tray icon support.

It uses GNOME/GTK+ for its graphical interface and integrates well in GNOME desktop environment, but it can be used in other environments.

It also uses WvDial dialer as its backend, providing simple configuration via config files. You can also use plain wvdial if you don't have X running. 

---

### Post by Locutus_of_Borg on 2008-09-16
apt-get -d

will download only

---

### Post by ryanhaigh on 2008-09-16
Using apt-get will download the all the required dependencies before trying to install anyway and if the download is interrupted the partial file is still stored so you can resume simply by re-issuing the install command. I am sure that synaptic works the same way. 

I cannot see the advantage of downloading a package by visiting a website as apposed to using synaptic/apt-get after all, unless I missed something, you are still on the same connection.

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-09-16
Having used dial up I totally understand why the OP wants to do this and gnome-ppp has no additional dependencies-provided it's being installed to a gnome desktop install.

I often had a copy of gnome-ppp or chestnut dialer saved so I could install it and have my set up working rather then trying to get a connection using the terminal.

---

### Post by dgoddard1 on 2008-09-19
> **IllegalCharacter said:**
> Go to the Ubuntu packages site: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/](http://packages.ubuntu.com/)

You can search from that page for the package you want. You can then click to the packages page, and download the .deb file there. You can install .deb files offline, but make sure you get the dependencies as well.

Thankyou, I got the file called 
     gnome-ppp_0.3.23-1_i386.deb 
using a MS Windows computer and have copied the file into a directory on my Ubuntu Laptop.  

BUT now what do I do to get this thing installed as a working application.  I have not worked with doing installations of applications on Linux.

---

### Post by Holonet on 2008-09-19
In Ubuntu, a deb file should be installable by double clicking it.

---

### Post by dgoddard1 on 2008-09-21
I got Gnom-ppp and the installation was simple,
However when I run it, I get a message "Can not open modem".

When I check the log, I get:
--> Ignoring malformed input line: "Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial; Internet dialer version 1.60
--> Cannot open /dev/modem: No such file or directory
--> Cannot open /dev/modem: No such file or directory
--> Cannot open /dev/modem: No such file or directory

Running WvDial in a terminal window produces the same as the last 4 ines above.

This happens regardless of which usb port I am plugged into. (I assume that is irrelevent, but I did try it to see)
 
The lights on the modem seem to indicate that it is powered up and ready.

So as yet there seems to be something missing. Do I need to make some sort of file or is there something I have to do to let Gnome-ppp know to look for a usb modem rather than an internal one?

---

### Post by windoze87 on 2008-09-21
you have to figure out what your modem is mounted as in Ubuntu...I'd give you the directions to how i got my Verizon Aircard to work since it's technically a modem too, but it's one thing to unplug a usb cable and another to take out a modem. If it's in a PCI slot that makes it easy but if it's built-in, that's a whole other ballgame. If your modem plugs into a PCI slot and you can't figure anything else out, post back saying so and i'll tell you how to go about doing it

---

### Post by dgoddard1 on 2008-09-21
> **windoze87 said:**
> you have to figure out what your modem is mounted as in Ubuntu.......

I think it is not mounted at all.  Because:
-- I opened a terminal window.
-- I issued the command "mount"
-- I took a screen shot of all mounted items as displayed by the mount command.

Then
-- I shut down the computer, 
-- I removed the modem
-- I rebooted
-- I did terminal, mount, screen shot thing again.

Both times the list of mounted items was identical

The US Robotics manual says that with Linux Kernel 2.4.20 and higher with plug and play activated, the that installation is automatic.  My kernel is 2.6.24-16-generic

The US Robotics manual says that I should "verify that you have a USB modem driver (CDC ACM) compiled into a Linux kernal 2.4.20 or higher or as a loadable module for your kernel."
**_How do I do that?_**

**_What am I missing here ?_**

---

### Post by dgoddard1 on 2008-09-21
Further testing per the instructions on the US Robotics disc have indicated that Ubuntu knows the modem is there.
At their recommendation and acting as root 
1. 
I issued the command lsusb and found among the results a line
"Bus 007 Device 004 ID 0baf:0303 U.S. Robotics"
2. 
Per US Robotics manual to verify the CDC ACM module as loaded I issued the command lsmod
I saw among the lines of out put
"cdc_acm         17056 0"  
These were under the headings "Module", "Size", and "Used by" respectively
3.
The US Robotics Manual then said that I might need to enable the driver with the command 
modprobe cdc_acm
I did this and the terminal window returned to the prompt without other output.
4. The Us robotics manual said some distributions will automatically create a device note for the modem in /dev.  Searching that directory I found the line
"crw-rw----  1 root   dialout 166,    0 2008-09021-19:41" ttyACM0" 
That time was about the time turned the computer on This line was similar to their sample line which read:
"crw-rw----  1 root   uucp 166,   0 2007-09-12 10:33 ttyACM0"
5. US Robotics suggested using minicom to access the device note but I don't have that,  
6. They also suggested internet dialers, I tried gnome-ppp again and still got the cant open 
7.Then I reviewed the setup and tired the detect whichwas still showing the default"/dev/modem" I clicked on detect and it found the /dev/ttyACMO  I then clicked on type and found USB Modem.

Finally it worked !!! 

Of course which of those steps was/were the critical one(s) I am not sure.

The connection speed is quite slow compared to my win2k box, I guess I will have to work on that a bit.

Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-09-21
You may want to have a look ath this page here:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DialupModemHowto)

Jim

---

