---
title: "8.04 - Instant messenger needed"
date: 2008-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zx6r1033 on 2008-08-31
Im looking for a new instant messenger to use with 8.04. Pidgin just isn't cutting it (unless there is a setting I missed along the way in my several attempts at searching the program), or unless there is a plugin available.

I need something that will actually pop up on top of what you are currently working on, so it won't go unnoticed. all too often, I miss IMs because pidgin won't do that.

any ideas?

---

### Post by wingnux on 2008-08-31
I don`t think this is the right section to post since IMs aren`t games but you could give emesene or amsn a try. Both are on the ubuntu repositories.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-08-31
Moved to active general help.  There is a way to for it to pop up.  I'm not in it now, but you can set it to blink also, so you see it.

---

### Post by P.KO on 2008-08-31
There's a plugin called Message Notification. Maybe that's your solution.

---

### Post by Ryadt on 2008-08-31
emesene got a plugin called notification. You can customize it if you want.

---

### Post by 3DGE on 2008-08-31
I like aMSN it is almost like MSN but its just for Linux and its has some different features.

---

### Post by zx6r1033 on 2008-08-31
I'm really sorry... I should have specified that I need it to be compatible with AIM. 


I've tried the notification plugin for Pidgin, but no option for popping up to the top of your windows. The blinking isn't enough to get my attention most of the time.

---

### Post by Ng Oon-Ee on 2008-09-22
Have you tried guifications? That's what I use.

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2008-09-23
The "Raise conversation window" and "Present conversation window" settings in the Message Notification plugin for Pidgin don't do what you're asking?

---

### Post by gukina on 2008-09-23
Maybe he doesn't know of it

right click on your buddy select 'add buddy pounce' Check the options you want, then click save.

---

### Post by bigbrovar on 2008-09-23
Go to synaptic search for and install pidgin-libnotify .. or open terminal and run ```
sudo apt-get install pidgin-libnotify
``` 
once installed go to to pidgin under Tools Plugins and tick the Libnotify Popups ... that should do it .. u can also following the same process install pidgin-guifications .. but i prefer pidgin-libnotify

---

### Post by rossjman1 on 2008-09-23
I agree with guifications. Get it here [http://plugins.guifications.org/trac/wiki/Guifications](http://plugins.guifications.org/trac/wiki/Guifications). Themes here [http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=browse&group_id=92888&atid=676821](http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=browse&group_id=92888&atid=676821).

---

### Post by RudolfMDLT on 2008-09-23
I would suggest Kopete. It is one of the best chat clients I have ever used! Just search for it in the repo!

---

### Post by kingfourat on 2008-10-01
> **RudolfMDLT said:**
> I would suggest Kopete. It is one of the best chat clients I have ever used! Just search for it in the repo!

Yep, go see [http://kopete.kde.org/](http://kopete.kde.org/)

And there is [How to make you're IM talk in Ubuntu]("http://www.howtoadvice.com/ListenToIM/")

But if you may make a search you can found something like this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=388114](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=388114)

---

### Post by kiisu on 2009-03-05
+1 for Kopete.
Can do AIM and I never miss a message.
Seems to be even more compatible with a KDE desktop but I used it in the past with Gnome and the notifications were satisfactory.

---

### Post by Crys1sw0w on 2010-03-04
Ye m8 try koppete i am using it on 7.04 and its really good and it got a notifier too...

---

### Post by hexwind on 2010-04-25
> **zx6r1033 said:**
> Im looking for a new instant messenger to use with 8.04. Pidgin just isn't cutting it (unless there is a setting I missed along the way in my several attempts at searching the program), or unless there is a plugin available.

I need something that will actually pop up on top of what you are currently working on, so it won't go unnoticed. all too often, I miss IMs because pidgin won't do that.

any ideas?
Install emesene, i use it and it's awesome !

---

