---
title: "12.04.1 Server The installer won't detect the hard drive."
date: 2013-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by luizherege on 2013-04-16
For some reason the installer just say that "No disk drive was detected." and the ask me to chose an option from a enormous list of hard disk drivers this only after i hit esc and choose to pass thru the hardware detection again. On the first run prompt it ask me if ia wanna activate the raid configuration, 'cause the installer detected "One or more devices are on raid. Do you wanna activate those raid devices?"


I choose yes then i get on a screen
"Partition disks"
Configure ISCSI
Undo changes
Finish and write


The last one prompt a screen where say error 'cause "No root file system is defined."


So for some reason my installer isn't detecting the hard disks properly, I tried another installer (a 64 bit one) and isn't working either.


I have no ideia if is something bios related, but the fact is gparted work it not only detect the hard disks as let me create partition tables. And the bios Seem pretty well the POST detect the devices and appers a beautiful green text saying that the disks are ok.


Still i got this problem. And i'm lost any thoughts are helpful.


Specs:
Intel sv5000vsa
hd:
2 barracuda 7200.12  1TB on raid

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-04-16
What type of RAID?

Did you follow the instructions here:
[http://www.intel.com/support/chipsets/imsm/sb/CS-022830.htm](http://www.intel.com/support/chipsets/imsm/sb/CS-022830.htm)

By the way: Ubuntu Desktop can do everything Ubuntu Server can do. It has a bit more overhead, but that will only affect you if you are running a high-volume web site or a high-volume database. Setting it up takes about 10% as much effort.

---

### Post by m4gnus on 2013-04-16
I believe, if memory serves me right, I ran into the exact same issue with that exact release before I was finally able to install my server.
I had to do a lot of digging but I wound up having to do several things but only one thing worked...

If you don't care about the data on your drive let's start with removing the GPT info from the drive:

# parted /dev/<devicename> (usually /dev/sda)

Once you're in parted...

mktable [enter]
-> Table type: msdos
-> Destroy data: yes
-> quit

GPT should be removed...from this point restart and attempt to install as normal.

(I got the GPT info from [here]("http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/linux-general-1/cant-get-rid-of-gpt-disk-label-729209/"))

---

### Post by luizherege on 2013-04-17
Thanks for the replys. Well what solved for me was deleting all partition table via gparted creating a msdos one. Then letting the raid configuration on the motherboard BIOS and usgin the raid assistent of the own ubuntu server setup.

---

