---
title: "32 to 64 bit?"
date: 2010-07-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jjloupe on 2010-07-21
I have an old system, and want to upgrade the MOBO and processor. I am running Ubuntu 10.04 32bit...If I upgrade the MOBO and CPU to a 64 bit system....what will happen?

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2010-07-21
system will run fine, hopefully faster. (I assume your newer parts will be faster than the old)
All 64 bit CPU and mobo are still 32 bit compatible.

I think as long as you have the standard kernel, not one that you edited and compiled yourself, your computer should boot fine.

Just make sure your RAM, Video card, etc is all compatible with the new motherboard.

---

### Post by jjloupe on 2010-07-26
Thanks! Yes, I am getting a mobo, cpu, video combo. I am on an OLD Dell desktop that isn't cutting it anymore, and you can't get the RAM for it either. Time to upgrade!

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-07-26
You probably can get RAM for the old dell, but I can see why an upgrade would be nice. Good luck ;) 

BTW, dont forget to get a new power supply.

---

### Post by jjloupe on 2010-07-26
awwww, do I have to? LOL. I was trying to make this as cheap and easy as possible.

---

### Post by PaulReaver on 2010-07-26
do you mean that you'll be keeping the your old hard disk with an install of ubuntu.

I transferred a hard disk with ubuntu on from my acer to my own build am3 quad core and it worked fine.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-07-26
> **jjloupe said:**
> awwww, do I have to? LOL. I was trying to make this as cheap and easy as possible.

Unless its a fairly new del, it will probably have a 250-350watt power supply. Which probably isnt quite enough for a new system. Besides that, if its a few years old it just wont put out the power it says it will on the sticker (capictor aging, etc). 

You can risk it, but I wouldnt.

---

### Post by jjloupe on 2010-07-26
Yes, I have a new WD Caviar Black 1TB HD. I was planning to replace the mobo/processor/memory and hope it just boots up like a new system.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-07-27
It probably will do. 

Of course, if your using 10.04 plymouth will cover up any error messages.....

---

### Post by jjloupe on 2010-07-27
> **cascade9 said:**
> It probably will do. 

Of course, if your using 10.04 plymouth will cover up any error messages.....

What is Plymouth?...I never heard of this problem.

---

### Post by cascade9 on 2010-07-27
Plymouth is a graphic boot splash screen. 

I *think* there is some way to get the 'traditional' boot msgs back with plymouth, but I dont know how.....I prefer to have as little to do with what I consider a pointless bit of eyecandy as possible.

---

