---
title: "8.04, kde &amp; compiz"
date: 2008-07-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stephan0h on 2008-07-21
It's been hard ... to install hardy - but finally I'm on 8.04 apart from some minor issues:

I've activated compiz for kde - now I can't switch between virtual desktops anymore - I'm restricted to one desktop only. That's a pity! Any workaround to that?

Furthermore my box seems to hang when shutting down from within kde. But it seems to help pressing ctrl-alt-del though. Is this windows-compatibility mode ore a bug? ;-) Any help to get past that?

And furthermore: how can I disable compiz and go back to good old kde window manager?

Thanks for all the help,
stephan

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-07-21
Bumped to the top since I moved it here for better support on compiz. :)

---

### Post by kidux on 2008-07-22
To disable compiz, you should be able to just type in metacity --replace in the ALT+F2 launcher. As far as virtual desktops, did you increase the number to 4 in the Desktop Cube options?

Also, what video card are you using? ATI has serious issues with Compiz, so a lot of those won't work.

Edit: KDE doesn't use metacity, huh? Sorry, it should work just to replace metacity in the above with whatever KDE does use.

---

### Post by stephan0h on 2008-07-22
I've got an ATI card - Radeon something. After installing the latest propietory driver things improved much, even composite works. 

Virtual Desktops: I tried to set them up the same way as in old kde: somewhere in the system settings. as for "Desktop cubes" - i don't know about this. I assume this is a compiz setting?

thanks,
stephan

---

### Post by kidux on 2008-07-22
Yes, you should have installed CompizConfig Settings Manager, or CCSM. Under there, you'll need to set it to have 4 virtual desktops.

---

### Post by stephan0h on 2008-07-25
thanks, virtual desktops work now (nearly - only 2 are working but 4 are displayd on the lower bar).

Still, the other problem I have still - I can't shutdown my box from within x windows - i need to issue the shutdown command.

but this is probably no compiz problem ...

thanks,
stephan

---

### Post by RuleMaker on 2008-07-26
It's because you haven't added those workspaces properly, you must right-click on one of the existing two workspaces, then go to Preferences and set column number to 4, and delete the duplicated workspace switcher from your panel.

---

