---
title: "8.10  need abrowser"
date: 2008-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by quasimodo69 on 2008-11-12
Hey Gang,
Got a question.Since the last 2 updates I have been having a problem with Epiphiny browser.I had problems with Firefox frezing and stumbling...Epiphany worked fine when I first installed it...but the last 2 updates caused it to do the same thing as Firefox..
At first with Firefox -when i scrolled through a page it was jerky and delayed before it responded to my wheel on the mouse-Epiphany did the same after the last 2 updates.Then Epiphany started locking up..or it would go to the next page and just show a gray screen.
I deleted and re-installed Epiphany and it worked great for about 10 minutes..and then it started doing the same thing.So I have to thing it was one of the updates to 8.10 that I let re-install.
I need to know if there is another browser to use?Firefox has been to unstable with the latest updates..such a shame..the certificate updates that locked it up...
Opera has just been too big for me.I don't need all the things it wants to do..I just want a browser.
Thnx in Advace
Rickm:)

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-11-12
One word, [Opera ]("http://www.opera.com/") :)

---

### Post by Skripka on 2008-11-12
> **tuxxy said:**
> One word, [Opera ]("http://www.opera.com/") :)

Yep.

And do yourself a FAVOR.  Get yourself Privoxy:

[http://www.privoxy.org/](http://www.privoxy.org/)

The included ad-blocker on Opera is primitive and pitiful.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-11-12
Privoxy is available from Intrepid's repositories.

---

### Post by quasimodo69 on 2008-11-12
Hey Gang,
Thanks for the replys.So we have Epiphany,Firefox and Opera...that's it for my choices?

Keep up the good fight against Micro$oft...rail against the machine!!

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2008-11-12
There are several browsers in the repositories. A couple that I have installed and not got to using yet and a few more that I haven't used. I have to keep two or three browsers open to go to a couple of sites with different accounts so I have really liked Firefox and Epiphany. The problems people are having with them have kept me from being willing to upgrade to 8.10. I sguess before long the will have them fixed.

---

### Post by soro2005 on 2008-11-12
Well, in the end, the choice is Gecko (*fox, Epiphany, Galeon, etc.), Khtml and Webkit (Konqueror, Midori--well, not yet), and Opera, isn't it? Epiphany is also moving over to Webkit as far as I understand. Konqueror is probably too much of a hassle for the normal Gnome desktop, but it should not go unmentioned since we're talking about alternatives. :guitar:

---

### Post by bgs100 on 2008-11-12
Try dillo.  I hear its lightweight and fast.

---

### Post by quasimodo69 on 2008-11-22
I downloaded Opera-I am running 8.10 an an AMD 64 box.When I tried to download the 64 bit version-the package manager said it was the wrong version.So I cleaned it out and went for the i386 ver.It downloaded and installed fine...but when I oipened it..all of the drop down menus are blank-just a star or file icon and no wording as to what they are...?
Thanx if anybody has an idea what the problem is?
By the way-the version of Opera I chose was 9.62...

---

