---
title: "In 16.04, Alt+Space shortuct does not work after reboot"
date: 2017-04-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by prasto on 2017-04-11
I set Alt+Space to launch synapse app (or albert). 
Via compiz or dconf (I tried both) I disabled Alt+Space for launching main menu. 

This works, however after reboot I have to do it all over again, despite setting stays same (disabled in compiz or dconf). 

**Is there some workaround for this, so I don't have to do it manually everytime ? **

I also tried manually recompile this: 
```
/usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/org.gnome.desktop.wm.keybindings.gschema.xml
```
but it did not work either :/

Thanks for any help.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2017-04-11
Can't you use something other than Alt+Space? What about Ctrl+Space? I used to use that to launch Kupfer.

---

### Post by prasto on 2017-04-13
I can, but I don't want to :) 
CTRL+SPACE is not an option for me, because I am working in the soft where CTRL+SPACE is used as shortuct which cannot be changed.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-04-14
When you say you tried it via compiz, does that mean that you tried it under "Commands" in CompizConfig Settings Manager?

---

### Post by prasto on 2017-04-16
> **efflandt said:**
> When you say you tried it via compiz, does that mean that you tried it under "Commands" in CompizConfig Settings Manager?

No, I made it via 'general option' > 'key bindings'
Do you know how to set it via commands? What is the command to launch albert or synapse ?

---

### Post by jimmyytran on 2018-04-13
I had the same issue and fixed this by disabling the use of the 'alt' key in  CompizConfig Settings Manager -> Unity Unity Plugin  -> Key to show the menu bar while pressed -> Disable. Also disable CompizConfig Settings Manager -> General Options -> Key bindings -> Window Menu.

Currently using Albert with no issues after reboot.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2018-04-13
Old thread closed.

---

