---
title: "11.10 restricted extras - fonts accept window hides"
date: 2011-11-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by candtalan on 2011-11-10
Just after a fresh install of Ubuntu 11.10 I did the updates then straight away installed Ubuntu restricted extras.
I could see the install progress bar moving along in sort of stages, ok. However it was getting late and it did not seem to show signs of a fast completion. So I reluctantly left the PC running overnight, hoping  a longer time would see the download completed. 
Next morning, no change, the progress bar was still not quite completed. There had been no progress at all overnight. Reluctantly I closed the Software Centre window. And immediately saw an acceptance window  had been hiding behind it! Too late. I had already acted to close the Software Centre (SC) window, although soon  I reopened the SC windows and it indicated that Ubuntu Restricted extras was installed. However the confusion had lost the MS fonts (later discovery) which I also wanted in this PC.

How could I avoid this happening again to me I wondered? For some reason I had been using full screen size windows (I do not know why), and so the SC window had easily obscured the late arriving fonts acceptance window. Later tests indicated that the fonts acceptance window at first appears as the front window (I think) but does not -stay- at the front so any busy innocent clicking around will have changed front window priority.

I then recalled a similar struggle I had not long ago when I could not get the fonts back again.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1831914](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1831914)

I suppose if the 'fonts accept' window forced to keep itself in front it would be  better, is there a way to encourage this?

---

