---
title: "20.04 exFAT support - issues?"
date: 2020-07-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by exharris on 2020-07-03
Recently installed Ubuntu Server 20.04.

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Arial][FONT=inherit]I have 2 internal HDDs in this PC that were formatted in exFAT under Windows 10 before I wiped the PC to install Ubuntu Server.  

I used exFAT in case I ever need to move these internal drives back to a Windows machine (or, indeed, wipe the OS on this machine and install Windows instead).
 
I did not want to use a file system that Windows would not recognise (in hindsight, I perhaps wish I had used NTFS!  but it is what it is!)

My fstab rows for these are below
[/FONT]
```
#INT-1TB-4K Internal HDD mount to /mnt/INT-1TB-4K
UUID=0E7E-6579 /mnt/INT-1TB-4K exfat defaults, permissions 0 0

#INT-1TB-BAK Internal HDD mount to /mnt/INT-1TB-BAK
UUID=3037-96B0 /mnt/INT-1TB-BAK exfat defaults, permissions 0 0
```

[FONT=inherit]I have not installed any special exfat packages and understood kernel level support in 20.04 for exFAT.
[/FONT]
[FONT=inherit]/mnt ls-all gives
[/FONT]
```
exharris@plexserv:/mnt$ ls -all
total 520
drwxr-xr-x  4 root root   4096 Jul  2 09:32 .
drwxr-xr-x 20 root root   4096 Jul  2 05:15 ..
drwxr-xr-x  9 root root 262144 Jul  3 03:49 INT-1TB-4K
drwxr-xr-x  7 root root 262144 Jul  3 03:49 INT-1TB-BAK

```

[FONT=inherit]I get permission denied errors in the terminal when trying to create files in these folders (unless I use 'sudo', of course). This is because the 'others' write bit is set to -.
[/FONT]
[FONT=inherit]When running sudo chmod -R 777 INT-1TB-4K from /mnt, I get no errors, but when doing ls -all again, nothing has changed.
[/FONT]
[FONT=inherit]This is causing me problems also as I have set these up as Samba shares and also cannot write to them from other machines.
[/FONT]
[FONT=inherit]I also tried sudo chmod -R o+w INT-1TB-4K - same thing happened.

[FONT=courier new]man mount [/FONT]shows no info on exFAT at all.

Is this problem with chmod because the exFAR kernel level implementation at this stage is not properly implemented or am I doing something wrong? [/FONT]


[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by dino99 on 2020-07-03
to work with exfat, do:

sudo apt install exfat-fuse exfat-utils

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2020-07-03
ExFAT doesn't provide the security and authentication fatures that a UNIX system needs.  Reformatting a disk is trivial and can be done with a Linux boot disc.  So rather spare yourself the hassle and install Linux properly with a real file system.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2020-07-03
I'm not sure what permissions is but the options in fstab need to be continuous without spaces.
(Should be defaults,permissions instead of default, permissions)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2020-07-03
Maybe the newer version works better?
[https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=New-exFAT-For-Linux-5.7](https://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=New-exFAT-For-Linux-5.7)

---

