---
title: "19.04 - Keep getting &quot;/dev/sda1: clear ...&quot; message when booting. Why?"
date: 2019-12-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-07
As the title says, I get this message when booting and shutting down, followed by some block numbers. I haven't done any major changes to the system, so I wonder where this comes from.
It's not fatal in any way, but very annoying. It also turns up when doing a GRUB-menu boot, but then in low-res.

How to get rid of it?

Thank You.

---

### Post by crip720 on 2019-12-07
If it says clean plus numbers, that should only be the file check saying everything is good.  If it says clear,  hope someone else knows.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-07
> **crip720 said:**
> If it says clean plus numbers, that should only be the file check saying everything is good.  If it says clear,  hope someone else knows.

Sorry, yes it says "clean" plus numbers. But I've not had this before and wonder where it comes from. Is there a setting to get rid of this?

Thanks,

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-12-07
fsck is set by entries in /etc/fstab to check the mounted filesystems every boot. Usually, you don't see the output, but it's recorded in the systemd journal:

```
[dmn@Tyana ~]$ journalctl -b | grep systemd-fsck
Dec 07 16:02:52 Tyana systemd-fsck[698]: Fedora: clean, 357736/2244608 files, 5845104/8960000 blocks

```

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-07
> **Dennis N said:**
> fsck is set by entries in /etc/fstab to check the mounted filesystems every boot. Usually, you don't see the output, but it's recorded in the systemd journal:

```
[dmn@Tyana ~]$ journalctl -b | grep systemd-fsck
Dec 07 16:02:52 Tyana systemd-fsck[698]: Fedora: clean, 357736/2244608 files, 5845104/8960000 blocks

```

Interesting.

This is my fstab:

```
  # <file system> <mount point> <type> <options> <dump> <pass>

 

 UUID=0f96d4bd-84f6-431e-8120-a4a89244ac8d    /    ext4    defaults,discard    0    1
 UUID=9f526df8-85d8-47cf-ac66-90a7e93ed117    none    swap    defaults    0    0
 tmpfs    /tmp    tmpfs    defaults,noatime,mode=1777    0    0


```

Do you see anything here to trigger this behaviour?

Thanks.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-12-07
In both Kubuntu 19.04 and 19.10 I'll see the output from the filesystem check on the screen briefly during boot. Its appearance has been a fairly recent phenomenon.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-12-08
> **ml9104 said:**
> Interesting. Do you see anything here to trigger this behaviour?...
Thanks.
The last number in any line (the pass field) determines how fsck treats each file system. See man page for fstab for the full explanation of the values (enter **man fstab** in your terminal).

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-12-08
Those lines are indeed output from the filesystem check. That check is supposed to happen, but the output should be hidden by the splash screen, but that doesn't always work very well. In fact, I've seen these lines appear during boot for over a year. My splash screen only shows for a handful of seconds during boot. I don't care, the splash screen serves no real purpose anyway.

---

