---
title: "17.10: Enable touchpad while using keyboard"
date: 2017-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mistcloud-misty on 2017-12-10
I'm trying to play games on this laptop but the problem is I can't use the keyboard 'and' the touchpad at the same time which is making it impossible to move 'and' look around with the touchpad. I've gone through my touchpad settings but there is no option in the usual Touchpad and Mouse program to do this. Currently it is disabled and I want to enable it, so I can type 'and' use the touchpad. 

I've been looking up how to do this but can't seem to find anything for my distribution and nothing is working.

Anyone know how to do this?

---

### Post by jasomux on 2017-12-10
I assume you are using the default Gnome desktop and second that you're referring to the missing "Disable touchpad while typing" setting. If both of these assumptions are true, here's how you can fix it.

You will have to open terminal by pressing Ctrl+Alt+t or choosing Terminal from the Applications menu. In the terminal enter the following command:

```
gsettings list-recursively org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad
```

You should see output like this (this is from my laptop):

```
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad send-events 'enabled'
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad natural-scroll true
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad tap-to-click false
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad two-finger-scrolling-enabled false
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad left-handed 'mouse'
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad click-method 'default'
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad speed 0.50359712230215825
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad scroll-method 'two-finger-scrolling'
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad tap-and-drag true
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad edge-scrolling-enabled true
org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad disable-while-typing true
```

The first line "send-events" tells whether the touchpad is on or off. The last line "disable-while-typing" is the setting in question. To turn this setting off, use the following command:

```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.peripherals.touchpad disable-while-typing false
```

This worked on my laptop; hope it helps.

---

### Post by mistcloud-misty on 2017-12-13
Thanks for your help! It worked.

I then installed a gnome-tweak-tool package to add the date to the toolbar and found the setting in there as well. Just adding this here in case anyone with the same problem finds this thread.

---

