---
title: "19.04 hangs before login screen"
date: 2019-04-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by evandrorcc on 2019-04-19
Hi everyone,
I'm having some issues with Ubuntu boot, more precisely before login screen, it's seems that gdm3 stops working or something. It's weird because the Ubuntu plymouth is set to lower resolution and a few seconds during the animation the screen goes black and changes to the screen where all modules are starting. It's probably related with nvidia drivers or something, since I own a GTX 1060. Can someone help me fix this problem so I can enjoy Disco Dingo too?

OBS¹: During **Installation Process **plymouth was ok, in good resolution, but I've noticed the following lines in black, before boot into installation:

```

Couldn't get size: 0x800000000000000e
MODSIGN: Couldn't get UEFI db list
Couldn't get size: 0x800000000000000e

```

OBS²: I was able to login normally when I've replaced GDM3 for LightDM when the system sends me to checklist modules (I'm able to use CTRL+ALT+F2) and do the process of replacement.

I have no idea of whats going on, but it's the first time I'm actually trying to use Linux in my Desktop and I simply can't. I'll let my system specs because that may help fix the problem.

**System Specs**
RAM: 8Gb.
CPU: Intel i7 4770.
GPU: NVIDIA 1060, using the latest driver 418.56.
Motherboard: Gigabyte B85M-D3PH.

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2019-04-20
Hi,
I&#7743; having a problem like this on my computer, which is why I read your post.
I see in this post that it is your first try of Linux on your desktop, which is unfortunate. You have probably a far better chance everything is running fine using an LTS version of Ubuntu or it's derivatives, such as 18.04, or 16.04. And: LTS-versions are maintained during 5 years, the intermediate versions such as 19.04 for only **9 months**
With these all my computers run OK, without a hitch (if there are hitches it's always the hardware).
So, sorry I can't help you here, except pointing you to the LTS-versions.

Success, I am looking further :)

Topsiho

---

