---
title: "11.10 Nautilus 3.2 bookmarks, WTF?"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-15
I cannot add bookmarks in Nautilus despite existing menu option and a shortcut. Ubuntu guys released Nautilus with a very obvious bug! Shame!

I have an extensive folder structure so Nautilus is pretty much unusable for me as I create bookmarks for all the frequently used folders such as for C++ projects, MATLAB projects, R projects, Downloads, etc. Now every time I open or save a file I have to navigate through the folder tree. 

I understand Dash looks like crap because it's still in the development, but releasing software with a glaring bug - I do not understand that. It's a shame.

---

### Post by gsmanners on 2011-10-15
Call me silly, but doesn't gtk handle bookmarks? I'm not really aware of all the Nautilus changes lately, so I may be wrong here, but if push comes to shove you can just use gtk bookmarks, right?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-10-15
Don't see this at all  -you can add as many bookmarks as you want
They show in the bookmarks dropdown & in nautilus' sidebar under Bookmarks
All of them are stored in ~/.gtk-bookmarks where you can also add to if desired
format as file:///path/to/name custom name if any

---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-15
I see the problem now, Nautilus starts looking more like File Explorer in Windows: custom bookmarks are under the Bookmarks, system bookmarks are under Computer, and I do not see how I can have all of them under the single tab (Computer or Bookmarks either way for me) just like they appear under the Bookmarks menu.

Is there a way I can move them from under the Computer into Bookmarks? e.g. Documents folder appears under Computer but I want it under Bookmarks. Or, can I create bookmarks under Computer?

Also, menu item and shortcut Add Bookmark does not work, only drug and drop works, which is ok but should not have been released this way.

Thanks for input.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-10-15
Never really looked at whether you could add/remove to Computer section  - it's either coded in the source or it uses some means to determine those default folders  

As far as adding bookmarks thru the dropdowm  - you have to be in the dir. you want to add.
(or you can manually edit .gtk-bookmarks as I mentioned

---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-15
Menu and shortcut do work, do not I feel stupid. Thank you.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-10-15
That actually got me once myself..

---

### Post by mwolfe on 2011-10-18
I'm confused how you got this to work.
Before I used to be able to take a folder and drag it over to the left bar and put it between other folders.. I see this doesn't work anymore as I can only drop it in another folder.
If I single click on a folder (select it) then go to the book mark menu, click "Add Bookmark"
it does absolutely nothing.. I've done this like 30 times on a bunch of different folders and none of them show up on the left.. Right now all I have in the left bar is a section that says "Computer" with Home, Destkop, Documents, Downloads, Music, Pictures, Videos, File System, and Trash under it.. Then I have another section that says "Network" and "Browse Network" below that..
There is no bookmarks section and no matter what I do i can't get anything to show up there.. I tried killall nautilus and nothing new showed up.. Where are these bookmarks? Nautilus was perfect for the past 2-3 years or so, not sure why they changed it..

---

### Post by mwolfe on 2011-10-18
Alright they are starting to show up. But really randomly. Trying both control+d and control+****+d and it doesn't work reliably. Selecting a folder and clicking add bookmark hasn't worked yet. Not sure why this is rocket science.

---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-18
I have three sections: Bookmarks (on top), then Computer (it has the same folders as you), then Network. 

I can only add my bookmarks to the Bookmarks section. If you do not have it then I do not know, maybe someone else can help.

Edit: as mc4man said you have to be in the folder to add that folder to Bookmarks using Ctrl-D.

---

### Post by mwolfe on 2011-10-18
Alright so now that I have the bookmarks section (finally showed up after playing around with trying to create a bookmark for awhile)..
Now I can drag folders over there like I used to.. However clicking control+D does not work and either does the Add Bookmark button in the toolbar.

---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-18
it works,

just open that folder that you want to make a bookmark to - so you see the content of that folder on the right pane, and while you are in there do Ctrl-D and - boom - bookmark added.

---

### Post by mwolfe on 2011-10-18
Thanks! Wow I feel dumb.. I see what happened now.. Since I was in my home folder and was selecting folders I wanted within that folder to be bookmarked, control+d did nothing.. Thought I needed to select the folder to bookmark. In the past I always just dragged them over to the bookmarks area, but since I didn't have that originally it didn't work. Anyways it works now and I feel like the biggest computer n00b to hit the planet.

---

### Post by vincegata on 2011-10-18
I did not think either that it was working until mc4man told me :)

---

### Post by anco on 2011-10-20
Thanks guys! you all should not feel dumb. This is extremely user unfriendly behavior.

This is not logic at all,since a few days I was pretty sure that it was bug behavior until I found this thread. Yes now it works like Ubuntu programmers thought it should work.... But not simple or obvious. For people who will not make every other day a bookmark they will forget how it was supposed to work. Simply dragging folders is much more logic.

Than the menu gives an option to edit the bookmarks... Well it shows also the names under "computer" but as soon as you start editing them they become default again... I thought in ubuntu things were meant to easily change to how you like it.

Anyway you guys are not dumb. This behavior in 11.10 is simply not obvious or clear to many users.

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-10-20
[http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/10/15-things-i-did-after-installing-new.html?m=1](http://www.techdrivein.com/2011/10/15-things-i-did-after-installing-new.html?m=1)

Scroll down to the Places quick list bit. You can get your bookmarks under the home folder icon.

I believe there might be a quick list gui editor coming in Precise.

---

### Post by vlab22 on 2011-11-10
> **mc4man said:**
> Never really looked at whether you could add/remove to Computer section  - it's either coded in the source or it uses some means to determine those default folders  

As far as adding bookmarks thru the dropdowm  - you have to be in the dir. you want to add.
(or you can manually edit .gtk-bookmarks as I mentioned


Thanks!!! Its work!

---

