---
title: "13.10 freezes at boot"
date: 2014-03-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bucsitomi on 2014-03-25
[SIZE=1]*Hello! First post here, came from the Hungarian community (ubuntu.hu) for qiucker help, here is my problem:*[/SIZE]

I installed lubuntu 13.10 from a DVD (downloaded the image and burned it myself). The installation was successful, however, when I switch on the computer and it starts to boot with the 
[CENTER]&#57599; [B]lubuntu
.    .    .    .    . [/B][/CENTER]
sign, it freezes. With the help of the Esc button, I found the last thing the computer does before freezing: ```
Stopping CPU interrupts balancing daemon                                                          [OK]
``` After that, nothing happens.

I hope someone will give me a solution/workaround. Thanks!
[SIZE=1][I]
About me: Bit-more-than beginner ubuntu user, installed lubuntu on my grandma's computer to replace Windows XP (you know, 8th of April 2014.......)[/I][/SIZE]

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2014-03-25
You need to provide some additional information.  
What kind of computer do you have?  What are the specs.  
After you downloaded the ISO, did you check the MD5Sum?
See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToMD5SUM)
When you burned the image to the CD did you burn it at the slowest possible speed?  (The slower you burn it, the better the odds are that you will get a good burn.)

---

### Post by bucsitomi on 2014-03-26
Specifications:
[LIST]
[*]AMD Athlon(tm) XP @ 1666 Mhz
[*]integrated graphics card
[*]700 Mb RAM
[*]Cache RAM 256K
[*]Current FSB freq. 133 Mhz
[*]Current DRam freq. 166 Mhz.
[/LIST]
Thats all information the BIOS could tell me.

Honestly, I didn't bother with md5sum, but I checked it now, it's correct.

I burned the image with the default settings of Brasero. Before the 3rd reinstall (I tried reinstalling a few times, hoping it would solve the problem), I used the built-in &#8222;Check disk for defects&#8221; option. It said the disc is good.

---

