---
title: "10.10 ~why is this showing in terminal??"
date: 2011-03-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KEE on 2011-03-12
what does this mean? its always showing up in terminal when it starts```
bash: /usr/share/GNUstep/Makefiles/filesystem.sh: No such file or directory
bash: /usr/share/GNUstep/Makefiles/print_unique_pathlist.sh: No such file or directory
bash: /usr/share/GNUstep/Makefiles/print_unique_pathlist.sh: No such file or directory
bash: /usr/share/GNUstep/Makefiles/print_unique_pathlist.sh: No such file or directory
bash: /usr/share/GNUstep/Makefiles/print_unique_pathlist.sh: No such file or directory
bash: /usr/share/GNUstep/Makefiles/print_unique_pathlist.sh: No such file or directory
*****@*****:~$ 
```

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-03-12
Try looking in your .profile, .bashrc or .bash_aliases and see if you have a reference to those files or references to scripts that might have reference to those files.

Did you install GNUStep to try some Objective-C development at some point?

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2011-03-12
never mind, didn't realize you were talking about the bash:

---

### Post by KEE on 2011-03-13
> **r-senior said:**
> Try looking in your .profile, .bashrc or .bash_aliases and see if you have a reference to those files or references to scripts that might have reference to those files.

Did you install GNUStep to try some Objective-C development at some point?
hmm i think so but i dont like this showing up in terminal. is there a way to undo?

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-03-13
It's a while since I tried installing GNUStep (and it wasn't long before I uninstalled it) but I recall having to add calls to GNU Makefile scripts in a startup file somewhere. Hence the suggestion to look in .profile and so on. Presumably you've uninstalled GNUStep, thereby removing the target scripts, but they are still called in your startup files somewhere and it is these calls to non-existent scripts that are producing the messages.

You just need to comment them out by starting the line with '#' and when you are happy that you haven't broken anything, remove those lines. I can't tell you exactly which file to look in because I think you would have added them manually.

The manual page for bash, in particular the section entitled "INVOCATION", may assist. It's probably in one of the following:

/etc/profile
~/.bash_login
~/.bashrc
~/.bash_profile
~/.profile
~/.bash_aliases

You may not have *all* of these files. Remember that files beginning '.' are hidden files and you need to enable these in Nautilus (ctrl-h) or list them in a terminal with 'ls -a'.

Another approach would be to search all the files in your home directory for "GNUStep" using Nautilus or 'find' from a terminal, then comment out the calls to the scripts as described above:

$ find -maxdepth 1 -exec grep 'GNUstep' {} \; -ls

---

