---
title: "How do i get 3d acceleration turned on?"
date: 2006-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DigitalDuality on 2006-12-02
glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: No

that's the current output i get so i take it i'm not running 3d acceleration.  

how can i turn this on?  i've tried searching and searching but have found nothing.  I have an nvidia fx 5500 so it should work right?

btw--using edgy kubuntu with beryl.

---

### Post by bg1256 on 2006-12-02
Do you have the proper drivers installed? If so, it should work automatically.

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-12-02
Did you install nvidia-glx yet? 
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx linux-restricted-modules-$(uname -r)
 sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

---

### Post by DigitalDuality on 2006-12-02
digduality@kubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx
Password:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
nvidia-glx is already the newest version.


digduality@kubuntu:~$ sudo nvidia-glx-config enable

Error: your X configuration has been altered.
This script cannot proceed automatically. If you believe that this
not correct, you can update the md5sum entry executing the following
command:
md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf | sudo tee /var/lib/x11/xorg.conf.md5sum
otherwise edit manually /etc/X11/xorg.conf to change the Driver section
from nv to nvidia.

this is my xorg.conf
> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#  Driver        "wacom"
#  Identifier    "stylus"
#  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
#  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
#  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
#EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#  Driver        "wacom"
#  Identifier    "eraser"
#  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
#  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
#  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
#EndSection

#Section "InputDevice"
#  Driver        "wacom"
#  Identifier    "cursor"
#  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
#  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
#  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
#EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"FX5500"
	#Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	#BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
        Option 		"RenderAccel" 		"true"
	Option 		"AllowGLXWithComposite" "true" 
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Envision EFT920"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-98
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"FX5500"
	#Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"Envision EFT920"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1600x1200" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	#InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	#InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	#InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


i should also note the following packages are installed:

linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-10-generic
linux-restricted-modules-common
linux-restricted-modules-generic

---

### Post by doc95ut on 2006-12-02
I am having the same problem.  Tried glxinfo - direct rendering = no.  I am running an sis 661fx onboard chip.  My xorg.conf file shows generic video card and generic monitor.  After reading carefully through the forums I have changed the driver in that file from "vesa" to "sis" .  This helps some with video issues but many remain.  Any help appreciated.  I am a noob - lots of Windows experience, very new at this.

---

### Post by DigitalDuality on 2006-12-02
any ideas?

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-12-02
DD, your problem isn't very clear, have you performed the given steps for the first time? Or have you done it before and it still isn't working?

If this is the first time you've done it, you'll have to restart X for the changes to apply, you may need to reboot though, considering the kernel additions.

---

### Post by DigitalDuality on 2006-12-02
what kernel needs to be added?   

the last post i gave i listed the linux-restricted modules that were installed and that nvidia-glx was and that i had attempted to enable it.

all to no avail. :(

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-12-02
I was just referring to the restricted-modules. Try rebooting. Do you have an onboard intel graphics card as well as the Nvidia?

---

### Post by Delkster on 2006-12-02
> **doc95ut said:**
> I am having the same problem.  Tried glxinfo - direct rendering = no.  I am running an sis 661fx onboard chip.  

Unfortunately there's currently no direct rendering support for the SiS 661. I wouldn't have high hopes about getting 3D acceleration working on the SiS chip. SiS has generally provided very little support for Linux or developers who write drivers for Linux.

---

### Post by DigitalDuality on 2006-12-02
yes i have both intel and nvidia, and i've rebooted and restarted X numerous times.

i'm not mistaken in the fact that the 686 restricted module does not need to be installed b/c of the generic restricted module being there, correct?

---

### Post by nalmeth on 2006-12-03
DD, for my PCI NVIDIA FX 550 card, I had to disable (blacklist) the onboard intel graphics card, which allowed me to use X in 2D, but prevented direct rendering.

The fix is here: [http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Nvidia_Intel_Integrated](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Nvidia_Intel_Integrated)

Perhaps thats the problem-o

---

### Post by DigitalDuality on 2006-12-03
thanks, went ahead and did that as well.  i guess i'm not going to see 3d rendering, but this will do.  thanks for all your help. :)

---

### Post by strabes on 2006-12-03
I believe this is a bug with beryl - when installed it shows direct rendering: no for some reason. it does the same for me.

---

### Post by tuxcantfly on 2006-12-03
Are you using beryl with XGL or AIGLX? If you're using XGL, you won't get direct rendering; switch to AIGLX

---

### Post by strabes on 2006-12-03
my card isn't supported by the radeon driver (ATI X1400) and therefore I cannot use AIGLX.

---

### Post by DigitalDuality on 2006-12-04
i honestly don't know if my card supports AIGLX (nvidia fx5500)

---

### Post by RAOF on 2006-12-04
1) Since you have Beryl working, you already have 3D acceleration working.  Beryl doesn't work without it!

2) What version of the nvidia-glx package do you have (you can find out with **aptitude show nvidia-glx** from a terminal)?  If it doesn't have the number "9629" in there somewhere, you're using XGL to run Beryl, and not having direct rendering is normal.

---

