---
title: "17.04 Frequent Freezing"
date: 2017-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-11-06
Dell 5150 laptop with Lubuntu 17.04.
System has been running well until recently when it developed frequent freezing.
Tried the REISUB approach without any response.

Need help on accessing the log files that might show the causes.
John

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-11-07
Some progress.
There is a wonderful range of assistance out there, just need to patiently do some digging.
 
Starting to get into the log files, and experimenting with REISUB and related activities to try and regain control.
But, results currently seem random and generally unsuccessful.
I need to analyse the keycodes read by the system from my keyboard.

The lock-ups are now so often that I will be reverting to my Windows XP machine for document handling, and Lubuntu only for email and web surfing.
Lock-ups have occurred when accessing a dialogue list on LibreWriter, draw commands on LibreCad, location selection on Firefox and YouTube operation.

No attempt to run any games or videos.
An absolutely standard single-boot Lubuntu installation with no 'special' installations (on old hardware).

John

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-11-13
A small clue may be that the rate of lock-ups has decreased with the dis-connection of the external monitor.
It still happens, but at a rate that is tolerable - until it is fixed.

The analysis of log files is difficult and confusing, so I cannot get a clear picture yet.
John

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-11-16
Got a freeze tonight.
Start, then email via Thunderbird, then Firefox - freeze when cursor moved on top of Bookmarks drop-down dialog.
No combination of keys would initiate any response.

All the logs I can find show no actual fault or warning at the time.

Need help to identify the correct log to examine, if it exists.

My searching reveals a long history of reported freezing (lock-ups) without any clear guide as to cures.
Should I just put up with it until the 18.04 release is available ?

John.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-11-21
Last freeze occurred at 07:15 on Monday 20Nov17.

Had just inserted a data USB and opened File Manager PCManFM to access a data file.

Decided to do nothing and observe system.
Exactly 15 minutes later the laptop powered down.
This was the first time I have ever seen auto-off in operation, normally I get a blank screensaver.

The log files that I can find:
                        
**Syslog.1**
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:14:39 bluebox kernel: [ 4088.190136] FAT-fs (sdb1): Volume was not properly unmounted. Some data may be corrupt. Please run fsck.[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:14:39 bluebox udisksd[1234]: Mounted /dev/sdb1 at /media/john/Transcend2 on behalf of uid 1000[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:40:31 bluebox rsyslogd: [origin software="rsyslogd" swVersion="8.16.0" x-pid="404" x-info="http://www.rsyslog.com"] start[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:40:31 bluebox rsyslogd: rsyslogd's groupid changed to 108[/SIZE]
 
 **kern.log**
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:14:38 bluebox kernel: [ 4087.476995] sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI removable disk[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:14:39 bluebox kernel: [ 4088.190136] FAT-fs (sdb1): Volume was not properly unmounted. Some data may be corrupt. Please run fsck.[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:40:31 bluebox kernel: [    0.000000] Linux version 4.10.0-38-generic (buildd@lgw01-amd64-059) (gcc version 6.3.0 20170406 (Ubuntu 6.3.0-12ubuntu2) ) #42-Ubuntu SMP Tue Oct 10 13:24:28 UTC 2017 (Ubuntu 4.10.0-38.42-generic 4.10.17)[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:40:31 bluebox kernel: [    0.000000] KERNEL supported cpus:[/SIZE]
 
 **auth.log**
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:14:41 bluebox pkexec: pam_unix(polkit-1:session): session opened for user root by (uid=1000)[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:14:41 bluebox pkexec[2052]: john: Executing command [USER=root] [TTY=unknown] [CWD=/] [COMMAND=/usr/sbin/xfpm-power-backlight-helper --set-brightness 7][/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:40:31 bluebox systemd-logind[470]: New seat seat0.[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Nov 20 07:40:32 bluebox systemd-logind[470]: Watching system buttons on /dev/input/event2 (Sleep Button)

The system seemed to boot up normally at 07:40.
Any suggestions on where to look for solid data that could point to the cause ?
John
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-11-21
> **electrosteam said:**
> Should I just put up with it until the 18.04 release is available ?


No, better to try a clean install (no upgrades) of Lubuntu 17.10. 
17.04 is out of support in january anyway.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-12-07
mörgæs,
Thanks for the suggestion, 17.10 will be installed 'soon'.

As the machine turned the power off 15 minutes after freezing, I thought that perhaps the kernel is still operating (cron ?), just display/keyboard/mouse not responding.

I wrote a short script that simply logged the date/time every 10 seconds, and waited.
Several days later got a freeze, recovered with power off/on, log shows as stopping exactly at the freeze time.
So, it looks like the kernel is also frozen - but absolutely nothing in the logs, a puzzle.

Then, yesterday it was hot and I got a freeze - perhaps it is a power supply shutdown.
This might explain the power off after 15 minutes if it was initiated by temperature monitoring.

I have now lifted the laptop off the glass table it was sitting on so that there is a (relatively) free flow of air around its base.

Along the way I discovered the tty1 environment by entering Ctrl+Alt+F1.
This appears different to the LXTerminal available in Lubuntu.
I will re-engage the date/time log by invoking with tty1 and see if that shows anything.

John.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-12-19
I have installed 17.10 without problems and it has operated fine for a few days.
But, just had a freeze while running VLC on a DVD.

My log file was started under tty1 immediately after booting and stopped at the time (+/- 1 min ) shown in the frozen screen display.

This is now a serious problem.

Any suggestions on how to investigate further ?

What tests and results would enable a coherent accurate bug report ?

John.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-12-20
Before reporting bugs I suggest that you do some observations trying to narrow down the problem. 

Which temperatures do you see before a freeze?
Does it happen both using single and double screen?
Can the system survive standing idle for the whole night without freezing? 
... and so on.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2017-12-20
I second the advice above.

I have been studying various threads (not just in this forum) about causes of freezes/lock ups with the aim of trying to write a forensics script to analyse log files to make more sense of them.
However I have learned through studying that some causes of freezes do not get as far as being posted in log files.
This makes the detective work much harder.

Temperature is one reported cause.  So I would log the temperature history leading up to freeze.
I have GKrellM System Monitor installed from Ubuntu Software Centre but there is also GKrellMD .. the server version.

[http://nst.sourceforge.net/nst/docs/faq/ch03s03.html](http://nst.sourceforge.net/nst/docs/faq/ch03s03.html)

Another reported cause is memory so I would run full memtest at bootup.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-12-20
Thanks for the responses.

I have had freezes occur within a minute of powering up after a couple of hours off, with only the mouse connected, so I think I can rule out the second monitor and temperature.

The system is powered down when not being used, but has stayed up all day during a high ambient day, 38 degrees C outside and no air conditioning (yes it was uncomfortable).

My simple log script is started in tty1 after Ctrl+F1 from the desktop (LXDE).
As shown in the examples posted earlier, the kernel log files (that I can find) show no warnings.

Investigations on how to run the script before LXDE boots up have so far not been successful - can that be done ?
Will dogged learning about GRUB2 succeed in this direction ?

The GKrellM System Monitor sounds interesting, I will follow that up.

System is now stable enough to get work done, with frequent saves.

John

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2017-12-20
If REISUB fails to get a response, then the kernel was taken completely by surprise - nothing is likely to be logged. This kind of intermittent, repeating total-kernel-failure often points to hardware failure instead of a bug.

I suggest eliminating hardware causes: MEMTEST your RAM, SMART test your disk(s). You obviously cannot swap out the power supply on a laptop, but if you happen to have a spare power brick now it the time to swap it out.

---

### Post by VMC on 2017-12-20
I see the Dell 5150 has integrated Intel chip. Have you tried installing intel driver? I have nvidia, and using default nouveau driverwill freeze unless I change things. If I install nvidia proprietary it doesn't freeze.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-12-21
At the command line:
~$ lspci
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200 64M] (rev a1)

Did a memory test:
Selected on the boot menu.
Memtest86 5.01
40 minutes, 1 Pass 0 errors.

Did a SMART test, after installing with Synaptic:
~$ sudo smartctl --test=long /dev/sda
 also 40 minutes.

Checked the log:
~$ sudo smartctl -l selftest /dev/sda
Extended offline Completed without error.

All of the above is rather new to me, so there could be errors and misunderstandings.
John.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-12-22
Please post the output from ```
lshw -C video
``` in CODE tags.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-12-22
mörgæs,

Too late, already upgraded to 17.10 ( Lubuntu ).
I cannot see any differences from 17.04 to 17.10, but the frequency of freezes *MAY *have reduced ( but still does occur ).
Got a warning when commanded without 'sudo', but the details with/without sudo seem the same.

```

john@bluebox:~$ sudo lshw -C video
[sudo] password for john: 
  *-display                 
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: NV34M [GeForce FX Go5200 64M]
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm agp agp-3.0 vga_controller bus_master vga_palette cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=nouveau latency=32 maxlatency=1 mingnt=5
       resources: irq:20 memory:fc000000-fcffffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff memory:c0000-dffff

```

Hope this helps.
John

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-12-22
The 17.10 warning is mostly relevant to new hardware. The big mistake is that UEFI can be controlled from the operative system (part of Microsofts attempt to let Windows own the pc platform). It should be the other way around: BIOS controlling the operative system. With our old hardware there is no problem using 17.10.

The output shows that you use the Nouveau driver. Have you seen if any Nvidia drivers are available? Look for Additional Drivers in the Update Manager (or some names similar to these).

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2017-12-23
Used Synaptic Package Manager to install the latest Nvidia driver listed (384).
Re-booted.
Got a freeze within 5 minutes.

Noted that Lubuntu default wallpaper has faint linear artifacts, not present on any application window.
Second monitor has disappeared.
Text entry is a bit slower and scrolling with mouse has slight horizontal window edges cascading down.

In the new year I think I will back up my home folder, get a new Lubuntu 17.10 32 bit image, clean the hard drive and do a clean install.
There are only a couple of open source applications installed.

As I write this, system has been on for 20 minutes.

John

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2017-12-24
Good, please keep us posted with the results.

---

### Post by rbmorse on 2017-12-24
Also, if you get a chance, try Memtest again, but let it run overnight. Sometimes one pass isn't enough to trap intermittent errors.

---

### Post by electrosteam on 2018-02-04
Marked as 'Solved' because I have not had a freeze for many weeks.
The only changes have been all the suggested package updates.
Somewhere in the updating must have been the solution to the problem.
Thanks for all the help,
John.

---

