---
title: "9.10 MSI Wind U100 Suspend - Hibernate issue"
date: 2009-10-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andw on 2009-10-06
Is anyone else having an issue with 9.10 and suspend or hibernate on the MSI Wind (U100)?
When I try either, it disconnects wifi (pop up on screen tells me), but does not suspend or hibernate.
After about 30sec to 1 minute it reconnects wifi, and continues as per normal.
Suspend and Hibernate worked fine under 9.04, and I have done a clean install.

---

### Post by lupus78 on 2009-10-12
Yes, i have the same issue with Ubuntu 9.10 and MSI Wind U100!

---

### Post by andw on 2009-10-12
Since the kernel update to 2.6.31-13-generic a few days ago, my suspend and hibernate have been working perfectly.
If you haven't already, try running the Update Manager (System - Administration).
Hopefully works for you too.

edit - also, before you update....
There is another bug that seems to be with adjusting the display brightness, that causes the screen to flash brighter darker.
Under the older kernel (before the update), it would flash the screen after boot up until I wound the brightness right down and then back up again.
Since the update, it starts flashing the backlight after boot up and does not stop.

The only work around I have found is to set the brightness in System-Preferences-Power Management to the lowest setting (also turned off all the 'dim display' and 'reduce backlight' options.
Then it does not flash after booting up, but if you try and adjust the brightness it will start the backlight flashing again.

I have reported it as a bug [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/447764](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/447764)
You could click on 'This bug affects me too' if it also happens for you, so maybe it will get fixed sooner.

---

### Post by itsdarklikehell on 2009-10-21
thnx my fellow ubuntu users who also wouldnt wait for a beta.. :P
both of these bugs affect me to, i hope the full beta will fix this, or esle i have to fix it myself with my lack of unix knowlegde

ps, is there a launchad bug report for the [B]suspend/hybernate issue?
[/B]

---

### Post by andw on 2009-10-22
> **itsdarklikehell said:**
> thnx my fellow ubuntu users who also wouldnt wait for a beta.. :P
both of these bugs affect me to, i hope the full beta will fix this, or esle i have to fix it myself with my lack of unix knowlegde

ps, is there a launchad bug report for the [B]suspend/hybernate issue?
[/B]

Yes there is/was, and it has been fixed in the updates.
Just run System-Administration-Update Manager

---

### Post by aimwin on 2009-10-22
My msi u100plus, Model no. MS-N011

I hope I am in the same boat with all of you.

I install 9.10beta and found problems, no hybernation and suspend.

More important it has problems that the power management can't dim the LCD back light.

And when I use Fn+F5 the icon-bar shows up and it keep blinking as if you press Fn+F5 100+ times.

It will keep going even after successful reboot, it came up and still blinking.

On the first partition , I have Kbuntu beta NetbookRemix installed.

It works fine, no the problems as I explain above.
Except the power management could not dim the LCD panel either.

So you have to use Fn+F5 to brighten or dim by manual.

I did all the update using update manager. But the problems of 100+ times blinking of the display Icon-Bar were still there.

Finally I installed 9.04 and found 100%perfect on everything.
My son delete the window Xp that come with the msi u100.

So I cannot test it under window.

Anyway I will try to install 9.10 beta again.

---

### Post by andw on 2009-10-23
The blinking is still an issue, and seems to stop if you click on the "Main Menu" (Start?) button on the task panel.

---

### Post by itsdarklikehell on 2009-10-27
note: to stop the flashy blinking of your backlight you can push the MAIN MENU applet on your panel (not the GO HOME applet ive been pushing..), so u need it to be installed and put onto you panel, then click it... else it wont stop blinking until your batteries run dry.. 

lets squish this annoying bug...

---

### Post by aimwin on 2009-10-28
So We can confirm that it is a bug in 9.10

Has anyone report to the developers?

---

### Post by andw on 2009-10-29
> **aimwin said:**
> So We can confirm that it is a bug in 9.10

Has anyone report to the developers?

See post #5 above

---

### Post by Cigaras on 2009-10-29
Hi, I have installed Ubuntu 9.10 LTS few hours ago on my MSI Wind U100. This bug works on Live CD mode too. And the thing that I spotted is that when you press FN+F4 (lower brightness button) it just lowers your brightness without activating this bug. Bug activates only when you press FN+F5 (higher brightness combination button) and on system startup.

[[SIZE=1]P.S. How to remove that thing "       Nominated       for       Hardy       by       Cigar " ?     [/SIZE]]("http://https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/447764")

---

### Post by RookieUbuntuUser58 on 2009-10-31
Yeah having the same screen brightness problems with my MSI Wind. Love the increase in battery life but not at the expense of this problem. It gets really annoying.

---

### Post by m1ch13l on 2009-10-31
I recognize the same issues on my MSI WIND U100: No suspend,  not hibernate, no sleep.

As described earlier WIFI goes down for less then a minute, but HD keeps running, screen stays on, WIFI and Bluetooth stay powered. Very strange.

An update did not help, I have the official 9.10 remix release with kernel linux-headers-2.6.31-14-generic (installed version 2.6.31-14.48 )

Who can help to solve this issue? Also would be nice if lid switch and the Fn+F12 keyboad shortcut would work!

Best regards,

M1ch13l

---

### Post by aimwin on 2009-10-31
> **andw said:**
> Yes there is/was, and it has been fixed in the updates.
Just run System-Administration-Update Manager

I have reinstalled 9.04 on the MSI Wind U100 since there is not problems.

Today I update to 9.10 using Update Manager.

Guess ,,, it is flashing again, the "LCD Brighter icon"

How to fix it?

---

### Post by aimwin on 2009-10-31
It is out of this thread but I would like to ask opinion from friends, should we start new thread on the following issue.

My son has test it how long the battery would last?

Ubuntu will last less than 4 or sometimes a bit more than 4.

But on Window XP that we have deleted, it last 7 hours odds, my son told me.
He deleted the license XP already, so I could not verify it now.

But he said he tested it a few times.

Should we report this as a bug or as a what???

Or it is not valid at all, because I did not set the right option on the power management or what else??

Thanks you all in Advance.

---

### Post by andw on 2009-11-01
I have found that sometimes when I boot, the USB ports do not work (not to mention the webcam never working).
However, when the usb ports don't work, neither does suspend or hibernate.
If I reboot, usually it works again, but the problem seems to be occcuring on maybe 1 in 4 boots.
I have seen the USB issue has been reported as a bug, perhaps related.....

On the brightness flashing issue....
If you go into "System-Preferences-Power Management" and set all the brightness levels to '0', this will stop the flashing at boot up.
You can then add the "Brightness Applet" to the panel and use it to adjust brightness, as the system does not flash when changing with this.

Not really a good fix, but a workaround.....
(bad bug)

---

### Post by aimwin on 2009-11-01
> **andw said:**
> I have found that sometimes when I boot, the USB ports do not work (not to mention the webcam never working).
However, when the usb ports don't work, neither does suspend or hibernate.
If I reboot, usually it works again, but the problem seems to be occcuring on maybe 1 in 4 boots.
I have seen the USB issue has been reported as a bug, perhaps related.....

On the brightness flashing issue....
If you go into "System-Preferences-Power Management" and set all the brightness levels to '0', this will stop the flashing at boot up.
You can then add the "Brightness Applet" to the panel and use it to adjust brightness, as the system does not flash when changing with this.

Not really a good fix, but a workaround.....
(bad bug)

Thank you very much.

By the way I got 5.8 GB for my swap file partition.

Yes every thing, works as you post, both good and "still" bad one.

1. the Brightness Applet issue with that LCD brightness blinking 
2. Hibernation and Suspend work well, for the time being???.

the ooppse 1st ok, 2nd fail -- reboot to start flesh boot by itself.

Suspend 4 times no problems.

Well it is an issue for 100% hibernation still not there yet.

---

### Post by Cigaras on 2009-11-01
Disable USB Web Cam before booting Ubuntu (FN+F6) and hibernation and USB ports will work.

---

