---
title: "noob....update sent me to busy box"
date: 2008-09-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MopMonkee on 2008-09-02
**Scenario**:
Been using Ubuntu (8.04) for about 4  months and have loved it. So much so i bought a new hard drive to start fresh purging myself from windows and dual partitioned messiness. This has worked fine the last 3 months. Unfortunately the other day after updating i was sent to BusyBox. After a little research and alot of stumbling  in the dark i have found that this seems to snag alot of noobs like myself. I have tried to follow the advice given to others but to no avail. I either have a unique problem or I am overlooking some sort of step.

**Hardware**:
2 Hard-drives(IDE)
250gig - holds Ubuntu and programs
300gig - holds long term data (music, pictures ect.)
Hard Drives work separately from each other and have had no issues there.

Radion x800 graphics card
2gigs of ram  

**What I have attempted**:

1. I've read that most people in my situation had something go wrong with a kernel update and are encouraged to press 'esc' on booting and go into an older kernel.

When I do this I only see -
kernel 2.6.24-19-generic
kernel 2.6.24-19 (recovery mode)
Ubuntu 8.04.1,memtest86+

(so no older kernel:( )
I ran the memory test for a day and a half (A huge waste of time on a test that never seems to end)

When entering recovery mode I get a long list of stuff printed on the screen. Half of which I can't see or scroll up too. The jist of what i am seeing is ***No such file or directory***.
Served with a topping of ***Target filesystem doesn't have /sbin/init***
 
So back to the posts I go.
I find an article talking about booting Ubuntu from a liveCD. (It takes me a day to realize that this is the cd I made from the ISO on the ubuntu website). Hence my limited computer use.

I find another posting that has me typing into terminal (in liveCD mode)
the following

sudo fdisk-l (this prints out stats of my computer and I assume I'm looking to see what my hard drive s labled as)

then article tells me to type in -
sudo mount /dev/{the label of my hd} /mnt
Sudo chroot /mnt
ect ect,

problem is when i execute the sudo mount command i get the message -
***mount:/dev/sdb already mounted or -mnt busy***

**Analysis**:
Lost. Helpless. 

**Would like**:
The use of my computer back with all my settings.
Can anyone help

Thanks

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-09-02
What's likely happened is that the [UUID](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uuid) for your root file system has changed, and you need to update your **/etc/fstab** file. You attempted to mount /dev/sdb - which is the device node for the entire drive - and not sdb1, sdb2, sdb*n*, which are the partitions of that drive.

```
$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x4c656c9e

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1         637     5116671    b  W95 FAT32
/dev/sda2   *         638        2549    15358140    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)
**/dev/sda3            2550        4373    14651280   83  Linux**
/dev/sda4            4374       14593    82092150    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            4374        5589     9767488+  83  Linux
/dev/sda6            5590        5771     1461883+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda7            5772       14593    70862683+  83  Linux
```
Your output will differ. Find your root partition and mount it as you tried earlier (not just /dev/sda, but /dev/sda**3**). You don't need to mount it specifically to /mnt (any directory will do), nor should you need to do the chroot command for this problem.

The file you're interested in is, again, /etc/fstab. It'll look something like this.
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for **/dev/sda3** :
**UUID=e900fd0f-a313-41d1-8e26-796933c430a4** / ext3 noatime,data=writeback,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=bd8570c4-c951-4089-b21e-08673d65c7ca /home ext3 noatime,data=writeback 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=c8e7a3ae-55be-4022-b215-0d948aaa8fc5 /main ext3 noatime,data=writeback 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sdc1 :
UUID=B4C5-86C1 /media/voyager vfat utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=90022a19-8acd-4f9b-bee9-e494f742bb8a /misc ext3 noatime,data=writeback 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=00B7-479F /windows vfat utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=0eceaa3c-98c5-4e1b-a90b-608e7dbdb584 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
```
As you see (though the columns are hard to differentiate between), the mount point / (root) is defined by the UUID for /dev/sda3. If this UUID at some point changes (which is rare but happens), it won't know where the root partition is. So you either need to replace those old UUID entries with the new ones, or you could replace the entry with the [device node](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Device_node) (/dev/sda3).
```
# Entry for **/dev/sda3** :
**/dev/sda3** / ext3 noatime,data=writeback,errors=remount-ro 0 1
```
If you still want it defined by its UUID, enter this in a terminal to list the UUIDs of all detected filesystems.
```
$ sudo blkid
```
Then open up fstab in a text editor with superuser permissions (**kdesu kate /etc/fstab** for kde, **gksu gedit /etc/fstab** for gnome, **gksu mousepad /etc/fstab** for xfce, **sudo nano /etc/fstab** for ye olde terminale emulatore) and start copy/pasting.

Whether you use the UUID or the device node generally doesn't matter. People sometimes get UUID changes like you did - in which case using the device node would be better - while at the same time some controller cards have the habit of confusing the "order" of drives. So sometimes sda might become sdb on the next boot. Obviously, UUIDs would suit such a setup better.

---

### Post by MopMonkee on 2008-09-02
thank you for your help! But i'm still having difficulties.

This is what i've tried:

[I]ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 300.0 GB, 300069052416 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 36481 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x076adc61

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1       36481   293033601    7  HPFS/NTFS

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0004529d

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
**/dev/sdb1   *           1       29644   238115398+  83  Linux**
/dev/sdb2           29645       30401     6080602+   5  Extended
/dev/sdb5           29645       30401     6080571   82  Linux swap / Solaris[/I]


[I]ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdb1
mount: can't find /dev/sdb1 in /etc/fstab or /etc/mtab
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdb1,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
[/I]


Am I mounting wrong?

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-09-03
```
$ df -Th | grep sdb1
```
The second column should indicate what filesystem /dev/sdb1 has. It's likely ext3.
```
$ sudo fsck -fv /dev/sdb1
```
That should check the filesystem for errors. May take a while. (I don't think the root filesystem *can* be FAT/FAT32? But in the rare case I'm wrong [hwrrr!], omit the **f** in -fv.)
```
$ sudo mount -t *<filesystem>* /dev/sdb1 /mnt
```
Replace *<filesystem>* with what we divined from the first command.

If there are any new errors output, paste them here.

I was unclear in the first post when I said that the filesystem needn't be mounted to /mnt; what I meant was that it *does* need to be mounted, but not specifically to /mnt. Any directory will do. Post is now edited to reflect this.

---

### Post by MopMonkee on 2008-09-04
Thank you Zorael!!!

My computer seems to be back to normal.

If anyone else is reading this thread I hope write a summary of what Zorael helped me with within the next week so your not trying to decipherer our back and forth.

Thanks Again Zoreal

---

