---
title: "10.04 cd not acting like live cd"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cloud3737 on 2010-04-30
The iso file I downloaded passed the md5sum check. However, the cd I burned from it seems to bypass the usual Ubuntu menu where you get to choose what you want to do (run the live cd without changing your computer, check the cd for errors, install, etc) and it attempts to install itself!! The installation process halts when some sort of error is encountered. I find this very scary.

---

### Post by Calash on 2010-04-30
To the first part of your question the way the LiveCD works has changed a bit.  The option to test it comes after you select your language.  It does look more like it is installing without permission but the next screen will have a button to try before the install.

Not too happy with the change myself.  Seems to cause more confusion than it is trying to solve.

What is the error you are getting?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2010-04-30
was it the live cd or the alternate cd?

---

### Post by cloud3737 on 2010-04-30
Man, thanks for answering that -- I did NOT want to overwrite my present OS ... I simply wanted to try the live CD. I'm not sure what the error was, and I'm not sure whether I want to try this thing again in order to find out. It certainly was accessing my hard drive a lot for a couple minutes. Are you sure it's not destroying or modifying any preexisting data??

---

### Post by cloud3737 on 2010-04-30
The iso file was ubuntu-10.04-desktop-i386.iso. This isn't the "alternate" one, is it?

---

### Post by Calash on 2010-04-30
Pretty sure.  Check this link for pictures of what it should be looking like


[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/03/ubuntu-1004-live-cd-installer-gets.html](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2010/03/ubuntu-1004-live-cd-installer-gets.html)

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-04-30
> **cloud3737 said:**
> The iso file I downloaded passed the md5sum check. However, the cd I burned from it seems to bypass the usual Ubuntu menu where you get to choose what you want to do (run the live cd without changing your computer, check the cd for errors, install, etc) and it attempts to install itself!! The installation process halts when some sort of error is encountered. I find this very scary.

From the release notes.

> Boot options hidden by default on Desktop and Netbook CDs

The Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Desktop and Netbook CDs feature a new boot interface that is noninteractive by default. To configure advanced boot options, press any key at the first boot screen.

---

