---
title: "X1600 HH 8.04 compiz - max effects for minimum hassle"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tattrat on 2008-04-26
I have a ati x1600. Can anyone please advise on the minimum/optimum installations required to get the best compromise between reliability and effects?

Is every thing installed by default?

Am I best off with proprietary drivers, or the Ubuntu ones?

Which repositories contain the stable(est)versions as I want to avoid the bleeding edge?

Any tips advice, gratefully appreciated.

Brendan:KS

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-04-26
I'm far from the resident ATI wiz (I'm more of an Nvidia guy), but I think you want to get the proprietary drivers, either via Restricted Drivers or envyNG from the repositories.

As for stability, I suggest you stay with the Compiz in the official repositories, at least for the time being. I've found it to be rock stable with only a bug here and there (Scale plugin toggling, for one), hopefully to be fixed in the near future.

Ubuntu (as opposed to Kubuntu and perhaps Xubuntu) has Compiz installed by default, yes. You can enable it in the Advanced Desktop Effects app somewhere in the panel menus, but I suggest you grab the **compizconfig-settings-manager** package and use it, instead. Just run 'ccsm' from a run box, or a terminal.


Regardless of whether your preference is Gnome, KDE, Xfce or whatever else, enter this to install the Feisty emerald-themes package.
```
$ wget http://mirrors.kernel.org/ubuntu/pool/universe/e/emerald-themes/emerald-themes_0.2.1-0ubuntu1_all.deb .
$ sudo dpkg -i emerald-themes*
```
Should hopefully work. Else just grab it from [http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty/emerald-themes](http://packages.ubuntu.com/feisty/emerald-themes).



You'll need to grab Compiz manually if you have [color=DeepSkyBlue]**k**[/color]ookies (xookies?).
```
$ sudo aptitude install compiz compiz-kde compiz-gnome- compizconfig-settings-manager emerald
```
It may complain about compiz-gnome being part of compiz and compiz-gnome isn't to be installed, and recommend that you install it - in which case, do so. Then just remove it afterwards.
```
$ sudo aptitude purge compiz-gnome
```
This will break the compiz metapackage, but that's of no concern. If not KDE, omit the compiz-kde package.

---

### Post by tattrat on 2008-04-26
Thanks for the tips, I shall give it a go later today, and report back.

---

