---
title: "Ubu 16.04 only boots to emergency mode"
date: 2017-12-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jamesisin on 2017-12-21
Minidlna's log file filled slash.  I deleted the file and rebooted (as I have in the past when this has happened).  No matter what I've tried Ubuntu refuses to boot beyond this emergency console.

The log file journalctl offers is of no apparent assistance.  I have tried fsck, boot-repair, and running a file system check from the grub recovery option.  No change.

Stumped.

A little help?

I pulled the drive and mounted it from this laptop and was able to navigate about.  From the emergency console I can navigate around the drive (ls, cd, &c).  The drive seems to be fine.  This looks like an Ubuntu issue.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2017-12-22
I ran all of the options in Recovery.  That did nothing.  So I booted to emergency again and edited fstab to comment out all of my additions (two network mounts).  Booted fine.  Rebooted clean and then uncommented my fstab entries.  Looks fine again.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2018-04-08
So... now every time I reboot it boots into recovery mode.  Then I have to comment out my USB fstab entry.  Then it boots normally.  Then I can uncomment my USB fstab entry and reboot and it boots correctly.  Very annoying (and very confusing).

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-04-09
I have this in my notes.

 Systemd mount issues:
LABEL="test"  /mnt/test  ext4  defaults,nofail,x-systemd.device-timeout=4  0  2
if you have not set its mount as "nofail" in the mount options in fstab, systemd blocks boot process after a minute and a half of timeout.
If you did set the "nofail" it will just complain that it can't mount it. 

But part of issue is now Ubuntu may boot faster than full link to network is working.
I seen but did not save a link on threads where users added a script to mount partitions at end of boot process.

 I use NFS to mount some external partitions, but occassionly.
It was suggested I should really use Autofs.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Autofs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Autofs)

---

