---
title: "New 18.04 LTS Install - Login password usually not accepted"
date: 2018-12-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vector3 on 2018-12-31
[FONT=comic sans ms]This has happened repeatedly and I consider myself fortunate I was able to load the desktop moments ago.  I wrote the password down yet, remember it.  It has not been accepted more than it has worked.  I am at the point where I think it is best to file a bug report to get this issued covered. The installation occurred without issue.  Please advise.[/FONT]

---

### Post by Autodave on 2018-12-31
You may want to try hitting the backspace key a few times before you enter your password.

---

### Post by clementc on 2018-12-31
Hi vector3,

Autodave's advice can definitely help you resolve this issue. Alternatively, can you please try typing your password with a different keyboard and report back if this has helped at all? I am thinking maybe faulty hardware.

You could also try typing your password multiple times in Text Editor now that you have access to your desktop and check if all keys print fine. Intermittent issues are the hardest to diagnose.

---

### Post by vector3 on 2018-12-31
[FONT=comic sans ms]I can verify this undesirable behavior has occurred with both the built-in laptop keyboard and the (usually primary) external usb keyboard.  I will try the backspace trick.  This is one I have never heard of  I have been extremely deliberate when typing the password and it this has still prevented me from being able to log into the computer.  This seems to be very unusual behavior.[/FONT]

---

