---
title: "10.04 no printing"
date: 2010-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by karmicgaz on 2010-08-07
Epson stylus d88 recognised by 10.04 no tests or maintenance available in local host and obviously not printing. It's like it's there but they cannot talk to each other! Help!

---

### Post by volaer on 2010-08-07
HP Deskjet D1660, recognized by my laptop... but not printing... please help!!!!

---

### Post by choochoousmc on 2010-08-07
well I'm not sure what your problem is, but here is what mine was.
I have 10.04, on a laptop. and a linksys router.
When ever I have a power outage or have to unplug the router or my wireless IP antenna
Ubuntu and the printer normally fail to communicate when back on again.
Ubuntu appears to not actively rescan the connection.
Pull up the IP settings on your printer (if wireless). mine is 192.168.1.101
for example. Most times the .101 has changed to 102,  103,  or 104
Now under system, administration  select printing. A printer icon window will appear.
right click the icon.
Open the properties dialog.  The IP address in there must read the same as on the printer.
In properties it is listed twice.  make sure you change it on both lines.
One is location  other is device url.
Normally you only have to reset the last three numbers and leave everything else as is.

Hope this helps

---

### Post by karmicgaz on 2010-08-08
Ok, not sure why it's fixed now but after I enabled everything again and did a restart (windows trained!) it works now!

---

