---
title: "Dual boot problem - get blank screen when choosing XP"
date: 2007-03-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ArthurOrton on 2007-03-20
That's basically the problem. I choose XP, and then nothing, just a blank screen. No hard-drive-is-doing-something noises, no beeps, just a blank screen. And it worked fine yesterday, and I havent changed or installed anything, etc etc. :confused:

---

### Post by Repabil on 2007-03-20
Could you please run the following command in a terminal and paste it in this thread:
```
cat /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

---

### Post by twikletoes on 2007-03-20
What type of hard drive do you have?

---

### Post by rickombs107 on 2007-03-28
Hey folks,

I'm getting the same problem myself. I'm running Fedora core 6 but I haven't found any forums that seem all too helpful.

using grub to boot either linux of XP
If I boot XP I can interupt the boot using their system config and that util works fine
I ran that command that Repabil asked for and got this:

root@154 ~]# cat /boot/grub/menu.lst
# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.
#          root (hd0,0)
#          kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00
#          initrd /initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/sda
default=0
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd0,0)/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora Core (2.6.20-1.2933.fc6xen)
        root (hd0,0)
        kernel /xen.gz-2.6.20-1.2933.fc6
        module /vmlinuz-2.6.20-1.2933.fc6xen ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00 rhgb quiet
        module /initrd-2.6.20-1.2933.fc6xen.img
title Fedora Core (2.6.18-1.2798.fc6xen)
        root (hd0,0)
        kernel /xen.gz-2.6.18-1.2798.fc6 
        module /vmlinuz-2.6.18-1.2798.fc6xen ro root=/dev/VolGroup00/LogVol00 rhgb quiet
        module /initrd-2.6.18-1.2798.fc6xen.img
title Other
        rootnoverify (hd0,1)
        chainloader +1


I've got 1 diskdrive with a windows partion and linux's


thanks for whateveer help you can give.

---

### Post by Repabil on 2007-03-28
What happens if you try replacing:
> **rickombs107 said:**
> 
title Other
        rootnoverify (hd0,1)
        chainloader +1
With:
> title Other
        rootnoverify    (hd0,1)
        savedefault
        makeactive
        chainloader     +1

---

### Post by rickombs107 on 2007-03-28
I've been trying to troubleshoot this with my dad for a while now, he's been a network/sys admin long than I've been alive and is usually much help.

We've tried booting XP with several different combinations of commands(including your suggested one) all to no avail. He believes loading with the XP cd and running fixboot or fixmbr but I'm fairly certain my cd isn't here.  

So,  if there are any other suggestions asides from the XP cd tools I'm more than willing to hear them out.

---

### Post by Repabil on 2007-03-29
What is your disk setup?

---

### Post by rickombs107 on 2007-03-29
Problem solved.

I finally went ahead and ran the XP recovery with fixboot (which didn't help) and fixmbr which did some funky things (i had a boot option for windows XP which wasn't real and an added boot option of "?" which loaded XP) but did make it possible to get in and fix stuff.  

I then deletted the linux partition and repartitioned the free diskspace using Acronis's disk director suit and left it unformatted (since I was rushing before work and wasn't sure which type Fedora liked best)   

I reinstalled the OS aiming it at the new partition (originally I allowed the install to use the free diskspace on the drive which I believe it may have stolen the space used by XP's boot drive)


I'm not up and running on both Linux and XP however I'm using Acronis's boot manager so I can post on whether Grub works this time around. 

Thanks for all the help here. Maybe since the forums here were more helpful and the Fedora itself may have caused my problem I should look into Ubunto. But I've worked with Red Hat before and had no problems so I decided to stick with their name.

Thanks again, hope this helps for anyone else in the future.

---

