---
title: "8.04lts or 10.04lts ???????"
date: 2010-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by atgreen1 on 2010-11-01
hi i have a dell A90 running ubuntu 8.04 lts do i really need to up grade to 10.04 lts ? every one has different ideas on the subject. what do you guys think?   thanks guys i need your oppinion on this one.

---

### Post by cavalier911 on 2010-11-01
Unless there is newer software or hardware that requires 10.04 why bother? Whatever you choose don't burn your bridge back to what you know works.Remember to do partition backups of your current system with partimage or something similar.As we all know nothing will break your system faster than an upgrade.

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2010-11-01
+1
If it was me and 8.04 was working and doing what I wanted I'd stay with it.

---

### Post by jmszr on 2010-11-01
atgreen1,

I just updated from 8.04.4 to 10.04.1 this past weekend. With end-of-life approaching (April 2011), and 8.04 getting somewhat long-in-the-tooth and fraying around the edges, it seemed to be time. I copied the 8.04 /home to a new hard drive and then installed 10.04 to that - I still have 8.04 on the old hard drive just in case, but I will be wiping that HDD when I'm sure 10.04 is working properly. Just be sure to back up your /home (at least) and I also used Umarks: [[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/13153/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/13153/) as part of my update strategy. Umarks is a great help in updating.

Personally, I would not perform an upgrade from 8.04 > 10.04, there have been to many changes (Grub2 and ext4 for starters) for an upgrade to be satisfactory, imho.

Hope that helps.

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2010-11-01
Release 10.04 was a nightmare for me with my Intel based Dell & Compaq computers.

As you are running an LTS, I guess you value stability over a desire for new features & applications. And since 8.04 presumably runs well on your hardware, you should stick with it, as there is no reason why is will not continue to give you good service.

If you fancy running updated applications, it would be better to go to 10.10 as this seems to be a less troublesome release than 10.04.

---

### Post by maxsideburn on 2010-11-01
yes, update it.

8.04 seems neanderthal compared to 10.04
any minor issues are usually easy to work out

---

### Post by t0p on 2010-11-01
Another yes vote on upgrade to 10.04.

I used 8.04 on one of my computers for 2 years and, like you, I wondered whether or not to upgrade to the new LTS.  8.04 was working okay, so why bother, right?

But I was kinda sick of the old versions of software; and what's life if you take all the adventure* out of it?  So, I backed up my home directory then installed 10.04.  If it turned out to be a mistake I could just reinstall 8.04, right?

As it turns out, the upgrade was a good move.  10.04 detects all my hardware without any problems, the newer versions of software are so much better, and I think that ext4 is much nicer than ext3.

Of course, this is all IMHO.  YMMV.  Just make sure you back up all your precious data before you take the plunge.

[* **Note:** Yeah, I know I must have a pretty sad life if I describe upgrading an OS as an "adventure".  What can I say?  I don't get out much...]

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-01
Hi

8.04 is pretty old now. I would upgrade, but if you are really worried about it clone your current hard drive so you have a fall back position. Upgrading as opposed to a fresh install can cause problems (along with a fresh install), however i can say i have not had any issues since my upgrade 10.04 (I like the LTS as my main boot and upgrades in a VM).

Just check the minimum specs!

Kind regards

---

### Post by mr_luksom on 2010-11-01
Apart from 'it's old', is there any other reasons you would upgrade?

Security updates in kernel maybe? What features would be different?

I'm not sure you'd update just because it's getting old - but maybe there are better reasons.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-01
Hi

Because its not going to be supported for much longer. Security, new features, new hardware support etc. Why does anybody upgrade?

Kind regards.

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2010-11-01
to solve a few of the questions/myths in this forum I have some answers for you.

no, you do not have to switch to the ext4 filesystem just because you switched to 10.04. although it is better and faster it is still just another option (you can still install ext I think from the installer)

likewise you do not need to switch to [GRUB2]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2") if you are upgrading rather than installing.
"GRUB 2 is installed by default on new installations of Ubuntu 10.04 .  Releases such as Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty Jackalope which are upgraded to 9.10  will retain GRUB unless the user elects to upgrade to GRUB 2. Previous  releases of Ubuntu can be upgraded to GRUB 2 if the user desires."

A major reason that old versions of Ubuntu become end of life is because it is too much work to maintain many versions of a distribution at any one time. this means that after the EOL you will not be receiving any updates (including important security updates) unless you are using seperate PPAs (the switch to 10.04 is worth it if not just for the ability to install ppa: lines). You will also not be receiving any kernel updates.

it is a good idea to switch to the next LTS release before your old release becomes EOL so you have time to get used to it and get the kinks worn out before you feel like you are forced into it.

I would give it a try!

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-11-01
I wouldn't want to run a distro past EOL for updates just because Internet security is a constantly evolving thing. Without those updates you could suffer a vulnerability without knowing about it. But follow the great advice already given and have all your files safely protected in the event of an install failure, upgrade failure, crash, etc.

---

