---
title: "32 or 64 bit?"
date: 2010-08-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Lhun on 2010-08-10
Hi there, I'm about to download and (hopefully) install ubuntu, so I go to the webpage and where it asks which should I download it says that it recommends 32-bit Ubuntu. Now my computer has Windows 7 64-bits so my question is why shouldn't I install Ubuntu 64-bit, what makes it not recommended

btw I tried reading the [Ubuntu Pocket Guide and Reference]("http://www.ubuntupocketguide.com/index_main.html") but I had no success finding something related about this.

---

### Post by marshmallow1304 on 2010-08-10
Some proprietary software (like Adobe Flash) is available only for 32-bit.  There is a wrapper that makes it possible to use 32-bit Flash on 64-bit but it does not always work perfectly.  If you use Flash heavily, consider using 32-bit.  Otherwise, go with 64.

---

### Post by borth92 on 2010-08-10
it has more bugs, like youtube will not work in the event you have compiz-fusion running. 64-bit is definitely faster, but I'm sticking with 32-bit for now....

---

### Post by realzippy on 2010-08-10
> **borth92 said:**
> it has more bugs, like youtube will not work in the event you have compiz-fusion running. 64-bit is definitely faster, but I'm sticking with 32-bit for now....

Nah,runs fine with compiz depending on your graphics card ..
If you have > 4 GB RAM,install the 64 bit version.

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-08-10
> **Lhun said:**
> so my question is why shouldn't I install Ubuntu 64-bit, what makes it not recommended?

In the context of why it says that on the Ubuntu download page, post number 62 offers some sort of explanation.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/+bug/585940](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-website/+bug/585940)

---

### Post by Lhun on 2010-08-10
thanks all for your reply, after reading it all plus the links provided I've decided I'll stick to 64 bit since it seems using it will support future development of better stuff, I'm sorry I had taken your time but: 

[COLOR="Blue"]32-bit - Recommended for most users
64-bit - Not recommended for daily desktop usage[/COLOR]

Reading that was really discouraging me from going 64, anyway thanks for your time and patience.

^_^

---

