---
title: "8.10 Intrepid is constantly freezing my HP Laptop"
date: 2008-12-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RonB123123 on 2008-12-19
I'm running an HP Pavilion dv6000 series laptop and I'm not using any proprietary drivers. When I'm using firefox, booting up my computer, or doing anything, intrepid will randomly freeze my computer. I wasn't having any issues with 8.04 and was wondering if there was a way to stop these freezes, check sys logs and send bug reports, or as a last resort, able to downgrade back to 8.04.

Is anyone else experiencing the same issues? If I can file bug reports and give details of these freezes so intrepid could better, what are the instructions to do that? I don't know much about looking at error logs or even how to.

~Ron

---

### Post by khernandezpardo on 2008-12-23
I have the same problem with my Sony VAIO laptop (VGN-FZ350FE) since some updates a few days ago... I don't know how to turn them back or undo them... anyone?

PS: I've noticed that my CAPS and SCROLL LOCK lights start blinking when the computer freezes, but I've been unable to find any error codes for my laptop nor in the user guide nor the sony support page (maybe someone else can)

---

### Post by rttm on 2008-12-23
I'm having the same problem. Again the number lock and cap lock light fast  blinking, and the my Panasonic cf-52 completely freezes. I may have something to do with the wireless. I froze on me while changing wireless network. Would there be a log of written about the crash. Would sure like to help in isolating this fault.

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2008-12-23
For the first post I think this may help. As for the other 2 posts I think that's a wifi issue but it's a little different.

Believe it or not the freezes seem to tie into the sound Pulse Audio (when not configured properly) can send the cpu to 100% causing the freeze. This has been reported by several people and the solution is here for that.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4928900](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4928900)

I was having freezes too and since completing the how to have not had a freeze at all.

This may or may not be your particular issue but it's where I would start after reading everything I have.

---

### Post by omarino on 2009-01-02
Samo problem with freezing and lights flashing on Sony Vaio. Might be connected to weak wireless signal.

---

### Post by lift_test on 2009-01-02
I have the same problem with an Acer Travelmate 4200.  In my case it is the Locked symbol with an "A" that flashes.  It seems to happen more often on WiFi than wired.  However I'll try the HOWTO mentioned above.  HOWTO fails on step 2 of Appendix A It says continue (Y/n?),  whatever I enter ("Y" "n") it aborts

---

### Post by gusanto on 2009-01-28
I'm using Ibex on my Sony Vaio VGN-NR120E and have the same problem, freeze constantly. I suspected if Openoffice causes the problem, but not. It happened when I'm not running OOo either.
The freeze event was slowly but continuous when it started until it's completely frozen. Only the power button can help.
Anyone posting here has tried the solution by following the suggestion above or any good news yet?

---

### Post by ptemple on 2009-02-05
Also have the same freezing bug, complete lock up randomly with the two lights (lock plus lock with A in it) flashing. Happens on:
a) Samsung Q45 with Ubuntu 8.10 installed via Wubi (after a while)
b) LiveCD Kubuntu 8.10 on Vaio PGC 8Z1M (very shortly)

Phillip.

---

### Post by alessaale on 2009-02-06
Hi everyone,
I have a Sony-Vaio VGN-NR38Z.
I'm having random freezing of my laptop, 
connected to the use of the wireless.
Everything started since I upgraded the linux kernel to 
2.6.27-9-generic.
Was a solution ever found for this problem?
A.

---

### Post by RonB123123 on 2009-02-06
I was having that same Caps Lock switch on and off problem. I started to also notice freezes when I was using wireless internet it would freeze a lot more than with an ethernet cord.

Interesting solution but I surprisingly have not had a crash for about a month. Has anyone thought the PulseAudio fix was effective?

---

### Post by ChrisBeaumont on 2009-02-07
I had the same issue twice this morning, both when connected to a weak wireless signal. The caps and scroll lock buttons flash

Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid
Kernel 2.6.27-11-generic
Sony VAIO VGN-FW290

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2009-02-07
Laptop: Toshiba Satellite P25-s607
Hardware: Pentium 4 2.8G Hyperthread, 2G RAM, Nvidia 5200GO 64M, 40G Harddrive, Atheros Wireless Chippset
Software: Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex

I am having a problem with my laptop freezing up on startup. Either on the Ubuntu loading screen or within a minute or so after login. It doesn't appear to be freezing on the actual login screen but perhaps I'm not leaving it there long enough. It does not freeze when I go into the BIOS and I have tried leaving it there for an hour or more. So I suspect this is a harddrive issue but I have no idea how to find out. Thanks for any help or at least reading this.

On a side note, I'm having a hell of a time getting my wireless card working consistently (before the freezing thing of course). Thanks again.

---

