---
title: "visual studio 2003/2005 alternative"
date: 2007-08-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hellz12 on 2007-08-09
Now that I've got Ubuntu running on my laptop I need to compile VS2k3 or VS2k5 C++ scripts. I haven't had any luck with Monodevelop, and I doubt I'll get much further with Eclipse, basically what these scripts are composed of is a server, the creator of these scripts runs Linux, he said he uses bash and something called vi to compile the scripts. Basically I either need to find a way (using VMWare I imagine) to compile these scripts or use what the creator of these scripts is using. Any help would be appreciated.

I have installed a VMWare server and client but I don't have a clue as to go about accomplishing what needs to be done.

PS. I have Ubuntu on one partition and Windows XP Home on the other.

---

### Post by Steveway on 2007-08-09
Since you say those are C++, your best bet would be g++.
You can install it and other usefull compilers by:
$sudo apt-get install build-essential

---

### Post by karl_eller on 2007-08-09
I only do relatively basic C++ programming, but I just use a text editor (emacs, vi, etc) to write the code, and g++ to do the compiling.

you can either go 
```

sudo apt-get install g++

```
or
```

sudo apt-get install build-essential

```
to get the g++ compiler. It's not quite as good as having a nice programming environment like Visual Studio, but it gets the job done.

Just be glad you're not using a crappy command-line based version of Solaris like they try and get us to use at uni.

Eller

---

### Post by vexorian on 2007-08-09
I am not exactly following.

Do you want to compile for windows? if so then vmware is the answer but you'll have to install windows on it first. And then visual studio on the windows virtual machine.

If you want to compile some C++ source for Linux but the only compile instructions were generated by visual studio you are pretty much screwed, well not quite, I think it would be easy to make a Makefile to compile the C++ source, what's gonna be hard would be converting the source code from the totally lame and locked in Visual Studio C++ to a gcc (and ISO) compliant C++ that you can compile on gcc...

---

### Post by Dark Star on 2007-08-09
AS far as C++ in Linux I use G++ , and Anjuta ... 

See G++ needs to be used from commands from Terminal.. if u want to compile while Anjuta has inbuilt like Turbo C..
Here are steps u need to do:--

**For G++ Installation and usage :---**

To install G++ 1'st open Terminall.. and type this
```
sudo apt-get install g++
```

but you should probably do (to install everything you might need in ways of developement): Type this after the above commands installation finished. :cool2: 
```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

That will also include gcc and g++;) 

Now usage of G++/GCC....

simple, use editor to type in your C/C++ code. save it with the .c or .cpp extension.

**Then exit form the editor, in terminal type :**

cc filename.c

This will create the **a.out file.**

now type **./a.out**

**to get the output**

to specify a custom name, u need :
```
cc -o outputfilename sourcefile.c
```

**About Anjuta : **

To install type thiis in Terminal 
```
sudo apt-get install anjuta
```

It will have a button to press to compile your code.:bleh: :ohyeah: 


Hope it helps 
Peas Ds:)

---

### Post by hellz12 on 2007-08-09
Like I said I'm dual booting so would it be possible to run VMWare on my computer that way I could basically use windows on my Linux partition and thus use Visual Studio. 

Thanks for all the replies. :p

---

### Post by apetresc on 2007-08-09
> **hellz12 said:**
> Like I said I'm dual booting so would it be possible to run VMWare on my computer that way I could basically use windows on my Linux partition and thus use Visual Studio. 

Thanks for all the replies. :p

Um, yes, but I think you're misunderstanding a bit what VMWare does. VMWare does not let you boot your other partition (yet). It boots a totally different virtual machine. Yes, it's Windows, but it won't be the same Windows install that you have on your hard drive. You'll have to install a new copy of Windows for VMWare, and reinstall Visual Studio on it.

---

### Post by splintercellguy on 2007-08-09
Actually VMware CAN boot another partition if you add the partition as a physical disk. I'm not sure about VS 2005 but with latest latest Wine 0.9.42 and its new support for activation context running VS 2005 under Wine MIGHT work, but file an AppDb report :).

---

### Post by hellz12 on 2007-08-09
Wine throws its hands up at the thought of even attempting to install VS2005, setup cancels itself prior to even starting the installer. I guess my only other possibility of doing this is to VMWare onto my partition and start it that way?

I have tried to used Wine to open devenv.EXE (I have copied the whole directory-"Microsoft Visual Studio 8"-from my Windows partition to my Linux partition) and I get something about missing a DLL. I'll see what I can do about moving that directory over to my Windows/Wine directory and putting the needed DLL's in the system32 folder on my Windows/Wine drive.

---

### Post by stchman on 2007-08-09
gcc and g++ are installed by default on Ubuntu.  You will need the build-essential package as it contains the header files for C and C++.

I personally use gedit for my programming as it has syntax highlighting and such.  VS is really nice as it has the graphical tolls to generate code.

There are some development tools out there for C and C++ in the Linux world.  You will have to do some Googling.

---

