---
title: ".sh script not launching app when run from crond"
date: 2009-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Matthaeus on 2009-11-20
I'm trying to run this script (/usr/local/bin/vnc.sh)
```
#!/bin/bash
#could also use pgrep
CNAME=`ps -eo comm | grep testing12345`
NOW=`date`
if [ "$CNAME" = "" ]
then
	/usr/bin/x0vncserver 
	echo "vnc started -" $NOW >> /home/matt/vnc_restart.log
fi

```

i used ```
sudo crontab -e
```
and added 
```
# * * * * * /usr/local/bin/vnc.sh

```
to run the script every 1 minute.

When i run the script (/usr/local/bin/vnc.sh) from the terminal or nautilus, it works fine.
When ran from cron, the script launches fine and adds to the vnc_restart.log, but x0vncserver (/usr/bin/x0vncserver) is not launched.

What have i done wrong?

Many thanks, Matt.

p.s. ```
sudo chmod a+x vnc.sh
``` was used to set attributes.

---

### Post by eicos on 2009-11-20
When you run the script from the terminal and it works, are you using sudo, or running it with your regular permissions? When you execute ```
sudo crontab -e
``` you're editing root's crontab. The script might not be working when run as root for some reason. Try adding the entry using ```
crontab -e
```.

---

### Post by Matthaeus on 2009-11-20
> **eicos said:**
> When you run the script from the terminal and it works, are you using sudo, or running it with your regular permissions? When you execute ```
sudo crontab -e
``` you're editing root's crontab. The script might not be working when run as root for some reason. Try adding the entry using ```
crontab -e
```.

Thanks for the reply.

I can run the script as myself or sudo and it works (vnc launches). The only problem is that if i run it from my account, the log file doesn't update (doesn't have permission).

i just tried adding it via ```
contab -e
``` and it made no difference (other than the log file isn't edited).

Anyway, im going to have a sleep and see if that fixes things :)

p.s. I think the persmission trouble is because the orignal log file was created under sudo....

---

### Post by Bonster on 2009-11-21
Donno if this makes a difference but cron uses sh and not bash. You can edit this:

> sudo gedit /etc/crontab

and change the

> SHELL=/bin/sh
to
SHELL=/bin/bash

or just change your script to use #!/bin/sh
---

2nd whats the error log says?
edit your crontab and add a log output

> crontab -e

> * * * * * vnc.sh > /tmp/vnc_error.log 2>&1

---

### Post by Matthaeus on 2009-11-21
Thanks for the reply mate.

the sh / bash didn't make a difference, but i was able to work out where i went wrong with the log. Thanks!

I needed to add -display=:0 as a parameter. I guess you don't have to do this from the terminal as you're already using display :0?

```
#!/bin/sh
#could also use pgrep
CNAME=`ps -eo comm | grep x0vncserver`
NOW=`date`
if [ "$CNAME" = "" ]
then
	echo "vnc started -" $NOW >> /home/matt/vnc_restart.log
	x0vncserver -display=:0
fi
```

Cheers, Matt.

---

