---
title: "Ubuntu won't boot, need to change GRUB default boot choice"
date: 2010-01-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SNYP40A1 on 2010-01-05
I tried to do my parents a favor by installing Ubuntu 9.10 alongside WinXP on their PC -- same configuration I have on my desktop at home.  The install went fine, but since I made a poor buying decision on purchasing a MSI motherboard in the past, Ubuntu immediately crashes after boot (other MSI board users having the same issue, no help from MSI).  The computer tries to boot Ubuntu by default unless something else is selected from the boot menu.  How do I change the boot preference from default (choice 0) to WinXP?  I tried manually changing this (editing the grub.cfg file), but the file said not to edit, that it's generated by something else...

How do I have WinXP load by default instead of the broken Ubuntu?

---

### Post by maybeway36 on 2010-01-05
If you just want to get rid of GRUB so only XP boots, you can run this Linux command from a live CD:
```
dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/[yourharddrive] bs=446 count=1
```
Your hard drive will normally be either /dev/hda or /dev/sda. The above command deletes the MBR, so your PC will go to the active partiton, which contains Windows.
Note that working with dd is dangerous. If you want, you can do a Google search on the above command to make sure I'm not lying. :)

---

### Post by Mint Sharpie on 2010-01-05
> **SNYP40A1 said:**
>  I tried manually changing this (editing the grub.cfg file), but the file said not to edit, that it's generated by something else...

If you can get there, try [FONT=Courier New]sudo vim /boot/grub/menu.lst[/FONT] [FONT=Verdana]and messing around. There's a timeout option, and if you set it to 10 seconds or so you should have enough time to manually pick XP from the list when you boot. You may also be able to change the listing to put XP first.[/FONT]

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-01-05
Your motherboard isn't the problem, I'm currently running 3 MSI boards, and I just sold a 4th that I have used since Dapper, The only problem was the onboard graphics adaptors, I usually had to start in safe graphics mode to do an installation. 3 of the MB's have nvidia graphics adapter, and the other one has an ATI radeon Xpres chipset.

You can change/fix grub using this [howto]("http://blogs.koolwal.net/2008/12/28/windows-xpvista-dual-boot-does-not-boot-from-grub2-or-grub-pc/").

---

### Post by ywh842005 on 2010-01-05
I think you can install StartupManager, then you don't need to configure via terminal, that is what i do to my boot order

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-01-05
This first link explains 5 of the most common tasks after installing GRUB 2, including how to display the menu and set the default OS:

[Grub 2 - 5 Common Tasks]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1302743")

This second link explains how to restore a lost system as a result of installing a new OS, if you think that might be the problem:

[How to restore the Ubuntu/XP/Vista/7 bootloader (Updated for Ubuntu 9.10)]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708")

---

### Post by askreet on 2010-01-05
> **maybeway36 said:**
> If you just want to get rid of GRUB so only XP boots, you can run this Linux command from a live CD:
```
dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/[yourharddrive] bs=446 count=1
```
Your hard drive will normally be either /dev/hda or /dev/sda. The above command deletes the MBR, so your PC will go to the active partiton, which contains Windows.
Note that working with dd is dangerous. If you want, you can do a Google search on the above command to make sure I'm not lying. :)

Without a bootloader, I'm not sure the BIOS will boot anything.  If you want to restore the Windows bootloader, put in your Windows installation media (this works for XP, and maybe Vista) and boot to Recovery Console.  Once there, run:

```
fixmbr
fixboot
```

---

### Post by SNYP40A1 on 2010-01-06
I did the fixmbr followed by fixboot.  That did the trick.

No, the MSI board that I have really does have a problem with Ubuntu 9.10.  And I'm not the only one:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Core_2_Duo_Support](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Core_2_Duo_Support)

Something with the 945G chipset on an MSI board.  It even crashed using the LiveCD.  However, I installed Ubuntu on a laptop and another desktop using the same LiveCD no problem.  Only other thing I could have tried was removing the fax modem.  Other than that, there are no other cards connected to the motherboard.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2010-01-06
drs305, 

thanks for the informative links.


Reinforces my opinion that grub2 is not going in the right direction!

> 
gksu gedit /etc/default/grub
then:
sudo update-grub


At least grub kept everything in one place /boot/grub so /boot could be a small partition and / could be some thing grub doesn't need to know about like raid, lvm, or encrypted.  Back to the bad old days of "don't forget to run lilo!"

I'm seeing nothing but more pain ahead for 10.4 if they force the grub2 issue without a grub install option!

It took years for grub to replace lilo despite lilo having the constant "don't forget to run lilo" problem when changing its config which made it damn hard to fix if the system wouldn't boot (keep a boot floppy handy!).  Grub was an obvious improvement as if you can read/write the /boot file system somehow, (I've even used the ext2 driver for windows in the past) you can fix any issues in /boot/grub that are causing problems.

I was a lilo hold out until I learned this, then grub was clearly better and worth the pain of re-learning new solutions to all my boot problems.  I've yet to have any such and epiphany for grub2 :(


> dd if=/dev/zero of=/dev/[yourharddrive] bs=446 count=1
This is very bad advice, not many steps above sudorm-rf/  Not all windows systems are configured to have the recovery console available!

--wally.

---

