---
title: "2.6??  What kernel is ubuntu anyway??"
date: 2007-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by uncleclinto on 2007-10-14
Okay, so I want to try out some other distros via virtualbox, and the first question it asks is whether I'm installing Linux 2.2, 2.4, or 2.6?  Come to think of it, I said to myself, I don't even know what ubuntu is or how to find out.  Beyond that, what is gentoo or slackware?

---

### Post by rzrgenesys187 on 2007-10-14
it says what kernel ubuntu is in the grub boot menu.  im sure there is a better way to find out but this is a quick way.

---

### Post by wheredidrealitygo on 2007-10-14
```
uname -a
```

---

### Post by jrusso2 on 2007-10-14
open a terminal window and type uname -a

---

### Post by apunc1 on 2007-10-14
i'm using kernal 2.6 on feisty. open up a terminal and type 

```
uname -a 
```

to find your kernal version.

my output looks like this:
```

2.6.20-16-generic #2 SMP Sun Sep 23 19:50:39 UTC 2007 i686 GNU/Linux
```


gentoo and slackware are other linux distributions, just as ubuntu is a linux distro. Gentoo and slackware are usually thought of as linux distros for advanced linux users as they require more linux knowledge and compiling many applications manually 
they are incredibly stable, fast, and customizable. 

go to [www.distrowatch.com](www.distrowatch.com) to find out about different linux distributions.

---

### Post by bouchecl on 2007-10-14
> **uncleclinto said:**
> Okay, so I want to try out some other distros via virtualbox, and the first question it asks is whether I'm installing Linux 2.2, 2.4, or 2.6?  Come to think of it, I said to myself, I don't even know what ubuntu is or how to find out.  Beyond that, what is gentoo or slackware?

Most if not all current distros use a 2.6.x kernel, which was first released 4 years ago, in December 2003. So, unless you install an old RedHat, Slackware or something like that, it's Linux 2.6.

---

