---
title: "12.10 not saving audio level or custom keyboard shortcuts on reboot or login"
date: 2013-01-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by studiofreak on 2013-01-16
as the title says,12.10 not saving audio level or custom keyboard shortcuts on reboot or login.

The volume is always up full on log in

and the keyboard shortcuts set to certain number keys on a microsoft 4000 usb wired keyboard (which has always worked fine) Will be getting the 7000 over the next few days and the mouse also with it. but its essentially the same layout just wireless blue tooth (if you aren't familiar with it)

I have no idea what is going on I have tried to search google and these forums for a solution but to no conclusion what so ever.

Also another strange thing happens, if I am connected to the internet, and have the network manager to enable the network etc, on log in or reboot, it says I am no longer connected as the pop up comes up, but the tick is on, so I have to uncheck it, then tick it again, for it to be enabled.

This is a fresh 12.10 install and I am at a loss, so anyone's help would be very useful.

There are obviously session settings not being saved to the user some how?

I hope people can help me,

Thanks :guitar:

---

### Post by studiofreak on 2013-01-16
can anyone please help?

---

### Post by studiofreak on 2013-01-17
no one at all? :(

The launcher keys on the keyboard seem to be saving in the keyboard settings for the navigation and the custom short cuts so that seems to have had some kind of update come through to fix it.

As for the audio levels - still on full when I log in or re boot?

As for the network - always disabled when login or reboot? I have to deselect it and then reselect it to enable? but it says its disabled anyway but says enabled? the pop up says not connected and the actual network applet says connected?

Very odd?

---

### Post by studiofreak on 2013-01-17
OK just fixed one problem! The network, in network settings I selected connect automatically and that fixed. That was a very simple error on my behalf not seeing it.

But that does not explain why the audio is on full every time even when I leave it half way, or off?

Anyone help please?

---

### Post by studiofreak on 2013-01-18
OK strangely they have fixed themselves but I have a newer version of the microsoft keyboard I now have the 7000 and I have a problem with that so going to post in the relevant forum

---

