---
title: "9.04 hosed after trying &quot;standby&quot;"
date: 2009-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brad1138 on 2009-05-02
My 9.04 system which was working fine until it tried setting it to go into standby after 20 minutes. I didn't watch it shut down but when I turned it on it came out of hibernation instead of stand by and has had a number of problems ever since. First problem was Wireless was hosed, all setting were greyed out, could not access anything. It came back after I restarted the computer but one thing I noticed is I no longer have the nice little pop up that tells me I am connected to XXX just as the desktop comes up. That really isn't that big of a deal but why is it gone? I hate things not working the way they are supposed to, how much bigger could the problem really be behind that symptom? Third Compiz Was all whacked out, when I went to "rotate my cube" for desktop switching the background was all goofy, hard to explain what it was doing but it was kind of a random fluttering of the desktop instead of the background "sky-dome" jpg it should have been. That problem went away after reinstalling Compiz and rebooting, but how many more problems could there be waiting for me to find? I am thinking of doing a full reinstall of 9.04 but I have hours of configuring and setup into this one and I hate to loose that work. What should I do or what would you do?

Thanks,
Brad

---

### Post by meharding on 2009-10-16
Have you had any luck with this?  The strange issue with mine is I increased the amount of Memory on my laptop and that seemed to be the time when standby or hibernate would no longer work.  It is not in front of my right now, but It is a Toshiba Satellite.  I know the graphics card is ATI Radeon and I have used the drivers from their site.  Not sure if this has anything to do with it.

Please let me know if you have anything to help with this..

Thanks

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-10-16
I can't be sure, but I'd cast a wary eye at Network-Manager.

Returning from standby (or hibernate, since I think the default is to standby for a while, then hibernate) is a sticky-wicket for kluge-tastic subsystems like NM.

After standby, the wifi and nic chipsets are not initialized when NM starts trying to use them. Brilliant huh... If you dig through your session logs, you'll probably see errors to that effect.

I remove network-manager as step #3 of any install. It works very well if you're lucky. If you aren't go read the documentation...oh, wait...there ISn't any. Step #2 is grabbing WiCD and setting up my profiles, defaults, etc. It just works.

I pop to standby all the time (Karmic and Jaunty before it) with no trouble at all.

---

