---
title: "14.04 LTS - could not resize windows on external display"
date: 2016-01-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-01-24
This is a installation of 14.04 LTS (64-bit) after upgrading from 12.10 on my ThinkPad T61. This recent upgrade is great on this old T61 (Intel Dual Core 2.6 GHz 4GB DDR@2 14.1" LCD 1440 x 900). 

Finally last night I put this T61 back to its docking station which is connected with a monitor, keyboard and mouse and powered up with 14.01 LTS. The external monitor is an NEC MultiSync LCD 2060NX with 1680 x 1050. To my surprise, window resizing is no longer work. If I move the mouse cursor onto any edge of any window (such as Chrome and Firefox browsers, terminal and any other informational window) and drag it with the left button (to resize the window) it would not respond. I still can use the mouse to move and re-position a window with mouse and I can still use mouse to click on the "enlarge" icon on the window which would then occupy the entire screen, just not the resizing. And this only happens with the external monitor (with the laptop LCD shut).

I don't recall having this problem with the 12.10 Ubuntu with the same hardware setup.

Please advise.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-01-31
This issue is solved by opening the Additional Drivers window (do a search for drivers using the top-left Ubuntu icon would lead to it) and install a "proprietary & tested" driver for the nVidia GPU to replace the X.org's open source video driver which was installed during the 14.04 installation/upgrade process. Ubuntu 14.04 is now a happy rabbit on the external NEC monitor!

---

