---
title: "17.10 NTFS partitions are mounted as read-only"
date: 2017-12-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fares-1010 on 2017-12-08
So i was using **Windows 10** , and i replaced it with **Ubuntu 17.10**
but i found that my **2** **NTFS** **partitions** ( sda3 , sda4 )  are mounted as** Read-Only**
i tried this twice for both of the partitions

```
[I]
sudo ntfsfix /dev/sda3[/I]
```

```
sudo mount -o rw /dev/sda3
``` 
in the **Terminal** and it worked for **sda3** only !

But the **sda4** is still mounted as **read-only **!
and i got this error
```
Error opening '/dev/sda4': Permission denied
FAILED
Attempting to correct errors... Error opening '/dev/sda4': Permission denied
FAILED
Failed to startup volume: Permission denied
Error opening '/dev/sda4': Permission denied
Volume is corrupt. You should run chkdsk.


```

( please notice that I'm not in a duel boot , i only use Linux now )

---

### Post by fares-1010 on 2017-12-08
Now i have Ubuntu 17.10 running on my laptop for the first time ( with no windows installed as a duel-boot )
everything is great BUT there's one partition that is mounted as ( Read-only )
i tried this ```
ntfsfix /dev/sda4
```
and that was the result 
```
Mounting volume... Error opening '/dev/sda4': Permission denied
FAILED
Attempting to correct errors... Error opening '/dev/sda4': Permission denied
FAILED
Failed to startup volume: Permission denied
Error opening '/dev/sda4': Permission denied
Volume is corrupt. You should run chkdsk.
```
Then i tried this ```
sudo ntfsfix -b -d /dev/sda4
```
and the result was 
```
Mounting volume... OK
Processing of $MFT and $MFTMirr completed successfully.
Checking the alternate boot sector... OK
NTFS volume version is 3.1.
Going to un-mark the bad clusters ($BadClus)... No bad clusters...OK
NTFS partition /dev/sda4 was processed successfully.
```
and it is still read-only
Do i have to install windows again to solve the issue and then go back to Ubuntu ?
And what exactly is the problem with the partition and what caused it ?

**The problem has been solved by the codes above and do a restart ..**

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2017-12-08
Threads merged. Please do not post duplicate threads on the same subject. It causes confusion and dilutes community effort.

This:

> Volume is corrupt. You should run chkdsk.

You have to run chkdsk somehow or other. ntfsfix is not a substitute. This from man ntfsfix:

> ntfsfix  is a utility that fixes some common NTFS problems.  ntfsfix is
       NOT a Linux version of chkdsk.  It only repairs some  fundamental  NTFS
       inconsistencies,  resets  the  NTFS  journal file and schedules an NTFS
       consistency check for the first boot into Windows.


You don't have to install Windows again. If the HD is removable from whatever device you are using (you don't specify), you can attach it to another Windows computer and run chkdsk from that. Or a Windows recovery/install CD/DVD if you can get hold of one. Or there are some bootable rescue discs that include chkdsk. This link may give you some leads:

[https://www.raymond.cc/blog/running-a-check-disk-with-an-easy-to-use-interface/](https://www.raymond.cc/blog/running-a-check-disk-with-an-easy-to-use-interface/)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-12-08
You're probably another victim of Windows "Fast Startup/Boot", which is nice for Windows-only users, but not so good for using NTFS volumes in multi-boot.
[https://askubuntu.com/a/145904](https://askubuntu.com/a/145904)

The safest way to handle the volume is to boot with Windows, run chkdsk, and make sure Windows shuts down completely (no hibernating or "Fast Startup" shutdown).
You may also find some repair utilities that can accomplish this for you without having Windows installed.
If you are confident the volume is okay and the read-only mount is due to the hiberfile, you can try the remove hiberfile option in the link. Read the warnings carefully, and if you don't have your data backed up, now would be a good time to do that...

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-12-08
Keeping data on ntfs partitions while running linux only is not a good long-term solution. As you noticed, Ubuntu has reasonable but not perfect support for ntfs partitions. Whenever the ntfs partition gets damaged, for example by an unclean shutdown, you may have a hard time fixing it. Plan on migrating the data to a Linux partition.

---

### Post by RingoFyre on 2018-09-23
Apologies for necropost - I had a similar issue on debian. Unmounting the ntfs volume and then running ntfsfix solved the problem for me.

---

