---
title: "9.04 - ATI Radeon Screen Flickers"
date: 2009-07-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kingmetalx on 2009-07-19
Hi ;o)

I'm on a Toshiba Satellite A215-7416 with ATI Radeon X1200, dual-booting Vista and Ubuntu 9.04.  I have display effects turned off, yet I've noticed that when I'm doing regular tasks, such as clicking on menus or opening programs, the screen sometimes flickers for half a second.  The flicker is a line or two that is the entire screen's width.

I've searched the forums and the web and found that it could possibly be because of ATI.  Is this true?  Has anyone else experienced this?  Thanks!

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2009-07-19
> **kingmetalx said:**
> Hi ;o)

I'm on a Toshiba Satellite A215-7416 with ATI Radeon X1200, dual-booting Vista and Ubuntu 9.04.  I have display effects turned off, yet I've noticed that when I'm doing regular tasks, such as clicking on menus or opening programs, the screen sometimes flickers for half a second.  The flicker is a line or two that is the entire screen's width.

I've searched the forums and the web and found that it could possibly be because of ATI.  Is this true?  Has anyone else experienced this?  Thanks!

Which driver are you using?

---

### Post by aj_the_first on 2009-07-20
I have the exact same computer with the exact same card and 9.04 installed.  I was having the exact same problem, then I got this answer, and it solved it completely:
 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1174943&highlight=screen+flicker&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1174943&highlight=screen+flicker&page=3)
 
Check entry #22 I believe.  It is easy, and it worked perfectly.

---

