---
title: "Dual monitor, V-sync slightly off in secondary monitor"
date: 2011-02-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Katulobotomia on 2011-02-02
I've successfully managed to configure my two monitors to work in perfect harmony (almost)....one problem.

I have V-sync enabled both in Compiz settings, and in NVIDIA X server settings, V-sync work in my primary monitor but it is slightly off in the secondary. They have different resolution (1920x1080_60  and  1440x900_59.89)

The secondary monitor has a tearing-up-effect that slowly runs up(at least it seems to run up) the screen, takes about 4,5 seconds for the off-sync to reach the end of the screen.

Any ideas?

Here is my Xorg:

[I]# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Oct  4 16:01:38 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer X193W"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "BenQ E2420HD"
    HorizSync       24.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 76.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 275"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 275"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-1: 1920x1080_60 +0+0; CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0, CRT-1: 1920x1080_60 +0+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/I]

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-02-02
Check this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1390284"), and check my post about a dual head system.
I hope it helps.

---

### Post by Katulobotomia on 2011-02-02
I love you! It worked! :)


BUT!!! As I've found out in using Linux, solving one problem spawns at least three more.....now I can't move my windows/programs from one monitor to another by dragging them(switching to Xinerama mode fixes this but then the V-sync problem appears again as there is no "screen 0 & screen 1 in CSM), they stop at the monitor edge. My mouse still does go from one monitor to another but not the windows.

Also both have now Gnome Panels, one has two, and the other has one...which I set up my self....the other one is a weird set up I haven't seen before (the arrangement and positioning of elements in it)

...and my secondary display is now the primary(the login screen and the main panels appear on the wrong display) and I can't seem to find a way to switch that back.

A solution for these? :<

[B]EDIT: I found out that setting 
"separate x screens" + xinerama = Unable to V-sync monitors, and wrong monitor is primary.

"separate x screen" = able to V-sync both correctly, both monitors have their own Gnome Panels, both monitors have their own keyboard shortcuts and applications such as GNOME-Do won't respond if the mouse is in the wrong monitor where GNOME-Do isn't runnign....also windows are impossible to be dragged between windows, and wrong monitor is primary.

TwinView + V-sync off = Much less tearing up in the second monitor, but now both have V-sync off.[/B]

---

