---
title: "16.04 - disable CPU throttling"
date: 2016-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sunrex on 2016-05-06
How do you disable CPU throttling in 16.04?

---

### Post by peter228 on 2016-05-07
Could you please explain what you have seen that suggests your CPU is being throttled?

---

### Post by sunrex on 2016-05-08
Because the output of cat /proc/cpuinfo shows it going from 1.5Ghz to 3.2Ghz and anything in between based on load.

---

### Post by peter228 on 2016-05-09
Initially I thought I was totally misunderstand this since the output of 
cat /proc/cpuinfo
shows what CPU is installed.  It does not show real time activity.

But then I looked on my own system and ran the command a few times and I agree with you that the reported CPU speed does vary according to load, or at least individual cores.

I think this may not be CPU throttling but just a reflection that when  CPU is under load it slows down to reflect the system hardware constraints.  A CPU will happily crank though data but if for example the memory is slow to interact then the CPU may need to wait and that will slow the clock cycle.

That is my 5 cents.  Hopefully somebody else can add to the thread ...

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-05-09
No, it's the other way around. 

Power saving is done by slowing down the CPU frequency when there is not much to to. Frequency will reach maximum under a heavy load.

---

### Post by peter228 on 2016-05-09
ok ... so what happens to CPU frequency if there is a bottleneck in the fsb / northbridge?

---

### Post by $yl9pAR%t on 2016-05-09
There is a nice tool in repo to check what is going on with your CPU in a long run. It is called "cpufrequtils". You can install it using terminal:

```
sudo apt install cpufrequtils
```

Next, to watch some interesting info you can run:

```
cpufreq-info
```

I use it only to get info about my CPU usage and I have set my "cpufreq governor" as "ondemand" by default. Perhaps this tool is a good starting point to clarify what you want to accomplish. I guess you want "performance" but I am not sure.

Besides treat it only as guideline, I never changed my CPU frequency settings in OS, I did it only in BIOS.

---

