---
title: "1.5 ghz celeron 512mb ram intel graphics"
date: 2011-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ErdyMurphy on 2011-05-22
Hi everybody,

i have a system with 1.5 ghz celeron, 512mb ram and a intel 82852 graphic card.
Which ubuntu version would you recommend to install on such a system.

Lubuntu?
Xubunut?
Ubuntu?

What are your experiences?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-05-22
Personally, I would avoid Ubuntu and go for either of the other two, Xubuntu or Lubuntu.

I am using Lubuntu on a netbook which has 1GB ram and an Atom cpu where it runs extremely fast.  Takes a bit of getting used to, as there is little in the way og gui configuration apps available, so you need to search out things to deal with trackpads, startup applications, etc, but you can find out fairly easily here.

I have very little experience of Xubuntu, but from what I've seen it has more configuration GUIs available, but I just don't loike it as much.

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2011-05-22
Ive used both Ubuntu 8.04 and 10.04 on a lower spec'd PC than that.
It all depends exactly what you're going to demand of it.

---

### Post by lithopsian on 2011-05-22
No Unity, no Compiz.  Preferably no Metacity at all.  If you're going to do that though you might as well forget straight full Ubuntu and go for a lightweight distro.

I'm also not sure how your graphics will cope with things that many people now take for granted, like full screen Flash video.  That will be the same in any distro though.

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2011-05-22
i have a box running a celeron and 512M.  and i have had ubuntu 10o4 and xubuntu on it.  ubuntu runs ok, but xubuntu is faster and i would bet lubuntu would be even faster.

---

### Post by deserthowler on 2011-05-22
I have a box running Ubuntu 10.04; a PIII 900 with similar specs to the machine you are talking about.  It is mostly used for word processing and Internet sufing and seems fine although a little slow (to me). It is being used by a professional writer who was weaned from Windows 2K after too many viruses.  When asked he says "it always works" and doesn't expect any thing more.

Earl

---

