---
title: "10.10 randomly freezes"
date: 2010-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kraylus on 2010-11-04
i could be doing anything and suddenly the entire gui will lock up. i can right click to get context menus but the options within dont do anything. i tried xkill with alt-f2: it activated the crosshair but when i clicked on something nothing happened.

this started happening after i played minecraft (downloaded version) for an extended period of time (slow as dogcrap i might add). now it happens after a random time has passed no matter what im doing.

the only way to rectify the problem is to kill the Xorg server and restart it. the computer was still usable for a short period, but it'd crash eventually. after a reboot it's good for a longer amount of time before it crashes again.

recent things i've done that might have an effect is i installed kde and then removed it again. had some issues with that, but eventually got it all out thanks to some psychotic kitten.

if anyone has any ideas what i could do to fix this (short of reinstalling), i'm all ears.

thanks!

ryan

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2010-11-04
Question 1: Is your system generating .crash files for these incidents? Look in /var/crash directory. If not, try enabling apport in /etc/default/apport and restart. The report provides a lot of useful information.


Question 2: Note the time of a crash. After restarting, look in your /var/log/syslog for any system messages around that time. Post them here.

---

### Post by kraylus on 2010-11-04
thanks for the help! the crash logs werent turned on, so i enabled it.

soon as the ubuntu iso is down downloading (i left my memory stick with the installer in iraq) ill reboot and wait for it to crash again.

few sidenotes: i also installed a bunch of wine related apps yesterday (e.g. wine, cedega, pol, winetricks) and tinkered with them til i got l frustrated over the game i was tryin to get workin right.

anyhow, i spose once it crashes again, we'll find the culprit and hopefully i wont be forced to reinstall everything. i only have one spare usb stick for installing.

k, download's done. i'll report back here in a couple hours when it all goes to hell again!

thanks again,

ryan

---

### Post by kraylus on 2010-11-04
well, i DID think it was minecraft causing the problem. i was about to reply minutes ago with what happened when it crashed yet again moments after rebooting and opening firefox.


prior to that, the computer had run fine for a good three hours til i opened minecraft. after which point it had locked up within minutes while playing the game.

seems the initial reboot after the crash is still plagued by whatever had caused the crash. now things are working swell.

there's no logs in /var/crash/ and the syslog doesnt seem to have anything that looks out of the ordinary around the minute the crash happened. then again, i dont think im qualified to make that call. here's the only single solitary message in syslog that matches the time it crashed in minecraft.

```
Nov  4 17:53:41 miniKray kernel: [  447.861210] Skipping EDID probe due to cached edid
```

i cant seem to pinpoint the time of the second crash or any messages related to it.

im afraid this is probably going to call for a reinstall. but of windows, i cant have java apps forcing me to do a complete format every so often. ugh.... i so liked the speediness of ubuntu.

***EDIT***

i forgot to mention that anytime i run minecraft, it comes up with this error while it starts. then i have to close it and open it again and it works fine (til that brown stuff hits the fan):

```
--- BEGIN ERROR REPORT a1dce528 --------
Generated 11/4/10 5:33 PM

Minecraft: Minecraft Alpha v1.2.0_02
OS: Linux (i386) version 2.6.35-22-generic
Java: 1.6.0_22, Sun Microsystems Inc.
VM: Java HotSpot(TM) Server VM (mixed mode), Sun Microsystems Inc.
LWJGL: 2.4.2
OpenGL: Mesa DRI Intel(R) IGD GEM 20100330 DEVELOPMENT x86/MMX/SSE2 version 1.4 Mesa 7.9-devel, Tungsten Graphics, Inc

java.lang.NullPointerException
	at gh.<init>(SourceFile:29)
	at net.minecraft.client.Minecraft.a(SourceFile:255)
	at net.minecraft.client.Minecraft.run(SourceFile:560)
	at java.lang.Thread.run(Thread.java:662)
--- END ERROR REPORT f189fce0 ----------
```

i did a search on the forums and google about java freezing systems and i found a few where people had had the same exact symptoms when trying to run java apps with 3D graphics. dont know that there was a fix for it, the end result was a bug report was filed and that was that.

---

