---
title: "11.04 : networking issues."
date: 2011-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by enimeizoo on 2011-05-24
Hello,
I just installed 11.04 from livecd on a new partition. It worked until it stopped worked, but I can't figure out why. I was rebooting a lot, to try some settings (I don't remember exactly what, but nothing to do with networking, mostly trying to solve an issue with a plasmoid, shortlog it is called).
eth connection works fine. (Actually that is what I use right now)
I am connected with the router on wlan0, but it just wont respond to anything. I can't ping it, I can't ping any website, I can't tracepath any website, I can't access any website... I don't really understand what is happening. Knetworkmanager says me I am connected, but whatever I do, there is no data incoming from or going to wlan0, except when I connect.

I still have 10.04 on another partition, where it works just fine. I believe it happened after updates yesterday. Is there a way to revert updates, or even see last updates done (what softwares were updated), or something?

Any clue about what I can do to solve this, or even understand what is going on will be appreciated.

(edit) it works fine with kubuntu 11.04 livecd, so I almost certain it is an update.

(edit) I solved it temporarily using wicd as my network manager. I don't set it as solved since I would prefer having the default network manager working.

---

### Post by kuckunniwi on 2011-06-06
> **enimeizoo said:**
> 

Any clue about what I can do to solve this, or even understand what is going on will be appreciated.

(edit) it works fine with kubuntu 11.04 livecd, so I almost certain it is an update.

(edit) I solved it temporarily using wicd as my network manager. I don't set it as solved since I would prefer having the default network manager working.
rtl
I'm having the same exact problem. The network manager finds networks (for both my wireless adapters: integrated rt2800pci and external usb rtl8187), manages to connect to them (sometimes), but I can't surf the web, download etc.: there's no traffic at all. I tried running the LiveCD, and it works fine, so it must have been one of the latest updates.

Additionally, it duplicates my current connection: I only have one wireless interface available where I live, and when I open the network manager, it displays this connection about 6 times. 

It sounds like a bug in the latest updates. I'll try WiCD and see if it works. Hopefully, there'll be a fix sometime soon.

---

