---
title: "[9.10 x64] Blank TTYs after latest kernel update"
date: 2009-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by makaveli789 on 2009-12-03
Whenever I switch to any tty other than the standard CTRL+ALT+F7, I receive a blank screen with a cursor in the top left corner just blinking. This was immediately after installing some updates that included a kernel update.

What I don't understand is how a kernel update can have this kind of effect on the tty screens. Anyone care to take a stab?

---

### Post by jegerjensen on 2009-12-03
I had a similar issue once, and it turned out that the bug was only triggered when I used the ttys with high resolution.  IIRC I turned off the vga=791 switch in the boot parameters.  This gave a crappy resolution, but at least I had access to the consoles.

---

### Post by makaveli789 on 2009-12-03
Now that you mention it, I was messing around with grub screen resolutions before restarting for that udpate. Thanks for the heads-up. I will check it out tonight (once I get home from work that is) ;)

---

### Post by rsh_ on 2009-12-03
I have the same issue with Ubuntu 9.10 x64. I don't know if the same problem was on previous kernel version, but any method I found didn't solve my problem. I use the most current version of NVIDIA drivers from nvidia.com. I've tried two methods ("gfxpayload"/"vga") and the only success was high resolution in grub menu. I got NVIDIA 9800GT and my native resolution is 1680x1050. I think there is a bug in grub2 as I found something about it [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/443105") (in comments people write about similar issues). If anyone have a solution, please share it with us. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by makaveli789 on 2009-12-03
I am also running the latest nvidia drivers although on a 8800GT :D

I have been trying to get my tty screens to run in a widescreen resolution for a while. That is why I was messing around with the resolution settings in GRUB.

---

### Post by makaveli789 on 2009-12-03
> **rsh_ said:**
> I have the same issue with Ubuntu 9.10 x64. I don't know if the same problem was on previous kernel version, but any method I found didn't solve my problem. I use the most current version of NVIDIA drivers from nvidia.com. I've tried two methods ("gfxpayload"/"vga") and the only success was high resolution in grub menu. I got NVIDIA 9800GT and my native resolution is 1680x1050. I think there is a bug in grub2 as I found something about it [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/443105") (in comments people write about similar issues). If anyone have a solution, please share it with us. Thanks in advance.


Yes you are right, it has something to do with the gfxpayload parameter. I just commented it out and tty1 is as normal again.

BTW, I am also trying to get 1680x1050 working! I'm having a play around now...

---

### Post by makaveli789 on 2009-12-04
> **makaveli789 said:**
> Yes you are right, it has something to do with the gfxpayload parameter. I just commented it out and tty1 is as normal again.

BTW, I am also trying to get 1680x1050 working! I'm having a play around now...
I wasn't able to fix it with the gfxpayload parameter set, even when I reduced the resolution to 1280x800. I didn't try a standard 4:3 resolution so may try that. But this would defeat the purpose of using the gfxpayload parameter!

---

### Post by pbrane on 2009-12-06
I've tried using the gfxpayload parameter as well. *Something* is not working, just cursor flashing when I use gfxpayload. I've edited /etc/default/grub and added GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD and edited /etc/grub.d/00_header and still nothing. **vga=791** as a linux parameter still works, but is deprecated. I've read that because the vesafb module is blacklisted that is why this doesn't work. However enabling and inserting the vesafb module results in blank VTs.

typing vbeinfo on the grub command line shows all the vbe resolutions available, but they don't work at all using gfxpayload, just flashing cursor.

---

### Post by dasbooter on 2010-01-11
just thought I would throw out a me too but I just did a kernel update just the other day. Does anybody have a fix... i guessed I just noticed this though so maybe it had been that way for a while.

---

