---
title: "19.04 No way of disabling power button to shut down"
date: 2019-06-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by senchronize on 2019-06-09
It's very annoying since on my keyboard power is right next to F12. I tried several old fixes but none worked. There doesn't seem to be a power button editor either. Are there any solutions to changing what power buttons do that worked? thanks.

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2019-06-10
[S]I only have Ubuntu 18.04 available at present but I assume Ubuntu 19.04 is the same or very similar.

In the Settings application under 'Power | Suspend & Power Button' there is an option 'When the Power button is pressed' that can be set to 'Nothing'. Is that something you have tried?

I don't have a keyboard with a Power button to test but that option does work on my laptop.[/S]

Sorry, I only saw 19.04 and not the [COLOR="#0000CD"]Lubuntu[/COLOR] tag.

---

### Post by senchronize on 2019-06-13
Anyone know a solution? :(

---

### Post by PaulW2U on 2019-06-14
Hi senchronize, as I misread your initial post in this thread and in the absence of any reply here that provided you with an answer to your question I downloaded the latest ISO of Lubuntu's development release (19.10) and found no way of accomplishing what you wanted.

Did you know that Lubuntu now has its own forums?: [https://discourse.lubuntu.me/](https://discourse.lubuntu.me/)

If the functionality that you wish for is not currently possible then may be Lubuntu's developers will at least hear and respond to any post that you might make there.  :)

---

### Post by senchronize on 2019-06-15
thank you very much, I shall go check it out.

---

