---
title: "18.04 LTS in Emergency Mode!"
date: 2020-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cubdukat1968 on 2020-04-21
Up until shortly before the new year, I was running a dual-boot system of Win10 Pro and Ubuntu 18.04 LTS. Win10 Pro was on the main drive, a Samsung 960 EVO NVME drive, while Ubuntu was on another Samsung SSD, a SATA 850 EVO 250GB. I ended up having to do a CMOS reset on the MB because a BIOS setting I did went wrong. When the system booted again, it would no longer boot into Ubuntu, going straight into emergency mode. I don't believe the file system is corrupted because Ubuntu was shut down correctly and I had done chkdsk on Win10 once it could boot again. From perusing journalctl (?), it seems like it can't find the 960. 

I have two questions:

1. I have a USB drive that I want to save the logs to so that I can post them here since I can't actually boot into Ubuntu, but I can boot into Win10. I can't seem to find it, though. I'm going to /dev/disk/ and I've tried to look it up by-label, but when i type in "cd /dev/disk/(thumb drive label)," it says "not a directory." Am I even looking in the right place? I'm only lightly experienced in working in terminal mode.

2. Can I solve this problem by running "grub-mkconfig" again, and would this endanger the Win10 install? I am trying to do this in a manner that would preserve both. I am hesitant to do a repair installation because it was such a nightmare to install Ubuntu in the first place because 18.04 didn't see the 960 in the first place. 

If I'm able to get the logs onto the USB drive, I will definitely upload them. I finally got my Ubuntu system the way I wanted it, and I'd really like not to have to start again...

Any assistance would be greatly appreiciated.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2020-04-21
Rather than leaping into panic mode and messing up your Grub or whatever, you could just set your BIOS settings back to how they were when they worked. Setting the drive mode to AHCI rather than RAID and turning off Secure Boot would be the likely candidates. Turning off (or on) the Legacy Compatibility Support Module would be another possibility.

---

### Post by cubdukat1968 on 2020-04-21
I had thought about that, but unfortunately I don't remember what those settings were. One thing I do know of is that one of the changes is than an external hard drive caddy was removed from the system because it kept corrupting every drive put into it, but the one drive that was in it was eventually integrated into the system once a free SATA port came up. 

My main concern is finding out how to get the logs onto the USB thumb drive so that I can upload them here once I'm back in Win10 Pro. I'm looking to save the journalctl -xb and a copy of /etc/fstab. Are there any other logs I need, and how do I generate those?

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-21
Because of the NVME your system is surely UEFI, not BIOS, and all the OSes were - hopefully - installed in UEFI mode. Windows surely was.

Resetting the firmware (again, UEFI) often results in it loosing the boot information but it should be recoverable. First thing first make sure that UEFI mode is enabled - either "UEFI only" or "UEFI + Legacy" should work, but anything "Legacy only" or "CSM only" will not - and then check the boot drives list to assure the one containing the ESP (EFI System Partition) is the first (hopefully it's not the one that was removed) and then, in a different setting, where the OSes are listed it should now show both "Windows" and "Ubuntu"; you may try "Windows" to find out if Windows boots normally but in the end you want "Ubuntu" which is the Grub menu for dual-booting. Please note that some UEFIs do not re-detect the Ubuntu entry after a reset or reconfiguration but Windows is typically re-detected.

---

### Post by cubdukat1968 on 2020-04-30
Well, I finally managed to offload the contents of journalctl -xb, fdisk and grub onto my thumb drive so I can now put them here.

I have a general idea of what happened. It looks like Ubuntu's not seeing the NVME SSD, as I suspected, probably due to the reset. The only thing is, I don't know how to fix it without endangering the Windows side of things. I'd really like not to have to reinstall this, because it was such a nightmare to get it working in the first place.

---

### Post by cubdukat1968 on 2020-09-03
It would appear that I have found the heart of the problem. 

It was in the UEFI setting for which mode my NVME was connected to. When the system got reset, I switched it over to Intel RST to try and get the Optane module in it to work, and that must have caused all the problems.When I changed it back to AHCI, Ubuntu booted right back up. 

I am currently updating everything, and it's going to be a nightmare install since I've gone between two seoarate LTS versions. 

I am also unsure if I want to leave it in AHCI, as I will be losing Optane, so I will change it over every time I want to go to Ubuntu. It's not the best solution in the world, but until I can build a pure Linux box, it's the only choice I have. I would love to run nothing but Ubuntu on my main system, but for work purposes, I need Win10 because there's no Linux version of a lot of the programs I use.

---

