---
title: "10.04: Keep getting &quot;Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module&quot;"
date: 2010-10-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-10-03
Every time I start up my Ubuntu 10.04 install, instead of the graphical login screen, I get an error dialog stating the following:
```
Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode.  The following error was encountered.  You may need to update your configuration to solve this.
```

Also in the dialog are several lines of text:
```
(EE) <date and time> Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module.  Please see the system's kernel log for additional error messages and consult the NVIDIA README for details.  ***Aborting*** Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.
```

I'm not sure what it means by "kernel log," or where any error logs might be saved.  Any tips?  Perhaps if I can find such error logs, posting them will help diagnose the problem.

If it matters, I have 2 monitors, an NEC AccuSync 120 CRT and a Samsung BX2440X LCD.  I use them in Xinerama mode with the Nvidia drivers under my Ubuntu 9.10 install and have no problems there.  

To get normal graphics under 10.04, I have to start up in low-graphics mode, kill X server, reinstall the Nvidia proprietary drivers, and restart the X server.  Then I have to do it all over again after the next restart, every time I want to run 10.04.  It's very annoying.

Also possibly relevant: I use the latest 32-bit Nvidia drivers for 10.04, version 256.53.

I've found a few other threads where people had problems similar to this, but nothing exactly like my situation nor any real resolution so far.  I hope it can be fixed, because there are other things about 10.04 that I really like.

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-10-03
what kernel are you using - the one that came with lucid?  If you are not using stock lucid, maybe you havent install the kernel headers.

Also, try renaming /etc/X11/xorg.conf to something else, rebooting and then using nvidia-settings to recreate a new xorg.conf.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-10-03
I always use this
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-260.19.04-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-260.19.04-driver.html)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1587206&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1587206&page=2)
a couple posts here tell you ways to install this.

---

### Post by Glesshoppa on 2011-02-06
I am having the same basic problem as Ojekt above except laptop with single screen. I found this thread while searching to find where "system kernel logs" are hidden because my system also tells me I should check those.  Is it possible for you guys to tell us where the "system kernal logs" are hidden so I may check those for errors if any? I have already tried every combination of re-installing drivers and renaming xorg.conf file and letting system recreate. None of this has worked I would like to check the system kernel log to see if it reveals something, this is the only thing I have not tried yet.

Thanks in advance,

GH

---

### Post by efflandt on 2011-02-06
Logs are in /var/log, or check **dmesg | less** for messages since last boot and see what video is being loaded during boot.  /var/log/Xorg.0.log may show errors about X.

If you manually install nvidia drivers with a script from nvidia.com, you are on your own preventing that from conflicting with nouveau drivers (or other nvidia package) and reinstalling after any kernel updates, because the Update Manager is not going to know about them.

If you have newer nvidia card than works with nvidia-current, you can get most recent nvidia driver packages for Lucid or Maverick (or Natty), which update automatically, by adding x-swat ppa to your repositories (currently 270.18 ) [http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/ppas/27](http://www.ubuntuupdates.org/ppas/27)

```
**dpkg-query -l nvidia-current nvidia-settings nvidia-current-modaliases**
Desired=Unknown/Install/Remove/Purge/Hold
| Status=Not/Inst/Conf-files/Unpacked/halF-conf/Half-inst/trig-aWait/Trig-pend
|/ Err?=(none)/Reinst-required (Status,Err: uppercase=bad)
||/ Name                        Version                     Description
+++-===========================-===========================-======================================================================
ii  nvidia-current              270.18-0ubuntu1~maverick~xu NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library
ii  nvidia-current-modaliases   270.18-0ubuntu1~maverick~xu Modaliases for the NVIDIA binary X.Org driver
ii  nvidia-settings             270.18-0ubuntu1~maverick~xu Tool of configuring the NVIDIA graphics driver
```

---

