---
title: "Major Internet Slowdown after Installing Ubuntu 9.04"
date: 2009-07-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brizzenden on 2009-07-20
I just installed Ubuntu 9.04 on my laptop yesterday after my Windows 7 Beta messed up royally and I could not re-install Windows 7 (or any other windows OS's for that matter).  Decided I would go back to Ubuntu and was kind of enjoying it until I realized how slow my internet was going.  I downloaded the IMG of Ubuntu on Windows (on my desktop) at 550kB/s.  But then when I started downloading some stuff on Ubuntu earlier and nothing I downloaded was moving at more than 25kB/s.  Also it takes me like 3 times longer to load a page with firefox.  I even did the firefox tweaks to see if that would help and it might have helped, but not noticeably. 

Any ideas on what I could do to fix my internet.

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-07-20
post the output of 
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

---

### Post by brizzenden on 2009-07-20
> **x33a said:**
> post the output of 
```
cat /etc/resolv.conf
```

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 68.189.122.19
nameserver 68.189.122.26

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-07-21
you are using network manager?

try changing your dns servers to opendns:

primary: 208.67.222.222
secondary: 208.67.220.220

---

### Post by brizzenden on 2009-07-21
> **x33a said:**
> you are using network manager?

try changing your dns servers to opendns:

primary: 208.67.222.222
secondary: 208.67.220.220

I am still pretty new to Ubuntu and I am not sure how to do that. :(

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-07-21
open a terminal, then:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/resolv.conf
```delete everything in the file and then paste this into the file:
```
nameserver 208.67.222.222
nameserver 208.67.220.220
```save the file and close gedit.

then do this:
```
sudo chattr +i /etc/resolv.conf
```this is to prevent network manager from overwriting these changes.

---

### Post by fballem on 2009-07-21
Some questions:

[LIST=1]
[*]If your computer is connected to a router, should the address of that router be used as the nameserver? The reason that I am asking is that I think my router is providing the name service.
[*]My resolve.conf file is empty - is that okay?
[*]Are there any downsides to using the opendns servers?
[*]What is an opendns server?
[*]Is there any cost or signup required to use an opendns server?
[/LIST]

Thanks,

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-07-21
How are you connected to the internet? I mean, if your computer is sending a packet to the Internet, what path does that packet travel to get to your ISP? For instance, with me, it travels from my ethernet card to my Homeplug, through my home's electrical wiring to another Homeplug that is plugged directly into an ADSL router.

---

