---
title: "6.06 won't release port."
date: 2006-08-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fjm03 on 2006-08-03
Dapper, as host, refuses to release a parallel port to an XP virtual machine running under VMware Sever 3.

The paraport, in the box's  bios, is configured to ECP.

Both parport_pc and ppdev are complied in the 2.6.x kernel and active.

VMware gets rejected either along its default path, /dev/parport0, or under the Auto Detect setting.

Dapper is configured with a network printer as default using CUPS (IPP) emulation. Could this configuration, some how, create a lock on the parallel port?

Thanks in advance. Any help would be appreciated. There is still only limited information for Dapper at WMware.

---

### Post by hw-tph on 2006-08-04
It might be worth checking if you are a member of the lp group. The parallell port (and devices connected to it) should be owned by root:lp in Ubuntu and only group members and root have read/write permission to it. 

Users are not members of lp as per default. To add yourself to the lp group, type **adduser username lp** (substitute "username" with your actual username). You need to log out and then log in again for the changes to take effect.

Hope that helps.

Håkan

---

### Post by fjm03 on 2006-08-04
First, thank you very much **hw-tph**. My user was not in the lp group. When my user was placed in the lp group the advisory message I receive when I power on the virtual machine has changed.

The advisory orignially indicated "access was denied". After admitting my user to the lp group on the host system, the advisory now reads:

*Parallel port "/dev/paraport0" is used by another program (such as another instance of VMware Server) or driver (such as lp). Virtual device parallel0 will now start disconnected.*

I'm assuming these canned advisories are generated by VMware, which means they are a know issues to VMware. Too bad that VMware doesn't have some documentation to explain in greater detail these known issues and some suggested work-arounds.

Obviously my problem hasn't ended. It's nature has simply changed. In a similar confrontation between the host and the guest, over controll of the host's USB buss, VMware actually had a canned resolution process to resolve that issue (with the users approval, the VMware server simply yanked control of the USB buss away from Dapper). Unfortunately the resolution of this fight for control appears to be in the realm of VMware, not Ubuntu. I'll just keep plugging along until I'm able to appeal to VMware/Dapper guru to help a newbie. 

Thanks again. You were among the few who were willing to reach out. Your insight and help was greatly appreciated.

There is a great irony in this adventure. I am trying to utilize the parallel port on the vXP machine because Ubuntu 6.06 will not recognize my scanner and Xsane has only cursory support for a CanoScan FB 620P.

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2006-08-06
I pretty much solved this problem today. Apparently vmware needs exclusive access to your parallel port to use it. You have to disable "lp" by typing:
```
 sudo rmmod lp 
``` in a terminal. Then on the next start up of your VM your messages should go away and you should have access to you scanner.

Here is the link to the vmware page:
```
http://www.vmware.com/support/ws55/doc/ws_devices_parallel_configure_linux.html
```

This worked for me with Win98 and VMware Server on 6.06, needed to run an archaic Agfa Snapscan 310 that won't run in Xp or Ubuntu ;) .

What is interesting is that the printer still works after closed down lp both locally and when used by remote pcs. So what does lp do, and why do we need it?

---

### Post by fjm03 on 2006-08-07
Jose Catre-Vandis:

First. Thank you.  Every indication is that an application or module on the host OS is locking a range of I/O addresses. Some have even suggested removing CUPS.

But ... before I remove the lp module this Linux newbie needs to find the answer to two questions.

1) What exaclty, and in detail, does the lp module do? 

2) If removing the module from the host represents a loss of functionality in the host and, removing the module doesn't improve functionality in the guest, how do I reinstall the lp module back into the host OS?

I became involved with OS virtualization on a Linux host to compliment Linux's relative security on a WAN by expanding its more limited flexibility with regard to contemporary hardware, applications and the bastardization of web standards by the dominance of MS. I don't want to further reduce the capability of the host, as a desktop enviornment, in the process.

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2006-08-08
> **fjm03 said:**
> Jose Catre-Vandis:

First. Thank you.  Every indication is that an application or module on the host OS is locking a range of I/O addresses. Some have even suggested removing CUPS.

But ... before I remove the lp module this Linux newbie needs to find the answer to two questions.

1) What exaclty, and in detail, does the lp module do? 

2) If removing the module from the host represents a loss of functionality in the host and, removing the module doesn't improve functionality in the guest, how do I reinstall the lp module back into the host OS?

I became involved with OS virtualization on a Linux host to compliment Linux's relative security on a WAN by expanding its more limited flexibility with regard to contemporary hardware, applications and the bastardization of web standards by the dominance of MS. I don't want to further reduce the capability of the host, as a desktop enviornment, in the process.

1

From the man
```
man lp
```
```
 DESCRIPTION:lp submits files for printing or alters a pending job. Use  a  filename       of "-" to force printing from the standard input.
```
I guess cups or samba takes over on my system printing through applications?


2

```
sudo modprobe lp
```
will restart lp on your host system

---

### Post by fjm03 on 2006-08-08
Worked for me also.

Removed the lp module using: ```
 sudo rmmod lp
```

Removing the lp module does allow vXP's LTP1 access to the physical port on the machine. Removing the lp module from Dapper does not appear to affect communication between Dapper and a networked printer. Don't know what effect removing the lp module might have regarding communication with a local printer, attached to parport0, communicating through SSP, ECP or EHC.

Since I'm not sure what the lp madule does, after I power down the virtual machine, I reload the module using: ```
 sudo modprobe lp
``` 

As VMware warned, Dapper does reload the lp module at boot. However, I couldn't locate either of the two generic, Linux, 2.6 kernel, module configuration files (/etc/modules.conf or /etc/conf.modules) which VMware suggested I edit to prevent reload at boot.. A search for "*conf.modules" brings back no results and the string  "*modules.conf" brings back 3 files in the "/etc/gnome-vfs-2.0/modules" folder. Since I'm a Linux newbie, I'm hesitant to edit any of the three. The choices are: default-, mapping- or ssl-.

---

### Post by fjm03 on 2006-08-08
During my brief research I found one explanation suggesting that the lp module only comes into play on standrad printer ports (uni-directional) which makes some sense since the module was apparently an early Unix tool, introduced long before the home, consumer and small business market generated devices that demanded faster communication.

Again. however, I don't have a local printer attached to parport0 on Dapper and couldn't test the theory.

I do now have a parallel port scanner attached to parport0 on Dapper and it works, as designed, on vXP. The only noticable change is that scans are  haultingly along the flat bed, Aparently the scanner is waiting either for communications or for the CPU to catch up. The FB 620P, not a speed demon at inception, runs about 20% slower on a 2.6 Ghz machine under VMware than it did native, on XP, on a 1.7 Ghz machine.

Again, thanks for the input. My credentials prevent me from posting a "How To" regarding these circumstances but you might consider doing it since there are probably more than a few folks that might want to use a parallel port in a Windows virtual machine on a Dapper host.

---

