---
title: "11.04: where is Save Session (on log-out) ?"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-04-28
Where has the possibility to auto-save session on logout gone in 11.04? Or even just save a session at any point?

It has been filed as a bug on [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-session/+bug/771896](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-session/+bug/771896) but I fear it has been (re)moved on purpose... 

Is that true? If so, why?

---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-05-01
Or am I the only one here? (bump)

---

### Post by PolkaMan on 2011-05-01
I also would like to get a solution to this..

---

### Post by busstop on 2011-05-04
A very much missed feature, that I hope will be back soon...

---

### Post by mike4ubuntu on 2011-05-04
well, it looks like it's kind of there, but it doesn't quite work.  See this

[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man1/gnome-session-save.1.html]("http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/lucid/man1/gnome-session-save.1.html")

I tried calling ```
gnome-session-save
``` at the command line, but it didn't seem to work.  Which seems like it's really a bug an not just Canonical wanting to remove that feature, I guess.

---

### Post by SRTS on 2011-05-05
I want to turn off my PC but I can't until this bug gets fixed xD Please help!

---

### Post by JNieto on 2011-05-05
> **SRTS said:**
> I want to turn off my PC but I can't until this bug gets fixed xD Please help!

:D I Have the same problem. 

:confused::confused: This is very disturbing !!!

I start to consider to abandon Ubuntu which is becoming quite "silly" and install anew a more serious distro. Debian perhaps...

---

### Post by SRTS on 2011-05-05
this **** is costing money keeping the PC switched on permanently, but i just cant open and place all those terminals and other windows on each login.. someone pleaaase figure out how to fix this bug quickly, isn't there some witty terminal command that works?

---

### Post by SRTS on 2011-05-06
Ok people, after some googling it seems to me that the Ubuntu dudes have ENTIRELY TAKEN OUT THE SAVE SESSION option in 11.04 in ANY WAY!
I'm not sure how they could all turn into braindead retards at the same time, but this is what happened.
Well, time to switch distro^^

Edit: Is "Mint" Linux cool? I heard some good things about it.
Or is pure Debian a better idea if I'm coming from Ubuntu?

---

### Post by mcglnx on 2011-05-07
Well - This is a user experience regression to me.
Still no more idea?

---

### Post by SRTS on 2011-05-08
I was just wondering, is it just Ubuntu with Gnome that has been broken?
Or is the same true for KUbuntu, XUbuntu..?

If KUbuntu is still ok, could I just do "sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop" and simply change session to "KDE" on login?

---

### Post by AmmarkoV on 2011-05-08
Well , I also was very used to the feature.. 
As a temporary solution until someone fixes it you can make a bash script that starts up and opens your "favourite" apps and add it at System -> Startup Applications

For example 

```
#!/bin/bash
firefox&
pidgin&
audacious2&
skype&
exit 0
```All this of course opens on the first Workspace , with it I have all the apps that were "remembered" but not random things like pdf documents or nautilus windows and terminals on other desktops.. Still better than nothing :P

---

### Post by RJ12 on 2011-05-08
> **SRTS said:**
> I was just wondering, is it just Ubuntu with Gnome that has been broken?
Or is the same true for KUbuntu, XUbuntu..?

If KUbuntu is still ok, could I just do "sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop" and simply change session to "KDE" on login?

Yup :)

---

### Post by SRTS on 2011-05-08
> **RJ12 said:**
> Yup :)

ahem sorry, but do you mean "yup it is broken" or "yup it is not broken"? ^^'

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-05-08
> **SRTS said:**
> ahem sorry, but do you mean "yup it is broken" or "yup it is not broken"? ^^'

If you want a "serious" and "stable" distro, I've been recommending Scientific Linux 6.0 lately. Based on RHEL, developed by CERN and FermiLab, and will be supported for the next 7 years. Great distro :)

---

### Post by wind-n-water on 2011-05-10
I'll need to check out this Scientific distro.  If, in fact, the 'save session' feature was intentionally removed from Gnome or Ubuntu, something is lacking in the decision making process ... user input, for instance.  In my opinion, it's too convenient a feature to abandon.

---

### Post by StephanBeal on 2011-05-11
> **SRTS said:**
> I'm not sure how they could all turn into braindead retards at the same time, but this is what happened.

It certainly seems that way. From what i understand, Shuttleworth is noted for saying that Ubuntu is _not_ a democracy. So maybe we can just blame it on him, he being the benevolent dictator and all ;).

> **SRTS said:**
> Well, time to switch distro^^

If i weren't so lazy i'd switch back to 10.10. i can't believed i updated both of my machines at once, ruining what was a perfectly good desktop experience. If i had been more patient, the second machine wouldn't have been upgraded. The fact that the kdbg package was removed from 11.04 pains me greatly.

---

### Post by mike4ubuntu on 2011-05-13
Yeah, looks like Canonical just made the decision to switch to LightDM from GDM in 11.10.  Looks like GNOME session is history.

[http://digitizor.com/2011/05/12/ubuntu-11-10-lightdm/]("http://digitizor.com/2011/05/12/ubuntu-11-10-lightdm/")

---

### Post by QLee on 2011-05-13
If your system is capable of hibernation (suspend to disk), it would provide a similiar functionality as booting up to a saved session in that all your apps would be in the state you left them.

---

### Post by sloopjonb on 2011-05-23
Yeah - but that's not the point. Having the ability to log back into your familiar session has been a constant feature of Linux workstations, which  are typically left switched on by default, and in a networked environment (where users might be sharing different machines). 

This is such a retrograde step - and the idea of putting apps into the startup list is just daft - that is for sys config stuff, and other essential progs, not for terminals and a browser.

Nuts.

jon

---

### Post by chrismacp on 2011-06-16
Yeah I can't believe this functionality has been removed. I rely on this so much too. Rrrr.

---

### Post by shankin on 2011-06-16
This is the main reason I'm still using 10.10.  I'm not going to waste my time every time I log in if I don't have to.

---

### Post by krzysztofikus on 2011-12-10
Isn't there any other solution to this? Lack of automatic session saving and poor wi-fi connectivity in 11.04 makes me think about going back to 10.10...

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2011-12-10
[SIZE=3]Ok...everyone is wrong.

Wrong.

It wasn't 'taken out', rather it's done FOR YOU automatically when you logout, restart, or shutdown.

It's been automated, that's all.


[/SIZE]

---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-12-12
> **pretty_whistle said:**
> [SIZE=3]Ok...everyone is wrong.

Wrong.

It wasn't 'taken out', rather it's done FOR YOU automatically when you logout, restart, or shutdown.

It's been automated, that's all.


[/SIZE]

Are you saying your session is saved upon logout/reboot/shutdown? Did you upgrade or did you do a clean install?

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2011-12-12
> **RavanH said:**
> Are you saying your session is saved upon logout/reboot/shutdown? Did you upgrade or did you do a clean install?
Yeah the session is saved.

I first had a clean install of 11.04, then later upgraded to 11.10.  Sessions are saved automatically on both of them.

---

### Post by Kurtosis on 2012-01-15
> **pretty_whistle said:**
> Yeah the session is saved.

I first had a clean install of 11.04, then later upgraded to 11.10.  Sessions are saved automatically on both of them.

Could you elaborate a bit more?  I know for a fact that 11.10 (clean install) on my laptop is not automatically *restoring* my previous session on logon.  But maybe it's *saving* the previous session and I just need to enable the restore-on-logon functionality somehow?

There's some discussion of this topic at [askubuntu.com as well]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/78207/save-unity-desktop-session"), with some suggestions.  I'm trying the suggestion to add a gconf-editor key:

> /apps/gnome-session/options/auto_save_session = true

No idea if this will work, but Unity on 11.10 is still running /usr/bin/gnome-session, so fingers crossed...

Edit:  No dice, doesn't work.

---

