---
title: "10.04 Sound too low"
date: 2010-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rhoparkour on 2010-12-30
Hello,

  My HP Pavillion dm4 has had Ubuntu (Lucid) for a while now, but about a month or two ago, it started to have trouble playing sound, it is just too low and has "no bass." Here is a list of useful info,

- Sound is low, it has no bass at all, as if it was an old radio (treble all the way up).
- The sound is fine with my headphones.
- Sound was fine until once I logged in and sound was horrible.
- I remember trying to tweak the volume before I logged in, it did nothing, but it was right before this problem started.
- Tried going to alsamixer, but the volume settings are high anyway.
- System > Preferences > Sound is of no help, if I turn the master volume all the way up, it's better but still the sound is not quite right.

  The sound is so low I can't hear much if someone is talking in the same room.

Thanks for the help in advance.

---

### Post by rhoparkour on 2010-12-31
Will I need to reinstall? I'd rather wait for the next ubuntu release (11), rather than Meerkat, since I have a lot of installed stuff here which will be a pain to reinstall.

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-12-31
Reset your pulseaudio config:
Using a Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
```

rm -r ~/.pulse ~/.asound* ~/.pulse-cookie 
sudo rm /etc/asound.conf
```
**Logout/in.**
Ignore any not found errors. Next use the alsa-info-script to provide detailed information.
Run this command in a terminal:
```
wget http://www.alsa-project.org/alsa-info.sh -O alsa-info.sh && bash alsa-info.sh 
```
Choose the upload option and provide a link for the output.
[Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"]

---

### Post by rhoparkour on 2010-12-31
Hey man thanks for the help, will try soon (working right now), I guess I'll just back up the config file you want me to rm. Just a question, is it necessary to delete these files to run the info script? How can I restore them after whatever it is I will do?

---

### Post by lidex on 2010-12-31
If you need to save them, just rename, then rename back to restore. Of course a restart is necessary to initialize changes. They are just config files and can safely be removed. The pulse files will regenerate themselves and sometimes refreshing them solves the issue so you want to do that first as a troubleshooting step.

The script does nothing to your system. It just runs a sequence of info gathering commands and puts the output together in a neat little package.

---

### Post by rhoparkour on 2011-01-19
Has been almost a month, sorry for the delay, I was swamped finishing a big job.

[http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=905b50acc15db9946ce81cd5bd54ad771ef1fe79](http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=905b50acc15db9946ce81cd5bd54ad771ef1fe79)

Here is the result of the script, your instructions did not fix my sound.

---

### Post by lidex on 2011-01-20
Your codec may be better supported in newer alsa versions. Probably the easiest approach is upgrading your alsa-driver-modules. Using a Terminal="Applications->Accessories->Terminal"
Add the ubuntu-audio-dev ppa:
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-audio-dev/ppa
sudo apt-get update
```
Now install:
```
sudo apt-get install linux-alsa-driver-modules-$(uname -r)
```
**Reboot**
Check your levels in alsamixer.
```
 alsamixer 
```
Press <F6> to select the correct soundcard.
Press <F3> to show playback levels. <F4> selects capture levels [or use <Tab>]
Use the left/right arrow keys to select and up/down arrow keys to change levels. <M> to mute/unmute.
Go to "System ->Preferences ->Sound" and make sure the correct soundcard is default and adjust your profile on the hardware tab. 
On the output tab choose the correct device.

---

