---
title: "8.04(x64) No sound after suspend/resume"
date: 2008-05-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ac14112 on 2008-05-28
I'm kinda a noob at linux, so anyone who answers is gonna have to kinda dumb it down for me.  I recently installed Hardy Heron (x64) and have been having a problem with my sound after i suspend and resume the system.  It works perfectly fine before I suspend, but afterwords, i get nothing.  I have searched for the solution, but nothing i try works.  I tried killing and restarting pulseaudio and alsa and editing 
sudo gedit etc/default/acpi-support and changed mode from "mem" to "standby", but that also doesnt work.  If I restart my computer, then the sound works just fine, but i dont want to have to do that after every suspend, obviously.  Please help! Thanks.

---

### Post by reesje on 2008-05-29
What sound board do you have? If it is an intel HD audio compatible adapter (like e.g. my built in Realtek 889a) then you may need to specify some configuration in /etc/modprobe/alsabase. Maybe you can find your card here:
[http://www.mjmwired.net/kernel/Documentation/sound/alsa/ALSA-Configuration.txt]("http://www.mjmwired.net/kernel/Documentation/sound/alsa/ALSA-Configuration.txt")
Scroll down to line 770. It worked for me - as soon as i specified the options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-dig in my configuration file sound worked after suspend. Before that it only worked before the PC had been in suspend mode. I didn't have to specify my card in Gutsy.

BR,
René

---

### Post by ac14112 on 2008-05-29
Thanks for the answer, I have an ALC882 and I tried what you said, however, I'm not sure I'm doing it right.  Here is my /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base file as it is now:

```
# autoloader aliases
install sound-slot-0 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-0
install sound-slot-1 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-1
install sound-slot-2 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-2
install sound-slot-3 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-3
install sound-slot-4 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-4
install sound-slot-5 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-5
install sound-slot-6 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-6
install sound-slot-7 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-7

# Cause optional modules to be loaded above generic modules
install snd /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet snd-ioctl32 ; : ; }
install snd-pcm /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-pcm && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet snd-pcm-oss ; : ; }
install snd-mixer /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-mixer && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet snd-mixer-oss ; : ; }
install snd-seq /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-seq && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet snd-seq-midi ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet snd-seq-oss ; : ; }
install snd-rawmidi /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-rawmidi && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet snd-seq-midi ; : ; }
# Cause optional modules to be loaded above sound card driver modules
install snd-emu10k1 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-emu10k1 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe -Qb snd-emu10k1-synth ; }
install snd-via82xx /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-via82xx $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe -Qb snd-seq ; }

# Load saa7134-alsa instead of saa7134 (which gets dragged in by it anyway)
install saa7134 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install saa7134 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe -Qb saa7134-alsa ; : ; }

# Load snd-seq for devices that don't have hardware midi;
#   Ubuntu #26283, #43682, #56005; works around Ubuntu #34831 for
#   non-Creative Labs PCI hardware
install snd /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd && { /sbin/modprobe -Qb snd-seq ; }
# Prevent abnormal drivers from grabbing index 0
options bt87x index=-2
options cx88_alsa index=-2
options saa7134-alsa index=-2
options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2
options snd-intel8x0m index=-2
options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
options snd-usb-usx2y index=-2
options snd-usb-caiaq index=-2
_**options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-dig**_
# Ubuntu #62691, enable MPU for snd-cmipci
options snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330 fm_port=0x388
```

The bold is what i inserted, but it still has no sound after I suspend and resume.  I'm sorry, I'm really really new at this, more help would be appreciated. Thanks.

---

### Post by ac14112 on 2008-05-29
Sorry, I'm dumb, after computer restart, it works fine. Thanks so much for your help!

---

### Post by sebrock on 2008-07-01
should it bnot be "snd-hda-intel model=6stack-digout"???

---

### Post by ac14112 on 2008-07-01
Idk, but what I have there is what works.  I dont have any problems with the sound now when I suspend and resume.

---

### Post by sebrock on 2008-07-01
Well, I tried both and funny enough the only one that works is "dig" and not "digout" as it is stated in the kernel documents. Strange...

Thanks for the tip anyway!

---

### Post by arturic on 2008-07-24
I had the same issue. The solution by reesje worked perfectly I have ALC885. Thank you very much, I'd never figure this out by myself.

I'd like to say that I upgraded from 7.10 (x64) and never had this issue before this kernel version (2.6.24-19). Also with other kernel versions (I think 2.6.24-18 or -16 but not sure) suspend didn't work at all, at power up it said resume failed and then rebooted.

---

### Post by sphyg04 on 2010-01-21
> # autoloader aliases
install sound-slot-0 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-0
install sound-slot-1 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-1
install sound-slot-2 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-2
install sound-slot-3 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-3
install sound-slot-4 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-4
install sound-slot-5 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-5
install sound-slot-6 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-6
install sound-slot-7 /sbin/modprobe snd-card-7

# Cause optional modules to be loaded above generic modules
install snd /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-ioctl32 ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }
#
# Workaround at bug #499695 (reverted in Ubuntu see LP #319505)
install snd-pcm /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-pcm $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-pcm-oss ; : ; }
install snd-mixer /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-mixer $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-mixer-oss ; : ; }
install snd-seq /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-seq $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-oss ; : ; }
#
install snd-rawmidi /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-rawmidi $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq-midi ; : ; }
# Cause optional modules to be loaded above sound card driver modules
install snd-emu10k1 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-emu10k1 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-emu10k1-synth ; }
install snd-via82xx /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install snd-via82xx $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist snd-seq ; }

# Load saa7134-alsa instead of saa7134 (which gets dragged in by it anyway)
install saa7134 /sbin/modprobe --ignore-install saa7134 $CMDLINE_OPTS && { /sbin/modprobe --quiet --use-blacklist saa7134-alsa ; : ; }
# Prevent abnormal drivers from grabbing index 0
options bt87x index=-2
options cx88_alsa index=-2
options saa7134-alsa index=-2
options snd-atiixp-modem index=-2
options snd-intel8x0m index=-2
options snd-via82xx-modem index=-2
options snd-usb-audio index=-2
options snd-usb-us122l index=-2
options snd-usb-usx2y index=-2
options snd-usb-caiaq index=-2
options snd-hda-intel model=6stack-dig
# Ubuntu #62691, enable MPU for snd-cmipci
options snd-cmipci mpu_port=0x330 fm_port=0x388
# Keep snd-pcsp from being loaded as first soundcard
options snd-pcsp index=-2
# Power down HDA controllers after 10 idle seconds
options snd-hda-intel power_save=10 power_save_controller=N

That is my alsa-base.conf file, but my sound still doesn't work after suspend.. what am I doing wrong.

---

### Post by AClark on 2010-02-13
@sphyg04  Did you verify that you have Intel sound hardware?

```
aplay -l
``` 
in a terminal will give you a list of your sound hardware.

I have had this issue for quite a while and have been working around it by creating a launcher that executed:
 ```
sudo alsa force-reload
```

But remembering to double click on it every time I came out of suspend was a pain and if I didn't remember until I noticed that sound wasn't working there were several programs like VLC & Virtualbox that crashed when reloading alsa.

Anyway the solution in this thread worked for me on a machine with an Asus MB and Hardy (8.04) 32bit.

Ubuntuforums Rocks!

---

### Post by jukingeo on 2010-04-03
> **AClark said:**
> @sphyg04  Did you verify that you have Intel sound hardware?

```
aplay -l
``` 
in a terminal will give you a list of your sound hardware.

I have had this issue for quite a while and have been working around it by creating a launcher that executed:
 ```
sudo alsa force-reload
```

But remembering to double click on it every time I came out of suspend was a pain and if I didn't remember until I noticed that sound wasn't working there were several programs like VLC & Virtualbox that crashed when reloading alsa.

Anyway the solution in this thread worked for me on a machine with an Asus MB and Hardy (8.04) 32bit.

Ubuntuforums Rocks!

Hello all,

I have this same problem with no sound after resuming.  I have done the above and "sudo alsa force-reload" DOES work.

Now I know the easy way out is to make a desktop icon and click on it after resuming after suspend, but nuh uh...That isn't what *I * want.   So you know the next question that is coming.  I would like my sound to restore on resume without any hoop jumping.  Plain and simple.

I am also on Ubuntu (Studio) Hardy (8.04).

Thank you,

Geo

---

