---
title: "Issues mounting several HDDs"
date: 2009-04-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2009-04-09
I have six hard drives.

My Windows drive, originally mounted as /media/Clouds
My downloads drive, originally mounted as /media/Datalink
My multimedia drive, originally mounted as /media/Mojo
My games drive, originally mounted as /media/Raptor
My research drive, originally mounted as /media/Terra

and my linux filedrive.

Something peculiar has happened and now the mapping/mounting seems completely off...

Clicking Clouds leads to /media/Clouds_
Datalink  => /media/Datalink_
Mojo = > /media/Raptor (but it has Mojo's files)
Raptor => /media/Datalink (but it has Raptor's files)
Terra => /media/Clouds (but it has Terra's files)

How can I fix these aliases so that they aren't being linked to directories that are the names of different HDDS (Mojo/Raptor/Terra)

If I try to unmount Clouds & Datalink, I can, but if I try to unmount the other three HDDs (Mojo/terra/raptor), i get a permissions error message stating that only root can perform this task.
[img]http://img7.imageshack.us/img7/629/59810204.png[/img]

---

### Post by bertolo on 2009-04-09
go to console and type
> sudo su
your password
nautilus
and unmount it through it

---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2009-04-09
Unable to unmount Clouds

umount: /media/Clouds: device is busy.
      (in some cases useful about processes that use the device is found by lsof(8) or fuser(1))

Hrm... I see the misnamed drives mounted in the root's filebrowser, but it seems I still can't dismount them.  Ideas?

Edit:  I was able to unmount all of them.  To now give them their proper mounts, do I need to do anything special?

---

### Post by FrankT-Qc on 2009-04-09
Here's a thing : 

Every once in a while, the physical devices get mapped to different /dev/sd???. 

If you don't have these drives in fstab (/etc/fstab), it's almost random. If you have them in fstab but use something like :

```
/dev/sda1 /home ext3 relatime 0 2
```

then your mounting will be messed up every time you drives are remaped

Instead, you ca use the UUID of your partitions
```
UUID=c72b9006-03a1-43fc-a8ef-e89af4b75a2c /home ext3 relatime 0 2
```
which would give more consistent results since the UUID never change...

you can find out your UUIDs by issuing this command :
```
ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid/
```

for more information :
```
man fstab
```

---

### Post by pbotros1234 on 2009-04-09
Well, personally I've never heard of "drives remapping themselves", but even if this does happen it cannot hurt to do it by UUID.

Post the result of:
```
cat /etc/fstab
```


The underline-naming thing (/media/Datalink to /media/Datalink_) occurs because of how you're mounting. If the directory /media/Datalink exists and the Datalink hard drive is not mounted yet, and you mount the drive via nautilus, Nautilus will automatically create a new folder (/media/Datalink_) and mount the drive there.
This means that your fstab is not mounting your drives. I think? Post your fstab lol :P

---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2009-04-11
Thanks.

Everything is working well now, except I still "don't have permissions" to my Terra drive :|  

If I login as root and open nautilus, i can't even see the HDD.

---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2009-04-13
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sde1 :
UUID=82aade29-ee7c-4b27-b7ab-fc8ce76d54cd / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sde5 :
UUID=a609802a-6a0d-4c78-9c7d-e1a2460e83db none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdd1 /media/Raptor ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/Terra ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/Datalink ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Clouds ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

```

So, /media/Terra is in my fstab, but I still can't mount it? huh?

---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2009-04-13
Hrm, 
```

.505.[18:18 drew@mithbuntu:/media 0Mb]$ sudo pmount /dev/sdc1
fuse: failed to access mountpoint /media/Terra: No such file or directory
.506.[18:18 drew@mithbuntu:/media 0Mb]$ sudo mkdir Terra
.507.[18:18 drew@mithbuntu:/media 0Mb]$ sudo pmount /dev/sdc1 Terra
Warning: device /dev/sdc1 is already handled by /etc/fstab, supplied label is ignored
.508.[18:18 drew@mithbuntu:/media 0Mb]$ ls -l
total 176
lrwxrwxrwx 1 drew drew     6 2009-03-24 23:09 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2009-03-24 23:09 cdrom0
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root 57344 2009-04-13 17:49 Clouds
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root 73728 2009-04-13 18:02 Datalink
drwx------ 8 drew root 16384 1969-12-31 17:00 DREW'S IPOD
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root 12288 2009-04-12 15:12 Mojo
drwxrwxrwx 1 root root 12288 2009-04-12 15:12 Raptor
**drwxrwxrwx 1 root root  4096 2009-04-12 15:12 Terra**

```

And voila, I can now access my Terra drive.  Problem seemed to be with permissions surrounding creating the Terra folder in media... I don't understand that.  Could someone explain why I had to manually create that directory?

---

### Post by mithbuntu on 2009-04-16
I rebooted and everything is screwed up again.  Guess I have to do by uuid.

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-04-16
You really shouldn't be mounting internal drives under /media, since Ubuntu will treat them as removable media, which could cause problems.  A better place to mount general-purpose partitions is the /mnt directory.  

And yes, you should really put them in fstab by UUID, since the device file associated with a drive can change.

---

