---
title: "9.04 Jaunty Konqueror crashes - information"
date: 2009-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 4ebees on 2009-10-17
I've recently installed Kubuntu Jaunty 9.04.

Konqueror version 4.2.4

I changed the home page to /home/<user.name>

and each time I tried to open Konqueror it would pop up a window stating:

Malformed URL

!!

Additionally if I then attempted to split the browser windows in any fashion, the whole thing would crash.

Eventually after un/reinstalling I made the following changes within Konqueror:

Setting - Configure Konqueror

Then changed:

"When Konqueror starts" to "Show introduction page"

and changed the home page back to:

[http://www.kde.org](http://www.kde.org)

When I saved and restarted Konqueror, it became happy again.

This was a real PITA!

During this performance, if I ran Konqueror from the CLI I received the following information:


"/usr/bin/konqueror(7882)" Error in thread 3051293520 : "org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown - The name org.kde.nepomuk.services.nepomukstorage was not provided by any .service files"
"/usr/bin/konqueror(7882)" Error in thread 3051293520 : "QLocalSocket::connectToServer: Invalid name"
Object::connect: No such signal FolderExpander::enterDir(const QModelIndex&)
Object::connect: No such signal FolderExpander::enterDir(const QModelIndex&)
KCrash: Application 'konqueror' crashing...
sock_file=/home/amanda/.kde/socket-<name>-laptop/kdeinit4__0

HOWEVER if I select the home directory from either the navigation panel OR type /home/<name> it again gives me a 'malformed URL' dialogue box. I close this and another pops up. I close this and then I'm in my home directory!

Weird. Does anyone have any ideas as to what is happening here or can direct me to a discussion/solution?

Many thanks.

---

