---
title: "Latest Ubuntu kernel upgrade broke nvidia driver"
date: 2008-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fizikz on 2008-11-27
I just applied the latest updates in Intrepid using the update manager which included a kernel upgrade, and after rebooting, it started up in low graphics mode. That didn't seem like a problem as I've recompiled the nvidia kernel module many times on previous similar upgrades. But this time it just won't work. I get the same low graphics mode after either recompiling the kernel module and even after reinstalling the nvidia driver. In desperation, I deleted the xorg.conf file and rebooted. This time it no longer came to the low graphics mode, but the nvidia drivers are not loaded. If I try to open nvidia-settings, I get a warning saying "You do not appear to be using the nvidia X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server." Unfortunately this does not work. I also tried running 'glxinfo' and it gives "Xlib: extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0". " a bunch of times and then ends in a segmentation fault. Any help? I thought this would be just a routine update...

---

### Post by fizikz on 2008-11-28
I believe I solved this problem, although I still don't understand exactly what the problem was. I figured that the new xorg.conf that got generated had some kind of "bad" line(s) in it. So I replaced it with an old backup (actually from 8.04) and it worked; nvidia and X loaded with no complaints. CompizFusion is happy too. So although I don't know why the default xorg.conf generated by the nvidia driver installation isn't working, I found a way around it.

---

### Post by slinkey1981 on 2008-11-28
You mean this?

```
name of display: :0.0
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Error: couldn't find RGB GLX visual

   visual  x  bf lv rg d st colorbuffer ax dp st accumbuffer  ms  cav
 id dep cl sp sz l  ci b ro  r  g  b  a bf th cl  r  g  b  a ns b eat
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x21 16 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0.0".
0x3a 32 tc  1  0  0 c  .  .  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0 0 None
```

Cause I am getting it too. WEE FUN!

When I get this fixed, I'll try to help out better, just wanted you to know that you weren't alone in it.

---

