---
title: "cannot install video card 9800gt"
date: 2010-01-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by computerjunkie on 2010-01-01
I have seen a number of threads on this forum dealing with the successful installation of this card so I decided to get one. After installing the card and installing ubuntu I installed the proprietary driver (180) listed under "Hardware Drivers" it installed successfully and I reboot the computer. Once the system came back up I got the ubuntu boot screen, but as soon as the login window should have appeared my monitor went black with a floating message saying "No Signal, Check Video Cable"

:confused:

reinstall

Then I downloaded version 190.43 from the nvidia website, ctrl+alt+F1 to drop to shell, and ran the installer as root. It again installed just fine. When I reboot the computer my monitor once again displayed "No Signal, Check Video Cable" instead of a login screen.

I'm using the live cd right now as I can't boot into my system. I have searched this forum for other with this problem and I havn't found anyone. What am I doing wrong here??? Do I need to enable nglrx in synaptic before installing the drivers or is there something else wrong?

I am using 64 bit jaunty

---

### Post by computerjunkie on 2010-01-01
After reinstalling again I tried to enable the driver and again it failed. I loaded up the live cd and switched the driver in xorg.conf to "nv" instead of "nvidia". The login screen comes up and I can actually use the system, but 3d acceleration is not enabled and the system is not using the nvidia driver. There is nothing in /etc/modules should there be something there for the driver?

---

### Post by computerjunkie on 2010-01-01
Well, after declaring war on this card I'm getting it to run on the low graphics mode on PCI01:00:1 interface. I think there is a generic driver lurking somewhere, but I don't know. trashed linux-modules-restricted and installed 190.53 from nvidia website. still can't get 2/3D acceleration or advanced features. what do I have to do to get this thing to work...anyone?

---

### Post by Groundswell on 2010-01-01
i'm runnin two 9600gt's i'll share my xorg, i'll note the stuff thats specific to SLI.  

maybe you can confirm your xorg is setup correctly at least with this.

did you let nvidia set up your xorg automatically when you installed the driver?


```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Tue Oct 20 21:25:04 PDT 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice    "Mouse2" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "EmulateWheel" "off"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier "mouse2"
    Driver "mouse"
    Option "Device" "/dev/input/event6"
    Option "Protocol" "USB"
    Option "Buttons" "1"
    Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BusID          "PCI:3:0:0"  #####sli only i think, but not a bad idea
(i can't remember to command to check which busid the card is on)
#####new
    Option         "NvAGP" "0"
    Option         "CoolBits" "2"
    Option         "BackingStore" "True"
    Option         "RenderAccel" "True"
    Option         "NoFlip" "False"
    Option         "NoRenderExtension" "False"
    Option         "MultisampleCompatibility" "True"
    Option         "OnDemandVBlankInterrupts" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "RandRRotation" "True"
    Option         "UseCompositeWrapper" "True"
    Option         "SLi" "AA"   ########## ********SLI only*******
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection

EndSection
 
```



edit: all the stuff under ####new in device section is specific to my situation and you should not need any of it, i just have it for compiz because i was getting strange performance with sli

---

### Post by Groundswell on 2010-01-01
> **computerjunkie said:**
> After reinstalling again I tried to enable the driver and again it failed. I loaded up the live cd and switched the driver in xorg.conf to "nv" instead of "nvidia". The login screen comes up and I can actually use the system, but 3d acceleration is not enabled and the system is not using the nvidia driver. There is nothing in /etc/modules should there be something there for the driver?

no i don't believe any modules are needed, my modules list is empty except what i've put there

---

### Post by Groundswell on 2010-01-01
> **computerjunkie said:**
> Well, after declaring war on this card I'm getting it to run on the low graphics mode on PCI01:00:1 interface. I think there is a generic driver lurking somewhere, but I don't know. trashed linux-modules-restricted and installed 190.53 from nvidia website. still can't get 2/3D acceleration or advanced features. what do I have to do to get this thing to work...anyone?


i know that is is difficult to remove the ubuntu "auto install" restricted drivers, so i never let them touch my hard-drive. maybe do a web search on removing them, i know there are a few ubuntu guides out there.

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2010-01-01
Hey computerjunkie,
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_190.53.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_amd64_190.53.html) has the driver you need.

Another thing you can do is.
> 
sudo apt-get install envyng


(I haven't used ubuntu in over a year now so I am not 100% possitive if its still up-to-date and/or working)

But google it. Envyng will install and configure your drivers for you automagically.

Also, the newest version of Xorg no longer needs the xorg.conf
but I am not sure if ubuntu has that lastest xorg yet.

Hope this helps a little,
If you have questions or ideas, write back. Most Nvidia card work flawlessly with linux

Cheers CC7Gir

---

### Post by vandorjw on 2010-01-01
> **Groundswell said:**
> i know that is is difficult to remove the ubuntu "auto install" restricted drivers, so i never let them touch my hard-drive. maybe do a web search on removing them, i know there are a few ubuntu guides out there.


sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-glx

---

