---
title: "12.04 LTS make error 'kref_get_unless_zero'"
date: 2013-05-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alex fisher on 2013-05-28
Hi, I have been 'making' compat-wireless-2012-12-18 on several Ubuntu 12.04 LTS machines without issue. Suddenly make fails with this same issue on all machines?

l@d:~/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18$ make
make -C /lib/modules/3.2.0-44-generic-pae/build M=/home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18 modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.2.0-44-generic-pae'
  CC [M]  /home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18/compat/main.o
In file included from /home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18/include/linux/compat-2.6.h:69:0,
                 from <command-line>:0:
/home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18/include/linux/compat-3.8.h:10:0: warning: "HID_USB_DEVICE" redefined [enabled by default]
include/linux/hid.h:569:0: note: this is the location of the previous definition
/home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18/include/linux/compat-3.8.h:12:0: warning: "HID_BLUETOOTH_DEVICE" redefined [enabled by default]
include/linux/hid.h:570:0: note: this is the location of the previous definition
/home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18/include/linux/compat-3.8.h:47:32: error: redefinition of ‘kref_get_unless_zero’
include/linux/kref.h:47:32: note: previous definition of ‘kref_get_unless_zero’ was here
make[3]: *** [/home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18/compat/main.o] Error 1
make[2]: *** [/home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18/compat] Error 2
make[1]: *** [_module_/home/l/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18] Error 2
make[1]: Leaving directory `/usr/src/linux-headers-3.2.0-44-generic-pae'
make: *** [modules] Error 2
l@d:~/testWiFi/compat-wireless-2012-12-18$

---

### Post by Laeg on 2013-05-31
Hi Alex

I was having the exact same issue (albeit with a newer version) and there is an easy solution for it. The problem is that the kref.h kernel header seems to have changed in recent versions and now includes the kref_get_unless_zero function. When the compat drivers try to redefine this function, naturally the compiler will complain.

To resolve this issue, simply open the file .../compat-wireless-2012-12-18/include/linux/compat-3.8.h in your favourite editor, find the kref_get_unless_zero function (telling from your error message, it should be on line 47) and comment it out. In case you have no idea what I'm talking about: Change
```

static inline int __must_check kref_get_unless_zero(struct kref *kref)
{
        return atomic_add_unless(&kref->refcount, 1, 0);
}

```
to
```

/*static inline int __must_check kref_get_unless_zero(struct kref *kref)
{
        return atomic_add_unless(&kref->refcount, 1, 0);
}*/

```
(or simply delete it entirely :)).

Afterwards, running make should work fine. Hope that helped.

---

