---
title: "8.10 Random Logoff"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by youngquiksilver on 2008-11-08
So last week I upgraded (not clean install) to 8.10 from 8.04. This was the 2nd time I did an upgrade (first time was 7.10 to 8.04 stable) and everything worked well. Now, occasionally, my system random logs off while I am working. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by GAZ082 on 2008-11-20
Same problem here. Did the same update.

---

### Post by youngquiksilver on 2008-11-21
Previously my graphics card was not powerful enough to turn on any desktop enhancements, but with the update I could. I found that if I have none or full enhancement I  do not have the problem, or have it so rarely that it is not an issues, where as if I have the middle/partial enhancement it happens every other minute...

---

### Post by maze1612 on 2008-12-07
I'm having the same problem.  A little over a year ago I melted my graphics card and had to switch to an older one, a lot older, not powerful enough for windows.  So I switched to ubuntu. 7.04 at the time.  It locked up a lot but 7.10 was about to come out so i dealt with it.  7.10 didn't lock up as often, once a day or so, after about 50 tutorials I found out turning compiz off (i had very little of it on) made it freeze every other day with a periodic logout once every few days.  8.04 came with very little improvement to this. A couple months ago I switched to 8.10 and still saw no improvement.  This whole time i've been attributing it to the fact that the graphics card was pulled out of a pile of spare parts.

Last week I got a brand new Radeon Sapphire HD 3850.  Sweet graphics.  Restricted drivers picked it right up and all the updates installed with no problems.  Compiz ran like a dream but the lockups kicked up back to the point I was at over a year ago with 7.04............  Massive pain.  So, here's the situation.  Compiz is completely off and uninstalled.  I have a 64bit amd processor running ubuntu 8.10 with all the updates.  Lockups are completely random, sometimes when just firefox is running, sometimes when just the screen saver is running, sometimes when just gedit is running.  Random logout is even weirder because it starts popping up messages about the power sessions backend starting or some crap like that.  very odd.  anyway i'm currently downloading kubuntu but i prefer gnome so when someone comes up with a fix for this please... PLEASE let us know.

Maze

---

### Post by rooster_fruit on 2008-12-31
i can confirm this,

did the same upgrade on a laptop, seems to only logoff when data is being written/read (opening documents, update manager, etc)

---

### Post by acardh on 2009-02-06
I am running Ubuntu 8.04 in one desktop and usually I have those annoying random logouts. It seems a hard bug to find and fix.

---

### Post by why2jjj on 2009-02-24
This happens to me too, and I don't have much of a graphics card in my system.  I have a bare-bones Intel Quad Core 2 workstation, basic graphics card, no sound card running Ubuntu 8.10.  I have never experienced this issue on Ubuntu 8.04.

---

### Post by ngrieb on 2009-04-17
I'm getting the same thing...if I turn on desktop enhancements I get kicked more often. I just turned them off and it does not happen much if at all anymore. However, am trying to run Counter Strike on wine, and I get kicked to the login screen as soon as the main menu shows up. It is really starting to piss me off. I do get a Steam message telling me that my graphics card drivers should be updated and that Steam cannot find the NVidia drivers already installed. I know this has to be a graphics driver issue of some sort because when I first installed Ubuntu 8.10 I would get kicked almost every five minutes before installing NVidia drivers. Does anyone know how to get Steam to recognize the drivers or stop this problem in general in Ubuntu 8.10? 

Here some specs:
AMD Athlon 3000+
160 GB HD
1 GB PC2700 RAM
NVidia MX4 (128 integrated GPU, drivers NVidia_driver_96.11?)
DLink DWL 510 G Rev. B ( which causes other fun problems yet to be fixed)

---

### Post by octaviomagana on 2009-04-18
I turned off lacpi in Grub, "nolacpi", do you think this would be related?

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2009-04-18
logoff as in closing gnome session and returning to login screen?

if so, then probably xserver crashes (most probably due to shoddy drivers) and restarts itself. Enabled compiz increases the risk because gfx card actually accelerates things and bad situations happen more frequently.

---

