---
title: "32 bit 11.10 not working on 64 bit processor"
date: 2013-02-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ryan27968 on 2013-02-07
I recently bought a acer aspire 5733 laptop and installed ubuntu on it. i partitioned it with ~140 gb for windows 7 home basic 64 bit, and ~360 gb for ubuntu 11.10 32 bit. the partitioner took a very long time to partition but did finish eventually.  now it boots up fine and logs in, but there are no menu bars, no sidebars for apps, it is just the desktop. i can shutdown if i press the power button and when i first log it it does alert me to wifi networks, so it mainy works, except there are no menu bars. i am currently downloading ubuntu 12.10 64 bit but the internet is very slow here in south africa, so any ideas in the mean time?:confused: btw i installed it in oracle virtual box under windows and it works like a dream :-) but i want to be able to run it natively for speed and drive space reasons.

---

### Post by ryan27968 on 2013-02-08
ok, i downloaded and installed 12.10 64 bit and it runs like a star :KS. i think it was not working properly before because it was 32 bit and i have 6 gb of ram.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-02-08
> **ryan27968 said:**
> ok, i downloaded and installed 12.10 64 bit and it runs like a star :KS. i think it was not working properly before because it was 32 bit and i have 6 gb of ram.

It was probably because your computer was designed after the distros you were trying. Ubuntu didn't know how to use the graphics card in the newer computer. 12.10 can deal with it because it is newer than the computer model.

---

