---
title: "11.10 changed my display settings..."
date: 2011-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Topher88 on 2011-10-16
Hi.

I've upgraded to eneiric on two computers.  The first one, everything seemed fine, although I found it odd that it changed my background, but I didn't think to much on it.

On the second computer, however - the one I'm on now and the one I use as my primary computer - I ran into some issues.  First off, when it was aobut 85% done with the install, it told me that Nautilus Dropbox couldn't install and the whole upgrade had to abort.  Seemed a little unnecessary for one botched install...  but whatever.

So then, when I restart and log in, I find that it once again changed my wallpaper, AND my color scheme.  Basically, what it looks like it's done is reverted back to the wallpaper and scheme I had the last time I upgraded (to Natty).

So now, I can't quite figure out how to get my window colors to the default setting - right now they're dark blue, and they look awful but I can't for the life of me figure out how to change them.  Also, the buttons and the words on them are both very light colors, so I can hardly read them..  If I go to system settings, display, and then choose ambiance or radiance, it only changes the color of the top of the window but not the whole thing.

Also, for some reason I have two system settings icons, and they both open two completely different things...  I have no idea what's up with that.

Any help would be appreciated, thanks.

---

### Post by Topher88 on 2011-10-16
Any ideas?

---

### Post by Topher88 on 2011-10-16
I've attached an image that illustrates what I'm referring to.

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=204551&stc=1&d=1318798561[/IMG]

Notice how the top of the window is dark gray (Ambiance), but the rest is dark blue.  How do I change the blue part?  And the selection color is that yellow color...  Also, notice how you can hardly read what the buttons say.  I've been messing with this all day and I can't find a way to get it to the "default" color.  I didn't have this problem on the first computer I installed it on.

I've (obviously) been trying to just change the themes, but nothing changes the colors - only the look.  This is going to drive me crazy!  There's got to be something I can do!

I might try looking for some themes on the net in hopes that they'll do what I want, but I'm feeling a bit apprehensive about that...  We'll see.

If you have any ideas at all, please share..

thanks

EDIT:  I downloaded a custom GTK theme from gnome-look, and that helped with about 90% of the problem, however...  The dark blue is still present in some areas, and so is that nasty yellow...  Particularly in Chrome.

There's no way a fix to this problem should be this complicated...  All I want to do is, at the very least, get it to look how it would look if this was a fresh install of Ubuntu.

---

