---
title: "Ub 9.04 OS with XP boot within"
date: 2009-09-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sloxp on 2009-09-03
I think I would like to install U 9.04 as my primary OS and be able to boot XP from within U 9.04.  Is this a reasonable proposal?

I have a friend who has set up his laptop in this manner.

---

### Post by GoldenSun on 2009-09-03
I always install windows, then ubuntu so I don't have to get grub back.

[http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/ubuntu/reinstall-ubuntu-grub-bootloader-after-windows-wipes-it-out/](http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/ubuntu/reinstall-ubuntu-grub-bootloader-after-windows-wipes-it-out/)

When you install windows,  it will ask you to make a partition.  Then it will install on that partition.  It will also erase grub and put it's proprietary crap on there.  So refer to the link I posted to get it back.  Then next time you boot it will give you an option to either boot into ubuntu or windows.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-03
sure, you can do that with a virtual machine, like VirtualBox.

Be aware however, that the Xp you boot from within ubuntu, will be crippled in some regards, most notably: no accelerated 3D (so dont expect to play a lot of games on it).

Other than that,  assuming your machine is capable enough (1+ GB Ram at least) then it works just fine.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-03
> **GoldenSun said:**
> I always install windows, then ubuntu so I don't have to get grub back.

Heh, I read his question as booting XP inside Ubuntu (so, using a VM), not a dualboot.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-09-03
I have 4gb of RAM in my system and I often run Windows 7 RC + XP Pro + Ubuntu Karmic in a virtual machine at the same time on top of Ubuntu Jaunty with no issues. Virtualbox is a pretty darn nice product!

---

### Post by GoldenSun on 2009-09-03
> **P4man said:**
> Heh, I read his question as booting XP inside Ubuntu (so, using a VM), not a dualboot.

I think I may have mis read his question.  
In that case, I vouch for virtual box.  I would get a tiny xp so it's low on resources.  Get the closed edition so you have usb support and some hardware acceleration.

---

