---
title: "[SOLVED] How do I configure/assign a printer in Qcad &amp;quot;Setup Printer&amp;quot;"
date: 2008-12-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SteveDee on 2008-12-27
I'm using Qcad under Intrepid but cannot print to my printer.

The "Setup printer" screen does not list any printers, and I cannot see any obvious way to assign or add a printer to this empty table of printers.

Printing is not a general problem for me, as I can print in all other apps and I can export a Qcad drawing to a graphic file then print.

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2008-12-28
The solution is to create a soft link as follows:-

sudo ln -s /var/run/cups/printcap /etc/printcap

QCad will now list your system printers.

---

### Post by karunakaran mauthai on 2009-05-16
> **SteveDee said:**
> The solution is to create a soft link as follows:-

sudo ln -s /var/run/cups/printcap /etc/printcap

QCad will now list your system printers.

I am using HP Deskjet 3320.

Even after executing this command in terminal, printer is not identified in QCad. (It works in other packages like OpenOffice)[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon9.gif[/IMG]

---

### Post by SteveDee on 2009-05-16
> **karunakaran mauthai said:**
> I am using HP Deskjet 3320.

Even after executing this command in terminal, printer is not identified in QCad. (It works in other packages like OpenOffice)[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon9.gif[/IMG]

I'm surprised you needed to create a soft link for OpenOffice. I had assumed that I needed to do this for Qcad, because the app was looking in the wrong place for the Printer Compatibility Database (printcap).

My printcap (generated automatically by cups) contains the following:-

# This file was automatically generated by cupsd(8) from the
# /etc/cups/printers.conf file.  All changes to this file
# will be lost.
iP1800-series|Our Printer:rm=printer-desktop:rp=iP1800-series:

...does your file look like this but listing your printer?

Trying searching the net for "printcap"

---

