---
title: "4.5TB partitioning"
date: 2010-03-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chris2100 on 2010-03-22
I'm having an issue partitioning a 4.5TB Raid 5 array.  I have a usb drive enclosure with (4) 1.5TB drives configured in RAID 5.  That all seems fine but when I try to partition it I run into major issues.  I tried in Ubuntu 8.04 first and it couldnt even get into fdisk to parition the thing.  So then I tried 9.10.  I could then go in and start creating partitions.  However, It seems like it only wants to let me use about 2TB or so of the drive.  I want to divide it into (3) 1.5TB partitions.  I guess before I get into the nitty gritty about exactly how I've tried to partition things I should ask: Is there a limit to the drive size that you can use in Ubuntu?  I've done some research on got mixed results.

Thanks

Chris

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2010-03-22
You're running into the limits of the Master Boot Record (MBR) partitioning system, which uses 32-bit pointers for the start sector and length of each partition. Given the standard 512-byte sector size, 32-bit pointers translates to a 2 TiB limit. AFAIK, the only viable alternative is the GUID Partition Table (GPT) partitioning system, which uses 64-bit pointers. Fortunately, Linux (including Ubuntu) supports GPT, so you should be fine. (Note that MBR is used by most x86 and x86-64 OSes; the MBR limits aren't unique to Linux. GPT is also cross-platform, although it's not yet in wide use except on Macintoshes.) You'll just need to do a few things....

First, you need to use GPT-aware partitioning software. The standard Linux fdisk won't do; you'll need to use either a libparted-based tool (GNU Parted or GParted, for instance) or my fdisk-like [GPT fdisk.](http://www.rodsbooks.com/gdisk/) If you use a libparted-based tool, you'll need to tell it explicitly to create a GPT disklabel. GPT fdisk is designed for this task, so that's what it does by default.

Second, you may want to review partition alignment issues for your RAID array. I've got some information on that topic on [this page of mine.](http://www.rodsbooks.com/gdisk/advice.html) You can find more elsewhere. The latest version of GPT fdisk (0.6.6) will automatically create partitions that are suitably aligned if you use it on a blank disk. I don't believe the versions of libparted-based tools that are commonly available will yet do so, although I've not checked the very latest versions.

Finally, it's desirable, but not strictly necessary, to create a BIOS Boot Partition on any computer that uses a BIOS and GPT. GRUB 2 uses this partition to store some of its code. Don't worry about creating a filesystem on it. It can be quite small; even just ~30 KiB, although making it bigger won't hurt, and if you use the default alignment of GPT fdisk, it'll be 1 MiB or a multiple of that size. I believe you create a BIOS Boot Partition in libparted-based tools by setting a particular "flag." In GPT fdisk, you set a partition type code of EF02.

---

### Post by mk4umha on 2011-06-23
Thanks for this post! I was trying to understand how to partition a 4.5TB drive to work with windows.

---

### Post by Gyokuro on 2011-06-23
As srs5694 has already noted you should use a GPT partition scheme and Windows supports it starting with Windows Vista upwards. Search for Windows and GPT FAQ on MSDN.

HTH

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-06-23
Microsoft's got a [GPT FAQ](http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/hardware/gg463525.aspx) that describes their own specific issues. The biggest problem with Windows and GPT, assuming you're using Vista or later, is that the OS won't boot from GPT except on UEFI-based computers. Thus, you'll probably need a smaller disk to serve as your boot disk. Many of the most recent motherboards do support a UEFI boot mode, though, so you might be fine with an all-GPT system if you've got a recent motherboard. If you're really desperate, you can try [using UEFI DUET](http://www.rodsbooks.com/bios2uefi/) to make a BIOS-based computer look like a UEFI computer for Windows. UEFI DUET is definitely "bleeding-edge" technology, though, and I have no idea how it would work with a RAID array (my guess is not well).

---

