---
title: "8.04.1: Screensaver/Power Saving Crash after kernel upgrade to 2.6.24-23-generic"
date: 2009-01-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by StewartM on 2009-01-10
Hello all,

This morning I had something weird happen which had not happened before: I left my Zareason 2440 desktop (3.0 GHz processor, 3 G of RAM) on all night, running a screensaver from my /Pictures folder. I have the power management set so that it turns off the monitor after 50 minutes. That had always performed flawlessly.

Yesterday I upgraded the kernel to 2.6.24-23-generic. When I got up this morning, I found the screen unresponsive to keyboard and/or mouse input. A control-alt-backspace probably would have given me back the screen login.  Unfortunately, I did it ctr-alt-backspace twice in a row, I started to see the login screen and then it too crashed, so that was probably my fault. In the end, I had to do a hard reboot to get my system back.

As I have never seen this behavior before, I figured I'd throw my experience out here on the forums to see if anyone else had experienced this or anything like it. I'll post a follow-up if it recurs. If it did recur, it's probably a bug in either the screensaver or the monitor power management feature, and a bug report should be filed.

StewartM

---

### Post by StewartM on 2009-01-20
Well, it never has reoccurred after a week, the problem has not replicated itself, and no one else has experienced it (apparently). So it might have been a hardware/electronic glitch.

I'm leaving this thread "open" in case it recurs for now.

StewartM

---

