---
title: "Java add-in to Firefox has warning"
date: 2010-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by parl8256 on 2010-12-28
When I try to add the Java add-in to Firefox in Ubuntu 10.04, I receive a warning that the next time the computer boots it will remove this add-in. It wasn't critical, so I abandoned the effort but I'd like to know what's up.

I set up an Ubuntu laptop for my sister w/ 10.04 LTS, so she'll have support for a long time. She's going to use it primarily to play interactive games on the Washington Post web site, browse the internet, and play DVDs. It also has OO.o which she might use a little bit.

Each interactive game on their site requires a different add-in (!) and the crossword puzzle requires Java (not JavaScript). But when I tried to add it I got an error message. (speculation) Has Oracle's purchase of Sun resulted in a dispute with Open Source uses of Java?

My sister took the laptop to LA this week, so I no longer have access to the computer to write down the error message. I have checked with some earlier releases of Ubuntu I have here at home (9.04 & 8.04 LTS) and the Java add-in works just fine. I haven't tried 10.10, however.

I think this is an Ubuntu issue, rather than a FireFox issue, as the error message I received was generated by Ubuntu, not FireFox.

---

### Post by pricetech on 2010-12-28
What Java add on did you install ??

Did you enable partner repos and install Java from Sun ??

In Synaptic, search for "sun-java6-plugin" best I recall.

Never had a problem when I installed that way.

---

### Post by parl8256 on 2010-12-28
Unfortunately this is from memory, but yes, the Java add-in would have been from Sun. It was an add-in to FireFox rather than the stand alone Java  Virtual Machine. I didn't check to see if the JVM had been installed or not and, as I said, I don't currently have access to the machine to check. What version of Ubuntu are you running? I installed 10.4 LTS on the laptop I got for my sister, so whatever it installs got installed.

As I recall, when I went to install the add-in for Java from Sun, several versions were available and I chose the one with the largest number, presumably the most recent. When I went to proceed, that's when I got the warning message. Sun is no longer and independent company, so that's why I asked. The other add-ins for FF installed w/o any problem.

Has anyone tried to load the Java add-in to FireFox in 10.4 LTS?

---

