---
title: "20.04 randomly freezes, how can I figure out what is wrong?"
date: 2020-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jrsv on 2020-07-27
Hello Forum,

I have recently done a clean install of Ubuntu 20.04 in my 2013 imac in which I have already been running Linux for a couple of years. I mainly work with audio and I am experiencing an annoying situation where the computer just freezes and only a hard turn off works by holding down the power button. Mouse doesn't move, audio stops and the computer becomes forever unresponsive. The main problem is that it does not create a crash report so I have no idea how to begin to inspect this issue. How would I check what's wrong, or setup some sort of log system to find out what causes this. As far as I know, a "crash" report is not being generated in this particular situation. Haven't found anything online referring to this issue.

please help

---

### Post by MgFrobozz on 2020-07-28
Same issue here, but with 
Ubuntu 18.04.4 LTS
Linux 4.15.0-112-generic #113-Ubuntu SMP Thu Jul 9 23:41:39 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux 

Mouse freezes and goes dark
No keyboard response
Can't ssh into system
System doesn't return pings

---

### Post by collisiondomain on 2020-07-29
This might happen when your system runs out of physical memory and has to resort to using a significant amount of swap space. One thing you could do would be to open your System Monitor, click on the Resources tab, and make sure it is visible at all times while you are using your computer; when the system freezes, what percentage of Memory and Swap is being used?

Another way to check whether the freezing has to do with memory usage is to press Ctrl-Alt-F1 when the freeze occurs. If doing that takes you to a command line (it might take a few seconds or even minutes), then it's probably because the programs you are using are overwhelming your system's memory resources.

---

### Post by MgFrobozz on 2020-07-29
You might check on your CPU temperature periodically, and set an alert limit on it (I use psensor). 

I had this kind of problem (sudden freeze with nothing in the log) a few summers ago when I was running multi-core transcodes on huge 1080i video files, and the fins on the CPU heat dissipator had gotten full of dust. In that case, remove the fan and use compressed air to clean the dissipator.

---

### Post by jrsv on 2020-07-29
computer seems fine in several ends, swap and all, but I know that there is something that I can't see, ctrl+alt+F1 does nothing. This is why it is so annoying, no helpful info is left behind after the incident.

---

### Post by jrsv on 2020-07-29
mine does not go dark, it is just stuck, freezes where ever you left it

---

