---
title: "(.10 on a904HD eeepc ! small issue."
date: 2009-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2009-11-06
Hi all

I got my numbers mixed up and installed 9.10 instead of 9.04. No great shakes as it seems to work very well and I only had to install eee-ctrl to get the 'silver' buttons working. Also I can now watch iplayer as it is now playing smoothly again. 8.10 was unwatchable and complained of bandwidth issues.

Any way the only issue I have. I changed from the default netbook remix desktop to a 'normal' desktop the same as I did with easypeasy and 8.10.
But if I right click the desktop to bring up the change background menu with the sub menus for changing the look of my desktop nothing happens.

Am I missing something?

Other than that I am very impressed so far.

regards

Fenris

---

### Post by undecim on 2009-11-06
The "Change Desktop Background" menu item isn't a submenu. Clicking it should bring up the appearance preferences dialog. If that doesn't work, try typing "gnome-appearance-properties" in a terminal, and post the output from that here.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-06
When you right-click the desktop and select "Change Desktop Background", does a dialog pop up?

If not, your configuration may be a bit hosed...

It could be permissions. This will fix that and is otherwise harmless:

Open a terminal window and enter 
```
sudo find .config .gconf* -type d -exec chmod 750 {} \; -exec chown $LOGNAME:$LOGNAME {} \;
sudo find .config .gconf* -type f -exec chmod 640 {} \; -exec chown $LOGNAME:$LOGNAME {} \;
```

Or it could just be corrupted settings, which can be tested via

```
mkdir dotbackup
mv .gconf* .config dotbackup
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

That will log you off. When you log in, ALL of your settings will have reverted to default. Try right-clicking the desktop. Same behavior?

You can restore your entire config via ```
rm -fr .gconf* .config
mv dotbackup/.* .
rmdir dotbackup
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
```

---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2009-11-06
Hi there

Just to clarify. Right clicking does not bring up the dialogue box where options for new folder, new launcher, new documents, arrange and at the bottom change background at all. using terminal brings up a the appearance menu though. So why no right click method of entry?

regards

Fenris

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-06
It's there by default. Something got rid of it.

You can add it back via System -> Preferences -> Nautilus Actions

Just add a new item and have it run 'gnome-appearance-properties'.

If you don't have that menu item, you can install it via ```
sudo apt-get install nautilus-actions
```

---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2009-11-06
Hi there

Well none of the above worked to bring about the 'normal' right click menu on the desktop.

I am getting some sort of error message when I use terminal to run (gnome-appearance-properties).

the window comes up but the error in terminal reads

(gnome-appearance-properties:1862): Gdk-CRITICAL **: gdk_display_sync: assertion 'GDK_IS_DISPLAY (display)' failed

I can change my themes etc so it's just getting the right click menu to work.

OK I am a slight numpty. I have the 'appearance' icon in my sys' -> pref' -> menu list. So it is just a case of the right click being off..........I shall check the mouse settings as I have a vague recall of being able to selevt the button action??

regards

Fenris

---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2009-11-07
OK then a little more prodding at the 'problem'. Basically I have a desktop which can't be used. IE no folders, no shortcuts can be added to to the desktop.

But if I use terminal and use;

mkdir /folder

or some such command to create a folder on the desktop although it doesn't appear on the desktop anything I add to the desktop can be found in the folder called desktop.

I use SSH a lot to stream music from my primary PC to my eeepc. The folder usually sits on the desktop. This also does not show up on the desktop as it did under 8.10.

I just tried conky as well. It's running but it's window doesn't appear on the desktop.

I can only guess that Karmic is running it's GUI as if the original configuration of the netbook remix of the GUI is still running. What can I do to get a 'normal' desktop up?

regards

Fenris

---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2009-11-20
Well I still don't know how to get to a fully functional 'standard' desktop but I don't actually care =D . The UNR interface is pretty bloody good on my 904HD. Fast, fully functional and just plain fun! 9.10 has been faultless so far.

regards

Fenris

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-20
can you open```
 gconf-editor
``` and browse to apps > nautilus > preferences > show_desktop

Make sure its enabled. I can imagine the NBR interface disables it.

---

