---
title: "6.10 can't recognize A: drive"
date: 2007-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by theRevMom on 2007-05-30
I'm running 6.10.  I've never had reason to use the A: drive until this week.  And I can't get it to recognize it.  

Dell 0ptiplex GX 260 with 512 mb Ram

Anyone?

---

### Post by eggdeng on 2007-05-30
Have you tried to mount the drive? 
Run ```
ls /media
``` to see if you have a folder called floppy or floppy0. If not, create one with ```
sudo mkdir /media/floppy
```
Then run ```
sudo mount /dev/fd0 /media/floppy
```

---

### Post by Frederick J. Harris on 2007-05-30
This post just really helped me!  Thanks!  

My floppy is now mounted and I'm seeing its contents with Thunar File Manager in Xubuntu 6.1.  How do I unmount it now.  I just installed Xubuntu on an old laptop of mine I still like a lot and use, and I'm not too familiar with Xubuntu.  Not that I'm terribly familiar with Ubuntu, but my floppy shows up as an icon or shortcut on my Ubuntu's desktop and I right click on it and choose 'Eject' to un-mount it.  What do you do in Xubuntu.  For that matter, I can't seem to figure out how to get a shortcut on my Xubuntu's desktop either?

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2007-05-30
If you put a diskette in the drive and then you click on it what happens / what message(s) do you get ?

---

### Post by Frederick J. Harris on 2007-05-30
Well, when I put a disk in the drive I could hear by the whirring of the computer's hard disk that some process started to run.  But it finally finished and nothing happened, no icon for floppy on desktop or anything like that.  So I opened up Thunar File Manager and checked in /media and found floppy and floppy0.  When I clicked on either of them nothing happened.  Boy, that depressed me.  This old computer only has one USB port and the mouse is plugged into that.  Doesn't seem to auto-detect a serial mouse.  So I figured I'm dead if I can't get it to read a floppy.  Then I came here, found the post from EGGDENG, and life is good again.

---

### Post by eggdeng on 2007-05-30
To unmount
```
sudo umount /dev/fd0
```
Glad I was able to help.

---

### Post by theRevMom on 2007-05-30
Following your instructions, here's the results:

carly@carly-kitchen:~$ ls /media
cdrom  cdrom0  floppy  floppy0
carly@carly-kitchen:~$ sudo mount /dev/fd0 /media/floppy
Password:
mount: /dev/fd0 is not a valid block device

It's over my head, but it sounds like it's not finding the floppy drive?

---

### Post by theRevMom on 2007-05-30
Okay, so I put a floppy disk IN the drive, and it now works.... thank you!

:)

Question:  Will I have to Mount it every time I put in a floppy, or will it find it on its own now?

(See, I Told you I'm really wet behind the ears!!)

---

### Post by eggdeng on 2007-06-02
Sorry for taking so long to get back.I didn't have access to a box with a floppy drive to be able to check my facts so I was sort of hoping someone else would help out. 
If you go to the Places menu and click on the computer icon, you should get a window with an icon for each of the available drives. Just click on the drive to mount it. To unmount Right click and then Unmount volume.
If you can't see an icon for the floppy, you will need to edit a configuration file. Post again if you need help with that.

---

