---
title: "graphics problem with 2.6.31.17"
date: 2009-12-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
I just ran the update and now I have 2.6.31.17. I am having a problem with the graphics, and get these screens.  I do not know what to do to fix this.  Please see these screen shots. Thanks for the help.

[ATTACH]139456[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]139457[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-12-11
did you try running:

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

then logging out and back in again?

---

### Post by Leppie on 2009-12-11
Did you run the nvidia-xconfig tool as per your 1st screenshot?
```
$sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
Yes I ran this and it was no help.

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
This is what the driver screen looks like.


[ATTACH]139462[/ATTACH]

2.6.31.16 runs just fine.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-11
What does your /etc/X11/xorg.conf look like?

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
It looks like this.


[ATTACH]139463[/ATTACH]


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
	Driver	"nvidia"
EndSection

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-11
According to that file you are indeed running the correct driver option.  Have you installed the driver in System>Admin>Hardware Drivers?

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
> **RedSingularity said:**
> According to that file you are indeed running the correct driver option.  Have you installed the driver in System>Admin>Hardware Drivers?


This is what it shows.


[ATTACH]139466[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-11
Hmmm that is a rather old version.......do you know how to use PPA's to install packages?

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
yes

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-11
[Here](https://launchpad.net/~nvidia-vdpau/+archive/ppa) is a good ppa for karmic that will upgrade you to version 190.  Try it out/

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
I added the ppa and the key but I am not sure what packages to add.  If I install this driver could I screw up my system and not be able to start up.  I remember something like this happening before.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-11
If you do a system update do you see an update for nvidia drivers?

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
I did sudo apt-get update, sudo apt-get upgrade, and update-manager -d.

The Hardware Driver setting under system/administration is still showing the 173 driver as active but not in use.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-11
Do this to make sure it is installed......

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-190

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
I put the old driver on my system and it is working fine now. I guess 2.6.31.17 does not like the 173 driver, I guess I will leave it like this for a while and try the 173 driver in the future,  Thanks for your help. I just can not run
 on the Extra effects setting.

If I install the 190 driver can this mess up my system?


[ATTACH]139487[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-11
Looks like the 190 driver is on the system.


[ATTACH]139490[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-12
Yeah thats the one you want.  Can you open the nvidia settings now?

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-12
Is this what you mean.

[ATTACH]139561[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-12
Yeah thats it.......it seems you are running the 96 driver.  If you want to try the 190 just do 

sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-190

If that doesnt work for you just go back to the 96 version.

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-12-13
I am running this old Nvidia 5200 pci graphics card and I think it is coming to an end of its usefullness, so I am going to order a newer card and see if this will bring this computer up a little. I am going to see how this works out before I just try to get by with a new driver on this old 5200 card.

Thanks for your help, I hope I can return the favour sometime.

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-12-13
Ohhh that is an old card........you are correct, those new drivers wont work with that older card.

---

