---
title: "10.04: high load average at idle"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mthome on 2010-05-05
Since upgrading from 9.10 to 10.04, my system is noticeably less responsive and exhibits halting behavior for at times 10s of seconds.  There is nothing obvious in the various logs that I can find.  The only objective indication I can find that demonstrates that something is seriously wrong is that my load average **never** drops below 0.5 and is often over 1.5, even at idle. In this situation, top/ps/whatever shows very few processes running (usually just top).  This suggests to me that either the new kernel scheduler is horrible or that something new is resulting in blocking I/O or other uninterruptable sleeps.

Typical top output:
> [FONT="Courier New"]top - 12:18:01 up 1 day, 49 min,  5 users,  load average: 1.42, 0.86, 0.71
Tasks: 262 total,   1 running, 261 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s):  0.9%us,  0.8%sy,  0.0%ni, 97.6%id,  0.0%wa,  0.0%hi,  0.7%si,  0.0%st
Mem:   8194400k total,  6852456k used,  1341944k free,   729512k buffers
Swap:  9936160k total,        0k used,  9936160k free,  3258392k cached

  PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND                                                                                                                               
 5957 mthome    20   0 1058m 293m  39m S    3  3.7  17:20.73 firefox-bin                                                                                                                           
   10 root      20   0     0    0    0 S    2  0.0  12:09.05 ksoftirqd/2                                                                                                                           
    7 root      20   0     0    0    0 S    1  0.0  11:01.10 ksoftirqd/1                                                                                                                           
 1343 root      20   0  166m  74m  22m S    1  0.9  37:20.27 Xorg                                                                                                                                  
 2364 mthome    20   0 19348 1528 1052 R    1  0.0   0:00.25 top                                                                                                                                   
   13 root      20   0     0    0    0 S    0  0.0  13:02.04 ksoftirqd/3                                                                                                                           
   74 root      20   0     0    0    0 S    0  0.0   2:36.92 kondemand/2                                                                                                                           
 2280 mthome    20   0 1021m  52m  25m S    0  0.7   1:09.97 pidgin                                                                                                                                
 2286 mthome    20   0  313m  67m  23m S    0  0.8  17:41.96 compiz                                                                                                                                
 2287 root      20   0 16896  740  508 S    0  0.0   0:12.93 dovecot [/FONT]
Can anyone suggest anything to help me debug this?

Thanks

---

### Post by mbradlcu on 2010-05-05
I'd try looking at the load avg when an xsession isn't running. If it looks better then I'd try starting individual programs through a xterm session. Quick guess however is the Tracker daemon is indexing..



> **mthome said:**
> Since upgrading from 9.10 to 10.04, my system is noticeably less responsive and exhibits halting behavior for at times 10s of seconds.  There is nothing obvious in the various logs that I can find.  The only objective indication I can find that demonstrates that something is seriously wrong is that my load average **never** drops below 0.5 and is often over 1.5, even at idle. In this situation, top/ps/whatever shows very few processes running (usually just top).  This suggests to me that either the new kernel scheduler is horrible or that something new is resulting in blocking I/O or other uninterruptable sleeps.

Typical top output:

Can anyone suggest anything to help me debug this?

Thanks

---

### Post by mthome on 2010-05-05
No significant disk i/o in either case and I disabled tracker and similar ilk some time ago.  There's some evidence that this is a kernel issue. I see surprisingly high ksoftirqd times - Nearly an hour of CPU time in 24 hours.

---

### Post by mthome on 2010-05-10
Still not thrilled and it still feels less responsive than 9.10, but the RT kernel helps a lot.  The ksoftirqds are back down where they belong and loadaverage runs around .20 at idle (+top).

---

### Post by loefaas on 2010-05-12
I have exactly the same problem, but it appears randomly it is not always like so. Anyone have any clues?

```

top - 12:14:06 up  3:24,  3 users,  load average: 1.17, 1.21, 1.03
Tasks: 201 total,   1 running, 200 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
Cpu(s): 13.9%us, 11.8%sy,  0.2%ni, 73.3%id,  0.0%wa,  0.8%hi,  0.0%si,  0.0%st
Mem:   4009668k total,  3907020k used,   102648k free,    41808k buffers
Swap:  3534260k total,    19964k used,  3514296k free,  2814808k cached

  PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND            
 1144 root      20   0  191m  37m  17m S   18  1.0  19:22.10 Xorg               
 6086 lofas     20   0  873m  70m  20m S    9  1.8   0:29.10 chrome             
 1807 lofas      9 -11  272m 4708 3236 S    5  0.1   1:30.28 pulseaudio         
 1975 lofas     20   0  677m  77m  22m S    5  2.0   6:33.33 chrome             
 1798 lofas     20   0  358m  29m 5232 S    4  0.8   4:45.00 compiz             
 4421 lofas     20   0  219m  19m 8988 S    4  0.5   1:24.31 gnome-terminal     
 4028 lofas     20   0  238m  20m  11m S    3  0.5   9:00.42 npviewer.bin       
 2040 lofas     20   0  367m  17m 8100 S    1  0.4   2:19.66 empathy            
 6171 lofas     20   0 19216 1464 1052 R    1  0.0   0:03.00 top                
 4009 lofas     20   0 98284  14m 2232 S    1  0.4   0:36.92 desktopcouch-se    
 1797 lofas     20   0  521m  35m  16m S    0  0.9   0:26.70 nautilus        

```

---

### Post by loefaas on 2010-06-14
> **mthome said:**
> Still not thrilled and it still feels less responsive than 9.10, but the RT kernel helps a lot.  The ksoftirqds are back down where they belong and loadaverage runs around .20 at idle (+top).

This is definitely a kernel issue. It seems it has something to do with the load balancing for multi-cores. Running powertop shows way to high wakeups due to    
[kernel scheduler] Load balancing tick

Reverting back to the Karmic-kernel helped a lot, but still the wakeups due to load balancing is to high, but load average drop to under 0.1 at least.

---

### Post by ouafnico on 2010-07-13
I've got the same problem on my ubuntu-server (10.04), load average always between 1 and 2 with nothing working on it !

---

### Post by line72 on 2010-07-15
I also have this issue.  The load on my laptop stays high (around 1.5) and every once and a while will spike to > 10 and be completely unusable for several minutes.  This only started happening when running 10.04.  It happens very randomly, so I can't point to any one application causing this.

I also have ubuntu 10.04 on my workstation and I don't see this behavior.  However my workstation has two opteron cpus where as my laptop has a single dual core intel processor.

---

### Post by ouafnico on 2010-07-15
we must compare our kernels and version, I've got the bug on Ubuntu-server with 2.6.32-23-server 64bits

---

### Post by line72 on 2010-07-15
> **ouafnico said:**
> we must compare our kernels and version, I've got the bug on Ubuntu-server with 2.6.32-23-server 64bits

My laptop is running 

```
Linux memwd2 2.6.32-23-generic #37-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jun 11 07:54:58 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux
```

---

### Post by ouafnico on 2010-07-15
:s So it affects all 2.6.32-23 kernels.
Did someone try another revision af 2.6.32, like 2.6.32-22 ?

---

### Post by line72 on 2010-07-15
It might be related to [this bug]("https://bugs.edge.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/524281").

---

### Post by ouafnico on 2010-08-23
did someone have some news ? 
same bug with last kernel (2.6.32-24-server) :s

---

### Post by loefaas on 2010-08-24
> **ouafnico said:**
> did someone have some news ? 
same bug with last kernel (2.6.32-24-server) :s

Hopefully it will be resolved with 2.6.35 coming with 10.10. As far I understand it is unsolvable for 2.6.32. Until the new version is coming I am sticking with 2.6.31 (karmic kernel) working ok with lucid.

---

### Post by ouafnico on 2010-08-25
but what is gonna happen for lucid, which is the LTS, this bug can't be here 3 years ??

---

### Post by akitto69 on 2011-01-12
I have the same issue, my laptop (Toshiba L670) is responsive however it does bog down.

I am using 32bit ubuntu 10.10 

Linux LTHOKITTOA 2.6.35-24-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Thu Dec 2 01:41:57 UTC 2010 i686 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by theNthDoctor on 2011-01-29
For at least two weeks now, my computer has been batshart insane.  I just woke up to its load climbing toward 13.00.  Yes, woke up to.  Top shows no processes taking any significant amount of CPU.  Chrome's task manager shows nothing taking any significant amount of CPU.  Obviously my computer is haunted.

The fact that I can't detect the problem is making me very, very worried - as if I've been hacked and a lifetime of creative effort is being put at risk.

During these high load situations (which occur many times every day, whether the system is idle or not) the disk is always working amazingly hard - toward no job that I've given it.

Zilch of consequence in any of my system logs.  This is eating nearly an hour of my day as I wait for my CPU to "catch up to itself doing nothing."

I am fairly sure this has only happened while Chrome was running; and I had Chrome Beta installed. I've switched to stable and I am one prayin' atheist that this is the solution.

---

### Post by w2vy on 2011-01-31
I am running 10.10 and am also seeing high load while the cpu is mostly (>90%) idle.

I am running the latest kernel and released patches

```
Linux w2vy 2.6.35-25-generic #44-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 21 17:40:48 UTC 2011 i686 GNU/Linux

```

Since I am talking about 10.10 should I open a new thread?

My system is an amd64 w/2GB RAM, I did nothing special on install as I 
assume it is running 32bit.

I do have software RAID 1 but they are not showing up as highly active.

tom

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2011-01-31
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/checkbox/+bug/553328](https://bugs.launchpad.net/checkbox/+bug/553328)

may be relevant to some expoeriencing high loads. This bug means if you run sysinfo you get stuck with one of your processors running at 100% until next reboot; and I do mean reboot - logout and login won't stop it. If you don't reboot for a month you'll be running a processor at 100% for a month. This causes machines to run hot and shortens the life of hardware. It is a serious problem. 

The bug was first reported on April 8 2010. As merits such a serious issue, the bug was fixed very quickly and a fix was released 12 days later on April 20. The fix was then submitted to be backported into Lucid on June 10. However after review the backport was put on hold in July 8 apparently because of a documentation issue - lack of a properly written SRU. It was marked "Needs Fixing". No signs of activity since. 

[https://code.launchpad.net/~cr3/ubuntu/lucid/checkbox/0.9.2/+merge/28341]("https://code.launchpad.net/%7Ecr3/ubuntu/lucid/checkbox/0.9.2/+merge/28341")

So here we are in February 2011 and clicking  Applications > System tools > Sysinfo  in Lucid still leaves you with a processor permanently stuck on 100% until next reboot. I can't help but feel that there is some kind of moral or lesson to be learned from this saga. I'm not sure what that lesson is though.

---

### Post by w2vy on 2011-01-31
Well I am running 10.10 (maybe I should start a new thread)

---

### Post by fmr on 2011-02-02
Experiencing the exact same thing, running 10.10

High load which seems to come from disk-based tasks, however the CPU is mostly idle.  Updated to the latest kernel, and the problem persists.

```
Linux heisan 2.6.35-25-server #44-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 21 19:09:14 UTC 2011 x86_64 GNU/Linux

```

---

### Post by loefaas on 2011-02-02
> **fmr said:**
> Experiencing the exact same thing, running 10.10

High load which seems to come from disk-based tasks, however the CPU is mostly idle.  Updated to the latest kernel, and the problem persists.

```
Linux heisan 2.6.35-25-server #44-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 21 19:09:14 UTC 2011 x86_64 GNU/Linux

```

Yes, I am also thinking this is a more filesystem problem than kernel. I first encountered the problem when I did a clean install with ext4 instead of ext3, so maybe there are some bugs in ext4 still?

---

### Post by fmr on 2011-02-02
> **loefaas said:**
> Yes, I am also thinking this is a more filesystem problem than kernel. I first encountered the problem when I did a clean install with ext4 instead of ext3, so maybe there are some bugs in ext4 still?

A reboot seems to fix the problem temporarily.  I'm using the server mainly for mail and backups (zip- and rsync-commands).  After a reboot the zips and rsyncs are lightning fast, but after running several of them (multiple times) the system enters a state of "high iowait".  The load (as reported by uptime et al) is high (1-10) but the CPU-usage is generally low.  IOWAIT is oftn near 100% for long periods of time.

FWIW: 
```
the server is set up with 2 SATA barracuda green harddisk (2TB) set up as 2 volumes.
ext4 fs
1 GB RAM
Intel(R) Pentium(R) D CPU 2.80GHz
ubuntu 10.10
```

---

### Post by ToshibaLaptoplinux on 2011-04-18
It is very frustrating that this hasn't been resolved. I have the exact same behavior for EVERY kernel after 2.6.32-02063208. Anything after that exhibits high system loads that render my system unusable for often as long as 20 minutes at a time. It is just unacceptable that this hasn't been resolved after what, a year and a half?

---

### Post by ToshibaLaptoplinux on 2011-07-03
Although the spikes aren't as severe as in previous iterations of Ubuntu I am still having unreasonably high system loads in Natty. I guess a problem that renders ones system unusable for sometimes 10's of minutes at time isn't a priority for Ubuntu.

---

