---
title: "16.04 not prompting for updates on certain systems?"
date: 2016-07-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roasted on 2016-07-08
Hi friends. I'm working with two 16.04 systems. Both were 15.10 >> 16.04 upgrades. One is a laptop, one is a desktop.

With the desktop, I get a popup with update manager, telling me there's updates.
With the laptop, I get a notification (notify-send style bubble) telling me there's updates, but update manager does not automatically open.

Is this a setting somewhere I can control to make it do this behavior? With both systems previously on 15.10, both of them brought up the update manager. If it's a setting, I didn't set it, though I'd be curious to know.

Thanks for any insight!

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-07-09
The settings are in system settings>software & updates. But my guess is that the difference comes when we get a kernel upgrade that fixes some serious bug or a security vulnerability. But I have noticed a change in the way software updater works. It no longer splashes a window on top of whatever application we are using. It is more discreet. It puts its icon in the launcher. A much nice way of working.

Regards.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2016-07-09
> **grahammechanical said:**
> The settings are in system settings>software & updates. But my guess is that the difference comes when we get a kernel upgrade that fixes some serious bug or a security vulnerability. But I have noticed a change in the way software updater works. It no longer splashes a window on top of whatever application we are using. It is more discreet. It puts its icon in the launcher. A much nice way of working.

Regards.

On my laptop, I don't even get that. It just simply says updates are available in a notification bubble in the upper right. I have to manually open software updater to do anything as far as updates.

---

