---
title: "11.04 lost the Visual Effects tab &quot;Extras&quot;"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AllGamer on 2011-05-02
Does anyone know how to enable the Extra Visual Effects in 11.04? :confused:

you know in 10.10 after you install the video card drivers, and then go to the Visual Effects tab, you can enable the Extras, and then you get all those cool effects. :guitar:

How can I activate those again in the new 11.04?

Thanks :)

---

### Post by AllGamer on 2011-05-03
alo?

no one?

---

### Post by deltacomp on 2011-05-03
Hello, open the Compiz CSSM under the Applications, System Tools and reactivate all the themes you had enabled.

---

### Post by deltacomp on 2011-05-03
Also, are you using Unity? or have you selected the "classic ubuntu" theme? I think you can use both "unity" and still have the compiz running but I haven't tried it.

---

### Post by AllGamer on 2011-05-03
thank you, yes i'm using the new Unity mode

but has been having a hard time figuring out where they moved the special effect features from the "classic" desktop

---

### Post by AllGamer on 2011-05-03
ahh... i just figured the compiz was not installed by default, when i clicked on the icon it launched the ubuntu software center waiting for install

hope this help other people trying to figure out the same thing

---

### Post by CoreyB. on 2011-05-03
> **AllGamer said:**
> ahh... i just figured the compiz was not installed by default, when i clicked on the icon it launched the ubuntu software center waiting for install

hope this help other people trying to figure out the same thing

Compiz IS installed by default, it is what Unity runs on.

The Effects tab is not in 11.04.  You can install Compiz Config Settings Manager and enable certain plugins like wobbly windows and such if you want.

---

### Post by tjscool914 on 2011-05-04
I installed ccsm through synaptc and enabled wobbly windows, desktop cube, etc... but none of those features are working.  They are checked off but didnt take affect.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by AllGamer on 2011-05-04
> **tjscool914 said:**
> I installed ccsm through synaptc and enabled wobbly windows, desktop cube, etc... but none of those features are working.  They are checked off but didnt take affect.  Any ideas?

it works for me...

when you click on Enable Wobbly Windows, it will warn you that you need to disable Snapping Windows

if you let it disable the snapping window then it works right away

---

### Post by tjscool914 on 2011-05-04
I disabled the snapping window and closed ccsm... but none of the effects that i checked take effect.  If i open a terminal and rest unity i can get the wobbly windows to work but i have many other issues after that.  I can open ccsm and choose whatever options/effects i want, but they wont work unless im running unity.  how do i fix this?

---

### Post by tjscool914 on 2011-05-04
Anyone?

---

### Post by spyd3r on 2011-05-26
i'm having the exact same issues

---

### Post by macetouch on 2011-06-01
I am also having these troubles but im running classic

---

### Post by XDevHald on 2011-08-10
Same here running a integrated Nvidia card on an emachine with Ubuntu 11.04 Any way to get the visual effects working after enabling them?

---

