---
title: "gv/ghostscript ignoring &quot;pattern fill&quot; in a .eps generated by fig2dev (kubuntu lts)"
date: 2007-03-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aepfelx on 2007-03-16
I'm seeing odd behavior in gv/ghostview on an EPS file generated by xfig (or, from command line, fig2dev). The original .fig (p1sd.fig, attached) is a simple figure with a polygon with a "pattern" fill. Converting the .fig to .eps via "fig2dev -L eps p1sd.fig > p1sd.eps" yields a .eps that

- does have the pattern when printed via cups
- does have the pattern when converted to .pdf via imagemagick
- does _not_ have the pattern when viewed in gv (no matter what zoom)
- does _not_ have the pattern when converted to .pdf via ps2pdf (gs-common)

The fig2dev on my debian sarge box produces a .eps that shows up just fine both in the debian box's gv and the kubuntu box's gv. The .eps produced on the kubuntu box also yields the same problem in the debian box's gv.

This is presumably some problem with kubuntu's transfig, but this seems mysterious. Perhaps a missing dependency of some sort?

Also, kubuntu gv takes a good second+ to show the .eps (and various other very small postscript files) on an old-ish but not particularly ancient IBM Thinkpad (T23); much longer than it used to take when this machine was also running debian sarge.

Any suggestions?

kubuntu lts:
% gv --version
gv 3.6.1
% gs --version
8.15.2
% transfig -V
TransFig Version 3.2 Patchlevel 5-alpha7

debian sarge:
% gv --version
gv 3.6.1
% gs --version
8.01
% transfig -V
TransFig Version 3.2 Patchlevel 5-alpha5

(First-time ubuntu user here, as of 24 hours ago, after 7 yrs on other distros, so my apologies if this is in the wrong forum, or if I missed something "obvious".)

---

### Post by aepfelx on 2007-03-16
Turns out this is a **[known bug that got fixed 1:3.2.5-alpha7-2]("http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/t/transfig/transfig_3.2.5-alpha7-5/changelog")** in debian etch. So, what's the Kubuntu LTS stance on upstream non-security bugfixes?

---

