---
title: "9.04 GRUB menu question"
date: 2009-06-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-06-27
I am running three partitions. One for Windows XP, one for Jaunty 9.04, and another for a second Jaunty 9.04. 
I would like to hide one of the Jaunty 9.04 so it doesn't appear on the startup menu.
But I don't know how to do this and still be able to access it when I so desire.
That's the question. Can this be done? How?:confused:

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-06-27
I learned something while trying to experiment to answer your question. I edited grub and deleted the title of one of my grub entries: I left lines 2-4 of the entry as normal, but on the first line I left only a space after the "e" in *title*.

When I rebooted, nothing showed for that entry. When I hit ENTER on the empty line it booted the modified entry without problem.
Note: I had another entry following the empty title one. Initially I could not see it. When I toggled past the blank line, the next entry displayed for the first time and remained visible even if I returned the cursor back up.

So if I were going to set it up the way you want, I would first try putting Ubuntu #2 twice, the first with a blank title line and the second with the complete entry. I believe neither will show up until you move the cursor to the second one, at which point it will display. That way you can actually see the entry if you need to by moving down past the blank entry to the next one.

Of course, this could be something you want, since it appears you could modify any one entry to have a blank title and all the ones below would also be invisible until you toggled to them. At least that's how it worked on my computer.

Added: I tried to replicate it with a single "title " line instead of an actual full entry hoping subsequent entries would be hidden but that did not work.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-06-30
Thank you, drs305, for the reply.

My apologies for the late reply. 

O.K. I am going to try editing the GRUB menu title as you described. 
Probably won't be able to do this until tomorrow , but I will post back to show any results.):P

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-06-30
I didn't have to wait to try it.

And it worked beautifully.

I simply deleted the title of the menu option I wanted to hide, so it didn't show when GRUB loaded. But when I navigate down to where I know the title used to show up, and pressed enter the partition loaded, no pain, no strain.

Excellent solution, and I thank you very much.:guitar:

---

