---
title: "11.10 = PERFECT, 12.04 = EPIC Fail"
date: 2012-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by digitalpure on 2012-05-04
I am really at a loss here.  I SO SO badly want to keep using Ubuntu on my machine, but really want to move up to the LTS release.  I have been running xubuntu, and ubuntu since 6 and they have been fine.  I built a new machine about 2yrs ago, and 11.04, 11.10 have worked AWESOME.  For some reason 12.04 will not let me install, or use it even in live mode.  I have tried ACPI bypasses and everything that I know.

The issue with 12.04 is that as soon as the setup, or usage dialogue boxes come up (setup or live mode) then the display manager freezes.  I can still use the mouse (although VERY VERY slow) but the system is dead in the water.

I have tried alternate install methods, and they work until display manager loads and then boom it is dead.  The odd part is that all of this works PERFECT under 11.10 and NO hardware changes from 11.10 to 12.04 only ubuntu changed.

Here is my hardware specs: (nothing is on the DOES NOT WORK) from what I can see.

CPU
	AMD Phenom II X6 1100T
	Thuban 45nm Technology
RAM
	16.0 GB Dual-Channel DDR3 @ 608MHz (9-9-9-24)
Motherboard
	MSI 890GXM-G65 (MS-7642) (CPU1)	37 °C
Graphics
	VE248 (1920x1080@60Hz)
	VE248 (1920x1080@60Hz)
	1536MB GeForce GTX 580 (EVGA)	46 °C
Hard Drives
	234GB Corsair Force GT ATA Device (SATA)	28 °C
	977GB Western Digital WDC WD1002FAEX-00Z3A0 ATA Device (SATA)	30 °C
Optical Drives
	HL-DT-ST DVD-RAM GH22NP20 ATA Device
Audio
	USB Audio Device

Any help anyone may have I would greatly appreciate it.  This has been a real let down on this machine.  God note, my Sony Vaio that only partially worked on 11.10 is crystal on 12.04 so I know that progress is present.

Thanks in advance to everyone that looks, and has suggestions.

---

### Post by cmont899 on 2012-05-04
When the installer freezes is there anything of intrest in the other terminals? Try Alt-F2, Alt-F3, and Alt-F4 and see if any errors are logging.

How long are you waiting when the system locks up? I noticed the 12.04 installer taking a while at this stage. I ended up walking way and coming back after a while so I am not sure on an exact time.


From 11.10 are you able to run the following?:

```
sudo aptitude full-upgrade
```

---

### Post by digitalpure on 2012-05-04
I had left it for about an hour and it still was stuck.  I will test it again in about 2-3hrs and see if the terminal is showing any errors.

I cannot do a 11.10 -> 12.04 upgrade right now as I had to use the system and I put *shudder" windows on it (serious productivity hit).   I can always go back to 11.10 and just live with it if I have to.

I read a couple other threads of people having issues with the noveau drivers.  Maybe, I need to bump into recovery on boot and load the nvidia drivers. So much easier with Jockey, but I am willing to do it all command if I need to.

---

### Post by hal8000 on 2012-05-04
I have installed for the first time 64bit Ubuntu 12.04, hardware


Intel Core i5 750 CPU
Gigabyte GA-P55-UD3
ATI HD5770 PCi Express


Install was flawless and the ATI fglrx driver worked first time as well.
This is unusual, as normally I;d expect more trouble with ATI than Nvidia.

One other thing you can check is the Linux or Ubuntu HCL:

[http://linuxhcl.com/](http://linuxhcl.com/)

See if anyone else has issues with same hardware, hope that helps.

Once you get the 12.04 CD booting in live mode, hopefully install will
go smoothly also.

---

### Post by cmont899 on 2012-05-04
You may want to try the text based installer it you are having issues with the installer's video drivers:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/alternative-downloads](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/desktop/alternative-downloads)

---

### Post by digitalpure on 2012-05-05
Ok, so could not get into a terminal since it is clear that the system hard locks.

Finally got the system up with 12.04 by doing a pure 11.10 install, used Jockey to install the latest Nvidia drivers, rebooted confirmed it is working.  

Ran updates, and it appears that due to the upgrade it held the Nvidia drivers and all is working.  Display (system preferences) freaks out if you take sticky edges off, but that is fine.  I only want one unity bar on my dual 24" monitors.

Thanks to everyone for the suggestions, and help.

---

