---
title: ".desktop configuration"
date: 2010-02-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Catbodi on 2010-02-01
I know that every .desktop file comes into the Applications section but how can I find the .desktop file for a specific application?

---

### Post by blueshiftoverwatch on 2010-02-01
I'm not sure I follow. Do you mean you want to know where you can find files that start up applications so you can put them on your desktop as shortcuts? If yes, check */usr/bin*.

---

### Post by Catbodi on 2010-02-02
> **blueshiftoverwatch said:**
> I'm not sure I follow. Do you mean you want to know where you can find files that start up applications so you can put them on your desktop as shortcuts? If yes, check */usr/bin*.No  each application goes into the Applications section on Ubuntu which is in the Top Left Corner of the Screen. Say for example I want to move TweetDeck from Accessories to Internet all I need to find the .desktop for a application.

---

### Post by Seq on 2010-02-02
> **Catbodi said:**
> No  each application goes into the Applications section on Ubuntu which is in the Top Left Corner of the Screen. Say for example I want to move TweetDeck from Accessories to Internet all I need to find the .desktop for a application.

To do that, I'd recommend right-clicking the menu and selecting "Edit Menus". From there, drag TweetDeck to where you want it.

All .desktop files (well, the ones that show in that menu, at least) get put in "/usr/share/applications". You do not want to modify these as they will be replaced by updates. Instead, what normally happens is they get copied to your local applications director: "~/.local/share/applications", and modifications are applied there. So if you did want to do it manually, copy the appropriate .desktop file there.

The specific category it appears in is specified in that file. You can move it to "Internet" by changing the category to be like, for example, firefox.desktop:
```
Categories=Application;Network;
```

The main thing to remember is don't manually change stuff in /usr. It can be reset without warning.

---

### Post by kyphi on 2010-02-02
Changes to your Applications menu are made via System, Preferences, Main Menu.

There you can create a new menu and/or a new menu item.  You can also remove items from view by removing the tick or deleting them completely.

You can also drag and drop items from one section to another.

---

### Post by Catbodi on 2010-02-02
> **Seq said:**
> To do that, I'd recommend right-clicking the menu and selecting "Edit Menus". From there, drag TweetDeck to where you want it.

All .desktop files (well, the ones that show in that menu, at least) get put in "/usr/share/applications". You do not want to modify these as they will be replaced by updates. Instead, what normally happens is they get copied to your local applications director: "~/.local/share/applications", and modifications are applied there. So if you did want to do it manually, copy the appropriate .desktop file there.

The specific category it appears in is specified in that file. You can move it to "Internet" by changing the category to be like, for example, firefox.desktop:
```
Categories=Application;Network;
```The main thing to remember is don't manually change stuff in /usr. It can be reset without warning.Thank you so much you won't believe how much crap I went through editing .desktop files.

---

