---
title: "Bootmgr gone after Linux installs"
date: 2010-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Rhodderz on 2010-02-15
Hi i installed ubuntu 9.10(karmic) from a dic i downloaded and burned and it worked beautifully (except sis 671/771 but thats fixed) and i decided to go back on windows to do some college work and when i finally got windows onto grub 2 it came up
Bootmgr not found
CTRL+ALT+DEL to restart
Now i tried to fix this with 7 recovery disc(windows not detected and cmd wont "mount" any other drives apart from x) and tried o make a live windows usb all failed
so if anyone knows a solution please help
cheers.
P.S i can still access the partition that has windows installed.

Specs
Windows 7 Ultimate on Main partition
Ubuntu 9.10 on second partition

---

### Post by Rhodderz on 2010-02-17
Anyone with a solution will be appreciated thanks

---

### Post by michaert on 2010-02-17
Did you recently install Windows, or was Ubuntu installed after Windows?

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2010-02-17
Let's see whether "bootmgr" is really missing  or whether "grub" is mis-configured:

Follow these [instructions]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/") to run the boot info script and post the RESULTS.txt

---

### Post by Rhodderz on 2010-02-18
i installed linux after windows from the live cd and it isnt grubs ault because when i tell grub where windows is it is windows that tells me that bootmgr is missing but i will still do the test
**UPDATE**
                Boot Info Script 0.55    dated February 15th, 2010                    

============================= Boot Info Summary: ==============================

 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #3 for /boot/grub.

sda1: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       swap
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  

sda2: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ntfs
    Boot sector type:  Windows Vista/7
    Boot sector info:  No errors found in the Boot Parameter Block.
    Operating System:  Windows 7
    Boot files/dirs:   /Windows/System32/winload.exe

sda3: _________________________________________________________________________

    File system:       ext4
    Boot sector type:  -
    Boot sector info:  
    Operating System:  Ubuntu 9.10
    Boot files/dirs:   /boot/grub/grub.cfg /etc/fstab /boot/grub/core.img

=========================== Drive/Partition Info: =============================

Drive: sda ___________________ _____________________________________________________

Disk /dev/sda: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14593 cylinders, total 234441648 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0e9587e0

Partition  Boot         Start           End          Size  Id System

/dev/sda1    *          2,048       206,847       204,800  82 Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda2             206,848   213,958,655   213,751,808   7 HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3         213,969,735   234,436,544    20,466,810  83 Linux


blkid -c /dev/null: ____________________________________________________________

Device           UUID                                   TYPE       LABEL                         

/dev/sda1        dabd1aad-8367-4deb-a331-0650e3af7b35   swap                                     
/dev/sda2        16946D3D946D208B                       ntfs                                     
/dev/sda3        b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1   ext4                                     

============================ "mount | grep ^/dev  output: ===========================

Device           Mount_Point              Type       Options

/dev/sda3        /                        ext4       (rw,errors=remount-ro)


=========================== sda3/boot/grub/grub.cfg: ===========================

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s /boot/grub/grubenv ]; then
  have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
fi
insmod ext2
set root=(hd0,3)
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  set gfxmode=640x480
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
set menu_color_normal=white/black
set menu_color_highlight=black/white
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-19-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,3)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-19-generic root=UUID=b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-19-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-19-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,3)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-19-generic root=UUID=b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1 ro single 
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-19-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    set quiet=1
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,3)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1 ro   quiet splash
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
        recordfail=1
        if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi
    insmod ext2
    set root=(hd0,3)
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic root=UUID=b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1 ro single 
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/11_windows ###
menuentry "Windows7" {
set root=(sda2)
chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/11_windows ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin
}
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
    linux16    /boot/memtest86+.bin console=ttyS0,115200n8
}
### END /etc/grub.d/20_memtest86+ ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
if [ ${timeout} != -1 ]; then
  if keystatus; then
    if keystatus --shift; then
      set timeout=-1
    else
      set timeout=0
    fi
  else
    if sleep --interruptible 3 ; then
      set timeout=0
    fi
  fi
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

=============================== sda3/etc/fstab: ===============================

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# / was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=b9436a01-f731-469a-a8e8-c45970b58cc1 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=dabd1aad-8367-4deb-a331-0650e3af7b35 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0

=================== sda3: Location of files loaded by Grub: ===================


 112.2GB: boot/grub/core.img
 114.3GB: boot/grub/grub.cfg
 110.3GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-14-generic
 112.7GB: boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-19-generic
 111.9GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-14-generic
 112.4GB: boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-19-generic
 112.7GB: initrd.img
 110.3GB: initrd.img.old
 112.4GB: vmlinuz
 111.9GB: vmlinuz.old
=======Devices which don't seem to have a corresponding hard drive==============

sdb


okay thanks for that as i can now see linux detect windows 7 (unfortunatly the recov disc cant) so any help plz as this has confused me evan more now (isnt bootmgr a file if so cant i create a new one (sry nooby question))
i forgot to mention that in the windows 7 section i have edited it so it is hd0,0 or hd0,1 (cant remember)

---

### Post by meierfra. on 2010-02-18
> isnt grubs ault because when i tell grub where windows is it is windows that tells me that bootmgr is missing 
It still could have been Grub's fault, since Grub might be pointing to the wrong partition. Anyway in your case "bootmgr" is really missing.

> (isnt bootmgr a file if so cant i create a new one 
Yes, but you also are missing  /boot/bcd.  The easiest way to get those boot files back, is to run "Startup repair" from your Win 7 CD. 

But first put the boot flag on the Win 7 partition. 
That might help your Window 7 CD to detect Win 7.

In Ubuntu:

```
sudo sfdisk -A2 /dev/sda
```


Then boot from your Window 7 CD:

At the first screen select your favorite language.
At the second screen choose "Repair your Computer".

If a pop windows appears, offering  to repair a problem with the "Startup options",   click on "Repair and restart".

Otherwise, on the  next screen select  your operating system under "Use recovery tools ..."  and click on "Next".

Choose "Startup Repair" at the next screen.

"Startup Repair" tends to fix one problem at the time. So you might have to run "Startup Repair" several times.

This link contains picture of the various screens:  [http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/tutorials/tutorial148.html](http://www.bleepingcomputer.com/tutorials/tutorial148.html)


After running Startup Repair, boot into Ubuntu. Delete your "11_windows" file and run

```
 sudo update-grub
```

(creating a custom file for windows is almost always a waste of time. If update-grub cannot detect your Windows installation, then there is something wrong with Windows and your custom entry won't be able to boot it)

---

