---
title: "7.04 vs Vista"
date: 2008-11-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mr. Mangley on 2008-11-21
I'm a noob in Linux 7.04 and some of my professors are using Vista's DOCX file formats.
I keep getting error message that the associated helper application does not exist.
Seems to me that this version of Ubuntu doesn't know what Vista is and isn't familiar with its text file format.
What can I do? Will the old 7.04 take the new format or do I absolutely have to upgrade to see these files on my computer?
I'm not against upgrading, I just don't know when I'll get the time to do stuff like that between my classes and homework.

---

### Post by pennacook on 2008-11-21
I would suggest having your professors save the .docx in .doc format. I don't recall off hand if OpenOffice 3.0 handles .docx or not.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2008-11-21
> **Mr. Mangley said:**
> I'm a noob in Linux 7.04 and some of my professors are using Vista's DOCX file formats.

Those are in the contentious [Microsoft Office "Open" XML format]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OOXML"). I would definitely ask them to stop doing that. It's not even as if Windows-using students would be generally able to open them. .doc would be more widely usable, although ODF would be better for users of Free software.

As long as they aren't expecting you to send OOXML files back, I believe there are online converters that will let you read the contents of those documents.

---

### Post by Mr. Mangley on 2008-12-08
Thanks for the advice. I spoke with my professor and she says she's just using the campus computers, which our local IT insisted we get the new systems installed.
Is there a way the new stuff can save to older formats or does my professor need to use a different computer to save to a different file format?

---

### Post by HotShotDJ on 2008-12-08
1) Do not "have your professors" do anything.  They are the professors.  They get to tell YOU what formats to use, not the other way around. Trust me, you'll get talked about all over the department -- "can you BELIEVE that Johnny Undergraduate?  He told me not to use Word Docx."

2) OpenOffice 3 can import DOCX.  There is also a plugin for OpenOffice 2 that will both import AND export DOCX. See: [http://katana.oooninja.com/w/odf-converter-integrator](http://katana.oooninja.com/w/odf-converter-integrator)

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-12-08
Ubuntu 7.04 is no longer supported. Please upgrade to a version that is: Ubuntu 6.06, Ubuntu 7.10, Ubuntu 8.04 or Ubuntu 8.10.

---

