---
title: "How to get back NTFS drive Old Name in Ubuntu 9.10 in Dual Boot Computer"
date: 2010-02-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Richieto on 2010-02-04
Hi, as the title can be confusing i'll try to explain everything from the begining, 

I have a dual Boot computer Windows XP and Ubuntu 9.10 and my Hard Drive have 3 partitions
1 for Windows NTFS
1 for Data NTFS
1 for Ubuntu

Everything was great and this was the "way it was"

Data partition was "C: (Datos)"  (Datos was the partition name)
Windows partition was "F:Windows"

Then I reinstalled Windows for another issues (solved by the way)
And then this happened:


Data partition became "D: Data"
Windows partition became "C: Windows"

Somehow that affected my Configuration in Ubuntu, for those two drives anyway i can see both partitions now without a problem [SIZE="4"]BUT!!!!!!!![/SIZE]

All my programs in Ubuntu are looking for the /media/Datos which exist but everything is now in /media/Data

Things I've tried:

1.- Change in Windows the drive name from "Data" to "Datos"
R.- Ubuntu recognize "Datos" but still mount it in /media/Data

2.- Unmount drive, Erase /media/Data so i just have now /media/Datos
and when i was gonna mount from terminal to /media/Datos like this

$ sudo mount /dev/sda3 /media/D
( Then I press the Tab key and appears: )
Data    Datos/

even when i already erased the folder Data in nautilus

So, i didn't do it and that's why Im here:

1. The fact that "Data" still like an option makes me think that there is another place and another way that should be done and not how i am doing it now and I don't want to screw things up that's why I haven't try yet

2. Would this (If done) fix my problem and when i open my programs in Ubuntu everything would be back to normal cuz the path exist???

3. (If fixed) Would everything go back to normal with NTFS Configuration Tool, so I don't have to mount everytime i Log in

So please help me with my lack of Knowledge !!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-02-04
If your data partition is NTFS you can use the NTFS configuration tool and enter Datos as the mount point. That will make the actual mount point /media/Datos. A problem may be if the NTFS Configuration Tool provides a *second* listing for the same partition. If you use this tool, check to make sure only one entry exists in /etc/fstab for the data partition.

If you prefer, post the results of the following and we can help you sort things out:
```
sudo blkid -c /dev/null
fdisk -l
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by doas777 on 2010-02-04
yeah, what is in your /etc/fstab?
```
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by Richieto on 2010-02-04
$ sudo blkid -c /dev/null
/dev/sda1: UUID="CAC40C83C40C73CB" LABEL="Windows" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda3: UUID="96D04F16D04EFC4D" LABEL="Datos" TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="7fad264a-e323-4553-bd55-bef6dd09c96b" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda6: UUID="f759102c-bc4b-4a70-966b-9433ac89a667" TYPE="swap" 
$ fdisk -l
$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7fad264a-e323-4553-bd55-bef6dd09c96b / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=f759102c-bc4b-4a70-966b-9433ac89a667 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/Datos ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/Data ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
 
Yep, you are Right I can see the error now, i still don't know how to fix it thought, Can i just Edit the fstab file??? how should it be Done?

Thank you very much in advance :D

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-02-04
> **Richieto said:**
> 
Yep, you are Right I can see the error now, i still don't know how to fix it thought, Can i just Edit the fstab file??? how should it be Done?

Thank you very much in advance :D

To edit the fstab file:
```
gksu gedit /etc/fstab
```

Make the changes and save the file. Then run the following to unmount the non-system partitions. You will get some "busy" messages - that is ok. Then run the second command to mount the fstab entries:
```

sudo umount -a
sudo mount -a

```
If you don't get any error messages after running the second command the entries you made in fstab were accepted and the partitions are mounted in accordance with the fstab entries.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2010-02-04
I would just comment out the sda3 line in your fstab, and change the sda5 line to sda3, save and reboot.

you may be able to keep this problem from happening again, by using uuid's in your fstab rather than dev names (like sda3). just a thought

---

### Post by Richieto on 2010-02-04
Everything is back to Great 

Thank you Guys!!

---

