---
title: "nvidia hard and software advise please"
date: 2009-12-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2009-12-15
Hello folks.  I have been having some serious problems with my on board graphics card and drivers. The problems are with both resolution and refresh rate.  These are the specs of my system according to sysinfo.

System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 15/12/2009 19:02:38
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 8.04 (hardy) release.
	GNOME: 2.22.3 (Ubuntu 2008-07-09)
	Kernel version: 2.6.24-26-generic (#1 SMP Tue Dec 1 17:55:03 UTC 2009)
	GCC: 4.2.4 (x86_64-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: unknown (13 June 2008  01:10:57AM) (13 June 2008  01:10:57AM)
	Hostname: desktop
	Uptime: 0 days 0 h 12 min

CPU INFORMATION
	AuthenticAMD, AMD Athlon(tm) 64 X2 Dual Core Processor 4200+
	Number of CPUs: 2
	CPU clock currently at 2210.023 MHz with 512 KB cache
	Numbering: family(15) model(75) stepping(2)
	Bogomips: 4420.04
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 ht syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt rdtscp lm 3dnowext 3dnow rep_good pni cx16 lahf_lm cmp_legacy svm extapic cr8_legacy

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 1888 MB
	Total swap: 5530 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	SCSI device -  scsi2
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  ST3250820AS      
	SCSI device -  scsi3
		Vendor:  TSSTcorp 
		Model:  CDDVDW SH-S223B  
	SCSI device -  scsi5
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  ST3250820AS      
	SCSI device -  scsi4
		Vendor:  USB 2.0  
		Model:  Flash Disk       

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
	PCI bridge(s)
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI bridge (rev a1) (prog-if 01 [Subtractive decode])
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 PCI Express bridge (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
	USB controller(s)
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 10 [OHCI])
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 USB Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 20 [EHCI])
	ISA bridge
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 LPC Bridge (rev a2)
		Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Unknown device 8234
	IDE interface
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 SATA Controller (rev a2) (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
		Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Unknown device 8234

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		nVidia Corporation GeForce 6100 nForce 430 (rev a2) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
		Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Unknown device 8234

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		nVidia Corporation MCP61 High Definition Audio (rev a2)
		Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Unknown device 8234

NETWORK

NVIDIA GRAPHIC CARD INFORMATION
	Model name: GeForce 6150SE nForce 430
	Card Type: PCI 
	Video RAM: 512 MB
	GPU Frequency: 425 MHz
	Driver version: NVIDIA UNIX x86_64 Kernel Module  169.12  Thu Feb 14 17:51:09 PST 2008

Well that's what I've got and from Ubuntu 7.04 until now it has run beautifully.  So well in fact that despite having used Ubuntu this long I have learned only a little about linux because, bar a few easy to sort glitches, I've been able to concentrate on applications and games.  This one has me foxed and, having scoured the forums, seems to be a problem for quite a few people.  After putting in 9.10 the resolution on my crt monitor was pretty good 1024, 768, 72hz ( it's an old monitor and that is nearly as good as it gets )however when I then installed my hardware drivers it dropped to the lowest three resolutions at eye killingly slow refresh rates.  So I ran to the forums for help and tried the fix which was using the nvidia control panel in combination with gediting the xorg.conf whilst the gdm was turned off.  It seemed to work, at least for the resolution, though I couldn't get more than 60hz until I rebooted.  Well, needing to get some work done I went back to my other drive to use the 8.04 lts and it had gone wrong too.  Several days of forum reading, formating, trying out various distro, and headbanging against grub and xorg have followed, it would take too long to tell.  Where I am now is this.  Reasoning that I'd got bad some bad config hiding somewhere in my system I got all my work off the machine.  Installed secure-delete and ran smem in case it was in my ram.  Formated both drives, in case it was there.  Unplugged my internet, in case it was there.   Then reinstalled the 8.04.  Using the same disc which had worked for me before.  And ...no, back at 800,500,60hz.  So I put in the driver this time I only had one instead of three choises and the result was to give me the two lowest resolutions available, at 56 and 50hz.  At this point I assumed I must have fried some bit of hardware but I am now posting via Puppy linux loaded into the ram and I have the 1024 by 768 and a refresh rate of 75hz.  So what on earth is going on?

Here are the questions.  If you know of a solved thread which my throbbing eyes have missed please point me at it or if you can think of a solution please tell me.

If I have enough money left at new year I hope to buy a lcd screen and maybe a card ( which must NOT have TV as I can't afford the licence and wouldn't want one even if I could, British TV arrrh.  It or they will be bottom of the range.  So can you recommend something which would fit my system as it will have to do for several years yet.  Meanwhile the only choice I can think of is to use the vista, that came with this machine.  I don't like Vista at all but at least it will run open office and I can get on with my work.  I want to stay with linux as long as my system is compatible with it.  Even if you don't have advice thanks bearing with me and reading this over long post.

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2009-12-16
No replies.....ah well.  Going back to vista didn't work anyway as the system won't recognise the disk.  Nor will it recognise the mother board driver, it does find the disc ( in driver update mode from the 9.04 live bootup ) but simply lists I/O errors.  So it seems that I'm stuck with Ubuntu in one of the lowest three resolutions, or lowest two if I try to put nvidia in through the hardware manager, all at painfully slow refresh rates.  The only other choise I'm left with is the one I'm using now, Puppy running from ram which can do 1024 by 768 at 75hz.  So the new question is does anyone know how I can recover from the mistake of installing 9.10 and using the maintainers version of grub, which turned out to be beta for goodnesses sake and what on earth was that doing on a supposedly stable releace.  A comment to the team is this, putting out a new version every six months is a nice idea but if it's not ready it's not ready and we'd rather it was late and working than on time and sub beta standard.  Especially as it seems to a one way street, meaning that if it doesn't work out one can easily get back to where one was and keep working.  Appologies for the tone please don't mistake my frustration for anger.  Ubuntu was great while it lasted and I was very grateful for it, but now my system is screwed so badly even a reinstall of ubuntu doesn't fix it, it won't let me put in anything else and I can't work.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2009-12-16
Do not upgrade from the CD disc.

Do a fresh install and format the hard drive before install. This will be an option during the install process.

Try a fresh install with the version that you would like to use.

9.10 is a good version but you may have better lick with the 8.10 version. Intrepid (8.10) is a little more stable but 9.10 may offer a few more perks.

After installation use the hardware drivers icon on the top panel to install the Nvidia driver that you would like to use.

Hopefully that will solve your issue.

Check out the links in my sig for more help.

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2009-12-16
Thank you very much for posting.  I've tried the method you suggest with 8.04lts and 9.04 without sucess but I haven't yet tried with 8.10 so I'll give it a shot.  In fact I'll re-download the 8.10 as the one I got was on the day of releace and, if I remember correctly, had keyboard issuees.  If it works for you then maybe the iso has been updated.  Thanks again for stopping by to reply.

---

### Post by houseworkshy on 2009-12-18
Ok sorted it.  After a great deal of trial and error I managed to get Vista to boot.  I discovered that though it it wouldn't from a cold boot it did from a warm one.  No idea why.  Next I used it to format both drives and installed it, then ran the update vista drivers disc which came with the machine.  Got my resolutions and refresh rates back, in fact higher; could do the 1024 one at 85hz and could do the next few higher ones than that if I dropped the refresh.  Then I put Ubuntu back on ( the 9.04 ) and rebooted where it looked like I was back where I started after putting the hardware drivers on.  Then I followed the instructions on this page ( which I found linked in one of the posts on this forum )
 [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/install-nvidia-graphics-drivers-190-42-in-ubuntu-karmicjauntyintrepidhardy.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/install-nvidia-graphics-drivers-190-42-in-ubuntu-karmicjauntyintrepidhardy.html)
After that I had a resolution of 1024x768 plus, if I wanted, the next two up.  Still stuck with a refresh of 60hz at that but the computer is useable for short periods of time on the web and if I drop to 800x600 for writing it will refresh at 72hz which is ok.  Pretty much what I had before installing 9.10.  I will be buying a cheap lcd as a xmas presant for my detaching retinas anyway.
Why the part involving vista is nessesary for this fix I have no idea but it is, ( lots and lots of trial and error.)

---

