---
title: "16.04: U.S. International Keyboard or current equivalent?"
date: 2017-12-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jim_Henry on 2017-12-08
I just bought a laptop (Lenovo G51, if it matters) from the Linux Laptop Company with 16.04 LTS installed.  I've set up most of the stuff I need; most of it worked automatically when I coped over the dotfiles from my old 12.04 Dell laptop.  However, I can't seem to figure out how to set up the U.S. International Keyboard, and searching various threads here suggests that it may have been removed from recent versions of GNOME.  Is there an equivalent keyboard layout that lets one type accented letters but keeps the basic U.S. keyboard layout?  Or is there a plugin that restores the missing U.S. International Keyboard?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-12-08
> **Jim_Henry said:**
> &#8230;how to set up the U.S. International Keyboard&#8230;Is there an equivalent keyboard layout that lets one type accented letters but keeps the basic U.S. keyboard layout?  Or is there a plugin that restores the missing U.S. International Keyboard?
Welcome to the forums, Jim_Henry.

I don't use the Gnome DE. However, in Unity: System Settings&#8594;Test Entry&#8594;"+" sign under "Input Sources To Use"&#8594;Choose your keyboard of choice. There are a number of US English International keyboards. You will have to experiment with each to see which one works best for you. Being largely monolingual, I have little knowledge in the details of alternative keyboard layouts.

Note that you may have to reboot for new optional keyboard layout to be available. Also note that you can define what key combos will change your layout. The default is <Super>+<Space>

You can also change the keyboard layout for all virtual console shell sessions with:```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure keyboard-configuration
```&#8230;Note that you will have to reboot for keyboard change to take effect.

---

### Post by Jim_Henry on 2017-12-10
Thanks.  I added several U.S. International keyboard layouts and tried them out, and although none of them quite work the way I'm used to (I'm pretty sure my old system was set up to use "U.S. International with AltGr dead keys"), several of them seem to let me do what I need to do.  Super+Space doesn't seem to work, because Super by itself brings up the sidebar menu or the search-for-command bar, and I can't find where that particular shortcut is configured; it's overriding all of the shortcuts that use Super+something else.  But I can switch between keyboard layouts using the keyboard icon in the top menu bar between the WiFi icon and the Bluetooth icon.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-12-10
Glad to see things worked out. If you consider your problem solved, *please mark thread **solved** using *Thread Tools* in the top toolbar for the benefit of others searching for solutions*.

---

