---
title: "18.04 Cannot remove a printer, keeps returning, tried various cups config settings."
date: 2018-07-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by davidboom on 2018-07-28
I have an issue that "Settings > Devices > Printers" keeps finding my wireless printers (but they don't connect or print). I have manually added the printers manually and they work. But I cannot get the non-working "auto discovered" printers to stop appearing after removing. They remove on the page but then if I click off the page and back on they return, even after rebooting.

Looking around for answers it appears the issue is with CUPS auto discovery of networked printers.

I have therefore tried the following:

1. Add override

sudo service cups-browsed stop

Then created a file: /etc/init/cups-browsed.override with the contents as "manual"
Restarted cups-browsed
and tried rebooting too
no fix.

2. Edited /etc/cups/cups-browsed.conf

I edited /etc/cups/cups-browsed.conf and set these to none:

BrowseRemoteProtocols none
BrowseLocalProtocols none
BrowseProtocols none

Same result.

3. Editted  /etc/cups/cupsd.conf

Set the following

Browsing Off
BrowseLocalProtocols none

Same result

4. Tried sudo cupsctl --no-remote-printers

Same result

5. Deleted printer via [http://localhost:631/](http://localhost:631/)

Same result

How to stop this happening - it is driving me crazy!!!

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2018-07-29
I did your #2 method but simpler:

edit  /etc/cups/cups-browsed.conf
Make the the following change:
```
BrowseRemoteProtocols none
```
save then restart CUPS
```
service cups restart
```

It has worked on 2 machines running 18.04. The Samsung driver that was automatically installed would print one line of gibberish per page until it ran out of paper:p

---

### Post by pedro-clemo on 2018-08-24
Same problem here.  Have edited cups-browsed.conf and restarted the service (and restarted the PC) but both network printers keep appearing.  Very frustrating!!!!!

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2018-08-24
Hello pedro-clemo, please start your own thread so you and the OP of this one can get the individual help you need.

Thanks

---

### Post by LeeJunFan on 2018-11-12
You need to stop/disable the avahi-daemon.

sudo systemct disable --now avahi-daemon

---

### Post by recicchini on 2019-05-23
> **kurt18947 said:**
> I did your #2 method but simpler:

edit  /etc/cups/cups-browsed.conf
Make the the following change:
```
BrowseRemoteProtocols none
```
save then restart CUPS
```
service cups restart
```

It has worked on 2 machines running 18.04. The Samsung driver that was automatically installed would print one line of gibberish per page until it ran out of paper:p

This worked for me! Thank you!

---

