---
title: "12.04 LTS LIVE CD Crashes, Bugs and comments"
date: 2013-07-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KeepItSimpleStupid on 2013-07-15
Unfortunately, I don't do much after installing (Toshiba A665-s6057 model, 64bit).

0. A USB flash drive is connected

1. Wireless
Always troublesome
Always connects at 18 Mb/s.  Wireless g

2. Set Time zone to Eastern
Interface is goofy
Seems like ter should be an OK/Cancel box

3. Might add an HP Network printer - painless

4. Might add Flashplayer
Now that's just a copy

5. Might add vlc
Apparently lots of known issues with the repositories

6. Keyboard backlight doesn't work

7.  Might loose the trackpad
I know how to get it back

8. The most annoying issue is a crash, freeze or whatever.
Symptoms are:
Lots of CD Drive accesses
control+ALT+T will not bring up the terminal
System unresponsive

Haven't tried adding an Epson Printer or Scanner yet.  Make a persistant USB hopefully will happen eventually.

All of the issues reported are not "one of's" They appen way to often, to be considered stable.

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2013-07-15
Toshibas are notorious for their ever-changing and non-standard hardware.

Thanks for helping to make Ubuntu better.

Unfortunately, your comments are not detailed enough, or in the correct venue, to be useful to developers trying to fix bugs in Ubuntu..

Please see [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ReportingBugs) to learn how to collect the information needed to file useful bug reports that will get the bugs fixed.

---

