---
title: "11.10 system crash - will not boot into Ubuntu."
date: 2011-11-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Graham C Williams on 2011-11-19
I need some help with this please. 
After a party my daughters Acer 5535 running 11.10 32 bit 2.6.35-24-generic-pae #4 will no longer boot into Ubuntu. Stating in recovery mode we end by going into:
mount: mounting /sys on /root/sys failed: No such file or directory 
mount: mounting /proc on /root/proc failed: no such file or directory
Target filesystem doesn't have requested /sbin/init.
No init found. Try passing init = bootarg.

BusyBox v1.18.4 (Ubuntu 1:1.18.4-2ubuntu2) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built in commands.

(initramfs) 
I entered exit and get:
cant open /root/dev/console: no such file
kernel panic.

Can I recover from here?
Graham.

---

### Post by Graham C Williams on 2011-11-19
Good News. The Laptop started and went into Disk Check mode found a fault and asked me if I wanted to fix it. Yes, and we have the system working again.

Graham

---

### Post by $ixtus on 2011-12-14
I have a same problem I need help to fix this asap PLZ 
 Do i nened a boot fix or something ??? 
Hope someone can explain stepwize how to fix this problem 
 
regards noob

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-12-14
Hi
> 
I have a same problem I need help to fix this asap PLZ 
Are you getting exactly the same error message ? Is it's slightly different then please specify the exact message text.

Do you have a LiveCD/USB handy ?

If so run the boot script in my signature. The instructions are on the download page. Post the results back here.

It may be something as simple as your filing system needing an fsck.

Kind regards

---

### Post by $ixtus on 2011-12-14
Hello again matt 
Thank you for reply 

this is the same message i receive 

BusyBox v1.18.4 (Ubuntu 1:1.18.4-2ubuntu2) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built in commands.

And Now i am running TRY version ubuntu from CD 
i dont quite understand what this '' live cd'' is ? 
intallation CD ?

---

### Post by sirvinniei on 2011-12-14
> **matt_symes said:**
> Hi

Are you getting exactly the same error message ? Is it's slightly different then please specify the exact message text.

Do you have a LiveCD/USB handy ?

If so run the boot script in my signature. The instructions are on the download page. Post the results back here.

It may be something as simple as your filing system needing an fsck.

Kind regards

Isnt a fsck something ubuntu automatically does upon boot? Or is ot just my pc?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-12-14
Hi

> **sirvinniei said:**
> Isnt a fsck something ubuntu automatically does upon boot? Or is ot just my pc?

fsck can run at every boot. It depends on how it is configured.

Kind regards

---

### Post by garvinrick4 on 2011-12-14
If anyone wishes to run a fsck it can only be run on a unmounted partition:
Use Live CD (install CD using Try Ubuntu)
Open a terminal:
```
sudo fdisk -l
``` (lower case L)
find your linux partition from output:

I will use sda5 for this [COLOR=Red]use your own.[/COLOR]
```
sudo e2fsck /dev/sda5
```

There are many lines of code you can run with Live CD to repair a broken System.
If you need start a thread of your own and just ask on how to repair from root and
there are plenty of users who are capable of helping.

If it is a boot problem give matt_symes his boot script if originator of thread and will tell whole story on how to fix a boot problem and or start a new thread with bootscript in Post and many users can help.

---

