---
title: "Change the mounting point directory name"
date: 2009-03-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by broozm on 2009-03-19
Noob apologises in advance for long post. Deep breath.

OK, so I can change the Label that appears in the "Friendly name in the file browser using
sudo ntfslabel /dev/sdb3 SONGS
(After unmounting and making sure the files are not open)

but in the Location it shows up as
/media/MEDIA

and in the etc/fstab I see the entry:
/dev/sdb3 /media/MEDIA ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0

So how do I change the name of the mount point folder..
In other words, I am trying to get id of all references to the word "Media" as I unfortunaltely did not realise this has a special meaning in Linux (much like dev).
These were ntfs partitions on a Windows2000 sata drive, and mounted no problem.
The issue was that I had two identical 320GB sata drive with three partitions named the same, (ie WORK, DATA, MEDIA and WORK , DATA, MEDIA on the second.)

When I mounted them in Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex, they showed up as those labels so I could not tell which was which.
WORK
DATA
MEDIA
WORK
DATA
MEDIA

After much [careful] fluffing around to try and rename them, I am approaching an acceptable naming scheme... But I still want to rsync all data from the respective partitions, then format one drive in native linux, and copy data back, then do the other, and then rsync them again.

Confusion reigned for a while after I inadvertently filled my 80GB boot drive by using rsych as follows:
rsynch /media/MEDIAbak /media/MEDIA
Instead of wring to the device called /media, it created a new /media folder on the home drive called media - and filled the boot drive till I could not even boot!
I presume I should have used something more like
rsynch /dev/sdb3 /dev/sdc3

How does one specify a device when it is a "media" as opposed to a dev or a directory?

My current situaton is:

 ls /media -al
total 88
drwxr-xr-x 10 root root  4096 2009-03-19 15:33 .
drwxr-xr-x 20 root root  4096 2009-03-19 15:22 ..
lrwxrwxrwx  1 root root     6 2009-03-11 19:06 cdrom -> cdrom0
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root  4096 2009-03-11 19:06 cdrom0
drwxrwxrwx  1 root root 40960 2009-03-14 11:33 DATA
-rw-r--r--  1 root root     0 2009-03-19 15:33 .hal-mtab
drwxrwxrwx  1 root root  8192 2009-03-19 21:06 MEDIA
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root  4096 2009-03-17 16:23 MEDIAbak
drwxrwxrwx  1 root root  8192 2009-01-29 18:51 usbdc2
drwxrwxrwx  1 root root  8192 2009-03-15 10:54 vsbdc3
drwxrwxrwx  1 root root  4096 2009-03-18 08:01 WORK
drwxrwxrwx  1 root root  4096 2009-03-17 11:01 WORKbak


fstab looks like this 

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=8cf9fd24-b332-4b5e-87bc-d791982b8505 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=8a8b43de-1330-431a-a82c-3759795b8a49 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdc3 /media/vsbdc3 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdc2 /media/usbdc2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/WORKbak ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb3 /media/MEDIA ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb2 /media/DATA ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/WORK ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0


And Partion Editor shows
```

Partition	Filesystm	Mountpoint	Label
/dev/sdb1	ntfs		/media/WORK	WORK
/dev/sdb2	ntfs		/media/DATA	DATA
/dev/sdb1	ntfs				SONGS

/dev/sdc1	ntfs		/media/WORKbak	WORKbak
/dev/sdc2	ntfs		/media/usbdc2	DATAbak
/dev/sdc3	ntfs		/media/vsbdc3	MEDIAbak
```

So why SONGS has no mountpoint, yet mounts ok, I have NO idea!

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-03-19
> **broozm said:**
> 
Partition	Filesystm	Mountpoint	Label
/dev/sdb1	ntfs		/media/WORK	WORK
/dev/sdb2	ntfs		/media/DATA	DATA
**/dev/sdb1	ntfs				SONGS**

/dev/sdc1	ntfs		/media/WORKbak	WORKbak
/dev/sdc2	ntfs		/media/usbdc2	DATAbak
/dev/sdc3	ntfs		/media/vsbdc3	MEDIAbak[/code]

So why SONGS has no mountpoint, yet mounts ok, I have NO idea!

yes, odd that it's blank.

I think all you need to do is create a new mountpoint and edit fstab:

sudo mkdir /media/newmount

gksudo gedit /etc/fstab

/dev/sdb3 /media/[COLOR="Blue"]newmount[/COLOR] ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by broozm on 2009-03-22
Thanks, that worked.
So now I have rsycn'd the two drives, I have reformated one to ext3.. 
Now just doing battle with the mounting of the three partitions.

As I understand it they should automount if they follow sequential sda, sdb and sdc at boot time? Or I can use 
mount -a

sda is my linux boot disk, sdb is still ntfs, and I have formatted sdc to ext3.
Maybe that is why it does not automount.

I tried using the sudo mount /dec/sdc1 command, but it complains that it has no mount point specified in fstab.. :(

So I have to now find out how to get the correct fstab line for the 3 partitions on the ext disk.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2009-03-22
try using the UUIDs, as in the case of / and /swap. maybe that will help

find with:

sudo blkid

---

