---
title: "20.04 freezes randomly - but only when on battery power"
date: 2022-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lava2 on 2022-08-11
Title says it all. Laptop boots up fine on battery power but then freezes randomly, sometimes after 5 minutes, sometimes after an hour. Doesn't seem to be associated with any particular application. Does not happen when plugged in. Any ideas?

---

### Post by lava2 on 2022-09-28
So let's narrow it down - what are some processes that run when on battery power but don't when plugged in? Can anybody help me with that?

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2022-09-28
Is the battery OK? Is it bulging or distorted?

---

### Post by aug7744 on 2022-09-28
What is the IGP and video driver used ?

---

### Post by lava2 on 2022-10-08
Battery is fine. Graphics card is Mesa Intel UHD Graphics 630 (CFL GT2), using Nvidia driver GP107M [GeForce GTX 1050 Ti Mobile] nvidia-driver-515. Thanks all for chiming in. Should I try the open source driver?

---

### Post by aug7744 on 2022-10-09
Both gpus intel uhd and nvidia are enabled or only is being listed the gpus in system ?

---

### Post by lava2 on 2022-10-22
> **aug7744 said:**
> Both gpus intel uhd and nvidia are enabled or only is being listed the gpus in system ?

How can I tell?

And can you explain why my graphics cards would care whether I'm on battery or AC power?

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2022-10-22
Hmm, you said the battery is fine, but clearly it is not.  It is probably time to visit [www.ifixit.com](www.ifixit.com)

---

### Post by lava2 on 2022-10-22
> **HermanAB said:**
> Hmm, you said the battery is fine, but clearly it is not.  It is probably time to visit [www.ifixit.com]("http://www.ifixit.com")

Clearly, the battery is fine. Passes the bios check and lasts for hours. I am not running out of power when the issue happens.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2022-10-23
The battery may have one dud cell.  That will make the voltage low although it will still work with a light load.

---

### Post by lava2 on 2022-10-26
My first reaction was that the BMS would remove a low voltage cell, but looking at the specs this battery is 4 cells in series so that's not possible - you might just be right. Thanks, I'll investigate further.

---

