---
title: ".zip problem"
date: 2013-08-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tapasray on 2013-08-22
When I double-click on a zip file icon, this is what I get -- 


"7-Zip 9.20  Copyright (c) 1999-2010 Igor Pavlov  2010-11-18
p7zip Version 9.20 (locale=en_IN,Utf16=on,HugeFiles=on,2 CPUs)

Error:
there is no such archive"

To unzip, I have to "mount" the file (archive) first. Could someone please tell me what's going on and how I can open zip files by simply double-clicking?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-08-22
You have 7zip installed?

[ATTACH=CONFIG]245585[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by tapasray on 2013-08-22
Yes. I have uninstalled and reinstalled it. Still no go.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-08-22
Can you give me a link to a 7zip file?  I would like to try it.

---

### Post by tapasray on 2013-08-22
Thanks! I'll try.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-08-22
What's the exact filename of the Zip file?

And is it a .zip or a .7z?

And what does File say? (open a terminal, type the word *file* and press the spacebar, then drag the Zip file to the terminal and press Enter)

---

### Post by tapasray on 2013-08-23
Sorry, folks! I was without internet for the rest of the day. Back now and will try the things you have mentioned.

3rdalbum, the filename is "invitationonedaysymposiumonindiasforeignpolicythe.zip". So it's a .zip file. 

Did what you wrote and got this:
"file '/media/New Volume/WkFiles/,MAKAIAS/invitationonedaysymposiumonindiasforeignpolicythe.zip' 
/media/New Volume/WkFiles/,MAKAIAS/invitationonedaysymposiumonindiasforeignpolicythe.zip: Zip archive data, at least v2.0 to extract"

I just tried to open a different zip file and it opened with a double-click. So the issue seems to be specific to one particular file. I wonder if the unusually long filename is the problem.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-08-23
Try taking the comma out of the name of the enclosing folder.

i.e. change it to MAKAIAS

Or move the Zip file out of that folder. The comma in the file path is probably exposing a little bug in the program.

---

