---
title: "11.10 too many start up apps,"
date: 2011-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ernestj on 2011-11-25
I switched to Xubuntu and have been loving it! I did remove bottom panel and add AWN dock. Now, after installing some applications I believe I have too many start-up apps. Also, I do not know if it is because of AWN, but the first time I click my home folder after boot-up, it takes forever for the folder to open. After the first time, it opens immediately. Any Ideas?
Below are the start up apps. Do I need all of this?

1)Xfce Settings Helper
2) Blueman Applet (Blueman Bluetooth Manager)
3)Avant Window Navigator
4) SSH Key Agent (GNOME Keyrigh: SSH Agent)
5)Update Notifier(Check for available updates automoatically)
6)Certificate and Key Storage (GNOME Keyring: PKCS#11 Component)
7) PulseAudio Sound System (Start the PulseAudio Sound System)
8) Network (Manage your network connections)
9)Check for new hardware drivers (Notify about new hardware drivers available for the system)
10) Secret Storage Serive (GNOME Keyring: Secret Service)
11) Zeitgeist Datahub (Start the Zeitgeist Datahub for passive loggers)
12)PolicyKit Authentication Agent (PolicyKit Authentication Agent)
13)Print Queue Applet (System tray icon for managing print jobs)
14) GPG Password Agent (GNOME Keyring: GPG Agent)
15) XFCE Volume Daemon (Daemon managing the volume multimedia keys and displaying volume notifications)
16)Power Manager (Power management for the XFCE desktop)

Thanks,
Ernie

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2011-11-27
you startup list really doesn't look that bad.

do you run bluetooth?  if not you can remove #2 from the list.

For testing try taking AWN off the startup list and see if nautilus is faster.

Zeitgeist Datahub; don't know about this one.

if this is nautilus only, there are some work-arounds out there.

[http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=speed+up+nautilus&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9](http://www.googlubuntu.com/results/?cx=006238239194895611142:u-ocqbntw_o&q=speed+up+nautilus&sa=Search&cof=FORID:9)

---

