---
title: "9.04 Live Desktop swapped on my encrypted partition"
date: 2009-10-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lordearl on 2009-10-06
I bootet a 9.04 live CD and it appearently used my partition /dev/sda1 for swapping.

That's pretty unlucky, because /dev/sda1 was an dm-crypt/luks/lvm thingy (set up by ubuntu setup) and got corrupted. At least the first gig (I guess, because the swap was monitored being 1 gig in size).

All that stuff happened on sunday, I tried to figure out a solution since then. Now my last hope is that someone in the forum knows better.

Some facts:
-I still know the password.
-The cryptsetup tools don't open the partition at all. ("No keys with that password")
-I think that the first blocks of the partition are corrupted because of the swapping.

Now I have some questions that may help me:
-Are there blocks where luks/dm-crypt saves copys of the (encrypted) keys?
-Are there files in /boot where the Ubuntu setup backs up the keys?

I have some really important data on that disk. No expensive business stuff and nothing very old, but some recent personal data like holiday photos (no kidding!).

The insides of the encrypted container are (as far as I remember) a LVM thing featuring a small swap (about 2 GB) and a big ext3 file system (about 120 GB). I unfortunately do not remember the physical order. (I hope the swap was first and the ext3 is not harmed.)

---

### Post by lordearl on 2009-10-07
I figured out some stuff:

-The first blocks of the partition are still valid, so is the key.

```
LUKS header information for /dev/sda1

Version:           1
Cipher name:       aes
Cipher mode:       cbc-essiv:sha256
Hash spec:         sha1
Payload offset:    2056
MK bits:           256
MK digest:         a3 76 28 96 23 53 d8 9b 5a 0c 82 d9 9a 37 09 82 83 5f c6 3f 
MK salt:           4f 40 f5 6d 7d c9 ed 19 79 58 83 3f d3 79 23 73 
                   20 86 57 4b 6b 0f 5f 81 d1 da b1 b1 9b 78 9e a0 
MK iterations:     10
UUID:              1579a175-3820-4245-bdba-b7044ac8a448

Key Slot 0: ENABLED
    Iterations:             155969
    Salt:                   9a 25 a0 e3 90 5d 2f 99 31 17 aa 37 6e 87 a8 e3 
                              21 08 09 98 dc 49 28 63 a7 68 70 43 3a 2c a3 d8 
    Key material offset:    8
    AF stripes:                4000
Key Slot 1: DISABLED
Key Slot 2: DISABLED
Key Slot 3: DISABLED
Key Slot 4: DISABLED
Key Slot 5: DISABLED
Key Slot 6: DISABLED
Key Slot 7: DISABLED
```

It doesn't seem hopeless any more. At least it must be possible to get the key and to decrypt most of the blocks. Then there will be the surprise if there is enough file system information left to restore files.

Does anybody has some hints that could help me solve the problem?

---

### Post by lordearl on 2009-10-11
For me it is clear: There is no more hope.

The swap did not trash the first data block, which contains meta info. But the place where the key should be (according to the first block info) is trashed.

I know the on-disk format of luks in detail now, there is no other place to find the keys if you do not have another backup with unharmed key data. (If you have another backup, I could at least help you!)

Another thing that really sucks: Why can't I file a bug on this? I made a Launchpad account for this some time and know I can just send in app memory dumps.

P.S.: By the way: My encrypted partition was set up by Ubuntu 8.10 as well. Maybe it is reproducable with 8.10 setup and booting pf 9.04 live system afterwards?

---

### Post by lordearl on 2009-10-11
I just filed a bug.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-meta/+bug/448998](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-meta/+bug/448998)

---

