---
title: "Lost FAT32 partition access"
date: 2008-01-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jhamric on 2008-01-17
I've been experiencience some exasperating behavior lately. 

I have a FAT32 partition (shared with Windows XP) that I have had no problem accessing until a few weeks ago. Now, if I try to open up the folder, Nautilus hangs. The status line displays the number of files and the free space but no files show up, Nautilus turns grey and I have to terminate  it.

In addition I have 2 Windows shares that used to automount on the desktop. Now I have to use sudo mount -a.  After that, everything with the shares is fine. This is done using wireless.

I also had a problem with Network Manager not connecting to my wireless network (using WPA). But I seemed to fix that by installing Wicd. Don't know if any of that has anything to do with my mount problems...

For info, my fstab file:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
/dev/hda2 0 0 0 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=fef7bc3d-9294-4536-8048-93a8254b15a0 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
/dev/hda1 0 0 0 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=9CC870E8C870C256 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
/dev/sda6 /Share vfat user,auto,umask=000 0 0
/dev/hda5 0 0 0 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=a1d893e6-cc46-4298-bc85-5b5c3769d1f1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
//Barsoom/Data /media/Barsoom_Data cifs guest,rw,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0
//Barsoom/Media /media/Barsoom_Media cifs guest,rw,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0
/dev/sda5 /media/sda5 swap defaults 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/sda2 ext3 defaults 0 0

Sorry if the formatting is messed up. I don't post much!

TIA for any help.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-01-18
> **jhamric said:**
> I've been experiencience some exasperating behavior lately. 

I have a FAT32 partition (shared with Windows XP) that I have had no problem accessing until a few weeks ago. Now, if I try to open up the folder, Nautilus hangs. The status line displays the number of files and the free space but no files show up, Nautilus turns grey and I have to terminate  it.

In addition I have 2 Windows shares that used to automount on the desktop. Now I have to use sudo mount -a.  After that, everything with the shares is fine. This is done using wireless.

I also had a problem with Network Manager not connecting to my wireless network (using WPA). But I seemed to fix that by installing Wicd. Don't know if any of that has anything to do with my mount problems...

For info, my fstab file:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
**/dev/hda2 0 0 0 0 0**
# Entry for** /dev/sda2** :
UUID=fef7bc3d-9294-4536-8048-93a8254b15a0 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
**/dev/hda1 0 0 0 0 0**
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=9CC870E8C870C256 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
/dev/sda6 /Share vfat user,auto,umask=000 0 0
**/dev/hda5 0 0 0 0 0**
# Entry for **/dev/sda5** :
UUID=a1d893e6-cc46-4298-bc85-5b5c3769d1f1 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
//Barsoom/Data /media/Barsoom_Data cifs guest,rw,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0
//Barsoom/Media /media/Barsoom_Media cifs guest,rw,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0
**/dev/sda5** /media/sda5 swap defaults 0 0
**/dev/sda2** /media/sda2 ext3 defaults 0 0
```

Sorry if the formatting is messed up. I don't post much!

TIA for any help.

This fstab file has many problems (all highlighted).

The /dev/hda entries are rubbish, and you have duplicate entries for those two /dev/sda partitions.

AFAIK all of these should be removed/commented out, then see how things work.

---

### Post by jhamric on 2008-01-18
Thanks dcstar for the advice. I've removed/commented out your suggestions in my fstab. I've also replaced the uuid's with their respective /dev/sdx designations. But still no go. My network shares still do not automount and show up on the desktop as they used to. Still have to run "sudo mount -a" & 3 "mount: mount point 0 does not exist" messages are displayed.Then the shares show up

If you have any other suggestions, I'll happily try them

---

