---
title: ".tcl filetype - installing from tar.gz? How?"
date: 2009-09-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bekul on 2009-09-10
Hi! Sorry if this is an obvious question, I'm kinda new to Ubuntu.

I'm trying to install a program from a tar.gz file, specifically from [http://www.belfry.com/fuzzball/trebuchet/#WhereGetIt](http://www.belfry.com/fuzzball/trebuchet/#WhereGetIt) the file 'trebuchet-1.067.tar.gz' - it's a mud client that I enjoy.

However, after downloading and uncompressing the file, I get a folder full of seperate files, things like 'Makefile' trebuchet.tcl' 'trebuchet.spec' and folders like 'pkgs' 'lib' and things like that.

There are no program icons? When I click 'Trebuchet.tcl', a text file with what looks like code opens up.

First: How do I get the program to work?
Second: How to I get the program to have its icon?
Third: How do I get the program to show up in 'Applications -> Internet'?

Thanks for all your help! I'm very frustrated, I thought Ubuntu was supposed to be easier, but just trying to get downloaded programs to work is proving to be near impossible for me.

---

### Post by llamabr on 2009-09-10
I like ubuntu, but i wouldn't call it 'easier'.  in particular, you should start by reading the file called 'readme.txt':

```
brock@hops:~/Desktop/trebuchet-1.067$ nano readme.txt 
```

---

### Post by JigglyWiggly_ on 2009-09-10
Probably just extract files to wherever
cd into the directory
probably do these steps once inside: (In the terminal)
```

./configure
make
sudo make install
```

---

### Post by akakingess on 2009-09-10
+1, JigglyWiggly nailed it, that should be all you need to do to install, and don't give up on Ubuntu, Linux may do things differently, but it's just a short learning curve that once most people get over, they never want to go back to their former OS!!!  Happy Ubuntuing!!

Also:  This community is very friendly to new users (I still am one, so take it from one) so be sure and do the proper reading and googling, aside from that, the forum an excellent resource and very user-friendly.

---

