---
title: "9.04 displays wrong ntfs partition size"
date: 2009-07-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Midnytpudding on 2009-07-18
Hello, I'm a new ubuntu user and i have a little problem, im dual booting windows and ubuntu on my 120gig laptop, and i have 3 partitions, 20gig for winxp, 75gig(ntfs) for storing files, and 16gig for ubuntu; my problem is that when i try to mount my 75gig partition, ubuntu shows me that the partition size is 80gig, while using windows and gparted live cd the size of that partition is actually 75gig.. is there something wrong with my setup? :confused: pls. enlighten me a bit.. thank you.. :grin:

---

### Post by TheSmokingGNU on 2009-07-18
well, I just recently had to run aground of the mounting partition drift myself, but I'm using 8.04 so not quite sure how to help. also, The only thing I can think of is that windows itself if actually installed in the ntfs space (accounting for the lost space) but... well, not sure. sorry.

good luck!

---

### Post by Midnytpudding on 2009-07-18
thanks for the reply TheSmokingGNU. I hope somebody knows the answer to my problem..

---

### Post by The Cog on 2009-07-18
I think it is a difference of whether you think a Gigabyte is 1000000000 bytes or 1073741824 (1024 * 1024 * 1024) bytes.
Note that 75 * 1024 * 1024 * 1024 = 80530636800.

Personally, I think that Kilo, Mega, Giga should all be multiples or 1000, as they have been for hundreds of years. It's only recently (20-30 years ago ) that some computer people started calling 1024 bytes a kilobyte. Will, it is... roughly (within 3%). Everyone knew what they meant. But it's not accurate and certainly doesn't translate into higher multiples. By the time you're in the gigabyte range, there 's more than 7% error. Now you get youngsters thinking one Gig is 1073741824. Nope. It's just fairly close.

---

