---
title: "Firefox crashes after 1.5.0.9 update"
date: 2007-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bziman on 2007-01-04
After this morning's Firefox update, simply visiting [www.hotmail.com](www.hotmail.com) causes the browser to crash when the page finishes loading.

> Mozilla/5.0 (X11; U; Linux i686; en-US; rv:1.8.0.9) Gecko/20070103 Ubuntu/breezy-security Firefox/1.5.0.9

It was requested that I run from the command line... all I get is a segfault... any way I can increase the verbosity?

> $ firefox --verbose [http://www.hotmail.com/](http://www.hotmail.com/)
FIREFOX_DSP=
APPLICATION_ID=firefox
CMDLINE_DISPLAY=
DISPLAY=:0.0
OPTIONS=http://www.hotmail.com/
DEBUG=0
DEBUGGER=
Running: /usr/lib/firefox/firefox-bin -a firefox [http://www.hotmail.com/](http://www.hotmail.com/)
Segmentation fault
$


Anyone else seen this?  Anyone got a workaround?  Anyone know how to enter Ubuntu bugs?

Thanks,
Brian

---

### Post by aysiu on 2007-01-04
Can you run the command *firefox* from the terminal, visit Hotmail, and then post the error messages you get (highlight, copy, paste)?

---

### Post by fredster001 on 2007-01-04
get swiftfox!

---

### Post by bziman on 2007-01-04
Updated description -- all it does is die with a segfault.  Any additional suggestions?

---

### Post by madscientist on 2007-01-04
I'm seeing firefox crash as well, on Ubuntu Dapper after upgrading this morning to 1.5.0.9.  A number of very simple sites crash FF for me, not just things like hotmail with lots of JS.

I believe it has something to do with cookie management and/or remembered passwords.  

Here is a very simple recipe that will cause FF to segfault, every time:

```

  mkdir $HOME/fftest
  HOME=$HOME/fftest firefox -a fftest http://lists.gnu.org/mailman/admindb/help-make

```

This page is a very, very basic html page generated by Mailman: nothing bizarre here.

Type in a password, something bogus like "foobar" (it doesn't matter what password you use).

When FF asks if you want to remember the password, click "Remember".  Say OK to sending unencrypted info.

Boom!!  Instant crash.

Further, if you restart FF with the same URL (without deleting the fftest directory) it will immediately crash again, every time.

---

### Post by robenroute on 2007-01-04
Same here, Firefox just dies (with the dreaded "segmentation fault") as soon as it is loading the web pages from the last time it was used, which was just before the update....

Anyone out there with a practical clue? Thanks.

---

### Post by geekpower73 on 2007-01-05
Same problem here. Simple page of Wiki editing crashes with segfault.
Here's what gdb bt gives me :

#0  0xffffe410 in __kernel_vsyscall ()
#1  0xb7dbf790 in raise () from /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libpthread.so.0
#2  0x08055e0b in ?? ()
#3  0x0000000b in ?? ()
#4  0xbfa5c03c in ?? ()
#5  0x00000000 in ?? ()

I know it's not very useful without the debugging symbols ...

Ubuntu 6.06.1 LTS

---

### Post by rovernaut on 2007-01-05
I'm confused, Firefox is up to 2.0.01. Which I have been using for a few weeks now
Thunderbird today released the 1.5.0.9 update, no problems yet.
 Running Edgy Kubuntu

---

### Post by robenroute on 2007-01-05
> **rovernaut said:**
> I'm confused, Firefox is up to 2.0.01. Which I have been using for a few weeks now
Thunderbird today released the 1.5.0.9 update, no problems yet.
 Running Edgy Kubuntu

Confused about what? The version number? I reckon 1.5.0.9 is supposed to be the more stable platform where 2.0.0.1 is more cutting edge (?)

Dapper is still on the 1.5 series, Edgy is on 2.0. However, the latest 1.5 upgrade (to 1.5.0.9) is causing many a person a few headaches and so far, no answers how, why & what yet....

Please, someone?

---

### Post by acehigh1971 on 2007-01-05
Same problem for me.
Firefox crashes randomly after upgrade to 2.0.0.1 from 2.0.

I have a Ubuntu edgy and the same problem happens on a MACOSX with the same upgrade.

I think the topic title is wrong but the problem is right.

Any help?

---

### Post by Efwis on 2007-01-05
> **rovernaut said:**
> I'm confused, Firefox is up to 2.0.01. Which I have been using for a few weeks now
Thunderbird today released the 1.5.0.9 update, no problems yet.
 Running Edgy Kubuntu

dapper uses 1.5 by defualt, If your on Dapper and want 2.0 you have to manually install it. the Ubuntu Devs are not going to update the Dapper FF to 2.0 because they integrated it with Gnome. 

You use Edgy, which is Dapper+1, FF2.0- is the default install for it.

---

### Post by twowheeler on 2007-01-05
Yep, me too.  So I downgraded to 1.5.0.3, and its all good.

It consistently crashed on the site I was building so I had no choice.

---

### Post by madmetal on 2007-01-05
i am on dapper and firefox 1.5.0.9  and runs smooth for me :)

---

### Post by leev on 2007-01-05
The same thing happened to me whenever I visited a site with saved passwords. I ended up downgrading too.

---

### Post by rovernaut on 2007-01-06
> **Efwis said:**
> dapper uses 1.5 by defualt, If your on Dapper and want 2.0 you have to manually install it. the Ubuntu Devs are not going to update the Dapper FF to 2.0 because they integrated it with Gnome. 

You use Edgy, which is Dapper+1, FF2.0- is the default install for it.
Thanks for explaining:-D

---

### Post by robenroute on 2007-01-06
> **leev said:**
> The same thing happened to me whenever I visited a site with saved passwords. I ended up downgrading too.

Does this mean that downgrading is the only (?) solution? I find this somewhat mindboggling, I must say. What on earth is going on? ***[SIZE="4"]Why[/SIZE]*** is Firefox crashing? Anyone answers to that question?

---

### Post by madscientist on 2007-01-08
I know why it's crashing, and so could you if you searched the bug reports :-D 

Look here... and weep:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/77859]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/77859")

Uhm.... this IS supposed to be a "Long Term Support" release, right?  And yet we have a serious bug that easily crashes a critical system application (the web browser!!!) and so far not only do we not have a fix, but we don't even have any acknowledgement of the bug in the bug database!!!

And this is AFTER an enterprising user tracked down all the necessary information and even found the bug report in the Mozilla Bugzilla tracker, which contains the patch necessary!

I love Ubuntu but stuff like this makes me seriously doubt if it's ready for the enterprise :(

---

### Post by madscientist on 2007-01-08
BTW, this problem is NOT present in FireFox 2.x.  The fix was applied upstream.  You may be seeing crashes in FF 2.x, but they are very different crashes.  This particular bug ONLY appears on FF 1.5.0.9 and ONLY appears in Ubuntu Dapper (I know because I can reproduce this at will and it crashes every time on my Dapper system at work, and never crashes on my Edgy system at home).  All you Edgy folks need to go find your own thread 8)

---

### Post by lemsto on 2007-01-09
Crashes here too ](*,) 
(on page [http://www.lafraise.com](http://www.lafraise.com))

---

### Post by desmondo on 2007-01-09
When I went to downgrade Firefox in Synaptic, I got a scary message about having to remove the dependency "ubuntu-desktop".

So, instead I was able to downgrade Firefox from the command line without such a warning (I was just prompted to also downgrad firefox-gnome-support).  Here's the command I used if anyone else needs it:

```
sudo aptitude install firefox/dapper
```

(this gets the previous version because the broken 1.5.0.9 version is in the security archive, rather than the dapper archive)

---

### Post by halw on 2007-01-10
A quick note on Firefox. In the February  '07 issue of PC World there is a blurb on Mozilla dropping support of FX 1.5 version soon.

Wondering if this will have any effect on updates to dapper?

---

### Post by cvillecsteele on 2007-01-10
Same problem here.  1.5.0.9 crashes... often... :(

---

### Post by mattotoole on 2007-01-13
It's not just Edgy or Dapper, and it's not just FF 1.5, at least for me.  I'm running Breezy.  Since upgrading I've been unable to run either FF 1.5 or Swiftfox 2.0.  They'll start, but crash at the first link I click on, or when I hit the back button.  Opening links in new windows or tabs works OK.

Since I can't figure out what else to do -- uninstalling and reinstalling both FF and Swiftfox hasn't helped -- I'm running Opera.

---

### Post by madscientist on 2007-01-15
As I said above, the particular crash in FireFox that this thread is referring to is well-understood and has a specific cause, and requires a specific and known set of circumstances to trigger it.  You didn't say what links you were clicking on, so I can't say for sure, but from the info you provided it sounds like you are seeing this on a wide variety of common websites; if so your problem is almost certainly not related to the one others are seeing: that crash happens when trying to visit a site where you have a saved password and there is no username associated with it.

---

### Post by bziman on 2007-01-28
Ubuntu finally released a new update for Firefox 1.5.0.9 on Breezy that fixes this regression.  That took waaaay too long, considering it affected stuff like e-mail access and bill pay sites, and that it was identified weeks ago.

-brian

---

### Post by Rbleattler on 2007-11-08
ok so basically theres no absolute way to fix this problem, personally i just requested a CD for gutsy so hopefully everything on thats alot smoother than here on dapper

---

