---
title: "C++"
date: 2010-06-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by n00bl0r14n on 2010-06-07
Is there any compiler that is similar like Bloodshed C++ for Ubuntu?

---

### Post by ThesaurusRex on 2010-06-07
> **n00bl0r14n said:**
> Is there any compiler that is similar like Bloodshed C++ for Ubuntu?

I think you mean an IDE**. Eclipse works really well, but it's pretty heavy software. Just install the C/C++ plugin. Also, I think there might be a Bloodshed beta out for Linux right now.

**If you're just looking for a compiler, simply use g++.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-06-07
you can also try code::blocks

---

### Post by n00bl0r14n on 2010-06-07
I'm unsure what I mean xD

I'm looking for a easy-to-use/good software to write and compile C++ code like Bloddshed.

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-06-07
IDE it is then (Integrated Development Environment), so Eclipse, Code::Blocks and many others.

---

### Post by malangaman on 2010-06-07
Check out this thread. I use QDevelop and Qt 4.6

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1577](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1577)

---

### Post by captain22275 on 2010-06-07
hi iam not sure but i have been trying to learn a coding language and i heard about MonoDevelop iam not sure if its what you want but it's a C++ enviroment

---

### Post by Barafu Albino Cheetah on 2010-06-07
For beginning C++ coding in Linux I recommend QtCreator. Using it for buiseness goals for a year. 
For intermediate try NetBeans. It is somehow similar to Eclipse, but Eclipse is several time more slow and buggy. 
If NetBeanse features aren't good enough for you, you wouldn't be asking that question. 

For compiler, use GCC. Some commercials are better, but the difference is a few % of speed in math, and anti-hacker tricks. Better programming practices would give you more obvious results.

---

### Post by n00bl0r14n on 2010-06-08
Been trying Code>>Blocks and QtCreator. Tried to compile this:

#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

void main()
{
cout << "Test" << endl;
return 0;
}

Don't focus on my code so much.

Code::Blocks: Invalid compiler, skipping...
QtCreator: Gave me some wierd erros, something about G++

What am I doing wrong here?

---

### Post by n00bl0r14n on 2010-06-08
Here is what happens int the picture.

I made a new: Project => C++ Library

What am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by n00bl0r14n on 2011-07-23
Anything you could recommend?

---

