---
title: "UL14.04 32 bit - Can I install fotoxx on 32 bit OS?"
date: 2014-08-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by la.khan on 2014-08-16
Hi, 

When using Win XP SP3, I could use MS Picture Manager to reduce JPGs in size from 3.5-5 MB to 200 KB. In June this year, I have installed UL14.04 32 bit and am enjoying every bit of it. However, the default image viewer or Shotwell software does not allow me to reduce a JPG file size. Any application that is available in stock UL 14.04 that can help me reduce a JPG file size?

When I looked around a little bit on the internet, I found fotoxx meets my need; but, can I install fotoxx on my UL14.04 32 bit OS? Or, will fotoxx work only on 64 bit OS?

Hardware configuration: Dell Inspiron 1525; Intel Core 2 Duo; T5800 @ 2 GHz; 150GB HDD; 3 GB RAM
OS: UL 14.04 (32 bit); Win XP SP3 (32 bit)

Any opinions & experiences from users are welcome! Thx!

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-08-16
Install **imagemagick** and use the **convert** utility.

```
#!/bin/bash
QUAL=40

for img in "$@"; do
  NEW=${img/%.???/-opt.jpg}
  echo " Working on $img ..."
  convert -quality $QUAL  "$img"  "$NEW"
done
echo "rename 's/-opt.jpg/.jpg/g' "
```
is how I do it.  Works with wildcards and no GUI necessary.  Modify the QUAL as you like to see what works for you, different images can be compressed to different levels - some use 20 and others need 70 to still look good.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2014-08-16
You want a photo manager where you can modify large amounts of photos - so if you had 20 you needed to scale specifically, batch process them. Hmm.... what about RawTherapee - it feels like Adobe Lightroom, had RAW processing support, but also batch support and more. It's really neat.

---

### Post by kornelixgmx.de on 2014-08-18
Check the website for Fotoxx: [www.kornelix.com/fotoxx](www.kornelix.com/fotoxx)
Both 32 bit and 64 bit packages are available.
It also has a batch converter that can reduce image sizes.

---

### Post by la.khan on 2014-08-19
Hi all,

Thanks for the suggestions. Fotoxx was my first preference to go with, but as per fotoxx's website, they recommend that fotoxx be installed in UL 64 bit as 32 bit OS runs out of memory space and can crash fotoxx application. Since I have an UL 14.04 32 bit installation, I was hesitant to go with fotoxx.

I have tried image magick as TheFu suggested; however, I found the GUI unwieldy and not intuitive (forgive me, as I am from Windows :-))

I searched in Ubuntu software centre and it lists Fotoxx 12.04; I figured the software centre lists software that is compatible to my OS installation and I have installed fotoxx 12.04. It has plenty of functionality and it does resize JPGs.

Thanks for all your help/suggestions! :P

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-08-19
imagemagick has a GUI? Never heard of that.
May need to look at that ... someday.

---

