---
title: "12.04 upgrade problems"
date: 2012-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-04-28
just upgraded to 12.04 from 11.10 and system will not reboot
any help greatly appreciated
thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-04-28
Post link to Boot info that this creates.

Boot Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or Create BootInfo report & post the link to a run of boot info script so we can see your exact configuration.

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-04-29
burned boot-repair on cd and used on machine, but cd would not boot into burn repair software to make repair; machine continues to try and boot into ubunto 11.10.
I'am able to enter recovery through ESC but need command to repair problem if possible; can you provide any that might help;
thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-04-29
Did you burn CD correctly(not copy ISO to CD) and at slowest speed possible? Bad burns are usually the reason for CDs not working.

You can download program into an Ubuntu liveCD also.

If you can get to command line. Normally I post these, for use after you chroot into a system.

#Then run whatever other commands needed - no sudo needed if chroot (maybe good to run "df- H" and "cat /etc/issue" to be certain #you mounted the correct partition).
#Commands once in chroot:
#if not chroot use: sudo -i
#houseclean
apt-get autoclean   # only removes files that cannot be downloaded anymore (obsolete)
apt-get clean
#refresh
apt-get update #resync package index
apt-get upgrade #newest versions of all packages, update must be run first
#would upgrade you to the latest kernel in the repositories
#dist-upgrade is also able to remove existing packages if required
apt-get dist-upgrade
apt-get -f install
dpkg --configure -a

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-04-30
tried commands w/out solution; burn of boot-repair as per instructions on ubuntu website; no solution; burned cd-r with ubuntu 12.04 LTS and before complete install wonder how to back up important data?  If can provide help appreciated.
thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-04-30
To back up date now, you need a way to boot or a working liveCD or USB.

Was the command line you get to a grub or grub rescue or the system after login & password?

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-01
Before password;
many thanks

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-01
using system recue cd and the nidori web browser contained to login now to forums w/ aforementioned problem machine; software has cd/dvd burnig capability; I have a usb external cd/dvd portable drive from where to burn cd's for backup;
do you know how to backup using this system rescue software as described;
thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-01
Not real familiar with System Rescue. Does it have a file browser. You should just be able to copy & paste.

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-02
the 12.04 apparently is already installed; the new 12.04 installation cd wants to partion HD with the one already installed;
is there anyway to boot computer into 12.04 instead of continued booting into 11.10 with neither one showing up at the end?
thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-02
If you want to reinstall 12.04, you can just by using manual install or something else and selecting the same partitions as 12.04 is now using.

You should also be able to reinstall grub2's boot loader to the MBR.

Reinstall grub2 - Short version & full chroot version
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20GRUB2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20GRUB2)
Grub2 info & full chroot version - also see METHOD 3 - CHROOT:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Recover%20Grub%202%20via%20LiveCD](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Recover%20Grub%202%20via%20LiveCD)
How to restore the Ubuntu/XP/Vista/7 bootloader (Updated for Ubuntu 9.10 and later with grub2) by talsemgeest
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708)

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-05
i'am getting the following error message:

usr/bin/dpkg  error code (2)

can fixing this error reboot computer?

thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-05
I am not  familiar with that error. Where are you getting it? Installing, updating, reinstalling grub2's boot loader. From what command?

dpkg is related to packages.

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-05
apparently i have grub 0.97;
on trying to install grub from command: sudo apt-get install grub-pc,
I get sub-process usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (2).
your ideas are helpful and i think getting closer to Resolution.
thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-05
Where did grub legacy (0.97) come from everything now is grub2 (or 1.97 thru 1.99)?

Where are you running this? It needs to be from inside your install by booting or chrooting into it.
sudo apt-get install grub-pc

chroot & grub uninstall & reinstall -drs305
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-07
I reinstalled Grub from live 12.04 CD; the 1.99 Grub console comes on now from where I can visit recovery;
the end result being desktop and or password input don't show up; the problem persists;
any other ideas greatly appreciated;
apparently the update that came through on my working 11.10 was flawed.

many thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-07
Does recovery boot you to a command line or let you run some updates?

What video card do you have?

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-08
Recovery sends me to the recovery menu where I can choose root, which takes me to the root command prompt;
I have video EGA/VGA w/ an AGP aperture size of 64 M;
I have made updates at the terminal from w/in the 12.04 live CD;
All ideas greatly appreciated;
many thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-08
I do not know how to start gui anymore

It used to be:
startx
Then it was:
#or now preferred to restart gdm, I have seen all of these as preferred but do not know if one is better or not.
sudo service gdm start
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart

Then some have posted these:
sudo start gdm
sudo start lightdm
Ubuntu 11.10 uses lightdm in place of gdm in earlier versions. So the command would be 'sudo service lightdm restart'

Are you running full Ubuntu or a lighter weight versions like Lubuntu or Xubuntu? Your video card sounds like it is older and full Ubuntu is more full featured and needs a bit more horsepower. Also how much RAM do you have?

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-10
tried boot repair from inside live ubuntu 12.04 lts cd and though it did not work sent links and got respose to insert source.list but not sure on how to do the insertion. any ideas, great.

the message reads: 

please replace the /etc/apt/sources.list located in your installed Ubuntu (sda1) by the one attached. (you may need the "gksu nautilus" command)

Then retry the "Recommended repair" of Boot-Repair, and indicate me the new URL that will appear.

many thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-10
It seems your soures.list which is where Ubuntu goes to find your updates is broken. It wants you to replace your old list. 

Did your update not complete and sources.list is corrupted?

You can post this so we can see your sources.list.

```
cat /etc/apt/sources.list
```

Copy & paste, then highlight and click on # in edit panel above message to put into code tags. That preserves any formatting and makes it easier to read.

You can also backup your current sources.list

```
cp /etc/apt/sources.list ~/sources.list.backup
```

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-15
After all the machine reboots to GRUB> prompt.
Any code that might reboot to the 12.04 LTS greatly appreciated.
Your last codes gave back command not found.
With live CD of 12.04 I found all my files, need a way to save them somewhere. I tried Carbonite but no linux support there.
many thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-15
If you can see your files from the liveCD, you should just be able to copy files & folders from the liveCD to another device, flash drive or hard drive.

Most of these are from a working copy, not sure how they work from liveCD.
discussion of alternatives/strategy:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem)

I still think Boot-Repair would fix system.

But if it is just a grub issue this can by-pass grub and boot an otherwise working system.

[http://www.supergrubdisk.org/](http://www.supergrubdisk.org/)

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-16
the supergrub2disk cannot fix problem; I get unrecognized fs on loading.
I'am now using the rescatux cd from same website and wonder how to use it for puposes of system recue; are you familia?
thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-16
I have not run supergrub or any of the newer versions for ages. I probably should just to learn what it can do.

Is this an old system, or is CD/DVD not working well. Normally all the repairCDs boot without issue. Ubuntu sometimes needs boot parameters particularly for video issues with nVidia. Some very old systems or very new systems need other boot parameters to boot.

How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-16
If I save the Home folder from my hard drive, still clearly visible and reacheable, from live Ubuntu 12.04 CD, would it include email inbox folders and contacts plus thunderbird bookmarks?
many thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-16
They are in hidden files & folders (starts with . ), so be sure to include the hidden files & folders.

I keep my Firefox & Thunderbird profiles in a separate data partition so I can share with my different installs. I also copy profiles to my laptop when I travel, so you can easily copy them and reuse. You may have to reset startup or profile.ini on first boot.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2012-05-16
> **oldfred said:**
> Did you burn CD correctly(not copy ISO to CD) **and at slowest speed possible**? Bad burns are usually the reason for CDs not working.
That is a myth that should have died LONG ago....

[http://www.digitalfaq.com/guides/media/dvd-media-concepts.htm](http://www.digitalfaq.com/guides/media/dvd-media-concepts.htm)
> **Myth of burning slower.**
Discs are made to perform at  an ideal rotational speed, which is where write strategy originates.  The disc will perform best up to a certain speed, and the drive will not  permit any faster. The inverse is the same, but until recently, drives  would not prevent unreasonably low speeds. Modern human nature tends to  want more speed and more power, so this was not really a concern.

 But believe it or not, there are still people who insist on waiting  55-60 minutes to burn a CD or DVD at 1x speed, because they are  convinced anything faster will yield a bad or &#8220;lower&#8221; quality burn.  However, burning too slow is often just as bad as burning too fast.  Because of this unreasonable impulse to go too slow, some discs and  drives now block out the lower range too (and causes problems, see the  16x section for more).

 There was some truth to that statement in the beginning, (circa 1995  for CD-R, 2001 for DVD-R), but those days are long gone. The only reason  that myth ever held truth was because 2x was the fastest speed, and  burning a single full or half speed under the maximum rating is helpful  on lower quality blank CD/DVD media. If you are worried about quality,  or if the media tends to be dodgy quality at the maximum rated speed,  then burn a full or half step slower. No more. With a 8x disc, for  example, a burn speed of 4x or 6x would be optimal.


---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-05-18
As recovery failed new installation was attempted with live 12.04 LTS Ubuntu CD;
I saved essential files on flash drive and clicked install.
Well new installation failed as well, and the message given: installer encountered unrecoverable error. 
Any ideas to proceed with new installation greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-05-18
Some have had better luck with the alternative installer. It is text based.

[http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/alternative-download)

---

### Post by lamdis on 2012-06-15
Well, apparently, the new Ubuntu 12.04 upgrade altered voltage and damaged controllers in motherboard, causing crash.
The solution came with new slightly upgraded motherboard and power supply, allowing for a no problem installation of Ubuntu 12.04.
Problem solved..
 
many thanks

---

