---
title: "9.04 video driver/synaptic problems"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cschoeps on 2009-04-24
Hi all,

I just did a clean install of the new 9.04 on my system, with a few problems. I can't enable desktop effects because there is no restricted driver installed (I have an Asus 7200GS video card), and the restricted drivers manager says that there are none to use. 

In synaptic, it doesn't seem like I am able to search for everything that I used to see. All of the repositories are enabled and I have reloaded. Things like the compiz-settings-manager and mozilla thunderbird aren't there at all. Neither is avant-window-manager. The system also does not tell me that there are updates to install (when I open the Update Manager there are 7 updates).

Otherwise, everything runs great, really quick. 

AMD Athlon 64+ 3500
Asus 7200GS
ASRock 939 Dual SataII MoBo
2GB Ram

---

### Post by cschoeps on 2009-04-24
I installed the nVidia 180 drivers manually, and when it comes back the proprietary drivers manager recognizes my video card, and gives me the option to install the drivers. However when I try to install it, it just sits at 0% forever and doesn't download. 

Synaptic still isn't showing anything fun. no envy, avant-window-navigator, or amarok either.

Edit - The new driver says its installed. When I restart it says it is in use, but then I can't enable extra effects. I don't think it actually installed, and have since removed it and went back to installing the driver myself.

---

### Post by cschoeps on 2009-04-24
No one has any ideas? I'm thinking about downgrading again...

When I try to run sudo apt-get install thunderbird in a terminal, it finds the package and goes to install it. It hangs at 0% when trying to connect to us.archive.ubuntu.com. Could this be the same reason the drivers don't download? Finally it connects and downloads. Why would Ubu find thunderbird in a terminal but not in synaptec?

---

