---
title: "9.10 mysterious process issue"
date: 2009-10-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by neeldhara on 2009-10-10
Hi,

Evidently there's a curious process that keeps jumping in and out of the list displayed by gnome-system-monitor. It causes my mouse cursor to blink all the time (except when I'm within an app and am clear of the window borders). My CPU resource usage is well over 50% all the time. When I logout, I'm told that an "unknown process" is still running and gives me a friendly warning about how not waiting for it to finish could lead to data loss. I've restarted a fair number of times, to no avail. 

I'm not sure what information would be useful to post up here in this context, but I could use some help :(


If anyone's run into anything similar (vague and desperate googling and pings at #ubuntu+1 didn't help to the point of resolving the problem), and you managed to fix it, please let me know how! I really want my lovely new install back! And I'm averse to a reinstall because I just setup my four wallpapers and the 50-odd apps that I normally use :)


Cheers,
Neel

---

### Post by delcypher on 2009-10-10
Sorry I'm not an expert but you may be able to help others by giving a list of processes running. There's a chance that you may catch the program running when you run it.

In the terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal) run
```
pstree > pstree_output.txt
ps -AF > ps_output.txt
```

then attach the outputed files pstree_output.txt and ps_output.txt to your next post.

You could also try this slightly crazy looking command.

```
diff -u <(ps -A | sort | grep -vE '(sort)|(grep)|(diff)|(ps)|(bash)') <(ps -A | sort | grep -vE '(sort)|(grep)|(diff)|(ps)|(bash)')
```

This command should compare the list of running programs and slightly different times. Paste it into your terminal and keep running it and see if you get an output (if you press up in the terminal it will redisplay the previous command). I can't guarantee this will work though.

---

### Post by neeldhara on 2009-10-10
@delcypher: Thank you! Knowing what I should post is a great deal of a help. 

Attached are the outputs from pstree and ps. The diff yields:

```
--- /dev/fd/63    2009-10-10 20:45:48.437507594 +0530
+++ /dev/fd/62    2009-10-10 20:45:48.437507594 +0530
@@ -80,7 +80,6 @@
    30 ?        00:00:00 khungtaskd
     3 ?        00:00:00 migration/0
 30031 ?        00:00:00 nautilus
-30035 ?        00:00:00 nautilus
    31 ?        00:00:00 pdflush
    32 ?        00:00:00 pdflush
    33 ?        00:00:00 kswapd0
```Like I said, this seems to be the weirdest thing I've encountered in a while... I should be very curious about any fixes that come up!

---

### Post by delcypher on 2009-10-10
I don't think my diff command helped. All it tells me is that at one period in time nautilus (that's your file manager) was running with PID:30035 and at another moment in time it wasn't. It could be your troublesome program but it probably isn't.

Trouble is if you ran than commands I gave you at the wrong time, this "program" that keeps running then disappearing might not show up.

You could try a slight variation on the diff command I posted
```
diff -u <(ps -A | sort | grep -vE '(sleep)|(sort)|(grep)|(diff)|(ps)|(bash)') <( sleep 3 ; ps -A | sort | grep -vE '(sleep)|(sort)|(grep)|(diff)|(ps)|(bash)')
```
This does the same thing except there's at least a 3 second delay between the two different program listings (change the number in front of sleep to what you want).

Hopefully someone who knows a little more than me can help you out because I'm not that good.

---

### Post by neeldhara on 2009-10-10
Eh... my "issue" is solved as mysteriously as it started :|

I uninstalled gnome-do, and tried logging out, gave me the warning about an unknown process and I cancelled the logout... and somehow all's back to normal. *shrug*!

Also, in a fit of adventure, I re-installed gnome do and things still seem fine, so it must be something... completely strange :) I hope nobody encounters this!

---

### Post by neeldhara on 2009-10-10
@delcypher: Thank you again :) Really appreciate the help, although it seems that my issue is resolved, and I can't be particularly useful to anyone either because the resolution is about as mysterious as the issue itself. Sighs! 

But I'm so happy, and thanks for the pointers again!

---

