---
title: "help I'm an idiot (workspace/desktop problems)"
date: 2008-03-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by will.fries on 2008-03-27
hey,
:confused:
i'm quite the noob(is it even cool to say that anymore?)

I came home one day and my computer was missing my workspace.
so i rebooted.
and now it look like its in safe mode(or something similar)
and still no extra workspaces.

when i restarted again.  my sign-in text(for my username/password) was super small(could not read)

how do i fix all this?

[IMG]http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3171/2367009443_6528aeba3b_o.png[/IMG]
[IMG]http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3006/2367844232_e526ce0eb9_o.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-03-27
Not exactly sure what you are asking, so if I am wrong here, please clarify, but from the pictures it looks like your resolution is set low.

What is your screen resolution? **System** -> **Preferences** -> **Screen Resolution**

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-03-27
And as far as your extra workspaces:

1) Right-click on your bottom panel and choose **Add to panel...**
2) Under the **Desktop and Windows** section, *left-click* on **Workspace Switcher** and drag it to the panel where you want it to be.

You can then *right-click* on that panel item, choose **Preferences**, and set how many workspaces you want.

---

### Post by i-am-me on 2008-03-27
Ok, from the looks of it, you're just missing the applet to switch desktops. Right click the panel, click Add to Panel... and then under desktop and windows, enable the desktop switcher (double-click)


Edit: Never mind, munkyeetr got to it before me.

---

### Post by will.fries on 2008-03-27
well the screen is on the highest resolution option i have
640xsoemthing (im not infront of it at the moment)
so the question would be 2 part (2)how do i improve the resolution (i.e. see more on the screen)?
(2)how do i bring my extra workspace back?

my concern is that this just seems random, i wasn;t even poking around(that i can remember). i just restarted like this this morning.

what can i do to help you help me?

---

### Post by i-am-me on 2008-03-27
> **will.fries said:**
> well the screen is on the highest resolution option i have
640xsoemthing (im not infront of it at the moment)
so the question would be 2 part (2)how do i improve the resolution (i.e. see more on the screen)?
(2)how do i bring my extra workspace back?

my concern is that this just seems random, i wasn;t even poking around(that i can remember). i just restarted like this this morning.

what can i do to help you help me?

Whoa........ unless that monitor is *really* bad, that (the resolution being a max of 640x480) should not be happening. Are you sure? munkyeetr has already answered both of your questions, so yea.

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-03-27
So this obviously just happened, and it was working fine prior. I would check the Restricted Drivers Manager and make sure you have drivers enabled.

1) **System** -> **Administration** -> **Restricted Driver Manager**

---

### Post by will.fries on 2008-03-27
let me guys get back to you when i can get to my computer more easily.


thanks for all the help!!!!
 i'lll let you know what works!

---

### Post by will.fries on 2008-03-28
[IMG]http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3050/2368480416_161f714302_o.png[/IMG] 

[IMG]http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3184/2368480308_e37053d512_o.png[/IMG]

this is what i got
640 is my highest resolution option
and to add another i would need a driver
which i don't have

---

### Post by munkyeetr on 2008-03-28
Can you please copy the contents of **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** file and post it here.

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-03-28
I would say your monitor is not being detected properly. In the Screen and Graphics Preferences pane hit the Model menu button (the one that says 'Plug and Play'). I think then you'll get a 'detect' button. If it properly detects your monitor sync values then you should have a better range of resolutions to choose from.

Or if you happen to know your monitor's sync values then you can enter them manually on the same screen.

Sometimes neither of the above work and you can, from a terminal, type 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg' and that will reset things for you. Restart gdm (or reboot) to see the changes.

Lastly, you could edit (i.e., 'gksu gedit' or 'sudo nano') the sync ranges in your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file, but that's if you know what you're doing, and it sounds like that may not be a great option for you at this point.

db

---

### Post by will.fries on 2008-03-28
umm ok what is this?
is it stupid to ask if ubuntu gets viruses?

this is really still my first week of linux/ubuntu still.

here's you list
:
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
	Fontpath	"/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
	# path to defoma fonts
	Fontpath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"i2c"
	Load		"bitmap"
	Load		"ddc"
	Load		"extmod"
	Load		"freetype"
	Load		"int10"
	Load		"vbe"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation NV11DDR [GeForce2 MX200]"
	Boardname	"nv"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"E17CRT1"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation NV11DDR [GeForce2 MX200]"
	Monitor		"E17CRT1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"nv"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-03-28
That's your xorg.conf file. Close it and try one of the other options I outlined. You need to reopen the 'Screen and Graphics Preferences' control panel and select your monitor. If your monitor isn't listed then do one of the following:

a) select a monitor with a maximum resolution that is equal to yours

-or-

b) manually enter your monitor's vsync and hsync values, which you can find in the manual or on the manufacturer's web site.

Do one of the above and you should have a broader selection of screen resolutions to choose from. It may prompt you to log out and back in again to make the change.

db

---

### Post by will.fries on 2008-03-28
i tried to do that and it asks me for a driver file which i don't know where to find or even if i have it?
[IMG]http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3191/2368529078_db144b5ba6_o.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-03-28
Did you try the 'Detect' button?

db

---

### Post by will.fries on 2008-03-29
every time i hit detect it just goes to plug n play.

so i suppose @ this point,
My question is
where/how do i add/obtain the necessary drivers?

for either a hp pavilion mx704 or a esa e17crt1?

or change it back to state it was in before?

---

### Post by clarknova on 2008-03-29
A display driver does nothing more than provide the x server with information about your monitor's vertical and horizontal refresh rate. See link:

[http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?lc=en&cc=ca&product=424352&dlc=en&docname=c00217758](http://h10025.www1.hp.com/ewfrf/wc/document?lc=en&cc=ca&product=424352&dlc=en&docname=c00217758)

According to that page, your refresh rates are 30-70, 50-140. Put those values in and you should be in business (on the HP). Let us know.

db

---

### Post by will.fries on 2008-03-29
SUCCESS!

THANKS VERY MUCH TO ALL OF YOU WHO HELP.

consider me in a 
small debt to you.

-Will 
( i can hoook people in the portland area up with stuff) pm me

---

