---
title: "9.04 Problems with Desktop Sharing"
date: 2009-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kabbink on 2009-05-08
Hey guys,

I just installed 9.04 for an HTPC and am having some trouble getting remote desktop sharing setup.  I have enabled sharing and the box that says "Allow others to control your desktop" is checked.

I am using RealVNC on windows to connect and am able to connect fine.  When I connect the desktop shows as normal but nothing seems to respond to my mouse clicks.  When I look on the HTPC box itself it is in fact responding to clicks but for some reason RealVNC on the windows side is not reflecting the changes to the screen.  

It is like RealVNC loads one image of the desktop and then does not update.

I am able to use RealVNC to connect to my other server (also running windows) fine.

Also it doesn't APPEAR to be a problem with a slow network as downloads etc. are all nice and fast.

Any ideas?

Thanks!

---

### Post by kabbink on 2009-05-08
I just tried this with TightVNC with the same result so I don't think the problem is with my VNC viewer.

Any ideas are appreciated!

Thanks!

---

### Post by kabbink on 2009-05-08
This problem almost definitely has to do with nVidia drivers.

I tried removing the NVIdIA accelerated graphics driver (version 180) and VNC now works fine.  

I also tried with version 173 and had the same problem.  

Is this a bug?  Should I try some different drivers?  I am using a Gigabyte GA-E7AUM mobo with a GeForce 9400 integrated.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-05-08
> **kabbink said:**
>  Is this a bug?  Should I try some different drivers?

Good that you found out the cause so quickly. These links seem related to your issue :
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vnc/+bug/77442](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vnc/+bug/77442)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vino/+bug/353126](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/vino/+bug/353126)

---

