---
title: "[SOLVED] /media/disk owned by root"
date: 2008-07-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-07-31
I wanted to change this to owned by scott
So I
ran gksudo nautilus
opened up permissions on /media/disk
right clicked changed permissions to scott
set it to apply to subfolders
clicked ok

And the /media/disk folder is now blank!
I can still see the disk from places - 125 GB Media

so what did I do wrong?

here is my current fstab
```

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=d6269386-1a91-432d-9014-cce8e93eb891 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=f0c3f9d6-39e2-4bf4-8d9c-03e28e2b8ad3 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0

```

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-07-31
/media/disk is not listed in your fstab. 

Is it a USB drive? What file system type (format) is it? 
The method to set permissions vary depending on the mounted partition's file system type.

Post the output of ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` and highlight the partition you are trying to change the permissions of.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-07-31
It sure is not listed
Was it listed before?

the partition I want changed is sda1, which is my windowsxp partition.
I did not have to do any of this before, so I dont know how it became owned by root, and I dont know why I had to edit fstab.

I followed this and it is now mounted again in /media/disk but is still owned by root.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4803348&postcount=18](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4803348&postcount=18)```

scott@scott-desktop:~$ sudo fdisk -l
[sudo] password for scott: 

Disk /dev/sda: 200.0 GB, 200049647616 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 24321 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x8f8000b1

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       15260   122575918+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           15261       24133    71272372+  83  Linux
/dev/sda3           24134       24321     1510110    5  Extended
/dev/sda5           24134       24321     1510078+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
scott@scott-desktop:~$ 


```

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2008-07-31
according to the guide the owner is root and the group is plugdev(gid=46).
the permissions are:
owner(root): read/write/execute
group(plugdev): read/write/execute
other: none

if your user is in the plugdev group, then you have read/write/execute permissions on the partition.

use:
```
groups
```to check it.

to add users to the plugdev group:
```
sudo addgroup *username* plugdev
```if you want to change the owner(i don't see any reason), change the options in the fstab:
> defaults,umask=007,uid=*userename*,gid=*username*

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-07-31
scott@scott-desktop:~$ sudo addgroup scott plugdev
[sudo] password for scott: 
The user `scott' is already a member of `plugdev'.
scott@scott-desktop:~$ 

so, If I am already a member but still dont have write permissions?

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2008-07-31
post the output from:
```
mount
```

EDIT: remount the partition:
```
sudo umount /dev/sda1
sudo mount -a
```

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-07-31
sorry I do have write permissions, I got frustrated with having to edit fstab originally.
somehow, this mount in /media/disk was locked (a little red lock icon visible).So I thought I needed to change ownership and that is how this all started. But it used to not have the lock and then it did and I dont recall doing anything to change that.

I dont recall ever having to edit fstab with hardy and now I wonder if it will automount new drives.


I dont need anything to do with uuid in fstab for this partition?

scott@scott-desktop:~$ mount
/dev/sda2 on / type ext3 (rw,errors=remount-ro)
proc on /proc type proc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
/sys on /sys type sysfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)
varrun on /var/run type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755)
varlock on /var/lock type tmpfs (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777)
udev on /dev type tmpfs (rw,mode=0755)
devshm on /dev/shm type tmpfs (rw)
devpts on /dev/pts type devpts (rw,gid=5,mode=620)
lrm on /lib/modules/2.6.24-19-generic/volatile type tmpfs (rw)
/dev/sda1 on /media/disk type fuseblk (rw,nosuid,nodev,noatime,allow_other,default_permissions,blksize=512)
securityfs on /sys/kernel/security type securityfs (rw)
rpc_pipefs on /var/lib/nfs/rpc_pipefs type rpc_pipefs (rw)
capifs on /dev/capi type capifs (rw,mode=0666)
nfsd on /proc/fs/nfsd type nfsd (rw)
binfmt_misc on /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc type binfmt_misc (rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev)

---

### Post by 3rods on 2008-07-31
I had something similar happen when I first got going in linux. I mounted a drive over another drive and I couldn't list the contents. Once I figured that out, created a new mount point and remounted the drive there, all was well. 

Also, your mount points should be owned by root. The drive 'contents' can be owned by whomever, but the mount point should be owned by root. I've never had any luck getting drives to mount as a particular user in fstab.

/2 cents

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2008-10-06
I think once you change the permissions on the drive, you have to unmount and remount the drive to see the new permission changes.

(I think what I did was gksudo nautilus, goto the drive change permissions, unmount and remount.)

---

