---
title: "10.04 - Can't boot or mount"
date: 2011-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by blent07 on 2011-02-03
Using 10.04 on a Dell mini10v (Inspiron 1101), one evening it simply wouldn't boot. It drops into BusyBox and gives me the following (hand-copied, so there might be a few typos): 


> BUG: unable to handle kernel paging request at 00fbd000
IP: [<c035c35a.] __percpu_counter_sum+0x2a/0x70
*pde = 3e3bb067
last sysfs file: /sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1f.2/host0/target0:0:0/0:0:0:0/block/sda/sda5/uevent
Modules linked in: r8169 mii

Pid: 288, comm: exe Not tainted (2.6.32-38-generic #55-Ubuntu) Inspiron 1101
EIP: 0060: [<c035c35a.] EFLAGS: 0010293 CPU: 0
EIP is at __percpu_counter_sum+0x2a/0x70
EAX: 0000000 EBX: 00000 ECX: 00fbd000 EDX: 000000
ESI: 0000000  EDI: f682f094 EBP: f6a5fd78 ESP: f6a5fdfc
DS: 007b ES: 007b FS: 00d8 GS: 00e0 SS: 0068
Process exe (pid: 288, ti=fa5e000 task=fa93fc0 task.ti=f6a5e000)
Stack: 
numbers and letters like above...
Call Trace: 
? ext4_commit_supersa;fjsakf;lsf
? sadfjlsakfj;s
?sfjsadfs 
?sjdf;lasj
...etc...
---[ end trace 2ffd493ae81b6b17 ]---
Killed
[     1.472945] usb 1-3: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 3
mount: mounting /dev on /root/dev failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /sys on /root/sys failed: No such file of directory
mount: mounting /proc on /root/proc failed: No such file or directory
Target filesystem doesn't have /sbin/init.
No init found. Try passing init= bootarg.

BusyBox v1.13.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.13.3-1ubuntu11) built-in shell (ash)

(initramfs) [     5.667186] usb 1-3: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice

(initramfs) _

Working blind, I just tried > sh init and got back: 
> mount: mounting none on /sys failed: Device or resource busy
mount: mounting none on /proc failed: Device or resource busy
mount: mounting none on /dev failed: Device or resource busy
Initiating USB Mass Storage driver...
scsi2 : SCSI emulation for USB Mass Storage devices
usbcore: registered new interface driver usb-storage
USB Mass Storage support registerred.
usb-stroage: device found at 3
usb-storage: waiting for device to settle before scanning
usb-storage: device scan complete
scsi 2:0:0:0: Direct-Access    Generic- Multi-Card   1.00PQ: 0 ANSI: 0 CCS
sd 2:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg1 type 0
sd 2:0:0:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI removable disk

If I try either 'cat' and 'more' commands, it just hangs there. 
If I try to mount any of the drives, it also hangs. 
Using a LiveUSB, I tried mounting & opening my hard drive via Nautilus and it will be silent before eventually giving me a No-Reply error. Or if try to mount in Terminal on a LiveUSB, it also hangs. 

I took it to the ITS ppl at my school, who tested the hard drive, memory, and GPU and everything checked out. (My school recently switches IT services companies, and these guys don't cover Linux, so they could only check for hardware issues.)

Finally, should I try to install Ubuntu afresh via LiveUSB or CD, it will get a couple steps in, where it displays a small checklist of things it recommends (at least 2.6 GB space, plugged in, and internet connection), when I hit "Forward" it just hangs yet again. I waited a good solid 10 minutes with nothing happening to be sure. 


Any idea how to proceed? 

Many thanks, 

-Trevor

---

### Post by dabl on 2011-02-03
The part where a Live CD session could not mount the hard drive partitions suggests filesystem corruption, to me.

Use a Live CD and run fsck on all your filesystems (your IT folk could not have done that either, being Linux).  Then see what happens with a boot attempt.  If your Live CD has Gparted on it, just run GParted and then you can right-click on the graphic of each filesystem, and choose "check", and then "Apply" to execute the check.  I personally find the Parted Magic Live CD very helpful for this kind of situation, since it has a mounting and mounting tool on it, as well as some benchmarking packages.

---

### Post by blent07 on 2011-02-03
Using > sudo fsck /dev/sda1 gives me:
> fsck.ext4: Device or resource busy while trying to open /dev/sda1
Filesystem mounted or opened exclusively by another program? 
And I don't have anything open, running, mounted, etc. to the best of my knowledge. 

I'll try Magic Parted when I get back to my apt later.

---

### Post by blent07 on 2011-02-04
So I get the error I mentioned above when trying fsck, and when I boot from Parted Magic LiveUSB, the partition editor also hangs when I open it. It says it's "Scanning all devices..." and continues to do so indefinitely.  

What could that mean? Don't I have to be able to at least scan the hard drive and see the partitions in order to even format the whole thing and start over?

---

### Post by dabl on 2011-02-06
> **blent07 said:**
> 

when I boot from Parted Magic LiveUSB, the partition editor also hangs when I open it. It says it's "Scanning all devices..." and continues to do so indefinitely.  

What could that mean? 

It means there is a problem with your hardware. It could be anything from a loose cable to a fault on the motherboard SATA controller to a crashed hard drive.  You will have to use fault-diagnosis troubleshooting to narrow down the range of possibilities:

-- swap in a different cable to eliminate the cable as a cause
-- try the hard drive in a different computer to eliminate the motherboard as the cause

etc. etc.

---

### Post by blent07 on 2011-02-16
I ended up having to format. No partition manager (e.g. gparted) was able to recognize the existing partitions; they would just hang up whether via GUI or command line. However TestDisk was able to not only recognize the partitions but even sort through the files and allow me to copy over some critical data. 

In the end I had to format and start over. 

Thanks for your help. 

-ta

---

