---
title: "9.10 -&gt; 10.04 upgrade: now I can't suspend..."
date: 2010-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stinkinrich88 on 2010-05-03
Hello.

My PC used to suspend/resume fine when I was using 9.10. Now I have upgraded to 10.04 and it is broken. When I use gnome-do to suspend, nothing happens. When I select suspend from the shutdown menu, it suspends, but doesn't resume (I hit the power button twice and it boots from scratch).

Any ideas?

Thanks

---

### Post by joeyjoejo on 2010-05-03
Hi!

I have a somewhat similar problem with suspend. With mine it seems to work intermittently (about 70% of the time), while the others it just leaves the computer 'half on' with the screen just showing black, but still being on. Hard shut down (i.e. hold power button) is the only thing that works

Hibernate does work.

I wonder if there is maybe a similar cause - it too worked fine on this exact computer with 9.10. I'm using the ATI graphics driver, but no other proprietary drivers. This happens whether I have programs running (including the docked ones at the top right like rythembox). 

Does anything seem similar between our two stories?

Also, after the 'hard' reboot, networking is disabled, until I click to re-enable it.

best,

---

### Post by joeyjoejo on 2010-05-05
I filed this bug report [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/575924](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pm-utils/+bug/575924)

feel free to contribute, hopefully we can get something sorted on it soon-ish.

---

### Post by stinkinrich88 on 2010-05-05
ah sorry dude! I was waiting to try it again after work. Turns out it's working again now! but it doesn't seem as reliable. (still not working in gnome-do).

Sorry, I should've double checked before I posted this thread. Anything else you need to know, just ask.

---

