---
title: "Help with a Presario V6171"
date: 2007-03-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oehtus on 2007-03-24
I recently got this computer and I've been trying all day to solve these problems, and I'm just out of ideas. I searched the forums and I couldn't find anything that helped.

First, my specs:

Model: Presario V6171CL
1 gb RAM, 80 gb HDD
Processor: AMD Turion 64 X2 (1.6 ghz)
Audio: Don't know, and I'm sure it doesn't matter, because it works.
Networking: Ethernet and Modem work fine.
Video: NVIDIA GeForce Go 6150
Wireless: Don't know, and although it is a problem, it's not major because I haven't even bothered trying to fix this yet.

(If there is anything else needed, please say so; I've been awake for close to 40 hours.)

I used the dual-sided DVD that I got out of a magazine, which contained a Ubuntu 6.10 Live CD.

At first, the Ubuntu status bar would appear, and once it was fully loaded, the screen blanked out on me, and... well, it looked like what happened with old NES games when they froze or when the game didn't load quite right. The screen went black, and then the colors just sort of melted away. I know that's not much of a description, but that's the best description that I could come up with. Hopefully you know what I mean.

SO, I played around with the options, and discovered that the problem was easily solved by pressing F4 and specifying a specific resolution instead of vga (which means that my video card doesn't like vga, no?), so I selected 800x600, 24 bit depth.

Once I got the OS installed, I upgraded the video drivers using the built in program manager. That eliminated the funky screen-slowly-becoming-white issue; instead, I got a simple black screen. 

So, I copied the xorg.conf file generated by the Live CD to the hard drive, hoping that this would fix the problem, because those settings worked. They didn't. Which leads me to believe that there's something more than simple X11 settings causing a problem.

I wanted to log into safe mode to play around with the X11 settings some more, when I encountered another problem: the computer hangs at "[17179573.876000] checking TSC synchronization across 2 CPUs:"

I'm stuck here. 
Any help would be greatly appreciated. Would that Alternate CD work?

---

