---
title: "14.04 login loop! Will an upgrade solve it?"
date: 2015-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Seamless in Northampton on 2015-05-19
My Ubuntu Studio 14.04 LTS install has been working perfectly for months. Suddenly, something broke. I think it was the last kernel upgrade. I get two sets of symptoms: with latest kernel, I get the login screen, then a few "system program problem detected" warnings, then an incredibly slow, frozen but not quite, desktop. Then it freezes. With older kernels, I get the dreaded login loop.

I've tried several sets of instructions, and nothing has worked. I think it's got to do with the Nvidia driver. I could, I'm sure, post the problems that are now cropping up with nouveau, etc., but I only halfway have a clue, and I need -- very badly -- my machine to work (got a novel in-progress, and deadlines looming!). At this point, unless there's some reasonably quick fix I know not of, I simply want to reinstall or upgrade. My question is this: if I upgrade, will I solve this problem? I assume so, but you know what they say about assuming! :) 

Also curious about reinstalling, but I don't want to mess with finding partitions, etc. -- I'd rather just upgrade, I think. Everything's backed up recently, and ready to go.

Any advice is appreciated!

---

### Post by efflandt on 2015-05-20
What graphics card/chip and nvidia driver are you trying? And is it a desktop, or laptop with hybrid Intel/Nvidia graphics? Older nvidia cards may not work with newest drivers or newest nvidia cards may not work with older drivers.

For example my GTX 750 Ti with new Maxwell chip would not work with nvidia-current in 14.04 (could not login at all with nouveau, and would get login loops with nvidia-current), but it worked fine with nvidia-331 (or nvidia-331-updates). I am currently running nvidia-331-updates on my laptop and nvidia-349 (from xorg-edgers ppa) on my desktop.

---

### Post by Seamless in Northampton on 2015-05-20
I have a desktop with an old Nvidia Geforce 7300 (LE, I think?). I don't remember which Nvidia driver I was running before, but I uninstalled and reinstalled, and still had the problem. I just uninstalled again, and tried to upgrade to 331-updates, and I got a message about holding broken something-or-others (sorry! -- it's late and all the messages are kind of a whirl after doing this for most of the night). In the meantime, when I hit ctl-alt-f2 and log in, I run okay for a few minutes, then get a message about nouveau and idle, and the screen goes wonky on me until I hit ctl-alt-f2 again. I last installed nvidia-304, but the result was just more of the same.

What's most frustrating is that I have a laundry list of symptoms -- slow, then freeze. Then login loop. In order to stop spending hours I don't have trying to figure it out, I'm wondering about just using ctl-alt-f2 or a disc to upgrade to 15.04. I'd make one more attempt to try a different driver, but I'm quickly running out of time.

Thank you for your reply!

---

### Post by Seamless in Northampton on 2015-05-20
Something I am wondering: if I use commands to install the driver, does that mean the system will use it, or does something else need to happen to force it into action instead of nouveau? (This is what I mean by only halfway knowing about things -- used Ubuntu for a good few years, but I remain in the dark on many fronts, thanks to a working system nearly all that time.)

---

### Post by Seamless in Northampton on 2015-05-20
An update: successfully installed 331-updates. I got login loop.

Discovered that best version for Geforce 7300 appears to be 304. Installed that instead. Got logged in, then back to "system program problem detected" multiple times, along with dramatic slowdown/freeze. This is the most intractable Ubuntu problem I've had in years, unfortunately.

---

