---
title: "Xorg and laptop external display problem"
date: 2009-11-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LaptopU on 2009-11-15
I am having problems using an external monitor on laptop.  If I install 9.10 the max resolution I can see is 800x600, when I need 1280x1024.  If I drop in the xorg.conf from my previous installation, I can get 1280x1024 BUT fn+f7 no longer works to switch on an external monitor.  Before I copied the xorg.conf across fn+f7 worked, but hasn't worked since, and no matter if I delete xorg.conf or not, fn+f7 will not work at all now.

My xorg.conf is below.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1280x1024"
	Horizsync	31.5-64.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "1280x1024@60" 108.0 1280 1328 1440 1688 1024 1025 1028 1066 +hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection




Can anyone help me so I can get my fn+f7 back, or if not help me find a way so I can re-install 9.10 and get 1280x1024 to work without destroying fn+f7?

Thanks.

---

