---
title: "8.10 Bluetooth pairing issue -- BT Mouse won't auto-pair on startup!"
date: 2008-11-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dt_ on 2008-11-19
Hi everyone,

I've run into a problem with a clean install of Intrepid that I didn't have with Hardy or Windows Vista and it's quite an annoyance.

Basically, I have a bluetooth mouse that pairs up just fine with Ubuntu - when I set it up. However, if I turn the mouse off and then turn it on later, it will not pair with my laptop! Also, if I turn off and on the computer and boot into Ubuntu, and turn on my mouse, it won't pair. I have to manually *remove* the device from my Bluetooth devices and re-add it by searching for devices and holding down the button on my mouse to make it search for a computer to pair with.

This is really annoying behavior; it seems similar to what this blogger had [ [http://gerry.ws/2008/11/352/decided-to-stay-on-ubuntu-804.html](http://gerry.ws/2008/11/352/decided-to-stay-on-ubuntu-804.html) ] so maybe it's not an isolated problem. :/

What's causing this problem and how can I fix it?

My system is a Dell XPS M1530 laptop and I'm using a "Dell BT Travel Mouse."

Thanks!

dt_

**EDIT** never mind... found this mentioned in the 'known bugs' list >_< 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=966436](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=966436)

---

### Post by rahduke on 2008-12-24
...bump


i'm having the same issue ubuntu 8.10 fresh install on custom HTPC

---

### Post by HyRax on 2008-12-26
Try [this workaround](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6438656&postcount=6) out - works for me until they get a permanent fix in there.

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-12-26
The bluetooth pairing process is normally manual and once a device is paired and trusted it's automatically detected whenever turned on. To me auto pairing doesn't serve a purpose since pairing is a one event for any PC you use.

---

### Post by HyRax on 2008-12-26
> **fragos said:**
> The bluetooth pairing process is normally manual and once a device is paired and trusted it's automatically detected whenever turned on. To me auto pairing doesn't serve a purpose since pairing is a one event for any PC you use.

He's referring to automatically reconnecting a previously paired device after a reboot, such as your mouse.

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-12-26
Confusion on symantics on my part. What's being called auto-paring is to me reconnecting a previosly paired device. I set all my bluetooth devices as trusted in Ubuntu. Perhaps that's why I dont have these problems. Both my Plantronics headset and my Nokia N810 have none of these issues with my Ubuntu desktop.

---

