---
title: "Can't Modify Resolution Dapper Drake XORG"
date: 2010-01-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cadcam on 2010-01-19
Hello peoples....I like to consider myself a fairly competent person, but i cannot change the resolution for the life of me.  I'm trying to set my screen to 1368x768.  I'm edited the xorg and played with xrandr (v1.1).  The screen resolution GUI in dapper drake only gives me the basic res's and not the 1368 that i need.   I cannot upgrade my ubuntu version (Dapper Drake) for unrelated reasons.  please help   below is a copy of my xorg.conf .  no matter what i do, i get the same resolution in xrandr and the built in GUI screen resultion.


here is my xorg.conf

          # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
 #
 # This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
 # values from the debconf database.
 #
 # Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
 # (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
 #
 # This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
 # if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
 # package.
 #
 # If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
 # again, run the following command:
 #   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
 

(input devices omitted for compactness)


 Section "Device"
     Identifier    "Intel Corporation 945G Integrated Graphics Controller"
     Driver        "i810"
     BusID        "PCI:0:2:0"
     VideoRam    250000
 EndSection
 

 Section "Monitor"
     Identifier    "X183H"
     Option        "DPMS"
     HorizSync    31-160
     VertRefresh    55-160
     # 1368x768 @ 60.00 Hz (GTF) hsync: 47.70 kHz; pclk: 85.86 MHz
     Modeline "1368x768_60.00" 85.86 1368 1440 1584 1800 768 769 772 795 -HSync +Vsync
 EndSection
 

 Section "Screen"
     Identifier    "Default Screen"
     Device        "Intel Corporation 945G Integrated Graphics Controller"
     Monitor        "X183H"
     DefaultDepth    24
     SubSection "Display"
         Depth        24
         Modes        "1368x768_60.00"
     EndSubSection
 EndSection
 

 Section "ServerLayout"
     Identifier    "Default Layout"
     Screen        "Default Screen"
     InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
     InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
     InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
     InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
     InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
 EndSection
 

 Section "DRI"
     Mode    0666
 EndSection

---

### Post by synapsys on 2010-01-19
The desktop version of Dapper Drake has reached EOL (end of life) what is the reason you can't upgrade?

---

### Post by cadcam on 2010-01-19
We use emc (linuxcnc.org) to control one of our cnc machines.  this dapper drake is an integrated version with emc2.  they explain on their website why they only are able to use 2 versions of ubuntu, and i had issues with the other one so we installed dapper drake.  everything works fine except for the new 18.5" monitor looks ridiculous becuase i can't change the res...

---

### Post by michy99 on 2010-01-19
There is probably nothing in Dapper that can handle that monitor. If you want to use new hardware, you need to update to a newer OS.

---

### Post by cadcam on 2010-01-19
allrighty then...  I guess i'll put my swap my desktop monitor for the machine one...  thanks.

---

