---
title: "xorg nvidia resolution cycling"
date: 2009-05-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by snowx1000 on 2009-05-20
This is more of an annoyance, but when booting into Xorg, the resolution cycles from 1920x1080, down to I don't know what (right after nvidia logo), then back up to 1920x1080. Is there any way to just keep it at 1920x1080 at all times?



Xorg.conf:
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Thu Apr 16 19:37:21 PDT 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Thu Jul 17 18:39:19 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "LG W2253"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GT"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-20
1)

```
sudo gedit /etc/usplash.conf
```
Make sure x and y are 1920 and 1080 respectively. Save.

2)
```
sudo update-initramfs -u
```

Try if that helps. If it doesn't help follow instructions below:


------------------------

> **Don1500 said:**
> BTW do you know where I can get a new list of the VGA=XXX values? The one I have is limited.

In Terminal:
```
sudo apt-get install hwinfo
```

Then:
```
sudo hwinfo --framebuffer
```

Find a mode that suits you (I reccomend 24bits).
For example, you could select:
```
Mode 0x0**[COLOR="Red"]3d6[/COLOR]**: 1856x1392 (+7424), 24 bits
```

The part you'll need is **[COLOR="Red"]3d6[/COLOR]** (the last 3 values)

Once you've got that part, close Terminal, open Calculator and select View -> Programming.
Make sure **HEX** is checked. Then type in 3D6. Then check **DEC**.

Now you should get a normal number, which is 982 with 3D6.

That number is the VGA code. Now execute:
```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
```

And find the Ubuntu entry, and add the VGA code like in the example below:
```
title		Ubuntu 9.04 (ONLY ADD THE VGA CODE. DO NOT COPY THIS).
uuid		4b2e9de2-8fa5-4496-998e-ccf552155c0c
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic ro quiet splash **vga=869**
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.28-11-generic
quiet
```

Save, reboot, and see how it goes..

---

### Post by snowx1000 on 2009-05-20
Legace, thanks for the reply. The usplash config did not change anything (tried it a while back). Hwinfo does not list 1920x1080 as an available resolution. It's not the splash screen that is the issue though. Xorg loads (ie gray background, pointer, NVIDIA logo) in 1920x1080, desktop is resized to something that might resemble 640, then back to 1920 before GNOME loads.

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-21
> **snowx1000 said:**
> Legace, thanks for the reply. The usplash config did not change anything (tried it a while back). Hwinfo does not list 1920x1080 as an available resolution. It's not the splash screen that is the issue though. Xorg loads (ie gray background, pointer, NVIDIA logo) in 1920x1080, desktop is resized to something that might resemble 640, then back to 1920 before GNOME loads.

Maybe you could try to change root resolution:
```
sudo -i
gnome-display-properties
```

---

### Post by snowx1000 on 2009-05-21
The root resolution is 1920x1080 too. This only started happening when I switched to a widescreen monitor.

---

