---
title: "Broken internet 10.04 with functioning networking"
date: 2011-04-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by neurogenesis on 2011-04-06
Hi,

As the title of this post suggests internet access is no longer working on my computer, ie wget, ping, apt-get update all return unkown host ([www.google.com](www.google.com) or whatever). 

However the system monitor (Network History) shows that the system  is sending and receiving packets. And what I think is network manager applet shows active network signals for both wireless and ethernet.

I know my laptop has not acquired hardware faults. Since I am posting this message and accessing the internet through the same computer with a Ubuntu live USB start up disk.

I searched through the forums for related posts and tried suggestions. Forinstance 

the /etc/resolv.conf 

file is the same for both live usb system and hard drive system, so it can not be that.

# Generated by NetworkManager
nameserver 79.138.0.180
nameserver 85.8.31.209 


the /etc/network 
interfaces file looks like:

auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

on both systems so it can't be that either.

I also tried:

service network-manager stop

rm /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.state

service network-manager start

and then rebooting. 



sudo lshw -C network

yielded:

  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: NetXtreme BCM5751M Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express
       vendor: Broadcom Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       logical name: eth2
       version: 11
       serial: 00:16:36:12:3b:34
       size: 100MB/s
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm vpd msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=tg3 driverversion=3.102 duplex=full firmware=5751m-v3.46a ip=85.8.9.67 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=100MB/s
       resources: irq:16 memory:b0200000-b020ffff
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       product: PRO/Wireless 2915ABG [Calexico2] Network Connection
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:14:02.0
       logical name: eth3
       version: 05
       serial: 00:13:ce:cc:a8:32
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ipw2200 driverversion=1.2.2kmprq firmware=ABG:9.0.5.27 (Dec 12 2007) ip=192.168.0.141 latency=64 link=no maxlatency=24 mingnt=3 multicast=yes wireless=unassociated
       resources: irq:21 memory:c0002000-c0002fff

I also tried:
$ifconfig 
yielding:
eth2      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:16:36:12:3b:34  
          inet addr:85.8.9.67  Bcast:85.8.9.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::216:36ff:fe12:3b34/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:8 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:346 (346.0 B)  TX bytes:1184 (1.1 KB)
          Interrupt:16 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:12 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:12 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:672 (672.0 B)  TX bytes:672 (672.0 B)

 
I tried the system test (System->Administration->System Test), with only Network tests selected). The results of system test were so extensive I searched for the word internet and extracted lines for internet. Interestingly it says both the network_test and the internet_test are _passed_.

But the internet does not work in either in web browsers or with BASH commands.

And also:

erlang-inets    Erlang/OTP Internet clients and servers

python-twisted-bin    Event-based framework for internet applications
python-twisted-core    Event-based framework for internet applications

network_test    pass     
internet_test    pass 




Thanks for any help or suggestions :)

Russell.

---

### Post by spikoley on 2011-04-08
Who s your internet service provider?  Have you tried rebooting the modem they provided?  What happens when you ping an IP address.  Do you have a router and can you ping it?

---

### Post by neurogenesis on 2011-04-08
Hi Spikoley,

Thanks for your response.

> **spikoley said:**
> Who s your internet service provider?  Have you tried rebooting the modem they provided?  What happens when you ping an IP address.  Do you have a router and can you ping it?

I don't think that its an ISP specific thing, because I can't access wireless internet at University either, though I can access it on the same computer with a USB flash live Ubuntu as I am now.

I will add the results of a ping later (for the sake of completeness of this post) but as I said above it is basically an error message that says unknown host, or host unreachable or something like that (same for $wget and $sudo apt-get update).

Thanks.
Russell.

---

### Post by spikoley on 2011-04-08
Try to get the wired connection working first and run the updates.

---

### Post by neurogenesis on 2011-04-09
> **spikoley said:**
> Try to get the wired connection working first and run the updates.

Thanks for taking an interest in my problem. 

My post is about how can I get any sort of internet working on my laptop, so yes getting a wired connection is still the main part of what I am trying to achieve. My reference to the wireless internet at the University was only a part of deductive reasoning. I was trying to demonstrate that the ISP is not the problem, it is the configuration files on my Linux system. I also have the same problem at a public library or the University library which happens to be wireless. But I can access all three: the wired at home and wireless at University and at the public library all on the same computer with my USB flashdrive live version.

---

