---
title: "Fix Screen Resolution in Jaunty"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jfinner1 on 2009-04-21
I know that this has been asked before, but everything I found was either really outdated, or to complex for me to understand. I just installed Jaunty onto an HP Pavilion dv9700. The highest screen resolution it gives me as an option is 800X600. Everything is Huge! I'm not sure what the screen resolution should be, or how to fix it. I'm also not sure if it's just a quick fix, or something to do with the graphics card. I'm still not that great at all the Linux stuff, so if you could really spell stuff out for me, it'd be much appreciated. Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by sefs on 2009-04-21
if you know the native resolution of your screen maybe you can manually edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf and put your resolution in there.  It's what I had to do temporarily until I figure out why nivida-settings cannot save it's config to xorg.conf...or has problems parsing it.

my xorg.conf now looks like this after a manual edit.  The line I put in was the "Option" line in Section "Screen"

```

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	DefaultDepth	24
        Option         	"metamodes" "1280x1024 +0+0; 1280x1024_60 +0+0; 1152x864 +0+0; 1152x864_60 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 1024x768_60 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by jfinner1 on 2009-04-21
Um, how do I do that, and will it stay the same after reboots and stuff?

---

### Post by sefs on 2009-04-21
> **jfinner1 said:**
> Um, how do I do that, and will it stay the same after reboots and stuff?

Yes it will stay as you would have manually saved it to your xorg.conf file.

To edit xorg.conf ...

```

gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

The above will open the xorg.conf for editing.  BUT you have to know what your resolutions are...those in the example above are resolutions for my machine.  So don't edit the xorg.conf unless you know what you are going to put in there or it can possibly break X.  

Remember its probably just one line you will be changing in your xorg.conf.  That would be the addtion of an options line in the Screen section.  Maybe you should even post what your xorg.conf looks like so we can see first.

In fact before you change anything about it, make a back up of it like so

```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20090421.1 

```

the ".20090421" just means for me the date on which i made the back up and the ".1" is the nth version i made on that date.  So if today is the 23rd of april 2009 and i am backing up xorg.conf for the tenth time today 

```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20090423.10 

```

So if you make a change that break's X11, reboot computer into the terminal and simply reverse the process to get back a working X. That is you will copy the xorg.conf.[datestamp].[verson] backup you made back to your xorg.conf

example:
```

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20090421.1 /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

and reboot.

---

### Post by sefs on 2009-04-21
By the way is your card nvidia? and if so have you enabled the restricted drivers for it?

---

### Post by northern lights on 2009-04-21
Can you please post the output of```
sudo lshw -C display
```?

And before editing *xorg.conf*, I'd recommend trying to switch to your native resolution using```
xrandr -s RESOLUTION
```where RESOLUTION needs to be replaced by i.e. *1680x1050*, or the like.

---

### Post by jfinner1 on 2009-04-22
Ok, here are the two outputs you asked for:
```
  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: GeForce 7150M
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 12
       bus info: pci@0000:00:12.0
       version: a2
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm msi bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
```
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
```

I finally got the computer to dual boot with XP (whole other story there...) so I check the resolution through XP, and it's supposed to be 1024x768. At least, that's what XP has it set as. When I tried to set it through the terminal, it told me "Size 1024x768 not found in available modes". What should I do next?

Thanks for all the help guys.

---

### Post by sefs on 2009-04-22
It does look like you don't have the restricted nvidia drivers activated...and your printout there looks like you have a nvidia card.

Go to System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers

A screen like below should pop up...

In the above section one of the drives listed should be nvidia (and I don't believe its turned on by default) so it should be grey instead of green like mine.

Then somewhere lower down the screen should be a button to activate it.  Then the text in the bottom should read that the driver is activated blah blah...

Activate it and then try to change the resolution thru

System Tools -> nVidia Settings

or 

System -> Administration -> nVidia X Server Settings. 

once in the nvidia settings dialog box its the second option on the left you need...

---

### Post by jfinner1 on 2009-04-22
Woot! Worked like a charm! Thanks a ton!

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-15
I've been suffering with LRS (low res syndrome) for about a month now. When I try to activate the nvidia drivers (1.80.xx) I get a moving progress bar and no result. The activate button continues to remain live (ie: no activation). I tried manually editing my xorg.conf file without success so I am hoping someone will pity my condition and help me. My hardware is a stock Acer AX1700 (ie: 630i/7100 chipset with C2D CPU) and the pci card is a G100 (ie: 9000 series?) The bios has both GPUs active but I am using the DVI connector from what I am assuiming is the pci video card. My xorg.conf below:```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Monitor0"
	Vendorname	"Samsung"
	Modelname	"SyncMaster 950P
	Horizsync	30-96
	Vertrefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Screen0"
	Monitor		"Monitor0"
	Device		"Device0"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Device0"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by northern lights on 2009-07-15
Mkey.

It can't be harmful to have seen the xorg.conf, but from that alone the cause of your problem can't be narrowed down enough.

Please also post the output of```
sudo lshw -C display
```



[EDIT]
I've checked out the AX1700 - it's got several sub-versions (no pun intended), so the above still is important.
However, the most widely spread model does ship with a G100. The latest nvidia Linux driver (185.18.) [supports that model]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/185.18.14/README/appendix-a.html"). I was thinking that the one included in the repos (180.44) might not yet do so. [That however is not the case]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux_display_ia32_180.44.html"), as support for that card had been added just with that revision.

Leaves me asking whether you are running Jaunty or some older release?
Is it up-to-date?
[/EDIT]

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-15
northern lights
Thanks for helping me treat my condition. Sorry, I thought I mentioned that I was running jaunty in my previous post but yes, I have installed all the 'safe' updates since installing from a hash verified download and burn checked copy from ubuntu nearly one month ago. Below is the report:```
 *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: nVidia Corporation
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
```...and the subversion (pun intended this time) is U3700. Was I incorrect in assuming that this is a half height PCI board? Reading about it makes me think it may just be an added port to the on board video.

---

### Post by northern lights on 2009-07-19
Hey man, sorry for not getting back earlier - I was traveling.

The U3700 does indeed ship with a G100.
However, the more interesting part of your output is this```
 *-display [COLOR="Red"]UNCLAIMED [/COLOR]    
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: nVidia Corporation
       vendor: nVidia Corporation
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:02:00.0
       version: a1
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
```Your graphics device is currently not assigned a driver. Make sure *nvidia-glx-180* is installed either via aptitude searching (might as well post output) or installing it right away via```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-180 nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-20
northern lights
Hope you enjoyed your travel but I'm glad that you're back. The driver is installed and the nvidia configuration tool (nvidia-xconfig?) comes up when I boot and when I select "System.Preferences.Display". This is confirmed when I try to reinstall, the message tells me that "nvidia-glx-180 is already the newest version, 0 upgraded, 0 newly installed." The problem from the Xserver log seems to indicate that the nvidia  module is failing in the kernel for some reason. I tried removing and purging and reinstalling without any success. I really don't have a clue why this should be so problematic. Is the G100 a real GPU card or just an interface to the on-board video? Should I disable the on-board video in the bios or should it remain on for some reason?

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-21
northern lights
I disabled the on board video in the bios hoping for a miracle but none occurred. The proprietary driver still refuses to load.

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-23
northern lights
Have I lost you? I am still trying to resolve this on my own but can't find the solution. Is there any reason the jaunty server version would prevent the restricted driver from activating? I'm thinking this may be a "rights" issue but curiously, no dialogue comes up explaining so when I try to activate it with sudo.

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-07-27
northern lights
I considered the possibility that the XD security bit enbaled in the bios might be preventing the driver from loading but when I try to disable it, the machine doesn't even post. Help!

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-08-04
bump

---

### Post by Universal344 on 2009-08-04
Is there an option in your BIOS to restore to factory defaults?  If so try that.

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-08-12
The bios is back to its original configuration. There must be some kind of rights issue preventing the proprietary driver to load but I haven't been able to figure out how to do it. Very frustrating!

---

### Post by yldouright on 2009-09-03
I can't believe it's two months and I still have no solution to this problem. Where is the legendary community support of Ubuntu? Someone please post a working Xconfig for the nvidia G100 on updated Jaunty. Or at the very least explain why the driver refuses to activate.

---

