---
title: "Cant delete symbolic link - it appers again ang again"
date: 2011-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fanysoft on 2011-11-16
Hi,

somehow I made or system made symbolic link in my root directory and I can not get rid of it. 

I can delete link but after refresh it is there immediately again and again.

So problem is : after delete it goes back and I dont know why

I dont think that system or some aplication does this, because I made fresh istalation yesterday and is it still the same.

thank you, Josef

---

### Post by jjex22 on 2011-11-16
hello and welcome to the forums!

You say the link is in the root directory and is automatically generated by the install? 

This [link]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/linux-or-ubuntu-directory-structure.html") gives you a guide to what should be in the root ( / ) directory.

deleting a symlink should be as simple as deleting it - obviously the destination it's linked to will stay, but if it keeps coming back, it's best checking further as to why.

If you're certain it shouldn't be there, you can try removing it with the rm command in terminal.

(open launcher -press windows key or click - and type terminal in serach - it will appear before you finish!) in the terminal use the command

rm /path to symlink

the path should just be /file name if it's in the root directory you can check this with 
cd /
(changes to root directory)
ls
(shows files in current directory)

as the rm command will delete whatever you point it at, it's best to double check you're removing the right thing! also if you get a 'you don't have permission' kind of error, you need to add 'sudo' before 'rm' but be careful - adding sudo tells ubuntu 'i know what i'm doing so do it' so triple check its the right file for the axe!

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2011-11-16
Would you mind posting the symbolic link and target?  It's very odd that it keeps coming back and I do wonder if it's an important link that the system keeps creating.

---

