---
title: "9.10 Netbook Remix - Problem Touchpad/clicks"
date: 2010-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mambo801 on 2010-04-26
Hi i'm a newbie,

Problem: Touchpad doesn't activate my selection point or move over and the clicks don't work either. i can only use the keyboard arrows keys to navigate the menu and use the enter key for a click.

i've just installed the remix onto my Acer TravleMate 6000. I also have XP installed, so i know its not a hardware problem with the touchpad as it work fine in XP.

i know there have been a heap of posts on this but none of them seem to help. I have tried installing gsynaptics. didn't help. I've tried installing gpointing-device-settings from the synaptic package manager, however i assume you need to config via the terminal as there was no menu change. As i said newbie here, i know what the terminal is but unless i'm told what code to put in, i have no idea.

i have also seen a tpconfig in the synaptic package manager, but have not seen any posts about it being used to solve this problem.

After reading the tread "**HOWTO: Fix touchpad, keyboard freeze on resume/thaw for laptops with i8042 controller".**
I believe my laptop is using the i8042 controller, but at this point i'm not having freezing issues.

if anyone could provide some guigeance it would be much appreciated.

cheers
mambo801

---

### Post by mambo801 on 2010-05-07
Problem solved.....sort of!

Well after getting no where with my searching for a solution for the above problem, i've solved it. At least sort of.

I have unistalled the Note Book Remix and installed the Desktop 9.10 version. It works perfectly!!!!!! the touch pad, the clicks,  the whole lot!!

so i'd encourage anyone who is having problems with the notebook remix to download the desktop version. don't install it straight up. run it from the disk _without_ making changes to your computer and test it first to make sure it works perfectly as you want it.

If your happy install it and enjoy the world of Ubuntu.

mambo801

---

