---
title: "13.04 upgrade = empty desktop ( Nvidia card )"
date: 2013-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by malakoffee on 2013-05-05
I think I have found the documented problem AND a possible solution  . . . . .
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/PPC](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/FAQ/PPC) 

Unfortunately the link to the corrective xorg.conf text just leads me to an empty Launchpad scratchpad.
Can anyone help with this please ??


Also I think I need a bit of education . . . .

My startup screen shows the lubuntu logo, but the actual desktop I have been using is LXDE.  ( Although none of the altenative desktops work at the moment. )

---

### Post by Zestypanda on 2013-05-05
Right click, click change desktop. Then from there click the settings (brown box with globe) then select additional drivers, select open source if proprietary are in use, or visa versa. It's a problem that needs to be ironed out in raring.

---

### Post by malakoffee on 2013-05-05
Thanks for the suggestion. Alas, the right-click ( nor left ) do anything, anywhere on the desktop screen.

The screen is completely filled with the desktop background. There are no icons, no bars, nothing !!

---

### Post by Zestypanda on 2013-05-05
Hmm, that is strange. You said that any desktop environment failed to load?

---

### Post by malakoffee on 2013-05-05
I have specifically tested the following desktops : LXDE, Ubuntu, Gnome/Openbox, Gnome, KDE/Openbox, Lubuntu . . . . . 

All of them follow the same pattern : . . . .
A few seconds of whirring of the hard disk, but the screen background remains unchanged. That is all !

---

### Post by malakoffee on 2013-05-05
This is rather experimental - so I don't know if this is the best direction . . . . 

I have downloaded the latest nvidia-313-updates using . . 

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-313-updates
```

That did a lot of processing which seemed to involve the kernel (?)

This next command was supposed to select the 313 driver, but just threw out a load of error messages ( it did not want to work in GUI at all ).

```
sudo software-properties-gtk
``` . . . . did not work!

I have uncommented/reactivated the parameter line in xorg.conf 
Driver "nvidia"

The original showstopping problem remains, but there are changes to the screens running up to the login screen.


In Xorg.0.log the "nvidia module is FOUND! but fails to load . . . . . 
(EE) Nvidia  failed to load the Nvidia kernel module . . . . . check kernel log for more

In kern.log . . . . . 
nvidia module license 'NVIDIA' taints kernel.
NVRM : visit.nvidia.com/object/unix.html

Maybe tomorrow - I've had enough for today.

---

### Post by Marleyx on 2013-06-07
Hi!
I have the same problem with aspire one d270, Intel Corporation Atom Processor integrated graphics controller

Do you find the solution? 

Editing this post: I remove lxdm and lxde and reinstall and now works with lightdm but not with lxdm. Seems to be a problem at Xorg

Thanks from Barcelona, Spain
Marleyx

---

