---
title: "[SOLVED] Please help - Ubuntu Gutsy won't boot!"
date: 2008-04-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by angusmac on 2008-04-13
Hi, I need some help here. I've been running Gutsy 7.10 for a few weeks now, and have all the settings tweaked how I like them

Today I was messing about with the display settings and now the laptop won't boot into the GUI. It gets as far as the black screen where it checks varios things and says 'OK' after each one, but won't go any further.

I'm running the live CD at the moment which is how I'm writing this.

Can anyone please help!!? I'm a bit of a beginner, so keep things simple :)

Thanks in advance!

Laptop specs are in my signature below.

---

### Post by sekinto on 2008-04-13
What settings did you tweak exactly?

---

### Post by angusmac on 2008-04-13
Well I was trying to run the laptop through the TV via s-video, so I opened the 'Screens and Graphics' box in 'Settings', and changed a setting in there. That changed the resolution on the laptop screen, so I changed the setting back, rebooted, then nothing!

Thanks for you quick response by the way!

---

### Post by sekinto on 2008-04-13
Is that the only thing you did?

Maybe something in your xorg file got messed up. Could you tell me the output of this command:
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by angusmac on 2008-04-13
Here it is:

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc101"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Boardname	"intel"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "screen1" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"intel"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection


---

### Post by sekinto on 2008-04-13
I'm not very good when it comes to reading xorg.conf files, but it looks like your monitor is configured to have a 640x480 resolution at 60Hz. Is that your correct resolution?

---

### Post by angusmac on 2008-04-13
No your right, it should be 1280x768@60Hz.

Do I need to change both devices back to the correct resolution (monitor & screen)?

Edit: Also, can I do that from the Live CD or do I need to reboot into rescue mode?

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-04-13
I'd boot to recovery mode and type
```
dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
exit
```
And see if that will cause it to boot to your desktop.  If not, try it again, only leave out the **-phigh** flag to go through the setup step by step.  To be safe, you could choose the Vesa drivers and choose the correct resolutions.  Then when you get to your desktop, you can install the proper video drivers.

---

### Post by sekinto on 2008-04-13
Edit: Make sure to do this stuff from recovery mode and not the live CD or else it won't work properly.

Yeah, first I would try changing the values, if that doesn't work you may want to try the command "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg".

But before you do any of that I highly recomend you back up your xorg.conf file, I see you have some Wacom stuff on there and if you do "dpkg-recofigure xserver-xorg" it may delete that and you might want to add it back later. And it is always good to make a backup before messing with anything critical.

You can back it up on your desktop like this:
cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /home/<youruser>/Desktop/xorg.conf

---

### Post by angusmac on 2008-04-13
Thank you so much, that sorted it! Back into the desktop now, no harm done.

Cheers.

---

### Post by sekinto on 2008-04-13
Glad everything worked out alright. : )

---

