---
title: "8.04 Gnome/X reproducible 'random' crashes, how do I trace the crashes?"
date: 2008-05-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fsando on 2008-05-25
I installed Ubuntu 8.04 a few days ago, after that I've experienced what seems like semi-random crashes.

I've installed SPSS 16. Almost every time I close a window or if I close a menu etc. Gnome/X will crash and return to login screen, sometimes it will hang in the reboot process. In one such instance I changed to another terminal and typed in 'top', X11 was using 100% cpu.

Similar crashes happen in other programs in similar situations when a dialog or a window is closed though not nearly as often. One crash though happened as I was scrolling through a text file with the arrow keys in gedit exactly when I reached the top line gnome crashed.

I can actually produce crashes now quite consistently so I would like to trace those crashes and create some usable debug output I just don't know how - so if someone can give me directions I'd be happy to do something useful.

---

### Post by fsando on 2008-05-25
I've research a bit more

Gnome/X (I don't know which or both) can be consistently crashed on my machine: 
1. open a console (gnome-terminal) 
2. press Backspace (as in delete everything on command line)
3. immediate crash

---

### Post by fsando on 2008-05-25
I've now made a complete reinstall (kept my /home intact though) and random crashes are gone. I'm now keeping a very close eye on the problem after every change I make. If I find something I'll post it here.

---

### Post by fsando on 2008-05-31
Now I know what caused the crashes:

It's related to the wacom driver. I followed this tutorial:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=765915](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=765915)

But downloaded the newest driver (8.02) after the install the system was absolutely unstable.

---

