---
title: "21.04 beta"
date: 2021-04-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thomas_j_marshall2 on 2021-04-11
Was running 20.10 on a 120gb ssd alongside windows 10 but on separate discs.  Had a spare 240 ssd so installed 21.04 beta on that.  I manually partitioned an efi, /, home and swap and was forced to have a grub boot partition.  Install went OK but grub customiser can't pick up windows 10 so I have to use f8 to boot.  What have I done wrong?

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2021-04-11
Grub customizer only sets up GRUB for those too lazy to learn its config. It doesn't pick up installed operating systems. If you run:
```

sudo os-prober

```
What is the output?
Are there any bugs logged against GRUB or the customizer application in Hirsute?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-04-11
Impossible to know for sure but I wonder if you installed the beta 21.04 in UEFI or in legacy/BIOS mode.
You say that you had to create a grub-boot partition and that is usually needed only if booting in BIOS mode but using GPT partitions.
I have no idea about the Windows problem as I don't use it any more but I suspect that if your new OS is using BIOS mode that may mean it can not see the Windows 10 which will certainly be UEFI unless you personally installed it in BIOS mode.

From your Ubuntu  system please run terminal command ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` and show us the output using **Code-Tags** as it makes that output much more easily read and understood, formatting the text as seen in terminal, not as plain text when it is copied and pasted. 
See my signature below for a **How-to**

I would also advise you not to use grub-customiser as it can very easily create many more problems than it solves and it makes it much more difficult for other users to help as it changes or replaces so much of the normal configuration of grub and can make it almost impossible to configure grub in the usual way by manual edits of the various files in ***/etc/default/grub*** and **/etc/grub.d**.

---

### Post by rbmorse on 2021-04-11
If you were "forced" to manually create a grub boot partition, it sounds like the 21.04 installation wasn't completed in full EFI mode.  Did you set the partition table type to GPT when you set up the spare 240 Gb SSD?  

Also, the Ubuntu installer really, really likes to put the boot files on the first ESP detected (generally the Windows BCD).  If you want to install 21.04's ESP on the 240 Gb ssd as appears to be the case, you'll need to remove the ESP flag from the existing ESP (or disconnect the device so the installer doesn't "see" it) and set the ESP flag to the EFI partition on the 21.04 drive before running the installer.  You can (should) reset the flag to the other ESP after you've finished the installation.  You can have more than one ESP in a system, but I'm told best practice is to not have more than one on any given physical device.

---

### Post by thomas_j_marshall2 on 2021-04-11
Thanks for all the replies.  The reason I use grub customiser is because I don't know any other way to get the two on the one menu.  The drive is set to GPT and I'm not sure if the install was efi, I assume so as the pc is only a few months old.  I'll run the commands.

---

### Post by thomas_j_marshall2 on 2021-04-11
```
Disk /dev/sdd: 223.57 GiB, 240057409536 bytes, 468862128 sectors
Disk model: GIGABYTE GP-GSTF
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disklabel type: gpt
Disk identifier: CDA77003-C5DD-49A3-8D55-501972A8E20F

Device         Start       End   Sectors   Size Type
/dev/sdd1       2048    391167    389120   190M BIOS boot
/dev/sdd2    1562624  99219455  97656832  46.6G Linux filesystem
/dev/sdd3   99219456 450781183 351561728 167.6G Linux filesystem
/dev/sdd4  450781184 468860927  18079744   8.6G Linux swap
/dev/sdd5     391168   1562623   1171456   572M EFI System
```

---

### Post by thomas_j_marshall2 on 2021-04-11
There is an efi partition mounted containing folders boot microsoft and ubuntu.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2021-04-11
A bios_grub is only required for BIOS/CSM/Legacy installs on gpt partitioned drives. It normally is 1MB and must be unformatted.

UEFI & BIOS are not compatible.
Once you start booting from UEFI boot menu, you cannot switch boot mode. Or grub can only boot other installs in same boot mode.
Since you have an ESP on sdd, you can just uninstall the BIOS version of grub (grub-pc) and install the UEFI boot version of grub (grub-efi-amd64).
You can just run the commands from inside your install if you can boot.
Often easier with Boot-Repair. Be sure sure to boot live installer in UEFI boot mode. Mode you boot installer in, UEFI or BIOS is then how it installs or repairs. Only Ubiquity installer, installs grub's UEFI boot files to first drive's ESP. Grub can be installed to ESP on any drive, but just not with Ubuntu's Ubiquity installer without a work around.

 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)

---

### Post by thomas_j_marshall2 on 2021-04-11
[QUOTE
You can just run the commands from inside your install if you can boot.
[/QUOTE]Thanks.  What commands do I run?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-04-11
Run command ```
sudo apt install grub-efi-amd64
```
As you have Windows installed you may need to use **grub-efi-amd64-signed** but wait for [COLOR="#FF0000"]**oldfred**[/COLOR] to come back again; I no longer use Windows so I'm not sure if the signed version is necessary or not.

Interestingly, even without Windows, I note that on my Xubuntu 20.04 system I have the signed version of grub installed; perhaps that is now the default, I'm just not sure.

---

### Post by thomas_j_marshall2 on 2021-04-11
Thanks again.  I ran the boot repair and it says the problem is that it's in bios mode so am thinking just easier to re-install?  What do I need to look for at install regarding setting efi?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2021-04-11
I have not done a conversion.
Not sure if just installing the UEFI version of grub is all that is needed, I think it may need grub-install.

I think it will want to know the ESP - efi system partition. And when reinstalling in UEFI mode, you have the ESP mounted via fstab. But a BIOS boot will not mount the ESP. That why I suggested Boot-Repair as it knows all the partitions to mount.

The chroot from a live installer also requires the mount of the ESP. 
 chroot with UEFI, LVM, encryption on NVMe drive
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2349833&p=13602088#post13602088](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2349833&p=13602088#post13602088)
UEFI chroot, must include ESP - efi system partition
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/53578/can-i-install-in-uefi-mode-with-the-alternate-installer/57380#57380](http://askubuntu.com/questions/53578/can-i-install-in-uefi-mode-with-the-alternate-installer/57380#57380)

If you have made a mount point in /boot, and mounted the ESP at /boot/efi. If the only version of grub you have is the the UEFI version.
sudo grub-install --efi-directory=/boot/efi

The fstab entry after install should be this with your UUID:
UUID=xxxxxx  /boot/efi       vfat    umask=0077      0       1
cat /etc/fstab

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-04-11
When you start the computer with the USB attached and choose that device you must choose the one that starts with UEFI.

Depending on how you created the USB install media you may or may not see a non-UEFI option but as you've already done it once and ended up with a BIOS install I suspect you will see that USB listed twice, firstly without the UEFI prefix, then the saame again with the UEFI prefix; you **MUST** choose the UEFI option.

I have not installed on a system with more than a single disk for many years but I think you can now choose Something Else at the partitioning stage and start installing, choosing to use the whole of /dev/sdd for the new OS.
The installer will see the EFI partition on the first disk and add the new OS to that and this time will not need the bios-grub partition that you had last time.

With no information so far on the partitions on the first disk it is difficult to know whether it would be more sensible to separate the /home of this install from root or to use a separate data partition but certainly a 250G disk is huge for a root partition of an OS that may be using data files from another disk.  I do see that the BIOS install on the second disk had two partitions, /dev/sdd2    1562624  99219455  97656832  46.6G Linux filesystem, perhaps the root partition and /dev/sdd3   99219456 450781183 351561728 167.6G Linux filesystem, maybe a /home partition.

If you intend the two Linux systems to use the same data files you may need to use symbolic links from the old to the new systems but wee need to know more about what you want before giiving further detailed suggestions.

---

### Post by thomas_j_marshall2 on 2021-04-11
> **ajgreeny said:**
> With no information so far on the partitions on the first disk it is difficult to know whether it would be more sensible to separate the /home of this install from root or to use a separate data partition but certainly a 250G disk is huge for a root partition of an OS that may be using data files from another disk.  I do see that the BIOS install on the second disk had two partitions, /dev/sdd2    1562624  99219455  97656832  46.6G Linux filesystem, perhaps the root partition and /dev/sdd3   99219456 450781183 351561728 167.6G Linux filesystem, maybe a /home partition.

If you intend the two Linux systems to use the same data files you may need to use symbolic links from the old to the new systems but wee need to know more about what you want before giiving further detailed suggestions.

Thanks.  Sorry, I wasn't very clear, I am not using the 120 gb ssd with ubuntu on it, I'm going to use the 240 gb along with windows already on an nvme.  Sda2 is the 240 mb disk and you are correct, I created / at 50gb and home at 160 odd.  I've set the bios to uefi only so I'll try another install and see how that goes.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2021-04-12
There are two other commands that might remove your need for grub customizer.

```
sudo grub-update
```

That will run a check on all drives for operating systems and create a Grub boot menu with those operating systems in the menu.

```
sudo grub-install /dev/sdx
```

where x is the drive letter. such as sda; sdb; sdc; etc. When we update/upgrade and a new Linux kernel is installed then, update-grub is run so that the new kernel becomes the default kernel to be loaded. The older kernel will be found under Advanced option for Ubuntu.

Regards

---

### Post by thomas_j_marshall2 on 2021-04-12
Thanks for all the help with this, finally got it sorded.  [**[COLOR=#C61919][B]ajgreeny**[/COLOR][/B]]("https://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=27747")**[COLOR=#C61919][B] **[/COLOR][/B]I followed your instructions re choosing efi and it all went smoothly , I must have selected the bios option.**[COLOR=#C61919][B]**[/COLOR][/B]

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-04-12
Great news! 

Please mark as SOLVED from the Thread Tools menu up-top if this is now solved to your satisfaction. It is a great help to other users searching the forum.

---

