---
title: "22.04. How to control brightness via CLI/Terminal?"
date: 2023-04-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-03
I'm trying to adjust screen brightness on my laptop from the Terminal using:
```
lxqt-config-brightness -d
lxqt-config-brightness -i
```
but to no avail. Nothing happens. The laptop has no support for backlight control, so this is pure gamma changing.

Calling up the GUI Brightness control in LXQt works perfectly.

The same laptop ran 20.04.5 (5.15.0-69) until a couple of days ago, and the CLI commands worked perfectly.
After the upgrade to 22.04.2 (also 5..15.0-69), it's no longer functional.

Something's broken between 20.04 and 22.04, but it's apparently not the kernel.

On searching, this is the closest I came to a solution, but it didn't help:
[https://community.frame.work/t/solved-ubuntu-22-brightness-keys-not-working/22460](https://community.frame.work/t/solved-ubuntu-22-brightness-keys-not-working/22460)

Anyone have information or ideas? Thanks.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-04-05
On an old laptop, I used this script:
$ more screen-brightness
```
#!/bin/sh

FILE=/sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness
# sudo sh -c "/bin/echo 80 > $FILE "
# sudo sh -c "/bin/echo 120 > $FILE "
sudo sh -c "/bin/echo 280 > $FILE "
exit;


CMD1="sudo /bin/sh -c \"/bin/echo "
LOW=80
MED=150
HI=250
CMD2=" > $FILE "

     case "$1" in
       -l  ) $CMD1 $LOW $CMD2 \" ;;
       -m  ) $CMD1 $MED $CMD2 \" ;;
       -h  ) $CMD1 $HI $CMD2 \" ;;
        *  ) echo "Usage: $0 [l|m|h]"
     esac
```

It is very dependent on the hardware and probably the kernel. Can't hurt to check.  I used it to save battery and it really made a big difference.  I don't have any Intel laptops running now or nearby, so I can't check.  I used my WM to connect the non-functional laptop brightness controls to the script with the different options.  At the time, none of the other "tools" worked.  I knew it was likely to break, since screwing with pseudo-files isn't exactly portable.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-04-05
+1 with TheFu -- The values may not cross over the same as earlier releases though. I just checked mine (same path / file) and mine says the current value is "4437".

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-04-05
> **MAFoElffen said:**
> +1 with TheFu -- The values may not cross over the same as earlier releases though. I just checked mine (same path / file) and mine says the current value is "4437".

I understood that the values were system dependent, not even kernel or OS version specific. Basically, trial and error to figure out which values work for your specific system.  The 80, 120, and 280 values in the script were determined purely by trial.  I think anything higher than 280 on that system didn't make it any brighter (that I could tell) and 80 worked in very low-light situations. 120 was for my normal work environment, what I used most of the time.

Anyway, everyone in this thread could easily do a ±10% increment for the decrease/increase, it we were really interested in that functionality. I considered it, but preferred just getting to the presets quickly.  

Our systems/logins should be fast for us as individuals. Doesn't matter if anyone else can't use it at all. ;)

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-04-05
TheFu hit the nail on the head with one respect. There is an upstream bug with this Linux Kernel code:
```

            break;
        case SCANCODE_F7:  /* TODO: DIM_SCREEN */
            if (fn_table_media_set(pressed, KB_FN_F7)) {
                update_hid_key(HID_KEY_DISPLAY_BRIGHTNESS_DN, pressed);
                return EC_ERROR_UNIMPLEMENTED;
            }
            break;
        case SCANCODE_F8:  /* TODO: BRIGHTEN_SCREEN */
            if (fn_table_media_set(pressed, KB_FN_F8)) {
                update_hid_key(HID_KEY_DISPLAY_BRIGHTNESS_UP, pressed);
                return EC_ERROR_UNIMPLEMENTED;
            }

```
Where it isn't respecting <Fn><F7> and <Fn><F8> as hot-keys for Brighter-Dimmer in 12th Generation Intel CPU's. The Kernel series that it affected in Ubuntu was Ubuntu 22.04.1 and the fix was
```

sudo vim /etc/modprobe.d/framework-als-blacklist.conf

```
Add the following
```

blacklist hid_sensor_hub

```
Save and exit... Then 
```

sudo update-initramfs -u

```
To pick up the changes.

That might not affect you, as you said you had an older laptop...

---

### Post by TheFu on 2023-04-05
> **MAFoElffen said:**
> TheFu hit the nail on the head with one respect. There is an upstream bug with this Linux Kernel code:

You are entirely TOO generous.  I wasn't even considering any kernel bugs.  I don't deserve **any** credit/fault/mention on this. ;)

There seem to be 20 different tools that have been created over the decades to handle brightness and that they often don't work.

Regardless, hopefully this will work for ne29914.  He would have come across it, eventually. I have no doubt about that.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-05
Thanks for your suggestions.
The blacklist hid-sensor-hub solution I also found, but no dice.
With the /sys/class/... I'm in over my head and would be fumbling blindly.

The odd thing is, it's the same laptop that's been upgraded from Lubuntu 20.04 to 22.04. In 20.04 it works perfectly. Both versions use 5.15.0-69 kernel, there's no difference there either.
In 20.04:
```
macro@1dk6910p:~$ lxqt-config-brightness -v
lxqt-config-brightness 0.14.1
liblxqt   0.14.1
Qt        5.12.5
```
Which works.
The corresponding versions for 22.04 are:
```
macro@1dk6910p:~$ lxqt-config-brightness -v
lxqt-config-brightness 0.17.1
liblxqt 0.17.0

```

Which doesn't work. I'm beginning to suspect an LXQt bug that's unreported until now, although that would be unusual after a year.

Thanks.

PS: I've downgraded to 20.04 again, long live Timeshift :)

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-04-06
But they are "not" the same... You can correct me if I am wrong (LOL), but...

Lubuntu 20.04 was LXDE. Lubuntu 22.04 is LXQT. There was a a major rewrite of Lubuntu during that change. Right? I don't think that is being "Lubuntu", just different versions, work as an explanation.

But that is a sidenote.

What TheFu did was to change the value of '/sys/class/backlight/intel_backlight/brightness' to different values, by echo'ing the value and using redirection to overwrite the old vslue with the new value...

Another way would be to try to change it this way:
```

pkexec lxqt-backlight_backend --inc
pkexec lxqt-backlight_backend --dec

```

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-04-06
> **MAFoElffen said:**
> But they are "not" the same... You can correct me if I am wrong (LOL), but...

Lubuntu 20.04 was LXDE. Lubuntu 22.04 is LXQT. 

Lubuntu has used LXQt since our first *official *LXQt release which was Lubuntu 18.10, thus *focal* or 20.04 was our *fourth* but first LTS release with LXQt.

I was asked to do some testing of brightness using `lxqt-backlight` and `lxqt-config-brightness` etc back in 2019 (*where I used **the then development release of eoan (19.10) for amd64 & disco (19.04) for i386 hardware (i386 so as to get a larger sample size*)) and hardware was all over the place using the same commands (*including some hardware that returned the identical strings using lshw but responded differently!**; ie. using the same ISO in live mode from different model boxes that report as having identical CPU & GPU using `lshw`*).

Also FYI:  I used the Lubuntu *disco/19.04 i386* ISO also on the *amd64* boxes that used *eoan/19.10* and at least for those releases, got the same results (5.0 kernel for *disco *& 5.3 kernel for *eoan*)

ie.  Whilst I found definite* patterns*, I'd not *bet* on how hardware performed before I saw it.

I'm not surprised that 20.04 if using say the GA (5.4) kernel stack may respond differently to 22.04 using any stack, but for 20.04 to be identical to 22.04 I'd say the best chance was HWE stack on *focal* (ie. 5.15) & GA stack on *jammy* (ie. 5.15). I'd want to see that before I looked at differences in LXQt myself, but this is just opinion.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-04-06
So the change was between 18.04 LTS and 20.04 LTS? Sorry. My mistake on the versions when it changed over. You would definitely know! LOL.

Back lighting has been a challenge in "Linux" since Ubuntu 11.04. (I miss 10.04) It is different from flavor to flavor and machine to machine. I have to play with things to see what works on what. And you are right, it doesn't matter if the specs say something is the same. That is not an Ubuntu thing. It is a Linux thing.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-06
Thanks for your response.
> **guiverc said:**
> 
I'm not surprised that 20.04 if using say the GA (5.4) kernel stack may respond differently to 22.04 using any stack, but for 20.04 to be identical to 22.04 I'd say the best chance was HWE stack on *focal* (ie. 5.15) & GA stack on *jammy* (ie. 5.15). I'd want to see that before I looked at differences in LXQt myself, but this is just opinion.
I'm not sure I understand this.
Is there a difference between a 20.04LTS 5.15.0-69 kernel and a 22.04LTS 5.15.0-69 kernel?
Just to be clear: this is about brightness (gamma control), not backlight which the machine doesn't support.

Thx.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-04-07
Lubuntu 20.04.5 LTS if using the GA kernel stack used the 5.4 kernel.
Lubuntu 20.04.5 LTS if using the HWE kernel stack used the 5.15 kernel (*from 22.04 in fact*).

As *live* media for 20.04 exists using the 5.4 (20.04 & 20.04.1), 5.8 (20.04.2), 5.11 (20.04.3), 5.13 (20.04.4) & 5.15 (20.04.5) you can boot a *live* system without install using each of those kernels.  I'm often using this for comparison testing when exploring issuesto rule out kernel differences.  If using HWE on 20.04, and GA on 22.04 - given the kernel differences are *almost none*, I'd expect differences to exist elsewhere in the stack which includes Qt5 & LXQt.

I've had issues before that appeared in LXQt, but in fact were bugs on Qt5 itself.  I had a few boxes that were hit by issues with the Qt5 in *focal* (20.04).  I filed those bugs against LXQt (*upstream*) originally, but LXQt *devs* discovered it was a bug in Qt5 itself & not LXQt code & thus rejected the bug (*on LXQt*). The issue on Qt5 was found & soon fixed, alas only in later versions of Qt5. Being only a *visual glitch*, it didn't quality for backport (not security related), thus *focal* (20.04) didn't suit those boxes I felt. Lubuntu/Kubuntu rolled out fixes with *groovy* or 20.10 which used the newer Qt5 version.

You've likely ruled out kernel difference (*inc. **kernel module*), but 20.04 & 22.04 have more differences than just the LXQt version, as there are other changes (Qt5 stack for example).

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-07
Thanks for your feedback and efforts. I've now done some further reseach, and the culprit seems to lie in either lxqt-config-brightness 0.17.1 or in liblxqt 0.17.0.
I attach two listings, the first from 20.04 LTS:

```
macro@1dk6910p:~$ lxqt-config-brightness -v
lxqt-config-brightness 0.14.1
liblxqt   0.14.1
Qt        5.12.5
macro@1dk6910p:~$ lxqt-config-brightness -h
Usage: lxqt-config-brightness [options]
LXQt Config Brightness


Options:
  -h, --help              Displays this help.
  -i, --icrease           Increase brightness.
  -d, --decrease          Decrease brightness.
  -s, --set <brightness>  Set brightness from 1 to 100.
  -r, --reset             Reset gamma to default value.
  -v, --version           Displays version information.
macro@1dk6910p:~$ uname -a
Linux 1dk6910p 5.15.0-69-generic #76~20.04.1-Ubuntu SMP Mon Mar 20 15:54:19 UTC 2023 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
macro@1dk6910p:~$
```

Everythying works, all options are operational and behave as expected. Default brightness is 50 (of 1...100).

Now to the 22.04 LTS version:

```
lubuntu@lubuntu:~$ lxqt-config-brightness -h
Usage: lxqt-config-brightness [options]
LXQt Config Brightness


Options:
  -h, --help              Displays help on commandline options.
  --help-all              Displays help including Qt specific options.
  -v, --version           Displays version information.
  -i, --increase          Increase brightness.
  -d, --decrease          Decrease brightness.
  -s, --set <brightness>  Set brightness from 1 to 100.
  -r, --reset             Reset gamma to default value.
lubuntu@lubuntu:~$ lxqt-config-brightness -v
lxqt-config-brightness 0.17.1
liblxqt   0.17.0
Qt        5.15.2
lubuntu@lubuntu:~$ uname -a
Linux lubuntu 5.19.0-32-generic #33~22.04.1-Ubuntu SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Mon Jan 30 17:03:34 UTC 2 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
lubuntu@lubuntu:~$
```

Here, the -h, -v, -r options work.
--help-all, -i, -d, -s give no response at all.

For both 20.04 and 22.04, running lxqt-config-brightness _without_ options brings a pop-up GUI window with a slider for brightness, which works in all cases.

The 22.04 kernel seems to have been upgraded since my last try (completely new .ISO), but the results were the same with 5.15.0-69.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-04-07
I think it is time to file a bug at Launchpad against it... They can dig into the details under the covers to see if there is a problem and where.

If you (please do), then post the link to the BUG here so we can follow the progress. I am interested in what they find.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-07
OK, will try.
I seem to be the only person in the world wanting to use CLI brightness control...
I hope it's not as bad as GitHub.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-07
What a success! Another success like that and I'll sell my body for medical experiments...
Launchpad's Lubuntu section states that "Lubuntu does not use Launchpad for bug tracking."
Further looking pointed me to (groan) GitHub where I'd already filed a bug report on this. It was closed within hours, me being told "not to file bug reports on out-of-date verions" or words to that effect. So 22.04 is obsolete to Lubuntu it seems.
I've been very happy with Lubuntu until now, but that kind of thing nudges me in the direction of changing distros.

EDIT: This is the response from the LXQt GitHub bug tracking page (2 days ago):
> [COLOR=#1F2328][FONT=-apple-system]Ubuntu 22.04 contains outdated LXQt and kernel packages. LXQt 0.17.0 was officially released on April 15, 2021, and is now considered outdated in April 2023. The 0.17.1 version you mentioned seems to be a patch from Ubuntu maintainers, not an official LXQt release. As LXQt developers, we cannot support this unofficial version, and we are uncertain about the modifications it includes. To resolve the issue you're experiencing, we recommend upgrading to the latest official release, LXQt 1.2.0, which was released on November 5, 2022. You may also want to consult your distribution maintainers regarding this process. If the problem persists after upgrading, please don't hesitate to create a new issue, and we'll be more than happy to help.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-04-07
> **ne29914 said:**
> What a success! Another success like that and I'll sell my body for medical experiments...
Launchpad's Lubuntu section states that "Lubuntu does not use Launchpad for bug tracking."
Further looking pointed me to (groan) GitHub where I'd already filed a bug report on this. It was closed within hours, me being told "not to file bug reports on out-of-date verions" or words to that effect. So 22.04 is obsolete to Lubuntu it seems.
I've been very happy with Lubuntu until now, but that kind of thing nudges me in the direction of changing distros.

EDIT: This is the response from the LXQt GitHub bug tracking page (2 days ago):

Lubuntu does use launchpad.net for bug tracking; our wiki on bugs is this ( [https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/](https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/) ) which states it.

Do note:  Lubuntu does not manage all packages on launchpad; but I can't look up what page you saw as I don't know where you saw that we don't you looked up, but if was something like this page ( [https://bugs.launchpad.net/lubuntu](https://bugs.launchpad.net/lubuntu) and the BUGS tab ) that's because that wasn't a package page; but you'll find a useful link in the OVERVIEW tab under *Bug Tracker:  *(ie. other pages on lp).

Lubuntu 22.04 LTS installs with the LXQt 0.17 (*same version we included with 21.10 as was documented early on; having used it as a reason to ask for more contributors being our issue at that time*), however that can be upgraded via use of backports, which we've documented a few times now (*as the version available upgrades*).  The latest doc being [https://lubuntu.me/jammy-backports-22-04-1-lxqt-1-2/](https://lubuntu.me/jammy-backports-22-04-1-lxqt-1-2/)

To file upstream, you need to be using the latest Lubuntu release (22.04 isn't anymore), or in this case be using *backports* so your LXQt has been upgraded.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-08
Thanks for the response. I won't bother you with all the serpentines and contortions and searches I've been through _without_ finding a place to report Lubuntu bugs. but it took a full evening. Pretty discouraging.
That it's under "Phabricator", "Wiki" scroll, scroll <link> is not very obvious to an average user. Only your direct link helped me find it.
And now I also have to install special software "apport" to make the report.
There must be a better way. Can't I just enter the report directly?

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-08
OK, managed to work my way through the labyrinth. Here's the link to the bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxqt-config/+bug/2015658](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxqt-config/+bug/2015658)

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-04-08
If you go to Lubuntu's web site

[https://lubuntu.me/](https://lubuntu.me/)

Everything is pretty easy to find from there. ie. at the top is BLOG, DOWNLOADS, PHABRICATOR, MANUAL, FORUM, LINKS, APPAREL, DONATE which sends you to the correct places.

I'd avoid search engines, UNLESS you peruse the results & only use what is legit. Google can send you to FAN or FAKE sites that offer Lubuntu for download, as well as other enquiries  (ie. I'm wondering if you went to lubuntu[.net] or other non-Ubuntu, non-Lubuntu site, as that could explain why it took so long..)  What results you get will vary on keywords & language used with google.

Official Ubuntu sites will be owned by Canonical; the company behind Ubuntu...  ie. I could use

```
guiverc@d7050-next:~/uwn/issues/781$   whois lubuntu.me
Domain Name: LUBUNTU.ME
Registry Domain ID: D108500000015750671-AGRS
Registrar WHOIS Server:
Registrar URL: http://www.markmonitor.com
Updated Date: 2022-03-13T09:30:08Z
Creation Date: 2015-04-14T20:28:56Z
Registry Expiry Date: 2024-04-14T20:28:56Z
Registrar Registration Expiration Date:
Registrar: MarkMonitor Inc.
Registrar IANA ID: 292
Registrar Abuse Contact Email: abusecomplaints@markmonitor.com
Registrar Abuse Contact Phone: +1.2083895740
Reseller:
Domain Status: clientDeleteProhibited https://icann.org/epp#clientDeleteProhibited
Domain Status: clientTransferProhibited https://icann.org/epp#clientTransferProhibited
Domain Status: clientUpdateProhibited https://icann.org/epp#clientUpdateProhibited
Registrant Organization: Canonical, Ltd.
Registrant State/Province: Isle of Man
Registrant Country: GB
Name Server: NS2.CANONICAL.COM
Name Server: NS1.CANONICAL.COM
Name Server: NS3.CANONICAL.COM
DNSSEC: unsigned
URL of the ICANN Whois Inaccuracy Complaint Form: https://www.icann.org/wicf/
>>> Last update of WHOIS database: 2023-04-08T22:33:27Z <<<

For more information on Whois status codes, please visit https://icann.org/epp

Access to WHOIS information is provided to assist persons in determining the contents of a domain name registration record in the registry database. The data in this record is provided by The Registry Operator for informational purposes only, and accuracy is not guaranteed.  This service is intended only for query-based access. You agree that you will use this data only for lawful purposes and that, under no circumstances will you use this data to (a) allow, enable, or otherwise support the transmission by e-mail, telephone, or facsimile of mass unsolicited, commercial advertising or solicitations to entities other than the data recipient's own existing customers; or (b) enable high volume, automated, electronic processes that send queries or data to the systems of Registry Operator, a Registrar, or Afilias except as reasonably necessary to register domain names or modify existing registrations. All rights reserved. Registry Operator reserves the right to modify these terms at any time. By submitting this query, you agree to abide by this policy.
The Registrar of Record identified in this output may have an RDDS service that can be queried for additional information on how to contact the Registrant, Admin, or Tech contact of the queried domain name.


```

which would confirm to me the lubuntu.me site (*address anyway*) will send me to the correct place.  (The infrastructure used by Lubuntu is self-hosted & paid for by donations, but URLs are registered/controlled by Canonical to avoid hijacking of sites as has happened before). 

I'd look up your history of where you went; I'm pretty sure you weren't looking up Ubuntu or Lubuntu sites, but other third party sites (*be they fan/fake etc*).

The `apport` tools are included on all Ubuntu ISOs, which of course includes Lubuntu.  A look at the manifest of Lubuntu *jammy* ([https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/jammy/daily-live/current/jammy-desktop-amd64.manifest](https://cdimage.ubuntu.com/lubuntu/jammy/daily-live/current/jammy-desktop-amd64.manifest)) and quick search for apport will find results..  Thus you'll have `ubuntu-bug` and `apport-*` already installed.

Have you tried the upgraded LXQt?  Was it any different?

You could always post a question on Lubuntu's discourse (forum), and see if a *developer* offers anything, though the first thing I'd likely want to test would be if it occurs on our current Lubuntu *lunar* ISO, and few people will have the exact hardware you have (*thus the testing will be on whatever hardware we have which may give different results*). The Lubuntu *jammy *ISO link I used for *manifest* contains all current upgraded packages (*it was a daily; what will become our 22.04.3 ISO when ready*) however it'll still contain the original LXQt 0.17 and not the updated (1.2) version available via backports; only later releases have the newer LXQt code on ISOs. Our focus currently is on *lunar* which is in *beta*; bugs there being our current focus.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-08
Thanks guiverc, you certainly put a lot of effort into my issues, I appreciate it.
No, I'm old enought to know that  lubuntu.me is the right one, but I know a lot of people fall into the .net trap.
The issue is really the navigation within and between the official Canonical sites, eg, phab/lubuntu.me and launchpad.net. No one would ever get the idea that the "Phabricator" would be the right place for bug reports. And it isn't. It'll tell you partially what to do but not where to do it.
And after every attempt to find Lubuntu bug reporting on Launchpad results in the "Lubuntu does not use Launchpad for bug tracking" page, you feel kinda lost.
It's not until a friendly person like guiverc tells you that it's actually on Launchpad that you try again.
And at some point (after an hour or so) you begin to realize that Lubuntu is a Project under Ubuntu (I'm not certain that even that is right. I'm not able to find the bug page again). From there you can start homing in on where you need to go.

EDIT: guiverc, I don't know how much influence you have here, but I've identified at least one piece of horror: the "How to report bugs" section on [https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/](https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/)
That's the second show stopper (the first is the "Phabrication/Wiki" thing).
It should be rewritten to something like:
Keep points 1 and 5 (rename to 2) and add:
"Identify in which LXQt package you think the bug is and click on the appropriate link in the tables below. This will take you to a Launchpad page where you can make the report."

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-04-08
> **ne29914 said:**
> Thanks guiverc, you certainly put a lot of effort into my issues, I appreciate it.
No, I'm old enough to know that  lubuntu.me is the right one, but I know a lot of people fall into the .net trap.
The issue is really the navigation within and between the official Canonical sites, eg, phab/lubuntu.me and launchpad.net. No one would ever get the idea that the "Phabricator" would be the right place for bug reports. And it isn't. It'll tell you partially what to do but not where to do it.
And after every attempt to find Lubuntu bug reporting on Launchpad results in the "Lubuntu does not use Launchpad for bug tracking" page, you feel kinda lost.
It's not until a friendly person like guiverc tells you that it's actually on Launchpad that you try again.
And at some point (after an hour or so) you begin to realize that Lubuntu is a Project under Ubuntu (I'm not certain that even that is right. I'm not able to find the bug page again). From there you can start homing in on where you need to go.

EDIT: guiverc, I don't know how much influence you have here, but I've identified at least one piece of horror: the "How to report bugs" section on [https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/](https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/)
That's the second show stopper (the first is the "Phabrication/Wiki" thing).
It should be rewritten to something like:
Keep points 1 and 5 (rename to 2) and add:
"Identify in which LXQt package you think the bug is and click on the appropriate link in the tables below. This will take you to a Launchpad page where you can make the report."

Thanks..

and I laughed out loud when I read "T*he issue is really the navigation within and between the official Canonical sites*" as I can fully-appreciate that...

Phabricator is no longer *supported* software, thus we're in the process of replacing that anyway.

I don't see myself as friendly.. I like [feeding *wild birds*]("https://photos.google.com/share/AF1QipP8x-I0kfA0BMEGUtyuWw5UEOpwRwIWiVMto7s-oPH9qOM1s1z7PNOLCa6LCbHWPQ/photo/AF1QipPXMQs31UyAbFNCPfu_RleRJnArnM613dHz2oPm?key=WUtKUTFmYTlzZjUzV1p2X25pWkduZXAwQzFJRkd3"), and I see my temperament as more like the Little Corella I really like interacting with... *gruff.*   At times not a problem, but whilst I don't *bite* like the Corella do, some of my comments are a little *less than ideal*.

Influence: I'm a Ubuntu person; I got my Ubuntu membership via my *contributions* with the Ubuntu News team actually.. however I got involved with QA (*Quality Assurance*) testing where I concentrated mostly in Xubuntu & Lubuntu (*as* *they still had i386 [32bit x86] images*).. but the Lubuntu team *shepherded *me towards their camp before the Xubuntu people did (*I used Xfce then too!*)... so I became Lubuntu team member too in due course. I'm on the Lubuntu Council, thus a *product manager* for Lubuntu & thus do have *rights* or *influence* (*though its really a small team*). A quick look and I see where you were *led astray* with that doc...   I'll leave this window open & hopefully get to make some edits later today.

**Thank you for your feedback & clues on fixing the doc**.. The [Lubuntu team can be contacted]("https://lubuntu.me/links/") via IRC if you use it (*you can also access the rooms via telegram/matrix too*), and probably the best place for feedback is the [Lubuntu discourse]("https://discourse.lubuntu.me/"); I'm *moderator* there, but other team members view whats there  regularly too.

Note:  *feel free to remind me if I forget... I've got other tasks (Ubuntu News etc) open in other windows that are more time sensitive than Lubuntu edits.*

---

### Post by him610 on 2023-04-11
> How to control brightness via CLI/Terminal?
From a terminal command line, enter....
```
xgamma -gamma 0.8
```
It is what I use on a too bright monitor. If you want it brighter, try a value greater than 1.0

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-12
Thanks for the suggestion. xgamma unfortunately does not solve my issue: I'm looking for the "increase" "decrease" functionality.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-04-12
> **ne29914 said:**
> OK, managed to work my way through the labyrinth. Here's the link to the bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxqt-config/+bug/2015658](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxqt-config/+bug/2015658)
I've been following the progress of this with interest. Just a tickler...

If you go back to that Bug, at response #1 "guiverc" asked you to submit the required debugging info and how to submit that. The bug report can't move forward without that information.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-12
Did that a few days ago, just after guiverc's message. Not much happening since then. Easter vacation, I guess.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-04-12
> **ne29914 said:**
> Did that a few days ago, just after guiverc's message. Not much happening since then. Easter vacation, I guess.

The requested (2023-04-09) apport-collect has **not** been run on that bug report. The bug report is awaiting the OP to add that detail (*ie. populate bug fields* *which is done on running apport-collect*).

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-13
OK, sent again a few moments ago.
I'll be applying for a scholarship at LUB (Launchpad University of Bugreporting). Four semesters should do it.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2023-04-13
> **ne29914 said:**
> OK, sent again a few moments ago.
I'll be applying for a scholarship at LUB (Launchpad University of Bugreporting). Four semesters should do it.

And in some cases 8  semesters may be needed...LOL

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-13
Major duh! The apport I sent was from the 20.04 system which works. Did an upgrade to 22.04 and sent the apport again. Now the bug report is a total mess :-(
Should I redo?

---

### Post by guiverc on 2023-04-13
> **ne29914 said:**
> Major duh! The apport I sent was from the 20.04 system which works. Did an upgrade to 22.04 and sent the apport again. Now the bug report is a total mess :-(
Should I redo?

I'd suggest leaving a comment (*on the bug report*) explaining what you did in error, and make it clear the release you're having a problem with. The important bits can be manually corrected (*it's be tagged as a focal bug (20.04); but focal can be switched to jammy quickly*).

I've not got to processing my (mail) inbox yet this morning (*AM here*) but I do note 3x apport-looking emails in my first page of the inbox window (~2.5 hours ago; 07:09 aest) so I'll likely have a look when I get to email.  

I doubt we'll want it again (new report), but we'll request it if required.

**Thank you** for submitting the bug report, and helping make Lubuntu/Ubuntu better.

> **ne29914 said:**
> 
I'll be applying for a scholarship at LUB (Launchpad University of Bugreporting). Four semesters should do it.

I loved this !!   very much LOL.

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2023-04-20
I just dug a hole in my garden (next to mother-in-law), poured this whole bug reporting thing into it and covered it up again.
Done.
Looking at the Launchpad "lxqt-config" bug list, there are 14 open bugs on it. Eight are marked as "new" and dating back to 2019.
Not very encouraging.

I'll stay with my wonderfully running 20.04 system and refrain from reporting bugs in the future.

Thanks to All.

---

