---
title: "11.04 problem with battery setting / hibernate"
date: 2012-06-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LibmasterLib on 2012-06-11
I just installed 11.04 on a HP pavillion dv6000 that's about 4 years old.

It seems to be running fine, but when I unplugged it from the power source I immediately got a message telling me that my battery was dangerously low and it was going to go into hibernate.

The battery should have been fully charged and the battery status icon on the top right of the screen showed a full battery.

I also can't figure out how the hell to get it out of hibernate mode.

Does anyone have any solutions to either of these problems?

---

### Post by j0eb0b on 2012-06-11
I think there is a firmware issue in HP/Compaq laptop equipment correctly establishing the battery state of machines that have been converted to run Unbuntu.  Assuming you have a battery newer than 4 years (laptop batteries have a useful life or 36 months in my experience) I think the bios in your machine is not communicating properly with the battery sensing circuitry that reports to the OS.  I am using an HP NC 6400 with Unbuntu 11.04 installed about the same age as yours with a new battery installed 12/11.  The original battery had reached the end of usable life (really low run time from apparent full charge) and was replaced with a new (after market Batteries Plus).  Now each time the machine is unplugged from the wall at full charge, the bios (flashing light on the front panel) reports a battery discharge condition even though everything is in fact cool.

HP/Compaq gear was built to with MS OS and works OK with Unbuntu with few exceptions.  The only thing I can recommend with the hibernate issue is to boot the machine into the bios setup (usually pressing the delete key in the boot sequence) and the tab to the power management panel to see it there are some options that will improve your situation.

Sorry not to be more help since I feel your pain too.

---

