---
title: ".forward command expected output"
date: 2012-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-05-17
Heya all

Haven't been here in a while... what happened to the layout? I liked it better before....

Anyway, I have a question about how to use commands in a users ~/.forward file. 

I know that the message is piped to the program via stdin, but what kind of output would postfix / sendmail / etc expect, if any?

I suppose I'm basically asking does the command do all the processing from then on, or say if that command spits out another email address / alias on stdout, would the message be forwarded on to that address / alias?

Cheers

Ramo

---

### Post by lisati on 2012-05-17
Are you looking at a global forwarding arrangement, or forwarding?

If you're looking at individual forwarding, the contents of the file is quite simple. From [http://www.postfix.org/ADDRESS_REWRITING_README.html#forward](http://www.postfix.org/ADDRESS_REWRITING_README.html#forward) :-
> With delivery via the local(8) deliver agent, users can control their own mail delivery by specifying destinations in a file called .forward in their home directories. The syntax of these files is the same as with the local [aliases(5]("http://www.postfix.org/aliases.5.html")) file, except that the left-hand side of the alias (lookup key and colon) are not present.

---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-05-17
Thanks, most of the syntax of the .forward I understand. But as far as the command processing goes, I just was wondering if that command spits out a new address, will the email get sent to that address in addition?

Cheers

Ramo

---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-05-18
A disproportionate number of my beans come from bumping my own threads.....

---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-05-18
bumpin

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-05-18
> **goodvikings said:**
> 
.........
I suppose I'm basically asking does the command do all the processing from then on, or say if that command spits out another email address / alias on stdout, would the message be forwarded on to that address / alias?


It is** not** a command, it is a setting.

---

### Post by goodvikings on 2012-05-18
Hate to burst your bubble dcstar, but the .forward fie can contain a line starting with a pipe character, followed by a command. But thanks for trying, I suppose I'll just end up setting up a test rig to just try my original question and see for myself. It's very... uncharacteristic of these forums to not be helpful.

Cheers

Ramo

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2012-05-18
The .forward file operates the same way as an entry in /etc/aliases.  If the entry is an address, the message is piped to sendmail for delivery to that address.  If it contains a pipe, it will be sent to that program.  For example, the standard "vacation" program uses .forward files that look like this:

```
\username,"| /usr/bin/vacation username"
```

That places a copy of the message in the user's inbox and pipes another copy to stdin of the vacation program.

I think you're being a bit snippy about the quality of help here.  You only posted this message eleven hours ago, and you're asking a relatively arcane question about the .forward file.  Probably 80-90% of the people on this forum don't even know what a .forward file is, much less know the answer to your question.

---

