---
title: "12.04 no load"
date: 2012-07-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 24th on 2012-07-06
Hey guys, i'm noob and i've got a GREAT problem

I've got sony vaio notebook with Windows 7 (x86) on it and few days ago problems began with it.I needed Ubuntu and made a USB with 12.04 on it, but it didn't run, so i formated everything with Acronics(i wanted to install Ubuntu on clear hard drive)

And then "Missing operating system" message occured!
I've tried USB with Windows7 and Ubuntu on it but all i get is:
"error: no such device: 887f7524-d531-461e-ad01-fded66a8a38a
grub rescue>"

"ls" command shows:
(hd0) (hd0,msdos1) (hd1) (hd1,msdos5) (hd1,msdos2) (hd1,msdos)

I've tried repair-boot disk with Ubuntu and Windows on it - same reaction
#in BIOS i've got External devices 1st priority

SO, i cant load OS or even USB flash drive and i heed your help:confused:

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-07-06
> **24th said:**
> "error: no such device: 887f7524-d531-461e-ad01-fded66a8a38a
grub rescue>"

"ls" command shows:
(hd0) (hd0,msdos1) (hd1) (hd1,msdos5) (hd1,msdos2) (hd1,msdos)

You told GRUB to look for a partition that doesn't exist on your installed disk(s). This happens for several reasons, like if you copied a setup instead of using the installer. See [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Troubleshooting](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Troubleshooting) for easy instructions on how to diagnose and fix the problem.


> **24th said:**
> I needed Ubuntu and made a USB with 12.04 on it, but it didn't run

You made some mistake while creating it. There's no real magic to a bootable USB stick. It's a bootloader, a kernel, and a filesystem. The filesystem is compressed to make it load faster, or to load into RAM. The bootloader needs to be installed properly (not copied), and point to the correct kernel and the correct filesystem, or the boot will fail. If the stick fails to boot, then the bootloader wasn't installed properly. If the stick freezes or kernel-panics, then you may be using the wrong kernel or wrong initramdisk for that kernel. If it boots to desktop, but crashes, then you may have a corrupt filesystem image.

How, exactly, did you make the broken USB? What instructions did you follow (give us a link)? Did you follow them exactly, or did you take any shortcuts?

---

### Post by 24th on 2012-07-07
I used cmd method:
"SELECT DISK 1

CLEAN

CREATE PARTITION PRIMARY

SELECT PARTITION 1

ACTIVE

FORMAT FS=FAT32"

and then copied 12.04 image to USB

---

### Post by 24th on 2012-07-07
I've tried unetbootin and all worked fine!
Thanks for answers!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-07-07
Please mark thread as solved, if it is, from 'Thread Tools' to help others. ;)

Hope you enjoy the learning curve and the OS.

---

