---
title: "10.04 CPU scaling defaults"
date: 2010-07-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Joey Hogan on 2010-07-26
Hey all!

Every time I boot my laptop, the CPU scaling for both cores seems to default to performance. I rather it default to ondemand, but it seems that no matter how many times I set it to ondemand, it keeps going back to performance every time I reboot.

Does anyone know how I could force it to go to ondemand mode on startup?

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2010-07-26
If might help if we knew about your hardware.

---

### Post by Joey Hogan on 2010-07-26
It's an early-2008 Macbook that I truly regret buying.

2.4Ghz Core 2 Duo
2Gb RAM
160Gb HD

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2010-07-26
try the suggestions found here:

[http://wiki.debian.org/MacBook#CPUfrequencyscaling](http://wiki.debian.org/MacBook#CPUfrequencyscaling)

---

### Post by PaulReaver on 2010-07-26
the script that switches your cpu to ondemand doesn't start up for about 60 seconds,  so that the cpu is at performance until your pc has finished booting.

reboot your machine and wait a minute you'll see it change.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-07-26
> the script that switches your cpu to ondemand doesn't start up for about 60 seconds,....

That's the way it should be working - i'd ck. this out first before applying any edits ( though mac hardware may need some help, don't know.

The script should be in /etc/init.d/ondemand if you wished to take a look - modified ex. below


=======================================================================
my only issue was I think the new default ondemand theshold has been set to high for good performance, I moved mine from the default of 95 down to either 75 or 65 (laptop isn't  here atm
( did so by adding to the above mentioned  script - added the blue

```
case "$1" in
    start)
    	start-stop-daemon --start --background --exec /etc/init.d/ondemand -- background
        ;;
    background)
	sleep 60 # probably enough time for desktop login

	for CPUFREQ in /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpufreq/scaling_governor
	do
		[ -f $CPUFREQ ] || continue
		echo -n ondemand > $CPUFREQ
	done

        [COLOR="Blue"]for CPU_THRESHOLD in /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpufreq/ondemand/up_threshold
	do
		[ -f $CPU_THRESHOLD ] || continue
		echo -n 65 > $CPU_THRESHOLD
	done[/COLOR]
	;;
    restart|reload|force-reload)
```

---

### Post by mathew7 on 2010-07-31
Thanks mc4man, I got here searching for my own problem (I actually want powersave).
Now I also understand why my scalings were reset to ondemand.
I have an SSD and in 25 seconds since selecting the kernel I can start firefox. I will change this script for myself, but I think the sleep value and cpuscaling governor should be configurable though /etc/default/.

---

