---
title: "18.04: wayland -&gt; xorg?"
date: 2018-08-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kawazu on 2018-08-21
Folks;
what is the best way to, on Ubuntu 18.04, switch from wayland back to xorg? I tried logging in using "GNOME / xorg" which blanks screen for a moment to just get me back to the login screen. I guess that's not how it's supposed to work. 
What to do?

Thanks in advance,
Kristian

---

### Post by tea for one on 2018-08-21
After you have selected your user name during the logging in process, you should arrive at the page where you enter your password.

Just to the right of the password field, there is a little gear wheel.

Click the gear wheel and you should see the choices:-

Ubuntu
Ubuntu on Wayland

---

### Post by kawazu on 2018-08-21
> **tea for one said:**
> After you have selected your user name during the logging in process, you should arrive at the page where you enter your password.

Just to the right of the password field, there is a little gear wheel.
Click the gear wheel and you should see the choices:-

Ubuntu
Ubuntu on Wayland

Thanks for your pointer. I'm using the GNOME "vanilla" sessions and see two options "GNOME" and "GNOME on xorg". Choosing just "GNOME" makes me log into GNOME apparently using wayland. Using "GNOME on xorg" sends me to a black screen to then return me to the login screen. :( Any way to figure out what's wrong here?

---

### Post by tea for one on 2018-08-21
Gnome vanilla session within Ubuntu is a new one for me and I had no idea from your original post that you were using this.

I have not used Gnome vanilla therefore, regrettably, I am unable to offer further suggestions.

Best wishes

---

### Post by mc4man on 2018-08-22
Saw this before on an install I had, was easier to just do a fresh install

---

### Post by kawazu on 2018-08-30
Thanks for your help anyone. Actually the system was a fresh install, only installed the whole vanilla GNOME stuff afterwards as I didn't like the Ubuntu customizing very much. Anything else I can do to eventually track this down?

---

### Post by kawazu on 2018-09-04
In case anyone else (from the future) stumbles across this, I managed to resolve this issue by (re-)installing the "ubuntu-session" package. With this, apparently the "GNOME" / "GNOME (xorg)" sessions do work well again, too. No idea why. :)

---

