---
title: "Decrypt Drive Encrypted With eCryptfs?"
date: 2009-06-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Literati on 2009-06-07
Hi there, I'm looking for w ay to undo basically everything encryptfs has done. :P

I was reinstalling Ubuntu 9.04 when it asked if I wanted to encrypt my home, so I said sure why not. Later on, I completely FUBAR'd my Xserver, and decided to just wipe the slate clean and reinstall. Upon doing so, as I mounted my encrypted /home folder in the same spot, it somehow stopped my Xserver from even starting and I couldn't get past the login screen (Possible due to the .dmrc file?)

Anyway, I did another reinstall, but this time mounted the encrypted filesystem on /media/TB and everything works fine.

Now, when I try to even access my files, this is what happens:

matt@matt:~$ sudo ecryptfs-mount-private
ERROR: Encrypted Private is not setup properly

Which can't be good, obviously.

I really don't want to have to lose this filesystem, so I'm hoping that something can be done to help me decrypt this, or access the files to at least back them up elsewhere and then wipe the HDD, something. (I usually do have a backup, but I'm doing a bit of HDD shuffling at the moment, so it's M.I.A. :( Of course, just when I actually needed it too right? :P)

Thanks for any and all suggestions / replies

---

### Post by Literati on 2009-06-08
I never thought that decrypting something could be so hard. I mean, encrypting it was liteally a click of a button, and putting in a password. :/

---

### Post by Literati on 2009-06-08
Please? Somebody? It's killing me to not have all my videos, music and the like...

---

### Post by Literati on 2009-06-08
:( I hate bumping so frequently. But that drive has pretty much everything I use. I mean, nothing on there is MISSION CRITICAL but it's just a lot to replace....

---

### Post by Agent ME on 2009-06-08
The command "ecryptfs-mount-private" doesn't need sudo - I wouldn't be surprised if the command isn't supposed to work with sudo.

ecryptfs-mount-private will mount the encrypted directory ~/.Private to ~/Private, so you should make sure your directories are set up like this. (Move /media/TB/.Private to ~/.Private) The ~/.ecryptfs directory probably also needs to be in the correct place.

---

### Post by Literati on 2009-06-08
That was a good idea but still no dice. :(

I copied it all over to ~/

(So now I have both ~/.Private and ~/.ecryptfs)

But .ecryptfs is a symbolic link to /var/lib/ecryptfs/username which doesn't exist on this system, and I guess would need to be generated by the system which created the encryption, would it not?

I'm guess that I'm just SOL on this one eh?

---

### Post by anandogc on 2010-06-27
you may try this
[http://www.linux-mag.com/id/7568/3/](http://www.linux-mag.com/id/7568/3/)

---

