---
title: "S.O.S. rcS main process (720) terminated with status 1"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dugong_bud on 2009-11-16
Hi All!


My Ubuntu 9.04 died last week. Ive just used normally.


So:
Grub comes up, whichever kernel or safe mode i choose this happens:


 The ubuntu sign is showed for a few secs, then blackness and:


 /etc/init.d/rc: called with unknown action' '
error: /etc/init.d/rc: / exited outside the expected code flow.
init: rcS main process (720) terminated with status 1
/etc/init.d/rc: called with unknown action' '
error: /etc/init.d/rc: / exited outside the expected code flow.
init: rc2 main process (729) terminated with status 1
 

Ive tried:

1. recovery mode:
 all but grub udate.
nothing helped

 2. live cd: 
 1 it runs, I see all drives.
2 memorycheck
3 failure check or sth like that (I use it antoher lang.)
 

nothing changed. I cant work with it.

nobody helped in the hungarian forums, so  pls help, 


thxalot:


dugong

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-16
It sounds like you have a number of problems similar to what I would expect following a power failure with a corrupted / filesystem.

I would boot from the LiveCD, mount whatever drive has your /home filesystem on it, backup the home directory using "tar" after installing a big-enough USB drive, then I would reinstall, and restore the backup.

Then I would buy a UPS. ;)

---

### Post by dugong_bud on 2009-11-17
> **Giblet5 said:**
> It sounds like you have a number of problems similar to what I would expect following a power failure with a corrupted / filesystem.

I would boot from the LiveCD, mount whatever drive has your /home filesystem on it, backup the home directory using "tar" after installing a big-enough USB drive, then I would reinstall, and restore the backup.

Then I would buy a UPS. ;)


uhh....
It does'nt sound really good...
yes, like that i can save most of my data. but things like the notes in tomboy, or a million things  -that I would remember just when I will need- will be lost...

CAN YOU PLS DETAIL, how shall I install an usb drive, and HOW to use this tar process?

another problem is that has dual boot, but the win(xp) cant see the ext3 drives after installing the driver...

anybody else, any solution?

thxalot anyway.

cheers

---

