---
title: "System won't boot after running Boot-Repair"
date: 2016-03-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thursday42 on 2016-03-21
A little general information:
I had a working Windows 10 installation and was trying to install Xubuntu alongside it.  The Xubuntu installation succeeded, but I could only boot into Windows 10.  I started an Xubuntu live session using a USB stick and ran the Boot-Repair program, following all the suggested instructions.  I told it to install GRUB on all drives.  Boot-Repair said it completed successfully, but when I restarted the system, I wasn't able to boot into any OS.  I have tried using all the hard drives as the first running drive, but I get the same result with all of them.

Once the system gets through the normal BIOS prompts, I get the following message:

error: disk 'hd0' not found.
Entering rescue mode...
grub rescue>

I did some research, and I tried to enter the command "ls", but when I enter that, I just get a blank line.  This is what it looks like:
grub rescue> ls

grub rescue>

Below is a link to the boot information summary generated by Boot-Repair.
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/15468375/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/15468375/)

Any help would be hugely appreciated!  I am at a total loss as to how to proceed.

---

### Post by yancek on 2016-03-21
Near the top of boot repair output, you will see two entries for sda1.  One is your windows and the other is sda1/wubi.  You might as well remove that.  Wubi is a program to use to test Ubuntu and is installed inside a windows partition and according to the developers, is not expected to work on windows 8 or newer.  You can get more info on it at their site 'wubi guide' below.  If you scroll down the page it will tell you how to remove it.

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WubiGuide)

Grub code is installed in the MBR of all drives.  If you look at the bottom of the boot repair page, it tells you that is what it did.  I've never used this so I don't know what kind of message it outputs.  You should have Grub boot code in the MBR of sdb pointing to the Ubuntu install on sdb5 according to boot repair so what you need to do is to enter your BIOS setup immediately on boot and change the boot priority to boot from sdb which is the 1TB drive.  You have correct Ubuntu and windows entries in the grub boot menu file.

---

### Post by thursday42 on 2016-03-21
Thanks for the reply.  I have already made sure that the 1TB drive is set to be the first on the list of boot priority, and I still get the same message, so I'm not sure why it's giving me such a hard time.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-03-22
Best to have Windows boot loader on Windows drive and grub2's boot loader on Ubuntu drive.
You can use Boot-Repair to restore a Windows type boot loader to sda using its advanced options. Choose Windows & sda.
Or use your Windows repair flash drive. Boot-Repair can only make a few minor fixes to Windows, so you always need a Windows repair flash drive also.

I do not know AMD, but expect you need nomodeset.
       At grub menu you can use e for edit, scroll to linux line and replace quiet splash with nomodeset.
How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 - both BIOS liveCD & grub first boot ( also UEFI with grub) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
Possible boot options suggested by ubfan1
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184839&p=12871710#post12871710](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2184839&p=12871710#post12871710) 

Are you running RAID? or why is it seeing /mapper? And promize fasttrack?
Found Windows Vista (loader) on /dev/mapper/pdc_ebffbgeb1

I do not know RAID and different types are seen differently. Some require special configurations, others are just another drive and RAID controller manages everything.

---

### Post by thursday42 on 2016-03-23
Thanks for the help!  I was able to get it working.

My problem seemed to be that I had 2 drives in RAID 1, and the BIOS was booting to the RAID array first every time (and GRUB didn't seem to work on the RAID array), even though I was selecting other drives as the first boot drive.  I disabled the RAID since I don't need it anymore anyway, and GRUB loader immediately worked and booted perfectly into the Xubuntu installation.  Windows 10 would not boot, but I let it run the automatic startup repair, and it worked and then booted fine.

Thanks again.

---

