---
title: "9.10 NVIDIA Configuration Weirdness"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vicroc4 on 2010-05-01
After upgrading to the latest kernel version in Ubuntu 9.10, it came up with an error on boot that basically told me that it couldn't load the nvidia driver module (unfortunately, I didn't have the sense to write down the error when it happened, nor with the rest of the chain of weirdness that happened here - maybe if someone duplicates this they can record it).  When Ubuntu tried to launch GDM, it came up in "Low Graphics Mode" (according to the dialogue that came up).  It also gave me a series of menus.

After wading through these menus one by one without much luck, I picked one that would basically regenerate the X.org configuration files (once again, I feel terrible about not recording the exact wording).  When I rebooted, I had no problems.

My specs when this happened were:

Kernel: 2.6.31-21-generic
Driver: Proprietary NVIDIA Accelerated Graphics Driver v.185.18.36
Card: NVIDIA GeForce 8400GS

Curiously, before I figured out how to regenerate the configuration files, I tried rebooting to the previous kernel version (2.6.31-20-generic, I think), and had no problems there, so I think that the problem was with the new kernel and not with the NVIDIA driver.

Since I was able to resolve this, it's not really an issue, but I thought I would post it as a bit of a warning to other people upgrading to the new kernel.  Maybe someone with a bit more knowledge of this problem can tell me what happened and how to avoid it in the future.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-05-01
It is not a problem with the new kernel, it is just that the new kernel was not properly modified to include the video driver. This is a necessary step of installing a new Xorg driver or, conversely, installing a new kernel when an existing Xorg driver is already active.

Tim

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2010-05-01
run:
"sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get -f install && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade"
then reboot

that should get you going I think.

---

### Post by vicroc4 on 2010-05-05
Thanks for the help.  Like I said, it seems to work fine now that I've regenerated the configuration files - perhaps that made it so that the kernel was able to recognize the driver?  In any case, it seems to work fine now, and I'll keep your suggestions in mind in case any of our other Ubuntu installations have similar problems (fully 3 out of 4 Ubuntu installations in my house also have nVidia graphics cards).

Ocxic - wouldn't that just move my system to 10.04?  I'm holding off on upgrading to 10.04 until some of the problems I'm seeing get worked out (I held off on 9.10 for the same reason until recently, and I have always done the same thing with Windows).  Good to know, though.

---

