---
title: "12.04 on hp envy dv6-7229wm"
date: 2012-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by naknak987 on 2012-11-04
I recently bought a hp envy dv6-7229wm. Naturally I was not happy with windows 8 and thier metro interface. I run ubuntu 12.04 on my desktop so I thought I would put 12.04 on my dv6. 

Everything installed ok. The fglrx driver installed ok. But when I shutdown or restart the system I get a message about gnome settings daemon not responding. 

I tried reporting the bug but everything locks up. I dont expect much help with this becasue this this laptop was just released on october 26. 

Other then the above mentioned, there havent been any other problems yet.

Update: After some more testing I've found that the system is unstable. I did more digging and found another thread about the gnome settings daemon error that I'm getting.

Before finding the thread I was thinking the problem was hardware related but now I'm thinking that its because I installed the 32 bit version of ubuntu on a computer that was designed to run 64 bit operating systems. 

I will try installing the 64 bit ubuntu and report back. 

(Sorry if this is a redundent thread. Typing all this out like this helps me collect my thoughts on the situation. Besides I figured that it may help another user somewere along the line. If and administrators feel that this thread is unecessary then please remove it, and sorry for the inconvenience.)

update: Installing the 64 bit version of ubuntu solved the problem and now everything works well. I've never had a computer that could do 64 bit before so I just didn't realize. I hope this thread will help others. 

on a side note. I got one of my friends to try out lubuntu on his old laptop and he asks me, "weres my computer at" lol.

---

### Post by j0vian on 2012-11-19
I have a problem that only you may be able to help me with. I bought this laptop from ebay  with the identical model number as yours DV6-7229WM . The problem I am having is the battery was not included and I am having a great amount of difficultly locating this batter as hp claims they do not sell the battery as a replacement part. I was wondering if you would mind looking on the back of your battery and providing me with the hp part number and other identifying info. Your help in this matter would be greatly appreciated.
 
Thanks
j0vian

---

### Post by naknak987 on 2012-11-27
Sure, I would be happy to help. I'm not sure if you want the regulatory model number or the number from the sticker that says replace with hp spare so heres both.

regulatory model number : HSTNN-LB4G
REPLACE WITH HP SPARE : 699468-001
CT number : 6CZMAN1RY3F14C

I hope that helps.

---

### Post by s7evingra on 2013-07-03
Hi, can you post the output of:
```
dmesg | grep -i ASPM
```

I have a Envy dv6 7240sg but the aspm is disabled. When the PC is switched on, the left side under the left wrist becomes hot. I think it's the SD reader, in fact after inserting a sd, this is hot

---

