---
title: "10.04 Random logouts bug"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
OK so the upgrade went fine and only had a few minor problems that were easy fixes. Like the Minimize, Maximize, Close on the left. Not good and fixed that right away. Today was the second time I have had a "random logout"

I will be surfing the web and when I move my pointer on the touch pad of my laptop the screen goes black and I hear the sound of a logout. When I log back in and open Firefox my stuff is still there but this is very annoying. Is there any fix for this?

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
Third time! :(

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
Fourth time .................

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
Fifth time please help

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
Sixth time, now its just getting to where Ubuntu is almost unusable

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-02
any crash (/var/crash) or some xsession-errors (/home/.Xsession-errors)?

how are temperature ? (gdu cpu)
partitions full ?
not enough ram or no swap partition ?

sudo dpkg --configure -a

is the logout only when firefox is used ?

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
So far it only seems to happen when reading [http://www.droidforums.net/forum/](http://www.droidforums.net/forum/)

I did a cd /var/crash and then an ls and there is nothing there.

I did a cd /home/.Xsession-errors no such file or directory.

61GB free space

did a sudo dpkg --configure -a  and nothing happened

Maxed out on RAM

4.1GB swap

Yes only happens in firefox

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2010-05-02
hi
what did you " fixed that right away "
is it possible that your panel on the bottom of the screen got some sensitive stuff ( you move the mouse with your
touch pad - right )
it's just a question .
ciao

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
> **rnerwein said:**
> hi
what did you " fixed that right away "
is it possible that your panel on the bottom of the screen got some sensitive stuff ( you move the mouse with your
touch pad - right )
it's just a question .
ciao

The only thing I fixed was the minimize,maximize and close. I moved them to the right. Other than that I have done nothing. it only seems to happen while I am reading on the [http://www.droidforums.net/forum/](http://www.droidforums.net/forum/) forums. 

Yes I am using a touchpad for my mouse

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2010-05-02
hi
sorry - no idea.
ciao

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
hey thanks anyway. This is really getting crazy.

---

### Post by WEMV on 2010-05-02
I am having the same problem when serfing the Mobile Read Forum. It's rather agravating.

Ed

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
anyone?

---

### Post by zappadragon on 2010-05-02
again! Surfing the web in 10.04 is becoming a major problem making Ubuntu almost not worth it anymore!

---

### Post by talent03 on 2010-05-02
Are you on intensive flash sites? Or even flash banner sites? It maybe a video driver problem.

---

### Post by WEMV on 2010-05-03
I did a complete new install of the OS on my desktop and it seems to have fixed the problem. I have not tried it on my laptop yet.
 
Ed

---

### Post by Tobias-sama on 2010-05-04
someone please find a fix for this that's better than a fresh install!
I'm having the same problem, and it's not cool!

---

### Post by swells5 on 2010-05-08
this happens to me since upgrade to 10.04. The random logouts occur while using openoffice word processor.
my computer is a dell e521 amd dual core processor with lots of hard drive space and ram and a swap file.
this occurred a few versions ago on this computer, never on any of my other computers.
I will work on it, I don't recall what the problem was the last time.

---

### Post by sumoman on 2010-05-09
This has been happening to me on 10.04 but only when I use Firefox.  This issue is not on Google Chrome Browser, at least for me.

Try Chrome and see if the random logouts go away.  I am curious to see if others have the same experience.

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2010-05-09
Try running the program from the terminal to see what errors it gives.

Open a terminal [Applications>Accessories>Terminal], type 

```
firefox
```

to open Firefox or for OpenOffice,

```
oowriter
```


When the application closes, post the contents of the terminal, any error messages here. It'll make it a lot easier to solve the problem. 

It may be a Segmentation Fault error. These can be caused by many things in my experience, fault ram and poor overclocks being two of the biggest causes.

---

### Post by WEMV on 2010-05-09
I thought I had this fixed with a complete reinstall, but last night it started doing it again. It always seems to be in Firefox but not always the same web page. One time it will happen every time I hit a certain web page but the next time I start the computer it will be a different web page. I will try it from the terminal and see what happens.

Ed

---

### Post by WEMV on 2010-05-09
I opened Firefox in the terminal and the second web page I hit I was suddenly back at the Log on screen. After logging back in I opened the terminal and found as expected that all messages were wiped out when the log out happened. Can't find any logs either. This appears to be getting worse as time goes on. This does not make for pleasant computing.  I had no problem with this when using 9.10. 

Ed

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2010-05-09
> **WEMV said:**
> I opened Firefox in the terminal and the second web page I hit I was suddenly back at the Log on screen. After logging back in I opened the terminal and found as expected that all messages were wiped out when the log out happened. Can't find any logs either. This appears to be getting worse as time goes on. This does not make for pleasant computing.  I had no problem with this when using 9.10. 

Ed

Ok, instead run Firefox with 

```
firefox > error.txt
```

That will create an error file in your home directory. Upload the contents here please :)

---

### Post by WEMV on 2010-05-09
I started Firefox in the terminal using firefox > error.txt. I started surfing and bam I was back a the Log on screen. I opened the error file that was created but there was nothing in it, totally empty. 

Thanks,

Ed

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2010-05-09
> **WEMV said:**
> I started Firefox in the terminal using firefox > error.txt. I started surfing and bam I was back a the Log on screen. I opened the error file that was created but there was nothing in it, totally empty. 

Thanks,

Ed

Hmmm, I'm at a loss then mate, sorry

---

### Post by WEMV on 2010-05-09
Thanks for the help The Real Dave. 

Anyone else have any suggestion. This is real frustrating. I don't really want to have to go back to 9.10 but this is getting to be unusable. I tried Chrome for a while without a problem but the scrolling in Chrome is just horrible.

Ed

---

### Post by sumoman on 2010-05-09
Ed.
I agree with you on your comment about Chrome.  Even Flash videos seem to play a lot smoother in Firefox.  But until the random logout issue is resolved I have no choice but to continue using Chrome.  This is a real irritant especially on an LTS.

---

### Post by sumoman on 2010-05-09
I started using 10.04 with the Alpha release and there was some chatter about a Plymouth bug causing random logouts.  Anyone heard anything more about this?

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2010-05-10
> **sumoman said:**
> I started using 10.04 with the Alpha release and there was some chatter about a Plymouth bug causing random logouts.  Anyone heard anything more about this?

Perhaps you could do a search over at Launchpad to find the bug report?

---

### Post by sumoman on 2010-05-10
> **The Real Dave said:**
> Perhaps you could do a search over at Launchpad to find the bug report?

I found this bug report over on launchpad per your suggestion.  Sure does sound like whats happening.  As of now it sounds like the bug has not been fixed.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/543399](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-ati/+bug/543399)

---

### Post by jobdone on 2010-05-18
Ok here is my input , I have the same problem on my sons laptop after upgrading from Karmic , I can confirm that the problem doesn't exist on 'Chrome' and after setting a xorg.conf to use the radeon driver and turning on visual effects to 'Normal' this bug disappears???
Ok just to add to that I also have an old ati graphics chipset on my  wifes laptop too (different to my sons) and the same fix worked for that  too , this bug usually occurs for me when checking mail on hotmail.com  and clicking on any mail in my inbox to view it....

---

### Post by DrKenobi on 2010-05-18
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/582206]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/582206")

---

### Post by algould on 2010-06-08
I did a clean, automatic install of Xubuntu 10.4 followed by updates and was experiencing random logouts.  The computer is a Dell Dimension 8100 (circa 2000) with 1.5GHz processor and 1GB RAM.

I reinstalled and re-updated with the following differences:

1. I manually specified 1GB of swap.
2. I gave the rest of the hard drive to /.  I know this is not the best-of-class practice, but it ensures that temp and var directories have plenty of space without limiting home.
3. I did not install the proprietary hardware drivers (nVidia).

I have not had any random logouts since the re-installation, 2 nights ago.

I hope this helps.

Andrew

---

### Post by algould on 2010-06-09
I spoke too soon.  Last night I couldn't surf the web for more than 3-5 minutes without a logout.

I installed NetBSD this morning.

---

### Post by calpopin on 2010-06-09
Here is the solution:
open terminal and past :
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bryceharrington/purple

it ask you for password and then acquire private keys and add a new source repository.
then open your update manager  hit the check button and start the update from  the bryceharrington part. should contain xcore_server or something near.

i had the same problem and it fixed it all for me.

all explanations in this bug report :
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/539772](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/539772)

and the specific answer is at the post 29.
enjoy :p

---

### Post by nitrofurano on 2010-09-03
this random logout bug persists on updated 10.10 alpha - how can i diagnose what may cause this?
what i can see is this bug is not specifically related on a specific window manager - it happens on fluxbox, lxde, jwm, wm2, windowmaker, etc.

---

