---
title: "system email alerts sent to gmail address?"
date: 2018-11-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jfaberna on 2018-11-15
I have ssmtp setup on my system so I can get crontab alerts sent to my gmail address. I actually have 2 gmail address, one I created for the computer to use to sent messages and one is my regular email to receive these alerts. I followed the instructions below:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EmailAlerts](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EmailAlerts)

I'm getting the daily alerts correctly, but mail sent to root from the system, like smartd do not get sent to me.  Instead I get a Delivery Status Notification (Failure) from gmail to the email address setup for the computer to send out the alerts.

Any idea on how to fix this?

Jim A

 The response was:

DNS Error: 6824058 DNS type 'mx' lookup of mythbuntu responded with code NXDOMAIN Domain name not found: mythbuntu

Reporting-MTA: dns; googlemail.com
Received-From-MTA: dns; [email]XXXXXXXX@gmail.com[/email]
Arrival-Date: Wed, 14 Nov 2018 04:50:59 -0800 (PST)
X-Original-Message-ID: <5bec1a33.1c69fb81.d84f1.cd6a@mx.google.com>

Final-Recipient: rfc822; root@mythbuntu
Action: failed
Status: 4.0.0
Diagnostic-Code: smtp; DNS Error: 6824058 DNS type 'mx' lookup of mythbuntu responded with code NXDOMAIN
 Domain name not found: mythbuntu
Last-Attempt-Date: Wed, 14 Nov 2018 04:51:01 -0800 (PST)


ForwardedMessage.eml
Subject: 
SMART error (FailedOpenDevice) detected on host: mythbuntu
From: 
root <XXXXXXXXXX@gmail.com>
Date: 
11/14/18, 7:50 AM
To: 
<root@mythbuntu>

This message was generated by the smartd daemon running on:

   host name:  mythbuntu
   DNS domain: [Empty]

The following warning/error was logged by the smartd daemon:

Device: /dev/sdf [SAT], unable to open device

Device info:
TOSHIBA HDWD120, S/N:58NYHDVCS, WWN:5-000039-fd4db8021, FW:MX4OACF0, 2.00 TB

For details see host's SYSLOG.

You can also use the smartctl utility for further investigation.
The original message about this issue was sent at Tue Nov 13 07:50:57 2018 EST
Another message will be sent in 24 hours if the problem persists.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-11-15
> DNS Error: 6824058 DNS type 'mx' lookup of mythbuntu responded with code NXDOMAIN Domain name not found: mythbuntu

Remote servers can only send mail to fully-qualified domain names like mail.example.com. If you have a domain, use that, not "mythbuntu."

You could try using as an alternative the To address 

you@[10.10.10.10]

with your machine's IP address substituted for 10.10.10.10.

GMail is pretty picky so I can't promise it would work.

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2018-11-15
The point is my server is sending mail to my personal account. I've setup cron to do it and some SQL database maintenance stuff.  I get those emails.  The problem is other system functions like smartd send emails to root@mythbuntu. 

If I can't forward all mail to root to my personal address, I'll have to figure out each system daemon that sends mail to root and change that address.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-11-16
Add an entry to /etc/aliases that points root to your email address.

```

root:     me@example.com

```

Then run the "newaliases" command.  Note the colon after "root".

---

### Post by 1clue on 2018-11-16
Gmail wants you to send FROM a real domain too. They have lots of rules to prevent spam and malware. There are instructions with gmail to configure your systems, can't really remember much of it but years ago when I did it we had to add a bunch of extra records to the company's dns.

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2018-11-16
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Add an entry to /etc/aliases that points root to your email address.

```

root:     me@example.com

```

Then run the "newaliases" command.  Note the colon after "root".

Unfortunately, newaliases isn't used by ssmtp

[PHP]jim@mythbuntu:~$ sudo newaliases
newaliases: Aliases are not used in sSMTP[/PHP]

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2018-11-16
> **1clue said:**
> Gmail wants you to send FROM a real domain too. They have lots of rules to prevent spam and malware. There are instructions with gmail to configure your systems, can't really remember much of it but years ago when I did it we had to add a bunch of extra records to the company's dns.

I have my server sending mail as an gmail user to other gmail accounts. That's not the problem. I can't seem to get my sSMTP setup to forward internal mail sent to 'root' forwarded to a gmail account.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-11-16
> **jfaberna said:**
> Unfortunately, newaliases isn't used by ssmtp

[PHP]jim@mythbuntu:~$ sudo newaliases
newaliases: Aliases are not used in sSMTP[/PHP]

I only use sendmail or postfix, so I can't help with that.

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2018-11-16
So how difficult is it to install and use sendmail or postfix?  Can I install it over sSMTP?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2018-11-18
It might remove ssmtp. I know that's true for sendmail or Postfix when the other is installed. Do a backup first.

---

### Post by jfaberna on 2018-11-18
At this point I have found the config files for the system daemons that send mail.  I have set them to mail to my gmail address instead of root.  So maybe the problem is solved.  At least when somebody sends mail to root I get a bounce back from gmail to my sender gmail account.  At this point cron, smartd, and mdadm will send mail to gmail instead of root. 

Thanks for the help, but I think I'll just keep sSMTP.

---

