---
title: "9.04 freezes after login"
date: 2009-12-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tobias-sama on 2009-12-18
[COLOR="Indigo"]I recently upgraded to ubuntu 9.04 however when I try to login, after entering my username and password and pressing enter it goes over to the loading screen, plays the login noise and freezes. 

and that's it. What do I do? How do I fix it?

please help, I want my lappy back!


also, I can get into the terminal and fix stuff, so if there's anything I can do there, please very specifically tell me how to do it >.<[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Tobias-sama on 2009-12-20
[COLOR="indigo"]please..? anyone? I kinda need some of the stuff off that computer..[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Talon2 on 2009-12-20
What video chipset does your lappy have?

You can likely run "lspci" in a command prompt and get the answer.  Post the output here.

---

### Post by Tobias-sama on 2009-12-21
[COLOR="Indigo"]okay.. lspci spat out a bunch of stuff, but I assume you only want the video stuff so..

hmm.. I think the VGA controller might be what you're asking for since everything else appears to be a USB port 

01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI technologies inc m22 [mobility radeon x300]

if its something else you need please tell me :P[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Talon2 on 2009-12-21
I support systems with various ATI cards (9200-9600).  The ones I have work wonderfully with the open source driver.  I've heard the x300 is problematic.  It might be a good idea to switch to the VESA driver (at least until you sort things out).  As I say this I remember I can't say that I know how to do this on 9.04 and 9.10.  If I find the answer I'll let you know.

---

### Post by dagarwal82 on 2009-12-21
Try logging in through guest account. let me know if it works. (If there is no guest account then try creating a new account and then try logging in)

---

### Post by Tobias-sama on 2009-12-23
[COLOR="indigo"]okay, I might look into getting this VESA driver thing.. 
also tried a few new things;

failsafe gnome works fine, from there I was able to log into a guest account, however, I thought I'd  try setting up auto-login to solve my problem, now it just flys past the login screen  and freezes.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by dagarwal82 on 2009-12-23
> **Tobias-sama said:**
> [COLOR=indigo]okay, I might look into getting this VESA driver thing.. 
also tried a few new things;

failsafe gnome works fine, from there I was able to log into a guest account, however, I thought I'd  try setting up auto-login to solve my problem, now it just flys past the login screen  and freezes.[/COLOR]
It happened to me a couple of times and I found one of the 2 problems each time (might be you are having too):

1) I was out of the disk space
2) Permissions over directories were screwed. 

So, you can give them a shot and verify.

---

### Post by Tobias-sama on 2009-12-23
[COLOR="Indigo"]okay, okay, that's... good news I guess.. 

do you know which directories might be having permissions issues? (I don't think it's a disk space problem, but if it is how do I check something like that in terminal?) and how to fix them through terminal, 

remember, I know pretty much nothing about dealing with stuff in terminal XD

thanks :P[/COLOR]

---

