---
title: "Monitor Resolution Stuck"
date: 2008-08-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nikio on 2008-08-25
Hello everyone!
I have an LG M228WA monitor that should run at 1680x1050@60Hz with a 24 bit colordepth,
I've wasted all day trying to reconfigure the xorg.conf file, 
nothing happens!
I've tryed to add the appropriate horizontal and vertical rates, the appropriate mode... I've even tryed to delete completely the xorg.conf file! I've tryed to reinstall the vesa drivers; but the monitor is stuck into a 1280x1024 format, (or lower resolutions as an option)
The strange thing is that these resolutions are not in the xorg.conf file!

I'll post my xorg.conf file, but I'm afraid that the problem is somewhere else

I'm lost, can anyone help?

---

### Post by Ryadt on 2008-08-25
Did you try ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by nikio on 2008-08-25
> **Ryadt said:**
> Did you try ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

I forgot to tell, I did, many, many times!

I forgot to post the xorg.conf file too, here it is:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"it"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection




Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"

#I've added these lines, values from [http://www.bohne-lang.de/spec/linux/modeline/](http://www.bohne-lang.de/spec/linux/modeline/)
		HorizSync 28-83
		VertRefresh 56-75
 		Modeline "1680x1050_60.00" 149.00  1680 1760 1944 2280  1050 1050 1052 1089
#

EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
#And these ones
		SubSection "Display"
			Depth 24
			Modes "1680x1050_60.00"
		EndSubSection
#
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"

EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection


---

### Post by nikio on 2008-08-25
Update:
I messed arround with the xorg.conf file until ubuntu was confused enough to start at 800x600 mode and to ask me to reconfigure manually the display,\\:D/
I thought I had almost did it:
a kind of graphical wizard started that offered me several possibilities, my model was not available so I chose PNP LCD with 1680x1050 resolution... this gave me back my grahical interface =D>
but still at 1280x1024 ](*,)

Does anyone know how that wizard may be called?
is there some way to update it so that my LCD is included?
is there someone that has an LG M228WA that could post me his xorg.conf file?

---

