---
title: "2.6.15.1 kernel: black screen on startup, black screen on shutdown, doesn't shutdown"
date: 2006-01-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bjrnfrdnnd on 2006-01-30
Hello, 
I just installed the 2.6.15.1 kernel form kernel.org using my configuration file 
from the 2.6.12 kernel, using kubuntu breezy on a samsung x20 xvm1600II.
I only get boot messages, if I use the vga=normal option. 
vga=794 results into a black screen, as does ro quiet splash (I suppose I need a ubuntu kernel to use that). 
During shutdown, the screen also turns black, but no shutdown happens. 
I can contact my computer via ssh and even 
sudo halt 
doesnt't do anything. 

Any ideas?
And completely unrelated: When I boot into X (kdm), my computer goes into
suspend mode after my typing my password. No idea where I specified this
kind of behavior. Wakes up without problems when I use the powerbutton, though.

---

### Post by kaamos on 2006-01-30
> I just installed the 2.6.15.1 kernel form kernel.org using my configuration file
from the 2.6.12 kernel, using kubuntu breezy on a samsung x20 xvm1600II.
I only get boot messages, if I use the vga=normal option.
vga=794 results into a black screen, as does ro quiet splash (I suppose I need a ubuntu kernel to use that).
During shutdown, the screen also turns black, and after 2 minutes, the computer
is still doing stuff, so I conclude it will not shutdown at all. 
Hello!

Unfortunately I can't help you, but I can tell that I got **exactly** the same problems with 2.6.15-ck1 (and radeon mobility 9000). I hope someone here knows a fix for this?

For the time being, I'm still using a 2.6.14 kernel.

---

