---
title: ".hlp file viewer for lubuntu 18.04"
date: 2018-12-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by otayiz on 2018-12-14
Hi,

I'm trying to open these .hlp files, old windows help file format. They are for a Spanish course, they include grammar lessons. 

I cannot find a way to open these files on lubuntu 18.04 I am using. I googled for it, but all links-software I have found are down. 

If you know a way to open/view these files from lubuntu, please help,

Thanks.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2018-12-14
MS produced a fistful of differing help file formats, most of which were incompatible with each other, so your success will depend on the version of the .hlp file you are working with. No guarantees. However, I did find the following which you might want to try. WARNING: it's a KDE app and I note that you are using Lubuntu. A KDE app is likely to pull in a ridiculous ton of dependencies which will negate the leanness and efficency of Lubuntu, so fair warning:```
sudo apt install kchmviewer
```
You may wish to put it through a dry run first (nothing gets installed) with the -s switch just to see how many dependencies will be dragged in:```
sudo apt install -s kchmviewer
```In my bare-bones Lubuntu VM, it would have dragged in 311 dependent packages, which would be a deal breaker for me.

Another alternative is to view it from a Windows installation. Do you dual boot or have a Windows VM?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2018-12-14
Just found another one for you that will be much leaner called, xchm. It pulls in only 4 dependencies which is much more reasonable. I have no idea how useful these apps are or if they will read your particular .hlp files. I am not familiar with any of these apps, so you will just have to try them for yourself:```
sudo apt install xchm
```

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2018-12-15
If you have wine installed, there's also a reader for windows help files included with that. It's called winhlp32.exe and should be in ~/wine/drive_c/windows.
kchmviewer and xchm are meant for .chm-files. Those are compressed html, a format that started appearing with Windows 95 or 98, while files with the extension .hlp (with varying internal structure) have been in windows since the very beginning.
A look at the output of 'file name-of-the-hlp-file' in a shell may tell you what the file actually is.

Holger

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-12-15
Hmm, did you try a browser like Firefox?

---

