---
title: "10.04 RC Nvidia trouble"
date: 2010-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by serbforce on 2010-04-23
Hello, i just installed Ubuntu 10.04 RC, and only basic graphics work.I have Nvidia GeForce 9600 GT. I cant enable desktop effects, nor can i watch video or anything else. Is there a way to install nvidia driver in RC? It looks and feels real nice i wish i can start using it right now :) . Thank you very much in advance.

---

### Post by Seq on 2010-04-23
Yes, the same way as before: System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-04-23
> **Seq said:**
> Yes, the same way as before: System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

Yes, choose the "Current" recommended driver.

Tim

---

### Post by serbforce on 2010-04-23
> **Seq said:**
> Yes, the same way as before: System > Administration > Hardware Drivers

[IMG]http://img638.imageshack.us/img638/2535/screenshotto.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Seq on 2010-04-23
> **serbforce said:**
> (snip big img)

Have you got the "restricted" sources enabled in "Software Sources"?

---

### Post by WinterRain on 2010-04-23
Check your repos in system>administration>software sources and make sure all are checked off.

---

### Post by serbforce on 2010-04-23
Yes everything is checked, but source code... and no driver is aveiable :(

---

### Post by howefield on 2010-04-24
If as you said, you have just installed the RC, you may need to update your sources to get the drivers to show.

In terminal type

```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

### Post by serbforce on 2010-04-29
Issues still persists, after instalation fo Lucid Final , any help is appriciated, thanks in advance.

-serbforce

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2010-05-02
I don't know whether you ever got past this, so I will tell you that a guy on freenode had the same problem and he fixed it by enabling restricted drivers. Sometimes, the simplest things are the hardest to remember.

Tim

---

### Post by Woody1987 on 2010-05-02
You can install manually from the terminal.

```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

restart

---

