---
title: "10.04 and the Black screen of death."
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brawd on 2010-05-01
Hi all,
Before anybody tells me to go to bugzilla or launchpad I want you to know I've been there and didn't understand a thing about those sites. They are not for cretins like me.

So, details for the bug I've got.

I have the admin account on my computer, therefore I am a god on my computer.

My wife has a desktop account because she can break anything without it being her fault. Therefore she is the chief goddess so everything is my fault.

Now if I switch to her account using Logout everything is fine.
When I switch from her account to my account using Logout I get a Black screen of death.
This is every time.
The only way out of it is to power down and restart.

Set up is Ubuntu 10.04.
LTS AMD64x2 and ASRock AliveNF6P-VSTA Mobo for hardware.

Update manager says this machine is up to date.

If anyone wants to claim this bug as their own and send it to the proper place that's fine with me. It's probably a good idea.

regards,

brawd.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2010-05-01
Hello,

this is the quickest and I think less harmful thing you could try:

try to create a new account and see if switching to that everything is ok. If affirmative, transfer all your data there and then erase your original one.

Regards!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-01
before calling the fire troops, perform and clean the room :P

fresh install or dist-upgrade ?
only genuine lucid repo or some exotic one too ?
have glance at logs (system admin log viewer) and .xsession-errors (/home)

sudo dpkg --configure -a

install gconf-cleaner and use it

---

### Post by brawd on 2010-05-01
I made the new desktop user account and that worked fine.
In fact it's all been working fine ever since.
Isn't that just typical!

regards to all,

brawd

---

### Post by brawd on 2010-05-02
Sad to report that it's back again. I kept the dummy desktop user in but didn't use it after the test.

Just when I thought I was in the clear back it came again.

It's back to the shutdown and reboot.

Ahhh, would you believe it.

regards,

brawd.

PS. It just occurred to me that if I delete all Desktop users for a couple of days and make another 'Computer God' account and see how that goes.

b.

---

### Post by techunit on 2010-05-02
Are you using the ATI restricted Drivers It will cause this problem

---

### Post by brawd on 2010-05-03
I'm using nvidia restricted drivers so my grandson can play his games, but that will now have to go.

Tough on grandson, but that's life.

brawd.

---

### Post by techunit on 2010-05-03
The Nvidia Drivers will cause similar issues

---

### Post by brawd on 2010-05-15
No that didn't work.

I've been on holiday so that's why there is a delay.

A bit more trial and error (no pun intended) narrowed the problem down to this:

I as custom user invoke the switch user command.
Log in screen appears.
My wife logs in as desktop user. Potters about farmville harvesting crops.
My wife logs out.
Screen goes black, no response from computer other than reset or hold power button for 4 secs to reset.

Now the way around this is I have to log out.
Log in screen appears.
My wife then logs in, and usually potters around farmville to stop the grandsons puppy starving to death.
Wife logs out.
Log in selector screen comes up as it should.

Dummy accounts do not change the fact that if I use switch user we are faced with a Black Screen of Death.

Any further suggestions please?

regards,

brawd.

The situation is nowhere near the end of the world, it's just that it would be nice if it didn't happen.

---

### Post by brawd on 2010-05-15
Well at the risk of boring the pants of everyone I did a few tests.

Complete new install of 10.04. (Had a bath whilst that was going on). Downloaded and installed updates. 

Made the wife's account, a standard desktop variety.
Took switch user and logged into dearly beloved's account, then logged out.
Still got the Black Screen of Death.

Made test1 account, a standard desktop variety.
Took switch user to test1, logged in, logged out.
Still got the Black Screen of Death.

Made up 301test account, custom type and identical to mine.
Took switch user, logged in, logged out.

A change in disaster parameters!!

Got a very dark screen, just enough to pick out the names and get back to my account and a bright screen.

This was not repeatable, afterwards some times dark but just see-able otherwise had the Black Screen of Death.
Signed in to 301test, took switch user
Went to test1 account, logged out.
Black screen of death.

On reboot logged into wife's account.
Took switch user to test1 account, which is desktop user same as wife.
Logged in, logged out.

Success!!  (At least my wife was delighted to tell me it wasn't her fault and I should never ever have thought that it was).

It doesn't seem to make a difference if I load nVidia drivers or not.
I have to use the 96 one if I want 3D, never mind what the recommendation is.

Anybody else spotted others on the forum with this problem or is it just me?

I bet it's just me.

Doh!

regards,

brawd.

---

### Post by brawd on 2010-06-03
I don't know if it is still there. Now I don't take change user I log out instead, this has solved the problem for me.

Knowing so little about Ubuntu is a pain, but what little I do know suggests that the backroom boys are at work and no doubt someday soon an update will occur that will solve this minor bug.

Nonetheless, if any developers read this can I say thank you for a very good operating system.

regards,

brawd.

---

### Post by Duckshover on 2010-06-16
I'm interested in this fault as I am suffering from the exact same Black Screen when logging off a user while another is still logged on. Whats more it occurs on two of my machines.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-06-16
When you get the black screen try this.

Alt+Sysrq+k

This should kill the x session and take you to the login screen. It could be x is locking up.

If you have a launchpad account I would bug this.
Open a terminal.

```
ubuntu-bug xserver-xorg
```

This will collect info about your system. You can then explain the problem in the bug report.

---

