---
title: "11.10 broke my hard drive! FFS!"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ken UK on 2011-10-19
I had Windows XP for years but a power cut cause my hard drive to crash. I then bought a new one and put Ubuntu on, been happy for over 6 months until i upgraded to 11.10. When I left the computer and came back it woke up but only with the destop photo, nothing would work or appear, I tried to switch to the command line and everything but Ubuntu had froze. I had to restart and that seems to have killed my hard drive so I couldn't be more p*ssed!!!
Most of my stuff is backed up on UbuntuOne but the fact I could replace the hard drive to just happen again means I feel I can't trust it at all. I bet I've lost something as well.

Thanks alot Ubuntu 11.10 for messing things up for me and leaving me computerless just when I need one the most.

---

### Post by tartalo on 2011-10-19
Killed the hard drive? A forced reboot might have corrupted the logic structure (which can be easily repaired with a Linux Live) but the cause of physically damaged hard drive has to be looked for in the hardware, most probably in the HD itself. 

Are you sure it had to be replaced?

---

### Post by Ken UK on 2011-10-20
Thanks for the reply, the first one did because it was clicking and would only last seconds before it stopped. The second one I haven't had enoughtime to look at because it happened late last night. It makes no noise and when I boot it says reboot and select another option or whatever. I checked the BIOS and it's not detected, try loading default BIOS setting but nothing, will try the hard drive in another computer because it's less than 12 months old but the motherboard is over 4 years.

If I had to recover data from the drive (presuming it's not dead) and the home directory is encrypted how do I go about using my passcode to do that?

---

### Post by Hardy Severit on 2011-10-20
G'day. 
Had something very similar recently, thought it was my hdd, but it turned out to be a defective motherboard (hdd controller died on a board slightly older than 2 years)....
H.

---

### Post by james.m on 2011-10-20
> **Ken UK said:**
> Thanks alot Ubuntu 11.10 for messing things up for me and leaving me computerless just when I need one the most.

Condolences on your loss, but its a bit of a stretch to blame Ubuntu for killing your drive. I think you were just unlucky and the drive was on its last legs.

---

### Post by Grenage on 2011-10-20
An upgrade will cause increased disc activity, which may make a problem more apparent - but it won't have killed your drive.  Mechanical components do just die. ;)

If it's not showing up in the BIOS, then it probably is dead.

---

### Post by JasonFWard on 2011-10-20
Software cannot physically break a drive.  If the drive has a physical failure then the drive is faulty, nothing to do with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by coldraven on 2011-10-20
I gave up using encryption after I had to try and recover an encrypted file inside an encrypted folder on a Windows box. What a nightmare!
Now I just use a file called "Readme.txt" and figure that nobody will actually bother to open it. :)

---

### Post by xtremo on 2011-10-20
As stated there's no way 11.10 has physically damaged your hard drive.

The Unity interface may cause some mental anguish but that's as far as it goes!:P

---

### Post by tartalo on 2011-10-20
No, it's not impossible, it is theoretically possible to cause damage to the hard drive via software, it's however very unlikely that such a huge bug wouldn't be discovered by the Linux Kernel developers before release.

Having in account that the OP has had problems with Windows XP too he should look for the cause in the hardware.

---

### Post by irv on 2011-10-20
Call the manufacture of the HD tell him you can not see the drive in the BIOS, ask them for a RMT #. Send it back and have them replace it. You have a defective HD. I was a dealer for many year and I saw many HD just failed. Just tell the manufacture the computer was just sitting idle when it failed. They deal with these issues all the time. I can't even remember how many drive I sent back in my lifetime, but it has been a lot.

---

### Post by Ken UK on 2011-10-20
Thanks for all he supportive and useful replies but I'm surprised so many of you missed it, maybe I didn't explain it well. I was saying Ubuntu directly caused it to fail but it froze up and wouldn't let me do anything and it wasn't just the graphical side either. The fact I was forced to switch it off possibly while the hard drive was trying to do something is the only logical possibility I can see. The drive is only 6 months old but it's a good quality WD drive with 3 years warranty. Before I try to claim back though I want to try everything first to make sure it's the hard drive that's dead, with some luck it might just be my motherboard (although that means I might as well get a new computer its so old).

I was harsh in my first post but it was only from anger from a number of things, recent problems with my iPhone, updating my MacBook broke the installation and now this. The only major problem ive had with Ubuntu so far which has bothered me other than this is the stability of some applications being very inconsistent or just bad. Netbeans and libreoffice is fine most most other applications just seem so unstable such as Banshee, Skype and bunch of other random ones. It's not much good if the OS is stable but half of the programs arnt!

---

### Post by james.m on 2011-10-20
> **Ken UK said:**
> The fact I was forced to switch it off possibly while the hard drive was trying to do something is the only logical possibility I can see. 

I've seen this happen on ancient SCSI drives were the head wasn't parked properly before powering off, but that was well over 20 years ago. Turning the power off to a modern drive will cause issues with the file-system but the drive itself will be fine.

You have a dodgy drive, nothing more. And if it really is cactus, then there is little you can do, short of sending it to a data recovery place and letting them get the data back off for you.

---

### Post by pizza-is-good on 2011-10-20
There is a simple troubleshooting solution to your problem, OP.

Create a liveCD/USB of Ubuntu, boot from it, and use Ubuntu's Disk Utility to analyze the HDD. The SMART Data will specifically tell you what is wrong with it, if anything at all. 

We may be able to help more when you tell us what the computer says is happening to it :)

~pizza

---

### Post by irv on 2011-10-20
It could be just the opposite of what you are saying. There could have been a hardware failure which cause the computer to freeze up, and you had no choice but to power it off. Seeing the hardware failed it would not start back up. Just another thought.

---

### Post by jmate24 on 2011-10-20
Try reformatting it to btrfs instead of ext3 or ext4 if that does not work try formatting it to ntfs and try windows if that does not work then it probably is a hardware problem and it may have to do with your motherboard or the board on the hdd itself which can be easily replaced with a like model and soldered into place.

---

### Post by Ken UK on 2011-10-21
Thanks for all the great info, lots for me to try this weekend.
I do have a live disc for 10.04 to 11.04 so that's not a problem thank goodness, I will try some of the stuff you have been telling me.
I didn't know about the switching off your computer fact? But does make sense with how many  times I've had to do that with Windows. Im not sure I'm convinced though as that's how my Last hard drive went, running fine without a sound then FF froze Windows up so force restart, next thing I know there's the deadly clicking of death and it barely made it through initial boot. Maybe it was like you said though that it was the hard drive failing first but on the new one that seems unlikely doesn't it? I mean if it's part way through reading or writing and get the power cut what happens?

I will try to listen out for the drive working but there's nothing bad like clicking so maybe its not too bad, how can you tell if it's the board in the drive? I will try it in another machine to test the motherboard theory.

---

