---
title: "Neo-Magic Video Driver Issues"
date: 2006-05-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hostilepenguin on 2006-05-18
The system:
I'm running Breezy on an old Gateway 2500 Notebook. PII 400mhz  64mb RAM
 
The Graphics card is a NeoMagic NM2160 and the screen is a MagicGraph 128XD. I beleive, though I'm not sure, the card has 2mb of RAM. Obviously, this is an LCD screen.

I used the server install and I've been adding the components that I want from aptitude. My current WM is Fluxbox, though I get the same problem with Gnome and BlackBox. I'm pretty sure the WM doesn't matter, but I've included the information just in case.

The Monitor is capable of 24 bit color and 1024x768 resolution, but X will only display at 800x600. There is also a black band at the right side of my screen and at the bottom of my screen.

Here's the odd thing. My xorg.conf file says it should be displaying at the proper resolution. In fact, none of the other resolutions are possible, at least according to the conf file.

I found posters with similar issues: [Here]("http://http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=33330&highlight=neomagic+video"),  [Here]("http://http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32651&highlight=neomagic+video"), and [here]("http://http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=161784&highlight=neomagic"). I've done what other people told the posters to do, but whenever I restart the x-server it comes back in 800x600. ](*,)  Any advice?

Oh, and here is my original xorg.conf for your enjoyment:
> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NeoMagic Corporation NM2160 [MagicGraph 128XD]"
	Driver		"neomagic"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NeoMagic Corporation NM2160 [MagicGraph 128XD]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

Edit: I noticed after I made this post that the link for video supoort of the fourms page automatically took me to Watrty Support for some reason. Is this a bug in the forum or should I move this to Laptop support?

---

### Post by DegmarL on 2006-05-24
Hi!
Being root, in /etc/X11/xorg.conf :
replace :
defaultdepth 24
by :
defaultdepth 16

Then reboot.

I tested it using an Inspiron 3000 (Neomagic NM2160 and XGA LCD) on Ubuntu 5.10.

Working fine now on laptop LCD panel.

:D Best regards.

---

