---
title: "8.10 help needed"
date: 2008-12-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by connie8890 on 2008-12-06
Wanting to put 8.10 on an older computer. Specs are Pent. 2, 348 mhz processor, 128Ram, switching it to 256Ram, 7GB HD. Running XP now. What is the better version to use on this computer? 
Also, I want to find out how to order a live CD for the 8.10 version so I can try it out on my other computers to see if I like it and to make sure it supports all my hardware/software.

---

### Post by lovelyvik293 on 2008-12-06
For ubuntu you have to have 256 MB of RAM.And 2 Gb of hard disk space.

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-12-06
Xubuntu is a lot lighter than the standard Ubuntu and should run faster.
The live CDs can be downloaded from the main ubuntu site, or ordered from there.

---

### Post by connie8890 on 2008-12-06
Can I order the live cd for the 8.10 also? I want to try it out on my other 2 computers. They have plenty of space on them.

---

### Post by rrpslayer on 2008-12-06
you can order the latest version of ubuntu from here 

[https://shipit.ubuntu.com/](https://shipit.ubuntu.com/)

You can order free but it takes a while if you do. You can also order a paid one (which comes faster i think)

---

### Post by connie8890 on 2008-12-06
I feel stupid. Is the CD that comes, a live CD that I can try out or is that a separate CD. I ordered the 8.10 and have it but I'm not sure about how to try it out without erasing my current OS.
I don't want to have to reinstall XP if I don't like it because I have to call Microsoft to get the code entered because they say I've entered it too many times.

---

### Post by oilchangeguy on 2008-12-06
> **connie8890 said:**
> I feel stupid. Is the CD that comes, a live CD that I can try out or is that a separate CD. I ordered the 8.10 and have it but I'm not sure about how to try it out without erasing my current OS.
I don't want to have to reinstall XP if I don't like it because I have to call Microsoft to get the code entered because they say I've entered it too many times.

unless you ordered the alternate cd, it's a "live cd". and you can run the computer from the cd to test drive ubuntu, without touching the hard drive. you'll find xubuntu to be a better fit for your computer. as you'll need at least 384mb of ram to run a ubuntu live cd.

---

### Post by Sorivenul on 2008-12-06
The one that comes from ShipIt is a LiveCD, unless you specified the Alternate CD.
The first option on the CD is the one to try it without installing.

EDIT: Beat to it.

I agree with the above post.  Xubuntu will be a better fit for your hardware, and it is very similar to Ubuntu - the main differences are cosmetic.  The only problem is they currently do not offer free CDs through ShipIt, so you would have to download and burn them yourself, or have a friend help you.

---

### Post by connie8890 on 2008-12-06
Like I said, I FEEl STUPID...Must have blond roots somewhere even tho I'm brunette. I just ordered right off the shipit form, so I guess I have the right one. I could have been using it this whole time#-o One of those "I could have had a V-8 days".....
Thanks everyone.

---

