---
title: "Is 11.04 32-bit less buggy than 64-bit?"
date: 2011-07-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pcvchriskmg on 2011-07-25
Hi,

'Buggy' may be too strong a word, but I am having frequent issues with my 11.04 Ubuntu installation.

I've been running 11.04 NN 64-bit on a machine with 4 GB RAM and a Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU T6500 @2.10 GHz processor. I run W7 64-bit with no problems on the same machine.

This is a dual boot system with W7 and Ubuntu on separate partitions.

Frequently, when I click on icons, they don't open. For example, when I click on the 'Software Center' on the left pane, it does not open. When I click on the 'Evolution' icon in the tray, it does not open.

The minimize button for LibreOffice Calc seems to be missing.

Is the 32-bit version a safer bet? I've heard such positive things about Ubuntu, and I am surprised at some of these little issues I am having. Should I go back a couple releases, maybe install 10.10 instead or 10.4 instead?

Any feedback welcome.

Thanks,
Chris

---

### Post by timgood on 2011-07-25
There are no bugs in 11.04, only features. :p

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-07-25
i have found this problems in 11.04
1. theme changing automatically after restart
2. system freeze while playing mp3 in VLC
3.system freeze while doing update 
         
                             but i am happy with 11.04 man ,

---

### Post by StephanG on 2011-07-25
Well, I just posted about my Kopete problems, and there are a lot of small problems I'm having with the 64 bit version of Kubuntu, that I never had with the 32 bit version.  And some 32 bit version hiccups have disappeared...  So, they do seem to be different beasts.

So, I would say that trying the 32 bit version could help improve your experience.  But, 11.04 is, in general still a little bit experimental.  Otherwise, if those little problems really bug you, you could just log out and choose to log back in using the default desktop environment, gnome 2.  But, it shouldn't be necessary to switch back to 10.10.

---

