---
title: "9.10 Log In Sound Distorted"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jake1017 on 2009-11-06
When I log on the splash screen is displayed and accompanied by the log in sound. My problem is the sound is distorted also the splash screen's loading bar is jittery.

Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by -jay- on 2009-11-06
mines the same way images & sound all distorted

---

### Post by vlad_novak on 2009-11-06
Same here, along with several very annoying minor bugs I've never had in 9.04.

Login sound is distorted and all messed up. Totally creepy if you left the sound volume high before logging off.

Plus, do not try the option 'enhance color contrast' in Login Screen, it irreversibly messes up the colors of dialog boxes, panel and buttons. :-/

---

### Post by jake1017 on 2009-11-08
Doesn't anyone have any solutions?

---

### Post by setiamon on 2009-11-08
I just reinstalled jaunty.

karmic audio is jacked


x-fi

---

### Post by jake1017 on 2009-11-08
All other audio is fine. In fact this is the best Ubuntu release (for me) so far. It's just this little problem.

---

### Post by Vernünftiger Verbrecher on 2009-11-08
My audio works perfectly fine at login, but the progress bar is quite jittery. The only other problem I had with Karmic was that Grub2 would go directly into the OS. Was a real nuisance.

Two other bugs I have: When I switch to tty1 and back to the GUI, screen remains black. I then have to force reset. The second bug, sometimes when the screen saver is on for awhile it will freeze my laptop when I move the mouse or press a key. Am I the only one?

---

