---
title: "Feisty boot: &quot;fsck died with exit status 8&quot;"
date: 2007-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dave54 on 2007-04-20
I have a clean install of Ubuntu Feisty (works well). I rebooted and suddenly things aren't so great.

It showed the black screen with white letters saying "fsck died with exit status 8" among other things. It said to repair the file system manually and gave me a debugging shell, I think.

I typed "shutdown", and it complained about needing a time. I typed "shutdown --help" and the help flew by very fast, only letting me see the bottom half. First question: how do I make it go page by page?

So I took a guess and typed "shutdown now". It returned the familiar "sending all processes the term signal" and "sent all processes the kill signal", etc. Suddenly, it gave me that tan screen with the mouse, and brought me to the login screen.

So that's where I'm at. I'm kinda afraid to shut my computer down again. How did it finish booting up at the exact moment it should have finished shutting down???

Here is the file /var/log/fsck/checkfs
```
Log of fsck -C -R -A -a 
Fri Apr 20 15:58:43 2007

fsck 1.40-WIP (14-Nov-2006)
fsck.ext3: No such file or directory while trying to open /dev/sdb1

/dev/sdb1: 
The superblock could not be read or does not describe a correct ext2
filesystem.  If the device is valid and it really contains an ext2
filesystem (and not swap or ufs or something else), then the superblock
is corrupt, and you might try running e2fsck with an alternate superblock:
    e2fsck -b 8193 <device>

fsck died with exit status 8

Fri Apr 20 15:58:43 2007
----------------
```

Please help.
-Dave

---

### Post by Dave54 on 2007-04-20
I just noticed the log says something about "sdb1". I had backed up my data onto a slave hard drive before installing Feisty. I then connected the slave to get my data back off. To get the slave to work, I did the following:

```
sudo fdisk -l
```
This told me that my slave hard drive was called "sdb1"
```
sudo mkdir /media/slave
```
That made the mount point
```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
I edited the fstab and added the following line:
```
/dev/sdb1       /media/slave    ext3    defaults        0       2
```
Then I mounted it:
```
sudo mount -a
```


Here's my entire fstab if you want it:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda1
UUID=1ab4d114-3160-4f68-a029-18ee91a56595 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=495617f0-1283-4fce-90c4-1af068c57ee1 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0
/dev/fd0        /media/floppy0  auto    rw,user,noauto  0       0
/dev/sdb1       /media/slave    ext3    defaults        0       2
```

So, once I had all the data, I shut down, removed the drive, booted up, and ran into error you see in my first post.

I'm pretty sure I can fix the problem by removing that line from my fstab, but I still want my slave drive to be automatically mounted when it's connected. You see, I have a few hard drives in removable drawers, so I connect and disconnect them very easily. I would like it if whenever a slave hard drive is attached, it will mount automatically.

The way I tried to do that here worked for Edgy, but apparently not for Feisty. :( 

Any suggestions welcome.
-Dave

---

### Post by andrewmp on 2007-11-18
Take out the #'s in front of the devices (dev/hd?) and delete the UID's.  That should fix it.

---

### Post by fonsi2099 on 2007-11-25
My problem is the same please tell what can I do?
should apply the same solution: delete all the # and UUIDs

Many thanks for your help

 :confused:

this is my out put:


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda10 :
UUID=d706b7aa-165f-44b9-bc48-404c44cc3731 / reiserfs notail 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda12 :
UUID=b09def81-ad20-428e-9da2-1fa87d49e5d0 /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=d2066e85-8a93-452f-b168-ca120733a9ac /media/hda1 reiserfs defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hda2 :
UUID=60cc377a-2630-454c-93b5-26e6de95e967 /media/hda2 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hda3 :
UUID=EC00852E00850136 /media/hda3 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda13 :
UUID=44281aea-0cfd-438c-8862-fd1728db09d4 /media/sda13 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=8CC0-3D46 /media/sda5 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=9CCE-81F7 /media/sda6 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=04E0-DD0C /media/sda7 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=C8F2-F58B /media/sda8 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda9 :
UUID=f05158a1-e56b-48be-acbc-b29048554b01 /media/sda9 ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda14 :
UUID=5e3d76e3-463d-4b39-b9b4-8a95e5976547 /usr/local ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda11 :
UUID=4246e693-cb3a-4b22-bd3c-c5a85fba7234 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdb /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto,exec 0 0

---

### Post by Chymera on 2007-11-25
yep, I got smth similar after a system lockup, and still can't manut anything except removable media and my filesystem

here's my case: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=622404](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=622404)

---

### Post by Temujin_12 on 2008-06-27
I had a similar problem after upgrading from ubuntu server 6.10 to 8.04 (had to upgrade through 7.04, 7.10, then to 8.04).  I had a second slave drive that was identified by /dev/hdb1 that after one of the upgrades (I think it was when upgrading to 7.10), it changed to /dev/sdb1.  Doing a 'fdisk -l' I was able to determine which device was the drive that used to be /dev/hdb1 (looking at the sizes of drives).  I then just opened /etc/fstab and changed the line referencing '/dev/hdb1' to reference '/dev/sdb1' and the error went away.

Not sure how it got changed from /dev/hdb1 to /dev/sdb1, but everything is back in business.  :)

---

