---
title: "Update-Grub doesn't seem to work right...  (Grub 2)"
date: 2011-03-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by yonkiman on 2011-03-26
I damaged my grub2 config.  I can still easily launch my otherwise healthy Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit system using Partition Magic's Super Grub Disk 2's "detect any OS" utility, but when I try to boot from the system drive via it's grub2 installation, I get:

```
    error: out of disk.
    error: symbol not found: 'grub_os_area_addr'.
    error: symbol not found: 'grub_os_area_addr'.

      Failed to boot both default and fallback entries.

    Press any key to continue...
```

Per some advice I saw on the web, I booted the system back up using PM's utility, completely uninstalled grub2, grub-common, etc., made sure my /etc/grub.d directory was empty, reinstalled grub2 from synaptic, and ran update-grub, at which point it found my linux install and completed with no errors.

When I reboot now, I get the correct grub menu (there's only one linux install on the system - I don't have other disks/partitions with OSes), but when it tries to launch it, it fails as described above. 

When I look at the grub command that partition magic's utility generates that actually *works* (generated from the grub2 "edit command" option you can use before launch), it says:

```
    set root=hd5,1
    linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-28-generic root=<the correct UUID> ro
    initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic

```
However when I look at (from the grub boot menu) the command generated by "update-grub", I see:

```
    recordfail
    insmod part_msdos
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd4,msdos1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set <the correct UUID>
    linux /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-28-generic root=<the correct UUID> ro quiet splash
    initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic
```

So the working command says "set root=hd5,1" and the failing one "set root='(hd4,msdos1)'".

As you might expect, after I boot (using PM), when I look at the /etc/grub.d/00_header section of /boot/grub/grub.cfg, I see

```
    set root='(hd4, msdos1)'
```

in several places.  But it sure seems like it should be (hd5, msdos1) or (hd5, 1) or something with a 5 somewhere.  So why might update-grub be pointing to the wrong disk?

I have 4 bulk storage disks (mounted as sda/b/c/d) before this one - none of them are marked bootable (according to gparted).  My OS drive/partition is mounted as sde/sde1, and the Partition Magic usb stick (when it's attached) is sdf/sdf1.  So I don't believe my system drive is changing locations from hd4 to hd5 depending on whether or not my usb stick is inserted - the drive locations seem stable.

Any help appreciated!

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2011-03-26
I don't believe that whether they are marked as bootable or not has any effect in linux.  The disk that you want to boot off probably should be listed first in your bios.

Change the disk to the first entry in bios and go to 

[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net)

follow the instructions and post the results with your reply.

---

### Post by yonkiman on 2011-03-26
> **andrewthomas said:**
> The disk that you want to boot off probably should be listed first in your bios.

That was basically it.  The boot was not first in the BIOS, but that had been working fine for months because none of the other disks had grub installed/were bootable.  But sometime in the last day or two I must have accidentally installed grub to one of those disks, so while I was tweaking the grub on the right disk, the grub on the wrong disk was the one being used.

Moving it to the top of the list took care of it.  Thanks Andrew!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-03-26
Have you tried manually editing the grub menu with e? You may have to hold shift from BIOS until menu appears to get menu.

I had issues booting from my USB flash drive that was hd5 or 6 and I had to manually edit it to correct it. Sometimes search does not work correctly and editing that out entirely may work if set root is correct.

---

### Post by yonkiman on 2011-03-26
And that bootinfoscript is great - it would have shown me the problem right away:

```
 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sda and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for hi.
 => No boot loader is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdb
 => No boot loader is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdc
 => No boot loader is installed in the MBR of /dev/sdd
 => Grub 2 is installed in the MBR of /dev/sde and looks on the same drive in 
    partition #1 for (,msdos1)/boot/grub.
```

Is there a simple way to get rid of the Grub installation on sde that shouldn't be there (without losing the data on sde1)?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-03-26
If you do not boot a drive it does not matter what is in the MBR. I always suggest having grub's boot loader in the same drive as the system, so each drive is independent.

Boot script or grub report 'same drive' incorrectly. It usually is the correct drive as then it searches by UUID.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2011-03-26
According to [this]("http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-how-to-uninstall-grub/") site

You can delete the MBR of the drive **without deleteing the partition table as well** with the followiing command (note that I have not tested it so if you have valuable data there, be wary)

```
# dd if=/dev/null of=/dev/sdX bs=446 count=1
```

If you don't care about the partition table and don't mind reformatting the disc you can use dd, but you could also use gparted and delete the mbr.

```
# dd if=/dev/null of=/dev/sdX bs=512 count=1
```

---

### Post by yonkiman on 2011-03-28
Actually I ended up simply executing "sudo install-mbr /dev/sda" - all the data on sda1 is still there (partition info was not affected) - but grub is gone, so it will never accidentally boot from that disk if the BIOS boot order gets changed.

Anything I can do to reduce the number of times I have to run "dd" on a working drive is a good thing!  :)

Thanks everyone!

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2011-03-28
> **yonkiman said:**
> Actually I ended up simply executing "sudo install-mbr /dev/sda" - all the data on sda1 is still there (partition info was not affected) - but grub is gone, so it will never accidentally boot from that disk if the BIOS boot order gets changed.

Anything I can do to reduce the number of times I have to run "dd" on a working drive is a good thing!  :)

Thanks everyone!

That's actually good to know, I was surprised when my quick search for deleting information off of the boot sector was only returning commands with dd, that could easily destroy an entire drive!

---

