---
title: "12.04 &quot;Internal error&quot; &quot;stops&quot; network printer."
date: 2012-08-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mumper13 on 2012-08-10
I am more than a bit miffed after a newly-installed 12.04 repeated a fault that occurred on the previous installation only after a long period (months). Requesting a printout of a pdf file called up, after connecting to the Kodak C310 AiO, a legend saying "an internal error in Ubuntu 12.04" had occurred.

The printer was set up under Ubuntu's control, calling up a "recommended" driver, after which it ran the self-test printout fine. Just how serious is this "internal error" and where do I go now?

TIA, mumper13 :(

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-08-10
> **mumper13 said:**
> I am more than a bit miffed after a newly-installed 12.04 repeated a fault that occurred on the previous installation only after a long period (months). Requesting a printout of a pdf file called up, after connecting to the Kodak C310 AiO, a legend saying "an internal error in Ubuntu 12.04" had occurred.

The printer was set up under Ubuntu's control, calling up a "recommended" driver, after which it ran the self-test printout fine. Just how serious is this "internal error" and where do I go now?

TIA, mumper13 :(

The default Ubuntu PDF viewer - "Document Viewer" - barfs on complex PDF files when printing.

Install something like xpdf and you will probably find it will print ok.

---

### Post by mumper13 on 2012-08-10
Well David that was fun. I was warned about NOT deleting Document Viewer, which stayed my hand, but loaded xpdf as suggested. OK, did that. However, upon opening the pdf with xpdf it gave me the same "internal error" in 12.04! Thanks a bunch, and this is urging me look at other distros to avoid this windoze-like unpredictable life.

Is this it? mumper13 :confused:

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-08-10
> **mumper13 said:**
> Well David that was fun. I was warned about NOT deleting Document Viewer, which stayed my hand, but loaded xpdf as suggested. OK, did that. However, upon opening the pdf with xpdf it gave me the same "internal error" in 12.04! Thanks a bunch, and this is urging me look at other distros to avoid this windoze-like unpredictable life.

Is this it? mumper13 :confused:

You may also want to 100% verify that the right printer driver is installed and it has the exact hardware settings correct for your printer - like RAM size.

It Ubuntu thinks that your printer has more RAM than it actually does then a complex print job will overflow the print buffer and things like this will occur.

Using a simpler print driver may also solve the problem.

---

### Post by mumper13 on 2012-08-15
Hi again David - well, it happened again. Having thought, it might be that this particular pdf file has a problem (probably produced under windoze) as I have successfully printed out other pdf files downloaded from the web. Some, quite a bit larger, bit-wise. :confused:

I reported (I think) but then after some repetitions of the warning following a re-start I ticked the box not to warn again. Everything otherwise now seems tickety-boo. Is there some sort of (simple!) test I can carry out to discover if any damage is or not permanent? If I examine the pdf file, what should I look for, if anything (it's attached)?

My thanks for your involvement :)

---

### Post by mumper13 on 2012-08-17
Hi - I've a feeling of being paranoid - but I persisted and had a look in sourceforge, found a driver "c2esp_23-1_i386.deb" recommended - downloaded it. It is different to the driver Ubuntu loaded: KESPC31x.ppd. Started CUPS, "amended printer", then told it where this driver was. It said it could not load it because it didn't recognise the directory.

Where did I go wrong? :confused:
TIA mumper13

---

### Post by mumper13 on 2012-08-20
Hi there - it has finally dawned on me that the real problem is with Document Viewer. It is unable to behave as I have come to expect from using pdf files for a long time. I believe Canonical have another job to do, for this is a let-down within 12.04.
My thanks for other contributions, mumper13 ;)

---

