---
title: "x84 vs x64"
date: 2011-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mkaveli on 2011-08-07
Hello I was wondering, I have a x64 computer. Does it make a difference whether I use the x64 version of ubuntu or the x84 and which should I use.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2011-08-07
No doesn't matter. Try the x64 first, some get a noticeable speed. 
If you have software problems then go x86, sometimes there software glitches in x64 software, depends on what you use, you may not come across the bad 1's.

---

### Post by Mkaveli on 2011-08-07
Thanks for the quick answer. I already using the x64 version of ubuntu but I'n not that happy with it, so I will install the x84 version in about a minute or 2.

Thanks,

Mkaveli

---

### Post by ottosykora on 2011-08-07
depends on many things. 
My situation:

I was running on all my computers standard x86 32bit version of ubuntu or xubuntu. All was ok until I upgraded on the only x64 machine I have to 11.04. From there on, ubuntu refused to work properly, crashed all the time, particularly browsers were not able even to to read this forum properly.
The machine is HP pro book 6550b with all plain intel stuff in it and all did work with 10.10 perfect.

I did then complete reinstall of ubuntu x64 and magic, all works now.
There are some issues, not all software is available for x64 yet, but most important things do work. At least no crashes etc.
Hardware works fine, even my HP printer just connecting with bluetooth was found and automatically installed without any search for drivers etc. within seconds.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-08-07
Why aren't you happy with the 64bit version? What are the problems?
PS By the way, its 32bit vs 64bit. x64 and x84 don't exist.

---

