---
title: "./ does not work?!"
date: 2008-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tictoon on 2008-11-25
I was going to install eeebuntu on my Asus Eee pc(because Xandros make me want to rip my hair out), but then, when i tried to put it on my usb, I get this error:

```
gagan@gagan-desktop:~$ sudo ./isotostick.sh ./eeebuntu_standard_1.0.iso [/dev/sdf]
[sudo] password for gagan:
sudo: ./isotostick.sh: command not found

```

so I replace ./ with sh and it works, kind of:

```
gagan@gagan-desktop:~$ sudo sh isotostick.sh ./eeebuntu_standard_1.0.iso [/dev/sdf]
isotostick.sh [--reset-mbr] [--noverify] <isopath> <usbstick device>
gagan@gagan-desktop:~$

```

so what is wrong, and how do I fix it?

the output isn't doing anything.

---

### Post by EmanresuusernamE on 2008-11-25
Firstly, make sure you in the right directory, and that the file(s) exist, and that you're using the right case. (I've done that many a times myself, so it's first to check).  Next, try:
sudo sh ./isotostick.sh ./eeebuntu_standard_1.0.iso [/dev/sdf]

Also, if that's a normal script, make sure it has the proper header in it, for example:
#!/bin/sh

Personally I haven't seen an **eee**buntu_standard_1.0.iso file anywhere else yet, and since I've already admitted to one mistake, making more is likely to happen.

---

### Post by mkrahmeh on 2008-11-25
check whether isotostick.sh is executable

---

### Post by Tictoon on 2008-11-25
> **EmanresuusernamE said:**
> Firstly, make sure you in the right directory, and that the file(s) exist, and that you're using the right case. (I've done that many a times myself, so it's first to check).  Next, try:
sudo sh ./isotostick.sh ./eeebuntu_standard_1.0.iso [/dev/sdf]

Also, if that's a normal script, make sure it has the proper header in it, for example:
#!/bin/sh

Personally I haven't seen an **eee**buntu_standard_1.0.iso file anywhere else yet, and since I've already admitted to one mistake, making more is likely to happen.


it is executable, doing ...sh ./isotostick.sh... returns the same result as ...sh isotostick.sh..., and [http://www.eeebuntu.org/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=37&Itemid=36]("http://www.eeebuntu.org/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=37&Itemid=36")

---

### Post by Locutus_of_Borg on 2008-11-25
./ indicates the executable is in the same directory you are in

try the full path to isostick.sh

but it looks like the problem is you are putting []'s around the device for some reason

---

### Post by Tictoon on 2008-11-25
yeah, that was the problem, but now I get this: 

```
gagan@gagan-desktop:~$ sudo sh ./isotostick.sh ./eeebuntu_standard_1.0.iso /dev/sdf
Not verifying image...(no checkisomd5 in Ubuntu so skipping)!
/dev/sdf: unknown volume type
USB filesystem must be vfat or ext[23]
Cleaning up to exit...
gagan@gagan-desktop:~$          
```

I checked the USB in gparted, it is ext2, so what now?

---

### Post by Tictoon on 2008-11-25
uhm, fixed it, again, and got another problem:

```
gagan@gagan-desktop:~$ sudo sh ./isotostick.sh ./eeebuntu_standard_1.0.iso /dev/sdf1
Not verifying image...(no checkisomd5 in Ubuntu so skipping)!
trap: 197: SIGINT: bad trap

```

and I have two unmountable devices, one is cdtmp.EK9699 and the other is my usb ("/media/usbdev.Ej9725"?), which I've removed. whats the next step?

---

### Post by Tictoon on 2008-11-25
I found that I need to do ```
 ./isotostick
``` so what now
???

---

### Post by morphodone on 2008-11-25
I used the method here [http://www.ubuntu-eee.com/wiki/index.php5?title=Get_Ubuntu_Eee]("http://www.ubuntu-eee.com/wiki/index.php5?title=Get_Ubuntu_Eee")

It was easy... just make sure you don't have an sd card in at the time.

---

### Post by Tictoon on 2008-11-26
I'm not trying to install ubuntu eee. because previousky it stopped my wifi from working, the camera stopped working abd so did the speakers.

so I decided to go for eeebuntu instead.

---

### Post by Tictoon on 2008-11-26
bump

---

### Post by comradekingu on 2008-12-20
With both the ISO and the script in the home folder it worked for me issuing this command:

```
sudo bash ./isotostick.sh eeebuntu-2.0-base.iso /dev/sdb1
```

replace iso with the name of the disto you have choosen and the /dev-part with your usb device partition.

No promises though, havent looked into it further since that did the trick.

Quickfix found [here]("http://forum.eeebuntu.org/viewtopic.php?f=2&t=804")

Any final solution to this?

---

