---
title: "[SOLVED] Compiz Fusion Trouble: compiz --replace command"
date: 2008-12-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Troop116rules on 2008-12-26
Hey. I've recently introduced my dad to Ubuntu (and I've only started using it about a month ago ;) ) and his desktop is filled with some ok hardware, for a new computer. Problem is, I'm trying to get Compiz Fusion running, (Compiz as well as the icon) and it isn't liking the graphics settings at all.

I followed a tutorial ( [http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-Compiz-Fusion-on-Ubuntu-58113.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Install-Compiz-Fusion-on-Ubuntu-58113.shtml) ), but when I try to replace the window manager ( compiz --replace ) it either states xgl: not present, or it shows a 'glibc detected: double free or corruption' error. I will try and get the specific code for that later, cause every time I run the command, not only does the window manager crash, but I can't even use any text-boxes (search, Terminal, Text-Editor, etc.) This is why I can't copy/paste anything in this post. I have to logout to retry.

Also, when it states xgl: not present, it says after that:
```
Segmentation fault [EndLine]
```
:confused:

Here is my xorg.conf:
```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

```

Let me know asap, please.  We don't have much time left in the day, but I can wait longer if I have too. (Dad's getting antsy  :P)
Thnx in advance

btw, w00tburgers :lolflag: I'm the Nerd Pork Arsonist! Die, Ham-hoggers!!!

---

### Post by deanjm1963 on 2008-12-26
1. You need a video card that supports compiz and the appropriate drivers installed.

2. The command "compiz --replace" is no longer needed in Hardy or Intrepid. Compiz can be activated/set from the "System > Preferences > Appearance" menu.

hope this helps.

---

### Post by Troop116rules on 2008-12-26
> **deanjm1963 said:**
> 1. You need a video card that supports compiz and the appropriate drivers installed.
Sry, I didn't state my hardware info. I have a nVidia 9500GS.

> 2. The command "compiz --replace" is no longer needed in Hardy or Intrepid. Compiz can be activated/set from the "System > Preferences > Appearance" menu.

hope this helps.

I'm not exactly sure where in the Appearance Menu that option would be. It doesn't seem to be there.

---

### Post by deanjm1963 on 2008-12-26
System > Preferences > Appearance > Visual Effects

It should be the last tab.

---

### Post by omskates on 2008-12-27
Appearance --> Visual Effects --> Set to it to "Extra"

Compiz Fusion Should install with its own launcher in Preferences. Systtem -> Preferences -> CompizConfig Settings

---

### Post by omskates on 2008-12-27
Make sure you set desktop effects to none before  *compiz --replace*

---

### Post by Troop116rules on 2008-12-27
Ok. I was setting Visual Effects to Extra first before running "compiz --replace". I tried what you said, but it returned with an error of "No 8-bit pixmap" or something. (Sry, still having trouble with the interface)

But, I do have an update:

Here is the code that I got when I first tried the command:

```
~$ compiz --replace
Checking for Xgl: not present.
Detected PCI ID for VGA:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present.
Checking for non power of two support: present.
Checking for Composite extension: present.
Comparing resolution (1920x1200) to maximum 3D texture size (8192): Passed
Checking for Software Rasterizer: Not present.
Checking for nVidia: present.
Checking for FBConfig: present.
Checking for Xgl: not present.
*** glibc detected *** /usr/bin/compiz.real: corrupted double-linked list: 0x0988d150 ***
======= Backtrace: =========
/lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6[0xb7b8e3f4]
/lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6[0xb7b90223]
/lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(cfree+0x96)[0xb7b90456]
/usr/lib/libGL.so.1[0xb7cf60e1]
```

Sry, took a while.  I had to write it down. Thnx for helping so far.
Btw, when I tried setting visual effects to none, it still didn't find Xgl.

---

### Post by deanjm1963 on 2008-12-27
If you are using Hardy or Intrepid you do not need to issue the command "compiz --replace" as compiz is automatically started when you enable "visual effects".

xgl is no longer needed for compiz if you are running Hardy or Intrepid. You should not add anything extra to your xorg.conf unless you really have to.

Which nVidia driver are you using? Did you install the Ubuntu "restricted drivers" version, the Envy version or the version from the nVidia website?
Did you edit your xorg.conf?
Which version of Ubuntu are you using?
Did you install any third party software to use compiz?

Some more info might help... :)

---

### Post by buzzbo on 2008-12-28
> **Troop116rules said:**
> Sry, I didn't state my hardware info. I have a nVidia 9500GS.

I didn't [find that here]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/169.12/README/appendix-a.html").  Are you sure it's a supported card?
What does...[INDENT]*lspci |grep VGA*
[/INDENT]...give you?

edited to add: [you might find this page useful.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia")

---

### Post by Troop116rules on 2009-01-02
Sry that I haven't replied for a while. U haven't been able to login to the computer that I'm trying to fix. (Parents put the password on their pc. But I do remember that I installed the nVidia Restricted driver 173 and I thought it worked fine. Desktop effects worked nicely.
But, like all compiz fusion installs, it takes work. I installed the Ubuntu 8.10 Desktop edition, And it's dual-booted with Vista.

No, I did not edit the xorg.conf file...yet. And, I did not download and install any programs that use compiz fusion, unless Emerald is counted, but it's really part of fusion, and it's already working fine anyway.

---

### Post by Troop116rules on 2009-01-02
> **buzzbo said:**
> I didn't [find that here]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86/169.12/README/appendix-a.html").  Are you sure it's a supported card?
What does...[INDENT]*lspci |grep VGA*
[/INDENT]...give you?

edited to add: [you might find this page useful.]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia")

I will be able to try that tommorrow, and give feedback.

---

### Post by Forlong on 2009-01-03
Please run Compiz-Check on that machine and post the full output here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=799070](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=799070)

---

### Post by Troop116rules on 2009-01-04
Update: I tried out that command, and this is what I got:
```
05:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation Device 0644 (rev a1)

```

So, it seems that I have the driver working properly, but I'll run Compiz-check and post it at the link given by Forlong.  Thanks for all the help so far.

---

### Post by Troop116rules on 2009-01-04
well, apparently I was being stupid. I was assuming, since the desktop cube was not rotating. that Compiz Fusion was not setup properly. Boy, I was wrong.  I'm used to the "Rotate Cube" setting to be on when I first load CF. and just turn on Desktop cube. Oh well.  I turned that on, and it works fine. Thanks, guys. It's working perfectly now.  lol

... :popcorn:  now i get to sit and watch the fireworks.  XD

HAPPY NEW YEAR!

---

