---
title: "11.10  x64 wnda3100v2 help"
date: 2011-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Papas228 on 2011-12-03
So I've just recently decided to get back into Linux because I just do lol, but I can't seem to get by wireless usb to pick up any signals. I'm currently using x64 and I installed all the necessary tools and what not, but it still can't find any signals. Now I've installed ndisgtk and have the correct drivers from my windows7 x64 to use here but still nothing :(. Also when I check the lsusb in terminal it recognizes my usb so I have no clue what's going on! Hopefully one of you guys has a solution for me thanks.

---

### Post by begoogled on 2012-01-25
I have the same problem. Ubuntu 11.10. x64. Netgear wnda3100v2. 

lsusb can see the device.. but no wireless network connections show up in the networking dropdown menu at the top right of the screen.

I have installed ndiswrapper and the "windows Wireless Drivers" frontend.. On installing the bcmwlhigh5.inf driver it gives me an error dialog box without an error code shown. The "Windows Wireless Drivers" main window then shows that the hardware for bcmwlhigh5.inf is installed.. but still no cigar..

Sooo....

BUMP!

PS. I've contributed back with tutorials on Ubuntuforums about installing RAID after taking several days to figure it out. If anyone knows the solution to this networking hardware problem, it would be very much appreciated and I would be happy to write a quick tutorial on the how-to of this network adapter if I can figure it out or if someone knows how.. Thanks guys

---

