---
title: ".001 file extension"
date: 2008-01-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CraymelCage on 2008-01-25
HI I'm new to the forums and ubuntu. I'm having problems trying to extract .001 files on linux. I dealt with them a lot on windows xp and all I had to do was use 7zip. I installed 7zip on here but all it does is allow me to compress files into 7zip formats. If any one knows how to extract .001-999 files on linux I would appreciate the advice.

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2008-01-25
Did you check the manual?  ```
man 7z
```

---

### Post by qpieus on 2008-01-25
Split files like these are a bit troublesome, but can be handled. See this blog posting for some great info on using rar, par, and split files under linux.

[http://linux-is-sexy.blogspot.com/2005/12/usenet-binaries-with-linux-tutorial.html](http://linux-is-sexy.blogspot.com/2005/12/usenet-binaries-with-linux-tutorial.html)

Go to the section titled "How to join split files .001 .002 .003 .004... back together ?"

When I encounter these files, I follow that guidance. The method described is command line only, so for a new linux user this isn't the easiest thing.

Just above this section are 3 links to graphical interfaces for par2, which may help with your files.

Another option is to run quickpar (for windows) using the program called wine. I've done that before and it worked ok. That may be good for a user coming from windows.

---

### Post by k|d&lt;FuNkY&gt;FrY on 2008-01-26
Just to add a few notes to what the other posters already provided, ensure that you have rar and par2 installed on your machine. 

sudo apt-get install rar par2

If any of your files happen to be damaged, simply run the following command. 

par2repair *filename*.par2 

When you're ready to extract, go ahead and run

rar e *filename*.r001

Regards,

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2008-01-26
Had to change my text here. Sorry about that :-)

I am a bit confused ... those "001 - 999" files ... Are they "rar" format or "7zip"?

---

### Post by CraymelCage on 2008-01-26
.001 files can be opened with 7zip or winrar (easier with 7zip). The only thing I actually know about them is that they are split files. Any way I figured out how I can extract them but I did something different then what you said. I installed wine and installed 7zip for windows in wine and used that to extract the files. Thanks for your input.

---

### Post by k|d&lt;FuNkY&gt;FrY on 2008-01-26
okay, you can certainly go that route, however, there are plenty of utility programs that handle zip. rar, par, par2 files without any problems. If you have multiple files that are zip, you can unzip these files by running this command. 

unzip '*.zip'

Be sure to include the single quote around the file name...Let me know if that works!

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-01-26
You have to put the pieces into one file before extracting it
```
cat file.001.7z file.002.7z file.003.7z > NewFile.7z
```

---

### Post by k|d&lt;FuNkY&gt;FrY on 2008-01-26
> **FuturePilot said:**
> You have to put the pieces into one file before extracting it
```
cat file.001.7z file.002.7z file.003.7z > NewFile.7z
```

Interesting... I've never had to do that before... Whether a .rar file or .zip file, I've always been able to simply run single extraction commands in order to yield what's required.

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-01-27
I know at least with .rar all you have to do is right click on the first one and extract it. The rest will automatically follow. However 7z doesn't do that.

---

