---
title: "9.04 64-bit hard lock at 7am"
date: 2010-03-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BatteryKing on 2010-03-14
Every once in a while I have noticed in the the morning that the computer is hard locked, meaning what ever was on the screen is still there (or just blank for screen saver), the machine is inaccessible over the network, and there is no kernel panic message in the logs.

This last time around my brother was logged in and he had the screen saver turned off, so I could see the exact time the clock stopped updating, and it read 7:00am.  The var/log/messages log lists its last mark at 6:59:29.

A thought came to my mind the other month to check power stability because both my router and my network switch had a history of doing odd things even though I was using a line conditioner.  After replacing the line conditioner with an APC Back-UPS XS 1500, both the network switch and the router have been perfectly behaved, but after a few weeks of continuous up time my Ubuntu system hard locked again and I don't know why.

Here are some hardware details:
m/b: Gigabyte GA-EX58-UD5
CPU: Intel 940
RAM: 12 GB @ 1066 MHz actual (1333 MHz rated, but can't do with banks fully populated.)
RAID: 3ware 9650 SATA-II 8-port w/ battery backup
Video: PNY nVidia 260 GTX core 216 based card with 896 MBs RAM.
P/S: Seasonic S12 650W (80Plus certified)

---

### Post by impert on 2010-03-14
Odd. If you leave the machine on all the time doing a file system check might help. (e2fsck). Read the man page first for the options. 
You have a huge amount of RAM.
You could always try dual-booting with another Linux system, even another Ubuntu, to see  if you get the same  thing happening.

---

### Post by BatteryKing on 2010-03-14
Actually the system is still on Rieserfs.  I have been meaning to switch over to ext4, but just need to find space elsewhere to stick everything.

After this last lock up I ran fsck on all of the drives (rieser mode of course) and although it had a lot of replaying to do, no inconsistencies were found.

---

