---
title: ".svg requirements for the GNOME bar?"
date: 2009-08-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DGeeez on 2009-08-02
I decided to put all my frequent activity links which I had created on my desktop to the GNOME bar (where they would never be covered by windows). Didn't think it would be that complicated, considering how easy it was to install icon links for the same functions on my desktop, even with my own icons which I had tweaked in GIMP. But the GNOME bar only seems to handle icons of type .svg, and there weren't any suitable for Downloads, Pictures, etc.

I found out that Inkscape is used for converting .png to .svg (why can't GIMP do that), and it SORT OF worked. I opened my green (Download) lightning-bolt icon from where I had it stored, and saved it as type .svg in the same folder. I was able to move it to /usr/share/icons/hicolor/scalable/apps, but something wasn't quite right - the thumbnail (or whatever we call it in Linux) displayed as blank in both folder windows. Just a blank sheet picture entry, with the green bolt missing! Well, I had transparencied the background in GIMP to make it look sort of professional, but there were no error messages from Inkscape. Since Inksape didn't complain, I decided to open my GNOME-bar Downloads widget Properties box, and change the default orange Nautilus icon to my green bolt, even though it didn't display correctly in any Nautilus windows. Surprisingly, it displays perfectly! 

Although it displays fine where I want it too, I also sort of want it display properly in my file browser windows too, and am wondering what's wrong there. I know absolutely nothing about .svg files, or why they are required by the GNOME-bar, and the only factors I can guess on are the GIMP to Inkscape transition, the size in bits and in pixels. Can anyone tell me what's important in creating icons for the GNOME-bar, so that they will display properly in Nautilus too?

Thanks.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-08-02
> **DGeeez said:**
> But the GNOME bar only seems to handle icons of type .svg,

This comes up from time to time. You can use any image file for the panel launchers, not just SVGs (it normally comes up when people are creating launchers for the menu). For some reason previews of SVGs show up even when other formats don't. It would be clearer what you have to do if the SVGs didn't show up either. You select the folder that you want to use and then select Open. All the images that are in that folder will then be displayed in the previous window.

For reference, [SVG]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics")s are really a text format.

---

### Post by DGeeez on 2009-08-03
> **CatKiller said:**
> This comes up from time to time. You can use any image file for the panel launchers, not just SVGs (it normally comes up when people are creating launchers for the menu). For some reason previews of SVGs show up even when other formats don't. It would be clearer what you have to do if the SVGs didn't show up either. You select the folder that you want to use and then select Open. All the images that are in that folder will then be displayed in the previous window.

For reference, [SVG]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scalable_Vector_Graphics")s are really a text format.

Thanks, guess I should have just asked how, so many hours ago - the damned gnome has had it's fun with me again, and is laughing in my ear! There it was, hidden in plain sight - not quite like the hidden switches, which control the secret revolving wall in Bruce Wayne's library, but it's one of those buttons which mostly doesn't need to be used, doesn't get used much, but in this case works like a charm when used now. I've got my icons up where I can get to them now (and admire them), and it's only looking better.

---

