---
title: "8.10...home page won't stay?"
date: 2008-11-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Len Tyree on 2008-11-28
received updates from linux yesterday and now strange things are happening.

when i click on firefox, i get the url 'chome://ubufox/content/startpage.html'.
so go to edit > preferences to get back to my home page.  it shows either the above url or 'http://start.ubuntu.com/8.10/'.  this url also brings up a google window, which i don;t need there.  (if i want to google, i will pull it up myself).
so i type in my home page, 'edition.cnn.com' and press the restore to default button.  so up comes the 2nd url again.  the home page url is gone.
so to get to my home page, i have to go back to the firefox beginning and type it in.

so what is going on?  and is there anyway i can my home page to stay in the 'home page area??

a little help please.  thank you, len tyree.
p.s. i am posing the same question to liuxquestions.

---

### Post by Rainstride on 2008-11-28
i get the same, i ether get the search page or the first time page. im not sure what causes it to change though. iv been getting it since alpha.

---

### Post by flanagan on 2008-11-28
> **Len Tyree said:**
> 
so i type in my home page, 'edition.cnn.com' and press the restore to default button.  so up comes the 2nd url again.  the home page url is gone.

When you clicked the "restore to default button", Firefox dutifully changed your home page back to the default (the page you are seeing and do not want).

Just navigate to edition.cnn.com and make sure it is the only tab you have open. Then go into Edit > Preferences and click on Use Current Page in the Main tab.

If you want multiple home pages, you can navigate to them all in separate tabs and click Use Current Pages (plural).

---

### Post by Elfy on 2008-11-28
> press the restore to default button.If you do that then you will always get the default page - put in the page you want to be home page and close the preferences

---

### Post by ideewoww on 2008-11-28
[img]http://www.ideewomen.com/cn/uploads/200811111137220.jpg[/img]Women's beauty sourses from heart, just like the IDee jewelry reveals unique beauty carelessly, palpitates the will of the people easily. The IDee accessories are all designed uniquely, both elegant and fashion. Especially the series of mounting is matched by luxurious swarovski quartz, pearl, agate and so on, sparkles the eye-catching ray. The intoxicant appearance will let you unfold the graceful makings all the time. How can&#8217;t you be moved?  Wearing the charming IDee jewelry, your mood will be bright everyday. The IDee jewelry is worth possessing!

---

