---
title: "32 or 64?"
date: 2009-08-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Pensfan on 2009-08-21
Hello all. Serious newb here so bear with me :)  Been dying to try Ubuntu but was waiting until I could get an external bootable HD since I'm pretty much stuck with Windows Vista 64 as my primary OS. 2nd HD didn't happen but I found Sun's VirtualBox VM and decided I'd give that a try, installing Ubuntu under a VM.

Anyway, I DLd Ubuntu 64bit version yesterday along with VirtualBox. Got VM set up but when I choose to install the 64 bit version I
a) (within VirtualBox) get an error telling me something about VTx/AMD 64bit needs to be turned on in BIOS
b) if I set up VirtualBox to not expect the 64bit version the Ubuntu install starts but then I get an error about not having 64bit capable hardware.

I understand the first is a VirtualBox problem probably so I don't expect anything on that but, the 2nd seems to be the Ubuntu installer telling me my hardware doesn't support 64bit. As I said I'm pretty much a newb on a lot of this stuff but, since I'm running Vista 64 doesn't that mean my hardware does support 64bit? I checked my BIOS and the Hardware Virtualization is enabled (again a VirtualBox thing not Ubuntu) and am running a Q6600 Intel Processor if that all helps. Just in case I'm going ahead and DLing the Ubuntu 32bit version but I was hoping the 64 would work.

Thx in advance for any guidance, comments, etc.

---

### Post by Twittery on 2009-08-21
Can you please make sure that you are using 64 bit processor . As you are using Vista 


[LIST=1]
[*]Click  **Start**and  type system  in the **Start Search** box, and then click **system** in the **Programs** list.
[*]The operating system is displayed as follows:
[LIST]
[*]For a 64-bit version operating system: **64-bit Operating System** appears for the **System type** under **System**.
[*]For a 32-bit version operating system: **32-bit Operating System** appears for the **System type** under **System**.
[/LIST]
[/LIST]

If you still get the architecture error go with the 32 bit Download

---

### Post by Twittery on 2009-08-21
And the error you got with VirtualBox may/probably have to do something with this

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-08-21
> **Twittery said:**
> Can you please make sure that you are using 64 bit processor .

Are you kidding ? He is using an Q6600...

Is "Enable VT-x/AMD-V" checked in the settings for the VM, under system > acceleration.

---

### Post by Twittery on 2009-08-21
> **howefield said:**
> Are you kidding ? He is using an Q6600...

Is "Enable VT-x/AMD-V" checked in the settings for the VM, under system > acceleration.

Sorry didn't read that one . :rolleyes:

---

### Post by insane_alien on 2009-08-21
the problem seems to be that he doesn't have VT-x enabled in his BIOS so it doesn't work.

what he needs to do is go into his bios and change the option to enable VT-x function on his cpu.

---

### Post by Pensfan on 2009-08-21
When I set up VirtualBox I choose Ubuntu & 64bit. When I went into Settings-System, I choose 2 processors, and the VTx thing was checked (actually can't uncheck it if you have >1 processor chosen), I also tried with that and the NAE thing checked. When I started the VM is when I got the VirtualBox Error about VTx not being available. Additionally, I turned off the 64bit option for Ubuntu and Ubuntu install actually starts, that's when I get the Ubuntu error about not having 64bit capability.

I then rebooted Vista, went into BIOS, under Processor section, and there was an option to Enable/Disable Hardware Virtualization that was already Enabled. I figured that was the right setting and it was set correctly /shrug. Maybe somewhere else in BIOS I'm missing??

Thx for replies.

---

