---
title: ".wav files"
date: 2008-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bluefire27 on 2008-10-18
I try playing .wav files on Rhythmbox Music Player and no sound comes out. I have sound configured and maxed out, but I'm simply not receiving it. Any clues or ideas? I'm new to Ubuntu, so if someone can please take me step through step I'd appreciate it greatly.

Thanks.

(How to play .wav files in Ubuntu)

---

### Post by Altay_H on 2008-10-18
Do you have any sound at all? If you open firefox and try to watch a youtube video, for example, can you hear it?

Try going to System > Preferences > Sound, and clicking "Test" for Music and Movies Sound playback. If you don't hear anything, try selection a different option from the dropdown list and clicking "Test" again. I think ALSA works the best, but I forget.


If you do have sound in other programs (like firefox), try playing the .wav file in a different media player to see if it's just an issue with Rhythmbox. You should have Totem (called "Media Player" under Applications > Sound & Video) installed already unless you removed it. Try playing the .wav file with that program. If it works, then the problem must involve Rhythmbox.

If you can't play the .wav files with Totem (Media Player) either, try playing them with VLC. Ubuntu doesn't come with VLC preinstalled, so you'll have install it yourself one of two ways.

1) You can go to Applications > Accessories > Terminal. When it comes up, enter the following command:
```
sudo apt-get install vlc
```
You'll be asked for the root password, which you should know, then VLC will be installed. It might ask you to confirm, but it should be fairly straightforward.

2) If you'd rather not have to enter text-based commands, you can install it the more user-friendly way. Go to System > Administration > Synaptic Package Manager. You'll be promted to enter the root password when start it up. Click "Search" and enter "VLC". It will probably come up with a whole bunch of packages, but only one of them will be named "vlc". Click the box next to it, confirm, and apply. Then it will be installed.

Once you have VLC, you can find it in Applications > Sound & Video > VLC media player. The .wav file will almost definitely play in VLC. Let me know which of these work so that we can try to figure out exactly where the problem is.

---

### Post by bluefire27 on 2008-10-18
Yes, when I open up a YouTube video I actually do hear it. The device I'm using is: Intel 82801DB-ICH4 (Alsa mixer). I try testing it and as a result I get no sound. I open the volume control and max out everything just in case but still no luck. The problem is I try opening .wav files with every single program, not just Rhythmbox... (including Media Player, VLC, etc...) 

I also open up Steam games (Counter Strike: Source to be exact) and I hear perfectly. I'd wish to know if it's simply a defect in the file itself. 

Thank you so much.

---

### Post by Altay_H on 2008-10-19
> **bluefire27 said:**
> I'd wish to know if it's simply a defect in the file itself.
That should quite easy to test. You could either try playing a different wav file with VLC/Totem/Rhythmbox or you could try playing that wav file on a different computer. If playing a different wav file on your computer works and/or playing that wav file doesn't work on another computer, it must be the file.

Otherwise, I don't know what to suggest. It's really odd that only wav files would fail to play.

---

### Post by Altay_H on 2008-10-19
Oops. Sorry about the double-post. Is there any way to have this post deleted?

---

### Post by Riffer on 2008-10-19
Do sound files in other formats play (mp3's, ogg, etc)?  Have you got codecs installed?

If you do sorry your post isn't clear on that.

---

