---
title: "s.m.a.r.t. status reliable?"
date: 2011-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DanneStrat on 2011-01-28
Hi!

I just got a laptop from a friend. It had xp on the entire drive, but I put ubuntu on there instead.

The installation went well, but when I booted into ubuntu and logged in, I got a warning from

s.m.a.r.t. that I had a failing harddrive. The laptop has only been used for short periods of time

and therefore I can't find the smart status to be reasonable. I posted some screenshots

below. I've seen others that get the "disk failure is imminent" on brand new drives in ubuntu 10.04.

How do I find out if the smart status is correct?

Thanks.

---

### Post by DanneStrat on 2011-01-28
I forgot to mention that I did a hard drive self-test from bios and it passed without errors.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2011-01-28
I do seem to remember that there was a problem with SMART false positives in the 9.10 version of Disk Utility but I thought that had been ironed out by 10.04. But you may be right and I've missed the reports. You could download the ISO for Maverick/10.10, run it live on the laptop and see what that version Disk Utility makes of it all.

As far as new or little-used drives failing, unfortunately that's a distinct possibility. I can't give you a link atm but I remember a report of a large study that Google did of their experience of drive failure. They found that there were a significant number of drives failing very early on in their usage lives.

---

### Post by DanneStrat on 2011-01-28
> **coffeecat said:**
> I do seem to remember that there was a problem with SMART false positives in the 9.10 version of Disk Utility but I thought that had been ironed out by 10.04. But you may be right and I've missed the reports. You could download the ISO for Maverick/10.10, run it live on the laptop and see what that version Disk Utility makes of it all.

As far as new or little-used drives failing, unfortunately that's a distinct possibility. I can't give you a link atm but I remember a report of a large study that Google did of their experience of drive failure. They found that there were a significant number of drives failing very early on in their usage lives.

I'll try maverick live cd. Thanks for the tip!

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-01-28
Disk manufacturers often have disk utilities that report on SMART status. It looks like yours is a Seagate model, so check their Web site. I don't know offhand if they've got anything that'll work from a self-booting CD, which is presumably what you'd need since you've wiped Windows from the disk, but it's worth a check.

Another option is to run GSmartControl (use apt-get or Synaptic to search for and install it). I'm not sure what caused the false positives to which coffeecat refers, but if it was in Disk Utility rather than the kernel or some other common tool, using another Linux SMART utility might be helpful.

Since you say that XP was on the computer, I'm guessing it's several years old. If so, the drive might be failing just from age, even if it wasn't being used much. Also, disks can fail because of physical trauma -- a big jolt to the drive, particularly when it was in use, can cause damage. In a laptop, such a jolt is a serious danger. For all these reasons, it's entirely believable that the drive may be failing, even if it's not been used much.

---

### Post by Irony on 2011-01-28
SMART worked for me. I bought a new Seagate Barracuda drive and after a month noticed Ubuntu was erratic. It got worse over the months until I could only access it sporadically. I kept thinking it was Ubuntu as the drive was new.

It then occurred to me to check its SMART status with Disk Utility which reported a bunch of disk errors. I wiped the disk clean and Disk Utility reported the errors as fixed but errors quickly built up again... disk cleaning had simply built the filesystem around the old errors so Disk Utility showed it as clean but quickly reported new errors as the disk was used.

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2011-01-28
It's probably worth mentioning that there does exist defective hardware from a factory. I don't know of any manufacturing plant that has 100% of the items off the line working. Just because something is new doesn't mean it isn't broke

---

### Post by DanneStrat on 2011-01-28
> **srs5694 said:**
> 
Since you say that XP was on the computer, I'm guessing it's several years old. If so, the drive might be failing just from age, even if it wasn't being used much. Also, disks can fail because of physical trauma -- a big jolt to the drive, particularly when it was in use, can cause damage. In a laptop, such a jolt is a serious danger. For all these reasons, it's entirely believable that the drive may be failing, even if it's not been used much.

Yes, you're right. It is about 3-4 years old. 

I'm thankful for your help. I've decided to buy a new drive.

---

