---
title: "14.04 no powerbtn action with acpid anymore?"
date: 2014-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by waufrepi on 2014-04-21
Hello,
    I have a modified script /etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh that used to run when /etc/acpi/events/powerbtn (when my machine's power button is pressed). This no longer works for me so I'm assuming that in 14.04 acpid is no longer handling the power button press event. Does anyone know how I can get my script to run again. 
(btw, the script runs a set of custom dialogs that give the user various of button options via gxmessage). thanks

---

### Post by Regen on 2014-05-04
I have a similar problem and I have found the fix. Both /etc/acpi/events/powerbtn and logind are responding to the press of the power button. You can prove this by adding something like the below to your custom /etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh
```
echo testing >> /var/log/powerbtn.log
```
and then press the power button. You computer will shut down, but when you power it on again and check /var/log/powerbtn.log it will contain "testing", proving that /etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh is executing but logind is also also issuing a poweroff. This will only work if your custom /etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh does not contain the new code that causes it to exit if logind is running.

```

# If logind is running, it already handles power button presses; desktop
# environments put inhibitors to logind if they want to handle the key
# themselves.
if pidof systemd-logind >/dev/null; then
    exit 0
fi

```

The fix is to stop logind from responding to the press of the power button. Edit /etc/systemd/logind.conf and change
```
#HandlePowerKey=poweroff
```
to
```
HandlePowerKey=ignore
```

then
```
sudo service systemd-logind restart
```

After this change, your custom /etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh should run as expected.

References:
[LIST]
[*][https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/acpid/+changelog](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/trusty/+source/acpid/+changelog) 
[/LIST]
[INDENT]acpid (1:2.0.21-1ubuntu2) trusty; urgency=medium

  * ./debian/powerbtn.sh: Don't do anything if logind is running, as that
    already handles power button presses. This fixes unconditional shutdowns
    if a desktop environment wants to handle the power key by itself (and
    inhibits logind). (LP: #1201180)
 -- Martin Pitt <martin.pitt@ubuntu.com>   Thu, 03 Apr 2014 14:53:35 +0100

[/INDENT]

[LIST]
[*][https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd-shim/+bug/1201180](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd-shim/+bug/1201180) 
[/LIST]
[INDENT]----------------------------------------
Martin Pitt (pitti) wrote on 2013-10-24:  #9  

FTR, bug 1222021 is the XFCE side of this.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1222021](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1222021)
----------------------------------------
Martin Pitt (pitti) wrote on 2014-04-03: Re: Pressing power button turns off the PC ignoring the presence of another session manager  #28  

I think we should completely disable powerbtn.sh if logind is running; that's much safer than trying to cover all session managers, and much more correct too as logind itself handles the power button unless a session manager inhibits it.
Changed in acpid (Ubuntu):  
assignee:  nobody --> Martin Pitt (pitti)  
summary:  - Pressing power button turns off the PC ignoring the presence of another
- session manager
+ powerbtn.sh conflicts with logind  
Changed in acpid (Ubuntu):  
milestone:  none --> ubuntu-14.04 
----------------------------------------

[/INDENT]

[LIST]
[*][https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1222021](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1222021) 
[/LIST]
[INDENT]WORKAROUND: This can be adjusted in /etc/systemd/logind.conf. Just set HandleLidSwitch and other the events you want handled by systemd to "ignore" - you have to delete # in the beginning of the respective lines -, save, close the file, and restart.
----------------------------------------
Alf Haakon Lund (alf-c) wrote on 2013-12-23:  #15  

Changing #HandlePowerKey=poweroff to
    HandlePowerKey=ignore
works.
----------------------------------------

[/INDENT]

---

