---
title: "14.04 not shutting down?"
date: 2015-08-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roasted on 2015-08-22
Hi friends. I've used 14.04 for quite some time without issue. Lately I've noticed that my laptop is not shutting down when I select shut down from the gear menu. This seems to become more apparent the longer the computer runs. If I just hop on for a short time and shut down, no big deal. If it runs longer and I shut down, the interface just stays up and fully working.

Then I noticed my work laptop, totally different hardware, also experiencing the same thing.

Then last night I left my desktop running on accident (as I typically shut it off) and came downstairs to turn it off this morning. I selected shutdown and... nothing happened. Here I am currently running from an instance of Ubuntu 14.04.3, just like the two laptops (Toshiba + Dell) despite having selected shut down minutes ago.

If I go to the gear and select shut down again, nothing whatsoever happens. This forces me to use terminal to shut down.

Has anybody else seen this?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-08-22
the easiest way to know whats happening, hit "Esc' or 'ctrl+Esc' to switch to verbose mode: the system is probably waiting for an event that never come. This can be done permanently by removing 'quiey splash' from /etc/default/grub, then update-grub.

if that system has not been installed from scratch recently, but got lot of dist-upgrade, then think to clean it: clean/autoclean/autoremove/gtkorphan/bleachbit (as root, but check options carefully)

---

### Post by Roasted on 2015-08-22
Thanks. These were all originally fresh installs of 14.04, just updated throughout the cycle so far. Haven't had any issues like this before but it seems to just keep happening with more of my systems (up to 3 now, only have 1 more left!). I tried hitting CTRL ESC but nothing happens, so I'm not sure exactly what to do to check the verbose mode when this takes place. Just keep in mind, when I select shut down and I say nothing happens, I mean *nothing* happens. Everything stays running and I continue to see my workspace. Everything functions as normal. It's not like when you get to a splash screen where you can toggle F12 to see what sort of processing steps are happening in the background.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2015-08-22
Do you use steam (gaming client)? I find when steam is running my computer doesn't shut down correctly either, I have to specifically quit steam first then shutdown. If not, this behaviour could be caused by some other rogue software, try systematically closing software before attempting a shutdown and see if this helps.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2015-08-23
I think I can blame Telegram in this case. I got to thinking about what applications might be hanging things up. Then it dawned on me I only started using Telegram on my work laptop within the last two days, yet the shutdown issues only surfaced in the last two days. I fired up my desktop and let it idle for about 2 hours. It was running about 5-6 of my common applications, excluding Telegram. It shut down fine. I fired it back up and opened the same applications but this time including Telegram and again let it idle. A few hours later I went to shut it down... nothing. Even if I close Telegram then try shutting down a second time following that failure, no dice. 

So.. time to file a bug. :)

---

### Post by Roasted on 2015-08-25
So a few days have passed of me using these systems again. It's clear, if I kill Telegram *first* and then shut down, no issues. If I try to shut down first, no dice. It just hangs. Is anybody else out there using Telegram also seeing this issue? I submitted this info to Telegram but haven't heard back quite yet.

---

### Post by mardy3 on 2015-09-10
I can confirm the issue, my computer also doesn't shut down if Telegram is running. Did you file a bug about it?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2015-09-10
I did not file a bug about it, but mostly because I found one just before I was going to. ;)

[https://github.com/telegramdesktop/tdesktop/issues/633](https://github.com/telegramdesktop/tdesktop/issues/633)

---

