---
title: "bad interpreter, can't find perl in synaptic either"
date: 2010-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by L a r r y on 2010-10-31
I downloaded a Perl script from off a page on the Internet, and tried to run it.  It displayed its source in the web browser.

First of all, I am in the cg-bin containing my cgi file and the file permissions are set to 755.

I open the Terminal in this folder and run ls, which lists my file called hello.cgi; I run hello.cgi, and get a not found error, and run ./hello.cgi and get source code less comments:

```
me@fast:~/Files/Website/perl-dropdown/cgi-bin$ ls
hello.cgi  redir.cgi
me@fast:~/Files/Website/perl-dropdown/cgi-bin$ hello.cgi
hello.cgi: command not found
me@fast:~/Files/Website/perl-dropdown/cgi-bin$ ./hello.cgi
Content-type: text/html

<html><head><title>Hello World!! </title></head>
<body><h1>Hello world</h1></body></html>
me@fast:~/Files/Website/perl-dropdown/cgi-bin$ 

```
I just put this hello script up on the Internet and it does work, so I need to debug my computer.

Next I open my Synaptic and search for perl, so I can reinstall it.  I find nothing.

I navigate to /usr/bin and eventually find perl and perl5.xx as well.

So what do I need to do next?  Running 10.04 Ubuntu.

---

### Post by L a r r y on 2010-11-05
Bump> **L a r r y said:**
> I downloaded a Perl script from off a page on the Internet, and tried to run it.  It displayed its source in the web browser.

First of all, I am in the cg-bin containing my cgi file and the file permissions are set to 755.

I open the Terminal in this folder and run ls, which lists my file called hello.cgi; I run hello.cgi, and get a not found error, and run ./hello.cgi and get source code less comments:

```
me@fast:~/Files/Website/perl-dropdown/cgi-bin$ ls
hello.cgi  redir.cgi
me@fast:~/Files/Website/perl-dropdown/cgi-bin$ hello.cgi
hello.cgi: command not found
me@fast:~/Files/Website/perl-dropdown/cgi-bin$ ./hello.cgi
Content-type: text/html

<html><head><title>Hello World!! </title></head>
<body><h1>Hello world</h1></body></html>
me@fast:~/Files/Website/perl-dropdown/cgi-bin$ 

```
I just put this hello script up on the Internet and it does work, so I need to debug my computer.

Next I open my Synaptic and search for perl, so I can reinstall it.  I find nothing.

I navigate to /usr/bin and eventually find perl and perl5.xx as well.

So what do I need to do next?  Running 10.04 Ubuntu.

---

### Post by gmargo on 2010-11-05
It has nothing to do with your **perl** installation so don't mess with that. 

How did you run the script with the web browser?  Have you configured a web server or are you just opening the file?

---

### Post by L a r r y on 2010-11-08
> **gmargo said:**
> It has nothing to do with your **perl** installation so don't mess with that. 

How did you run the script with the web browser?  Have you configured a web server or are you just opening the file?

I am opening the file directly from the Desktop.  Today, before I saw your response, I did an apt-get install perl, which indicated Perl was already installed, latest version already and no changes to the system occurred.

I opened a Perl cgi script from the Terminal and it displayed the HTML output source code generated by the running program, but when I opened it in Firefox it displayed the file's source code as it would in a text editor.  The executable flag is set in permissions.

I do have a server installed, and probably should place the cgi in its directory and let the server serve it, then it would be just like the server on the Internet.

I find interesting that I have to run the Perl script from the Terminal, opened in the script's directory, by specifying ./filename.cgi.  I can't find it if I just run filename.cgi.  ./filename.cgi tells the Terminal to look in the current directory for it.

That is one difference between Linux and my past experience with MS-DOS and Windows, where filename.ext will first look in the current directory then in the path set in the environment.

---

### Post by gmargo on 2010-11-08
> **L a r r y said:**
> I am opening the file directly from the Desktop.  .... 

I do have a server installed, and probably should place the cgi in its directory and let the server serve it, then it would be just like the server on the Internet.
Using a server is necessary.  The server executes the CGI script, not the browser.

> 
I find interesting that I have to run the Perl script from the Terminal, opened in the script's directory, by specifying ./filename.cgi.  I can't find it if I just run filename.cgi.  ./filename.cgi tells the Terminal to look in the current directory for it.Directories are searched according to the $PATH variable.  It is typical for normal users to included the current directory (".") at the end of their $PATH.  And it is typical for the root user to not included it.

---

### Post by L a r r y on 2011-11-12
> **gmargo said:**
> Using a server is necessary.  The server executes the CGI script, not the browser.

Directories are searched according to the $PATH variable.  It is typical for normal users to included the current directory (".") at the end of their $PATH.  And it is typical for the root user to not included it.

Thank you for the input.  I was off the mark with this thread at the time I started it!

I CAN run a Perl script in the command line Terminal, and it calculates the math, and performs whatever else the script is written to do, and sends its output to the screen. 

I CAN run a Perl script in a Web server, and it will do the same thing, and send any output to the Web browser.  Here a header must be included before any other output is sent to the browser. 

I can open a Perl script in a text editor to read its source code, and use a browser directly to display its source code, with no server involved.

Occasionally I find that my browser wants to download and save a text file of the same name as the Perl script resulting from the executed script -- it seems like I am downloading the script source, but upon examination of what was downloaded, it is the printed output of the executed script that should have been displayed in the browser instead.  That would be the fault of improper headers sent by the server most likely.

Mark this as SOLVED.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-11-12
Closed, please don't bump old threads.

---

