---
title: "Caps Locks and Carriage Returns"
date: 2009-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by grbrewer on 2009-11-17
For some reason, every time I press the Caps Lock key, a carriage return is generated. (This happens in a Terminal Window as well as the text editor etc.)
 
I've tried System->Preferences->Keyboard (and Keyboard ShortCuts), and setting everything to defaults, but nothing seems to work.
 
Does anyone know a quick way of fixing this? (My system is Hardy Heron)

---

### Post by prem1er on 2009-11-17
Post the results of your xorg.conf.

---

### Post by grbrewer on 2009-11-17
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
    Driver        "nvidia"
    Option        "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"

---

### Post by prem1er on 2009-11-17
FYI when you post code or configuration files on these forums it is always helpful to place them within 'code' or 'quote' tags.  As for your problem, 

1. Is this a newly installed system? Or has this problem just started to appear?

2. It seems you are using the GB or UK keyboard layout. Is this a mistake or is that the intended layout?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-11-17
> **prem1er said:**
> FYI when you post code or configuration files on these forums it is always helpful to place them within 'code' or 'quote' tags.........

Never ever put code inside 'quote' tags as it will disappear when multiple replies occur. Code tags are for code and data, that is why there is a code tag.

---

