---
title: "Firefox - how to print pdf files"
date: 2007-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by satimis on 2007-10-17
Hi folks,


Ubuntu 7.04 server amd64
Fluxbox desktop
Firefox - 2.0.0.6
cups-pdf - 2.4.2


I have cups-pdf installed and it is now running;

$ sudo /etc/init.d/cupsys status```

Password:
Status of Common Unix Printing System: cupsd is running.
```

$ ls -l /usr/lib/cups/backend/cups-pdf ```

-rwsr-xr-x 1 root lp 25664 2007-03-02 23:58 /usr/lib/cups/backend/cups-pdf

```

But I can't find its printer on Firefox;

File -> Print -> Printer Name
Only "PostScript/default" is there.


Please help.  TIA


B.R.
satimis

---

### Post by jayaramk on 2007-10-18
is the printer made the default printer???

---

### Post by satimis on 2007-10-18
> **jayaramk said:**
> is the printer made the default printer???
I haven't further edited it after installation.  Since this is a server no printer has been installed.

satimis

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2007-10-18
You need to install a printer, as in System ->Administration ->Printing. For the driver, choose a postscript printer - the generic one will do. I'm using one of the HP colour laserjet drivers.

Once you've done this, it will show up in the FF print menu, not as pdf printer, but as the name of the driver you used, e.g. CUPS/color laserjet xxxx

When you use it for the first time, it will create a directory PDF in your home directory. All documents generated by the pdf printer automatically end up in there.

HTH

Irihapeti

---

### Post by satimis on 2007-10-18
> **Irihapeti said:**
> You need to install a printer, as in System ->Administration ->Printing. For the driver, choose a postscript printer - the generic one will do. I'm using one of the HP colour laserjet drivers.

Once you've done this, it will show up in the FF print menu, not as pdf printer, but as the name of the driver you used, e.g. CUPS/color laserjet xxxx

When you use it for the first time, it will create a directory PDF in your home directory. All documents generated by the pdf printer automatically end up in there.

Hi Irihapeti,


Fluxbox, a lightweight desktop, is running on this server.  I don't have System ->Administration ->Printing on its menu.

A further thought I don't have cups installed because this is a server.  I won't print document on this box.  What I need is to print webpage doc as .pdf file.  Do I need install cups?  If YES, is there an alternative to meet my need?  Is there addon on Firefox to print .pdf ?  TIA


B.R.
satimis

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2007-10-18
Yes, cups-pdf needs cups. And I don't know what you could run on a server instead. Another possibility might be to use a postscript to pdf converter. I seem to remember that there was a thread on this topic, but I don't have a bookmark of it. When it comes to servers, I'm out of my depth - hopefully someone else knows more about this.

Sorry I can't be more helpful.

Irihapeti

---

### Post by satimis on 2007-10-18
Hi Irihapeti,


Problem solved.  Cups is not necessary.  Steps performed as follows;


On console

$ sudo apt-get install hal-cups-utils
$ sudo apt-get install cupsys-bsd

$ sudo system-config-printer```

Printer Name	PDF_Printer -> Forward
Selection
Virtual Printer		Enter Device URI cups-pdf:/ -> Forward
Makes	Generic -> Forward
Models	postscript color printer rev4
Driver	cups-pdf/PostscriptColo.ppd -> Forward
-> Apply

```

That is all.

To print webpage on Firefox;

File -> Print -> Printer Name: CUP/cups-pdf -> Print

"PDF" directory created automatically.  The .pdf file printed is kept on this directory.


Anyway thanks for you assistance.


B.R.
satimis

---

