---
title: "14.04 LTS Firefox Flash plugin 24.0.0.186 INVALID not loading"
date: 2016-12-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dalew2 on 2016-12-20
[Solved] Apparmor was the main problem. See my third post below for details.

I am running Ubuntu (Xfce) 14.04.5 LTS with the latest updates, but I cannot seem to get the latest Flash plugin working in Firefox 50.1.0 64 bit. Flash was working without issue until the last week or two. Yesterday I noticed I couldn't access a site that uses Flash and found that Flash was no longer installed. I assume it was uninstalled by a regular Ubuntu software update. Looking to re-install Flash, I found version 24.0.0.186 was available.

I have tried every method I can find, but Firefox always refuses to load the plugin. It does not show up in about:plugins and pluginreg.dat lists it under the INVALID section.

Firefox pluginreg.dat shows:

[INVALID]
/usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so:$
1481413522000:$

I there any way to find a more detailed description or reason for why the plugin ends up as "INVALID" in the Firefox pluginreg.dat? Does that happen if an error occurs when Firefox attempts to load the plugin or is INVALID status based on a Blocklist or Blacklist?

The install does create a working Adobe Flash Player Preferences control in my Settings, but that's the only thing that works.


I have tried various installation methods:

Synaptic Package Manger:
flash-plugin installer 24.0.0.186ubuntu0.14.04.1
adobe-flashplugin 1:20161213-0ubuntu0.14.04.1

Ubuntu Software Center

[https://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/](https://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/)
[http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer.html](http://labs.adobe.com/downloads/flashplayer.html) (Beta 24, Dec 14)

apt:adobe-flashplugin
apt:adobe-flashplugin?channel=$distro-partner

sudo apt install adobe-flashplugin
sudo apt-get install flashplugin-installer

sudo dpkg -i adobe-flashplugin_20161213.1-0ubuntu0.14.04.1_amd64.deb

from:
[http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/adobe-flashplugin_20161213.1-0ubuntu0.14.04.1_amd64.deb](http://archive.canonical.com/ubuntu/pool/partner/a/adobe-flashplugin/adobe-flashplugin_20161213.1-0ubuntu0.14.04.1_amd64.deb)

I have tried simply copying libflashplayer.so from the official adobe site flash_player_npapi_linux.x86_64.tar.gz, after updating the owner and permissions:

sudo chown root:root libflashplayer.so
sudo chmod 0644 libflashplayer.so

Copied to the following directories:

/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/
/usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/
/usr/lib/firefox-addons/plugins/
/home/USERNAME/.mozilla/plugins/


Since nothing was getting me past the INVALID pluginreg.dat error, I even tried manually installing the 32-bit libflashplayer.so, in case the Adobe downloads were mislabeled.

After each attempt, I also renamed pluginreg.dat to a backup file, so a new one was created when launching Firefox.

With the official installs, I notice that it results in:

/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/flashplugin-alternative.so
Which is a link to: 
/etc/alternatives/mozilla-flashplugin
Which in turn is a link to:
/usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so

As I mentioned, I also tried simply copying libflashplayer.so to those folders as well as trying to create them as links to /usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so.

libflashplayer.so hashes:

MD5:
52d5e951bafcdb493d1a980a62c0f80e

SHA1:
1f8d588d4ae81a50c8e57fae4c0c15fd3c6ae45a

As well as renaming the Firefox pluginreg.dat, I also tried renaming ~/.adobe and ~/.macromedia, so the new installs wouldn't use old data.

Between each attempt I was also doing "sudo apt-get purge" on all adobe flash packages as well as manual deletes.

Finally, I tried going back to the latest previous version I could find: 11.2.202.644. That did load in Firefox, and shows version info on Adobe.com, but doesn't seem to be fully working as before. So, I removed it and went back to trying to get 24.0.0.186 working.

The one thing I haven't tried is completely reinstalling Firefox from scratch, but I want to avoid that until it's a last resort because I have a lot of custom configuration.


So, are there any other methods I can try to install the latest Flash on Firefox? Is there a way to pinpoint exactly why the officially installed Flash plugin doesn't load and shows up as "INVALID" in pluginreg.dat? Is anyone else running into this issue?

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2016-12-20
How did you install Firefox?  Where did you get Firefox from?

Please post the output from running each of the following commands in Terminal-
```
uname -a
file /usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so

```

---

### Post by dalew2 on 2016-12-20
> **halogen2 said:**
> How did you install Firefox?  Where did you get Firefox from?

Thanks for the reply. I believe it was installed by default with Ubuntu or otherwise I would have installed from Synaptic.

```
Build identifier: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Ubuntu; Linux x86_64; rv:50.0) Gecko/20100101 Firefox/50.0

Linux 3.13.0-106-generic #153-Ubuntu SMP Tue Dec 6 15:44:32 UTC 2016 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

/usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so: ELF 64-bit LSB  shared object, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), dynamically linked, BuildID[sha1]=221a84637cd411d23bb88a15d293bc77f5298e12, stripped

```

---

### Post by dalew2 on 2016-12-21
Well, I think the main problem was Apparmor with the Firefox profile enabled. Recent Firefox or Flash changes must have changed something because I never had a problem like this before with the default Firefox profile enabled.

I found this post:

[Apparmor blocked flash]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2325344")

At first, I just disabled the Firefox profile and Flash immediately worked. Then I re-enabled it and ran "sudo aa-logprof" repeatedly looking at apparmor="DENIED" profile="/usr/lib/firefox/firefox{,*[^s][^h]}" messages in syslog and added AppArmor rules to /etc/apparmor.d/usr.bin.firefox until Flash started working again.

Before that I had manually forced Firefox to see the plugin by editing pluginreg.dat. I deleted the INVALID section and added the following.

```
libflashplayer.so:$
/usr/lib/adobe-flashplugin/libflashplayer.so:$
24.0.0.186:$
1481413522000:0:0:0:$
Shockwave Flash 24.0 r186:$
Shockwave Flash:$
2
0:application/x-shockwave-flash:Shockwave Flash:swf:$
1:application/futuresplash:FutureSplash Player:spl:$
```

That allowed Firefox to find the Flash plugin so it appeared in about:plugins an about:addons > Plugins, but Flash still didn't work (on Adobe.com) until I added a handful of Apparmor rules with aa-logprof.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2016-12-21
Wait, does this mean that Adobe has begun supporting Linux again?  Last I heard there would be only security updates to version 11.x.  To run 24.x I've had to use the Windows version of the plugin via Pipelight in the past.

---

### Post by dalew2 on 2016-12-22
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> Wait, does this mean that Adobe has begun supporting Linux again?

Yes.

[https://helpx.adobe.com/security/products/flash-player/apsb16-39.html](https://helpx.adobe.com/security/products/flash-player/apsb16-39.html)

[https://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/otherversions/](https://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/otherversions/) 

[Adobe releases Flash 24 for Linux](https://www.ghacks.net/2016/12/18/after-ignoring-linux-for-years-adobe-releases-flash-24-for-linux/)

---

