---
title: "11.10 to 12.04: Post-upgrade boot failure"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andycastille on 2012-04-27
When booting after upgrading to 12.04 from 11.10, it stalls with the ubuntu logo and the dots going. Pressing an F# key opens a log where there are repeated "-tion manager" / "[fail]" entries. the screen cuts off the first part of "-tion". It stays like this for a long time and will not boot.

---

### Post by amordeastrum on 2012-04-27
I had same issues while upgrading from 11.10 to 12.04 alpha.

First i thought my laptop died during the upgrade so I tried to resume distro upgrade

but in my case something just happened to be wrong and I had to do clean install of 12.04 alpha.

My suggestion is to back up data as much as possible and just do a clean install, 

but if thats not an option you could try this.

This method did work for me during 10.04 to 10.10 upgrade when my laptop died.
[http://superuser.com/questions/125042/power-cut-during-ubuntu-upgrade-to-10-04-boots-to-command-line-apt-get-and-dp](http://superuser.com/questions/125042/power-cut-during-ubuntu-upgrade-to-10-04-boots-to-command-line-apt-get-and-dp)

---

### Post by FatFrog on 2012-04-28
I'm having the same problem. 

I installed a clean version of 12.04 early this morning along side my 11.10 partition. I liked what I saw so I decided to upgrade my existing instance.
After the reboot required by upgrade, I saw the same error you do. When I rebooted to get to the clean partition, I noticed that the kernel version was different.

11.10 upgraded to 12.04 - 3.0.23
12.04 clean install - 3.0.24...
If I don't get it fixed int he next few hours, I'll likely just blow it away and start fresh, like I probably should have just done in the first place.

---

### Post by FatFrog on 2012-04-28
After reading the Ubuntu 12.04 Upgrade chaos post (I'd link, but I cant just yet) i think my suspicions about the kernel version may be wrong... either way, still looking for a fix, but i am not hopeful.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-04-28
I generally do fresh installs, but I do have a few machines that I do  upgrades on to see what problems I run into.  Unfortunately (I guess), I  didn't have any problems at all this time, so I can't say "Here's how I fixed it."

But I can ask a question regarding a common issue that frequently borks upgrades:

Did either of you, by chance, have a proprietary graphics driver installed and did you uninstall it before you did the upgrade?

Could each of you hold the space bar down near the end of your BIOS process and hold it down until the GRUB menu comes up?  From GRUB, choose recovery, then drop to root.  Leave the root prompt to get back to the recovery menu and then select to continue booting.  That will continue the boot process in verbose mode.  You may be able to jot down where it gets stuck and get back to us with where that is.

I don't like the "Blast off and nuke 'em from orbit" approach of just reinstalling if it can be avoided.

---

### Post by aidenglen on 2012-05-06
I have not even made it to the 12.04 Upgrade yet, but still have entered the chaos. I updated 11.10 this morning thinking I may then try the 12.04 upgrade (we are advised to update before upgrading). Updates finished - computer then tells me to restart but it will not boot. Sticks on ubuntu logo and dots.  I've tried holdiong the space bar during the start up - at least that got scan disk to run, but it still cannot boot. I'm on a Toshiba Satellite L745. Any advice gratefully received.

---

### Post by bobjohnbowles on 2012-05-08
Hi, I have upgraded 3 laptops to Ubuntu 12.04. The first was a clean install on an old machine, and it went so well I decided to upgrade my #2 workhorse. That, too, went fine, so this morning I had a go at upgrading my #1 machine. You guessed, everything went fine until the reboot, and now all I get is the black screen...
I tried QIII's approach to see if I could isolate what was going on, but it just took longer to get to the black screen :(
Some would say 2 out of 3 ain't bad, but installs and upgrades have to be right first time, every time, and leaving people with a dead machine is not going to earn Ubuntu any smartie points.
In case the details are useful to someone:
Clean install (works great): Sony Vaio PCG-7Z2M (32-bit)
Working upgrade (even better than 11.10): Dell Inspiron M4040 (64-bit)
Hopeless Fail: Dell Studio XPS 1645 (64-bit)
Before the black screen appears and the fan goes crazy, I see an apparently random message on the screen about starting or stopping various daemons. It never seems to be the same message, so it does not really help. One other clue is the splash screen on the Studio refers explicitly to Ubuntu 12.04, not Ubuntu as on the other two machines.
I guess I have no choice but the nuclear option, but I am sad, because I thought I had got away from that rubbish when I dumped Windows...

---

