---
title: "8.10 - Compiz Fusion just wont work"
date: 2008-11-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Slythe on 2008-11-11
Hi everybody,

I have been searching through the forums and Internet for days now, i have recently upgraded to xubuntu 8.10, I have tried to install Compiz fusion (and been successful - with the install at least) but it does not work. Inparticular i really want to get the Shift Switcher to work.

Alas, it does not, neither do any of the other effects.

Some information you that might be useful - In the settings manager, under windows manager tweaks, Compositor tab, Enable Display Compositing is checked.

You help will be greatly appriciated.

Thanks,
Slythe

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2008-11-11
What is your hardware, as it could be that itm is just not good enough to run compiz properly.  In terminal type ```
glxinfo
``` and if at the top of the  the output it says 
```
name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes

```all should be OK,  if the line is ```
direct rendering: No
```that is why compiz will not work.

---

### Post by Slythe on 2008-11-11
Hi, 

Thanks for the reply, the output of that command is;

```
name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes

```

any more ideas?

Thanks,
Slythe

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2008-11-11
howto install and setup compiz in xubuntu: [http://xubuntublog.wordpress.com/2007/12/09/xubuntu-compiz-pretty-pretty-xubuntu/]("http://xubuntublog.wordpress.com/2007/12/09/xubuntu-compiz-pretty-pretty-xubuntu/")

---

### Post by seren6ipity on 2008-11-26
> **Slythe said:**
> Hi, 

Thanks for the reply, the output of that command is;

```
name of display: :0.0
display: :0  screen: 0
direct rendering: Yes

```

any more ideas?

Thanks,
Slythe

1. Can you verify that compiz works when you run it from terminal? May be it is not set to autostart. If compiz works on terminal then you can set it to autostart by going to Applications - Settings - SettingsManager - Autostarted Apps. 
If it does not work try #2 and then again #1.

2. Verify that you have xserver-xgl installed.

I use an ATI card and got compiz to work like this.

---

