---
title: "NVIDIA driver problems"
date: 2010-12-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cconner94 on 2010-12-18
Hi everyone. This is my 2nd post. I've used Ubuntu for a while, but I'm totally stuck. I've tried my hardest to get the Nvidia driver to work (it stopped working after a recent kernel upgrade). I even tried another thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1640491](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1640491)

No matter what I do, I get the following messing when opening the NVIDIA settings:
You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server.


I've:
[LIST]
[*]Googled every combination of issues I can find
[*]Installed / uninstalled multiple versions of NVIDIA drivers from the web site (last step was to uninstall all)
[*]Used Synaptic to install NVIDIA drivers
[*]Attempted to use Nouveau drivers
[*]Everything else I could find online
[/LIST]

My laptop boots into low graphics mode, and I cannot get NVIDIA drivers to work. And my screen exhibits very odd behavior (see other thread for screen shot).

After all I've tried, I wonder if my NVIDIA card has problems?

Ubuntu 10.04 LTS
NVIDIA GeForce 8400M GS
Dell Inspiron 1420

Thanks guys

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-18
How were the Nvidia drivers installed? From the repositories or by using the binary downloaded from the manufacturer's website?

Did you try booting the older kernel?

Post the output of these commands.

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

```
glxinfo | grep vendor
```

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by ellgor on 2010-12-18
Hi,

Found this guide that gets the nvidia drivers in and running as they should:

Download the latest drivers for your card from the Nvidia site.

Stop the display with this:

sudo gdm-stop / sudo stop gdm (for some reason either one is not recognised on different OS's)

A black screen with terminal access will be presented, if not an unresponsive black screeen which can be changed by pressing Ctrl-Alt- and any of the F1_to F6 keys, login and  type in: 

sudo telinit 3 

cd to the nvidia file and start it with this:

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-260.19.12.run (change this to match the one you have)

Follow the nvidia guide during which it will ask to remove any previous files, agree

Once done restart the gdm with:

sudo service gdm start

Hope this helps,

Regards, Ellgor.

---

### Post by VietCanada on 2010-12-18
I googled X-org and selected their stable PPA to add to my software sources. I get drivers with my updates now.

Before that however I selected System>Administration>Additional Drivers and selected the driver with the higher number. 

My understanding is that if choose the route of installing the driver from Nvidia then you have to re-install it every time the kernel is updated.

Whatever else you do you might send a mail to Nvidia requesting they supply drivers for Linux. Why don't these companys properly service their market?

---

### Post by tredegar on 2010-12-18
> **VietCanada said:**
> Whatever else you do you might send a mail to Nvidia requesting they supply drivers for Linux. Why don't these companys properly service their market?
I think you are mistaken.

NVIDIA are one of the few companies who have supported linux from (almost) the very beginning. So please do not send them complaining emails.

Their (linux) driver download page is here: [http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us)

The only other company I know that offers such good support for linux is HP.

So, naturally, I *only* buy NVIDIA graphics, and *all* my printers come from HP.

"You *know* it makes sense" ;)

---

### Post by cconner94 on 2010-12-18
@sikander3786

Here are the outputs you requested:

```
lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G86 [GeForce 8400M GS] (rev a1)

```


```
$ glxinfo | grep vendor
The program 'glxinfo' is currently not installed.  You can install it by typing:
sudo apt-get install mesa-utils
```

```
$ cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Sun Nov  8 21:50:38 PST 2009


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Thank you!!!

---

### Post by cconner94 on 2010-12-18
@ellgor

> Download the latest drivers for your card from the Nvidia site.

Stop the display with this:

sudo gdm-stop / sudo stop gdm (for some reason either one is not recognised on different OS's)

A black screen with terminal access will be presented, if not an unresponsive black screeen which can be changed by pressing Ctrl-Alt- and any of the F1_to F6 keys, login and type in: 

sudo telinit 3 

cd to the nvidia file and start it with this:

sudo sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-260.19.12.run (change this to match the one you have)

Follow the nvidia guide during which it will ask to remove any previous files, agree

Once done restart the gdm with:

sudo service gdm start

I have tried following those exact instructions for multiple versions of the NVIDIA drivers.  The behavior of my machine hasn't changed after any install/uninstall.  Versions I've tried:
173.14.28
185.18.36
195.36.31
260.19.21
260.19.29

I also tried removing all nvidia references from Synaptic and reinstalling.  I also tried the nouveau driver (not sure I did it right, but the behavior didn't change).

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by DarkAmbient on 2010-12-18
Had the same problem and managed to get it to work, wrote about it here. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1648044](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1648044)
Dont consider it as a solution, just tried my way forth. And I guess it's kinda ugly.

Hope you get it to work. :-)

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-19
Try,

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

```
sudo shutdown -r now
```

Does it get rid of safe graphics now?

---

### Post by BicyclerBoy on 2010-12-19
Did you completely remove the nouveau graphics driver (in synaptic) ?

The nouveau kernel driver component can still be loaded & block the nvidia driver from starting.

The nouveau problem can require a blacklist entry in a .conf file.

Search for nouveau nvidia blacklisting.

If you install the nvidia driver by nvidia installer it will be broken with each kernel update.
This can be avoid by using the package manager/jockey or 3rd party ppa.

---

### Post by cconner94 on 2010-12-20
> BicyclerBoy
Did you completely remove the nouveau graphics driver (in synaptic) ?

The nouveau kernel driver component can still be loaded & block the nvidia driver from starting.

The nouveau problem can require a blacklist entry in a .conf file.

Search for nouveau nvidia blacklisting.

If you install the nvidia driver by nvidia installer it will be broken with each kernel update.
This can be avoid by using the package manager/jockey or 3rd party ppa.
I had uninstalled all nouveaux packages via Synaptic (basically by searching for nouveaux and completely removing related packages). I also had blacklisted nouveaux by adding the following to the bottom of blacklist.conf:
```
blacklist vga16fb
blacklist nouveau
blacklist rivafb
blacklist nvidiafb
blacklist rivatv

```

Inexplicably, my laptop booted normally this morning with no safe mode. But, this has happened before during this 2-month saga.  Eventually (15 minutes to a couple of days - randomly), my graphics tend to freeze up and the computer is nonresponsive...no keyboard, mouse or other input is accepted. I have to shut down by holding the power key.

So...I'll hold my breath and see if this continues to work.  Unfortunately, I have to carry around my Windoze machine because Ubuntu has become unreliable for me :-(

I will re-post here if another lockup occurs.  If I'm good for a week or so, I'll mark this as solved.

Thanks to this forum! I am constantly amazed at the unending "kindness of strangers" here.

---

### Post by cconner94 on 2010-12-20
Also, for the first time in many (hundreds?) of tries, when I go to System > Administration > NVIDIA X Server Settings, I don't get the message "You don't appear to be using an NVIDIA driver"; the settings actually open!  Hopefully this is good news.

---

### Post by colobix on 2010-12-21
> **cconner94 said:**
> Also, for the first time in many (hundreds?) of tries, when I go to System > Administration > NVIDIA X Server Settings, I don't get the message "You don't appear to be using an NVIDIA driver"; the settings actually open!  Hopefully this is good news.

so how did you solve this problem?

---

### Post by cconner94 on 2010-12-21
I honestly do not know which step fixed the problem, but I'll make my best guess for the set of steps that worked:
1) Removing all NVIDIA drivers by running both the drivers downloaded from the NVIDIA site and choosing uninstall, as well as removing them all via Synaptic
2) Blacklisting nouveaux, etc. as mentioned a couple posts up
3) Installing nvidia-settings and nvidia-common (from Synaptic or via the hardware driver settings, I don't recall)
Somewhere in there I went to System>Admin>Hardware Drivers and enabled nvidia restricted drivers.

I went through so many combinations and reboots that it's all a wash, and after a MONTH of being down (and having to use Windoze) I was desperately trying whatever I could find.

Sorry I can't be a more help, but I'd say the bottom line was that I cleaned everything up and started over with nvidia.

---

### Post by colobix on 2010-12-21
OH but you did help me:)
Thank you sooooo freaking much :) Damn that was a downer.
Seriously, Thanks a lot :)
:KS:KS:KS
:popcorn:

OK so here's the guide:

1) Removi all NVIDIA drivers from synaptic (173, current etc)
2) Open up your blacklist.conf file with gedit from root (sudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf), and paste in these lines at the end of the file:
blacklist vga16fb
blacklist nouveau
blacklist rivafb
blacklist nvidiafb
blacklist rivatv
3) Installing nvidia-settings and nvidia-common (from Synaptic)
4) Reboot
5) Go to Additional Drivers (System>admin), and there you will see 2 new driver choices. Enable the recommended one.
6) Reboot and everything works like a charm.

---

### Post by cconner94 on 2010-12-22
My display driver quit AGAIN. I had been using the machine for several days without incident.  Then I started seeing strange video artifacts on the laptop LCD.  Next time I rebooted, there was the odd, dual-screen look (see other thread mentioned above for a screen shot), the "no screens found" error and an inability to get into Gnome.

I tried the "plug into a monitor using VGA connection" trick, and I was able to boot into failsafe graphics mode.  Once again, the system does not recognize my NVIDIA driver as being in use.

Note: I changed no settings over the last several days, and I had rebooted and used the machine successfully after installing the latest updates.

Is there any way to run a diagnostic on my video card? I wonder if it or my laptop LCD are just wearing out? 3 1/2 years isn't a bad run with pretty heavy use, I guess.

Anyone have any thoughts?

---

