---
title: "13.10 crontab jobs don't generate notifications"
date: 2014-01-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pastim on 2014-01-19
I run a cron job using luckybackup to create daily backups.  On 12.04 this runs fine, and generates useful, persistent, notifications to the top menu bar (I have "[COLOR=#333333][FONT=Liberation Serif]indicator-notifications"[/FONT][/COLOR] installed) that tell me the job ran and was OK or not.

With a new installation of 13.10 on a new PC the job still runs but I cannot, for the life of me, get the notifications to work.  I have tried many, many tweaks suggested on many forums, but none worked.

If I run the luckybackup manually I get the notifications I expect, as on 12.04, so I don't think luckybackup is at fault here.

I believe that the cron job, although in my user name, is actually run under su, and lacks some environment variables, but I don't know which ones, and my attempts to import all of my own to the job did not work.

If I add env DISPLAY=:0.0 (instead of env DISPLAY=:0) on the job line I get a different type of non-persistent notification when the job starts (in a bubble at at top left).



Any clues?

---

### Post by pastim on 2014-01-23
The program I am running is using notify-send, but this is clearly not working.  I tried 

```

sudo notify-send Hello ByeBye

```

and got an error indicating that there was no password (I have no root password set).

I discovered the solution at [http://fhanik.blogspot.co.uk/2014/01/notify-send-as-cronjob.html](http://fhanik.blogspot.co.uk/2014/01/notify-send-as-cronjob.html)

My crontab entry for running a command xxxxxxx at hh:ss now looks like:

[FONT=Liberation Serif]```

ss hh * * *     eval "export $(egrep -zDBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS /proc/$(pgrep -u $LOGNAMEgnome-session)/environ)" && gsettings setcom.canonical.notify-osd multihead-mode focus-follow && env DISPLAY=:0 xxxxxxx

```[/FONT]

---

