---
title: "[8.04 LTS server] Freeing up disk space ... oddity"
date: 2009-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stoiss on 2009-11-23
Hi there :)

I have been having problems freeing up disk space on my Ubuntu server (8.04 LTS) install lately.

Total disk space after formatting with ext3 is 55gig.

After going through a couple of dist upgrades (initially running 6.06 LTS) as well as regular package upgrades, the system takes up about 60% of the disk.

```
df -h
```

Tells me that /dev/sda1 is about 65% used up

If I go over all the directories, including hidden ones, in "/" with 

```
du -h /dirname
```

and sum up the numbers they simply don't add up.

No matter what I do to free up disk space (apt-get auto-clean, localepurge, deborphan, etc.) the disk usage stays the same.

I finally do the thing I usually don't do with servers. 

Reboot the damn thing ... and get all my space back. :o

Now the disk usage is about 5%.

Symptom fixed, but the problem remains ...


Can anyone tell me what eats up my disk space over time, where/how to locate the space and how to free it up without rebooting? 


Cheers 

.stoiss

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-11-23
One possibility is file stored in /tmp that get cleared out when you restart your system.

---

### Post by stoiss on 2009-11-23
> **lisati said:**
> One possibility is file stored in /tmp that get cleared out when you restart your system.

I remember checking /tmp aswell - nothing of significance there.

Googling for the problem/symptoms gives me the impression that I'm not the only one experiencing this problem, after trying all sorts of things to locate and free up the space.

So if a reboot frees up space and it didn't come from /tmp ... where DID it come from? :confused:

---

### Post by MiCK.ca on 2009-11-23
If you have done upgrades throughout using Ubuntu then perhaps you should check your "cache" folder. ALL packages that are updated and upgraded have the actual package stored in the cache folder then Synaptics installs from there. Which i believe is under var/cache/apt/archives/. 

Now some people set Synaptics up to delete packages after install. check this in Synaptics under preferences>files tab

lastly, even if you use apt-get, you still should have a cache packages build up

p.s.
The coolest and simplest tool for cleaning unwanted files is Ubuntu Tweak.

---

### Post by ratcheer on 2009-11-23
That is a great thread title - "Ground Control to Major Thom...."

Tim

---

