---
title: "[10.04] I had sound, no there is no sound"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shuknjive on 2010-05-04
In my quest to find a fix to prevent AOL mail from crashing my system back to the login screen, I am now experiencing the loss of sound.  I get the Ubuntu bongos at the login screen, but once I log in there is no Ubuntu theme song, and I have no sound from ANY program.  This is what has been done to the system (Dell Latitude D600 laptop):
1.) I added the medibuntu and partner repositories.
2.) I disabled the ubuntu extras extension in Firefox (this fixed my Firefox from crashing whenever I accessed my AOL mail).
3.) I installed sun-java and the jre from the partner repository.

And that's it.  Anybody have any ideas?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-05
> **shuknjive said:**
> In my quest to find a fix to prevent AOL mail from crashing my system back to the login screen, I am now experiencing the loss of sound.  I get the Ubuntu bongos at the login screen, but once I log in there is no Ubuntu theme song, and I have no sound from ANY program.
.........
And that's it.  Anybody have any ideas?

Go into System-Preferences-Sound and check the output device.

I just found that mine had changed from Analog output to HDMI output all by itself......

---

### Post by shuknjive on 2010-05-06
I solved this problem, as well as the rest of my problems by reverting back to 8.04LTS.

---

### Post by Usabent on 2010-05-06
Uh i think there is no way to use 8.04 anymore? i thought it end of life?

---

