---
title: "[SOLVED] I made my dropdown and popup menus vanish"
date: 2008-08-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ethyrdude on 2008-08-10
Ok, didn't take me too long to foobar things up.  I wanted to make my drop down and pop up menus transparent so I went into advanced desktop settings, general... and added the terms dropdownmenu and set the value to 0 and then did the same for popupmenu and now my menus are invisible.  They are still there but I can't see them and cannot get into the settings window to change or remove those settings.

While this is annoying, it's not catastrophic, I think.  I want to access the configure file with gedit to remove those two settings, or just blow the entire config away and start from scratch.  What I need to know is where is the config file for compiz?  I can probably locate it with a little trial and error but I'd rather have as little trial as possible.

---

### Post by rainwalker on 2008-08-10
Why can't you get to CCSM?

---

### Post by Ethyrdude on 2008-08-10
I actually tried ccsm before my whole menu issue and I kept getting an error and wouldn't let me continue...
GConf backend: There is an unsupported value at path /apps/compiz/plugins/scale/allscreens/options/initiate_edge. Settings from this path won't be read. Try to remove that value so that operation can continue properly.

I still get this error now but at least ccsm starts up.  I probably fixed it with what I did to "restore" my menus, I just blew away all directories with . in front of them, if that hadn't worked, I would have set up a new user and blown away my old one.

What really irks me is that I still don't have transparent menus.:(  I do know how to make invisible ones. :)

Ok, found a posting by Someguydude

 Re: How can I do menu transparent in GNOME
Preferences -> Advanced Desktop Appearance (whatever) -> General Options -> Opacity settings.

Put in "Tooltip | Menu | PopupMenu | DropdownMenu" and 90.

To increase transparency, lower 90 but do not set at 0 or you'll have the same problem as I did.  I wanted to have an almost clear menu but this also makes the text clear so be warned and be aware you may not get the effect you want.

---

### Post by rainwalker on 2008-08-10
You need to make sure not to set values to 0 or they'll be totally invisible :P
Also, next tim you probably don't want to delete ALL of the .whatever directories, because those are the hidden config folders that keep the settings for all your programs.

---

### Post by Ethyrdude on 2008-08-11
Yep - Setting that value to 0 is what happened to me, a nice clear see through menu that was absolutely useless.  You'd be surprised to see how that affected other programs as well.  What I tried to do initially was to uninstall compiz through synaptic, maybe not the best solution either but this was impossible also because the menu needed to install or remove was also invisible.

On a good note, most of the .dirs are back, regenerated by whatever needed them, I wasn't too worried about that but there were a few surprises, my bookmarks in Firefox were gone, all three of them so they had to be recreated but what wasn't so much fun was that all the windows settings were gone, I couldn't move, resize or reposition anything, so that took a bit of time to figure out.  

One thing I can't understand is why 'move windows' is under uncategorized instead of with the rest of the windows settings?  I have a feeling that this setting might have been missed and stuck down there as an after thought.  It does make it difficult to find especially if that part of the window is hidden.  At least maximize brought that back to where I could see it.

---

### Post by ouman63 on 2008-08-14
You guys are geniuses!  I had this same problem and had it fixed in 2 minutes.  Thank you!

---

