---
title: "10.10 starts loading Grub but fails"
date: 2011-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Yamipirogoeth on 2011-06-01
I'm running 10.10 on a Compaq Presario M2000 laptop and when I boot the laptop I have to choose which kernel I want to run.

```
GNU GRUB version 1.98+20100804-5ubuntu3

Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-28-generic
Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-28-generic (recovery mode)
Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-22-generic
Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-22-generic (recovery mode)

Memory test (memtest86+)
Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)

Use the Up and Down keys to select which entry is highlighted. Press enter to boot the selected OS , 'e' to edit the commands before booting or 'c' for a command-line.
```

If I choose to go to the command line I get a command line starting GRUB> but I can't do any of the commands I've found to try fixing GRUB.

I've been following this link to purge and reinstall GRUB: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099) but I can't use any commands. So then I'll try to get into the normal installation by choosing a kernel.

But, regardless of which kernel or its respective recovery mode, it always takes me to a screen saying the following:

```
No init found. Try passing init= bootage.

BusyBox v1.15.3 (Ubuntu 1:1.15.3-1ubuntu5) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of built-in commands.

(initramfs)
```

I do have some command line functionality to where I was able to find out where the file system is located.

My problem at this point is I want to try and recover some documents that were on one of the 2 user accounts and either fixing the installation so either user can normally log in or if I have to, reinstall 10.10 onto the HDD.

Any suggestions as to how could could do either of those would be great.

---

### Post by Yamipirogoeth on 2011-06-09
Update!

I was able to get the dvd-rom drive working and was able to boot into a Maverick Live CD environment.

I again tried to follow the instructions at this link: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1581099)

However, when I'm typing the commands into terminal for the normal installation, I get the following replied:

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mkdir /mnt/temp
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/temp
Segmentation fault
```

I've found some stuff about what segmentation faults are but not how to fix them so I can continue on with these steps.

Any help at this point would be great!!

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-09
I don't want to discourage you installing 10.10 on there..  But don't use Unity or Gnome..  I would use Lubuntu 32-bit..   Plus you may need to install ndiswrapper to get your wireless going.. I just cross-referenced your system with what other users reported on that laptop. 

You can do a minimal installation of Lubuntu with a alternative installation disc of 10.10. Install it from the command line. :) 

Even better would to use Puppy Linux.   But keep trying. :)

---

### Post by jramshu on 2011-06-09
It's not a grub error is why reinstalling grub doesn't work.

If you are still booted into the live image try this:

This will make sure of the partitions name:
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

Post output.

---

### Post by Yamipirogoeth on 2011-06-10
Thanks for the suggestion linuxinstalledfromhdd, however, I chose Ubuntu as I've found it easier for someone to use who's extremely used to a Windows environment.

jramshu, here is the output:

```
Disk /dev/sda: 80.0 GB, 80026361856 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/tracks, 9729 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00079aca

Device Boot  Start  End   Blocks    Id  System
/dev/sda1 *      1  9443  75846656  83  Linux
/dev/sda2     9443  9730  2301953    5  Extended
/dev/sda5     9443  9730  2301952   82  Linux swap / Solaris
```

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2011-06-10
Is your install 32 or 64bit?

Is the LiveCD 32 or 64bit?

You need to use the same one for the system you are attempting to repair.

Whilst on the LiveCD also post the output of the boot script please:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)

---

### Post by Yamipirogoeth on 2011-06-10
Ruby1200 - Both the install and the Live CD are the 32-bit version, in fact I'm using the same Live CD I used to install to the system.

I did download that Boot Info Script but I have had it running in the terminal now for about an hour and this is all is has said so far:

```
boot_info_script version: 0.60  (17 MAY 2011)

"gawk" could not be found, using "busybox awk" instead.
This may lead to unreliable results.

Identifying MBRs...
Computing Partition Table of /dev/sda...
Computing Partition Table of /dev/sdb...
Searching sda1 for information...
```

There is a flashing cursor on the next line after it says its searching but that's all it was done for an hour. Should it take this long on an 80GB drive?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-10
It should only take a few seconds to run.
Have you done any partitioning lately?

---

### Post by Yamipirogoeth on 2011-06-10
Nope, I have not partitioned this drive in anyway.

I installed the drive, then installed Ubuntu off the Live CD, that was it.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-10
Did you check BIOS after you installed that drive to update it?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2011-06-10
Has the hard drive been used in a raid array?

---

### Post by Yamipirogoeth on 2011-06-11
linuxinstalledfromhdd - Yes, I made sure BIOS was set correctly

Quackers - Nope, I bought the drive brand new off Newegg and installed it directly into the laptop, never into anything else

---

