---
title: "Extremely slow start up"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Brandma on 2010-10-10
I have had an extremely slow startup (upwards of a few minutes) for awhile now, and nothing seems to work to fix it.  Regular boot time is far slower than it should be, and the time of logging in to a workable desktop is just really bad.  I will log in, and then I will either get a blank desktop screen for awhile or an all black screen until the desktop will fully load with errors from gnome-panel and AWN not starting up automatically.  Some of the fixes I have tried:

Disabling floppy from bios

[Downgrading gnome keyring]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1506585&page=4")

[Removing gnome* and gconf* from the home directory]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1506585&page=4")

[Putting this script in /etc/init.d]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/network-manager/+bug/78263")
#!/bin/sh
echo "nameserver 0.0.0.0" > /etc/resolv.conf

Here's my bootchart and a link in case the upload has problems
[http://i.imgur.com/LSRGC.png](http://i.imgur.com/LSRGC.png)

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-10-10
You are using 10.04? Please post your hardware specs.

There has been a bug with Lucid regarding USB devices plugged in causing slow boot. It is not the case here?

---

### Post by Brandma on 2010-10-10
Here you go: Dell Inspiron E1505

System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 10/10/2010 4:48:15 PM
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo](http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo)

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 10.04 (lucid) release.
	GNOME: 2.30.2 (Ubuntu 2010-06-25)
	Kernel version: 2.6.32-25-generic (#44-Ubuntu SMP Fri Sep 17 20:26:08 UTC 2010)
	GCC: 4.4.3 (i486-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: unknown (21 July 2010  12:47:34PM) (21 July 2010  12:47:34PM)
	Hostname: brandma
	Uptime: 0 days 0 h 9 min

CPU INFORMATION
	GenuineIntel, Genuine Intel(R) CPU           T2400  @ 1.83GHz
	Number of CPUs: 2
	CPU clock currently at 1833.000 MHz with 2048 KB cache
	Numbering: family(6) model(14) stepping(8)
	Bogomips: 3661.85
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic mtrr pge mca cmov clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe nx constant_tsc arch_perfmon bts aperfmperf pni monitor vmx est tm2 xtpr pdcm

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 2004 MB
	Total swap: 5867 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  WDC WD2500BEVS-0 
	SCSI device -  scsi1
		Vendor:  HL-DT-ST 
		Model:  DVD+-RW GSA-T21N 

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/PM/GMS, 943/940GML and 945GT Express Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
		Subsystem: Dell Device 01bd
	PCI bridge(s)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 4 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e1) (prog-if 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family PCI Express Port 4 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev e1) (prog-if 01)
	USB controller(s)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01) (prog-if 20)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 01)
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01) (prog-if 20)
	ISA bridge
		Intel Corporation 82801GBM (ICH7-M) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
		Subsystem: Dell Device 01bd
	IDE interface
		Intel Corporation 82801GBM/GHM (ICH7 Family) SATA IDE Controller (rev 01) (prog-if 80 [Master])
		Subsystem: Dell Device 01bd

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 03)
		Subsystem: Dell Device 01bd

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		Intel Corporation N10/ICH 7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
		Subsystem: Dell Device 01bd

NETWORK
	Network controller
		Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
		Subsystem: Intel Corporation Device 1020
	Ethernet controller
		Broadcom Corporation BCM4401-B0 100Base-TX (rev 02)
		Subsystem: Dell Device 01af

It didn't seem to get my hard drive: 250 GB SATA

---

### Post by Brandma on 2010-10-12
Updates:

I upgraded to 10.10, and the problem persists.

Here's a link to the bootchart: [http://i.imgur.com/SwOMQ.png](http://i.imgur.com/SwOMQ.png)

---

### Post by sendblink23 on 2010-10-12
Did you tested disabling some start up apps? Ex: AWN  and any other startup apps you have(that you have installed)

Another did you try booting into safe mode with low graphics mode... to see if it still boots that slow

If it doesn't help... then... is there any possibility for you to try a clean install 10.10 to see if it still boots that slow(after rebooting 3 times - after all drivers & startup apps are recognized it should boot up really fast always on the next reboot).

Ofcourse I would only suggest this if you have a spare external hard drive to back up your files - if you don't then don't try a clean install

---

### Post by Brandma on 2010-10-13
> **sendblink23 said:**
> Did you tested disabling some start up apps? Ex: AWN  and any other startup apps you have(that you have installed)

Another did you try booting into safe mode with low graphics mode... to see if it still boots that slow

If it doesn't help... then... is there any possibility for you to try a clean install 10.10 to see if it still boots that slow(after rebooting 3 times - after all drivers & startup apps are recognized it should boot up really fast always on the next reboot).

Ofcourse I would only suggest this if you have a spare external hard drive to back up your files - if you don't then don't try a clean install

Disabling AWN's auto start-up had no effect.  I've never had to boot in low-graphics mode.  How do I do that safely so that it is just one-time and the computer will boot back up normally after that one attempt?

Doing a clean install has worked in the past.  I have had this issue in the past, and that has been the only thing that I could think of to fix it.  I refuse to do that, though.  There has to be a way to fix that besides a clean install.  Otherwise Ubuntu's promise of a quick boot is just about as empty as Microsoft's (which always boots quickly on a clean install).

---

