---
title: "kernel 2.6.35-22 to boot my ubuntu box"
date: 2011-03-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dexjul on 2011-03-15
Hi Everyone

I need your help I've accidentally delete my kernel on /boot my box wont boot.

If there any one to share there vmlinuz, initrg and other important file on /boot as same of version 2.6.35-22 to boot up my box is great appreciate.


Thanks

Dexter

---

### Post by kiyop on 2011-03-15
I am not sure whether the following method can revive your Ubuntu or not.

You can find **[FONT=Arial][B]linux-image-2.6.35-22-generic**[/FONT][/B] or so, at
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?&searchon=names&keywords=2.6.35-22-generic]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/search?lang=ja&searchon=names&keywords=2.6.35-22-generic")

and extract to find boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-...

initramfs (/boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-22-... ) may be generated by mkinitramfs command.
Please refer to
$ man mkinitramfs
$ info mkinitramfs

Of course, you must chroot from another living Ubuntu into dead Ubuntu and execute mkinitramfs.

---

### Post by kiyop on 2011-03-16
I could revive Ubuntu after deleting all the files and all the directories in /boot.

I booted with different Ubuntu with same version of kernel: 2.6.35-27-generic.
I mounted the target Ubuntu / partition whose label is IC15 into /media/hogehoge.
~$ sudo cp -a /media/hogehoge/boot/* .
~$ sudo rm /media/hogehoge/boot/*

I downloaded
[http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/l/linux/linux-image-2.6.35-27-generic_2.6.35-27.48_i386.deb](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/l/linux/linux-image-2.6.35-27-generic_2.6.35-27.48_i386.deb)
and decompressed.

I checked sha1sum values of 
 System.map-2.6.35-27-generic
  abi-2.6.35-27-generic
config-2.6.35-27-generic
vmcoreinfo-2.6.35-27-generic
vmlinuz-2.6.35-27-generic
in boot directory in the decompressed directory are the same as those of the copied files.

I copied
System.map-2.6.35-27-generic
  abi-2.6.35-27-generic
  config-2.6.35-27-generic
vmcoreinfo-2.6.35-27-generic
vmlinuz-2.6.35-27-generic
in the boot directory in the decompressed directory
into /media/hogehoge/boot.

$ sudo mount --bind /dev /media/hogehoge/dev
$ sudo mount --bind /sys /media/hogehoge/sys
$ sudo mount --bind /proc /media/hogehoge/proc
$ sudo chroot /media/hogehoge /bin/bash
/# mkinitramfs -o ~/initramfs-$(uname -r)
/# cp ~/initramfs-$(uname -r) /boot/initrd.img-$(uname -r)
/# exit
$ sudo umount -l /media/hogehoge/dev
$ sudo umount -l  /media/hogehoge/sys
$ sudo umount -l  /media/hogehoge/proc

I restarted and 
I used [kiyoshi's help]("http://kiyoandkei.blog68.fc2.com/blog-entry-47.html") and selected the ubuntu / partition and entered into sh.

kexec -l /mnt/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-27-generic --initrd=/mnt/boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-27-generic --append="root=LABEL=IC15 ro"
kexec -e

I succeeded in logging in Gnome of Ubuntu in the / partition.

---

