---
title: "12.04 - Flash Not Working"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BarfBag on 2012-04-27
I just installed Kubuntu 12.04 (64 bit), and I'm having problems with Flash.  I installed the kubuntu-restricted-extras package + Firefox.  After opening Firefox and going to YouTube to test Flash, I noticed that Firefox was not recnogizing the Flash installation from kubuntu-restricted-extras.  It prompted me to install it from within the browser, which I did.  After that, YouTube videos started working; they are, however, choppy.  In addition, websites are recnogizing the installation as an outdated version of Flash; which means I cannot watch embedded YouTube videos (among other things).  I have verified that flashplugin-installer is installed.  This happens in every browser I have tested it in.  Does anybody know what's going on?

---

### Post by BarfBag on 2012-04-27
> **rockinfreeworld said:**
> Try using the To Do List After installing Ubuntu 12.04 LTS aka Precise Pangolin:

[http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2012/03/09/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-12-04-lts-aka-precise-pangolin/](http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2012/03/09/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-12-04-lts-aka-precise-pangolin/)

That will fix that.

Thanks!  The link suggests installing Flash Aid, which did the trick.  For anyone who's having the same problem: [https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/)

---

### Post by Lothsahn on 2012-05-02
I attempted to install flashaid, but it didn't fix the problem.  Flashaid just attempted to reinstall the same broken 11.2.202.233 version of the plugin.

I finally resolved the problem by manually installing the adobe-flashplugin_11.1.102.62-0lucid1_i386.deb package.

---

### Post by Jvapr27 on 2012-11-12
I have the same  problem. First in fedora then reinstalled ubuntu and noticed the it there also. I tried every solution and no luck. The best it would get is that the plugin would crash after playing one video and never work again. 

I tried it on ubuntu amd fedora running on an old atholon xp2200, radeon x850pro. I think it may have something to do with either the video driver (using default driver as ati no longer provides driver updates for this card), or the cpu i am using. I know i had trouble installing a java program bc its virtual machine required a cpu with sseII instruction set which of course the atholon does not have. 

When i couldnt get it to work, i decided to move the drive to a different box and booted it up. And now flash videos work. This box is running a celeron 430 64 bit processor (using ubuntu 32 bit), integrated via s3 vga.Unless the issue is that flash may now require 64 bit hardware even if running on 32an bit os.

No solution here other than sharing my experience. If you have the same issue try moving the drive to a 64different hardware system and see if it works.

---

