---
title: "[11.04] Classic Gnome Menu *only* - as systray applet?"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by earthpigg on 2011-04-29
So, I'm test-driving the new Unity on my netbook.

If I log into classic Ubuntu, ill never get used to the new conventions.

I want to give the new Ubuntu a chance, but still have access to the standard gnome conventions while I transition.

Attached is an image of a panel applet that we have in 10.10, moved to the right so it looks like a system tray thing.

Since it appears 11.04 has no panel applet support, is it possible to convert that into a system tray applet that does nothing more than display the old menu hierarchy when clicked?

Alternatively, is there anywhere I can access a "classic" menu in 11.04?

I know the entire hierarchy is still present under-the-hood because lxpanel's menu works perfectly.

---

### Post by Blasphemist on 2011-04-29
Since unity does provide the functionality you describe though a bit differently, I suggest you look at the power users guide linked here.

[http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity](http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity)

One, though not the only way, to see program groupings is right click on the applications lens.

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-04-29
Click Applications in the unity menu, then in the upper right there'll be an All Applications drop down, which will probably be too many click for what you want.

---

### Post by earthpigg on 2011-04-29
skimming links/suggestions provided, thanks.

the approach i am currently playing with is having gnome-panel run at the bottom of the screen on autohide, but it seems to be refusing my command to stay put at the bottom.

---

