---
title: "TV Output using svideo cables"
date: 2010-01-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ant01 on 2010-01-12
Can someone please advise me how to connect using my TV as a monitor using SVideo cables.

I connect the computer and it boots up fine so that I can see it booting up with Grub until Ubuntu loads then the screen goes black and starts to flicker.

I was previously able to connect using Windows can I do the same with Ubuntu and do I need to upload drivers.

Thanks

---

### Post by chrisinspace on 2010-01-12
If you are using Nvdia or ATI, you may have to load the proprietary drivers first.  I'm using a GForce card to this on my HTPC and it works fine.

---

### Post by aeiah on 2010-01-12
if the tv displays grub then either ubuntu turns the svideo off, or changes to a resolution the tv can't support. do you have another monitor with which to configure things and test stuff? and yea, its important to state what video card and drivers you're using as things can differ greatly and people usually only have experience with one type

---

### Post by doas777 on 2010-01-12
for nvidia cards, you may have to add these lines to your xorg.conf, under the device:
```
Option         "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO"
    Option         "TVStandard" "NTSC-M"

```

here is some more info:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaTVOut](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaTVOut)

---

### Post by Ant01 on 2010-01-12
I am not sure which graphics card I am using, I think it may be a nvidia 

How do you load drivers for the graphics card and we run Pal as a standard in South Africa, so I assume the lines of code must read;

Option         "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO"
    Option         "TVStandard" "NTSC-Pal"

---

### Post by doas777 on 2010-01-12
> **Ant01 said:**
> I am not sure which graphics card I am using, I think it may be a nvidia 

How do you load drivers for the graphics card and we run Pal as a standard in South Africa, so I assume the lines of code must read;

Option         "TVOutFormat" "SVIDEO"
    Option         "TVStandard" "NTSC-Pal"

probably not NTSC-Pal (pal and ntsc are competing specs. so they would never mix), but you should be able to find the standard for your area here: [http://www.videouniversity.com/articles/world-wide-tv-standards](http://www.videouniversity.com/articles/world-wide-tv-standards)

---

### Post by frmdstryr on 2010-01-12
I couldn't do this with the ubuntu drivers, you need either ati or nvidia drivers to do this. (belive me i tried getting it to work for like 4 hours)

VGA on the other hand works fine if you can use that...

---

### Post by Ant01 on 2010-01-14
I checked and I have a inno3D GFX5500 graphics card. Where do I find the drivers and how do I load them.

---

### Post by audiomick on 2010-01-14
In
system> administration> hardware drivers

If should go and have a look, then offer you a proprietary driver to activate.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-01-14
download them from Nvidia

---

### Post by Ant01 on 2010-01-14
Thank you to everyone that helped me, I got it to work. The only problem is that the picture on the TV is black and white, I am not sure if this a cable problem or a setting. I have played around with the nvidia settings but it doesn't help. Also when I play a video the picture freezes periodically. I have a PC monitor connected at the same time and it is fine on the monitor.

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-01-14
I had B&W until this option was specified
see if this is in there
 Option         "TVStandard" "NTSC-M"


> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Sun Nov 22 18:18:46 PST 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Sun Nov 22 18:17:43 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Sony CPD-E540"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 170.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TVStandard" "NTSC-M"
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1600x1200 +0+0, TV: nvidia-auto-select +1600+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by sdowney717 on 2010-01-14
here was my thread
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1335502&highlight=svideo](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1335502&highlight=svideo)

---

### Post by Ant01 on 2010-01-15
:D Thank you, thank you, thank you I got it working, my setting for South Africa  is Option "TVStandard" "PAL-I"

The problem I have now is that my remote viewer to Ubuntu doesn't work from my laptop. I am not sure if this is as a result of updating the nvidia drivers.

I can view remotely but the mouse cursor only works on the ubuntu machine and not my laptop, the screen doesn't change on my laptop once the viewer is loaded in the ubuntu machine so moving the mouse on the laptop moves on the both machines but doesn't control from the laptop.

Secondly the keypad from my laptop works externally, so I can type on my laptop and it shows on the ubuntu machine.

Lastly, the screen on my laptop doesn't change with the ubuntu machine. 

Apologies if it sounds confusing..

---

