---
title: "Seriously disappointed."
date: 2008-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by paranoiahax on 2008-05-31
Okay, I'm seriously disappointed with the new distribution. I upgraded from my **7.10** installation, (which worked perfectly by the way, i loved it) and when i upgraded it completely messed with my graphics. When i rebooted the screen just became messed up, and i really couldn't do much whatsoever. So I've ordered myself a disk and i have to wipe my whole installation i think. but i insert my live disk, and with all previous live disks it comes with an option to "boot in safe graphics mode." however, 8.04 doesn't have this option, so when i boot it up the graphics fail completely, so i can't install the new version. What do i do? I am seriously disappointed in this, i've been using Ubuntu for 2-3 years, and I love it, had some problems with it but nothing like this where i can't really install it. 

Could I please have some help?

Regards, Para

--edit-- i upgraded from 7.10, sorry.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2008-05-31
You were asking a lot to upgrade two versions in one go, if that is really what you did.  It is only supposed to be done from one LTS version to the next LTS version or from one version to the immediate next one.

I can't help with your graphics problem, but I think you may need the alternate install CD, or perhaps use the straight install option on the live CD (I don't actually know if there is an alternate version this time) and see if that gives you options for graphics safe mode.  My hardware fits this version in the same way as all the previous ones, and I've found it to be brilliant and stable, with no real problems.  I'm sorry that isn't your situation as well, but some hardware is much easier than others, and that can't be entirely blamed on ubuntu, but partly with the makers of video cards etc.

---

### Post by paranoiahax on 2008-06-02
I'm using a Zepto laptop, with Nvidia graphics (GeForce 7600 I believe). How do I get my xorg config up when I can't go into bash? Is it located in a file somewhere on my partition?

P.S. I wasn't having a "bitching" session, I was merely stating that my old version (7.10, read up) worked perfectly with my graphics card as did all my other ones.

---

### Post by nunki on 2008-06-02
Try choosing the the recovery option from the grub menu. This should drop you to a root shell. Then ```
 cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf  

```

Paste the output here.

---

### Post by paranoiahax on 2008-06-02
okay thanks, shall do :)

---

### Post by paranoiahax on 2008-06-02
okay here's my xorg conf:

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"nv"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

if this is any help :)

Thanks in advance, Para

---

### Post by nunki on 2008-06-02
What does
```


dpkg -l |grep nvidia-glx


```

say?

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2008-06-02
You could try to boot in recovery and use the xfix option. It's supposedly bulletproof ;)

---

### Post by paranoiahax on 2008-06-02
erm.. i actually have no idea what it means, as i've never really configured xorg myself. but it says this: 

> ii  nvidia-glx-new                             169.12+2.6.24.12-16.34                             NVIDIA binary XFree86 4.x/X.Org 'new' driver


anyway, i've managed to copy my old xorg text into the xorg config file, booted up ubuntu and it works :D:D

however, my resolution is TINY and compiz has stopped working... any ideas?
I've tried changing by resolution but all that's listed is 800x600 and 640x480..

so i dunno how to change it.

---

### Post by nunki on 2008-06-02
> **paranoiahax said:**
> erm.. i actually have no idea what it means, as i've never really configured xorg myself. but it says this: 



anyway, i've managed to copy my old xorg text into the xorg config file, booted up ubuntu and it works :D:D

however, my resolution is TINY and compiz has stopped working... any ideas?
I've tried changing by resolution but all that's listed is 800x600 and 640x480..

so i dunno how to change it.

Did you copy the file in its entirety or just the relevant lines?

---

### Post by forestpixie on 2008-06-02
My xorg doesn't have the resolutions like it used to - I don't think that it woreks in quite the same way as it used to.

I set  my resolutions with nvidia-settings - you could try that, if it's not installed install it.

Run it as root - gksudo nvidia-settings

Other than that I don't know I can help much.

---

### Post by Old Marcus on 2008-06-02
For that I believe you have to go into xorg and configure it so it can detect your monitor.

I've got a graphics glitch as well. upgraded to 8.04 tonight and things have been going brilliantly except that I have these weird black 'bits on the top of my screen, regardless of whether the toolbar's there or not. Any ideas? I've tried changing my desktop wallpaper but it isn't letting me for some reason.

---

### Post by paranoiahax on 2008-06-02
anyone? i've installed the graphics driver and everything, but i just can't change the resolution :(

---

### Post by babylon2233 on 2008-06-02
You have to remove the old driver and try to install the new driver using envyng-gtk

```
sudo apt-get install envyng-gtk
```

You need to remove your old driver first.

Go to Application > System Tools > EnvyNG and choose your driver.

Check this out

[http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html]("http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html")

---

### Post by paranoiahax on 2008-06-05
the whole file, like i said, i'm completely new to how it's programmed, so not sure what it means, so i just copied the whole thing over. But I really have no idea how to change the resolution lol.

---

### Post by paranoiahax on 2008-06-13
The file in its entirety, I'm unsure of what most of it is. I might actually just go ahead and wipe it all, installing it from the disk instead. That'd be much easier, I'd just have to back-up all my files first.
Thanks for your help though guys,
Regards, Para

---

### Post by Grishka on 2008-06-13
run:
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
this should auto-fix your xorg.conf.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-06-13
I added Option  "DCC"      "false" to the monitor section of xorg.conf  and now I've got more resolution choices than I know what to do with and my Monitor is even detected properly in nvidia-settings

Jim

---

