---
title: "24.04 - Battery life impacts?"
date: 2024-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by csete on 2024-05-23
I recently updated from 23.10 to 24.04 and I'm seeing faster battery usage than in 23.10, even on the "power saver" profile.  I've noticed that TLP is no longer installed after the upgrade and I'm wondering if that is related?  I'm also assuming that mixing power profiles and TLP is probably not a great idea?  Does anyone have any suggestions to improve battery life on 24.04?

Thanks,
Craig

---

### Post by TenPlus1 on 2024-05-24
Move to a lighter desktop manager, Gnome is resource hungry and will use cpu and gpu more resulting in more battery being used. Xubuntu may be a better option.

---

### Post by csete on 2024-05-24
> **TenPlus1 said:**
> Move to a lighter desktop manager, Gnome is resource hungry and will use cpu and gpu more resulting in more battery being used. Xubuntu may be a better option.

Is it worse in this newer version?  While I don't doubt that there may be savings with a different desktop manager, I've been running with the default Gnome setup for years, so I guess I wouldn't expect the draw on Gnome to change significantly.

---

### Post by kc1di on 2024-05-24
You may want to give slimbook battery a try. It' helps my system with battery usage. 

you can get it from their PPA here:
[https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2021/10/slimbook-battery-4-released]("https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2021/10/slimbook-battery-4-released")

---

### Post by csete on 2024-05-29
I tried powertop, but didn't see much improvement.  I installed TLP and I seem to be getting much better battery life now.

---

### Post by trappo on 2024-09-07
> **csete said:**
> I tried powertop, but didn't see much improvement.  I installed TLP and I seem to be getting much better battery life now.

I had the same problem after a distribution upgrade. Solved after clean install.

---

