---
title: "8.10 Hidden file problem"
date: 2009-01-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2009-01-05
I set up firefox on a disk and have decided to uninstall it and start again. The main directory is called firefox and instide there are a few directories all with .fuse_hidden00000etc files. I do not how to delete them. Everytime I delete the files they come back after a screen refresth.

I have tried sudo rm -R-F .fuse

This did nothing.

Robin

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-05
You should probably try uninstalling firefox through synaptic, instead of manually deleting the files.

rm -rf .*

will recursively delete all hidden files starting in your current directory. Use with **caution**.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2009-01-05
rm -rf .*
It doesn't work. I think its a bug in the file system.

Your other way is to use synaptic. The problem here is that I did not use synaptic to install it. I downloaded a beta file and manually installed it on a non root drive. Would synaptic find the files to remove them?

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2009-01-05
rm -rf .*
It doesn't work. The files disappear and then reappear upon refreshing the file manager. I think its a bug in the file system.

Your other way is to use synaptic. The problem here is that I did not use synaptic to install it. I downloaded a beta file and manually installed it on a non root drive. Would synaptic find the files to remove them?

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-05
No, it wouldn't leaving manual removal the only option.

Try removing the folder that contains the hidden files

sudo rm -rf /path/containing/hidden/files

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2009-01-05
> **Titan8990 said:**
> No, it wouldn't leaving manual removal the only option.

Try removing the folder that contains the hidden files

sudo rm -rf /path/containing/hidden/files

rob@rob-desktop:/media/mydocs/Ubuntu Downloads/Firefox$ sudo rm -rf firefox
[sudo] password for rob: 
rm: cannot remove directory `firefox/chrome': Directory not empty
rm: cannot remove directory `firefox/components': Directory not empty

And I can not remove the files from the directories!

---

### Post by fragos on 2009-01-06
On the command line you must delete files in a folder before the folder is deleted. This isn't a requirement when deleting folders with Nautilus.

---

### Post by heindsight on 2009-01-06
> **fragos said:**
> On the command line you must delete files in a folder before the folder is deleted. This isn't a requirement when deleting folders with Nautilus.

but rm -rf recursively deletes directories (deleting contents and then removing the directory). so somehow there are files here that can not be deleted, the last time i encountered something like that it was due to filesystem corruption.

Robbyx, can you post the output of 
```
ls -laR firefox
```if we can see what's going on in there it may be easier to figure out how to fix it...

EDIT: never mind about the ls -laR
Is this firefox directory on an NTFS partition? have a look at this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=550145](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=550145)

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2009-01-07
I have been using PCMan as my filemanager and it would not allowm me to delete the files in the same way as Nautilus. I have just deleted the whole folder with Nautilus.

Thanks 

Robin

---

