---
title: "Nvidia Drivers and Configuration Xorg, Xwindows, Xserver, Xtc."
date: 2009-08-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jack Hammer on 2009-08-05
I am almost in fits of tears as I have posted numerous threads about my issue with no reply on mulitple forums.

I have installed lots of different distros of Linux, when I install Mint or Ubuntu it installs just fine and works incredibly well considering there is no graphics driver. My problems occur when I install the driver, which ever one I install, no matter how I install it I get the same issue: Upon reboot the OS recognises the graphics driver though will not load the Gnome Display Manager.

jackhammer@mint ~ $ sudo compiz --replace
[sudo] password for jackhammer: 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: xterm 
no xterm found, exiting

I am so confused I feel like smashing my P.C to bits with a hammer... 

[CENTER]:confused:
[/CENTER]

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-08-05
Did you follow the help guide:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NvidiaManual)

---

### Post by Jack Hammer on 2009-08-05
I did not follow that particular installation guide; I have however followed multiple others either command line or GUI based such as envy.

I will reinstall Linux and try again with that tutorial and post how I get on. Thank you.

---

### Post by Johnny B on 2009-08-05
could you post your xorg.conf from before and after the driver install?
and also, do you know the correct horizontal and vertical sync settings for your monitor?

---

### Post by Jack Hammer on 2009-08-05
> **Johnny B said:**
> could you post your xorg.conf from before and after the driver install?
and also, do you know the correct horizontal and vertical sync settings for your monitor?


I am not sure what you mean by sync settings?

I have two monitors:
24" Dell 1900x1200
37" Samsung 1024x768

---

### Post by Jack Hammer on 2009-08-05
My Xorg currently before starting the driver installation is:

> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Jack Hammer on 2009-08-05
Following the tutorial I have now changed the Xorg configuration file to:

> 
Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "dbe"
        Load    "ddc"
#       Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "record"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Jack Hammer on 2009-08-05
Following the tutorial; when I stop the GDM from running instead of entering into a console or terminal a blank screen is displayed. The same happens when trying to boot up low graphics mode or terminal boot on failed startup.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-08-05
After you stop the GDM, sometimes you won't be sent to the console login. If you hit CTRL+ALT+F1 when on the black screen, it will pull up the console login.

---

