---
title: ".XCompose instructions in help wiki broken in 13.10?"
date: 2013-12-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jyrinx on 2013-12-08
I set up my system ages ago to use custom .XCompose mappings by switching to XIM. They no longer work as of Saucy. It appears that the instructions given here are simply outdated, as something got broken:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ComposeKey#Compose_key_sequences](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ComposeKey#Compose_key_sequences)

I'm not the only one to note this, as there's an AskUbuntu post going unanswered:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/377477/customizing-the-compose-keys-behavior#comment490462_377477](http://askubuntu.com/questions/377477/customizing-the-compose-keys-behavior#comment490462_377477)

(I assume it's Saucy just because it's a new post, but he doesn't actually say.)

I've now got GTK_IM_MODULE set to "xim" in at least three different ways (/etc/environment, .gnomerc, and im-config), and if I launch gnome-terminal I get:

```
luke@rustyspoon ~ $ echo $GTK_IM_MODULE
xim
```

But I still only get the @#!%$# default compose combinations.

I've read in a few places that UIM promises to do lots of things including read .XCompose, allow Ctrl-Shift-U Unicode input, and work with eleventy thousand different input libraries at once, but frankly it's a bit overwhelming and I'd rather be sure it's necessary before I sign on for an evening of arguing with a complex library. So, does anyone know either:

[LIST]
[*]How to fix the wiki page to get XIM .XCompose functionality to work on 13.10, or
[*]Where I can find instructions for the UIM route? (Which might be as simple as “sudo apt-get install uim; im-config”, but I've been at this long enough not to dive in without expecting a good deal of tinkering.)
[/LIST]

---

### Post by jyrinx on 2013-12-10
Bonp

---

### Post by jyrinx on 2013-12-10
Okay, I broke down and did an aptitude install uim, and I was pleasantly surprised to find my cynicism was unwarranted :-D I just installed it, used im-config -n uim, then logged out and back in, and now my .XCompose works again. Also Shift-Ctrl-U works now, which may come in handy someday? Switching keyboard layouts from the GNOME icon even still works.

---

