---
title: "12.04 LTS 64-bit crashing randomly"
date: 2013-06-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by harrih on 2013-06-19
This system in question is Elitebook 5740w with i7/8Gb/Nvidia Quadro FX 1800/500 Gb SSD/un2400

OS has allways been 64-bit (all of them)

It has been running on Scientific Linuc 6 to 6.4 and on dual boot Fedora 12,17 and 18.

Now due R&D issues and related software on the project it was turned to Ubuntu 12.04 LTS without Unity but with Cinnamon, Gnome Shell and MATE.

The problem is that it randonmly crashes on program start. Samesymptom regardles of DM or DTM. 

Nvidia driver is stable 304.88 release and java is Sun... sorry Oracle 8 JDK

I have been uninstalling and removing software to recheck. Tried Java version from .6 to .8 and All nVIDIA driver variants avasilable except proprietary BIN. On SL6 i used proprietary driver from nVidia like on C5 and C4 series OS without problems.

Is there some issue what I am not aware or is this Ubuntu unstability problem.

I have been running Linux in business since 1996 and have used to rock solid environment. I have used Slax, RH, COS, SL, F 1 to 18, U10.04 LTS and 12.04LTS, U 10.04 to 13.04. All OS from laptop todesktop to WS to servers. I do know what to do with chips on PCB's.  

Any clues or advices?

---

### Post by sanderj on 2013-06-20
Did you run memtest86 from the GRUB boot menu for a few hours?

---

### Post by harrih on 2013-07-11
I left the memtest running for 14 hours with no problems.

Being more specific: only X seems to crash reverting back to login screen.

The problem occures constantly with number of programs. Uninstalling and installing agaen does not help.

---

### Post by harrih on 2013-07-12
I finally got the system stabile... so far.

I removed everything regarding Unity. Reinstalled login manager and reinstalled nvidia.

It seems that the problems were Unitys libraries. The same software was crashing even on new user and Unity desktop.

More reasons to stay away from Unity...

---

### Post by harrih on 2013-07-12
...and finally VirtualBox crashed X. So far everything was going well using normal software used in our business. 

I have never experienced anything like this behavior with RedHat derivatives.

Any clues?

---

