---
title: "10.10 destop unusable"
date: 2011-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bowserdog on 2011-01-04
I run Ubuntu 10.10 on my main workstation, and have far too much unbacked up data there.  Suddenly, my desktop started "looking different" and the menu items like Applications and Administration have vanished.  I seem to be stuck in some Mozilla Firefox window, because all the screen shows is my normal desktop, but across the top there runs a dark horizontal bar with the Mozilla Firefox logo in the upper left hand corner, no top menus, but the familiar up & down buttons, loudspeaker icon, date & time values, a chat(?) icon, my name, and the system Shutdown, Restart, Hibernate, etc. menu.  I cannot reach the terminal.

All reboots come up this way.  I need to discover how to recover the normal display so I can use this otherwise perfectly functional machine.  If all else fails I need to copy a few critical files to my USB stick, but I cannot reach the terminal.  Can I do it via a live 10.10 demo?

---

### Post by xintera. on 2011-01-04
Terminal shortcut
```
Ctrl + Alt + T
```Try restoring the gnome-panel through terminal 
```
1. gconftool-2 --shutdown

2. gconftool --recursive-unset /apps/panel

3. rm -rf ~/.gconf/apps/panel

4. sudo pkill gnome-panel
```

---

### Post by Bowserdog on 2011-01-04
WOW:  That got it!

Thank you!

---

### Post by Bowserdog on 2011-01-04
Now how can I mark the initial post as "Solved"?

---

### Post by scheuri on 2011-01-04
I am not sure if you can "mark" it as such, but you may edit your title and put a [solved] in front of it....

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-01-04
Hi

To mark as solved use the thread tools option at the top of the page next to search this thread option.

Kind regards

---

### Post by digitography on 2011-01-05
Thanks for this, saved my sanity.
Perhaps one caveat I would add, is print the instructions out first.
because once you have executed the first 2 lines, you lose the panel completely!

---

