---
title: "10.04 - Compositing problems with Docky, no window headers"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jasgor9 on 2010-04-30
Hi. I am a somewhat new user to Ubuntu, and I just upgraded to 10.04 from 9.10. I did not do a clean install, just an upgrade by running "update-manager -d".

Once I upgraded, lots of problems started happening:

- I booted up, and nothing came up but text like in a command prompt; not a splash screen. Is that correct?

- When I logged in, none of my windows had tops (i.e. Window Title, Buttons for minimize, maximize, and close). I changed the theme and turned on the max graphical effects, and that fixed it. (by the way, I know my graphics card can handle it because that is how it was set up on 9.10)

- ...Then, I took off the bottom panel and added Docky. Once I added my icons to it, I restarted, and then the window headers were once again gone, and Docky popped up a message in the top right saying it needed Composite support turned on (i.e. Metacity or Compiz). I turned it on in Metacity (I also have Compiz installed), but nothing changed. So now I have no tops to my windows and have to resort to ALT+F4 to close windows, etc, and I have a huge black rectangle taking up the lower 1/4 of my screen that is just black, with Docky in it...it isn't just a border around it like some other posts have said, but rather takes up almost half my screen.

What can be done to fix these issues? Thanks!

---

### Post by nuwave on 2010-04-30
ah i think i have the same issues but i get a message saying "Your window manger does not support the show desktop button, or you are not running a window manager". Im running 10.04 on a Dell Mini 10v it was working fine at install but it just started to give me these issues. i havent found a solution yet but when I chose regular GNOME or Netbook Edition 2D it works fine other that the desktop button option in GNOME desktop.

---

### Post by nuwave on 2010-05-01
ok i played around with several things and i found that compiz was acting weird so maybe its some compiz bug creating the problem

---

### Post by memod on 2010-05-01
I would like to report that I also have the same problem while booting up. I try to boot up and there's no splash screen... I believe I saw a nice looking one in  the RC version, not sure if this is meant to happen or not (probably not lol)

also I'm not sure if this is related, but, after I upgraded, I had a small problem with trying to use JRE stuff like picture upload on facebook... it kept asking me to install JRE 6.20 even though it was already installed, i fixed it by uninstalling OpenJRE, but I don't think that came with the upgrade... but if it did and someone else is having this problem, try what I did.

---

### Post by jasgor9 on 2010-05-01
Update: When I log on, the effects in the Themes window are set to None EVERY time I log in. Then, I go into the themes manager and turn it to the highest setting, and everything is perfectly fine...but the next time I login it is back to none. By the way, I am using CompizFusion to do this. Thanks for the support!

*** And, like nuwave said, my Compiz is acting up. I turned on desktop cube and now its off. Hmm... ***

---

### Post by nuwave on 2010-05-01
> **jasgor9 said:**
> Update: When I log on, the effects in the Themes window are set to None EVERY time I log in. Then, I go into the themes manager and turn it to the highest setting, and everything is perfectly fine...but the next time I login it is back to none. By the way, I am using CompizFusion to do this. Thanks for the support!

*** And, like nuwave said, my Compiz is acting up. I turned on desktop cube and now its off. Hmm... ***

I was having the same problems did u happen to get that compiz version from the "ubuntu software center" because i got it from there and it was giving me a whole mess of problems. After I removed it i got compiz(the ubuntu supported one) from synaptic then everything was right as rain.

---

### Post by jasgor9 on 2010-05-02
Yes, I do have the one from the Ubuntu Software Center. I will install the other one instead. Thanks!

---

### Post by itsjustarumour on 2010-05-02
> **jasgor9 said:**
> I have a huge black rectangle taking up the lower 1/4 of my screen that is just black, with Docky in it...

I had the same thing with using Docky on Karmic 9.10 Server edition (32-bit), with Compiz and the NVidia driver.  If I find a fix I'll post it up here.

---

### Post by jasgor9 on 2010-05-02
Okay. I just installed Compiz from Synaptic, but nothing changed. Seems as though it won't work unless Compiz Fusion is turned on, but it always goes back to none when I login.

---

### Post by Owen.C93 on 2010-05-02
Go to sytem-preferences-startup applications

Add a new one, name it whatever but put "xcompmgr" in the command and then set it to run at startup.

---

### Post by jasgor9 on 2010-05-02
I just tried that, and nothing different happened.

---

### Post by sinisterstuf on 2010-05-04
> I restarted, and then the window headers were once again gone, and Docky  popped up a message in the top right saying it needed Composite support  turned on

I had the same problem as you (just I don't have docky) and I solved it with your help (the, set visual effects to max, thanks!), so after you log in you set your pc up with visual settings max and all your compiz settingsand docky and stuff exactly how you want it, close all other applications that you don't want Ubuntu to start with and then:
**System > Preferences > Startup Applications > Options *(tab)* > [Remember Currently-Running Application]* (button)***
hopefully that will start up compiz and docky and stuff as you like it each time you log on and no more issues with 'no windows manager and stuff', it works for me! =)

---

### Post by jasgor9 on 2010-05-04
Great idea! I'll try that.

---

### Post by jasgor9 on 2010-05-04
sinisterstuf, your solution worked like a charm! Everything works fine now. Thank you!


For anyone reading this with the same problem:

To solve compositing problems with Docky in Ubuntu 10.04, Just go to 'Startup Applications' in the System menu, and click "remember currently running applications".

---

### Post by sinisterstuf on 2010-05-06
You're welcome!

Do you think it should be reported as a bug?

---

### Post by jasgor9 on 2010-05-06
Being a newbie, I am not sure...Maybe someone more experienced would know better than me.

---

### Post by sqbing on 2010-05-12
i had the same problem
for compiz,i suggest you install the compiz-fusion-icon,and add it to the startup menu. someone else said, they had to right click the icon ,then click the "Reload window smanager" to fix the problem. but i just add the startup and everything seems to  be OK.
docky...well, without the "compositing", it works normally too.

---

### Post by drabzz on 2010-05-13
@sinisterstuf,

I had the same problem with Docky/Compositing and it is now working normally.

Many thanks.

---

### Post by aswinarjun99 on 2011-04-10
Thanks a lot sinister.. I've been looking for a solution for months..

---

