---
title: "GUI doesn't start"
date: 2009-08-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-08-06
Well I just restarted my pc there about 10 minutes ago and when it rebooted it didn't load the gui and instead went to a prompt asking me for a user and password, and then I found myself logged into the terminal with no gui. Anyone ideas what could be wrong?

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2009-08-06
What did you do before rebooting?
Any error messages?
What happens if you type
```
startx
```

---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-08-06
Edit: [double post]

---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-08-06
OK, I typed startx and it booted the GUI so Im posting this from linux now. However there are problems such as terminal is not working, sound is not working...and obviously there is still a problem in that I dont want to have to type startx every time I boot the machine.


The only system related stuff I did was mount windows on to /media/windows by adding a line to fstab and then using the command "mount -a". I also installed LAMP using package manager and selecting Edit->Mark packages by task, and selecting LAMP. There was a problem when installing this so I had to uninstall it and then reinstall.

I would really like if I could fix this without a reinstall as I bought a new machine a few days ago and spent today setting everything up on it, I hope I dont have to do it all again.

---

### Post by martinbaselier on 2009-08-06
Is gdm installed ? That's the login program. You can also check your history in synaptic (the package manager) to check if certain packages have been removed.

---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-08-06
just checked and gdm isn't installed, Im installing it now. I wonder did some extra packages get deleted when I removed the failed lamp server installation.

Also here is what it says when I boot -

Starting...
Loading, please wat........
19+0 records in
19_0 records out
kinit: name_go_dev_t(dev/disk/by-uuid/ec66ac53-2cfc-4b56-33fdss419e) = dev(8,5)
kinit: trying to resume from dev/disk/by-uuid/ec66ac53-2cfc-4b56-33fdss419e
kinit: no resume image, doing normal boot
Linux Mint 7 Gloria - Main Edition john-desktop tty1john-desktop login:

---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-08-06
ok, since installing gdm it now boots the gui fine. The sound and terminal are also back working. There may be another issue tho, just want to see if i can sort it myself first.

---

### Post by martinbaselier on 2009-08-06
That message is normal. It means you turned off the computer and did not use sleepmode or whatever it's called. (save image of current state to disk and turn off pc, to be able to resume later at the same point)

You really ought to check your history in synaptic (file -> history) to see if you removed more.

---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-08-06
ok well i checked synaptic and the only thing that was removed today which was libgd2-noxpm during my LAMP installation problems. I dont know could that have caused the login screen to disappear?? But in any case the login screen is working fine now that Ive installed gdm.

The new issue though is that in trying to fix the original problem I went into grub bootloader and selected 'try to auto repair graphics problems'. Since then when I log into ubuntu/mint now it doesn't seem to be using my nvidia graphics card/driver as the screen is displayed in low resolution and no desktop effects can be enabled. When I click Display in the menu to change the resolution I get the following message - You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. 

So how can I fix this?

---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-08-06
Here is what is in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file



# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by ltwinner on 2009-08-06
fixed. went into control center->hardware drivers, enabled nvidia driver, everythings working fine now :D

---

