---
title: "Ipod refuses to mount"
date: 2007-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SmashingTool on 2007-05-23
This morning, i plugged my Ipod in for the first time and had no issues at all. 2 hours later, I tried again and suddenly i'm getting an error saying "You are not privileged to mount the volume 'CLOUDY'." (Cloudy being the name of my windows formatted Ipod). I have searched all over google and these forums, and tried solutions related to my problem, but i never found another instance of this happening. 

None of the music programs can see it, and when i try using the script 

sudo mount /dev/sdb2 /media/iPod

I get a message saying
 
mount: mount point /media/iPod does not exist
 
And as far as i can tell, i cant create said mount point. What do i do?

---

### Post by robrmd9 on 2007-05-23
If it says the mount point does not exist, you can do "mkdir /media/iPod" to create the mount point.  If it gives you a permissions problem add a "sudo" to the beginning of that, then try again.

But it should not be necessary to mount an iPod manually like that.  Check to make sure you don't have it added in your /etc/fstab also.

Also, do a "sudo apt-get install ipod" to make sure you have the appropriate software installed so your iPod will be detected correctly.

---

### Post by SmashingTool on 2007-05-23
The first thing mounted the ipod, but only enough to get into the filesystem. Amarok still wont recognize it. sudo apt-get install ipod installed a bunch of stuff, but doesnt seem to make any difference. I unplugged the ipod and replugged it in, i got the same old messages about not having permissions. When i go to the properties, it says i only have read-only privileges, and im not able to change that through that interface...

Edit:

My fstab file looks like this:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=e107df14-4907-472b-a5da-23bcd42f4ec7 /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda1
# /dev/sda6
# /dev/sda5
UUID=681ea3a7-5633-4ad1-ad7e-340d19a11bbd none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda6   /media/sda6   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sdb2   /media/sdb2   vfat    iocharset=utf8,umask=000  0    0
/dev/sda1   /media/sda1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions


I believe that all of those listed partitions are just part of the hard drive, which is partitioned into a windows partition, an ubuntu partition, a fat32 partition for common files, and a swap partition

Edit2:  And now, even stranger, after using the command you gave to mount it, the ipod seems mounted(as i said, i can browse the files), but if right click and hit eject, it tells me that it cant unmount it since its not mounted in the first place

---

### Post by SmashingTool on 2007-05-23
Well, I got home and tried it on another Ipod, and i am getting the same problems. So its definitely a problem with the OS.

---

### Post by robrmd9 on 2007-05-23
Before you blame Ubuntu, try using Rhythmbox or another iPod-capable audio player other than Amarok, and see if (without manual mounting) it detects your iPod.  If it doesn't, there is a larger problem, but if it works then you know it's not the OS and is indeed a specific config you need for Amarok.

As for umounting your iPod, be sure to do it through Nautilus rather than Amarok.  Also, be sure to restart Amarok each time you toy with mounting it.

But make sure you try Rhythmbox, because that should work without any extra config.

---

### Post by SmashingTool on 2007-05-23
Well, first, let me be clear. I wasnt 'blaming' Ubuntu per say, thus far I love the OS, and this is the first true problem i have encountered with it. I ran it on my old laptop for about 3 weeks before a preexisting hardware issue that had been slowly getting worse for  2 months finally killed the computer completely. During that time period, I had no issues whatsoever, and my ipod worked great on it. So i know this is a weird fluke, and all I'm really concerned with is fixing it, since I will almost certainly stick with ubuntu despite this.

Ok, well as far as I understand setting up the ipod and mounting it are 2 different things? I have been dealing with "mounting" and "unmounting" it in the in Places-->Computer, although I've been trying to get Amarok, Rhythembox, and Gtkpod to notice it all the while with no luck. When I try on Rhythembox without forcing the mount, it doesnt see anything. When i force it, it does see it, although neither other program can. I never tried unmounting it in Amarok, since Amarok never admits its mounted anyway. 

Oh, and what is Nautilus? I have looked for it in my list of apps, along with the lists in Automatix and add/remove...

---

### Post by robrmd9 on 2007-05-23
In Rhythmbox, make sure you enable the iPod plugin.  (Edit->Preferences or Plugins or something)  Then see if your iPod comes up (because it should).  Gtkpod is kind of sketchy, but Rhythmbox offers easy to use iPod functionality, where you just drag and drop files into it.

Nautilus is the default file manager in Ubuntu, so when you go to Places->Computer it brings up a Nautilus window (so it's like Windows explorer).  

Amarok is probably having issues finding where your iPod is mounted, which I assume is why you tried to manually mount it to a specific directory (/media/iPod).  Not having a lot of Amarok experience (it's a KDE app, although a lot of GNOME users love it) I can't help you there.  But keep in mind that mount points (like most other things in Linux) are case-sensitive, so Amarok may look in /media/ipod by default, and if your ipod is mounted in /media/iPod, it won't see it so you would have to set Amarok to look in /media/iPod.

But try the iPod plugin in Rhythmbox, because it should do what you want for now.

---

### Post by medicineman24 on 2007-05-23
ok I had a similar problem, but I am also a noob.  What I did was connect the ipod to the computer, restart ubuntu, go into "Computer," right clicked the ipod, changed mount point to simply IPOD under the drive tab.  Then using gtkpod, i made a folder called IPOD in the mount options field.  After restarting gtkpod and "load" ing ipod it connected fine.

---

### Post by SmashingTool on 2007-05-31
Well, still no luck with any of these attempts. Anyone have any good ideas?

oh, and would the ipod not showing up in /etc/fstab be a cause or just a symptom for this?

---

### Post by tylerjroach on 2007-06-06
I am having the same problem with this and I have posted this and no one has known the cause. Did you ever get yours to work? I have tried for hours but I cannot get it to work. Anyone please help with our problem

---

### Post by tylerjroach on 2007-06-06
Thank you for you response. I will keep this in mind if I ever have this problem again. I decided to do a clean install and my ipod worked immediately. The previous Feisty installation I had was only about a week old so I dont know what went wrong in installing my iPod. I do remember that my ipod was plugged in during the first installation. Could this have anything to do with my problem. My second install, i didn't have my ipod plugged in and it is working great. Just a thought.

edit: I posted this to the wrong thread. Sorry

---

### Post by fugative on 2007-07-04
I don't think this is just a fluke, i've seen too many posts with the same problem.:(

my usb stick mounts and pops up on the desktop but my ipod mini and my phone (se k750) will not, both of these worked without any problem in edgy but after a clean install of feisty they don't show up anywhere. it is not a rhythmbox or amarok issue it is a OS problem. 
the thing is noone has any answers.
i could do without doing a fresh install.

Dave

---

### Post by twright on 2007-12-25
have you enabled disk usage (from a windows PC)?

i had to connect mine to a USB 1.0 port before it would work

Amarok doesn't support it as the database file has been encrypted, luckily some clever people have already cracked this so an update fixing this should be released very soon (see ipodminusitunes.blogspot.com)

it is working fine in my XP virtual machine which i'm running within itunes

i also did sudo apt-get install ipod, don't know if that helped

---

### Post by twright on 2008-01-11
it has been fixed (see link in signature)

---

