---
title: "10.04 - Can't open Synaptics"
date: 2010-06-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-06-29
About a week ago, I installed 10.04 onto my shared computer from an ordered disc and starting from two or three days ago, a bunch of problems have arisen in regards to Administrative programs not opening. I decided to check if my brother had changed my account from being an Administrator to being a General user (I don't know if that's the correct name), but when I click on Users and Groups, an error box pops up saying that "The configuration could not be loaded" and "An unknown error occurred". As the topic title says, the Synaptics doesn't open either. I've tried installing things from the Ubuntu Software Centre, but that doesn't work. I can open the Update Manager, but clicking on "Install Updates" doesn't do anything except pretty much refresh the Manager. My brother says that the same things are happening to him and his account was created as an Administrator as well. Also, when Shut Down is clicked, the computer simply logs off, then it has to be manually turned off, and my external hard drive isn't being detected. Finally, I've been considering just reinstalling from the disc if none of this gets fixed. Does anyone know how to solve these problems, or should I just reinstall?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2010-06-29
Try launching Synaptic from a terminal window and post the output:
```
gksudo synaptic
```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-29
If you type "groups" in a terminal, does it show you are a member of "admin"?

If not, boot into the recovery mode, and run this command to become a member of the admin group (using your username of course).
```
adduser *username* admin
```

If you are a member of "admin", try running a command from the terminal using "sudo" (e.g. "sudo apt-get update") and tell us what error messages are generated.

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-06-29
@mikewhatever: It starts to load the Synaptics (says Starting Administrative Application in the taskbar), but then it just stops.

#drs305: The output says "michael adm dialout fax cdrom floppy tape audio dip video plugdev fuse lpadmin netdev admin sambashare". I don't exactly know what that means. I decided to enter "sudo apt-get update" into the Terminal and the output given was "sudo: must be setuid root". Not sure what that means either, but I'm guessing something to do with the group "root" or something like that.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-29
The output of the command you ran shows that you belong to the "admin group:
> michael adm dialout fax cdrom floppy tape audio dip video plugdev fuse lpadmin netdev **admin** sambashare


You have a permission problem that can be solved via the recovery mode. Reboot to the recovery mode and then run the following commands:
```

chown root:root /usr/bin/sudo
chmod 4111 /usr/bin/sudo
chmod 0440 /etc/sudoers

```

This should reset the permissions to the default settings and restore your ability to use *sudo*.

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-06-29
Newbie question, but how do I reboot into recovery mode? I rebooted, but other than showing the computer model screen (I've got a Dell, so it showed the Dell logo screen), it just went straight to the login screen. I noticed something about the Session currently being GNOME, and that there was an option for Failsafe GNOME. Is that it?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-29
at end of bios process, hold "shift" key down to see the grub menu, then select the 2d line (recovery) to boot

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-06-29
After choosing the second line, a "Recovery mode" box appears with a list of options. The one saying "failsafe graphics mode" looks like the one that I would choose. Am I right?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-29
Choose the option to drop to the root shell, which will take you to a command prompt (terminal) where you can run the commands.

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-06-29
After running each of the commands (the chown and 2 chmod ones), it said that changing permissions was not permitted.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-30
> **michael91 said:**
> After running each of the commands (the chown and 2 chmod ones), it said that changing permissions was not permitted.

Here is another possibility - a corrupted *sudoers* file. Here is a page that attempts to repair the sudoers file (case 2), as well as other "sudo" problems.
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/fixsudo]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/fixsudo")

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-06-30
Tried case 2 and the output was:

sudo: /etc/sudoers.d/README is mode 0777, should be 0440
>>> /etc/sudoers: /etc/sudoers.d/README near line 24 <<<
sudo: parse error in /etc/sudoers near line 24
sudo: no valid sudoers sources found, quitting

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-30
Sudo doesn't like your /etc/sudoers file. Normally the line it is complaining about is commented out (i.e. begins with a # symbol, which means it is disregarded). If this line was altered, we can try to set it back to the original state.

From the recovery mode, are you able to open the sudoers file with this command:
```
nano /etc/sudoers
```

If so, look at line 24 (or the line that references /etc/sudoers.d) and make it look like this:
> #includedir /etc/sudoers.d

Save the file with: CTRL-X, then Y. ENTER.

Reboot and see if that fixes the error.

Note: Since you don't seem able to change the permissions at the moment, we'll ignore the "0440" error message for now.

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-06-30
Just checked and that line is already as you said. Also, off-topic, but out of curiosity, what language does Ubuntu run on? I've seen ' used for commenting in a program called MATLAB and % used in Visual Basic, but haven't seen # used.

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-07-02
I decided to go back to try 
```

nano /etc/sudoers
```

and check if I was right in saying that the

```
#includedir /etc/sudoers.d
```

was as it should be and was correct, but the thing that I'm writing this message about is to do with other lines. I noticed that there were lines that said

```
% sudo ALL=(ALL) ALL
```

and

```
% admin ALL=(ALL) ALL
```

however there was a line that was in a different format, namely 

```
root[TAB]ALL=(ALL) ALL
```

where [TAB] is the Tab key. Should it be in that format or should it be as

```
% root ALL=(ALL) ALL
```

?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-07-02
My *sudoers* file shows:
> root    ALL=(ALL) ALL
which is the normal format.

Also, it would be better to use the command:
```
sudo visudo
```
for editing the file. This will allow the system to check for the proper syntax of the lines before it allows you to save the file. Recent versions of Ubuntu use *nano* for editing *sudoers* but also gives you the error-checking protection.

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-07-02
I tried using sudo visudo, but it didn't let me, so I used nano /etc/sudoers and changed the [TAB] to a space.

Then, I went back to that psychocats site and made sure I copied character-by-character the code given in Case 2 (in case I missed something last time). Tried a few sudo codes and the output is still the same as before.

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-07-03
Now not even the Update Manager is working. It comes up with an error saying that it 

> Could not initialize the package information

because 

> An unresolvable problem occurred while initialising the package information.

Please report this bug against the 'update-manager' package and include the following error message:

'E:Could not open file /var/cache/apt/srcpkgcache.bin - open (13: Permission denied), E:The package lists or status file could not be parsed or opened.'

Could the permission mentioned in the paragraph directly above be related to the error creating the sudo problem? Also, where do I report that bug?

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-07-04
It's bad double-posting, let alone triple-posting, but the Update Manager now opens, but it still can't install anything.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-07-04
If it's a bad lists file, now that you can open UM, go to UM's Settings and note which repositories under each tab are enabled. Then deselect them all and in a terminal run:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
Since you don't have any repositories, that should clear the list. Then reopen and renable all the previous repositories and run the same command again.

If that doesn't work, you may have a bad status file. Since your problem has been around a while, the backup copy is probably corrupt as well, you can try it:
```

sudo cp /var/lib/dpkg/status /var/lib/dpkg/status.bad
sudo cp /var/lib/dpkg/status-old /var/lib/dpkg/status
sudo apt-get update
```

If nothing changes, revert back to the original status file:
```

sudo cp /var/lib/dpkg/status /var/lib/dpkg/status.old1
sudo mv /var/lib/dpkg/status /var/lib/dpkg/status-old
sudo mv /var/lib/dpkg.bad /var/lib/dpkg/status
sudo apt-get update

```

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-07-04
The settings don't open, and even if they did, sudo still doesn't work. My brother came up with an idea. He thinks that because your sudoers file works fine, if you were to upload the file somewhere on the Net, or if a fine sudoers file were to already be online, then I could download it and replace the faulty one with the fine downloaded one. Would that work, if allowed?

---

### Post by michael91 on 2010-07-05
I've discovered that when I put the installation disc into the DVD drive and boot up the system, after going to "Try Ubuntu 10.04", I can move my files from the computer to my external hard drive, so I'm gonna do that, then just reinstall 10.04. Thanks for all your effort.

---

