---
title: "what the hell is this crap, i thought linux didnt have attackers..."
date: 2008-09-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eival on 2008-09-04
[IMG]http://i33.tinypic.com/rk7rt1.png[/IMG]

this is the 2nd time this week ive seen this popup, i think both times was while viewing myspace.

---

### Post by knattlhuber on 2008-09-04
This is bogus. Just ignore it. They just want you to click on their popup.

---

### Post by Pro-reason on 2008-09-04
> **eival said:**
> 

this is the 2nd time this week ive seen this popup, i think both times was while viewing myspace.

That is an advertising pop-up.  MySpace is full of that sort of crap.  It has nothing to do with Linux.  Tweak your browser to stop pop-ups (Firefox is good at that).

---

### Post by eival on 2008-09-04
> **knattlhuber said:**
> This is bogus. Just ignore it. They just want you to click on their popup.

i hope you're right, its just that ive never had ad-pops up in my 3+years using opera so thats why i thought it was a real intrusion, who ever created it deserves an award

---

### Post by Pro-reason on 2008-09-04
> **eival said:**
> i hope you're right, its just that ive never had ad-pops up in my 3+years using opera so thats why i thought it was a real intrusion, who ever created it deserves an award

They deserve to be locked up like other spamming and swindling scum.

Anyway, the title (“Javascript”) and the mention of a commercial website address show that this is an advertising pop-up generated by the Javascript on a website.  If it were a message from the operating system, it would look very different.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2008-09-04
Yep, that's a classic example of the best way to get you to install malware onto a computer, social engineering.

Although on a side note there are cross platform attacks that can happen through flash, javacript, and java. It's a good idea to secure your browser against these, although I haven't seen anything serious someone may find a significant exploit in flash/java/javascript and your butt is on the line 'till adobe/sun fixes their mistake. 

For firefox I use an addon called noscript, it blocks all scripts/java/flash unless I whitelist the site, I can even only allow certain scripts (ie myspace apps want like 4 scripts to run most of them created by notorius add sites, only one script is required for the app to work). I'm sure opera has simliar functionality.

---

### Post by mkvnmtr on 2008-09-04
Why am I seeing this pop up in this forum. I am on Ubuntu Firefox with scripts blocked? I never see this kind of thing.

---

### Post by knattlhuber on 2008-09-04
> **eival said:**
> i hope you're right, its just that ive never had ad-pops up in my 3+years using opera so thats why i thought it was a real intrusion, who ever created it deserves an award

I think it's not a real window but just another CSS layer. That's how it got past the pop-up blocker.

---

### Post by Orfintain on 2008-09-04
> **mkvnmtr said:**
> Why am I seeing this pop up in this forum. I am on Ubuntu Firefox with scripts blocked? I never see this kind of thing.

lol dido

---

### Post by Unanimated on 2008-09-04
> **jerome1232 said:**
> For firefox I use an addon called noscript, it blocks all scripts/java/flash unless I whitelist the site, I can even only allow certain scripts (ie myspace apps want like 4 scripts to run most of them created by notorius add sites, only one script is required for the app to work). I'm sure opera has simliar functionality.
Although NoScript is a great security measure for Ubuntu, I wouldn't use it. I used it for a while, and I thought it was really annoying. I do use a lot of flash stuff, so that is probably why. I wish they would make it a little more.. um.. graphical.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2008-09-04
> **Unanimated said:**
> Although NoScript is a great security measure for Ubuntu, I wouldn't use it. I used it for a while, and I thought it was really annoying. I do use a lot of flash stuff, so that is probably why. I wish they would make it a little more.. um.. graphical.

Yeah I could see that, I frequent only a few sites so white listing them is no problem for me. If I visited a lot of different sites that required scripts I would get annoyed too. :)

I just noticed noscript doesn't block flash, just java/javascrpt.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-09-05
> I just noticed noscript doesn't block flash, just java/javascrpt.

To block flash, use [Adblock]("https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/10"), another Firefox add-on.

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-09-05
I say PEBKAC

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2008-09-05
> **hyper_ch said:**
> I say PEBKAC

Usually
:)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2008-09-05
Move along, nothing to see here. lol That's myspace for you.

---

### Post by pmlxuser on 2008-09-05
Well mother nature teaches us a lesson or two. Organism tend to adapt to the enviroment to survive. the HIV Virus Mutate and thus its able to confuse advanced scientist. Actually every organism that have the ability to mutate has a better chance of survival.

SCAMMERS, Virus creators and crackers are not stupid they also Mutate and so i would not be suprised if in the near future even linux is intensively attacked..

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-09-05
> **pmlxuser said:**
> so i would not be suprised if in the near future even linux is intensively attacked..

I would be surprised if that happens...

---

### Post by Liviu-Theodor on 2008-09-05
The pop-up images appear because the webdevelopper assumed that everyone use Windows (after all, the message is about installing an Windows program). And of course Linux has attackers, and seeing as Linux is on most of the webservers (followed by BSD and Unix), with Windows virtually non-existent there (even Microsoft recognized they are using BSD on their webservers), and the Internet working, despite all that kind of attacks, I can say Linux is quite sure, relatively to outside attackers.

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-09-05
Is it popping up while you're not browsing the internet?

---

