---
title: "5.04 &gt; 5.10"
date: 2005-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Heather06 on 2005-10-14
Can this be accomplished on an existing 5.04 installation? How?

---

### Post by Chris Cromer on 2005-10-14
Yes this can be accomplished, steps to upgrade are listed here:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BreezyUpgrade](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BreezyUpgrade)

---

### Post by Muhammad on 2005-10-14
It is possible, just:

```
sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list
```

Then Replace all the "hoary" occurances in the document with "breezy". ;)

---

### Post by Chris Cromer on 2005-10-14
Muhammad it's more than just that. This also needs to be typed.
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

But I recommend reading the stuff in my link in my first post rather than doing what he and I just posted, simply for the fact that you need to do a few things first in preparation of the upgrade process.

---

### Post by oddflux on 2005-10-14
I haven't tried the upgrade, how long does it usually take?

---

### Post by Chris Cromer on 2005-10-14
Well if you do the update via the internet rather than cd, it can take a little while... especially if you don't have fast internet. This is simply because it has to download all the packages before it installs them.

With the cd... not sure since I did the internet one. Took me about an hour or 2 but I have a cable modem, so I have fast downloads. The installation went by pretty quickly, I left my computer and did other things during the upgrade.

---

### Post by br00tal on 2005-10-14
It'll take an especially longer time now if you're doing the online method, as the repositories are very overwhelmed currently with people upgrading to Breezy.  I still suggest the online way, as it's the most economical, but if you must, the next best way I think would be to download (via BitTorrent) the Breezy DVD (if you have a DVD-R drive) and add that to your sources.list file, and update the distro via that disk.  Just my two cents.

---

### Post by heart_reaver on 2005-10-14
Well i whould recomend that to install 5.10 relase copy fresh. As my 5.04 crached 4 times when updating by **source.list** method:razz: 

You have to select the method of install 

for more informatio you can use 

[www.ubuntuguide.org](www.ubuntuguide.org)

---

### Post by Heather06 on 2005-10-15
Thanks fellas! I am looking at using a local CD to do the upgrade as outlined in these posts. Hopefully I will not need to reinstall but if I'll at least have a CD on hand if I need to. Thanks again.

H

---

### Post by chaumurky on 2005-10-15
Nice avatar BTW.

---

