---
title: "Hardware Acceleration on AMD Zacate"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bmtphoenix on 2011-04-28
I'm running Ubuntu 11.04 Natty on a MSI E350IA-E45 with the AMD/ATI Zacate chipset, and I'm not being able to get hardware accelerated graphics working.  

I tried installing and activating FGLRX, but it doesn't seem to have solved anything.  There is no hardware acceleration as far as I can tell, and XBMC complains that there's no OpenGL support.  If there's some other way to activate hardware acceleration, I don't know where it is.  I looked around Catalyst, but couldn't find any mention of OpenGL or any way to "turn on" hardware acceleration.  

Then I tried removing FGLRX and reinstalling the xserver-xorg-video-ati drivers as per [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/FglrxInteferesWithRadeonDriver) , but got a black screen on reboot.

Went into the recovery mode, reinstalled FGLRX, and am pretty much back where I started (with a GUI but no hardware acceleration), with no idea how to proceed from here.  I'm especially confused because, from what I have read, the Zacate seems to get along with Natty out of the box for most people.

I am a noob to the command line, but not scared of it.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks.

---

### Post by GnuSense on 2011-05-06
Slightly different story for me, I couldn't get fglrx to work with Zacate, either the repository version or the slightly updated one from a Natty PPA repository ubuntu-x-swat, 2:8.841-0ubuntu1~xup.  Installing AMD's 11.4 driver downloaded directly from their web site also fetched me a black screen, couldn't even CTRL+ALT+F# to a terminal emulator, had to do a hard reboot. BTW, I did use a xorg.conf generated by aticonfig.  Near as I can figure the proprietary driver simply isn't working with the HD 6310 at this point.  BTW, stripping out the radeon/ati open source driver didn't help.

I was hoping the proprietary driver would improve video playback, but I don't know if that is even the case.  720p plays (barely) but 1080p is useless, at least for me with the radeon driver.  Also, in KDE desktop effects suspend themselves whenever I do much of anything, not a big deal, but an indicator of an inadequate driver for my hardware.

---

### Post by jaimefortega on 2011-09-07
I had the same problem, but i use "nomodeset" in the grub menu, just press e when it shows the menu to edit and add "nomodeset" at the end of the linux line, then press ctrl+x. 3D acceleration works, but it could be better.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2011-09-07
I got Ontario C50 on my netbook, no h/w acceleration with vlc yet, tried the catalysthacks repo and the xvba file, no go so for now, I have given up and living without h/w acceleration for videos or flash.

---

### Post by GnuSense on 2011-09-08
FGLRX is now working for me on 11.04, I still can't play 1080p worth a damn, but 720 seems fine & compiz is working about as well as can be expected (considering Ubuntu's current Unity-inspired support of the package). One issue I don't know if any one else is happening, I can only start TTY #1 for virtual terminals (though for all I know that is some other Ubuntu-inspired cleverness in action).

Debian testing Zacate support is still hiney, and seems to actually be regressing with the 3.0 series of kernels.  I've failed multiple times to install fglrx and radeon support is crummy. About similar to fglrx on Ubuntu for video playback but random freezes in the last month, dropped ethernet upon resume from hibernation, trying to use virtual terminals or logging out gives me a permanently split screen with the left-right boundary in the middle of the monitor, no compiz, and lately even the desktop is becoming laggy & unresponsive.  Debian was my normal main OS, but wheezy has lived up to its name and I've moved all my work over to Natty, at least until I don't have to randomly use the Magic SysRq keys periodically in testing.

At this point I'd think real hard before advising Linux users to buy AMD's Fusion APU hardware, which is a pity, I've always preferred AMD because it was better value for money, was supposed to be more open-source friendly (than Nvidia, anyway) and I wanted to keep a second player in the market. But AMD doesn't seem to care about Linux users too much with this generation and frankly I'd almost always had better luck with Nvidia than fglrx. Too bad, I've been looking with longing at a C-50 netbook, 11.6" screen, "8" hour battery, $260, supposedly nice graphics acceleration, but who wants to fight lousy driver support?  Maybe by the time krishna/wichita hits the market they will have their open-source house in order but by then I'm afraid Intel's Cedar Trail/Ultrabook and ARM Tegra 2, etc. will squeeze Fusion out of the market.

---

### Post by MaZZly on 2012-01-25
With XBMC and XvBA hardware acceleration is fully possible, i have a E350M1 and it plays fullHD content without any problems.

I have written a guide how to get it working here:
[http://typecast.co/guide/building-a-cheap-htpc-capable-of-full-hd-and-surround/](http://typecast.co/guide/building-a-cheap-htpc-capable-of-full-hd-and-surround/)

---

