---
title: "S3 Prosavage km266/Kl266 3d accel prob!!!"
date: 2005-01-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by telmo on 2005-01-16
hi everyone, i need help to configure my vga card!!!
I tried everything to accelerate my card, but nothing!!! i now that it is compatible, and it is possible!!! please, if anyone nows how, please help me!!!

( I don't have 3d accelaration and it is sad  :sad: )
thx in advance!!!!

here is my lspci
0000:00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. P/KN266 Host Bridge
0000:00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8633 [Apollo Pro266 AGP]
0000:00:09.0 CardBus bridge: ENE Technology Inc CB710 Cardbus Controller (rev 01)
0000:00:09.1 FLASH memory: ENE Technology Inc CB710 Memory Card Reader Controller
0000:00:0b.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. IEEE 1394 Host Controller (rev 80)
0000:00:10.0 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80)
0000:00:10.1 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 80)
0000:00:10.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. USB 2.0 (rev 82)
0000:00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8235 ISA Bridge
0000:00:11.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
0000:00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 50)
0000:00:11.6 Communication controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. Intel 537 [AC97 Modem] (rev 80)
0000:00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 74)
0000:01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]
0000:02:00.0 Network controller: Intersil Corporation: Unknown device 3886 (rev 01)

and i forgot my XF86config-4

# XF86Config-4 (XFree86 X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the XF86Config-4 manual page.
# (Type "man XF86Config-4" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xfree86 package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xfree86
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands as root:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 /etc/X11/XF86Config-4.custom
#   md5sum /etc/X11/XF86Config-4 >/var/lib/xfree86/XF86Config-4.md5sum
#   dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Speedo"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"speedo"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"v4l"
	Load	"vbe"
	Load	"xtt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xfree86"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"pt"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"yes"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]"
	Driver		"savage"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
	Option		"HWCursor"		"false"
        Option          "UseBIOS" "off"
        Option          "LCDClock" "220MHz"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

### Post by daniels on 2005-01-16
3D acceleration for your card is currently very experimental, and not even in Hoary, our development branch.

---

### Post by telmo on 2005-01-17
Ok...
I posted that to a friend and i'm quite sure he doesn't care if it's experimental or not :)

So if anyone could help he would be apreciated ;)

---

### Post by daniels on 2005-01-17
I'll look into it, but it's a large and constantly-changing patch, so it's a pretty low priority while I have other major things to do.

---

### Post by telmo on 2005-01-17
does anyone put this vga with acell???
in the website [http://www.probo.com/timr/savage40.html](http://www.probo.com/timr/savage40.html), have a driver to acell the vga!!! but with me didn't work or i made something wrong???? any help!!!! :confused:

---

### Post by telmo on 2005-01-17
mannnnnn....really need some ligths to this!!!!!!!!
i configure download install unistall, but nothing!!! anyone with have this vga working?????

---

### Post by mmuller on 2005-01-18
[QUOTE=daniels]I'll look into it, but it's a large and constantly-changing patch, so it's a pretty low priority while I have other major things to do.[/QUOTE]


I too would love to see the S3 Savage getting at least some rudimentary OpenGL support under Ubuntu. This distro has managed to sway me back into 'nux again in a serious way. 

I run the distro on my laptop and this has the S3 chipset so some GL and hardware MPEG would be an awesome addition to this system.

I believe that very many other laptop uses would also agree about getting this into hoary if at all possible.

My laptop is at you disposal for testing purposes... just let me know what you want me to do

---

### Post by daniels on 2005-01-18
I'll work on it, but at the moment, my TODO list is huge, with lots of high-priority items, and the Savage DRI stuff is a lot of work for (compared to the other things I have to do) not much payoff.  It might be a Bendy thing (release after Hoary).

---

### Post by mmuller on 2005-01-21
[QUOTE=daniels]I'll work on it, but at the moment, my TODO list is huge, with lots of high-priority items, and the Savage DRI stuff is a lot of work for (compared to the other things I have to do) not much payoff.  It might be a Bendy thing (release after Hoary).[/QUOTE]

Therefore I am already looking forward to 'bendy'

 O:)

---

### Post by telmo on 2005-01-24
[QUOTE=daniels]I'll work on it, but at the moment, my TODO list is huge, with lots of high-priority items, and the Savage DRI stuff is a lot of work for (compared to the other things I have to do) not much payoff.  It might be a Bendy thing (release after Hoary).[/QUOTE]

We're counting on you Daniel ;)

---

### Post by telmo on 2005-01-24
daniel, still waiting!!! i made a research, and some guys use the probo driver and have 3d acell but i can't....grrrrrrr, please daniel put us Happy!!!!! :mrgreen:

---

### Post by alex-gurgel on 2005-01-25
I think that's possible to install 3D accell in Savage ( KM266 ) video cards ( even in on-board ones ). 
I've write an article, in portuguese ( my native language ), about that but it's for SuSE Personal 9.1. It's in my personal page, at this point: [http://alexandregurgel.multiply.com/journal/item/2](http://http://alexandregurgel.multiply.com/journal/item/2) .
I think that the problem is find an patch that's enable DRM in kernel ( SuSE always have this patch, in rpm format, to download and install ).

I don't know how to make this patch, so if somebody knows that....

Or we can find this patch in Google.

But just one question: to apply this patch ( and try to make it works ) I have to install kernel-source ? And were I'll find that package ?

---

### Post by uksuperdude on 2005-03-23
Not to dredge up too old a thread here, but I am new to Ubuntu (not linux tho) and am trying to get this working on my work laptop.

Rather than ask why its not working or not done yet, I thought I would ask how I can help.
If you have a moment to give me a start in the right direction, it would be appreciated. I've some experience with coding and 'rolling my own' CVS builds and am more than happy to pass back to other savage users anything I happen to get working.


Anyone else have anything to add?

---

### Post by tormod on 2005-04-11
For those of you now running hoary: Here is the quick&easy&dirty way to get a 3D accelerated savage driver. You must enable universe to get the 2.6.11 kernel.

I put together a tarball with the DRI snapshot 20050311 for the savage video cards. The kernel drivers are for 2.6.11-1-k7. See here for more info:
[http://tormod.webhop.org/linux/hoary-savage.html](http://tormod.webhop.org/linux/hoary-savage.html)

Now that I think of it, they might only work with the -k7 kernels,,, In which case
you should download the binary snapshots yourself from dri.sf.net and compile
your own kernel modules for other kernel varieties. For that you need to 
install the corresponding linux-headers package (or linux-source) first.

YMMV, tell me how it goes.
Tormod

---

### Post by volfro on 2005-04-12
Worked!  Sweet!  I've been trying to get this going since I first installed Linux.

My hardware pretty much sucks, but glxgears still runs twice as fast as it used to (right now, about 240 FPS).  I'm trying Tuxracer now to see how it works!  (And this means I can probably play Wolfenstein: Enemy Territory!  Woohoo!)

On a slightly annoying note, 2.6.11-k7 broke my GNOME, so I'm stuck using KDE for the moment.  Any suggestions?

(Also, my sound is still slightly delayed, if anybody wants to help me out with that.  0000:00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 40), according to lsmod.  Although, sound worked for me in Ubuntu right out of the box, which is a first for me, so I'm not complaining.  :) )

EDIT: Tuxracer runs like a dream!  (No sound though.  Said it couldn't locate an available audio device.)  Now, for ET...  This is exciting to me!  Thanks again!

---

### Post by tormod on 2005-04-12
[QUOTE=volfro]On a slightly annoying note, 2.6.11-k7 broke my GNOME, so I'm stuck using KDE for the moment.  Any suggestions?[/QUOTE]
This kernel package is known to have problems (see this [thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=25247) ). The gam_server makes the kernel crash. Maybe a temporary workaround would be to disable the gamin stuff, until a fixed kernel package comes along. I am stuck with twm for my 3D sessions :)
> 
EDIT: Tuxracer runs like a dream!  (No sound though.  Said it couldn't locate an available audio device.)  Now, for ET...  This is exciting to me!  Thanks again!
Make sure you install the libsdl library that matches your sound server setup. For gnome and esd (which for above reasons is difficult :) it would have been libsdl1.2-esd. For KDE, I don't know, -arts ?

Tormod

---

### Post by volfro on 2005-04-12
...yeah, that kernel package is really unstable for me.  As discussed, gnome freezes as the panels load.

KDE starts okay, but I get random freezes thereafter.  It'll just freeze without rhyme or reason.

Would this still work if I compiled my own 2.6.11-k7 kernel?  And would it fix the instability/GNOME incompatibility?  Because I've built a kernel once, I'm willing to do it again...

This ALSO means compositing will work on my computer, which makes me REALLY happy, as I'm a fan of a pretty interface.  Thanks again, Tormod.  I was thinking I'd have to wait 6 months for working GL support on my card.

---

### Post by tormod on 2005-04-13
[QUOTE=volfro]...yeah, that kernel package is really unstable for me.  As discussed, gnome freezes as the panels load.[/QUOTE]
Adding "noinotify" to the kernel boot options fixed this for me.

> Would this still work if I compiled my own 2.6.11-k7 kernel?  And would it fix the instability/GNOME incompatibility?  Because I've built a kernel once, I'm willing to do it again...
Seems like people here compiling their own 2.6.11 kernel does not see this problem. It depends on which patches and options you use.

> This ALSO means compositing will work on my computer, which makes me REALLY happy, as I'm a fan of a pretty interface.  Thanks again, Tormod.  I was thinking I'd have to wait 6 months for working GL support on my card.
Great to hear that. Now, the DRI developers who gave us all this would appreciate if we install their full snapshot (and a recent one), and report any bugs to them... [http://dri.sourceforge.net](http://dri.sourceforge.net)

Tormod

---

### Post by volfro on 2005-04-13
Okay.  I know this thread is getting old, but...

How do I enable 2D accelleration?  I thought this would fix my jerky ZSNES, but alas, it hasn't.

Edit: Took your advice, went to the snapshot site, and downloaded today's, and its install script worked nicely.  I now have working DRI on 2.6.10-5-k7.  (For anybody else who wants to do that, you must have kernel headers and modules (I installed both free and non-free) installed.)  I'll be sure and let them know if I find any bugs :)

---

### Post by eizo on 2005-05-22
Yeah, I'm also in great need of S3 Savage Acceleration. It'll be much appreciated if it's done in the next release, or even earlier. Thanks a lot folks.

---

### Post by arnieboy on 2005-06-02
take a look at this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32043](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=32043)

Read the whole thread before u begin!

---

### Post by buedi on 2005-06-30
Thank you very much! This is what I was searching since I installed Ubuntu on my IBM Thinkpad T23 (SuperSavage IX). I am so happy that it works now. Thanks for your Explanation how to set it up correctly  :)

---

