---
title: "Unable to pass the login Screen"
date: 2010-02-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nigsy on 2010-02-17
I have done a clean intall of Ubuntu 9.10 (K. Koala).
Got everything up and working with 2 users, me with full privelleges and my son with a ltd account.

Everything was working well so I moved the PC to my sons room, connected it to his TV and was able to log in as both users.

I changed the display settings on his account as when using the 1360 x 768 (16:9) setting the top bar and the last icons on the screen weren't visable, the desktop also started about 2inches from the left hand side of the screen, so changed them to 800 x 600 and whole desktop visable.

I switched user and did the same to my desktop. Then switched the pc off.

I come back to it now, boot it up, get to the user/password screen, select me and enter my password, the screen flickers, little Ubuntu drum roll, and I return to the login screen. So I try my sons login, same result.
No password authenticaion message, so I guess this isn't the issue.

Surley just changing display settings can't have this effect?
Does anyone know a way of getting past this screen?

---

### Post by idella on 2010-02-17
I've had this happen a bit lately, in another distro.  At login, gnome (I presume) should give you the option of logging into a console.  This is your first step to sanity.  Once logged in at a console, you can work at fixing it.  You will need to look at your xorg log to see what happened.  This should have the record you need.  It is at /var/log/Xorg0.log.  View it via nano, or perhaps
sudo tail /var/log/Xorg0.log/
which gives you about the final 10 lines.  Normally, it will be very long.  It may still be long even though shortened by not completing. 
Just to verify, try entering 
xinit or startx at the console.
You will get something similar to the login at gnome's gdm; a quick flicker and return.

For further help, post the log, or a shortened version of it.

Also. if you look at xorg.conf, it gives you a backup. Actually, it's no longer xorg.conf apparently.  There is a file in /etc/X11 that has the following

# Xwrapper.config (Debian X Window System server wrapper configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by the post-installation script of the x11-common
# package using values from the debconf database.
#
# See the Xwrapper.config(5) manual page for more information.
#
# This file is automatically updated on upgrades of the x11-common package
# *only* if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of that package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command as root:
#   **dpkg-reconfigure x11-common**
allowed_users=console

This is your backup.  Run the above command that I have bolded, and it should probably fix everything.  Run it, followed by xinit or startx and you should be in

---

