---
title: "11.4 Gnome version"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by the-noob on 2011-05-02
I have installed the latest and greatest ubuntu 11.4. Having used it heavily for several Days now i not only find it's new Unity desktop environment utterly awful, unintuitive, slow, ugly and buggy. To the point that i hate it. 

Is there a gnome for 11.4? Otherwise I fear I might be moving to another vendor of Linux if this Unity is the direction Ubuntu is focused on. Truly rubbish.

---

### Post by bigsmitty64 on 2011-05-02
Log out, then log back in and at the bottom of the login page, there are a few choices. "Ubuntu classic" is one of them. :)

---

### Post by sgage on 2011-05-02
> **the-noob said:**
> Is there a gnome for 11.4? Otherwise I fear I might be moving to another vendor of Linux if this Unity is the direction Ubuntu is focused on. Truly rubbish.

Let's please use the correct terminology. 

Unity (which you hate) is a UI shell on top of Gnome - 11.4 runs the Gnome software stack, but has chosen Unity instead of the 2-panel thing that is the stock UI for Gnome 2.32.

Similarly, the stock UI for Gnome 3 is Gnome Shell. Gnome Shell is not "Gnome 3", as so many refer to it. Unity (which you hate) is being updated to run on the Gnome 3 stack for Ubuntu 11.10, Oneiric. There will no doubt be some panel-y alternative as well.

As another post suggested, it's a simple matter to log in to "Classic". In fact, I usually use "Classic - No Effects". It works perfectly, and Natty is the best Ubuntu ever as far as I'm concerned.

Please, everyone, let's distinguish between Gnome, the version of Gnome, and the UI being employed on top of it. Things are confusing enough as it is. :KS

---

### Post by the-noob on 2011-05-02
[@bigsmitty64]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=966097") Thanks... I can get back to being productive again
@[sgage]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=286159").. I am sorry for not using the correct terminology. But i'd of thought my handle would give away the extent of my linux knowledge. And as a noob, i have to say, I use linux because I need fast reliable non-bloated virus free(ish) systems to 
a) use the tinterweb
b) email
c) facebook
d) Office

I an not like most Linux users who probs use Linux for for more brainy and clever things. Thus, i thought Unity was the new Desktop Environment that replaced Gnome.. Unity, is IMHO awful. and will probs push other noobs who come from MS and Apple, back to MS and Apple... as i almost looked elsewhere not knowing about the 'classic' DE

At this point I must also say that i dont give a *** how it works under the hood, i just want it to work.. and Unity, does not work.

peace

---

### Post by easyease on 2011-05-02
Yes maybe "classic" should be the default and have people manually select unity if they feel brave.

---

