---
title: "Video card drievr problem."
date: 2007-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nifty123 on 2007-11-22
hello there,
Im running Ubuntu 7.1, I enabled restricted video driver, then it install and then asks to be restarted. I then restarted my computer it cannot boot, the screen goes between a bit of colour and the last words tht come up on the screen after the Ubuntu loading bar when you start up Ubuntu it's like it's trying to load but it can't, then a box comes up saying "use low resolution" i tick that then ubuntu boots, i go into restricted drivers and it says "not in use" and the "enabled" box has no tick in it???

this it my xorg.conf, if you can help.

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Disable         "dbe"
        Disable         "dri"
        Disable         "glx"
        Disable         "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	16
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	16
		Modes   "800x600"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

---

### Post by mpierce on 2007-11-22
What type of video card do you have, e.g., nVidia or ATI? 

It's using the vesa drive at the moment change that to nv just to try and save the file. Restart the x server with either sudo /etc/init.d/kdm or /etc/init.d/gdm or simply reboot. 

I known the nVidia card but we need to know what you have to help.

Hope this helps...

---

### Post by Sockerdrickan on 2007-11-22
7.10 is very hard to get working with 8800 for me

---

### Post by Nifty123 on 2007-11-22
The brand is MSI but it's a Nvidia chipset i gues beceause geforce is nvidia.

---

### Post by malfist on 2007-11-22
I had a similar problem, one way to fix it is to install the driver from nvidia's site every time you start up the computer...or use envy to install it. I about dropped Ubuntu because of it.

---

### Post by Nifty123 on 2007-11-22
Im about to drop it. i tryed using envy ive been trying for about 2 weeks on and off to fix it i have reinstalled Ubuntu twice allready. Havn't even got the chane to properly use it yet. so complicated to get video card fully working.

---

