---
title: "11.04 doesn't hibernate on hp mini 110"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by roadkillguy on 2011-04-30
I just installed ubuntu 11.04 yesterday.  It's great and all, until I select hibernate.  When booting up, it rarely gives an error message (something along the lines of "[SOMETHING] failed. (0x0 != 0x55)") and displays a bunch of freaky purple dots at the top of the screen along with my cursor.  I can get to tty[1-6], which is how I have to shut the thing down.

Does anybody know which package specifically handles hibernation?  I would like to know soon, that way I can reinstall it or install an older version.  Hibernation is key on my laptop, and I'd like to get it working somehow.  I'd like to avoid backing up data and reinstalling the OS (10.04) at all costs.

Thanks.

---

### Post by roadkillguy on 2011-04-30
Interestingly enough, when it's left in this post-hibernation state for long enough, the system will suspend, and after suspending will start the rest of the GUI just fine.

Something's up with starting the desktop after hibernating.

---

### Post by JavaNut13 on 2011-05-01
I have the same problem - I just get 'junk' pixels at the top of the screen, and my cursor.

I have a day-old install of 11.04 on my Acer Aspire One.

Again, hibernating is key to a laptop.

---

### Post by roadkillguy on 2011-05-01
Is hibernation hard coded into the kernel?  I'm afraid there may be no way to fix this until the next release.

---

### Post by IWantWaffles on 2011-05-06
Hi, same problem here. I have an HP Mini which hibernated fine in 10.04, but has stopped working in 11.04.

The computer appears to go into hibernation but fails to wake up correctly. Instead, I am greeted with a black screen, with the upper ~10% of the screen showing random slightly-changing pixels. Sometimes my cursor is visible and can be moved, but nothing else shows on the blank screen.

Any ideas? :confused:

---

### Post by Fi3nder on 2011-05-11
The same for my HP Mini (worked fine with 10.04). As Roadkillguy mentioned, going into suspended mode helps, so my temporary solution is to close and open the lid after booting from hibernation.

---

### Post by IWantWaffles on 2011-05-13
Thanks for posting that trick Fi3nder. :) I'll have to set my power settings up that way (I like to have it hibernate on lid close, but I guess I can live without that). Not a perfect solution, but is certainly better than shutting down and starting back up every session!

Hopefully the Ubuntu gods can figure this one out. I'm considering going back to 10.04 but would hate to have to do that.

---

### Post by IWantWaffles on 2011-05-13
Another option that appears to work:
When trying to come out of hibernation, when the screen is blank and funky, type in your password and hit enter (the prompt is there even though you can't see it) then use FunctionKey+F1 (on HP Mini) to send the computer into sleep mode. Then hit any key to wake it up and everything is back to normal.

It is a real franken-solution but at least I can still have my computer go into hibernation on lid close.

---

### Post by roadkillguy on 2011-05-13
Hmmmm... interesting.  As far as I can tell, I think it's related to the new purple backround when you boot.  It's great and all, but it's still pretty glitchy even before the bug described above.

Unfortunately, only the people with the problem will ever find this thread.  I take it everyone got this through google?  I'm not exactly sure how to report this as a bug or how to get official help.

---

### Post by Sonsum on 2011-05-15
This affects me too. I have a Samsung N120.

So I'm assuming this is an integrated graphics card driver issue?

---

### Post by roadkillguy on 2011-05-20
Hooray! Somebody fixed it! Sort of...

I installed the pre-released kernel which fixed hibernation but disabled wireless networking.

I'd rather have wireless networking over hibernation.

---

### Post by kazi_ on 2011-07-05
I found this thread and it made my day... I just thought I would give props to fi3nder/IWantWaffles/roadkillguy, because you just saved me from a massive headache with the suspend trick of yours....

---

### Post by roadkillguy on 2011-07-16
The new kernel (Linux 2.6.38-10-generic) fixes this for me as of now. (I installed it literally 3 minutes ago :D)

---

### Post by Fi3nder on 2011-07-19
I confirm, the kernel 2.6.38-10 does the job for my Hp Mini as well. :cool:

---

