---
title: "10.10 Hangs on Boot"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by freeze10108 on 2010-10-11
Hey all,

I installed Maverick Meerkat today, and it was working great on the first boot (which is when I updated the system...).  However, since then, it won't boot up.  When I looked at the output during boot, I noticed that it hangs when it gets to:

```
floppy0:  no floppy controllers found
```

After that, the hard drive access light on my laptop turns off and it just sits there.

Thanks to anyone who helps!  :)

---

### Post by zagreus360 on 2010-10-11
having exactly the same problem as you. so far i haven't been able to find any solutions on the net to fix it. 

billy

---

### Post by claydon on 2010-10-11
Is your floppy drive removable, if so have you tried booting with it disconnected

---

### Post by zagreus360 on 2010-10-11
i don't know about [freeze10108]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=764680") but i don't even have a floppy drive. that's why it seems so odd.

billy

---

### Post by freeze10108 on 2010-10-11
Oh!  That's what I forgot to mention.  I don't have a floppy drive on my laptop either.

---

### Post by zagreus360 on 2010-10-12
ok i've been able to access my desktop by booting in recovery mode using failsafe x. however this means that i have to access it using a lower resolution + my graphics driver doesn't seem to work properly. this hasn't fixed the problem as i have  to boot in to recovery mode every time i boot the system but it's a temporary solution until someone can help fix this problem.

---

### Post by freeze10108 on 2010-10-14
Using the recovery mode seems to be hit-and-miss for me.  Sometimes it'll make it past the error, and sometimes it won't.  I was able to access my desktop yesterday, and I ran updates which installed some new headers (though I don't know that they were related at all to this problem).  It seemed that it was fixed yesterday, as I was able to boot from the normal kernel without changing any boot parameters.

Today however, I can't boot from either the normal kernel or the recovery kernel; they both hang at the same point I mentioned in the original post.  :(

---

### Post by freeze10108 on 2010-10-16
Well, it appears that there is no solution to this problem but to downgrade, even though I **really** don't want to.  I still can't get either kernel (recovery or normal) to boot, and it's rather difficult to find any updates if I can't even get the OS started. :p

Does anyone know what package (and if) I should file a bug report against?

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2010-10-16
Just wondering if you've checked out whether or not your BIOS believes that you have a floppy drive. Ubuntu may be taking its cue from faulty BIOS settings.

---

### Post by zagreus360 on 2010-10-16
i gave up last night and downgraded to 10.04

---

### Post by freeze10108 on 2010-10-16
> **hawthornso23 said:**
> Just wondering if you've checked out whether or not your BIOS believes that you have a floppy drive. Ubuntu may be taking its cue from faulty BIOS settings.

I just checked, and there's no reference to it believing that there is a floppy drive.  Rather, the only real mentions of a floppy drive are in the boot order section, and the section that allows one to enable or disable booting from the disc drive or from floppy.

Also, my Fedora partition doesn't have this problem, so I'm not sure that the BIOS would be causing the issue.

---

### Post by freeze10108 on 2010-10-16
Sorry for the double post, but I was able to boot into Ubuntu normally! \\:D/  First, I added

```
alias floppy off
```

to /etc/modules, and that allowed me to boot once, but it wanted to do a disk check, and after it rebooted, it wouldn't boot up again, so this likely isn't what fixed it.  Then, I added

```
blacklist floppy0
```

to /etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf.  After I rebooted from my Feodra installation, I was able to boot into Ubuntu, and am posting this post from my Ubuntu installation!

I'm not going to mark this as solved just yet though, in case this boot is a fluke...

EDIT:

Yep, it was a fluke.  I rebooted and it hung up in the same place.  I'm probably going to find a different distro for this partition until 11.04 comes out.  Anyway, thanks to those who helped!  :)

---

