---
title: ".desktop file error"
date: 2015-06-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kpenguin on 2015-06-23
Hi everyone,
I have a program I want to launch from a .desktop file. The command to run it is:
```
cd ~/Desktop/SuperTuxKart_0.9_Linux && ./stk.sh
```
I put that in as the command to run when the .desktop file is launched. But when I launch the .desktop file, I get an error that says "There was an error when launching the application." The command runs fine from terminal, so why is it not working with the .desktop file? Any help would be appreciated! :)
Thanks!
Kpenguin

P.S. If you're wondering why my problems usually revolve around STK, it's because I'm on the development team. ;)

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2015-06-23
Why don't you just use a path to the file you want to execute instead of using cd to move to that directory first?

You may have to use exec to run the command/application, but I don't know what it is you are trying to run.

---

### Post by branau on 2015-06-23
Any chance you could put the contents of your desktop file here?

You should have something like this:

```
[Desktop Entry]
Name=My Shell Script
Exec=/home/your_name_here/path/to/file/shell-script.sh
```

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-06-23
You have to make a bash script with that command and then the .desktop file should invoke the script. Here is an example. I create a desktop file for sage (a math program that runs in the terminal)
```
[Desktop Entry]
Categories=;
Comment=run sage in a terminal
Encoding=UTF-8
Exec=sh /home/monkeybrain/bin/sagestart.sh
Hidden=false
Icon=/home/monkeybrain/share/icons/SageLogo.png
Name=Sage
Terminal=true
Type=Application
Version=
Categories=Math;Science;Education;
```

The Exec line runs a scripts in the /home/monkeybrain/bin directory called sagestart.sh

Here is sagestart.sh
```
#!/bin/bash

cd ~/bin/sage && ./sage

```

The sage binary is in /home/monkeybrain/bin/sage and it is run by the command

```
./sage
```

P.S using the path directly doesn't work. somehow have to cd into it first.


Alternatively,  I could have created a symlink (first argument is the real path, the second argument is the symbolic link which points to the real path)

```
sudo ln -s  /home/monkeybrain/bin/sage/sage /usr/bin/sage
```

Then I don't need the script at all. Instead of invoking the script with the desktop file I just need the .desktop file with

```
Exec=sage
```

---

### Post by branau on 2015-06-23
The problem with your desktop file is that you need to remove the sh at the beginnng. So basically it should look more like this:

```
 
Exec=/home/monkeybrain/bin/sagestart.sh

```

Then you could keep the path to the directory in tact

---

### Post by efflandt on 2015-06-23
Exec= does not do bash or dash interpretation of things like ~/ and may have trouble with other parameters. So you either need to exec whatever in a shell or create a script that does what you want to do and run that script. For example to run it in a shell try this (those are single quotes, not backticks):```
Exec=sh -c 'cd ~/Desktop/SuperTuxKart_0.9_Linux && ./stk.sh'
```For example this is a .desktop file I use to launch the minecraft launcher:```
[Desktop Entry]
Version=1.0
Type=Application
Terminal=true
Icon=/home/efflandt/Pictures/Icons/minecraft.png
Name=Minecraft-direct
Exec=sh -c 'java -jar ~/Downloads/Minecraft.jar'
Name[en_US]=Minecraft
```The other alternative is to create a bin directory in your home (mkdir /bin), then once you have logged out of X and logged back in, that ~/bin should end up in your $PATH. Create a shell script in that like ~/bin/whatever with execute permission, then in the desktop file you can set: **Exec=whatever** and it will run ~/bin/whatever.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-06-23
> **William_Brawner said:**
> The problem with your desktop file is that you need to remove the sh at the beginnng. So basically it should look more like this:

```
 
Exec=/home/monkeybrain/bin/sagestart.sh

```

Then you could keep the path to the directory in tact

Well I don't remember whether it worked or not without the sh, but it definitely worked with sh (since I most likely tried without the sh first I think it might be needed) But anyway I am no longer using the script since I have switched to the second way by symlinking the sage binary to /usr/bin. That way I can also start it from the terminal without typing in the full path.

---

### Post by branau on 2015-06-23
> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> Well I don't remember whether it worked or not without the sh, but it definitely worked with sh (since I most likely tried without the sh first I think it might be needed) But anyway I am no longer using the script since I have switched to the second way by symlinking the sage binary to /usr/bin. That way I can also start it from the terminal without typing in the full path.

Ah, my bad if I gave out false information, I've been playing around with shell scripts and here's a simple example of one that I use for a program that I wrote:

```

[Desktop Entry]
Name=Workout Generator
Comment=Generate a random workout
Exec=/home/me/Documents/PS/workoutgenerator/workout-generator.sh
Terminal=true
Type=Application
Icon=/home/me/Pictures/Weight.png


```

This links to a shell script that runs my Python script. It works just fine for me though. I suppose there could be multiple solutions and what I said may not have been necessarily true.

Running the desktop-file-validate command passing the file as an argument will always tell you if there are any problems in the desktop file. So it would look like this:

```

desktop-file-validate your-file-here.desktop

```

Question though: does symlinking allow other people you distribute your code to to install the files without having to sudo update their directory?

---

### Post by Kpenguin on 2015-06-24
How do I open the actual contents of the .desktop file? I have just been clicking on "properties" and then changing the command it executes from there. How do I actually open it with, say gedit since I don't see anything like that I the right click context menu?

---

### Post by branau on 2015-06-24
You can do that from the terminal. Just cd to your desktop file, and then run this:

```

gedit your-file.dekstop

```

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-06-24
You can also drag and drop it into a text editor.

---

### Post by Kpenguin on 2015-06-24
Thanks for your help everyone! It's now working properly. Here are the contents that made it work:
```
[Desktop Entry]
Name=SuperTuxKart
Icon=supertuxkart
GenericName=A kart racing game
Exec=./Desktop/SuperTuxKart_0.9_Linux/run_game.sh
Terminal=false
StartupNotify=false
Type=Application
Categories=ArcadeGame;
```

Thanks again! You guys are awesome! I always know I can get good help here. :D
Kpenguin

---

### Post by Kpenguin on 2015-06-25
Sorry, actually not solved. I am having issues with this .desktop file:
```
[Desktop Entry] 
Name=Telegram Desktop
Icon=telegram
GenericName=An Internet Messaging Client 
Exec=./Desktop/Telegram/Telegram
Type=Application 
Categories=Internet;
```
It gives me the "There was an error launching the application" error when I launch it. Why is it giving me issues? The file is marked as executable btw.

Thanks again!
Kpenguin

---

### Post by branau on 2015-06-25
Can you run this code here:
```
desktop-file-validate your-file-here.desktop
```
And give us the output of it? If it gives you any, that is. If it doesn't give you any errors, then the problem isn't with your desktop file.

---

### Post by Kpenguin on 2015-06-25
```
Telegram_Desktop.desktop: error: value "Application " for key "Type" in group "Desktop Entry" is not a registered type value ("Application", "Link" and "Directory")
Telegram_Desktop.desktop: error: value "Internet;" for key "Categories" in group "Desktop Entry" contains an unregistered value "Internet"; values extending the format should start with "X-"
Telegram_Desktop.desktop: hint: value "Internet;" for key "Categories" in group "Desktop Entry" does not contain a registered main category; application might only show up in a "catch-all" section of the application menu
```

---

### Post by Kpenguin on 2015-06-25
Thanks for that command, I see where the problem is now!

---

### Post by branau on 2015-06-25
Sure thing, let us know if you have any more troubles with it.

---

### Post by Kpenguin on 2015-06-25
Quick question, how do you indicate spaces in a command? For example, if I put in
```
Exec=./Home/Folder/My Folder
```
It says
```
Command "My" not found
``` In terminal
How do you indicate a space in a folder or file name?

---

### Post by branau on 2015-06-25
You just need to wrap that folder/file name in quotes, like this:

```
Exec=./Home/Folder/"My Folder"/"My File.txt"
```

---

### Post by Kpenguin on 2015-06-29
Another question/issue...
I have one of the .desktop files I created locked to my launcher, but it only works once after you lock it to the launcher. After you click it the first time, it doesn't work and you have to unlock and then relock it to the launcher. Why is this and is there any way to fix this problem?
Thanks!
Kpenguin

---

### Post by branau on 2015-07-01
Sorry for the delay, I thought I had replied.

I'm stumped on this one. Have you tried running the desktop file validator? That might give us some clues as to where to start looking.

---

