---
title: "12.04.3 Nvidia Problem Command Prompt Only"
date: 2013-12-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LaughingHorse on 2013-12-20
I am having problems getting to the desktop.

I started a thread entiteld
" 12.04.3 no desktop commandline only "
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2194584](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2194584)

But since it is an issue with Nvidia, I thought it might be better to create a thread here. Especially, because it is not about a desktop environment specifically.

If I did something wrong about starting a new thread, please accept my apologies in advance.

**I tried**
```
dpkg -l | grep -i nvidia
```

The response was:

ii nvidia-304      304.88-0ubuntu0.03
NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel modlue and VDPAU library

ii nvidia-304-updates       304.108-0ubuntu0.01
NVIDIA binary Xorg driver, kernel module and VDPAU library

ii nvidia-common         1:0.2.44.2

                 Find obsolete NVIDIA drivers
ii nvidia-current     304.116-0ubuntu1~xedgers~precise1
Transitional package for nvidia-current

ii nvidia-current-updates        301.1085-0ubuntu0.1
Transitional package for nvidia-current-updates

ii nvidia-settings        301.108-0ubuntu0.0.3
Transitional package for nvidia-settings

ii nvidia-settings-304        304.88-0ubuntu0.0.3
Tool for configuring the NVIDIA graphics driver

ii nvidia-settings-304-updates        304.88-0ubuntu0.0.3
Tool for configuring nvidia graphics driver

ii nvidia-settings-updates        304.88-0ubuntu0.0.3
Transitional tool for nvidia-settings updates

**Then I entered:**

```
sudo apt-get remove – purge nvidia*
```

My system responded with:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
E: Unable to locate package nvidia-bug-report.log.gz
E: Couldn't find any package by regex 'nvidia-bug-report.log.gz'

**Then I entered:**

```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
```

My system responded:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree
Reading state information... Done
ubuntu-desktop is already the newest version
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 24 not upgraded

[B]I then entered
[/B]
```
sudo rm /etc/x11/xorg.conf
```

My system respoonded
rm: cannot remove '/etc/x11/xorg.conf': No such file or directory

**Then I entered**

```
echo 'nouveau' | sudo tee -a /etc/modules
```

My system responded
nouveau


I rebooted and tried logging in and was directed not to the splash screen, or desktop, but rather to the command prompt once again.

I have tried booting up using Recovery Mode - and the result is still the prompt asking me to log in. I log in and no desktop, just the prompt.

**Additional Info:**

Something interesting!
Last night (well 3 am) I downloaded the 12.04 instillation/trail package from the ubuntu.com site, and burned a dvd.

Using that dvd I am able to get the desktop working using the burned dvd as a "trial" so all my settings, packages, etc are not available to me.
Do you think I would be better off just doing a clean re-install at this point?

My current instillation is on a separate partition. 

Yesterday when this problem started, I ran the 
```
startx 
```
command and  got:
NVIDIA: API mismatch: the NVIDIA kernel module has version 304.88, but this NVDIA driver component has version 304.108

---

### Post by LaughingHorse on 2013-12-21
Bump

---

### Post by howefield on 2013-12-21
Thread closed, duplicate here : [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2194584](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2194584)

---

