---
title: "8.10 boot stops at Setting advanced power management level to 0xfe (254) [ok]"
date: 2009-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Saand on 2009-08-07
Hello! I am new to linux, so sorry if i can't give the best information about this. I have reinstalled linux a few times now and continue to encounter this problem. After i use the automatic update to install new drivers. The computer will run fine until i reboot.

As it boots it gets to the readout ```
Setting advanced power management level to 0xfe (254) [ok] 
```

and then it just stops booting. I left it on for a while (hour) and nothing happens.

I then attempted to boot in the recovery mode and used the dpkg option, but it doesn't do anything. When i attempt to do the 'resume normal boot' option it will start booting and then asks for my login, which i provide, then for my password. When i try to enter my password it doesn't allow any keystrokes to register. It just sits there with a blinking _ 

Any help is appreciated!

---

### Post by esanaan on 2009-09-19
Was there any resolution to this problem?

I'm a newbie too.. just finished installing 9.04, but the PPD in for my brother dcp7020 using this
[http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-494162.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-494162.html)

printed a test page, and all the sudden the nvidia x server starts to flash and go wonky... 

so I revert to the older Nvidia driver.....reboot... and now i'm stuck with the  exact same problem as Saand.

---

### Post by UnitedRoadRed on 2009-10-09
Same here, different way of getting to it though.

Clean install of 9.04 on a laptop with no OS on it.
Got all the updates, rebooted, still fine.
Installed lamp as described in a tutorial and rebooted. 
Now telling me a few things are not found:

/usr/share/acpi-support/power-funcs: No such file or directory
setLEDAsusWireless: command not found
/etc/acpi/start.d/90-hdparm.sh: line 25: getState: command not found

Can't get any further - stops at

/dev/sda:
 setting Advanced Power Management level to 0xfe (254)    [OK]

Any ideas anyone?

---

