---
title: "I get this error message with compiz"
date: 2008-10-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pluckypigeon on 2008-10-05
I've used compiz on this pc before so I know it can work.

when I type compiz --replace I get this

```


Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: Segmentation fault
not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: Segmentation fault
not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 


```

This is the graphics card output on lspci

```


00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)


```

Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by f1r31c3r on 2008-10-05
I not sure but here is a guess that might work worth a try.

ati and nvidea drivers have had all the xgl stuff compiled into them so they all now work with AIGLX and dont use the Xgl.

have you tried to install XGl search for it in synaptic package manager i am sure ubuntu have the Xgl in there repositories if not search forum there is a thread or was thread explaining how to install Xgl.

Just a thought let us know if it was not installed:KS

---

### Post by pluckypigeon on 2008-10-05
> **f1r31c3r said:**
> I not sure but here is a guess that might work worth a try.

ati and nvidea drivers have had all the xgl stuff compiled into them so they all now work with AIGLX and dont use the Xgl.

have you tried to install XGl search for it in synaptic package manager i am sure ubuntu have the Xgl in there repositories if not search forum there is a thread or was thread explaining how to install Xgl.

Just a thought let us know if it was not installed:KS

I don't know what to install

---

### Post by f1r31c3r on 2008-10-06
> **pluckypigeon said:**
> I don't know what to install


you could try but read on before you install it:

> sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl


Intel graphics should work with AIGLX though hows your /etc/X11/xorg.conf look like.

here is some interesting reading about XGL i suggest you have a look at it before installing the above:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/Xgl")

Here is a link with explanation to the AIGLX this is built into X.org so it is already installed on your system if you can run X. from what you've been saying it could be as simple as a config setting in your xorg.conf

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/AIGLX]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/AIGLX")


ALso run:

> 
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade


then try to run compiz again or use the system > Preferences > Appearance, then go to the last tab (Visual Effects) and compiz gets enabled when you select a higher lever of effects such as extra

let us know what you try and what happened

if it worked once how and what happened to break it or was it a re-install upgrade etc.

---

### Post by pluckypigeon on 2008-10-06
> **f1r31c3r said:**
> 

sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl 



there's no such package

---

### Post by f1r31c3r on 2008-10-06
> **pluckypigeon said:**
> there's no such package


what version of ubuntu are you using?

in the hardy package list the xserver-xgl exists.

but it should work on AIGLX included latest version of X.org

try reinstall this reinstall your drivers
> 
sudo apt-get remove linux-restricted-modules-generic restricted-manager

if the restricted modules manager is not installed then dont worry about the remove error try installing it with the following command if it is installed just remove it then reinstall it with command above and bellow
> 
sudo apt-get install linux-restricted-modules-generic restricted-manager

then 

sudo depmod -a



if all goes well then restart X

still not working what is the output generated by:

> dpkg -l | grep compiz

---

