---
title: "Nvidia X Driver Problem"
date: 2008-06-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by smcmulli on 2008-06-15
Hello, I am fairly new to linux (ubuntu) and I seem to be having a problem with setting up the newest Nvidia drivers for my video card.  I have looked at this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=656093&page=4]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=656093&page=4") and the problems these people were having I am having.  I tried to solve the problem with the solutions within that thread but nothing seems to be working and I am left with the message:

"You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. "

I also do not have XGL installed and have double checked by attempting to remove it and it was not present.  Any help would be greatly appreciated!! I miss my 1680x1050 resolution :(

Thanks

---

### Post by Pjotr123 on 2008-06-15
First do this:
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/thefirstthingstodo](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/thefirstthingstodo)
(number 2: possibly you need Envy)

Then this (if necessary):
[http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/bugsinubuntu](http://ubuntutip.googlepages.com/bugsinubuntu)
(number 2 as well)

---

### Post by smcmulli on 2008-06-15
I have just completed all those steps and updated everything.  But when I run nvidia-settings it still has that error message:

"You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. "

I installed envy and it updated the nvidia driver, but I still cannot manage to select the proper driver with gksudo displayconfig-gtk (geforce 7 series), it just sticks to generic video card.

---

### Post by argail1980 on 2008-06-15
did you run ```
sudo nvidia-xconfig 
```?

post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf, maybe I can see something there.

btw: what exactly does not work?

---

### Post by smcmulli on 2008-06-15
Yes I ran nvidia-xconfig, restarted my pc and x (ctrl+alt+backspace) and it still gives me that error when I try to run nvidia-settings.

My issue is that I cannot set my resolution to 1680x1050 and I do not think the driver is detecting when I select my video card.  I click on test when I select Nvidia Geforce 7 series and I just get my two monitors showing gray scan lines.

---

### Post by smcmulli on 2008-06-15
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Thu Feb 14 18:20:37 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
    VendorName     "Plug 'n' Play"
    ModelName      "Plug 'n' Play"
    Gamma           1
    ModeLine       "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA"
    BoardName      "NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Virtual     640 480
        Depth       24
        Modes      "640x480@60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by argail1980 on 2008-06-15
omg...
> Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
VendorName "Plug 'n' Play"
ModelName "Plug 'n' Play"
Gamma 1
ModeLine "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -hsync -vsync
EndSection

this looks like you monitor is not detected properly.. the video card looks fine actually.

let me guess: when you start the x-server, it has a very low resolution and you cannot change that

ok, go and try some standard options for your monitor:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
```

(as root) replace the monitor section by

```
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier "Configured Monitor"
        Option "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

```

and replace the lines

> Virtual 640 480
Depth 24
Modes "640x480@60"
in the screen section by

```
Virtual 1680 1050
Depth 24
Modes "1680x1050@60"
```

maybe you should start with a lower resolution, just to be careful.

then restart X with 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm restart
``` (or kdm if you have kubuntu)

NOT with simply killing the X-server with Ctrl+Alt+Backspace

When this does funny things, immediately stop the xserver from the console (press Ctrl+Alt+F2 and enter) 
```
sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop
```

and copy the old version of your xorg.conf over the new one.

---

### Post by smcmulli on 2008-06-15
Awesome! Thanks!! It works perfectly, now I just need to figure out how to setup my 2nd monitor.

---

### Post by argail1980 on 2008-06-16
no prob, I've done this also :D

insert 
```
Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "SecondMonitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

```
below the first monitor section

and also another device section below the


```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device 2"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA"
BoardName "NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series"
Screen 1
EndSection
```

plus another screen
```

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen2"
Device "Configured Video Device 2"
Monitor "SecondMonitor"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
SubSection "Display"
Virtual 1024 768
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768@60"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```


then you need to announce these new devices in the ServerLayout Section
(the existing, not a new one!)

```
Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
Screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
Screen 1 "Screen2" RightOf "Default Screen"
InputDevice "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"
EndSection
```

check this for typing errors, I didnt copy fron an existing file, but wrote most of it just now.

---

