---
title: "my mouse doesnt work on linux.."
date: 2005-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-27
hi (again) guys..
i bought a new mouse because my old one didnt work..it works good on Windows XP but on linux it doesnt work at all , even the light is not turning on.
anyone knows why?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2005-11-27
Good opportunity to learn using the command line :D

Seriously, what kind of mouse is it ? USB, PS/2, serial or what ?

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-11-27
Noone can help without knowing at least what type of mouse it is. Is is a USB, PS/2 or a bluetooth one? Brand and model?

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-27
its PS2
model : Silverline XT1390 
optical mouse..

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-27
come on guys its important to me...i cant do anything and im stuck on windows.. =\

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-11-28
See if the mouse is detected and listed in any way in Device Manager, and post the contents of your xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-28
1-how can i see if its detected?
i only know that the light of it is on..and in middle of the linux startup (loading screen) it shuts down.

2- how can i post my xorg.conf file here?


3- it will be easier to work if u can give me the command for keyboard mouse..
(its an option that allows u to move mouse with numpad keys, in mouse options.)

---

### Post by dezier on 2005-11-28
> 2- how can i post my xorg.conf file here?

Open up a console by pressing ctrl+alt+F1

Log in with your account

Since i don't know if you can print or can copy the xorg.conf file to a partition which can be read from Windows i think it might be a good idea to copy it to a floppy.

Put a floppy in the floppy drive, then issue:

```

$ mount /media/floppy0

```

This will mount the floppy so you can read and write to it.

Then copy the xorg.conf file to the floppy:

```

$ cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /media/floppy0

```

Check that you have done all right:

```

$ ls /media/floppy0/

```

The file xorg.conf should be listed.

That would be it. Shutdown the system and boot to Windows. Open the xorg.conf file with Notepad and post it here.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-28
I'll do it now. tnx

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-28
here, it worked:

> # /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"NVIDIA Corporation NV34 [GeForce FX 5200]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


it seems not very comfortable..so here's the file for download:
[http://rapidshare.de/files/8286666/xorg.conf.html](http://rapidshare.de/files/8286666/xorg.conf.html)
press download, then wait 40 seconds and click the link for download.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-28
real real real sorry for the spam but its real real real important to me =\

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2005-11-28
And I real real real have no damn clue on how to fix it :D Why didn't you buy a USB mouse anyway ?

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-28
cause...lol =\
i didnt check the box i just bought it..and i never had a USB mouse before so it doesnt matter much for the pc =\

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-11-28
[quote=SkillZero]1-how can i see if its detected?
i only know that the light of it is on..and in middle of the linux startup (loading screen) it shuts down.[/quote]Go to System / Administration / Device Manager and see if anything in the lines of mouse, ps/2 etc. is detected.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-29
but i can't go there without mouse =\

---

### Post by cjazz on 2005-11-29
[QUOTE=SkillZero]but i can't go there without mouse =\[/QUOTE]

Alt-F1 should get you to the Gnome menu bar. From there, use your arrow keys to navigate to System > Administration > Device Manager.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-11-30
erm..there is no mouse section there.
i did Ctrl+F and searched for 'mouse' and it didnt find anything.
i also searched for 'PS' and it didnt find anything

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-12-02
guysssss plzzzzzzzzz :'(
i am unable to do anything!!!!!

will a format help?

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-12-02
In a virtual terminal (ctrl+alt+f1), type ```
sudo cat /dev/input/mice
``` and move your mouse. See if anything happens.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-12-02
nothing happens. i did it , typed the password , then it went 1 line down.
i did rs and nothing happened (i dont know how to exit this thing)

p.s
the light shuts down in the loading time , when there is "loading modules" (mouse light)

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-12-02
Tell us the output of this command ```
lsmod |grep psmouse
```

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-12-02
```
psmouse 26116 0
```

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-12-02
Weird, the module is loaded as well.. Still, try adding a "psmouse" line to your /etc/modules file.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-12-02
exists already.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-12-02
erm..im real sorry but if i won't jump this thread up, no-body will see it.
anyone?

---

### Post by 23meg on 2005-12-02
Are you sure the mouse isn't damaged? Can you use it in another OS? Maybe it's a hotplug problem; see if you can get it recognized by keeping it unplugged during boot and plugging it in after X starts up.

---

### Post by SkillZero on 2005-12-03
its not damaged, im using it perfectly on Windows XP.
i will try to do what u said, even i dont think it will work.

---

### Post by choptop on 2005-12-06
did you ever figgure out how to make your mouse work?
I have an identical problem.

---

### Post by DrBair on 2005-12-06
Silly me... my mistake.

---

