---
title: "11.10 How to set what physical power button should do?"
date: 2011-11-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by efflandt on 2011-11-15
11.10 Power settings are very brief and do not provide any way to tell Linux what to do when the physical power button on the computer is pressed (I think Maverick and earlier offered a setting to suspend, hibernate, or shut down for PC power button). Is there a setting in a file for that in 11.10?

Recently I have been having some issue with either screen freeze or USB hid input (keyboard/mouse clicks) where mouse cursor still moves, but nothing happens from mouse clicks, scroll wheel or keyboard input (not even Ctrl+Alt+F1, etc. to try to switch to a console), so I have to resort to holding power button for over 5 seconds until it does a hard shut down.  So far the hard shutdowns have not knowingly corrupted a drive since there is no disk activity at the time.

I might just need to remove and reseat my video card, since 64-bit Win7 has been having much more frequent video issues where it temporarily freezes or does a weird pattern, then says that video driver stopped responding, but that it recovered (before and after installing most recent NVIDIA drivers). In Linux I tried both nvidia-current and nvidia-current-updates (both are 64-bit v280.13).

Anyway, since it seems like it might be a video hardware problem, but Linux still seems to be active due to mouse cursor movement, I was wondering if there was a way to set 11.10 to shut down gracefully by pressing the PC power button.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2011-11-16
Maybe I had a flaky HDMI cable.  So far no problems since switching to DVI to HDMI cable.  Although, for some reason grub menu DVI to HDMI has much smaller font than straight HDMI cable.

But I would still like to know if there is a setting somewhere to control what the mechanical power button on the PC does, like earlier Ubuntu versions.

---

