---
title: "10.04 LTS vs 10.10 almost made me go back to Windows."
date: 2010-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MailTheSky88 on 2010-11-16
Back in July I bought an Acer Aspire ONE KAV60 with Xubuntu installed on it.  I used to run Linux a long time ago but had not messed with it for a couple of years and I was surprised to find out how much more "user friendly" Linux had gotten (With Ubuntu anyways).  There are more and more GUI programs/processes now days which makes everything easier to do, however there are a couple of things that I have found in the last few months running Linux only on my little netbook.  

When I downloaded Ubuntu 10.04 LTS Lucid and installed it from the Xubuntu, I was quite satisfied with the general desktop setup and ease of the operating system.  I loved it, it was like going from OS/2 to Win95 all over again!  (I'm not that old, I just started young).

Here recently, I ran into a little problem with 10.04 and had to re-format, but when I went to re-download it the new 10.10 was available instead.  I threw it on a flash drive and installed it on my netbook only to have "problem after problem" upon installation and had downloaded and installed 10.04 from the archives in a matter of a few hours after messing with 10.10.

There were plus sides and down sides to both right off the bat.  I am a nerd I suppose and I have started to play a game called Runescape.  After installing 10.10, I opened up Runescape and was able to use the "Re-sizable" screen option!  That's an amazing option with Runescape on a netbook.  I then opened up my favorite and most used program suite called aircrack-ng.  I had the apparently infamous problem titled "fixed channel mon0: -1" and was completely unable to get it working (even after reading the SOLVED article on here.)  I spent probably 2 hours trying to figure out that problem and was unable to do so.  I cannot be without the aircrack-ng suite so I decided to revert back as I fore mentioned.

Upon reverting back to Lucid LTS from the archives, I was happy with the smoothness of how it runs on my netbook compared to 10.10, but as soon as I logged onto that damn game Runescape, I was on a mission to figure out how to correct the "fixed channel mon0: -1" issue on 10.10 so I could have the re-sizable screen option again.

I finally figured out that I needed (from a fresh install on 10.10) to do apt-get install patch and apt-get install gcc before I could complete the steps of the SOLVED issue guide.  This was never mentioned and it made me realize I still need to know what I'm doing if I'm going to run Linux and then maybe I won't have all these issues.

Out of all this, I have a couple of questions and would like to learn more about Linux so I do not have these problems in the future.  Here are a couple of questions I would like to mention first:

What is gcc?  I had all that trouble just because I didn't know to install gcc to do the tutorial.

I believe the re-sizable screen option is available for me in 10.10 and not 10.04 because of Java.  I did not have to install Java in 10.10 at all, I just opened up Runescape "out of the box".  In 10.04, I use Sun Java with the apt-get command in Terminal.  Does anybody have any information to confirm or deny this?

Once I got aircrack-ng working in 10.10, I was surprised to find out that it is amazingly fast compared to 10.04.  I believe this has to do with drivers.  I was able to use aircrack-ng (after install) "out of the box" with 10.04 so I did not download the "compat wireless" drivers that had to be used in 10.10 to get it to work.

If I were to revert back to Ubuntu 10.04 (I much prefer Lucid for my netbook, runs much better), would I theoretically be able to download a different Java and use the re-sizable option on Runescape?  Would I also be able to use the "compat wireless" drivers in 10.04 to make aircrack-ng send and receive arp's and ack's so much quicker?

Last but not least, I would like some sources if possible to better learn Linux from.  I mean Terminal type Linux, I do appreciate (as I said earlier) the new GUIs that are available now and I didn't have before, but I still feel the need to know my way around the system and I just don't have that knowledge.  Any help on this one would be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by yuki-nagato on 2010-11-16
gcc is the GNU compiler collection which is used for compiling a variety of programs in C.
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Compiler_Collection](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Compiler_Collection)

Java is installed by default on 10.10 (it is on my system and I have not manually installed it)

as for aircrack, I would imagine that the major issue for the install is getting the right repository for the newest version which is available in 10.10

If you wish to learn Linux a bit more thoroughly I would recommend running Slackware or Sabayon (which is Gentoo based) under virtualbox-ose  which allows you to do pretty much anything to either of them inside the virtual machine with no danger whatsoever.

linux commands:
[http://www.oreillynet.com/linux/cmd/](http://www.oreillynet.com/linux/cmd/)

keyboard shortcuts for the terminal
[http://www.unixguide.net/linux/linuxshortcuts.shtml](http://www.unixguide.net/linux/linuxshortcuts.shtml)

alternatively, try out the man command to list the manual text for each command of interest.  it shows the use and flags of each command as well as a short desription for what each does.

eg.man has its own manual page so the command "man man" has the command man bring up its own manual page.

---

### Post by MailTheSky88 on 2010-11-20
Thanks for your quick descriptive reply Yuki!  You went the extra mile with giving resources for commands in terminal and keyboard shortcuts too and I definitely appreciate that.

---

### Post by JoeGoalie on 2010-12-27
What are you using to play Runescape? I can't seem to figure out how to play it on my computer. I'm using 10.10 x64.

---

