---
title: "NTFS and an External Hard Drive"
date: 2007-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thegoosier on 2007-05-31
I have a 320GB seagape external hard drive with an NTFS file system and i couldn't read or write to it so some bright spark directed me to Automatix  and i installed  the NTFS file sytem conversion thing and everything seemed to work well with my external hard drive.
But when i went to unmount it or eject it it said that i couldn't because i didn't have access to the root....so i just pulled the USB cable out anyway, and now of course it doesnt work, i tried on another computer and it works fine and i looked in the hardware information and i can see it there in the usb bit.

But i don't know how to access it, any help please?

---

### Post by arnieboy on 2007-05-31
> **thegoosier said:**
> I have a 320GB seagape external hard drive with an NTFS file system and i couldn't read or write to it so some bright spark directed me to Automatix  and i installed  the NTFS file sytem conversion thing and everything seemed to work well with my external hard drive.
But when i went to unmount it or eject it it said that i couldn't because i didn't have access to the root....so i just pulled the USB cable out anyway, and now of course it doesnt work, i tried on another computer and it works fine and i looked in the hardware information and i can see it there in the usb bit.

But i don't know how to access it, any help please?

you should not let Automatix mount USB drives because it will make them root mountable by adding it to ***/etc/fstab***. So always unplug USB drives before running AX Mounter.
This situation can be easily resolved though.
Please paste the output of the following commands:
```
cat /etc/fstab
```
and 
```
sudo fdisk -l 
```

---

### Post by thegoosier on 2007-06-01
Thanks very much that is a real help. I'll try this later

---

### Post by thegoosier on 2007-06-01
Hey arnieboy and whoever else can lend a hawnd. Here is the code for the two commands. Not sure what i do now?


paul@paul-laptop:~$ cat /etc/fstab
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda5
UUID=e80fd57b-31e7-4e9e-bfa1-3608bbbf775b /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda6
UUID=99acd67e-f880-4f3a-a494-59a0541a67b7 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/sda2   /media/sda2   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/sdb1   /media/sdb1   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions



paul@paul-laptop:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 58.5 GB, 58506416640 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 7113 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1          10       80293+  de  Dell Utility
/dev/sda2   *          11        2895    23173762+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3            6721        7112     3148740   db  CP/M / CTOS / ...
/dev/sda4            2896        6720    30724312+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5   *        2896        6557    29414983+  83  Linux
/dev/sda6            6558        6720     1309266   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order

Disk /dev/sdb: 320.0 GB, 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1               1       38913   312568641    7  HPFS/NTFS

---

### Post by arnieboy on 2007-06-01
Unplug your USB drive.
open up*** /etc/fstab*** as root thusly:
```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab
```
and **delete** the following line from the file which opens up:
> dev/sdb1 /media/sdb1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
save the file and close it and then restart your computer and then plug in your NTFS drive.

---

### Post by thegoosier on 2007-06-05
Sorry for the late reply..was awwy at the weekend but thanks a lot for the help, it's back up and running now but i can write to it. I tried running  the NTFS config program that came with ubuntu and it's the same problem with the unmounting. If i go thorugh the process that you set out, i can get it unmounted and then it mounts again but it doesn't seem the safest for the data so i'm going to put another partition on it with ext3 filesystem

Thanks again for the help

---

