---
title: "How does SSH Work?"
date: 2008-08-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dash86no on 2008-08-03
Guys,

Sorry, I tried to post this in the "absolute beginner" section, but for some reason my account is not permitted to start a thread there (?)

I just want a quick guide on how SSH works, with a focus on the public/private key encryption process. 

I have done a lot of reading around the internet, and have come to the following conclusion:

1: Public and Private keys exist on the SSH server.(let's say 10.10.0.1) They were generated by the server Admin at the time SSH was first set up.

2: A user (10.10.0.30) attempts to ssh into the server (10.10.0.1). The server sends its PUBLIC KEY to the user.

3: The user checks to see if the PUBLIC KEY exists already in its system. If not, the user is warned that this key is not in the system. Once the user accepts the key, it is added to the trusted list.

4: The user (10.10.0.30) uses the server's PUBLIC KEY to encrypt all communications to the server (10.10.0.1). At the initial stage, this would include user name, password. 

5: The user (10.10.0.30) also sends it's PUBLIC KEY to the server. (This is NOT the same as the Server's PUBLIC KEY). This is generated newly per every new SSH session(??)

6: The server uses it's own PRIVATE KEY to decrypt all communications from the user. (Which the user encrypted using the server's PUBLIC KEY) The server then uses the user's PUBLIC KEY to encrypt all communications before sending them on to the user. 

7: The user then uses it's PRIVATE KEY to decrypt all communications send by the server. (Which the server encrypted using the user's PUBLIC KEY) 

8: No one other than the server can decrypt packets encrypted with the server's PUBLIC KEY (Because only the server knows its own PRIVATE KEY). 

9: No one other than the client can decrypt packets encrypted with the client's PUBLIC KEY (Because only the client knows its own PRIVATE KEY)

10: Points 8 & 9 work because the PUBLIC and PRIVATE keys are both huge primary numbers that are mathematically related, but would require an unimaginable number of calculations/computing power to derive one from the other. 

so for example:

1: John types ssh 10.10.0.1
2: 10.10.0.1 sends its public key to john
3: John's computer sees that this key is not in the trusted list
4: John elects to trust the key
5: John's computer uses the server's public key to encrypt user name, password (his login for the server - this has nothing to do with SSH encryption). Also, John's computer includes John's public key with this transmission (Although there is really no need to encrypt public keys)
6: The server receives the packet sent by John, and uses it's own private key to decrypt the information.
7: The server then uses John's public key to encrypt the successful login message, and sends this to John.
8: John's computer uses John's private key to decrypt the message sent by the server. 
9: John sees the "Login Successful" message on his screen. 


Am I right in these assumptions? 

Cheers

---

### Post by Seti on 2008-08-03
Sounds like you have a good thorough understanding of how ssh works in a nutshell.

---

### Post by dash86no on 2008-08-04
> **Seti said:**
> Sounds like you have a good thorough understanding of how ssh works in a nutshell.

K, cheers.

---

### Post by sherl0ck on 2009-03-31
I think you are missing the part about the session key. 

[http://www.eng.cam.ac.uk/help/jpmg/ssh/ssh-detail.html](http://www.eng.cam.ac.uk/help/jpmg/ssh/ssh-detail.html)

---

### Post by ioan123 on 2009-06-20
As a matter of fact, I understand that the private / public keys are use *only* for authentication. The session key is used to encrypt the data. More information here [http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/4413](http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/4413)
Ioan

---

