---
title: "./configure and libraries"
date: 2008-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kaharas on 2008-01-31
Hi all.
Yesterday has been released the 1.3.15 version of wesnoth, and I decided to try it.
To do it, I needed to compile the game from the source... not a problem I told myself.
So, i downloaded the tar file, unpacked it, read the INSTALL file in it, and, after having installed all the required libraries, I typed ./configure.
This is the output:
> 
**root@midlands:/home/auron/wesnoth-1.3.15# ./configure **
checking build system type... i686-pc-linux-gnu
checking host system type... i686-pc-linux-gnu
...
...
[B]checking for IMG_Load in -lSDL_image... no
configure: error: *** SDL_image lib not found! Get SDL_image from
[http://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_image/index.html](http://www.libsdl.org/projects/SDL_image/index.html)[/B]

Well, I thinked that the library was missing ( the error is quite selfexplaining ).  The problem is that those libraries are installed in my system
> 
**root@midlands:/home/auron/wesnoth-1.3.15# dpkg -l | grep sdl**
ii  libsdl-console                             1.3-4                                console that can be added to any SDL applica
ii  libsdl-gfx1.2-4                            2.0.13-3                             drawing and graphical effects extension for 
ii  libsdl-gfx1.2-dev                          2.0.13-3                             development files for SDL_gfx
ii  libsdl-image1.2                            1.2.5-3                              image loading library for Simple DirectMedia
ii  libsdl-image1.2-dev                        1.2.5-3                              development files for SDL 1.2 image loading 



I've used the search button, but all the problems I've found was related to those libraries missing... the question is, what should i do, or why this happens?

PS: no, i can't set the libsdl-image1.2[-dev] path myself
> 
root@midlands:/home/auron/wesnoth-1.3.15# ./configure --help | grep sdl
  --disable-sdltest       do not try to compile and run a test SDL program

I've also tried to configure using this option, but the error is always there ...

---

### Post by geraldm on 2008-01-31
checking for IMG_Load in -lSDL_image... no
configure: error: *** SDL_image lib not found! Get SDL_image from

At some point the function IMG_Load was added to the library SDL_image.  The error comes from seeking that function in the library you have, and it is not found.  Usually this would be due to a newer release of that library.  Check any files in the wesnoth release to see what  minimum version of SDL_image is required.  If a newer version of SDL_image works for you, then notify the packager that the 1.2.5 version is not new enough.  The most recent version is 1.2.6

Edit: It is possible that the configure script does not correctly find the function that should be there.  (The function was declared external in the 1.2.4 header)  There should be a log file that would provide more information.

Gerald

---

