---
title: "12.04 slow and laggy on laptop."
date: 2012-09-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Unkins on 2012-09-18
My laptop has been running slowly since I installed Ubuntu 12.04  a few months ago. Almost everything has a slight lag to it. It takes a second for the text to appear after I type it. My laptop is a Lenovo Ideapad Y560p with Intel Core™ i7-2630QM CPU and Radeon 6570m graphics. It can run Left 4 Dead 2 at almost the highest settings with no problem in Windows 7 and can't even run Ubuntu smoothly? I suspect the CPU load distribution is the problem. It is getting frustrating, but the system is still usable. I posted a thread a while ago but didn't get a response (probably because I accidentally posted it in the wrong section #-o) 

"Ubuntu 12.04 has a slight lag/stutter and I notice that the CPU load is  distributed very unevenly in the System Monitor. I have an Intel Core™  i7-2630QM 2 GHz in my Lenovo Ideapad Y560p. It's a quad core with  hyperthreading so it shows as 8 CPUs. CPU 1 usualy has 80-100% load, and  CPU's 2, 3, and 4 have about 20%, while CPU's 7 and 8 are usually 0-5%.  I can't disable the Hyperthreading in the BIOS because it is a laptop. I  watch alot of youtube videos, and it is frustrating watching the videos  stutter and skip while a good portion of my CPU is being unused.   

Is there a way to assign CPU 7 and 8 to Firefox and help decode the  flash or at least have Ubuntu evenly distribute the processing load  evenly and increase system speed and response? I'm fairly new to Linux  and did some google searches, but did not see anything related to this  problem. "

---

