---
title: "11.10 won't boot consistently -- purple screen"
date: 2011-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by justinmiller621 on 2011-12-03
Ever since upgrading to Ubuntu 11.10 from 11.04, I can't boot consistently. It seems that every other reboot fails at the purple screen of death. 

I've modified my grub options to remove quiet and splash, and I've added both nomodeset and text as options (not at the same time though). When it DOES boot, I can see what's going on during startup as expected, but when it doesn't boot, it just hangs at the purple screen so I have no idea where it's hung.

I know others have had these problems. I've already made the /var/run -> /run  and /var/lock -> /run/lock changes. Additionally, I've removed everything under /run/dbus. 

The only thing that the machine does respond to when I get the purple screen is a ctrl-alt-delete. ctrl-alt-fkeys doesn't work.

Any thoughts here?

Thanks,
Justin

---

### Post by ikt on 2011-12-03
Do you see anything special or anything that stands out in the system logs?

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-12-03
You should provide details about your hardware, else it will almost be impossible to go into details.

---

### Post by justinmiller621 on 2011-12-03
Unfortunately nothing stands out. I'm not even sure it gets to a point where it starts logging. Almost immediately it seems to freeze up.

Hardware details:

i5-2500k
Gigabyte z68-flavor motherboard
OS is on a non-RAIDed drive
I have another 3 drives in a RAID 5
No discrete graphics (b/c of the cpu/motherboard)

Any other details you need?

Thanks,
Justin

---

### Post by Spyderkid on 2011-12-03
People who have upgraded rather than done a fresh install seem to be suffering the same problem, from slow bootup, to no bootup at all.

The only thing I've found out so far which helps, is to do a fresh install of Ubuntu (re-format the drive before install)

Sorry I can't be of more help

---

### Post by Spyderkid on 2011-12-03
Also try booting up into safe mode, run 
sudo fsck
in the root shell, this seems to fix alot of problems sometimes.

---

### Post by justinmiller621 on 2011-12-03
Spyderkid,

Yeah, I'd seen reports that a fresh install does the trick... My one concern is my RAID. Assuming I'm careful not to disturb the disks that are raided during the fresh install, how can I restore my config? Should I copy my mdadm.conf to a different machine before reinstalling and restore it afterwards? Would that be enough... and safe?

I'll try an fsck first though.

Justin

---

