---
title: "6.10 Live CD video problem"
date: 2006-12-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nightowl512 on 2006-12-23
I have the ubuntu 6.06 CD that I got in the mail, I also have the version 6.10 that I downloaded and wrote to a CD myself.  I have been running the live CD of both to try and decide which version I want to install to the hard drive.  Heres the problem I have been having.

The version 6.06 runs perfectly on my computer.  Everything runs fast, the graphics are smooth.  The only problem I have with it is that I can't use my HP f335 printer with it.  I realize that I could probaly resolve this issue if I were to actually install the OS to my hard drive where I could apply updates.

The version 6.10 boots up great, and initally everything looks fine until I open Firefox, or any other program in which I need th scroll.  While scrolling the graphics become extreamly choppy and slow.  It takes forever to work my way down a webpage.  I have tried using smooth scrolling in Firefox, this helps a little but doesn't solve the problem.

Heres are my questions.....
 - If I install 6.06 will I be able to install the f335 printer?
 - Is the problem I am having with the live CD 6.10 limited to the live CD session and likely  clear up after I do a normal install of the OS?
 - are there any suggestions on how to fix the choppy graphics on 6.10 so that I can fully try out that version.

I have a stock Emachine W3118 from Wal-Mart.
FIC motherboard [My Motherboard]("http://www.fic.com.tw/product/motherboard/amd/k8mc51g.aspx")
Nvidia C51G onboard video.
Westinghouse 20.1" monitor running 1280x1024 resolution.

NightOwl

---

### Post by dbbolton on 2006-12-23
if you decide to install, i would recommend 6.06

most hp printers work well with linux in my experience.

---

### Post by nightowl512 on 2006-12-23
> **dbbolton said:**
> if you decide to install, i would recommend 6.06

most hp printers work well with linux in my experience.

OK, I have heard that.  I guess my printer is a newer model that 6.06 doesn't detect right out of the box.

---

### Post by nightowl512 on 2006-12-31
Anyone got anymore ideas?

---

