---
title: "19.04 - Why doesn't ~ work?"
date: 2019-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-09-01
When executing this command:

       scrot /home/macro/tmp/clip.png -e 'xclip -selection c -t image/png < $f'       

Everything works 100%.

But when changing it to this:

 scrot ~/tmp/clip.png -e 'xclip -selection c -t image/png < $f' 

Nothing works at all. I don't understand what's wrong here. Help is highly appreciated :)


EDIT: I can narrow it down:
scrot ~/tmp/clip.png doesn't work.
scrot /home/macro/tmp/clip.png works perfectly.

I'm totally stumped here.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-09-01
First, if you're doing this with sudo, ~ will point to root's home directory /root.

If not, what directory do you end up in if you enter "cd ~"?

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-09-01
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> First, if you're doing this with sudo, ~ will point to root's home directory /root.

If not, what directory do you end up in if you enter "cd ~"?

I'm _not_ doing this with sudo, I'm at home (bash): **macro@macro-pc: ~$** 
Entering **cd ~** lands me in [B]macro@macro-pc: ~$

[/B]This is a mystery to me.

---

### Post by spjackson on 2019-09-01
What's the output of "echo ~"?
> 
scrot ~/tmp/clip.png doesn't work.
scrot /home/macro/tmp/clip.png works perfectly.

Define "doesn't work". Do you get any error message?
What's your shell? i.e. what's the output of "echo $0"?

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-09-01
> **spjackson said:**
> What's the output of "echo ~"?

Define "doesn't work". Do you get any error message?
What's your shell? i.e. what's the output of "echo $0"?

echo ~  gives /home/macro

echo $0  gives /bin/bash

"doesn't work" means nothing happens. With the full path I get a screenshot in /home/macro/tmp, with ~/tmp I get... nothing. No error messages, nothing.

I'll now do a HDD search for "clip.png", perhaps that'll bring something.

---

### Post by spjackson on 2019-09-02
> **ml9104 said:**
> echo ~  gives /home/macro

Good. This shows that tilde expansion is operating correctly.
> **ml9104 said:**
> 
echo $0  gives /bin/bash

Good. This explains why tilde expansion is operating correctly: we have normal bash behaviour.

> **ml9104 said:**
> 
"doesn't work" means nothing happens. With the full path I get a screenshot in /home/macro/tmp, with ~/tmp I get... nothing. No error messages, nothing.

I'll now do a HDD search for "clip.png", perhaps that'll bring something.
Tidle expansion means that the 'scrot' program is seeing an identical argument in both cases, provided of course that we don't have any non-displayable characters involved and neither aliasing nor shell functions are involved.

So, if it is indeed the case that
```

scrot /home/macro/tmp/clip.png

```
creates the file /home/macro/tmp/clip.png and
```

scrot ~/tmp/clip.png

```
does not create the file /home/macro/tmp/clip.png then I have no further ideas, I'm afraid.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2019-09-02
Nothing to do with scrot, just lose the ~/
Your terminal prompt is already at home directory (i.e ~/), so not needed.

```
scrot tmp/clip.png 
```

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-09-02
> **mc4man said:**
> Nothing to do with scrot, just lose the ~/
Your terminal prompt is already at home directory (i.e ~/), so not needed.

```
scrot tmp/clip.png 
```


@mc4man: Brilliant!

My screen capture now works 100% with all users after dropping ~/ and just using clip.png as the target file name for scrot. The file lands in the home directory of the user every time.

Thank You x100!

I still don't understand the problems with ~/ but that's an issue for the gurus.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2019-09-03
If this is related to your [previous question]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2425362&p=13881822#post13881822") and you're executing those commands from a keyboard shortcut then it's not surprising that the variant with '~/' doesn't work. Tilde-expansion is done by the shell. There's no shell involved when executing commands from keyboard shortcuts, so the tilde does not get expanded. You could work around that by explicitly calling a shell in your shortcut definition and passing the command as a parameter
```
bash -c "scrot ~/tmp/clip.png -e 'xclip  -selection c -t image/png < $f'"
```
but since it works without this I wouldn't bother.
Holger

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-09-03
@Holger:

Thank You for your feedback. Yes, it's related to my previous question, but I now have a perfectly working solution

For a newbie, the differences between a shell and the system is very difficult to understand. Your explanation makes perfect sense, but for myself is getting there difficult.

---

