---
title: "12.10, Goldendict, indexing dictionaries takes forever"
date: 2012-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by amr-maro on 2012-10-22
In Ubuntu 12.10, Goldendict takes forever to index dictionaries as if it goes into an endless loop. I have multiple dictionaries inside a single folder. Does anyone experience this?

---

### Post by vasilbelarus on 2012-10-22
1. I have a lot of dictionaryes for goldendict and allways it takes some time to index them after reinstalling the system, usually it is 5 -10 minutes for me, but if you have old machine try to wait anymore.
2. See if you have permissions to read all dictionaryes files.
3. Try to put any dictionary(es) into different folder and try to index only this folder.

---

### Post by amr-maro on 2012-10-22
Thanks for your reply :) Sorry, I didn't make myself clear. Indexing actually never stops. In Ubuntu 12.04, yes, indexing takes some time, but it finishes. However, in Ubuntu 12.10, indexing goes forever. I filled this bug [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/goldendict/+bug/1069486](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/goldendict/+bug/1069486).

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-10-22
I would be interested to know if you also find the same problem I had with Goldendict.  About  year ago I replaced stardict with goldendict, as I understood stardict was deprecated and no longer supported or developed.  However whenever I used GD to check a word's spelling or similar my ~/.xsession-errors file suddenly became huge, increasing at an alarming rate.  This is in Lucid gnome DE

That worried me a lot, so I went back to stardict and that problem has disappeared.  Any thoughts?

---

### Post by vasilbelarus on 2012-10-26
I now that goldendict automatically try to find dictionaries in different folders - usr/share/stardict is one of them, so may be you should try to delete it.

---

### Post by Alromaiky on 2012-12-06
yes yes yes i have the same problem le
my machine just very new using ubuntu 12.10
i'm trying to install just 6 BGL dictionaries on golden dict 
i try a lot , remove and reinstall the goldendict
i put the dictionaries every one in isolated folders and then  indexed it one bye one 
and the same problem after the 3d or 4th dictionary 


so any one can help in this pls

---

### Post by amr-maro on 2012-12-06
I'm afraid I didn't find any solution for this issue. The only thing I managed to do is to add the dictionaries individually until they are added correctly. I also encourage everyone who is affected by this issue to mark this bug [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/goldendict/+bug/1069486](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/goldendict/+bug/1069486)

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2012-12-06
Goldendict works fine and I also put the tts files for voice support, on initial start it takes some time to index but that would be 15 seconds at the most and this on variety of machines from small netbooks to i7 laptops to bulldozer desktop.

---

### Post by amr-maro on 2012-12-07
I have a laptop with an Intel Pentium Dual Core that suffers from this bug.

---

### Post by hyfanious on 2012-12-14
same here

---

### Post by ianni67 on 2012-12-16
I posted a question in the forum in the Goldendict project website.
There is a workaround: install the "portable version" and it will work.

---

### Post by DrAlbert on 2013-03-20
SOLVED
I had same problem. I tried many advise but none of those solved the problem except this one:
[http://myridia.com/dev_posts/view/237](http://myridia.com/dev_posts/view/237)
you should convert .bgl to .index dictionary.

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]1.install[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman] dictconv[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]sudo apt-get install dictconv[/FONT][/COLOR]
[FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=3][COLOR=#000000]
2.[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]Convert the babylon file BLG into the freedict format:[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]dictconv Babylon_dictionary_filename.bgl -o [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]Babylon_dictionary_outpu_filename[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman].index[/FONT][/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]3.[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]copy the .index and .dict files to babylon dictionary folder. (remember to delete the original .bgl files in [/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Times New Roman]babylon dictionary folder)[/FONT][/COLOR]
[FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=3][COLOR=#000000]4. rescan the folder in babylon menu.[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]

---

