---
title: "AA 17.10 fresh install Slow SSD Performance"
date: 2017-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pointy2 on 2017-11-20
On a fresh new laptop, I installed AA 17.10 (beautiful interface, btw), on i7 KabyLake archetecture with 8gb DDR4 memory. Ubuntu 17.10 seems to have poor performance on startup and shutdown. The executution of programs seem to be slower than the oem install of a different operating system. 

As a noob to Linux, I didn't think of optimizing the SSD for Linux, as I've since been reading that must be done for optimal speed and performance. I'd like to wipe the SSD and start over....is that recommended? And, is there a good guide on optimising an SSD for Linux Ubuntu?

---

### Post by pointy2 on 2017-11-20
EDIT> Upon rechcking the install partitions, this doesn't look right to me. I had planned on about 10-20gb at the end of the drive to be untouchable. What I would like to do is completely erase this setup since FF has residual preferences and settings still recognized. 
During re-install, the box was ticked to write entire drive. I'm confused.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-11-20
If Kabylake, you should install in UEFI mode.
How did you install? 
Which install option did you choose?
Install should have partition all on correct boundaries. Only a couple minor settings may be required or optional.

Post this:
sudo parted -l

More info on UEFI install in link below.

---

### Post by pointy2 on 2017-11-21
The installs were both done in UEFI mode. First was FDE default install. After upgrading and delving into security parameters, I was inspired to change the partitioning of the SSD while reading many posts on the effiiency and ease of recovery, if and when needed. 
The second re-write was via the 'something else' method with FDE (same pass). Having attempted to set the diff ./root, /home, /boot, /swap partitions, I was alerted to an error in the setup. Having backed out of that, I selected the deault and decided to tackle the partitioning after I became acclimated with Ubuntu and my needs. 

I just want completely erase the SSD and get on with my work. 

Using the "try Ubuntu" selection on the live USB, I ran that command and gparted to gain insight of the partitioning. It shows that it's 100% full with 15mb free. HTFDTH?
Can I run dd command from the corrupted system? I've tried through the live USB and cannot get a password for the execution.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-11-21
What are you trying to do with dd. Its nickname is Data Destroyer as any typo or incorrect command often causes irretrievable loss of data.

Generally desktop installs do not need /boot partition, but some with server type installs or LVM or full drive encryption may have a /boot partition.

With 17.04 or later a swap partition is not used by default. It uses a swap file. But if swap partition is found it will use it.

Post you current partitions so we can review what has occurred.

---

### Post by pointy2 on 2017-11-22
Before I read this post, I forced a reinstall of 17.10 on this 256MB SSD. I was aware of the Data Destroyer moniker, as that was my objective. Right now, all seems to be good as far as partitioning goes, at least for a default install, this time without FDE. Still, there seems to be a couplle of errors that are alerted, which I'd like to rectify.  

The new partitions are::
dev/sda1   EFI System Partition     fat321       /boot/efi            512MB     used:5.61MB       flags:boot/esp
dev/sda2                                         ext4          /                         237.97GB         10.85GB

---

