---
title: "14.04 hangs up"
date: 2016-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by derwalroszsagt on 2016-09-25
Hello all.  I'm still learning.
I have an old  32bit machine (vintage 2004) on which I have 2 hard drives.  I have Ubuntu 12.04 installed as well as Debian and Mint.  They are all on separate partitions.  I use this computer for trying different things with Linux and to become more familiar with it. I am an old guy with too much time on my hands I guess.  I booted 12.04 without any problems and got a "update to 14.04" pop-up.  I agreed to the upgrade and it began the process without problems.  All the packages downloaded without problems but when the install step began I got a black screen with a tty computer login required.  I tried all the user names and passwords I had without success.  I tried to reboot 12.04 in recovery mode but all that shows up is the black screen with the tty login.  I tried the cont-alt drill also without success.  I checked on the problem and got the information that it was a swap problem.  Well I really don't know how to deal with that and would appreciate some guidance if you have any to offer.  Starting new is no problem (I have the old disks) and there is noting on the machine of any value to me so that is also no problem.  Any suggestions are appreciated.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-09-26
I understand that debian and mint still work. That's something at least.

It would help if you gave some more details on your hardware. CPU, ram, graphics hardware, hard drive partitioning.

Release upgrades gone wrong are very hard to fix. Usually it's best to simply install the new release over the failed upgrade. When you get 14.04 running, it will tell you the upgrade to 16.04 is available. You could install that right away from a live disk, skipping 14.04. Or you may prefer to switch to a lighter flavour, because I doubt Ubuntu 16.04 (or 14.04) will run very well on such an old machine.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-09-27
> **derwalroszsagt said:**
> ...I got a black screen with a tty computer login required.  I tried all the user names and passwords I had without success.

The account user name and password when you set the machine up would be what you want to use. 

> I tried to reboot 12.04 in recovery mode but all that shows up is the black screen with the tty login.  I tried the cont-alt drill also without success.  I checked on the problem and got the information that it was a swap problem.

More detail on the actual error would be helpful.

> Starting new is no problem (I have the old disks) and there is noting on the machine of any value to me so that is also no problem.  Any suggestions are appreciated.

+1 A good opportunity to get a pristine install. It really depends on whether you want to invest the time fixing the issue :)

> **Impavidus said:**
> ..Or you may prefer to switch to a lighter flavour, because I doubt Ubuntu 16.04 (or 14.04) will run very well on such an old machine.

Funnily enough, 16.04.1 might be ok with [low graphics mode]("https://insights.ubuntu.com/2016/09/19/low-graphics-mode-in-unity-7").

---

### Post by derwalroszsagt on 2016-10-03
Thanks to all that responded.  
 I gave up on the tty thing and started anew.  My computer is a vintage 2004 pc with a dual CPU Intel motherboard, and 2G of RAM.   I tried another PATA 40 GB hard drive, downloaded and burned a new iso and started again. A check of the bios at startup showed everything was normal w/r/t the drive, boot sequence etc. I booted from the new DVD, chose Install>erase disk and everything went well until near the end when everything hung up.  I noticed that the cap lock and scroll lock lights on the keyboard were flashing in sync and the mouse was dead.  I did notice on the black screen at startup, notifications of core temperature above threshold and something about the clock but everything cranked along OK. I checked my the computer fans and they were working OK. I repeated this drill a couple of times with the same result except the hang-up occurred at different points in the installation.  In all cases the mouse crashed and the scroll lock and cap lock lights flashed in sync.    Any insight and suggestions are appreciated.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2016-10-04
I'm responding because I am also experiencing “[COLOR=#000000]cap lock and scroll lock lights on the keyboard flashing in sync[/COLOR]” and my Ubuntu 14.04 frequently crashes.

I'm using an old Dell Inspiron 1720 laptop.

I found one thread explaining that the sync flashing is an error indication.

“try reseating memory modules”

[http://www.tomsguide.com/forum/75334-35-solution-scroll-lock-caplock-lights-blinking-laptop-booting](http://www.tomsguide.com/forum/75334-35-solution-scroll-lock-caplock-lights-blinking-laptop-booting)

I'll start looking at memory.

[Later edit]

Also found this ...

[http://en.community.dell.com/support-forums/laptop/f/3518/t/18730229](http://en.community.dell.com/support-forums/laptop/f/3518/t/18730229)

---

### Post by derwalroszsagt on 2016-10-08
Thank you dragonfly41 for the reply: 


I shut down the machine for the night and before starting again I opened the case and removed and replaced the memory sticks as you suggested.  I rebooted with the new DVD and this time everything worked ok.  I did get an error report that advised "can't access ExecutablePath /usr/share/apport/apport-gtk.  I looked at the details of the error and it included in part:   Apport version: 2.14-ubuntu3.21 and Problem type: KernalOops.  I reported it and then everything worked OK for about 1 or 2 hours and again hung but without the flashing scroll and caps lock lights.  The mouse was dead however.  I began to suspect a temperature problem because I recall in the long past this computer tended to be very temperature sensitive.  All the fans were working.  I opened the panel and placed a small 4 inch fan inside directed at the CPU.  I rebooted and it continued to work OK.  This morning I started again with the temp fan configuration and turned on the internet connection immediately.  Everything booting without incident.  I successfully updated 14.04 so I hope all the difficulties are resolved.  I guess this closes the thread for now and again thank you all for your replies and suggestions.

---

