---
title: "11.04: Can't open Time and Date settings"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-04-28
Hi,

Since my clean install of 11.04 using the Unity desktop (takes a little getting used to) I notice I cannot adjust the system clock any more... 

I usually configure Ubuntu to sync to an internet time server but this is no longer possible as I cannot open the System Settings > Time and Date dialog. :(

Can anyone reproduce this or am I the only one?

---

### Post by RJ12 on 2011-04-28
Try clicking on the Clock in the indicator area and then going to "Time and Date Settings", does that open it for you?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-04-28
However you open it you have to click on the little lock icon to get password prompt, ect..

---

### Post by Failing_fast on 2011-04-29
I'm having the same problem, except I upgraded from 10.10. No errors in logs or in interface. 

I've tried to open it from the apps screen and through the clock dropdown, neither works and or prompts for password.

---

### Post by macvelli on 2011-04-29
Same problem here. Click on clock, select Time & Date Settings and nothing happens.

Even searched for Time & Date app in Unity Dash, clicked on application icon and nothing.

---

### Post by bmett on 2011-04-29
+1
Have the same issue after upgrading from 10.10. 
I also have to report that Filezilla (3.3.5.1) is crashing on an irregular basis.
Hope someone can fix both issues quickly.
Cheers,
bmett

---

### Post by DieseL1988 on 2011-04-30
Same problem here, clean install.

---

### Post by NunonuN on 2011-04-30
I have exactly the same problem and my installation is a fresh one, on a Dell Latitude D420.
I tried to open both the "Time & Date Settings" under the panel that appears after clicking on the clock and by searching for the application under the Unity Dash. None worked, i.e., I click on both and nothing happens.

---

### Post by Anaqreon on 2011-04-30
Same problem for me. I upgraded from 10.10 via the Update Manager.

---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-05-01
Very strange... Tried again today and it's working!

Now I get a Time and date window where I can change clock settings and (after entering password) change the system date/time and location. I see it's using time server sync by default now so I don't need to do anything after all ;)

Don't think I did any updates since the last time I tried and it failed to open at all. Weird this...

---

### Post by roddie on 2011-05-01
I have the same problem on a D410.

---

### Post by bestpato on 2011-05-01
Hi everyone,

I had the same problem after upgrading Ubuntu.
I was checking for bugs and I saw this in the gnome-system-tools changelog:

> 
gnome-system-tools (2.32.0-0ubuntu6) natty; urgency=low

  * Split time-admin into its own package, gnome-time-admin, so we can
    include it in certain flavors but not others.  LP: 732757

 -- Michael Terry <mterry@ubuntu.com>  Mon, 14 Mar 2011 10:33:58 -0400
So, I installed the "gnome-time-admin" package and everything works fine again!

Hope this helps

---

### Post by aqk on 2011-05-01
My Ubuntu 11.04  AMD64 DLed & installed on April 29th. - 

The "time and date settings" in the the digital clock in top-right does nothing when it is clicked.
As well, if I click on the Time and date in the Control center, it seems to go into a loop-  i.e.  the hourglass shows,  until I shut the Control-center down.

 =====================
Addendum:  OK FIXED! I did as suggested in previous message above:
  Here's how in somewhat more detail: 

 in Terminal, do a 
     **[COLOR="Red"]sudo apt-get install gnome-time-admin[/COLOR]**  
   which will (re-)install it,

And then RE-BOOT.    
  The Time & Date settings should now be accessible.
  Thanx.

---

### Post by Gvidas S. on 2011-05-01
Had the same problem. In the 'log in' screen chose English (United Kingdom) language, couldn't access Time & Date Settings. After choosing English (United States) the problem was gone. Very peculiar.

---

### Post by scialen on 2011-05-02
> **Gvidas S. said:**
> Had the same problem. In the 'log in' screen chose English (United Kingdom) language, couldn't access Time & Date Settings. After choosing English (United States) the problem was gone. Very peculiar.

I tried what you did and my problem was solved.

---

### Post by foodmonkey on 2011-05-02
i had a sort of similar prob - had a clean install. datetime indicator in panel ok. installed weather indicator - still ok. added a second user and logged into that user and had some weird mishmash of classic and unity.

now have lost datetime indicator from panel altogether.

deleted second user and restarted. still nothing. removed and reinstalled indicator-datetime - nothing.

then about ten minutes ago it just decided to pop up.

may not help you guys - but something screwy going on if you go from unity to classic mode.

---

### Post by foodmonkey on 2011-05-02
oh - and further to that last post try from a terminal

indicator-datetime-preferences

see if that can help.

---

### Post by non-prophet on 2011-05-03
I have upgraded 10.10 to 11.04 and have the 'no date-time settings' problem also. 

As suggested, I tried adding gnome-time-admin via Synaptic PM, re-booted and nothing happened. I did an Update using the Update Manager, then tried adding gnome-time-admin again (don't ask me why!!) and still have the problem. :sad:

Re 11.04 itself, as I use it more and more, I am liking it more and more. :smile:

---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-05-03
Because it started working 'out of the blue' on my clean 11.04 install, I want to ask anyone to try the following. It seems far-fetched but I have no other explanation for why it suddenly started working for me...

1. Click the time applet and open 'Add appointment' (or similar in your language) and add an appointment. In my case I had not used that feature before so it was the first time.

2. Make sure you have the latest updates by running the Update Manager and then log out and back in again (or reboot if you need to).

3. Click the time applet again and try to open Date & time settings...

Let me know if that changed anything :)

---

### Post by non-prophet on 2011-05-03
RavanH, I tried your idea but it didn't work. 

I tried to 'Add Event . . . ' but it started Evolution Setup Assistant. Now I don't use Evolution (use Web-based GMail) so I canceled that. Problem not fixed !!

So I tried again, this time setting up Evolution, then re-tried 'Add Event . . .' and it showed Evolution. I tried to Change Time/Date Settings - NO GO !!

Thanks for the idea though. We have to keep trying.

---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-05-03
> **non-prophet said:**
> So I tried again, this time setting up Evolution, then re-tried 'Add Event . . .' and it showed Evolution. I tried to Change Time/Date Settings - NO GO !!

Bummer, I had the impression that setting up Evolution (and starting the evolution notifier daemon?) had caused the change on my setup.

No such luck, so it remains a mystery...

---

### Post by shanee753 on 2011-05-03
I also have this, I upgraded from whatever the last stable Ubuntu version was to 11.04. Upon spotting that I no longer had the date in the top left I tried to go into the settings by clicking it, then "time and date settings..." no luck. Nothing happens for me also. There doesn't seem to be much I can do with the bar at the top of the screen in Ubuntu 11.04. Seems like a bit of a waste of space as only the top left and right hand edges of it are used. I think maybe I'll switch back to classic.

---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-05-03
> **shanee753 said:**
> I think maybe I'll switch back to classic.

Can you tell us after login with 'Classic', if you still cannot change date&time or if it works there?

---

### Post by ericbe1 on 2011-05-03
> **RavanH said:**
> Because it started working 'out of the blue' on my clean 11.04 install, I want to ask anyone to try the following. It seems far-fetched but I have no other explanation for why it suddenly started working for me...

1. Click the time applet and open 'Add appointment' (or similar in your language) and add an appointment. In my case I had not used that feature before so it was the first time.

2. Make sure you have the latest updates by running the Update Manager and then log out and back in again (or reboot if you need to).

3. Click the time applet again and try to open Date & time settings...

Let me know if that changed anything :)

Yes it changed everything for me. After a logout only, the Date & Time settings was working. 

Thanks a lot for the workaround !

ericbe

---

### Post by dimeotane on 2011-05-04
Upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04.

Clicking on the clock and "Time and Date Settings" doesn't do anything.  I liked having the option in 10.10 to display the time and date on my top bar, now it's just time. 

This is a very buggy release.  It was slow and choppy until I installed and tweaked compiz. 
Wireless won't resume from sleepmode like it did. 
"submit" buttons on browser don't activate often.
Sheesh... how disappointing.

---

### Post by mike4ubuntu on 2011-05-04
I used the classic ubuntu instead of unity from the beginning, and didn't have any problems unlocking date time settings, running on a vmware vm with AMD64 image.  I noticed it's time synced by default, but I can't see how to select or add a Time Sync Server.  Anybody see how to do that?

---

### Post by shanee753 on 2011-05-04
> **RavanH said:**
> Can you tell us after login with 'Classic', if you still cannot change date&time or if it works there?

In classic it shows the full date and time instead of just the time. Left clicking shows the calendar but doesn’t have a settings button. Right clicking lets me go to preferences and do everything as normal.

---

### Post by mike4ubuntu on 2011-05-04
Ok, looks like I have part of the answer on the setting the time sync servers.  Basically, it looks like the the clock's time settings do not allow you to install ntp any more.  You have to do that from the command line manually or from the Applications->Ubuntu Software Center.

```
sudo apt-get install ntp
```

Evidently, the default behavior now is for your pc to request the time from Canonical's ubuntu ntp servers every time you reboot.  That sounds like something Microsoft would do.:(

see this
[http://www.danbishop.org/2011/05/01/ubuntu-11-04-sbs-small-business-server-setup-part-2-ntp/]("http://www.danbishop.org/2011/05/01/ubuntu-11-04-sbs-small-business-server-setup-part-2-ntp/")

---

### Post by ragingpenguin on 2011-05-05
I had upgraded from 10.10 and was not able to change the time and date.

```

sudo indicator-datetime-preferences

```

allowed me to update the time and date settings without any issues, however, trying to launch the "Time and Date" settings from the UI still is not responsive.

---

### Post by jaezcurra on 2011-05-05
Hi, logged off from Unity, then logged in in Classic Ubuntu (where the time setings could be changed as usual), logged off again and finally logged in in Unity and the time settings are available again.

---

### Post by RavanH on 2011-05-09
Ok, after this problem seemed to have disappeared for me it now is back so I'm back to this thread again :(

> **ragingpenguin said:**
> I had upgraded from 10.10 and was not able to change the time and date.

```

sudo indicator-datetime-preferences

```

allowed me to update the time and date settings without any issues, however, trying to launch the "Time and Date" settings from the UI still is not responsive.

This results in:
```
~$ sudo indicator-datetime-preferences
[sudo] password for xxxx:

** (indicator-datetime-preferences:3712): WARNING **: Could not connect to geoname lookup server: De bewerking is niet mogelijk
```
After which the time management window opens (with the lock icon 'unlocked' but I cannot make any changes in date or time or internet-time-server settings stick... There is no OK button nor do any changes apply after simply closing this window.

Very strange.

---

### Post by pshuttle on 2011-05-09
I set the time at command line but it would still not update the clock in unity:

```
sudo date nnddhhmmyyyy.ss
```

I logged out and then into Classic and the time updated. Logged back into Ubuntu unity and the correct time was now displayed.

---

### Post by happy4u on 2011-05-09
I am also suffering from such problem. Please suggest me some useful info about that.

---

### Post by clanlaw on 2011-05-10
I have opened a bug for this issue, no response so far:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/+bug/779516](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/+bug/779516)

Please all affected go there and click near the top to say that the bug affects you and add any specific more information you have (assuming it looks as if you are seeing the same bug).  That will increase the chance someone will look at it.

---

### Post by clanlaw on 2011-05-10
> **clanlaw said:**
> I have opened a bug for this issue, no response so far:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/+bug/779516](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dbus/+bug/779516)

Please all affected go there and click near the top to say that the bug affects you and add any specific more information you have (assuming it looks as if you are seeing the same bug).  That will increase the chance someone will look at it.

Further to the above also see bug 751175
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/751175](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/751175)

The workaround to allow the settings to be accessed is to open a terminal and enter
killall indicator-datetime-preferences
then you should be able to access the date/time settings in the normal way.  If you wish to change them again you may need to do the killall again, if you have re-booted in between.

---

### Post by pebuha on 2011-05-12
> **clanlaw said:**
> Further to the above also see bug 751175
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/751175](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/751175)

The workaround to allow the settings to be accessed is to open a terminal and enter
killall indicator-datetime-preferences
then you should be able to access the date/time settings in the normal way.  If you wish to change them again you may need to do the killall again, if you have re-booted in between.

Thank you, this has solved it for me.

---

### Post by non-prophet on 2011-05-16
I replied to this thread saying that none of the helpful 'fixes' had worked for me. I resist using command line fixes so I didn't try them.
I have been updating my system every few days to see if a fix appears. Nothing - until a few minutes ago. 
After installing update (only three items of about 18 kB I think), I tried to open the time-Date settings and **BINGO**. It opened and date and time are now visible. 
Thanks to however fixed that as it has been most annoying.:grin:

---

### Post by grantmcduling on 2011-05-23
I am experiencing the same thing. Any ideas?

---

### Post by clanlaw on 2011-05-23
@grantmcduling: Did you try the workaround in message #35?

---

### Post by djenka on 2011-06-19
I went: 

sudo apt-get remove gnome-time-admin

restart and time date settings works.
I then adjusted all the settings I wanted... reinstalled gnome-time-admin and... it is non responsive again.

EDIT:
I've noticed that my Language Support was not completely installed.
Installed it, went to set English US... time and date settings work.
I LEFT this window open, repplied english version I like... closed all the windows and not it works.

---

### Post by clanlaw on 2011-06-19
> **djenka said:**
> I went: 

sudo apt-get remove gnome-time-admin

restart and time date settings works.
I then adjusted all the settings I wanted... reinstalled gnome-time-admin and... it is non responsive again.

EDIT:
I've noticed that my Language Support was not completely installed.
Installed it, went to set English US... time and date settings work.
I LEFT this window open, repplied english version I like... closed all the windows and not it works.
Does the workaround in post #35 not work for you?

---

### Post by pshuttle on 2011-06-20
This issue seems to have been fixed on my machine, so I am guessing a system update has solved the problem.

It may be worth updating your Ubuntu install and trying it again?

---

### Post by DavidVanCan on 2011-06-23
The solution in Message #35 worked for me.

---

### Post by N7V on 2011-06-24
Same here, solution #35 got it done.

---

### Post by shrdlu on 2011-07-14
I'm trying to support a newbie who reports the same problem. The system generates a message saying that it's opening date & time but doesn't do it.

Is it possible to reinstall a package to fix this? 

What is the name of the executable?

---

### Post by clanlaw on 2011-07-14
> **shrdlu said:**
> I'm trying to support a newbie who reports the same problem. The system generates a message saying that it's opening date & time but doesn't do it.

Is it possible to reinstall a package to fix this? 

What is the name of the executable?
The bug itself does not seem to be have been fixed, see
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/751175](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/751175)

Try the workaround in post #35.

---

### Post by hipowershooter on 2011-08-03
The fix in reply #35 worked for me, BUT....I have to wonder why this is or was an issue. 

I would never have thought of this as a problem, as I travel frequently, and when I go from TimeZone to TimeZone, I like to reset my computer to match. After my recent Upgrade to 11.04  (from 9.04 on a very old Dell Insprion 700m laptop), I was in the Pacific TimeZone and could not change. Not that it was an issue, it peaked my curiosity. I looked it up when I got back but found nothing until I logged back into this forum to check. 

Anyone who wants to or does travel from TimeZone to TimeZone will have this issue until this is permanently fixed. 

Is there or was there or will there be a permanent fix?

---

### Post by clanlaw on 2011-08-04
@hipowershooter have you added yourself to the bug report, the more people that add themselves the more likely it is to be fixed.  Click the link This bug affects nn people at the top of the bug report at
[U][https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/751175](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/751175)

[/U]

---

### Post by lz1dsb on 2011-09-02
> **foodmonkey said:**
> oh - and further to that last post try from a terminal

indicator-datetime-preferences

see if that can help.
Probably my issue was a bit different. What I did was to just start the application with root privileges from the CLI:
sudo indicator-datetime-preferences
Then I was able to edit the settings.


Cheers, 
Boyan

---

