---
title: "Need help repairing corrupt partition table"
date: 2011-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thomasyen on 2011-05-21
Hello all,

A few months ago I tried to shrink an NTFS partition using gparted and use the free space to install Haiku. However, gparted crashed in the middle of the resize, leading to a corrupt partition table. I tried to solve the problem myself, using testdisk to detect the partitions. However, the fix is not perfect, and it left me with a partition table that goes "outside" of the disk (i.e. the partition table has allocated more sectors than there actually are on the disk to the last partition).

Recently I need to reinstall Ubuntu Natty, but because the partition table is corrupt, the installer on the Ubuntu Natty Live CD (as well as gparted) see the disk as entirely unpartitioned. What is weird is that the Disk Utility (aka palimpsest), fdisk on my current Natty distro (upgraded from Maverick, which I want to replace with a fresh install), and GRUB 2 see the partitions fine (with some errors, such as listing a few trillion TBs of available space, a result of the corrupt partition table).

I am using an Asus U30Jc laptop with a single 500GB HDD. My current setup is supposed to be like this:
/dev/sda1: A hidden FAT32 recovery partition generated by Windows 7, listed as containing Windows Vista by GRUB 2
/dev/sda2: NTFS partition containing Windows 7 (labeled "OS")
/dev/sda3: Extended partition containing "DATA", Ubuntu, swap, and the erroneous trillions of TBs of space
/dev/sda5: NTFS partition containing user data (labeled "DATA")
/dev/sda6: Ext4 partition containing Ubuntu
/dev/sda7: swap partition
(*Though I'm not supposed to have it, and it isn't listed in /dev while running the Live CD, /dev/sda4 exists as a zero-length partition in the output from sfdisk; not sure why)

Currently I've tried the following:
- testdisk, using "deeper search" and writing the partition table back to disk; produced a (usable) partition table that was bad.
- [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014523](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014523) , fsck didn't do much at all, except raise various errors on all partitions except the one containing Natty.
- [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038943](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038943) , tried to substitute the numbers caljohnsmith gave to thegreat with the corresponding values from my run of fdisk -lu, but because caljohnsmith didn't explain where the values came from and what they meant (no offense to him), I was lost; after the last step (setting the end sector on the extended partition to the last cylinder boundary (which I didn't really understand; tell me if you need details on what I did)), gparted went from showing the trillions of TBs of free space as outside all partitions to showing them as inside the extended partition; this also somehow caused the partitions to overlap.(The error parted raises changed from "Error: Can't have a partition outside the disk!" to "Error: Can't have overlapping partitions.")

Running fdisk from the Natty Live CD gives
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -lu

Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x74ef0aca

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1            2048    34812854    17405403+  1c  Hidden W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda2   *    34812855   279000854   122094000    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3       279000855   976768064   348883605    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5       279000918   875204030   298101556+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda6       875204608   972859391    48827392   83  Linux
/dev/sda7       972861440   976771055     1954808   82  Linux swap / Solaris

```

Running sfdisk -l from the Natty Live CD gives
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo sfdisk -l /dev/sda

Disk /dev/sda: 60801 cylinders, 255 heads, 63 sectors/track
Units = cylinders of 8225280 bytes, blocks of 1024 bytes, counting from 0

   Device Boot Start     End   #cyls    #blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1          0+   2166    2167-  17405403+  1c  Hidden W95 FAT32 (LBA)
/dev/sda2   *   2167   17366   15200  122094000    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3      17367   60800   43434  348883605    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda4          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sda5      17367+  54478-  37112- 298101556+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda6      54478+  60557-   6079-  48827392   83  Linux
/dev/sda7      60557+  60801-    244-   1954808   82  Linux swap / Solaris
```

Running parted from the Natty Live CD gives
```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo parted /dev/sda print
Error: Can't have overlapping partitions.
```

Can someone point me to where I can find a solution to this problem? Alternatively, can someone guide me through the recovery process? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by wojox on 2011-05-21
:arrow: [Fixing the Problem the Easy Way: FixParts]("http://www.rodsbooks.com/missing-parts/")

---

### Post by thomasyen on 2011-05-21
Thanks a million, wojox! That fixparts program really made short work of my problem. For future reference (in case somebody else reads this), I followed the fixparts tutorial([http://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/](http://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/)) and used it to overwrite the corrupt partition table. Things were back to normal on the next reboot. Also, I swear that I'll never again use a production machine for experimentation...better stick to QEMU.

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2011-05-21
> **thomasyen said:**
> Thanks a million, wojox! That fixparts program really made short work of my problem. For future reference (in case somebody else reads this), I followed the fixparts tutorial([http://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/](http://www.rodsbooks.com/fixparts/)) and used it to overwrite the corrupt partition table. Things were back to normal on the next reboot.

As the author of FixParts, I'm glad to hear it!

> Also, I swear that I'll never again use a production machine for experimentation...better stick to QEMU.

I've been using VirtualBox a lot lately for quick experiments that would be dangerous and/or more time consuming on a real computer, even with a "scratch" hard disk. Virtualization helps a lot!

---

### Post by thomasyen on 2011-05-21
Thanks very much for your software! It solved my months-long problem in minutes. If you should come to Taiwan and we meet up, I really have to buy you a drink:)

As for virtualization, I haven't tried VirtualBox yet, since I've only ever used QEMU and VMware. Maybe I'll give it a shot in the future!

---

