---
title: "10.10 Pandora Desktop App shows broken in Synaptic"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by requeth on 2010-10-11
I just upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 64-bit today and I installed Adobe Air with no problems. I then installed the Pandora Desktop application and that installed fine as well. After the installation I saw a "do not enter" style sign in my status bar on the desktop. When I hover over it it's telling me an application has a broken installation. When I go into Synaptic and filter for broken I see "com.pandora.desktop.fb9956fd96e03239939108614098ad95535ee674.1" is showing broken. The description is just <> <>. Both Adobe Air and Pandora are working fine, and I'd be happy to ignore this warning except it's going to break my updating because it throws a warning every time.

Does anyone know how I can see what is apparently broken with the install or how I can suppress this message? I had the same versions of software running on 10.04 just fine before I formatted, and I'm the only person on the internet with this problem so far.

I've gone over dependencies several times and don't see anything missing. I've tried reinstalling both apps several times.  I don't know why this is even showing in Synaptic, since it's a sub app of Air...

---

### Post by requeth on 2010-10-12
For any of you other poor souls who got this problem, it's an easy fix.

In Synaptic remove the broken app (pandora).
In Command line run:
dpkg -l | grep "adobe"
sudo dpkg -r adobeair (or whatever it showed in the above command)
verify all adobe air has been wiped from /opt
Delete ~/.appdata/Adobe

Redownload the .bin from Adobe, do NOT us the .deb. It's what caused this for me in the first place. Save it to your home folder.
chmod +x the .bin file
sudo ./adibeair.bin
don't chmod the pandora .air file.
Things should work now.

---

