---
title: "How to display boot messages on top of background image?"
date: 2010-09-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mightymouse2045 on 2010-09-23
Hi there,

I am using Ubuntu 10.04 and grub2. I have grub2 successfully displaying at 1920x1080x24 with a background image and persisting this image and resolution via the gfxpayload=keep command.

This images dispalys from the grub menu right up to loading the login window when the nvidia drivers take over and the image is replaced by the login screen.

What I want is for all the boot messages to scroll over this image while it is booting but I cannot seem to get this to work. 

I have seen other people do it but for the life of me i cannot work it out. Below is my grub.cfg file. As you can see I have also removed quiet splash already... 

The only way I can get the boot messages to display is by removing the gfxpayload=keep command but then the background image is replaced by a black screen with the boot messages scrolling and the resolution drops down to 1024x768.

I want the messages to display on top of my background image can anyone help me out here?

GRUB.CFG

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  load_env
fi
set default="0"
if [ ${prev_saved_entry} ]; then
  set saved_entry=${prev_saved_entry}
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then
    saved_entry=${chosen}
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n ${have_grubenv} ]; then if [ -z ${boot_once} ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
if loadfont /boot/grub/fonts/myfont.pf2 ; then
set gfxmode=1920x1080x24
set gfxpayload=keep
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod vbe
  if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that don't
    # understand terminal_output
    terminal gfxterm
  fi
fi
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
set lang=en
insmod gettext
if [ ${recordfail} = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=10
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,5)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
insmod png
if background_image /usr/share/backgrounds/1_grub_image.png ; then
  set color_normal=white/black
  set color_highlight=red/black
else
  set menu_color_normal=white/black
  set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e ro video=vesafb:ywrap,mtrr  
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.32-24-generic (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
    recordfail
    insmod ext2
    set root='(hd0,5)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e
    echo    'Loading Linux 2.6.32-24-generic ...'
    linux    /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.32-24-generic root=UUID=967ebf9f-0031-4cbf-bab1-95fd2d0dba4e ro single 
    echo    'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
    initrd    /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" {
    insmod ntfs
    set root='(hd0,1)'
    search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set 78de3198de314f9c
    chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###
# This file provides an easy way to add custom menu entries.  Simply type the
# menu entries you want to add after this comment.  Be careful not to change
# the 'exec tail' line above.
### END /etc/grub.d/40_custom ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/50_ubuntu ###
menuentry "Ubuntu 10.04 Desktop LIVE CD ISO" {
       insmod ext2
       set root='(hd0,5)'
       search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set B232F77432F73BC3
       loopback loop (hd0,5)/ubuntu-10.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso
       linux (loop)/casper/vmlinuz boot=casper iso-scan/filename=/ubuntu-10.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso file=(loop)/preseed/ubuntu.seed quiet splash nomodeset
       initrd (loop)/casper/initrd.lz
}
### END /etc/grub.d/50_ubuntu ###

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2010-09-23
> **mightymouse2045 said:**
> 
What I want is for all the boot messages to scroll over this image while it is booting but I cannot seem to get this to work. 

I have seen other people do it but for the life of me i cannot work it out. 
Where exactly have you seen this?

---

### Post by mightymouse2045 on 2010-09-24
> **andrewthomas said:**
> Where exactly have you seen this?

For one a live boot cd for debian 5.

It boots up with an image. you select which option to boot and then a picture is loaded at 1280x1024 resolution and a message saying press F2 to view boot messages.

If you press F2 the picture fades a little and boot messages start scrolling across the image. :) 

This is using isolinux and then goes into the debian install

That's one I can think of off the top of my head.

---

### Post by mightymouse2045 on 2010-09-26
Ok I have done this with a combination of grub2 and plymouth

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWHUkWnOoi4](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWHUkWnOoi4)

Not clear in the video is the scrolling messages and the logo in the centre that flashes at the end just before login I am still working on the animation script to make that appear straight away like the butterfly does so the butterfly is flying around the logo :)

Credits go to Charlie Brej (google him) for the animation and google and other people who have had the same issues and myself for working through the grub2 stuff :p

gfxpayload=keep works well keeping the image until plymouth loads - which if you listen to others is not the best way of doing it but on trying their ways it turns out it is the best way of doing it. 

There is only a 1 second black screen flashed before plymouth loads. The most black comes from when my login screen is loaded and that is because my tv\monitor is switching to 1080p

Love this quote below - paste it on your command line and press enter:

t=`mktemp`;echo {S,F}{o,r}{ft,ci}{e,wa}{r,e,t}{e,y}|tee >(cut -d' '  -f88|tr -d 'yic' >>$t)|tee >(cut -d' ' -f7 >>$t)|cut -d '  ' -f18 >>$t;v=`<$t head -n1`;printf "\n%s %s, %s %s.\n\n" $v  `<$t head -n2|tail -n1` $v `<$t tail -n1`;rm -f $t;unset t

---

