---
title: "Slow Window/Desktop Rendering"
date: 2005-12-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by blanky on 2005-12-07
Hey guys, I'm running Ubuntu 5.10 (Breezy Badger) and I'm running GNOME (latest one I assume, I enabled backports). I have installed and verified that my ATI drivers are working correctly (tested in games such as UT2K4, ET, AA, etc.). My computer specifications are:

+2500 AMD Athlon XP Barton Core
512 DDR MB (2x256)
40 GB Slave
ATI 9800 PRO 128MB
420 PSU (dont think it matters)

However, since I first tried Ubuntu (4.10), at least as far as I can remember, I've always had window drawing lag. When I have a single window and I move it around on my desktop, everything's okay (you can notice a little blur on the edges of the window, nothing big). However, if I open for example say FireFox (or even more effective, OpenOffice), and move another window around on top of that (when FireFox is maximized), for example, XChat, the window redrawing on FireFox is extremely noticeable/slow.

I have checked other xorg configuration files on the net, usually they're all using NVidia, but I have hope that ATI also has something to enable faster window redrawing (or something that will speed this up).

Here is my xorg.conf file:

> 
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"GLcore"
	Load	"i2c"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 Pro (R350 NH)"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
	### 2D ACCELLERATION
	###Option "BackinStore"	"yes"	#prevent artifacts
	Option "RenderAccel" 	"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon 9800 Pro (R350 NH)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection


Notice that I have RenderAccel set to "true" (I've tried "yes" as well), this didn't seem to have any effect. I also have BackinStore set to "yes" (I've tried "true" as well) commented out, this was just because I was testing to see if it helped by doing so, and I forgot to uncomment it.

Yes, I have restarted X11 (my whole computer, actually) after each time I change a setting. My question is if you guys know of any setting or something that I can 'enable' in order to have faster window re/drawing. Not necessarily just through the xorg.conf, but in any other possible way. Any help is appreciated, thanks.

---

### Post by Dr. Nick on 2005-12-07
I think the renderaccel is for nvidia only. My redraws are not the fastest and I have a older nvidia, (but not using the 3d drivers atm) If your wondering about the little black squares that you see on minimize/maxamize that is a problem with metacity which is unresolveable without using something like openbox instead. [This]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/search.php?searchid=2848105") page has threads that deal with replacing the window manager which may help you some, but take a bit of bravery... though not much :)

---

### Post by blanky on 2005-12-07
Thanks for the tips, I was hoping someone had a solution, oh well, thanks anyways.

---

### Post by Bezvardis on 2006-07-13
I have NVIDIA TNT2 card and have the same problem with windows that are being rendered very slowly. this is a dual boot machine so I can compare with Windows XP - no such problem there and actually all video features run smoothly. I installed NVIDIA legacy drivers after which the 3d features now are better (like screensavers) but windows are still the same. I noticed that some people insist that Linux/Ubuntu is faster than Windows, so I hope someone might take this as a challenge and prove how to achieve the faster window rendering. By the way, I know that other people that have installed Ubuntu, have exactly the same problem.

---

