---
title: "18.04 updated/rebooted now hangs GNOME Display Manager"
date: 2018-07-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TRPrecht on 2018-07-15
Greetings.

I rarely reboot. Tonight I had some updates that failed (one that I remember was python). I figured it was odd, so I would reboot and try updating again.  Only now I get stuck on 

[ OK ] Started GNOME Display Manager. Dispatcher Service......tem changes.pp link was shut down...."

I believe I have kernel 4.15.0.24; i was able to reboot to grub once and try 4.15.0.23, but it ended up in the same spot. 

I also tried CTRL+ALT+F2 but keyboard gos unresponsive at that point. My system is a System76 Sable Touch 3.  4th Generation Intel® Core™ i5-4440S ( 2.80GHz - 6MB cache - 4 Cores - HD Graphics 4600 ), so I am not certain it would be the same issue as those with the nvidia cards.  

I am uncertain how to proceed in troubleshooting and hopefully, back up and running.

-----
40+ minutes later... I was able to eventually get in by CTRL+ALT+F3 log in and install lightdm. 
Obviously it is just a temp workaround, but there are still more issues.  

I get many python3 & dkpkg errors when apt update && sudo apt upgrade (These errors seem to be related to hplip.). 
also: 

Errors were encountered while processing:
 python3
 update-notifier-common
 python3-update-manager
 gnome-shell
 update-notifier
 unattended-upgrades
 update-manager
 gnome-menus
 update-manager-core
 gdm3
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)


I would greatly appreciate any help in getting this back to normal operational state otherwise I might end up backing up data and reimage..not my favorite option.

---

### Post by TRPrecht on 2018-07-16
I replaced a non-launching appimage of OpenShot with an apt install of it and now I get this continuing the other errors:

> No apport report written because MaxReports is reached already
                                                              Errors were encountered while processing:
 python3
 update-notifier-common
 python3-pyqt5
 python3-update-manager
 python3-openshot:amd64
 openshot-qt
 python3-scour
 scour
 gnome-shell
 python3-pyqt5.qtwebkit
 python3-pyqt5.qtsvg
 blender-data
 blender
 python-scour
 update-notifier
 unattended-upgrades
 update-manager
 gnome-menus
 openshot
 python3-zmq
 update-manager-core
 gdm3


---

### Post by TRPrecht on 2018-07-17
I found a bug report that is for the same or very similar bug. It was said to do the following, although I am uncertain how to proceed. 

>                         Can folks affected by this bug test the following kernel:
 [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~jsalisbury/lp1779827/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~jsalisbury/lp1779827/)
 Note about installing test kernels:
&#8226; If the test kernel is prior to 4.15(Bionic) you need to install the linux-image and linux-image-extra .deb packages.
&#8226; If the test kernel is 4.15(Bionic) or newer, you need to install the linux-modules, linux-modules-extra and linux-image-unsigned .deb packages.
 Thanks in advance!

              


I have 4.15.0-24-generic, so I *think* I need [linux-image-unsigned-4.15.0-24-generic_4.15.0-24.26+crng4_amd64.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~jsalisbury/lp1779827/linux-image-unsigned-4.15.0-24-generic_4.15.0-24.26+crng4_amd64.deb") & linux-modules-extra-4.15.0-24-generic_4.15.0-24.26+crng4_amd64.deb & linux-modules-4.15.0-24-generic_4.15.0-24.26+crng4_amd64.deb ?

---

### Post by TRPrecht on 2018-07-17
> **TRPrecht said:**
> 

I have 4.15.0-24-generic, so I *think* I need [linux-image-unsigned-4.15.0-24-generic_4.15.0-24.26+crng4_amd64.deb]("http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~jsalisbury/lp1779827/linux-image-unsigned-4.15.0-24-generic_4.15.0-24.26+crng4_amd64.deb") & linux-modules-extra-4.15.0-24-generic_4.15.0-24.26+crng4_amd64.deb & linux-modules-4.15.0-24-generic_4.15.0-24.26+crng4_amd64.deb ?

Installed the kernel update and *dpkg-reconfigure lightdm* switching back to gmd. rebooted and I'm back to normal mostly. I have some other issues, but I will post a different thread for that.

---

### Post by Delosari on 2018-07-18
> **TRPrecht said:**
> Installed the kernel update and *dpkg-reconfigure lightdm* switching back to gmd. rebooted and I'm back to normal mostly. I have some other issues, but I will post a different thread for that.

Thank you very much for sharing your experience. I have the same issue: How did you install the kernel update? Which commands did you run? Did you do it from the tty?

---

### Post by TRPrecht on 2018-07-19
I used tty to *dpkg-reconfigure lightdm* (or first install then that command) then I rebooted into my system with lightdm instead of GDM. then I found the bug report with the kernel updates from Joseph Salisbury ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1779827/comments/39](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/1779827/comments/39)). I then downloaded the suggested three debs, and installed them there. 
Then I re ran *dpkg-reconfigure lightdm* and switched back to gdm3 and rebooted.

---

