---
title: "10.10 on Asus eee 1000HE Wireless Issue"
date: 2010-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cbeavz on 2010-10-20
Hey guys,

Last night I ran an update on my netbook to get NBR 10.10. It's a cool interface and after some tinkering with it, I think I like it enough to stick with it over 10.04, but there's one horribly annoying issue. I can't maintain a wireless connection for the life of me. I'll fire up WiFi, it'll auto-connect just fine, I can use it for a minute or two, and then it just dies. Is there a driver particular to the Asus eee 1000HE that I can just manually reinstall, or some way I can generally revert all wireless settings to what I had in 10.04, because having wireless is pretty darn important for my netbook to be worth much at all.

Thanks in advance,
Chris

---

### Post by Druthers on 2010-10-20
Hello,

I have the same issue with my Eee PC 1000HE.  Actually I have had this problem since Ubuntu 9.  I was using the Array Kernel which had flawless wireless performance with the Atheros wireless card in this Netbook.

Can't you (Ubuntu) offer official support for the wireless card in this Netbook?

The Array Kernel developers could do it.  You can compile your own drivers and change some restricted settings in some config files to enable the use of the card.

I for one do not understand the technical issues with official support for the Netbooks with this wireless card.  Please post some kind of official response for why owners of one of the more popular Netbooks from last year are not supported.  Not having wireless on an Eee PC is like not having wheels on your car, it's useless.

Thank you,

Druthers

---

### Post by lachose on 2010-10-21
Same issue here with an eee 1000H. Everything worked fine with different flavor of eeebuntu, but as described since I switched to UNR I can't keep a wireless connection for more than 1min.

---

