---
title: "10.04 disc just hangs on install"
date: 2010-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ex-para on 2010-10-20
I am using a bought 10.04 disc that I have used only twice with success on other computers to duel boot with Win7 on a new Toshiba laptop but it goes so far and then just hangs. It has gone as far as 93% and then stops so what can be wrong.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-10-20
Is the hard disk integrity ok? It sounds like maybe the install could be hitting a bad sector or something and unable to deal with it?

---

### Post by ex-para on 2010-10-20
Thanks for the reply,the computer is four days old but how would I know about the hard drive.

---

### Post by DougieFresh4U on 2010-10-20
Just a thought, not sure how your trying to install, but I have put disc in and click install and had it fail. So I let live-cd load up and click install from desktop and it worked.

---

### Post by ex-para on 2010-10-20
I have tried that with no luck, what I am trying to do is duel boot with Win7. I have already done a duel boot on a laptop with Vista and 10.04 and a laptop with just 10.04 with no problems but I have no idea about this hanging business.

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2010-10-20
Hi ex-para,
please post the specifications of the computer in question and from the LiveCD post the output of ```
sudo fdisk -l
```(lowercase L not 1)

Thanks.

---

### Post by ex-para on 2010-10-20
I got the wireless connection working but it will not load the firefox page so at the moment I am unable to send the results of sudo fdisk but there is sada1 to sada10 with 6 referring to Linux. If I cant get firefox working  it will be a bit of a job typing it all out.

---

