---
title: "8.04 beta to final...what happened to the theme?"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by OpticalIllusion on 2008-04-24
I was using the beta for a while and the newer, slightly refined theme was there.  I got the final release installed and it's gone!  The theme looks the same as 7.10.  What happened to it?  I liked it more. :(

Beta Theme

[img]http://debianadmin.com/copper/albums/hardy/10.png[/img]

Final Theme

[img]http://bp3.blogger.com/_GplflPdoyzc/Rxu4iAcCXvI/AAAAAAAAAIo/wETCxMQsVzc/s400/pic.png[/img]

---

### Post by misfitpierce on 2008-04-24
No idea but to me the beta theme looked worse :) lol

---

### Post by Eclipse. on 2008-04-24
First I have noticed this, half way through the beta stages I changed to a custom theme, I really like it too,.

***Hunts around for some answers.***

---

### Post by elmer_42 on 2008-04-24
I don't use the default theme anyway, but I think the final theme looks better. It just seems softer than the Beta theme.

---

### Post by Juffo-Wup on 2008-04-24
Don't you have a 'Human-Murrine' theme there somewhere?

I do, and it isn't in my .themes folder, so it must have been installed by the update-manager when I upgraded to the RC version a few days back. Are you sure that you don't have it?

BTW, the theme I'm talking about is like the one you showed, only lighter and without the orange strip in the menus.

---

### Post by OpticalIllusion on 2008-04-24
> **Juffo-Wup said:**
> Don't you have a 'Human-Murrine' theme there somewhere?

I do, and it isn't in my .themes folder, so it must have been installed by the update-manager when I upgraded to the RC version a few days back. Are you sure that you don't have it?

BTW, the theme I'm talking about is like the one you showed, only lighter and without the orange strip in the menus.
Yes, I guess I do have that theme.  I kinda like the darker color with the orange strips.  Plus the controls looked a little more glossy in beta, which I also liked.  Oh well, I can live with this, it's only my server anyway. :)  Thanks.

---

### Post by Tzar on 2008-04-26
I also like the beta murrine better, any chance its still lurking on a repo somewhere? If anyone has it, please share it, thanks.

---

### Post by nullmind on 2008-04-26
Here is how my Human Marine looks:

[[IMG]http://img108.imageshack.us/img108/4707/screenshotpb1.th.png[/IMG]]("http://img108.imageshack.us/img108/4707/screenshotpb1.png")

[[IMG]http://img169.imageshack.us/img169/9514/screenshot1ot0.th.png[/IMG]]("http://img169.imageshack.us/img169/9514/screenshot1ot0.png")

---

