---
title: "./configure error when installing pidgin from source"
date: 2008-03-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bobbo85 on 2008-03-06
I have downloaded the source for pidgin 2.4.0 and extracted the tarball to my home directory.

When I cd to the source folder and type "./config" I get this error:

configure: error: cannot find install-sh or install.sh in "." "./.." "./../.."

After googling the issue and reading a few similar threads in this forum, I tried the following:

Installed:
BuildEssential
g++
libgtk2.0-dev
libglib2.0-dev
libxml2-dev
libgnutls-dev

Unfortunately, I am still getting the same error... any ideas?

Thanks in advance!

-Bobby

---

### Post by TigerWolf on 2008-03-06
Can you give us a ls output and maybe try running ./configure instead of ./config

---

### Post by jimv on 2008-03-06
Why compile when you can get debs?

[http://download.ubuntu.pl/_Feisty_Fawn/pidgin/2.1.1/](http://download.ubuntu.pl/_Feisty_Fawn/pidgin/2.1.1/)

---

### Post by bobbo85 on 2008-03-06
> **TigerWolf said:**
> Can you give us a ls output and maybe try running ./configure instead of ./config

LS results:
acinclude.m4     configure.ac         ltmain.sh         po
aclocal.m4       COPYRIGHT            Makefile.mingw    README
ChangeLog.win32  depcomp              missing           README.mingw
config.guess     doxy2devhelp.xsl     mkinstalldirs     README.MTN
config.h.mingw   Doxyfile.in          pidgin.apspec.in  share
config.log       INSTALL              pidgin.spec       valgrind-suppressions
config.sub       intltool-extract.in  pidgin.spec.in
configure        libpurple            PLUGIN_HOWTO

Results for ./configure are the same (That was a typo in my first post, I have been using ./configure all along)

---

### Post by bobbo85 on 2008-03-06
> **jimv said:**
> Why compile when you can get debs?

[http://download.ubuntu.pl/_Feisty_Fawn/pidgin/2.1.1/](http://download.ubuntu.pl/_Feisty_Fawn/pidgin/2.1.1/)

Two reasons for compiling from source instead of using debs:

1)  I'm trying to learn linux one step at a time - today's project was to install from source instead of using synaptic

2)  Synaptic does not have pidgin 2.4.0 listed there yet that I know of.  There are some .deb files available at [http://www.getdeb.net/app/Pidgin](http://www.getdeb.net/app/Pidgin), but I'd rather make my own!  Especially after seeing an error - just gotta fix it and figure out why it happened.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-03-06
Here are the instructions I think are the most thorough:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=658244&highlight=pidgin](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=658244&highlight=pidgin)

---

### Post by Oldsoldier2003 on 2008-03-07
> **bobbo85 said:**
> Two reasons for compiling from source instead of using debs:


[COLOR="Red"]2)  Synaptic does not have pidgin 2.4.0 listed there yet that I know of.  There are some .deb files available at [http://www.getdeb.net/app/Pidgin](http://www.getdeb.net/app/Pidgin), but I'd rather make my own!  Especially after seeing an error - just gotta fix it and figure out why it happened[/COLOR].

yep you wont see 2.4 in the official repos because when a version is released they lock the versions of the bundled aps.

---

### Post by steveneddy on 2008-03-07
OK - if you read the INSTALL file that is in the pidgen file you downloaded it says:

This is shortened a bit:

> 
The simplest way to compile this package is:

  1. `cd' to the directory containing the package's source code and type
     `./configure' to configure the package for your system.

  2. Type `make' to compile the package.

  3. Type `make install' to install the programs and any data files and
     documentation.

[COLOR="Blue"]NOTE: I always use **sudo make** and **sudo make install**[/COLOR]

  4. You can remove the program binaries and object files from the
     source code directory by typing `make clean'.



In a nutshell type in terminal:

**./configure**

then

**sudo make**

then

**sudo make install**

then

**sudo make clean**

I am on 64 bit and find it easier to compile from source most of the time.

I always compile pidgen from source and this is my method.

---

### Post by bobbo85 on 2008-03-07
> **kevdog said:**
> Here are the instructions I think are the most thorough:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=658244&highlight=pidgin](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=658244&highlight=pidgin)

Kevdog,
I may have made a boo boo...
I am not running 64-bit Ubuntu, and I just ran the 4 commands from this post in "Before Installation."
It is right now downloading and installing something like 850mb worth of stuff from the last command (I think it's getting the libs etc)...

Do you think I broke anything? Can I undo what I just did?

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-03-09
Can you post your configure statement you type on the command line -- the one with all the enable-switches.  It looks like doxygen is at least one source of the errors.  To be truthful with you, you as an end user, unless you are a developer, dont need all the enable statements.  I usually try to use them, however notice with certain updates, one of the packages breaks, I dont use the enable statement, everything compiles, and then with a newer update the package is later fixed so I can add the enable package back.  Ive compiled with no enable switches using cygwin on windows, and really havent noticed any functional difference.  (You might need ssl, and one other -- I can't remember right now!)

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-03-09
BTW, it's good practice to use *./configure prefix=/usr* on Ubuntu/Debian distros. Otherwise you get stuff in /usr/local/ and that can just cause problems.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-03-09
I dont know if I ever run into any problems having it installed into /usr/local.  By doing this, all the programs apt installs are kept problems from all the programs I compile and install.  So if for example my pidgin installation within /usr/local is broken or doesnt work, I always have a fallback with the default version within /usr.

/usr/local/bin is placed before /usr/bin in my path statement --- Ive never ran into a problem with two versions of the same program installed in multiple locations.

---

### Post by EvilBro on 2008-03-09
I had the same problem as the topic starter. If I typed: './configure' I'd get an error message. If I looked in the source-directory there was no install.sh. In the tar-file there was! I extracted the tar again and all was solved. (edit: I spoke a little to soon. Although it will install, it won't actually run yet...)

---

### Post by EvilBro on 2008-03-09
The error I got was something like: "can't find shared object libpurple.so.0". This file is in /usr/local/lib/. By placing a softlink like this it worked: 

ln -s /usr/local/lib/libpurple.so.0 /usr/lib/libpurple.so.0

I am however left wondering whether there is another way (seeing as how other programs I've compiled myself don't need the link to work.)

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-03-09
There is a compile flag you can specify on the command line to designate the location, however for the life of me I don't remember the flag off the top of my head.  What you did with the symbolic link is a workaround and it will work.

---

### Post by starfleetcaptainrob on 2008-03-18
I followed this thread and it seemed to work out alright:

[http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613049](http://ubuntu-utah.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=613049)

Hope it helps someone else.

---

### Post by kevdog on 2008-03-21
Here is what I found from the other thread:

Try running these two commands in terminal:
Code:

sudo ln -s /usr/local/lib/libpurple.so /usr/lib/
sudo ln -s /usr/local/lib/libpurple.so.0 /usr/lib/

The error is caused by Pidgin looking for its libraries in the wrong place (likely due to the omission of '--prefix=/usr' from configure). The previous two commands link where it thinks they are to where they actually are. You should now be able to run Pidgin successfully!

---

