---
title: ".mak files and Linux"
date: 2009-06-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wbest on 2009-06-18
I wasn't sre where to put this, so I put it in general help.
 
Anyway, I have a project that was made in and for Windows.  I need to see if I can get it even remotely close to working in Linux...so right now I'm trying to build it and stuff.
 
First, though, I created a .mak file using Visual Studio 6, and I was wondering if I could do anything with this in Linux, I tried using make, but got nothing.
 
Do .mak files only work in the prescence of Visual Studio?
 
If they work on Linux, am I right to use make, or is there a better command to run?

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2009-06-18
You are better off just moving all the source files into a new project under Kdevelop, or whatever IDE you are going to use, and then letting Automake and friends create the equivalent makefiles for you. What kind of program is it that you are working on? As a fellow Dev, I am always curious whenever I hear about porting software to another platform.



I have done a few cross platform C++ programs in College so I know how much of a PITA it can be to make everything work correctly under both OS's.

---

### Post by wbest on 2009-06-18
Yeah, I'm planning on doing that.
But with Eclipse C++ and/or Adjunta (I'm running Ubuntu, so all my stuff is GNOME centric).
I also have to wait a bit b/c the IT people at my work have the network setup to not allow downloads, so I can't use synaptic and I have to get them to download files to a disk and hand them over to me...so BIG annoyance there.
 
But yeah, the program is backend server processing stuff for financial trading.
 
Unfortunatly, some of the code does access Win32::Console...so I'm not looking forward to getting control of all that.

---

