---
title: "12.04 LTS CD keeps spinning after very long time use"
date: 2014-04-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KeepItSimpleStupid on 2014-04-17
OK, I've been running 12.04 LTS from CD since June off of the CD which is silly, I know.

The thing is is I ran it from a CD from TWO different Toshiba A665 serties computers where the major difference is the amount of RAM.  One has 6 GB and the other has 4 GB of memory.

In general, the only software that was routinely installed was Acrobat Flash.  Later, NFS was installed, but the problem existed before NFS was installed.

What happens is depending on the amount of RAM installed, the time it takes for the CD to just start spinnning on it's own and effectively making it impossibe to use the user interface.  Sometimes I can, but it starts getting progressinvely difficult with no response.

The amount of time that it takes for this to happen is measured in weeks (6 to 8 with 6 GB of RAM, 2-4 with 4 GB of RAM, and it's significantly less with the machine with 4 GB  or RAM.

Most of the time is spent web browsing, using Libre Office and viewing PDF files.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2014-04-17
This is quite something. I have spent considerable time in Ubuntuforums but never have I heard of people using the same live boot for weeks if not months. 

What is your question?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-04-17
A live system, ie a DVD as used by you, will put the whole OS into ram if there is sufficient ram available; if not it will continuously spin-up the DVD to get the particular part of the OS that it needs at that moment.

That is probably the reason for the difference between the two machines.

---

### Post by KeepItSimpleStupid on 2015-04-11
aj:

You misssed the point,  The machines will run for weeks without rebooting and then suddenly the CD light starts to blink and I have to shutdowm.  I can't even hit control+alt+t.

==

mörgæs:

Why doees it fail catistrophically?

--

Yes, I do want to put Linux on a SATA SSD which I actually have installed, but that appears to be a lot of work.

---

### Post by QIII on 2015-04-11
You asked this question recently elsewhere.

Let this thread rest in peace.

Closed.

---

