---
title: "19.04 - Uninstalling XScreenSaver kills my Start Menu"
date: 2019-12-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-05
I want to remove XScreenSaver 5.42 from my machine, but uninstalling it (using Muon) removes most of the programs from my Start Menu.
I'm completely at a loss as to what is happening here. There must be some strange dependencies at large, but the logic behind isn't understandable.

Any ideas?

Thank You.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2019-12-05
What else does that removal also take away?

Running ```
sudo apt -s remove xscreensaver
``` will output everything that would happen if you ran it fully, but it will do nothing, the -s option being "simulate".
This output may give us some clues so copy it back here.

I do not know much about muon apart from it being a KDE package manager rather like synaptic; does it tell you which packages will also be removed when you remove any package in the same way as synaptic?

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-12-05
This is the output, and it looks nasty somehow. It seems the XScreenSaver is part of the desktop :(

```
macro@macro-pc:~$ sudo apt -s remove xscreensaver
[sudo] password for macro: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libglade2-0 libjpeg-turbo-progs xscreensaver-data
Use 'sudo apt autoremove' to remove them.
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  lubuntu-desktop xscreensaver
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 2 to remove and 4 not upgraded.
Remv lubuntu-desktop [19.04.1]
Remv xscreensaver [5.42+dfsg1-1ubuntu1]
macro@macro-pc:~$ 

```

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2019-12-05
> The following packages will be REMOVED:
  lubuntu-desktop xscreensaver

lubuntu-desktop is just a list of packages to install. Technically, it's called a metapackage. Removing lubuntu-desktop doesn't remove any of your applications - just the list of applications. So, if you want to remove xscreensaver, it's o.k. to proceed - the only application that gets removed here is xscreensaver. (Note: might as well remove its data package, xscreensaver-data, along with it.)

Reference to learn more:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MetaPackages](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MetaPackages)

---

