---
title: "Cannot Edit /etc/passwd"
date: 2019-07-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
For the life of me I can't figure out why I cannot edit /etc/passwd. I have two of these Ubuntu 18.04.2 servers, and have been able to do this on both of them up until recently. Now it only works on one of them. I also noticed that the one I cannot edit /etc/passwd on has a /etc/passwd~ file on it too. I CAN edit that file, but the changes I make to it don't do anything. The other server doesn't have that file at all.

Whenever I try to edit /etc/passwd or /etc/shadow, it tells me that the file is "unwritable" in nano, and it says "'[FONT=Verdana]passwd' E212: Can't open file for writing" when I try using vi. I am trying to edit it as the root user. I have rebooted, tried using sudo/su, I've checked the permissions, I've checked lsattr&#8230;. I see NOTHING wrong!! The only thing out of the ordinary is this /etc/passwd~ file. Why is there an additional passwd~ file that has a more-recent timestamp than the /etc/passwd file??


[/FONT][FONT=Verdana][FONT=Verdana]root@********:/etc# lsattr /etc/passwd*
[/FONT][FONT=Verdana]--------------e--- /etc/passwd
--------------e--- /etc/passwd~
--------------e--- /etc/passwd-
[/FONT][LEFT][COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]root@[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]********[/FONT][/COLOR]:/etc# ls -la /etc/passwd*
[/FONT][/COLOR][/LEFT]
[FONT=Verdana]-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1978 Jul 29 15:56 /etc/passwd[/FONT]
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1980 Jul 29 16:14 /etc/passwd~
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 1937 Jul  2 23:29 /etc/passwd-
root@[COLOR=#222222][FONT=Verdana]********[/FONT][/COLOR]:/etc#
[/FONT]

---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
Ok, WTH.... I just noticed that there is a /etc/passwz~ file too.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-07-29
getfacl? Anything funny?
Is vi a snap package?
What if you try using the sudoedit command?

---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
getfacl looks correct. owner and group are root, user is rw, group and other are r. sudoedit created a temp file, but failed to save it back to the original file
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]
sudoedit: unable to write to /etc/passwd: Permission denied
sudoedit: contents of edit session left in /var/tmp/passwd.XXYX6QiH

I deleted the /etc/passwd~ and /etc/passwz~ files, and rebooted. That didn't make any difference.
[/FONT]

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-29
Would you please also add this output:
```
ls -l /home
total 8
drwx------ 67 me   users 4096 Jul 29 09:52 me
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root  4096 May 26 12:01 partimag

```
Also this please:
```
ls -ld .?* /home
```
This will show all hidden files in /home

---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
I thought this happened after I added a new user and group, so I removed the user using deluser. The user did correctly get removed from /etc/passwd. So, it looks lke something is just preventing me from manually editing the file. WTH? What could possibly be doing that?

---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
root@***********:~# ls -l /home
total 16
drwxr-xr-x 2        1006        1007 4096 Jul 29 15:56 devops
drwxr-xr-x 6 looker      looker      4096 Jul 19 16:03 looker
drwxr-xr-x 4 opsmgrmaint opsmgrmaint 4096 Jan 24  2019 opsmgrmaint
drwxr-xr-x 2 opsmgrmon   opsmgrmon   4096 Jan 24  2019 opsmgrmon
root@***********:~# ls -ld .?* /home
drwxr-xr-x 25 root root 4096 Jul 23 06:31 ..
-rw-------  1 root root 8506 Jul 29 16:40 .bash_history
-rw-r--r--  1 root root 3106 Apr  9  2018 .bashrc
drwx------  2 root root 4096 Jan 21  2019 .cache
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root 4096 Jul 22 12:56 .gem
drwx------  3 root root 4096 Jan 21  2019 .gnupg
drwxr-xr-x  6 root root 4096 Jul 29 15:56 /home
drwxr-xr-x  3 root root 4096 Jan  3  2019 .local
-rw-r--r--  1 root root  148 Aug 17  2015 .profile
-rw-------  1 root root 1024 Jan 24  2019 .rnd
drwx------  2 root root 4096 Dec 21  2018 .ssh
-rw-------  1 root root 1363 Jul 29 16:28 .viminfo

---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
I'm not sure what .viminfo is for, but that seems to reference the passwd file quite a bit....

[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# This viminfo file was generated by Vim 8.0.
# You may edit it if you're careful![/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# Viminfo version
|1,4[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# Value of 'encoding' when this file was written
*encoding=utf-8[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]
# hlsearch on (H) or off (h):
~h
# Command Line History (newest to oldest):
:q!
|2,0,1564432119,,"q!"
:w
|2,0,1564432051,,"w"[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# Search String History (newest to oldest):[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# Expression History (newest to oldest):[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# Input Line History (newest to oldest):[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# Debug Line History (newest to oldest):[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# Registers:
""-     CHAR    0
        h
|3,1,36,0,1,0,1564430964,"h"[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# File marks:
'0  38  83  /etc/passwd
|4,48,38,83,1564432119,"/etc/passwd"
'1  1  0  /etc/nano
|4,49,1,0,1564432038,"/etc/nano"
'2  38  43  /etc/passwd
|4,50,38,43,1564430969,"/etc/passwd"[/FONT]
[FONT=Verdana,Arial,Tahoma,Calibri,Geneva,sans-serif]# Jumplist (newest first):
-'  38  83  /etc/passwd
|4,39,38,83,1564432119,"/etc/passwd"
-'  1  0  /etc/nano
|4,39,1,0,1564432038,"/etc/nano"
-'  1  0  /etc/nano
|4,39,1,0,1564432038,"/etc/nano"
-'  38  43  /etc/passwd
|4,39,38,43,1564430969,"/etc/passwd"
-'  38  43  /etc/passwd
|4,39,38,43,1564430969,"/etc/passwd"
-'  1  0  /etc/passwd
|4,39,1,0,1564430858,"/etc/passwd"
-'  1  0  /etc/passwd
|4,39,1,0,1564430858,"/etc/passwd"
-'  1  0  /etc/passwd
|4,39,1,0,1564430858,"/etc/passwd"
&#8230;.
&#8230;.

[/FONT]

---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
Oh, that just looks like stuff related to Vi.... Not imporrtant.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-29
> **grime121 said:**
> I thought this happened after I added a new user and group, so I removed the user using deluser. The user did correctly get removed from /etc/passwd. 

Can you provide that exact command you used for that.

---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
groupadd devops
useradd -m -g devops devops

Then I attempted to edit the /etc/shadow file to change the default shell to /bin/bash. That's when I discovered I couldn't edit it.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-29
That was the one I was going to ask about.:)
> devops devops
Have you tried using the userdel command with the -r switch? Also, have you tried using deluser to remove the user account?

---

### Post by grime121 on 2019-07-29
I used deluser devops to delete the account, and then rm -rf /home/devops to remove the home folder. I supposed I can just change the user's default shell another way rather than editing the passwd file. I don't know why I can't edit it though. It's really strange. I even gave another account sudo permissions, and it was unable to edit it either.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-07-29
/etc/shadow has nothing to do with shells.  They are specified in /etc/passwd.

/etc/passwd should be owned by root with 644 permissions. /etc/shadow is owned by root and group shadow; it has 640 permissions.

```

-rw-r--r-- 1 root root   2741 Mar  8 10:46 /etc/passwd
-rw-r----- 1 root shadow 1430 Mar  8 10:46 /etc/shadow

```

You can only edit these files as root with sudo, e.g., "sudo nano /etc/passwd".  There's no reason you would ever need to edit /etc/shadow.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2019-07-29
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> /etc/shadow has nothing to do with shells.  They are specified in /etc/passwd.

There's no reason you would ever need to edit /etc/shadow.

+1,;) I also have no good idea why one  would need to do so.
EDIT:
```
stat /etc/passwd* 
  File: /etc/passwd
  Size: 2106      	Blocks: 8          IO Block: 4096   regular file
Device: 804h/2052d	Inode: 2380010     Links: 1
**Access: (0644/-rw-r--r--)**  Uid: (    0/    root)   Gid: (    0/    root)
Access: 2019-07-29 12:27:55.280871521 -0600
Modify: 2019-07-27 12:27:55.450592022 -0600
Change: 2019-07-27 12:27:55.480592720 -0600
 Birth: 2019-07-27 12:27:55.450592022 -0600
  File: /etc/passwd-
  Size: 2047      	Blocks: 8          IO Block: 4096   regular file
Device: 804h/2052d	Inode: 2376432     Links: 1
**Access: (0644/-rw-r--r--) ** Uid: (    0/    root)   Gid: (    0/    root)
Access: 2019-07-27 08:29:43.483708565 -0600
Modify: 2019-05-26 11:56:15.014770706 -0600
Change: 2019-07-27 12:27:55.473925898 -0600
 Birth: 2019-07-27 12:27:55.467259077 -0600

```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-07-29
At this point, I'd be looking into sudo aliases, sudo hacks, and disk failures.

---

