---
title: "14.04: Where is the load option list?"
date: 2016-01-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-01-30
Yesterday I installed 14.04 sharing the same HDD with Windows Vista BE (using my old 12.xx ISO disk and then upgrade to 14.04). During power up there is a list of boot options (various Ubuntu modes and Windows Vista) to choose from. 

This afternoon I installed 14.04 (using the same method above) onto a clean HDD. This install (by passes the load option screen and) goes directly to the Ubuntu user login screen. How do I go about boot with a different Ubuntu mode?

Please advise.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-01-30
Press the shift key whilst booting to get the grub menu.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-01-30
I tried a couple of times and still not getting the load option. 

When and how long do I press the shift key? Once seeing the purple screen background or wait until the Ubuntu (with running bullets under) logo?

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-01-30
Pretty much as soon as the BIOS is finished loading, try pressing and *holding* the key.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2016-01-30
Hi

> **Xinghao_Chen said:**
> I tried a couple of times and still not getting the load option. 

When and how long do I press the shift key? Once seeing the purple screen background or wait until the Ubuntu (with running bullets under) logo?

If the shift key is not working then try the ESC key.

Kind regards

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-01-30
> This afternoon I installed 14.04 (using the same method above) onto a  clean HDD. This install (by passes the load option screen and) goes  directly to the Ubuntu user login screen. How do I go about boot with a  different Ubuntu mode?

If Ubuntu is the only OS on the machine then we do not a Linux (Grub) boot menu. We do not need one. But to call up the Grub boot menu hold down the shift key after the motherboard has given the option to enter the BIOS/UEFI settings utility and before the purple screen appears.

> The user may be able to display the menu in one or more of the following ways: 
[LIST]
[*]Holding down the SHIFT key early in the boot process until the menu displays. 
[LIST]
[*]GRUB  2 searches for a depressed SHIFT key signal during boot. If the key is  pressed or GRUB 2 cannot determine the status of the key, the menu is  displayed. 
[/LIST]

[*]Pressing the ESC key during a 3 second window as GRUB 2 runs.
[/LIST]


[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

Regards.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2016-01-30
The ESC key worked! Thank you all - you made my Saturday Night better!

---

