---
title: "16.04 LTS problem upgrading to NVIDIA drivers"
date: 2016-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-19
Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, GeForce GT 610 card, latest Ubuntu provided kernel 4.4.0-22, clean install. I am currently using the open source Nouveau video driver. I wanted to switch to the NVIDIA proprietary driver. When I go to Software and Updates, and choose Additional Drivers, the top choice is "NVIDIA 361.42 (proprietary, tested) which I selected. I then rebooted the machine. After rebooting I get to the HDD encryption passphrase screen. But I can't do anything. I type on the keyboard and there is no indication that anything is happening. I would expect to see "*" in the field as happens using Nouveau. I then have to hit ctrl-alt-del to get to GRUB where I boot into "safe" mode (can't remember the Linux term for that), I assume with the generic drivers. I'm then able to return to Software and Updates and revert back to the Nouveau driver. Thanks for any ideas.

---

### Post by Linuxisfast on 2016-05-19
> **1j4fj67 said:**
> Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, GeForce GT 610 card, latest Ubuntu provided kernel 4.4.0-22, clean install. I am currently using the open source Nouveau video driver. I wanted to switch to the NVIDIA proprietary driver. When I go to Software and Updates, and choose Additional Drivers, the top choice is "NVIDIA 361.42 (proprietary, tested) which I selected. I then rebooted the machine. After rebooting I get to the HDD encryption passphrase screen. But I can't do anything. I type on the keyboard and there is no indication that anything is happening. I would expect to see "*" in the field as happens using Nouveau. I then have to hit ctrl-alt-del to get to GRUB where I boot into "safe" mode (can't remember the Linux term for that), I assume with the generic drivers. I'm then able to return to Software and Updates and revert back to the Nouveau driver. Thanks for any ideas.


I have the same card and drivers and I have installed it twice already and no issues. If you have SATA DVD, try removing and then rebooting to see if issue goes away.

---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-20
Thanks Linuxisfast. I appreciate the answer. I'm going to try your suggestion. Just out of curiosity, why would the SATA DVD be interfering with the process I described above? If I'm not mistaken, I was able to use the NVIDIA driver with 14.04 or it might have been with Mint. Thanks again.

---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-20
I tried disconnecting my DVD player to no avail. I also selected an older NVIDIA driver from the list and that didn't work either. I'm going to repost this issue in the General forum to see if there are more ideas.

---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-20
Ubuntu 16.04 LTS, Kernel 4.4.0-22-generic, GeForce GT 610 card, currently using Nouveau driver. I want to use the NVIDIA proprietary driver. After selecting NVIDIA 361.42 (proprietary, tested) in the Software and Updates section and rebooting machine, I come to the purple Ubuntu screen with "Please unlock disk sda3-crypt." But I can't go any further. I can't enter my passphrase as the keyboard doesn't seem to respond. However I am able to use Control-Alt-Del to get to recovery mode and my keyboard works perfectly fine elsewhere. By the way the keyboard is hard wired.  I also tried the older NVIDIA 340.96 to no avail. I have no problem with the Nouveau driver. Upon entering Recovery Mode, I am able to enter my system. It was suggested I disconnect my SATA DVD drive which I did but it didn't make a difference. I would appreciate any suggestions. Thanks.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-05-20
If you have an older card, you want to check which legacy driver is correct. (Your 600 series should use current drivers)
 Legacy drivers by GPU model 
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_32667.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/IO_32667.html)

And you can check which drivers are correct here for all cards, best then not to install legacy driver:
Updated driver search by nVidia model, do not download, just check correct driver version
[http://www.geforce.com/drivers](http://www.geforce.com/drivers) 

You normally do not want to install from nVidia directly with a .run file. As you have to run some extra updates with every kernel update.

Ubuntu will tell you which is recommended that is in repository:
      # list drivers available, same list as system settings,  software updates,  additional drivers or last tab
ubuntu-drivers devices
# or
ubuntu-drivers devices | grep recommended  

And nVidia drivers do not auto un-install a previous version, and you get major conflicts unless you purge old one before installing correct one.
      sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*
sudo ubuntu-drivers devices
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall 

If you have a very new nVidia card and need the very newest driver, best to add a ppa with pre-compiled driver for Ubuntu.
      # Shows standard repository versions
ubuntu-drivers devices
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:graphics-drivers/ppa
# should show newest versions available in addition
ubuntu-drivers devices 

See this, on some suggestions & details of ppa
      
 Details on why and future incorporation to Ubuntu installer
[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2015-August/004693.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-desktop/2015-August/004693.html)
[https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-05-20
Threads merged.
Please do not create multiple threads on same topic.

We all are volunteers and do not want to duplicate what has already been posted in a duplicate thread. Or you may even get conflicting info.

---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-20
Oldfred, thanks for your reply but I can't mark this as solved yet. I had already taken the steps you offered. Perhaps there are other forum members who have dealt with this same issue. Anybody?

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-05-20
Have you purged the installed drivers and then installed the recommended version?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-05-20
Additional Drivers does not offer us any proprietary video drivers that do not support our video hardware. I have an Nvidia GT 220 and the latest Nvidia driver offered to me by Additional Drivers is version 340.96. That is the last Nvidia driver to support the GT 220. So, if additional Drivers is offering nvidia 316.42 then it seems to me that your GT 610 is supported by nvidia 316.42.

You have an encrypted partition and with Nvidia drivers you cannot unlock the partition. But you can unlock it with the open source video driver Nouveau. Is this correct? Then that is the problem.

How long have you had this install of 16.04? I have kernel 4.4.0-22 on my system and one previous kernel - 4.4.0-16. You could try loading an earlier kernel from Advanced options for Ubuntu at the Grub boot menu. See if that makes a difference.

Another test you can run is to activate Nouveau and then install the Nvidia driver from the terminal with this command and watch to see if there are any errors compiling the kernel modules

```
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall
```

Regards.

---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-20
Thanks X-red and Graham. I purged the NVIDIA drivers from the command line and reinstalled the recommended driver thru Software and Updates. After a reboot, I couldn't enter my passphrase for the HDD encryption. I can get into the system fine with the Nouveau driver. This current install of 16.04 LTS is probably 3 or so weeks old. It was a clean install. I will try the earlier kernel listed in grub and do the autoinstall. I'll report back on the results. I guess I should say that I really don't need the NVIDIA drivers. I don't do anything graphics-intensive like games but yesterday I decided to try it out and now that it doesn't work, I want to figure it out. Thanks.

---

### Post by 1j4fj67 on 2016-05-21
Thanks oldfred and Graham for your suggestions which I followed. Unfortunately I haven't had any success. I'm perplexed and feel like I'm missing something obvious. I purged the previously installed NVIDIA drivers and used "sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall" and I did not see any errors pop up during the process but I still can't unlock the partition. I'm using two monitors, - one VGA and the other DVI (both connected to the same GeForce GT 610).

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-05-21
Do not know encryption.
But using nouveau does it still let you open it. I thought the encryption was not related to video?

Can you get to command line.

This is all I have in my notes, and do not know enough to really help.
 To get Ubuntu to see different encrypted install:
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install lvm2 cryptsetup
sudo modprobe dm-crypt
sudo cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/sdb2 my-crypt
sudo os-prober
sudo update-grub

---

### Post by nicholas-h-taylor on 2017-02-14
I have the same problem on an m2000m.  I've tried the latest drivers from ppa:graphics-drivers/ppa and I've done just a little bit of poking around.  Here's what I've learned:
1) Every version of nvidia drivers I've tried have the same problem - exactly as described by OP
2) Just a touch of linux seems to be running when it prompts for the disk password, I can switch VTs.  If I type something in (no stars are displayed) and switch to VT1 (alt-F1) and then switch back to VT7 I see whatever I typed on a text-mode screen.  This leads me to think that the password prompt program exited without cleaning up and I was actually typing my password into a VT with no process attached to it.
3) I can boot with the nvidia drivers by selecting the recovery option (under advanced options) from grub and then selecting resume boot from the menu.  Note that after shutting down a few things, the menu returns and I can select resume boot a second time, and THEN it boots normally.

I don't know if this is enough information to diagnose the problem, but I would be happy to do any other experiments anyone can suggest.

---

### Post by OriginalFlavor on 2017-06-05
> **grahammechanical said:**
> 
You have an encrypted partition and with Nvidia drivers you cannot unlock the partition. But you can unlock it with the open source video driver Nouveau. Is this correct? Then that is the problem.

```
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall
```


I am having a similar issue in 17.04.
I can boot with generic drivers. But when I boot with nvidia drivers, the boot freezes at the unlock screen and I am not able to enter the passcode.

When i execute 
```
sudo ubuntu-drivers autoinstall
```

I get the following output:
```
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 2 not upgraded.

```

Was this problem ever resolved?

---

### Post by rcamp on 2018-04-23
This is happening to me with a fresh install.  Installed with disk encryption, used both the system utility to install and apt, and the exact same problem as the OP.  The HD decrypt page does not respond and I see my password on one of the vterminals.  NVidia 1060, latest is something like 38x.

To recreate just install with encrypted disk and install nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2018-04-23
Hello rcamp, please start your own thread if you need support.

Old thread back to sleep!

---

