---
title: "Lubuntu, no sound on impress"
date: 2013-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jam_Holtman on 2013-08-11
I need help with this issue please

On Lubuntu there is no sound on Libre office Impress. I have tried Bodhi Linux and after installing non - free codecs there is sound on Libre Office Impress with Bodhi Linux
However trying the same trick, even after installing Win32 codecs on Lubuntu there is still no sound.
Trying Lubuntu restricted codecs also brought no solution

All presentations are muted on Lubuntu with Impress.
Movies work, Skype works, playing an MP3 works, but no sound with the combination Lubuntu and Libre office Impress.
I tried this on 3 machines, as well Intel as well AMD based.

Tonight I tried also the following: Open Office Impress on Lubuntu: Result no sound in presentations, tested on 2 different machines.
Then I tried Kingsoft office presentation on Lubuntu. No sound on any presentation that I tried..

Then as a last resort I tried Powerpoint Viewer (Microsoft PowerPoint Viewer) on Wine. Works like a charm, sound on all presentations that I tried. Also tested on 2 machines. My question is: Why is there no sound on the Linux compatible Office packages, Libre Office, Open office and Kingsoft office.

I think it needs investigation. Especially because soon many people will probably look into Lubuntu when moving away from Windows XP towards Lubuntu as a viable alternative when they want to keep on using their old hardware, especially in the poorer countries..

---

### Post by kiemc-b on 2013-08-19
I haven't tested your problem, but you should give a try to unmuting system sounds. Because they are muted by default on lubuntu, and what if sound generated by *office are considered to be those?

So, start (or if not installed, first install) application *pavucontrol*. Select first tab (possibly "Playing") and unmute system sounds. Then try again running the presentation.

Or you can also try the third tab ("Output devices"), there appear volume control panels *when a particular plugin is in use* (e.g. ALSA when watching YouTube videos).

---

### Post by Jam_Holtman on 2013-08-20
Thank you for your answer. I tried this before and i tried it again. Also this is not the solution.  I appreciate that you tried to help me.

---

### Post by West Swan on 2014-01-29
> **Jam_Holtman said:**
> Thank you for your answer. I tried this before and i tried it again. Also this is not the solution.  I appreciate that you tried to help me.

Hello,

This isn't really another post.  Just to show that what works in one situation may not in another and vice versa.  I guess there are lots of variables :P

I hope you have found your solution.

You see for me, Kingsoft Office, was the only one of 6 different programs (see below) that would play a powerpoint file with embedded video.  Everything worked pictures sound etc.

Here is the link:

 [COLOR=#0000cd]http://medicine.hsc.wvu.edu/Biochemistry/Education/Undergraduate/BIOC-339-Summer[/COLOR]

The pptx file I am talking about is the second one which is about a  third of the way down the page.  The embedded video is in slide number 4  of this pptx file.

I tried the latest stable versions of:

pptviewer, calligra stage, libreoffice impress, powerpoint viewer 2010 in wine, apache open office and kingsoft presentations.  

I was using Lubuntu 13.10 with all the restricted extras if that even counts.

Regards,

Paul

---

