---
title: "NTFS folder access slow"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zick_boy on 2008-05-13
I have in my PC 2 drives: one totally new formated in Ext3 and the other is one that I had on a Windows XP machine that contains pictures, music and movies formated in NTFS.  Whenever I try to access the pictures folder on the NTFS folder it takes an extremely long time (more than 5 mins.) to show the file listing.  This only happens with the Pictures folder.  everything else on that drive works flawlessly.

I'm using Ubuntu 8.04.

Any help is aprreciated.

---

### Post by -random on 2008-05-13
This might not be it, but maybe.. it's only because you have a lot of files in that folder that aren't in other folders.?

Sounds silly i know but this might be it?

can you reply the outputs of these commands in the terminal:
```

cat /etc/fstab
```

```
blkid
```

---

### Post by zick_boy on 2008-05-14
Weird, but now it's  working.  I did a system update, reboot and I can access the folder at normal speed.  I ran the commands on Terminal just in case, maybe you can help me spot something wrong here that might cause the same problem in the future.

This is the response I get from cat /etc/fstab:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=d9772e5d-59c1-4bca-a4a3-99e5faf8d15b / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=0526300b-570f-4785-87e7-7efdde75d25f /home ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=ca726f10-3ef7-4ffe-bb73-bc7740211233 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
```

From he command "blkid" I get nothing.

---

### Post by -random on 2008-05-15
sudo blkid instead?

If it's working, cool beans! For now just leave it like it is.

If however for some random reason in the futrue the problem pops up you can try

"I now know that relatime is actually the default now, so anyone
encountering this can remove relatime from their /etc/fstab and
rebuild the initrd for their kernel to avoid this bug (I still
think the patch should be applied for safety), and still have /
mounted using relatime."

[http://linux.derkeiler.com/Mailing-Lists/Fedora/2007-11/msg00816.html](http://linux.derkeiler.com/Mailing-Lists/Fedora/2007-11/msg00816.html)

that's the only funny thing I see... but as I said, it it's working, leave it :)

---

