---
title: "11.04 Natty: GNOME crashing and disappearing eth0"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MadKAT on 2011-05-03
Upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 and I'm having some issues:

1. GNOME intermittently crashes (not often, but happens to me about once or twice a day). Linux still runs but I'm all of a sudden logged out. I can't figure out how it happens because sometimes all I'm doing is just browsing, sometimes I'm watching a video clip, and sometimes just editing.

2. ethernet dies. Sometimes the ethernet (wired connection) just dies, and I can't restart it. Switching to wireless would connect me back to the network. Rebooting will also bring back eth0.

Anybody else getting the same issues? I'm using "Ubuntu Classic" by the way. I Unity a try, but the absence of a Task Bark was kinda slowing me down so I switched back. Also, I can't find a CPU temp monitor which I needed coz rendering videos heats up my cpu very fast.

Thanks.

---

### Post by rafaelcoelho on 2011-05-21
my gnome classic is crashing very often too since I upgraded to 11.04

does anyone knows how to investigate it? I tried looking at ~/.xsession-errors and /var/log/Xorg.0.log but didn't find anything that could help me

---

### Post by itair on 2011-05-29
Here too - heard no such complaints from unity users (I use the classic gnome)

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-29
Users are having more success with a fresh installation disc than with dist-upgrade right now. I'm still at 10.10 for that reason.

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-05-29
> **linuxinstalledfromhdd said:**
> Users are having more success with a fresh installation disc than with dist-upgrade right now. I'm still at 10.10 for that reason.

Yes, I would really recommend to all to do a fresh install if they really want to use 11.04, I see here so many problems with upgrades.

---

### Post by itair on 2011-05-29
My installation is fresh and yet my system crashes.

---

### Post by cyberbuff on 2011-05-31
Same issues here. Fresh installation but sporadic crashes.

---

### Post by Thirtysixway on 2011-06-06
I'm also having the same issue where it randomly logs me out/crashes

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-06
> **Thirtysixway said:**
> I'm also having the same issue where it randomly logs me out/crashes

I had lots and lots of issues with 11.04 (even my printer that worked perfectly in 10.10 would spit out blank pages in 11.04), and then I did a fresh install of 10.10, and everything is back to normal.  Here's a nice walkthrough to get that up and running for yourselves again:

[http://cinderbox.net/2010/12/23/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-10-10-aka-maverick-meerkat/](http://cinderbox.net/2010/12/23/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-10-10-aka-maverick-meerkat/)

And use a live bootable USB Flash Drive of Ubuntu to install it because it makes it go that much faster during the installation too. Like 10-15 minutes tops.

---

### Post by cyberbuff on 2011-06-08
okay, I don't know whether this will work for others. So, I removed compiz-core and compiz-plugins and that worked. No crashes for last 7 days :)
Since I am not into "cool" looks, compiz was a no-brainer for me anyway

---

### Post by kervin on 2011-06-11
Crashing a lot. :(

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-11
> **cyberbuff said:**
> okay, I don't know whether this will work for others. So, I removed compiz-core and compiz-plugins and that worked. No crashes for last 7 days :)
Since I am not into "cool" looks, compiz was a no-brainer for me anyway
Hi, are you using ubuntu classic? because unity is a plugin of compiz if you remove it I think unity well be broken.

---

### Post by gaelr on 2011-07-20
Hi all,

I am new here and to Ubuntu. I moved from Fedora to Ubuntu as it looks a bit more user friendly...

However, I had the same issue as reported here: from time to time, gnome (gdm) restarts and I loose all my work ...
I am using classic Ubuntu.

I am running a couple of programs that could be the offenders:

[LIST]
[*]Nvidia drivers (XIO:  fatal IO error 104 ) seems related to [http://fossplanet.com/f10/%5Bbug-519265%5D-re-x-session-crashes-xio-fatal-io-error-104-a-141543/](http://fossplanet.com/f10/%5Bbug-519265%5D-re-x-session-crashes-xio-fatal-io-error-104-a-141543/)
[*]Virtual Box, running Windows 7
[*]Flash
[*]Chrome beta (I saw posts on other forums about it ...)
[/LIST]
This is a very fresh installation: from yesterday.
My home folder has been fully imported from my fedora installation, including all the hidden folders but I did some cleaning by removing what was not necessary... I do not know if this could influence the stability...

Can anyone shed some light on this problem and how to get rid of it?
Any help would be much appreciated!
Thanks in advance

Gael

---

### Post by write2kerry on 2011-07-26
Having the same problem on 10.10  I also run the NVidia drivers, Virtual Box and Chrome.  Mine was an update and didn't begin till about the last couple of months after I upgraded to 10.10.

---

