---
title: "8.10, adde xfce to ubuntu. How do I get a volume icon ?"
date: 2009-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brjoon1021 on 2009-05-07
Usually with xfce distros there is a volume icon (you know, for the music volume etc...) that can be added to the toolbar. Well, I added Xfce from the repository to my ubuntu installation to have both xfce and gnome. I can't figure out how to add a volume control.

Thanks,

b

---

### Post by BslBryan on 2009-05-07
Hello, brjoon1021. :-)

It's pretty simple, actually. 

Just, right-click --> Add New Item, --> Volume Control Plugin.

Hope I've been of some help! :-)

---

### Post by brjoon1021 on 2009-05-08
Thanks for your help, but that is exactly what I said did not work. There is no volume control plugin for the toolbar.

---

### Post by BslBryan on 2009-05-08
Sorry, but as you never said that outright, I did not know.  

There has seemingly always been a problem with the xfce volume applet, and there are various workarounds.  I have not, however, found your exact problem.

If you'd like, [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/xfce4-mixer/+bug/90261") is the report with the most workarounds, I think, but if it doesn't solve your problem, some Googling will have to do until you find a solution.

Just don't give up on trying to find one, because everything can work, it just might take a little time. :-)

Best to you, brjoon1021, and good luck.

---

### Post by dLeon on 2009-05-08
Hello brjoon1021,
Are you sure you're installing the right package? The Volume Control package that usually sit on taskbar is the one without alsa in its name.

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2009-05-08
Did you install xfce4-mixer? That's the package with the panel plugin. It will show up as 'Mixer' in the panel's 'Add New Items ...' dialog.

---

### Post by brjoon1021 on 2009-05-10
I had not installed xfce-mixer. I have now installed it and It allows control of volume but it is kind of cumbersome. when the volume icon is "pushed" it opens up a window. This works OK but how can I get a tidy and quicker control that works on the toolbar like the gnome or KDE desktops have ?

Thanks,

B

---

