---
title: "cdrom mount point"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cyan_Fire on 2009-04-30
Hello all,

I have a question about my cdrom mount point. Whenever I insert a cdrom, it mounts in "/media/[disc-name]", for example "/media/Ubuntu 8.10 i386". I would expect it to mount in /media/crdrom0 instead, which /media/cdrom symlinks to.

Do you know why this is happening? Is it standard behavior?

My fstab is:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0

LABEL=linuxroot / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro,relatime 0 1

LABEL=vistaroot /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
LABEL=winhome /media/winhome ntfs-3g fmask=111,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2

# Entry for /dev/sda4 :
UUID=ca0a3d9b-bee1-4715-8097-d00e68233bbc none swap sw 0 0
LABEL=linuxhome /home ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro,relatime 0 2
```

As you can tell, it's heavily manually-modified. Should there be a cdrom entry in there?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by sigmarhophi on 2009-04-30
Yes, the cdrom mount is by default /media/"cd name"  however, you can change the behavior by naming your own.  
Create in your /media folder a new folder and call it what ever.  I called mine the name of the cdrom as for I have several different types.

Then add the command to your fstab to mount the cdrom at startup

/dev/cdrom0 /media/cdrom auto auto

Adjust the names accordingly.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-04-30
A new line like this (starting from far left, adjust red if needed
```
/dev/scd[COLOR="Red"]0[/COLOR]       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0       0
```

Make sure that the drive is /dev/scd0 (may be /dev/scd1
check by running
 ```

sudo lshw -C disk
```

Also make sure there is a cdrom0 folder in /media/, if not create one

---

### Post by Cyan_Fire on 2009-04-30
mc4man, thanks that line worked perfectly! I owe you one.

A side note, though, anyone know why my symlink in /dev is /dev/cdrom5 instead of /dev/cdrom? On my xubuntu laptop it is the latter, which is a bit more user-friendly.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-05-01
> anyone know why my symlink in /dev is /dev/cdrom5 instead of /dev/cdrom

Post your complete out put of 
```
sudo lshw -C disk
```

Also maybe some relevant info here

```
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-cd.rules
```


(( if you see multiple entries in ....-cd.rules and your current cdrom drive is listed near or at the bottom, or listed twice, then go 
```
gksudo gedit /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-cd.rules
```


Delete everything but this, save and reboot. Then ck. the sudo lshw....again (when rebooting don't have any usb drives connected


> # This file maintains persistent names for CD/DVD reader and writer devices.
# See udev(7) for syntax.
#
# Entries are automatically added by the 75-persistent-cd-generator.rules
# file; however you are also free to add your own entries provided you
# add the ENV{GENERATED}=1 flag to your own rules as well.




Note that it is perfectly safe to deleete the entries in 70 .....cd.rules, it will be re-written upon reboot
( I clear it once and a while due to sandisk usb drives which get entries and mess up the /dev link for my occasional use of a couple of  external dvd drives

Should always be cleared and reset when replacing a drive

If unsure just post

---

### Post by Cyan_Fire on 2009-05-01
Perfect, clearing the udev .rules file did the trick. Good to know that I should clear it when changing hardware. Thanks again!

---

