---
title: "24.04 live USB cannot open another USB drive"
date: 2024-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2024-04-26
I tried booting Ubuntu, Xubuntu, Ubuntu-cinnamon 24.04 LTS live USBs.
All of them boot to the desktop with no problem.

If I insert a USB thumb drive I can't see it in the file manager.
Xfce Thunar default setting is to auto mount and open disks. That doesn't work.
I don't remember if the other flavors auto mount and open disks & media.
This happens with FAT32 and EXT4 formatted USB drives on all three *buntu flavors I tried.

I have never experienced this on any other distro's live USB before.
Did disk mounting privileges or something change in 24.04?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2024-04-26
Xubuntu has the **"gnome-disk-utility**" package and make sure that **udisks2** package is installed.

---

### Post by donald187 on 2024-04-26
> **rattskjelke said:**
> 
I have never experienced this on any other distro's live USB before.
Did disk mounting privileges or something change in 24.04?
I happen to have an Ubuntu 24.04 live usb.  Its files app (I assume still Nautilus) was able to open another usb (formatted FAT32) as usual.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2024-04-27
Must be A Xubuntu  Flaw, I didn't see other drives with the New live installer.

---

### Post by Adam_GUI on 2024-06-16
I just ran into this, myself.
There's a work-around.

Boot into the live environment.
Launch the installation and proceed until it states that there is an update to the installer.
The installer will prompt you to close and restart it.

Once you've updated and closed the installer, the drives should appear in places/Desktop.

---

