---
title: ".Trash-1004"
date: 2010-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Amadameus on 2010-11-05
Good morning, Ubuntu peoples!

My best Google-fu returned no results related to a mysterious [COLOR="#999922"]/.Trash-1004[/COLOR] directory that's appeared on a removable drive recently. I know of the [COLOR="#999922"]/.Trash-1000[/COLOR] (and that directory is *also* present) but despite hitting 'Empty Trash' on Ubuntu's side, there are still several files in [COLOR="#999922"]/.Trash-1004[/COLOR].

Clearly it's another type of trash directory, because I see to recall 'deleting' most of the files in it several months ago. What boggles me is why they weren't sent to [COLOR="#999922"]/.Trash-1000[/COLOR] or purged when I emptied the trash!

My initial guess is that either something funny happened with my out-of-date box(very unlikely) or this new directory is some kind of container for a corrupted or botched file transfer(unusual, but not quite so unlikely). Has anyone else seen this on their drives?

Thanks very much for the help!
-Amad

> [CENTER]**Technical Details:**[/CENTER]

**Removable drive** is a 1TB Seagate external HDD I use to shuttle music and movies between friends. To make transfers easier, I kept the drive formatted FAT32. It runs at 480 Mbps and 7200rpm. (Side note: I highly recommend the drive - it works wonderfully, the price is great, and the only real downside is the flimsy plastic stand to keep it upright. Passive cooling while lying flat makes me a little worried.)

**Primary box** is running Ubuntu 10.04 and has been totally offline since installing the OS.
My new house not in range for DSL and likely will not be for years, this does not bother me but is relevant because it means I'm essentially running standard 10.04 without updates, ever. Recently I grabbed all the deb files and dependencies necessary to get Amarok and Bluefish, but aside from these two installs the OS is pretty much unchanged.

**Other boxes** the drive connects to are a laptop running Win7 and a desktop with the same [s]virus[/s] OS. They're not mine and not owned by tech-savvy people, but I doubt any [s]malware[/s] filesystem managers have affected the drive. This laptop is how I discovered the [COLOR="#999922"]/.Trash-1004[/COLOR] directory in the first place.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-05
It's just the trash folder. You can delete it if you want, as it'll be recreated if you delete anything off that drive.

On a linux system, that folder is hidden by default (due to having the . in front of the filename), but it wouldn't be hidden on a Windows system.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-11-05
.trash-1004 is the trash folder created for user 1004, and so isn't cleared when user 1000 purges his/her wastebin. You can delete it as user 1000, assuming that you can use sudo, or are a member of the group which owns the file and the sticky bit isn't set.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2010-11-05
> **WorMzy said:**
> .trash-1004 is the trash folder created for user 1004, and so isn't cleared when user 1000 purges his/her wastebin. You can delete it as user 1000, assuming that you can use sudo, or are a member of the group which owns the file and the sticky bit isn't set.

Didn't know that. Thanks for the info. :)

---

### Post by Amadameus on 2010-11-05
> **WorMzy said:**
> .trash-1004 is the trash folder created for user 1004, and so isn't cleared when user 1000 purges his/her wastebin. You can delete it as user 1000, assuming that you can use sudo, or are a member of the group which owns the file and the sticky bit isn't set.

That's interesting! I didn't know Ubuntu made separate trash bins for users. It makes sense, but I hadn't thought of that at the time.

Thanks very much for the help!

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2010-11-05
From the [FreeDesktop.org Trash specification]("http://www.ramendik.ru/docs/trashspec.html"):

> (2) If an $topdir/.Trash directory is absent, an $topdir/.Trash-$uid directory is to be used as the user's trash directory for this device/partition. $uid is the user's numeric identifier.

---

