---
title: "13.04 32 bit libglew1.5"
date: 2013-12-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by OBI_Ron on 2013-12-07
Hello Everyone,

I have searched the forums, and cannot seem to get an answer for this.  I have a dependency issue with makehuman regarding libglew1.5.  I tried installing libglew1.5 usun apt:

apt-get install libglew1.5
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Note, selecting 'libglew1.5-dev' for regex 'libglew1.5'
Note, selecting 'libglew-dev' instead of 'libglew1.5-dev'
libglew-dev is already the newest version.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  linux-headers-3.8.0-19 linux-headers-3.8.0-19-generic linux-headers-3.8.0-31 linux-headers-3.8.0-31-generic linux-image-3.8.0-19-generic
  linux-image-3.8.0-31-generic linux-image-extra-3.8.0-19-generic linux-image-extra-3.8.0-31-generic linux-image-generic
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
**0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.**

Do I have any options that will NOT break anything else?

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-12-07
OBI_Ron; Hi !

I'll take a stab at this.

Have you seen:
> 
sysop@1304mini:~$ apt-cache depends makehuman
makehuman
  Depends: libc6
 |Depends: libgl1-mesa-glx
  Depends: <libgl1>
    libgl1-mesa-glx
 [color=red] Depends: libglew1.8[/color]
 |Depends: libglu1-mesa
  Depends: <libglu1>
    libglu1-mesa
  Depends: libpython2.7
  Depends: libsdl1.2debian
  Depends: python
  Depends: python2.7
  Depends: fontconfig
    fontconfig:i386
  Depends: makehuman-data
  Depends: libsdl-image1.2
 Suggests: makehuman-doc
  Recommends: aqsis
  Conflicts: makehuman:i386
sysop@1304mini:~$

Let's start by seeing what state the package manager is in, and what the package manager thinks:
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```
What, pray tell, is your requirement to install an old version of the library ?

[INDENT][INDENT]willing to help
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by OBI_Ron on 2013-12-08
Bashing-om,

Thanks for the repy.  Actually, it is, or was I should say now for thr stable version of Makehuman.  However, I did download one of the nightly builds, and it seems to work fine as is.

I think for the time being, I will stick with that.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-12-08
OBI_Ron; Great !

Please mark this thread then as solved, 1st post -> thread tools .

[INDENT]all's well that 
[INDENT][INDENT]ends well
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

