---
title: "14.04 - Make shortcut for a windows network share on desktop"
date: 2015-01-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Harold_Sumrall on 2015-01-09
I'm a good person, do my prayers, pay my taxes. But filesharing between Ubuntu and Windows just doesn't work for me.
Tried sharing an ubuntu folder with my xp computer worked for sometime but then got slapped with Access Denied errors.

[IMG]http://i38.servimg.com/u/f38/12/97/34/48/denied10.jpg[/IMG]

So thought of sharing a folder on xp computer and accessing it from Ubuntu 14.04

[IMG]http://i38.servimg.com/u/f38/12/97/34/48/xp10.jpg[/IMG]

But I would like to make a shortcut to that share on my ubuntu desktop. 
Please, the bookmarks or nautilus sidebar wont do, it has to be the desktop.

[IMG]http://i38.servimg.com/u/f38/12/97/34/48/ubuntu10.jpg[/IMG]

Is this possible guys ? Any help would be appreciated, Thanx :(

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2015-01-09
Just create a text file with an arbitrary name and an extension of '.desktop'  in your directory '~/Desktop' . The contents should look like this
```

[Desktop Entry]
Version=1.0
Type=Link
Name=Public Share
Comment=
Icon=user-share
URL=smb://server/share

```

You'll obviously want to change the name of the server and the share in the URL-line.
Other Desktop Environments than Unity have tools to create these, Unity for some reason doesn't.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-01-09
try this from a terminal
```
gsettings set org.gnome.nautilus.desktop volumes-visible true
```
this will show all external volumes, both local and remote which are mounted to the machine.
You can also add the network share to easily access the volumes with
```
gsettings set org.gnome.nautilus.desktop network-icon-visible true
```

Both of these commands can also be done using a graphical tool called dconf editor, which you can install; simply look for dconf editor in the software center.
The paths are as shown above org >> gnome >> nautilus >> desktop, there you will see the entry, just toggle the check boxes and it'll automatically add the icons.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Harold_Sumrall on 2015-01-17
@[**[COLOR=#000000]Holger_Gehrke[/COLOR]**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1961578"), @[**[COLOR=#C61919][B]deadflowr**[/COLOR][/B]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1276577") - Thanks for replying, solution by deadflowr worked for me, that was exactly what I was looking for, that doesn't mean that Holger_Gehrke was wrong (since I didn't try what he suggested). Sorry for late reply.

---

