---
title: "i386 or amd64"
date: 2009-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Celestika6 on 2009-01-06
Trying to install MPlayer... my computer keeps saying something about needing win32 codecs... yadda yadda... anywho, how do I tell if my computer runs i386 or amd64?

I'm using the instructions from this site: [LINKAGE]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/install-mplayer-and-multimedia-codecs-libdvdcss2w32codecsw64codecs-in-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex.html")

I just installed intrepid ibex a couple days ago and normally I run Banshee music player and Totem movie player.

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-01-06
Open a terminal and type in

```
uname -m
```

If the output you get is x86_64 then you are 64-bit sir :)

---

### Post by Celestika6 on 2009-01-06
That's miss, not sir... lol.

Anyway, I feel kind of special with a capital R right now... I went through all the trouble of installing MPlayer to get these codecs, and when I try to open the file that I've been troubled with (A song I downloaded off FrostWire) it's STILL giving me the same error message. Every time I try to open the file, it opens it with Totem, even though it's an Mp3 file, and I get "The playback of this movie requires a audio/x-asf-unknown decoder plugin which is not installed." If I try to open it with Banshee I get that little white X by the track and if I open it with MPlayer is just doesn't go at all.

WHAT AM I DOING WRONG!!??

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-01-06
> **Celestika6 said:**
> Trying to install MPlayer... my computer keeps saying something about needing win32 codecs... yadda yadda... anywho, how do I tell if my computer runs i386 or amd64?
......

If it asks for win32 codecs then you have a win32 system, install those codecs as per the instructions.

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-01-06
> Anyway, I feel kind of special with a capital R right now... I went through all the trouble of installing MPlayer to get these codecs, and when I try to open the file that I've been troubled with (A song I downloaded off FrostWire) it's STILL giving me the same error message. Every time I try to open the file, it opens it with Totem, even though it's an Mp3 file, and I get "The playback of this movie requires a audio/x-asf-unknown decoder plugin which is not installed." If I try to open it with Banshee I get that little white X by the track and if I open it with MPlayer is just doesn't go at all.

WHAT AM I DOING WRONG!!??

Have you installed the codecs?  Applications > Add/Remove > Show: set to 'All Available Applications' > Search: codec > click on box next to Gstreamer ffmpeg video plugin > apply changes > apply > close

---

### Post by Celestika6 on 2009-01-07
> **Sef said:**
> Have you installed the codecs?  Applications > Add/Remove > Show: set to 'All Available Applications' > Search: codec > click on box next to Gstreamer ffmpeg video plugin > apply changes > apply > close

Did what you said... but the Gstreamer ffmpeg video plugin is already installed. Still having issues.

---

### Post by jocko on 2009-01-07
Make sure you have installed the package "non-free-codecs". It will install either the win32 or win64 codecs, depending on which version you have.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-01-07
You can get the w32codecs from the Medibuntu repositories. To enable the Medibuntu repositories, go [here]("http://help.ubuntu.com/community/Medibuntu") and set them up for the version you are running, be sure to scroll down and set the gpg key. Once the repositories are setup search synaptic fro w32codec. It might also be an idea to install the ubuntu-restricted-extras meta package.

Jim

---

### Post by leveliv on 2009-01-07
You could also check out the Easy Ubuntu script I think its called and 

[http://www.ubuntuguide.org](http://www.ubuntuguide.org) I know that sites helped me when I needed it.

^^^ 
you'd be silly not to bookmark it

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2009-01-07
> **leveliv said:**
> you'd be silly not to bookmark it

I did not bookmark it... so am I silly?

---

