---
title: "*.tar.gz how to unzip/decompress/extract? Please help!"
date: 2009-07-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Eli Turk on 2009-07-26
I have a 8.6 GB (9,222,067.545 B to be exact) *tar.gz file that is a compilation of many files. How might I unzip/decompress(/extract the files from) it?

Also (just a bonus question :D), when I unzip it, what will the new unzipped size be?

Thanks for taking the time to read this and for any help given! I greatly appreciate it!

---

### Post by madsmeg on 2009-07-26
you can very simply right click the file and select "Extract here", bobs your uncle, one extracted tar.gz.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-07-26
Or in a terminal, type **tar zxvf filename.tar.gz**. This assumes you're in the same directory as the tar.gz.

---

### Post by nmaster on 2009-07-26
> **oldos2er said:**
> Or in a terminal, type **tar zxvf filename.tar.gz**. This assumes you're in the same directory as the tar.gz.

i don't really understand the man page with respect to the 'f' option.

```

       -f, --file [HOSTNAME:]F
              use  archive  file or device F (otherwise value of TAPE environ&#8208;
              ment variable; if unset, "-", meaning stdin/stdout)


```i thought tar -xf filename.tar would extract (x) the tar into a new folder (f).  could someone explain? also, why use the verbose option?  i understand the 'z', because in this case the file is *.tar.gz.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2009-07-26
-f tells tar your using a file as input instead of stdin. -z tells tar to use gzip to uncompress the archive. If you wanted to extract to a specific directory you want the -C option

```
tar xzf compressedArchive.tar.gz -C /path/to\ extraction/folder
```

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-07-26
I use the verbose variable simply because I like to, that's all.

---

### Post by nmaster on 2009-07-26
thanks for the explanation!

---

### Post by VCoolio on 2009-07-26
Since I can't keep the options apart for extracting .tar.gz, .bz2, .zip and what not I recommend the unp package. No more hassle, just "unp whatever.archive" and it will be extracted.

---

### Post by Eli Turk on 2009-07-29
Thanks to all! I believe that solves this question!:D

---

