---
title: "7.10 Mount and Swap"
date: 2007-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tribeca26 on 2007-10-18
Alright, I have 2 hard drives, but i simply want to both Linux and Winxp on a single hard drive. I already have it partitioned(using partition magic) out with a swap and ext3 partition. Now, when I've done this before I have ruined my XP load, but i did do it correctly and have forgotten how to.. I want to chose to install it to the Ext3 correct? Do i choose its mount point as "/" ? And i simply leave swap as swap. Finally, do i leave my Windows partitions as "/media/sdd" or do i put them as /windows? My other NTFS (separate hdd) partition that i simply have music and video on i should leave it label as /media/hdd or whatever? Any help would be highly appreciated, i can't afford to corrupt windows again :]

---

### Post by r-mo on 2007-10-18
ext3 should be /
swap should be swap

I tend to set mount points for windows to something like
/media/WinXP  for c:
/media/Data   for ntfs storage

be careful when you set the mount points though, sometimes the manual partioner in the installer really want to resize your carefully made partitions :( just make sure you press the up arrow until the size won't go up anymore if this happens

---

### Post by thhjimmy on 2007-10-18
Hi,
if you already partition the harddisk then just leave it to Ubuntu setup.
It will prompt you if you where you want to install the new linux.
So just choose to install onto the linux partition. :popcorn:

---

### Post by tribeca26 on 2007-10-18
thank you all, so leaving NTFS as media/hdd or whatever wont touch them?

---

