---
title: "x86 vs i386"
date: 2008-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tufcamman on 2008-04-01
Hi, I just have a general computer question I've been wondering for a long time.

Can someone explain what the difference between x86 and i386 is.  I've tried looking it up in Wikipedia and what not and have an idea, but if someone could put it in layman's terms that would be great.  I've seen these two terms thrown around and have always wondered exactly what they mean.  Thanks!

---

### Post by olskar on 2008-04-01
The intel processors had names like 186, 286, 386 and 486 therefore x86 :)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-04-01
> **tufcamman said:**
> Hi, I just have a general computer question I've been wondering for a long time.

Can someone explain what the difference between x86 and i386 is.  I've tried looking it up in Wikipedia and what not and have an idea, but if someone could put it in layman's terms that would be great.  I've seen these two terms thrown around and have always wondered exactly what they mean.  Thanks!

x86 is now a generic term for things that are compatible with the CPU instruction set based on the 80386 processor, all subsequent CPUs that support this instruction set come under the "x86" umbrella (even though they can do a lot more).

Virtually all Intel CPUs - and AMD, along with others - are "x86" processors.

i386 is a specific definition of using and supporting just the instruction set of the 80386, and none of the subsequent extra capabilities that are available in later CPUs.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-04-01
> **olskar said:**
> The intel processors had names like 186, 286, 386 and 486 therefore x86 :)

To be accurate, they were actually 8086, 80186, 80286 80386(sx & dx), 80486 (same) and then Intel renamed the upcoming 80586 to "Pentium" because they couldn't trademark the numbers they previously used (which other CPU manufacturers also used).

---

