---
title: "./install: 57: Syntax error: &quot;(&quot; unexpected make: *** [install] Error 2"
date: 2007-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bubbasheeko on 2007-08-31
I am trying to install quasar-1.4.7_GPL on Ubuntu 6.10.  After getting all the dependencies installed I completed ./configure without a hitch, I completed make without a hitch and then it stopped at make install  when I received error the below.

[B]make[1]: Entering directory `/home/kdavidson/Desktop/quasar-1.4.7_GPL/postgresql_driver'
make[1]: Nothing to be done for `first'.
make[1]: Leaving directory `/home/kdavidson/Desktop/quasar-1.4.7_GPL/postgresql_driver'
./install all
./install: 57: Syntax error: "(" unexpected
make: *** [install] Error 2[/B]

I did make a mistake early on, I did not install ICU before I did all this, I remembered after the error and I am now using ICU from build  icu4c-3_6-src.tgz.  

I ran through the configure, make and make install again.  Same dead end.  I did a search of Quasar's website nothing.  I did a search on Google.  Found a couple of finds...but of course they were drops in the forum threads that nobody responded to.   

Has anybody have the slightest as to what is causing this?

Thanks!

---

### Post by diatribe on 2007-08-31
it looks like on line 57 it has an unexpected operator, (.  try going to that line in the configure file and see if this is the case

---

### Post by Bubbasheeko on 2007-08-31
I checked the configure file and I do not think I am looking in the right spot.  On line 57 I found (in bold):

configure:
...
# Required to use basename.
if expr a : '\(a\)' >/dev/null 2>&1; then
  as_expr=expr
else
**  as_expr=false**
fi

if (basename /) >/dev/null 2>&1 && test "X`basename / 2>&1`" = "X/"; then
  as_basename=basename
else
  as_basename=false
fi
...


Now seeing I was running make install - I checked makefile.in.  I have included what was on line 57 (in bold)

makefile.in:
...
all: $(MAKEFILES)
	cd utility && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd widget && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd business && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd db_driver && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd database && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd quasard && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd quasar_clientd && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd quasar_setup && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd repgen && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	**cd gui && $(MAKE) -f Makefile**
	cd quasar && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd quasar_report && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd quasar_import && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd merge_tr && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
	cd model_editor && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
ifeq (@BUILD_POSTGRESQL@,yes)
	cd postgresql_driver && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
endif
ifeq (@BUILD_FIREBIRD@,yes)
	cd firebird_driver && $(MAKE) -f Makefile
endif
...

I am still new at Ubuntu, but looking at this I do not see an problem.  I am not certain that 57 is a reference to a line number - isn't that a syntax error code?  

Any further suggestions?

Thanks!

---

### Post by jonny on 2007-09-02
I've sucessfully built Quasar on every version of Ubuntu from Warty back in 2004 through to Feisty.  Unfortunately, I no longer have my cheat sheet for Dapper, but, looking at your error message, I suggest that you don't have the all the Postgresql dependencies installed.  Have you overlooked the slightly oddly named libpq-dev library, perhaps?

You don't say what instructions you're using, but I don't think that any of the various how-tos in these forums are up to date and that might also be causing problems for you.  For example, I'm pretty sure that Dapper's ICU packages are much more up to date than in earlier versions of Ubuntu, so you should have been able to install those packages through Synaptic rather than building from source.

I've created a wiki page on Quasar ( [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/QuasarAccountingInstallation](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/QuasarAccountingInstallation) ), but it only covers Edgy and Feisty.  You'll need to be a little careful with Dapper as some packages might have slightly different names and/or some configuration files might have moved, but it'll give you a much better starting point than the instructions you're using at present.  When (not if!) you get it working, don't forget to add some version-specific notes to the wiki so that other Dapper users don't suffer the same problems as you.

---

### Post by scribe63 on 2007-11-27
I'm experiencing this same or similar issue
.
This is the error i'm getting.
./install all
./install: 57: Syntax error: "(" unexpected

The error states "./install".

This is my line 57 for **"install"** and **"install.in"**
**function install_all ()**

This is my line 57 for **"install-sh"** file
 **while [ x"$1" != x ]; do**

These three file are in the quasar-1.4.7_GPL folder.

Any help to solve this issue is kindly appreciated.

---

### Post by pointone on 2007-11-27
Edit the makefile to use /bin/bash instead of /bin/sh (change the first line of the script).

---

### Post by scribe63 on 2007-11-28
Thanks for that pointer.

It also applied to the error i was getting.

./install all
./install: 57: Syntax error: "(" unexpected

I initially  had changed #!/bin/sh to #!/bin/bash in the "install-sh" file, but had to go back and also make same change in the "install.in" file as well.

After copying over the untarred quasar folder and replaced the old i was working with, the application was able to build without any errors.

These are my steps to build quasar as a deb package.
Build resources and quasar dependencies:

sudo aptitude install build-essential libqt3-mt-dev tcl8.4-dev tk8.4-dev libpq-dev qt3-apps-dev postgresql-8.2 libicu36-dev xinetd postgresql-server-dev-8.2 autotools-dev fakeroot dh-make devscripts

tar xvzf quasar-1.4.7_GPL
mv quasar-1.4.7_GPL quasar-1.4.7-GPL
cd quasar-1.4.7-GPL

Changed #!/bin/sh to #!/bin/bash in the following two files.
install.sh
install.in

$dh_make --single --file ../quasar-1.4.7_GPL.tgz

cd debian
Edit changelog and control to suit you.

cd ..

Then Ran
debuild -i -us -uc -b

Now i'm getting this.
dpkg-genchanges: error: badly formed line in files list file, line 1

---

