---
title: "System freezes when i maximize a window"
date: 2009-06-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AlokaParyetra on 2009-06-15
Hi, this is a problem i used to have intermittently on a previous install of jaunty 64bit on my laptop. but, since re-installing ubuntu 64-bit on the same laptop (after a trying out kubuntu), it happens all the time.

whenever i maximize a window, and i'm working on my external monitor, the system freezes. At first, the mouse move veeeery slow, then the whole thing freezes. 

I don't have this problem when i'm using my laptop screen, only when i'm using my external monitor. When using my external monitor, the laptop screen is turned off.

I have an NVidia GeForce 8200 M, and my monitor (if it helps) is an Acer H243H. The monitor is connected via HDMI to the laptop. I'm using the 180.44 nVidia drivers, and they were installed using envy (because for some reason, Ubuntu Restricted Drivers didn't give me the option of enabling the drivers).

Any help will be much appreciated, thanks in advance.

---

### Post by AlokaParyetra on 2009-06-16
So, tested some more stuff, and it turns out that the external monitor is fine if i put in on a lower resolution. But, the moment i put it back to its real resolution (1920x1080), i can't maximize windows again. My installation used to be able to maximize windows, and all other operations work fine, so i don't think it is an issue with my graphics card not being able to support/handle the high resolution. It works on windows too, so that is why is suspect it is a linux issue.

Messing around with my xorg.conf, i found that if i lower the resolution in the .conf file by just changing one line and nothing else, it works. This is the line in question:

    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: 1920x1080 +0+0"

If i change the resolution to 1680x1050, it works. I didn't change anything else in the xorg file. Here is my entire xorg.conf:

> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
    Option	"DontZap"	"False"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer H243H"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8200M G"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: 1920x1080 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


I'm planning on experimenting with another distro later today to see if that resolves the problem. Any help would be greatly appreciated. I'm familiar with Ubuntu, and don't really want to have to switch. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by AlokaParyetra on 2009-06-17
Unfortunately, the new distro i was going to try out (Fedora 11) didn't install. So, i'm back to using yet another clean installation of ubuntu 9.04.

I'm thinking of installing the new nvidia drivers (185.something). Any help on how to do so? I downloaded the .run file and sh'ed it in the terminal, but then i can't install the driver because the x is still running (what the install file says).

So, how can i install the new drivers?

---

### Post by AlokaParyetra on 2009-06-17
Ok, so i rolled back the drivers to the 173 version, and i can now maximize windows without any freezes. However, i can't interact with maximized windows now. So, the window will maximize just fine, but if i try scrolling or something, nothing happens. I have to unmaximize the window to see the changes to it.

As always, any help will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by AlokaParyetra on 2009-06-17
SOLVED!!!!

Upgraded to the 185 drivers, and everything works.

---

