---
title: "10.10 PulseAudio configured for per-user session"
date: 2011-03-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-03-01
Is anyone else having this issue?  All of a sudden a few days ago, my system will not boot properly.  I can log in and do stuff via the terminal but no GUI.  I try to start X and it says that there are no screens.  I don't know how to fix this.  Google yielded a few people with the same issue but there are no solutions.

My hardware info is in my signature.  Also, there is only one other thread on the forum on the topic but the poster didn't get an answer.  A screenshot of the issue is provided in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1139415&highlight=pulse+audio+boot](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1139415&highlight=pulse+audio+boot)


Thanks.

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-03-02
*Bump*

I can't X started and ctrl-alt-f7 doesn't work either.

Here is a screenshot:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/m0NlY.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-03-03
*Bump*

No one else is having this issue or has any ideas?

This is what happens when I try ctrl-alt-f7:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/RbOSX.jpg[/IMG]

I can get into graphics safe mode but am unable to find a fix.  An X error:

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/wzD8f.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-03-03
*bump*


Seriously, no one?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2011-03-03
I think you don't get replies because of the really misleading thread title, which is a random line from onscreen output.
Have you manually installed the nvidia driver?

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-03-04
In retrospect, I guess I could have named the thread better.

Yep, I have the most current drivers installed via ppa.  I tried installing and removing them several times as well.

Thanks for the reply.

---

### Post by jlsjonas on 2011-11-16
have about the same issue, altough:
1) fresh install
2) not even getting the warning in X; about the same warning but spit out in console
have found a fix already? (at time of writing I'm trying re-install, will let you know if that worked
re-install didn't work :sadface:
will need to hold on to windows (once again...) for now :-(

---

### Post by Foxcow on 2011-11-16
> **jlsjonas said:**
> have about the same issue, altough:
1) fresh install
2) not even getting the warning in X; about the same warning but spit out in console
have found a fix already? (at time of writing I'm trying re-install, will let you know if that worked
re-install didn't work :sadface:
will need to hold on to windows (once again...) for now :-(


Eventually, I got it to work. It was because I was configuring my dual screens in a funky way.  Pulse Audio actually had nothing to do with the issue.  Hope this helps.

---

