---
title: "8.10...lock/unlock of files?"
date: 2008-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Len Tyree on 2008-11-22
files showing a lock on them.

many of my files i brought over from windows are/have a lock on them.  also some of the files i am working with, suddenly they become locked.

so how do i get these files unlocked? so i can worjk with them.

also, exactly what does the lock mean?  the files are unaccessable?  the files are unusable?  the files can never be accessed?

i have searched several books i have concerning linux and ubuntu but have found no references, or useful explanations of the lock feature.

thanks, len tyree. [http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon5.gif](http://ubuntuforums.org/images/icons/icon5.gif)

---

### Post by taurus on 2008-11-22
It could be that you are not the owner of those files so you cannot modify them.  Open a terminal and make sure you are in the directory where those files are and run this command to see who is the actual owner of those files.

Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal
```
ls -la
```

---

### Post by mc4man on 2008-11-22
Many times in windows (particularly xp pro) files are marked as 'read only' and that will transfer over when copied into linux. 
Also any files copied from read only media (cdr, dvdr) will also  be locked ('read only' on files, 'access files' on folders.

Assuming you are the 'owner' you can simply right click -> properties -> permissions on any of them and change there.

I find for a large number of them it's easier to do in bulk with 'chmod u+rw -R'

To make it easy I have a folder in home called fix, whenever copying files and or folders I know will be locked I copy to there first before moving to intended destination.
Then a simple ```
chmod u+rw -R fix
``` in the terminal squares then up.

---

