---
title: ".msi package installation problem"
date: 2009-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by docstafford on 2009-04-27
First of all greeetings to all my fellow Ubuntu(Is that near Dar es Salaam?) users. I have recently escaped from the the evil clutches of aliens from the BillGatsien (BG) empire where I was held captive for many years. I once worked for a fly by night telecom company called AT&T where I luxuriated in the sanity and order of my Unix/C language development engineering job and was  a local system administrator/Ghuru. During medical school however, I was captured and made to use a hideous system called Microsoft Windows. My brain washing was almost complete until one day one of the BG guards missed giving me my daily dose of updates (the called them updates but I knew them for what they were - actually security patches). While I have not foiled their attempt at world domination of the computer infrastructure I have run into a snag in returning into the Unix/Linux world. Now I just know one of my fellow Linux-using bretheren can help me out.
I am trying to load a client process (in .msi format) using msiexec and it does run the process until I get an error message generated (from within the app itself?). Apparently the client will not install because "It says" something about detecting another client already loaded. The app I am trying to load is a security client used to interface with a web hosted medical records system and when logged into the system (with the client running) one has to use a security fob - like a vpn? Anyway, does Ubuntu have some background client process sitting around that is being detected by the installation that is bumping me off? I'm not sure what that would be unless it is some sort of internet/networking job running in the background.
I shot off an email to the app hosting organization and I am expecting an answer in a few billion years or so.
I have been out of the Unix community for about 13 years and might at one time have known how to handle this and I feel bad about having to ask for help on a probably easy to answer question. BTW, I loaded the latest Ubuntu upgrade yesterday.

Cheers,
Bruce Stafford, DO
just another Unix lover

---

### Post by jespdj on 2009-04-27
.msi is a Microsoft Windows installation package. Are you trying to install Windows software on Ubuntu?

As you most likely know, Windows software doesn't normally run on Ubuntu. Do you have [Wine](http://www.winehq.org/) installed? It can run many Windows programs, but it's not compatible with everything. Maybe the Windows software that you're trying to use isn't fully compatible with Wine.

---

### Post by Kareeser on 2009-04-27
To follow up on jespdj's post, after installing wine, you can run the msi file by typing:

```
wine msiexec /i [filename]
```

---

