---
title: "17.10 Blank screen with Radeon graphics"
date: 2017-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sricks32 on 2017-12-02
I've just installed 17.10 on my wife's HP Pavilion with AMD Radeon (hybrid, I believe) graphics. When the system boots, there's just a blank screen. If I boot using the nomodeset option, then I get graphics, but the only resolution option in Gnome Settings is 800x600.

If I run dmesg | grep amdgpu I get this output:
```

[    2.213627] [drm:amdgpu_init [amdgpu]] *ERROR* VGACON disables amdgpu kernel modesetting.
[    2.261233] [drm:amdgpu_init [amdgpu]] *ERROR* VGACON disables amdgpu kernel modesetting.
[   10.366775] [drm:amdgpu_init [amdgpu]] *ERROR* VGACON disables amdgpu kernel modesetting.
[   10.452607] [drm:amdgpu_init [amdgpu]] *ERROR* VGACON disables amdgpu kernel modesetting.

```

I assume that this is due to the nomodeset boot option, but if I don't use that, I just get a blank screen.

On my awesome 800x600 screen I opened Software & Updates and went to the Additional Drivers tab. It gave me the option of using proprietary AMD processor microcode (amd64-microcode) which I installed, but this has not changed anything when booting either with or without nomodeset.

AMD's website has not been particularly helpful in this matter, and their drivers seem to only support up to 16.04 (with most only supporting 12.04 or 14.04). After some digging, though, I think this laptop has the A10-8700P APU.

What should I try next? I can make nomodeset persistent as a boot option, but 800x600 isn't really an option when I'm trying to convert my wife from Windows 10 to Ubuntu.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-12-02
Welcome to the forums, sricks32.

My first thought is: why Aardvark? If this is your wife's computer and she is unfamiliar with Linux, the last thing you want to do is force her to upgrade to a new version every six months, which is what you are doing installing a standard version like Aardvark (17.10). The latest LTS is Xenial, which is supported until 2021. Being LTS, it is also more stable and well-tested, less likely to give trouble (though no guarantees).

I suggest running her machine on a LiveUSB of Xenial. If it works well, then install that instead of Aardvark, and you won't have to wrestle with video at all.

If you still run into a video issue, then Xenial still has stability advantages elsewhere. This forum can help with that too.

If you insist on staying with Aardvark, please wait for advice from other forum members who are more familiar with it.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-12-02
I've seen a lot of blank screen reports for Carrizo graphics (A10-8700P is a Carrizo APU). 
Example: [https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=101483](https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=101483)
Maybe try booting with "iommu=soft" kernel parameter.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-12-02
One other thing you can try is the latest kernel:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/MainlineBuilds#Upstream_kernels_archive](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/MainlineBuilds#Upstream_kernels_archive)
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v4.15-rc1/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v4.15-rc1/)

---

### Post by sricks32 on 2017-12-02
@DuckHook
Yeah, I thought about 16.04 for that reason, but I went with 17.10 in the hopes of getting her on the 18.04 LTS with the new Gnome environment. I use Gnome on an Antergos installation, and she's pretty receptive to reinstalling once in the spring and then not again for a few years. 16.04 is still definitely a fallback option, though. Thanks for your response!

@Temujin
I'll have to try "iommu=soft." I'm not very familiar with the different kernel parameters and boot options. While I was out tonight I realized that I didn't know what version of the kernel 17.10 was using, I'll try updating if the kernel parameter you mentioned doesn't work. Thanks for taking some time to help out!

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2017-12-03
17.10 = 4.13.x kernel

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2017-12-03
> **sricks32 said:**
> …I thought about 16.04 for that reason, but I went with 17.10 in the hopes of getting her on the 18.04 LTS with the new Gnome environment. I use Gnome on an Antergos installation, and she's pretty receptive to reinstalling once in the spring and then not again for a few years. 16.04 is still definitely a fallback option, though…
For now, I recommend 16.04 Ubuntu-Gnome: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GetUbuntuGNOME](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuGNOME/GetUbuntuGNOME)

You can switch to plain Ubuntu when Beaver comes out in April/18.

Always make sure everything works on a LiveUSB first. Otherwise, pain for nothing.

---

### Post by sricks32 on 2017-12-05
iommu=soft didn't work. Thanks for the suggestion, though.

I think my next test will just be to try my Antergos live USB to see if maybe it's an upstream problem. I might test Antergos (since I have it handy), Ubuntu 16.04, and one or two others (Debian and/or Fedora) if it starts looking like an upstream issue. Basically, I'm wondering now if there's just not a compatible driver for my wife's APU.

> **DuckHook said:**
> Always make sure everything works on a LiveUSB first. Otherwise, pain for nothing.

Yeah, I noticed it in the live environment and knew that installing the OS was unlikely to solve anything by itself, but I thought troubleshooting might be easier with a full, persistent install. I probably should have tried the live USB of at least one other distro (or older Ubuntu) first since that would have been quicker.

---

