---
title: ".jar &quot;is not marked as executable.&quot; -this creates problems for newbies."
date: 2011-09-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by yanom on 2011-09-24
Soooo I try to open a .jar file (Java program). I get this:

[QUOTE=xubuntu]The file '/media/8A07-A343/PERSONALFILES/drjava-beta-20110822-r5448.jar' is not marked as executable.  If this was downloaded or copied from an untrusted source, it may be dangerous to run.  For more details, read about the executable bit.[/QUOTE]

So I can't just run the file by double-clicking it. I try to "mark the file as executable" but this is on my NTFS-formated hard drive so I can't mark it as executable. So in order to make it run I must use the command line:

```
java -jar drjava-beta-20110822-r5448.jar 
```
Problem solved, i got it open. Buttttttttt.... I talked to a few friends at school who just got Ubuntu and were trying to open .jar's but had never used the commandline before.

So basically the problem here is that the system doesn't want to open jar's that aren't marked executable. This is stupid and prevents newcomers to Ubuntu from just opening .jar files because they don't have the right Linux know-how. The system should just put up a message that says "You are about to open a Java program. Only open this program if you trust the source it was downloaded from. Proceed? "

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2011-09-24
What's one of the largest causes of viruses in Windows? Button-happy users who click before they read. Making it so the user manually sets the file as executable forces them to think about what they're doing, and thus reduces viruses. The fact that you had to use the command line for this is because it was on an NTFS partition, it's a much better choice to use an ext* or other made-for-UNIX File system. Then you can easily mark it as executable via GUI (yes, I know this is not always possible, it's not that implausible. I do it just fine.).

---

### Post by yanom on 2011-09-25
> **dniMretsaM said:**
> The fact that you had to use the command line for this is because it was on an NTFS partition, it's a much better choice to use an ext* or other made-for-UNIX File system. 


 I can't use ext, this is a drive that has to be readable by Windows machines. I have to use NTFS because it's 500GB, too big for FAT. Basically, I just want that box to display a little more information for clueless newbies, it's a bit mystifying as-is.

---

### Post by patryk77 on 2011-09-25
> **yanom said:**
> I can't use ext, this is a drive that has to be readable by Windows machines. I have to use NTFS because it's 500GB, too big for FAT. Basically, I just want that box to display a little more information for clueless newbies, it's a bit mystifying as-is.

The best place to report such things would be Ubuntu Brainstorm.

Also, there are ext2/3 (not sure about 4) drivers for windows.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2011-09-25
This issue here has really nothing to do with whether or not a given jar file is marked as executable or not. The issue here is something called cautious-launcher which Ubuntu adds to jar execution to protect users from themselves. One can argue that it's pointless since the user ( like yourself ) will always find a way around it.

One method is the way you posted. Another way is to create your own file association that removes cautious-laucher from the command sequence:

In Xubuntu:
Right click a *.jar file > Open with other application > Use a custom command:

In the box enter: java -jar

---

### Post by yanom on 2011-09-26
> **Morbius1 said:**
> This issue here has really nothing to do with whether or not a given jar file is marked as executable or not. The issue here is something called cautious-launcher which Ubuntu adds to jar execution to protect users from themselves. One can argue that it's pointless since the user ( like yourself ) will always find a way around it.

One method is the way you posted. Another way is to create your own file association that removes cautious-laucher from the command sequence:

In Xubuntu:
Right click a *.jar file > Open with other application > Use a custom command:

In the box enter: java -jar

I know. but others don't.

---

### Post by haqking on 2011-09-26
> **yanom said:**
> I know. but others don't.

and others trash there machines all the time.

There are lots of things that dont work the same as in other OS, thats cos this it not those OS.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-09-26
Tell them to copy the file into their home folder, then mark it as executable. That's probably the easiest solution for "newbies".

---

