---
title: "11.10, hard freeze, looping audio"
date: 2012-01-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by erans on 2012-01-22
Every now and then, whenever I'm doing something like watching a movie, listening to music, or video calling, my computer will lock up and loop the second of audio or so. Nothing works and I have to hard-reset my laptop (ThinkPad T420, core i5 Sandy Bridge, 11.10). It doesn't happen when I'm not using audio. Using 3.0.0-15 kernel.

I don't even know where to begin to figure out what is causing this problem. I'm not sure what logs to check or whatever. I suspect it's audio related as it happens sometimes when I'm using Banshee, so any advice regarding how to even begin diagnosing this problem would be useful. Thanks.

---

### Post by davethewave83 on 2012-01-22
> **erans said:**
> Every now and then, whenever I'm doing something like watching a movie, listening to music, or video calling, my computer will lock up and loop the second of audio or so. Nothing works and I have to hard-reset my laptop (ThinkPad T420, core i5 Sandy Bridge, 11.10). It doesn't happen when I'm not using audio. Using 3.0.0-15 kernel.

I don't even know where to begin to figure out what is causing this problem. I'm not sure what logs to check or whatever. I suspect it's audio related as it happens sometimes when I'm using Banshee, so any advice regarding how to even begin diagnosing this problem would be useful. Thanks.

have you ruled out an overheating issue or bad ram (memtest86) ?

---

### Post by asvestomix on 2012-01-22
Seems like a hardware instability,
if you noticed that this happens more frequently when you are playing audio then maybe is wrong with the sound card.
to confirm that this is not a software problem , try to see if the system is stable with a live CD or something like that

---

### Post by erans on 2012-01-22
I'll check with memtest now. I'm not sure if it's related to overheating but I suppose it could be. Could you recommend a program to monitor temperatures?

---

### Post by asvestomix on 2012-01-22
> **erans said:**
> I'll check with memtest now. I'm not sure if it's related to overheating but I suppose it could be. Could you recommend a program to monitor temperatures?

try Xsensors , also check if your BIOS telling it by it self

---

### Post by erans on 2012-01-24
Can confirm that it is not related to audio or overheating. Just happened again with cool temps and no audio. 

How should I start checking into what caused this probleM?

---

### Post by coldjeanz on 2012-01-24
This exact thing happened to me today using Banshee where the audio looped and none of the keys would respond, not even Alt+Sysreq+REISUB. I had to hard reboot and I didn't like what was going on after, laptop was very slow to load and only now does it seem okay. However this was the first time it's happened to me so I can't say for sure if Banshee or audio playing was the cause. Will post again if it happens.

---

### Post by davethewave83 on 2012-01-26
> **erans said:**
> Can confirm that it is not related to audio or overheating. Just happened again with cool temps and no audio. 

How should I start checking into what caused this probleM?

Does it have this problem when booted into a liveCD? It could be hardware related, then again it could be software related, like your video card drivers. 

I'm still learning linux myself, so I wouldn't know the right log to check for errors. You might try /var/log/syslog or /var/log/kern.log

If you have another machine, you could debug the crashing one from the other machine.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DebuggingSystemCrash](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DebuggingSystemCrash)

if you do have another machine, try the Remote debugging section.

---

### Post by erans on 2012-01-28
Don't have another machine... happened again. The problem with this problem is that it's so sporadic--I can't recreate it easily.

---

### Post by coldjeanz on 2012-01-28
Happened as well to me again while watching a video. Done with wubi.

---

### Post by Xernie on 2012-01-29
I can confirm this. It frequently happened on an old desktop computer with an NVIDIA graphics card using 11.04 and it's happening (although less frequently) on an old Dell laptop with Intel graphics with Ubuntu 11.10.

I also have a new Thinkpad with 11.10 and have not observed this behavior.

---

