---
title: "10.10 machine freezing more and more"
date: 2010-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-11-30
I am running a 10.10 machine at my hi-fi for music.  This machine has a habit of freezing up at random intervals.  Today it has done so four times.  One of which was while playing music, but the other three was while I was looking over the logs with only Firefox and GEdit running.  When it freezes I can't even ssh into the machine (no keyboard and mouse, nothing).

I don't see anything in the logs which says "I'm the problem" but there is one error which keeps repeating (I'll paste in when I can).

Anybody have any suggestions?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-11-30
The kernal log shows many of these:

```
Serial8250: too much work for irq16
```

but I suspect that is not causing the freezing (which have now happened nine times).

Oh, and the freezing can happen at the login screen so it's not anything like Gnome-Do or Tomboy or anything else that gets started after login.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-12-01
It froze again in the middle of the night.  Can't anyone give me some path to follow?  Some debugging I can engage?  Some test I can make?

---

### Post by 0949er on 2010-12-01
some hardware could be going bad. Overheating possibly? What is the general health of all your hardware? good airflow?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2010-12-06
I'm not too convinced about the hardware as yet, though I can't necessarily reject it as a possibility.

I very thoroughly blew out this machine before building this OS and made sure everything was seated properly.  I have tried reattaching anything that was reattachable, and I removed the card-reader which was causing (rather innocuous) errors in the event logs.  I have a different video card which I can test.  I can dig around for some extra RAM and try swapping that out as a test.  I don't think this is it though.

The day I started this thread it locked up nine times in a row and then was fine for another day before freezing again.  Now it's been days since an incident (which speaks against the heat theory).

Baffled.  Tough to troubleshoot.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2011-02-20
I ran memtest over night (26 passes) and it came out with zero errors.  This pretty strongly suggests there is nothing amiss with my RAM.

I put in a different hard drive (old was SATA and new is IDE, just to mix it up) and am now running 10.04 (also for variety).

No change.  Randomly froze again.

I did find that my nvidia driver was associated irq16.  I noticed then that I was not using the most current version.  I fixed that but am still getting the too much work errors in the logs.

Any next steps?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2011-02-24
Ok, so I have made some sincere changes to locate the heart of this problem.

I put a different machine into service at that location (the machine from which I had borrowed the drive).  This machine (running 10.04) has frozen once again.  This narrows the possible culprits to four:

1) keyboard
2) mouse
3) wireless card
4) monitor

I have now swapped the keyboard and mouse (though I think I did try those before) just to eliminate them.  I don't have a spare wireless card, but next (after this machine freezes again) I will swap the monitor.  I have an old 15" LCD on a server in the basement which should work nicely (the monitor in place is an Acer P244W).

---

### Post by Alan.Brown on 2011-02-24
I have been having the same problems with freezing under Ubuntu 10.10 and openSuSE 11.3.   See thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10491887#post10491887](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10491887#post10491887).

The computer I have is new and memory and disk checks show the system is OK.

I have tried the suggestions in the above thread and can now shutdown OK.   I am waiting to see if the freezing has been cured.    The problem of system freezing and not being able to shutdown/reboot in Ubuntu may be related.

HTH

Alan

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2011-02-24
Thanks, Alan.  I'll look into that one.

It froze again (duh) and I have now swapped the monitor.  If it freezes again it's gotta be the wireless card.  Otherwise it's the monitor.  We shall see.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2011-02-24
Ok, froze again.  That's pretty definitively the wireless card.  Now I can focus my troubleshooting and solutions testing on that one device/driver.

---

### Post by P4man on 2011-02-25
Try booting with noapic and/or nolapic kernel options. See my signature for detailed instructions. ANother one you can try thats not listed there is
```
pci=routeirq
```

You may also want to check for a BIOS update.

---

### Post by timgood on 2011-02-25
Can you post the output of ```
lsmod | grep rt
```

Thanks.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2011-02-25
p4man - I'll take a look.  Thanks.

timgood - Here you go:

```
lsmod | grep rt
rt61pci                18920  0 
crc_itu_t               1371  1 rt61pci
rt2x00pci               5995  1 rt61pci
rt2x00lib              27509  2 rt61pci,rt2x00pci
led_class               2864  1 rt2x00lib
parport_pc             25962  1 
mac80211              205402  2 rt2x00pci,rt2x00lib
parport                32635  3 ppdev,lp,parport_pc
cfg80211              126528  2 rt2x00lib,mac80211
gameport                9089  2 emu10k1_gp
eeprom_93cx6            1333  1 rt61pci
agpgart                31724  2 nvidia,intel_agp
```

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2011-03-13
Anybody else like to take a crack at this one?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2011-04-05
I have another machine that has frozen a couple of times while on my wireless network, so now I am forced to suspect that the wireless router (running DD-WRT) is somehow crashing wirelessly connected Ubuntu machines (10.04 and 10.10).  Is this even possible?

P4man - I don't see how the kernel options you describe might relate here.  Can you fill me in?

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2011-07-25
I installed a new router running ddwrt.  The problem has pretty much vanished.  For what it's worth...

---

