---
title: "severe compiz problem"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-01-11
ok i spent HOURS trying to figure out what was wrong with this, i'll tell you what happened from the beginning *(you don't have to read, but it might help clue you in some details) so skip down to the facts if you don't care:*

**i have an integrated geforce 6100.**

for a while, maybe 2 or 3 months, i've noticed that compiz doesn't start up ONLY if i have a disc in at least one of my 2 optical drives.  if nothing is in them, compiz starts up with no problem.  once in a while compiz will start up even if the disc was in there anyway - its really confusing and i could never figure out why it did that.

anyways today, i got fed up with it and wanted to look up how to stop it.  i saw this post on these forums saying something about how you have to add a virtual monitor in xorg.conf, so i followed the exact same thing, rebooted, and encountered that terribly designed program thats supposed to debug your video problems when xorg is misconfigured.  so i was messing around with the utility to see what could possibly get me back to my desktop, but apparently it destroyed my entire xorg.conf.  i lost all 3d support and i could only have 800x600 for a resolution.

**FACTS ABOUT THE PROBLEM**
i later tried reinstalling the video drivers - the nvidia 173, 177 and 180 drivers.  none of those helped (i'm currently at 180, since it is supported).  i tried the nvidia-settings and that helped recover most of my config.  at this moment, 3d DOES work.  my resolution is fine, only compiz is refusing to start.

i thought maybe the problem was metacity just simply won't stay closed, so i ran "compiz --replace" which results with:
```

**Checking for Xgl: not present. **
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Comparing resolution (1152x864) to maximum 3D texture size (4096): Passed.
**Checking for Software Rasterizer: Not present. **
Checking for nVidia: present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
**Checking for Xgl: not present. **

```

i bolded what i noticed was not working.  i'm not exactly sure what a "software rasterizer" is but after looking up some stuff, i found out that i do have SOMETHING using "glxinfo | grep OpenGL"
```

OpenGL vendor string: NVIDIA Corporation
**OpenGL renderer string: GeForce 6100/PCI/SSE2/3DNOW!**
OpenGL version string: 2.1.2 NVIDIA 180.11
OpenGL shading language version string: 1.20 NVIDIA via Cg compiler
OpenGL extensions:

```

So whats the deal?  Why won't compiz start at all?  I can't even do the simple effects that are built-in with ubuntu.  it just searches for the drivers, which are already installed, and then it triggers the effects on but does nothing at all.  if i re-open appearance proporties, its set back to "none" under the special effects tab.

my xorg.conf is:
```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Tue Nov  4 14:07:17 PST 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6100"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "1152x864_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```


sorry about the long post, i just feel its best to include all information to save everybody time.  and yes, i have tried reinstalling compiz as well as delete the ~/.compiz and the ~./config/compiz folder (i made backups, i spent a lot of time on my configuration)

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-01-11
ok um... i have no idea how... but i purged all of compiz's stuff, reinstall all of them but included emerald, bcop, and the simple config manager, and when i clicked on "custom" under "appearance preferences", it failed like it usually did.  then i clicked on the "preferences" button next to it, and the config window for it just closed.  linux seems to do that often so i figured i'd just try again.  it kept closing, so i figured i'd just check off custom (it lets me do it even though nothing happens) and for some reason, it works!

seriously, this is a TERRIBLE glitch, i just lost like 3 hours of perfecting my desktop because compiz just wants to decide when it wants to work.  i'm not happy about this, and i'm not really going to complain about free software but something should be done about this.  i noticed i'm not the only one who has a valid driver and couldn't get compiz to work.  it just doesn't work for absolutely no reason.  very annoying

---

### Post by uberbuntufan64y on 2009-01-11
Try swapping out your card with a Radeon, mine always auto detect and the compiz works great!

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-01-11
haha thats probably the first time i ever heard anyone ever recommend radeon for compiz.  radeonHD is usually pretty good but the old radeons weren't really well supported.

so i did manage to get compiz to work again but would you happen to know why it just decides to start up and sometimes decides it won't?  it makes no sense to me.  i can tell it to run several times in a row and eventually it just "gives in"

---

