---
title: "8.10/9.04 loud beep on shutdown"
date: 2009-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Stargazer989 on 2009-05-13
Everytime i shutdown there's a very loud beep that's obviously from the speakers. any ideas?

---

### Post by banana jama on 2009-05-13
I'm posting to say i also experience this.

---

### Post by raymondh on 2009-05-13
hope this helps

[http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/07/26/turning-off-the-system-hardware-beep-linux-tutorial/](http://ubuntu-tutorials.com/2007/07/26/turning-off-the-system-hardware-beep-linux-tutorial/)

Good luck

---

### Post by raymondh on 2009-05-13
try this too

~/.inputrc 

set bell-style none

---

### Post by Stargazer989 on 2009-05-13
@[raymondhenson]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=769495"): is that a command of some sort? (explain a little, please)(your second post is what i am referring to)

...

that original link brought me to a post of how to disable(in a way) my speakers... that'd be troublesome since i like to watch movies and whatnot.

---

### Post by raymondh on 2009-05-13
> **Stargazer989 said:**
> @[raymondhenson]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=769495"): is that a command of some sort? (explain a little, please)(your second post is what i am referring to)

Apologies, stargazer ... I should'nt have posted that.  I thought about editing those files (bash,etc) found at that link but decided not to... so I should not have posted that :redface:  The idea there was to go to home folder, create a file .inputrc, add set-bell style none to eliminate the beep.

In the meantime, i have alerts turned off thru system > preference > sounds.  I, however, would like to have an alert (specially on start-up) to tell me of problems so ...

...let me tinker (maybe try to lower the alert volumn and play with setterm blenght)and post back results.

Sorry again.

---

