---
title: "10.10 huge problems!!!"
date: 2010-11-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2010-11-10
So I installed the Ubuntu 10.10 today, all went well, a fine and neat installation, everything worked out of the box and then I made the updates and restarted.

Now I have over 10 attempts to login and after typing password, it starts to load session, shows wallpaper and then loops back to log in screen.

Only once I have managed to get in and the gnome-panels were gone.

What is going on? How do I fix this? 
And just in case, the CD is an original one, so can't be problems with the burning method...

Another thing I had forgotten, when I restart or shutdown, there's a kernel crash where the num lock and caps lock leds remains blinking and I have to hard shutdown.

---

### Post by Foxheadz on 2010-11-10
Maybe you should try reinstalling it?

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2010-11-10
I'm on it already, but why should I if nothing went wrong the first time? I'm not that new to Linux.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2010-11-10
Ok, so I reinstalled and still face the same problem! After restart, it loops back to login screen. I even changed the log in option to automatically log in without any password and there is the log in screen and after typing password, shows the wallpaper and back to log in screen!

How do I fix this?

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2010-11-11
Please! Help! I need to get that computer back! Now it's totally useless :confused::confused::confused:

---

### Post by Foxheadz on 2010-11-11
Hmm im guessing hardware incompatibility or maybe the disc your using for the install has a problem

---

### Post by yuki-nagato on 2010-11-11
there's probably something wrong with either the desktop environment or xorg.  the last time my install did that it was because a few of the dependencies were screwed.  *check the disk for errors or burn a new cd => my advice

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2010-11-11
> **arashiko28 said:**
> Please! Help! I need to get that computer back! Now it's totally useless :confused::confused::confused:

Reinstall 10.04

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2010-11-11
Use a LiveCD to go to the hard drive and find the home folder (the one with username). Then hit Ctr + H to show the hidden files (everything starting with .something). Then delete all the hidden files and try to login again (maybe leave the .bashrc .bash_profile .bash_history and .bash_logout).

If it complains about permissions and it wouldn't delete the files, then go to Apps -> Accessories -> Terminal and type:
```
 gksudo nautilus 
```
Be very careful with the file manager that opens, this one can really delete anything.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2010-11-13
> **3Miro said:**
> Use a LiveCD to go to the hard drive and find the home folder (the one with username). Then hit Ctr + H to show the hidden files (everything starting with .something). Then delete all the hidden files and try to login again (maybe leave the .bashrc .bash_profile .bash_history and .bash_logout).

If it complains about permissions and it wouldn't delete the files, then go to Apps -> Accessories -> Terminal and type:
```
 gksudo nautilus 
```
Be very careful with the file manager that opens, this one can really delete anything.

The problem still remains, on the previous version, I had a some problems with an error showing on boot about terminal command no recognized, and when logged in, I had to alt+F2 to open terminal and kill gnome-panels in order to show them. :s

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2010-11-13
Is there a way to change the log in settings while on live CD? So that it goes without login screen?

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2010-11-14
Once you have it installed you can "auto-login" by going to the "System->Administration->Login Screen" and choosing which user you want to login automatically.

---

### Post by arashiko28 on 2010-11-20
I fixed it, sadly I had to install again, but this time, Lubuntu, seems to be Ubuntu 10 and forth are too much for an old Dell optiplex-150. Ever since running Lubuntu problems disappeared.

Thanks a lot for all your responses, this is what really makes Ubuntu a great system!

---

