---
title: "Running Internet Explorer in Ubuntu"
date: 2006-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JustDon on 2006-10-11
Hi all, I installed IE6 on top of Ubuntu 6.06 (with WINE) using the procedure located at: 

[http://www.tatanka.com.br/ies4linux/page/Main_Page](http://www.tatanka.com.br/ies4linux/page/Main_Page) 

I MUST have IE for my work due to an "IE Only" site that I must use constantly for doing insurance quotes and policy maintenance for clients. I have IE up and running on Ubuntu just fine. I can quote, post payments, etc. 

However, _I have an issue_ with a couple of things: 

1. Each time I navigate to a new page I get a dialog box that pops up and tells me that "my current security settings prevent ActiveX from running so pages may not appear correctly" I click OK and then the page looks fine to me.
2. When I try to print an "insurance ID card" for car insurance for a client I have a drop down menu where I select "Print ID Card" - GO - and then a new window opens with an Adobe Acrobat file for me to print. I downloaded Adobe and it works fine BUT I get an option to open or save the pdf file. If I click open - nothing happens at all. If I click save to desktop - I get a crazy file that I can not open with anything. Any idea why Adobe would not function properly in this instance?

---

### Post by JustDon on 2006-10-12
Might I need to download Adobe for Windows with Wine in order for the popup pdf to function properly given the popup window is generated by IE6? If so, does anyone know where to find a procedure for doing this, I cant seem to find anything detailed enough to allow for my newbieness, actually nothing very descriptive at all.

---

### Post by jethro10 on 2006-10-13
> **JustDon said:**
> Might I need to download Adobe for Windows with Wine in order for the popup pdf to function properly given the popup window is generated by IE6? If so, does anyone know where to find a procedure for doing this, I cant seem to find anything detailed enough to allow for my newbieness, actually nothing very descriptive at all.

Not totally sure on your specific problem, but yes. Any program to work withing IE on wine, needs to be installed to that IE.

J

---

### Post by bobmct on 2006-10-13
Other than browswer id detection is there anything specific that site is looking for?  The reason I ask is that I too have such sites.  But by using the UserAgent Switcher extension in firefox I am able to access them perfectly.  Might help you, too!

B

---

### Post by JustDon on 2006-10-14
> **bobmct said:**
> Other than browswer id detection is there anything specific that site is looking for?  The reason I ask is that I too have such sites.  But by using the UserAgent Switcher extension in firefox I am able to access them perfectly.  Might help you, too!B

Thanks but User Agent Switcher does not work. This site is actually looking for IE6 AND Windows 98 or newer. Kinda chaps me that they do this kind of stuff but nothing I can do about it and I absolutely must use the site for my job. Everything works fine running IE6 with Linux (on Wine) except the "new window" pdf file that pop up for me to print customer documents. I have Adobe Acrobat for Linux and I think the first reply basically confirms that I must install Adobe for Windows in Wine, which sounds great but I don't know how to do it and cannot find much on working with Wine online.

---

### Post by JustDon on 2006-10-21
Does anyone know of a good reference procedure for installing Adobe Acrobat (for Windows) into Wine?

---

### Post by Razgrize on 2006-10-21
There is an addon for Mozilla Firefox that installs the Internet Explorer partitions. Then you may open a tab ot page in 'IE View'.

---

### Post by JustDon on 2006-10-21
The site that I have to access for my business is an IE ONLY site, I cannot access it with Firefox. I can ONLY access the site in Linux using Wine and IE6. The ONLY problem I have at this point is printing proof of insurance, customer receipts for payments, etc. These "open in a new window" in a pdf file for printing. When running IE6 in Wine they do not open. They are in an ".asp" format which open in Adobe Acrobat when I am in XP and IE6 or IE7 and they open flawlessly. In Linux and IE6 - "not happenin".

I think I definitely need to find a way to integrate Adobe for Windows into Wine, so that the file association between IE6 and Adobe will open these "customer documents" and therein lies my problem. I can NOTHING on the web about integrating Adobe (for Windows) into Wine.

---

### Post by JustDon on 2006-11-10
Solved this entire issue with VMWare. Way cool. Now I can run Ubuntu and Windows at the same time. I use Ubuntu for everything except doing a small part of my job and use Windows for that little bit. Highly recommended for those who MUST have Windows for something.

---

### Post by Tobster on 2006-11-10
I am very much into the open source movement and a fan of this forum.  But to be honest for business use, when it really matters I would use Canonical Ltd which is a for profit business to offer business support for those using Ubuntu.

You can find out more on the Ubuntu home page

---

