---
title: "11.04 annoyances (on Dell Latitude D620)"
date: 2011-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mexp on 2011-05-31
I've been mostly happy full-time Ubuntu-user since 8.04 on this same old laptop, and I remember I finally made the shift from Windows when resuming from Standby was properly working without geeky workarounds. Now I must say that I'm a little disappointed of 11.04 release (with Unity 2D desktop), as there are a few annoyances that came along with the upgrade. Thought to share these:


[LIST]
[*]Bluetooth doesn't start automatically when the computer is turned on. I need to disable BT, then enable, and sometimes use the computer hardware disable to get it working. (Pic: [http://postimage.org/image/flemfohw/](http://postimage.org/image/flemfohw/))
[*]LibreOffice Calc shows the Close-button only on the right side, no Minimize/Maximize AND sometimes there's not even the Close button on the right side. (Pic: [http://postimage.org/image/flg9z0zo/](http://postimage.org/image/flg9z0zo/))
[*]Dock applets - I would like to add CPU/GPU monitor which starts at start-up. I installed System Monitor Indicator, but without tinkering it won't start automatically. I would like to add the Shut Down -button to the Dock, not the default one but that which opens the dialogue with options to Shut Down, Restart, Standby or Hibernate. I find it easier to use.
[*]From the Additional Drivers it's impossible to say if Nvidia driver is active or not. (Pic: [http://postimage.org/image/flcywc04/](http://postimage.org/image/flcywc04/))
[*]Launcher on the left not shown until I go to top-left corner, despite of the setting.
[*]I think the System Settings -menu is in a wrong place!
[/LIST]

Perhaps these are related to Unity 2D only. I would like to use Unity, as it seems more responsive on this hardware, but these small annoyances make me think switching back to Gnome Desktop. I would appreciate workarounds to these issues, if you have in your mind!

---

### Post by mexp on 2011-07-15
Actually now, after some more weeks of using Unity 2D, I quite like it and it's working well. The only thing that really bugs me is the Bluetooth, for that I would like to get help. 

When I turn the computer on, the indicator says Bluetooth is turned on but the icon is grey and Bluetooth is not working. In order to get it working, I need to turn BT off from the indicator menu, and then turn it back on again. I tried the Blueman application, but that didn't work at all.

Any ideas how to fix this?

---

### Post by kingtz on 2011-07-22
> **mexp said:**
> I've been mostly happy full-time Ubuntu-user since 8.04 on this same old laptop, and I remember I finally made the shift from Windows when resuming from Standby was properly working without geeky workarounds. Now I must say that I'm a little disappointed of 11.04 release (with Unity 2D desktop), as there are a few annoyances that came along with the upgrade. Thought to share these:


[LIST]

[*]Dock applets - I would like to add CPU/GPU monitor which starts at start-up. I installed System Monitor Indicator, but without tinkering it won't start automatically. I would like to add the Shut Down -button to the Dock, not the default one but that which opens the dialogue with options to Shut Down, Restart, Standby or Hibernate. I find it easier to use.

[/LIST]


I'm a new user (day 5 today), too, and I was wondering how you worked around getting the System Monitor Indicator to start up at boot?

---

