---
title: "[15.04] Sound in headphones sometimes work, sometimes not"
date: 2016-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Finarfin on 2016-09-15
Hi,

I'm posting this as I have permanent issue with sound in my headphones connected to my HP EliteBook Folio 9480m. Actually problem is visible when I'm connecting my headphones via jack to laptop directly or when I'm connecting this to dockstation.

I went through that topic: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/1470730](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-driver/+bug/1470730) and after playing with **hdajackretask** tool it solved the issue, BUT not permanently. Even if I saved working configuration to boot, after reboot sometimes happened that it doesn't work at all! I need additional restart and then, after several play with hdajackretask it's working again. But I would like to solve it at all to not waste a time with every reboot. 

To my /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf I've added such lines:
```
46 #Keep snd-pcsp from being loaded as first soundcard                                                                                                                                                      
 47 options snd-pcsp index=-2                                                                                                                                                                                
 48 alias snd-card-0 snd-hda-intel                                                                                                                                                                           
 49 alias sound-slot-0 snd-hda-intel                                                                                                                                                                         
 50 options snd-hda-intel model=headset-mic   
```

Here is a listing from aplay -l:
```
**** List of PLAYBACK Hardware Devices ****
card 0: HDMI [HDA Intel HDMI], device 3: HDMI 0 [HDMI 0]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 0: HDMI [HDA Intel HDMI], device 7: HDMI 1 [HDMI 1]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0
card 1: PCH [HDA Intel PCH], device 0: ALC3228 Analog [ALC3228 Analog]
  Subdevices: 1/1
  Subdevice #0: subdevice #0

```

Actually I'm not sure if that Intel Haswell HDMI is not leading to that troubles as it's recognized as a first card, cause I have:
```
cat /proc/asound/card*/codec* | grep Codec
Codec: Intel Haswell HDMI
Codec: Realtek ALC3228

```

But that just my doubts, I don't have for this any explanation instead of this that order is different that I've expected.

Working solution is just to use via hdajackretask pins 0x18 when it's connected directly to laptop or pin 0x1a when it's connected to dock station. But sometimes after reboot it doesn't solve the problem and then I need additional reboot.

If you have any clue how to solve it I will really appreciate.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-09-15
Sorry, can't help much with an unsupported release, but I can inform you that 15.10 is an unsupported release. :)

Suggest you upgrade to a supported one and see if you have the same issues. Incidentally, easiest way to start troubleshooting is with Pulse Audio Volume Control before getting elbow deep in the terminal. You may have simple setting wrong there and it's very easy to change devices and ports, etc. with PAVControl. It's in the repos.

---

### Post by Finarfin on 2016-09-20
The problem is that after turning on PC ALL THE TIME I have a problem that sounds in headphones is not working...then I'm simply rebooting and it works again. Magic?! I don't like such kind of magic...

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-09-20
Unfortunate as you'll encounter more new magic tricks the longer the operating system goes with out an update/upgrade, particularly without security updates (and that can be black magic).

I suggested looking around in Pulse Audio Volume Control. You didn't respond to that, or the fact that your release is no longer supported, i.e. dead, so I'll presume it was no help. 

The only other advice I can give [is this]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EOLUpgrades") and to wish you good luck. ;)

PS: You may not be getting much help because of the fact that your release is EOL. It is not officially supported by Canonical anymore so consequently, here either. It is up to individual users whether they wish to help with a dead release, of course, but things get old quickly, things change from release to release, and people forget from one to the next.

---

