---
title: "11.04 LTS 64bit - flash is not working/ won't install correclty."
date: 2011-06-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mothergoose729 on 2011-06-10
I am using the distro in the title and version, and I can't get flash to work properly either in konquer, or in chromium. I have looked in the package manager and it says flash has been installed. I tried again to install it through the terminal, it downloads a bit, and then it says that is installed as well. I know chrome in particular is supposed to come with flash built in so this is frustrating. How do I install flash and get it working? Never had this problem before. Thanks. 

Btw did a few searches on google and on these forums.. couldn't find what I was looking for.

---

### Post by flipper T on 2011-06-10
2 questions first

1 11.04 LTS does not exist. there is 10.04 LTS and 11.04, which are you using ?

2 chrome & chromium are not the same. which are you using ?


easiest fix for your problem is to install firefox & then install the flash-aid add on in firefox

run this add on & it should fix yur problem in all browsers

---

### Post by mothergoose729 on 2011-06-10
Thanks flipper, apparently I needed to install flash aid for firefox to get flash working at all in any browser. Weird but I am happy that it is fixed. My problem is solved, for anyone who runs into the same problem of flash not working despite any other method, download and install firefox, download this plugin, and run the wizard from the icon that will appear in the upper right hand corner next to the address bar:

[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/)

This worked for me on kubuntu 11.04, using chromium 12 web browser and firefox 4.01 web browsers. Thanks again.

---

### Post by flipper T on 2011-06-10
no problem

ps flash can crash & become corrupted

if this happens, just run the flash-aid add on again

---

### Post by Teasdale on 2011-06-12
Yay! I have Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit and, after working fine for six weeks, my flash player suddenly stopped working and said I needed to update my player, but when I tried to update, it kept saying I already had the latest version. I added-on Flash-Aid and everything seems to be working fine now. 

Thank you! :-)

---

