---
title: "17.10 upgrade, worked at first, hanging on reboot, GPU?"
date: 2017-11-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by john_ladasky on 2017-11-10
Hello everyone.

I posted this article in the Installation and Upgrades forum 24 hours ago.  As of now, no one has read it, so I'm copying it here.  This forum appears to be more active, and there are various 17.10 issues being addressed here.  Apologies if I'm in the wrong place.

I upgraded my home computer to 17.10 about a week ago, and it has been pretty good so far. I have a fairly recent Gigabyte motherboard and an NVidia GPU. My system is configured in dual-boot mode with Windows 10.  I am using the proprietary GPU driver, apparently without problems. I was impressed that I didn't have to go down the GRUB "nomodeset" rabbit hole that I have often experienced when setting up Ubuntu systems with NVidia hardware. I always forget the details, and have to return to Ubuntu Forums to re-educate myself.

So, I was confident that I would be able to upgrade my work computer, which has a very similar hardware configuration, and also has a Windows 10 boot option. I installed 17.10 at work two days ago, then I installed the NVidia GPU driver and my usual software stack. Everything seemed to function. I walked away that evening without watching the computer shut down. I don't know whether I missed anything important.

Since then, I can't reboot into 17.10. I was able to boot into Windows 10, which is how I am using the computer for now.  I only boot into Win10 when I must.  I didn't boot into Win10 between boots of 17.10, so I don't think that Win10 hibernation or fast boot mode are causing me trouble.  I disabled those Win10 features months ago and have not changed them back.

When booting into 17.10, the system gets stuck with the following text on my screen:

```
Linux: recovering journal
Linux: clean, 517735/5242880 files, 3186267/20971435 blocks
[ OK ] Started Network Name Resolution
[ OK ] Started Hostname Service.
[ OK ] Reached target Host and Network Name Lookups.
[ OK ] Created slice User Slice of gdm.
       Starting User Manager for UID 121...
[ OK ] Started Session c1 of user gdm.
[ OK ] Started User Manager for UID 121.
       Stopping NVIDIA Persistence Daemon...
       Stopping User Manager for UID 121...
[ OK ] Stopped NVIDIA Persistence Daemon.
[ OK ] Started Tool to automatically collect and submit kernel crash signatures.
```

The screen flickers every 5-20 seconds, and my hard drive access light blinks once in a while. But I am not progressing to a login screen.

All right, is this the 2017 version of the mysterious blank aubergine screen that one used to get when trying to use NVidia hardware drivers? Or is is something else?

Your advice and guidance is greatly appreciated, thanks!

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2017-11-10
NVIDIA Drivers are very problematic on 17.10>>>Waylnd session.
Try removing the Nvidia Driver in recovery mode. Or through a TTY 2 or TTY 3
If you need the Nvidia driver then disable the Wayland session and use Gnome X11  .
To disable the wayland session:
```
sudo nano /etc/gdm3 custom.conf 
```
So it looks like this:
```
WaylandEnable=false
```
So no "#" in front.
Good Luck :)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-11-11
And don't assume from the view count that you may have seen against the listing of that post that no-one has seen it or read it; view counts are currently not working correctly and always show a figure of the number of replies +1, so totally useless, I'm afraid.

It is probably that no other users know what to say that will help you best, but fo0llow what [COLOR="#FF0000"]1fallen[/COLOR] has said and you may get some better performance from your machine.

---

