---
title: "8.04 Install on usb stick"
date: 2008-06-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2008-06-23
I am following the tutorial on installing the Ubuntu 8.04 onto a usb stick. Everything goes well until I come to the part that reads :
> Once started, open up a terminal. In the terminal type: sudo -i. Change directories to /media/boot/grub. This will take you to the /boot/grub directory on the usb device. Open menu.lst
And there is where I have my problem. How do I open the file "menu.lst on the usb stick?

What I have displayed on the terminal is:
> root@ubuntu:/media/disk/boot/grub# 


Thank you

---

### Post by sea_monkey987 on 2008-06-23
type in vim /path/to/menu.lst
note: you may need precede vim with sudo to edit the file if you are not in sudo -i.

vim is just a terminal based text editor.  another is nano -> nano /path/to/menu.lst.  If you have access to the desktop environment, you can use gedit, which is GUI based plain text editor.

P.S.: I suggest nano if you aren't familiar with vim since it is easier to use initially.  In nano, the ^ before the commands means you need to hold down Ctrl.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2008-06-24
Thank you for the reply, sea_monkey987.

I am in sudo -i. I have accessed the menu.lst. I have changed those things I needed to change. I successfully saved those changes. No problem there.

The final change involves altering the device.map file. This is where I am hung up. I can not get the change and save it. I continuously receive the "You don't own this file".
Now this file is in the grub folder, th same as the "menu.lst" file. I can alter the menu.lst but not the device.map. 
That is my problem.

---

### Post by sea_monkey987 on 2008-07-01
> **thelugnut said:**
> Thank you for the reply, sea_monkey987.

I am in sudo -i. I have accessed the menu.lst. I have changed those things I needed to change. I successfully saved those changes. No problem there.

The final change involves altering the device.map file. This is where I am hung up. I can not get the change and save it. I continuously receive the "You don't own this file".
Now this file is in the grub folder, th same as the "menu.lst" file. I can alter the menu.lst but not the device.map. 
That is my problem.
And this is all while you're root?  (i.e. in sudo -i)
Can you post the results of running
```
ls -l /path/to/device.map
```
That will tell us the file permissions of device.map.  Although, it shouldn't matter since root can do anything.
I'm not familiar with installing ubuntu onto a flash drive.  Can you point me to the tutorial that you are using to see if I can be of more help?

BTW, you know you really shouldn't be in sudo -i unless you really need to be.  It's dangerous if your finger slips on the keyboard since you have unrestricted access to the system.  It is better to append sudo to the beginning of every command that needs root privileges.

---

