---
title: "8.04, Removing the abality to mount a partition?"
date: 2008-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wkulecz on 2008-05-30
I have a NTFS Windows partition.  The installer set things up so it has an icon in Nautilus and Places menu which mount it read-only when clicked.  I installed NTFS manager tool and made access RW which seems to work OK.

But now I'd like a virtualbox VM to boot the partition so I'd like to disable the Linux mounting of it.

How can I remove the icons from Places, Nautilus, etc. and have this persist across reboots?

--wally.

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2008-05-30
Is there an entry for this partition in the /etc/fstab file? If yes, see the last non-numeric entry (last 2 should be numeric). If it is "defaults", change it to noauto. If it is anything else or a comma separated list of words, add a comma and noauto i.e. append ",noauto".

If you have trouble following the above steps, post the contents of the file /etc/fstab

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2008-06-03
There is no mention of it in /etc/fstab.  Its using the "automagic" system.  When I click the icon to mount it, a line for it appears in /etc/mtab which then dissapears when I unmount it.

I can't find any docs on the automagic mounting to figure out what to change.

--wally.

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2008-06-03
Then add the entry with noauto. That should take care of automounting.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2008-06-03
But I want to remove the icons from Places etc. menus so it can't get mounted.  I plan to "boot" it with virtual box and mounting it while in use by vbox will practically insure data corruption according to the vbox docs.

--wally.

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2008-06-03
Adding the entry with noauto will **NOT** mount it unless you specifically ask it to mount. You will not specifically ask it to mount, right?

When I said *That should take care of automounting*, I meant it will not automount without your express permissions now.

VirtualBox will be able to play with the device without it being mounted on the host machine as the device node is available, and should be writable by it.

EDIT : I don't know about the icon in places menu, and it does not matter in the least. It is just a cosmetic, for your pleasure. Entry in the Places menu may or may not be removed by this setting, but the disk will not be mounted.

---

### Post by wkulecz on 2008-06-03
> Adding the entry with noauto will NOT mount it unless you specifically ask it to mount. You will not specifically ask it to mount, right?

That's the issue, the Places menu contains an easy way for a user to ask to mount it by clicking it in any Gnome browse dialog.

If it was only me using the system I'd know enough not to mount it when Vbox has booted it, although a mis-click of the mouse in the Places menu could happen to anyone eventually.

--wally.

---

### Post by bingoUV on 2008-06-03
In /etc/rc.local file, make your user the owner of the device node /dev/<whatever>.
```

chown <username>:<username> /dev/<whatever>

```

Now, in /etc/fstab file, add the option owner in addition to noauto. This will make only user <username> able to mount the device, even by mistake.

---

