---
title: "Can't Modify xorg.conf"
date: 2008-04-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Crowchild on 2008-04-03
I've checked out a few of the other threads tied to problems with xorg.conf but everyone seems to assume that it can be modified. I on the other hand can't!?! The slightest modification seems to make the whole thing go amok. Regardless of what is changed in the file I usually end up with my resolution changing to 640X480.

    First I had been trying to set up dual monitors and then change the settings for the touchpad on my XPS 1330. Each time I've been totally thwarted...

Any suggestion would be greatly appreciated. I am not a complete newbie but pretty close, so the plainer the explanation the better.

Thank you.

---

### Post by Irony on 2008-04-03
Paste the contents of your file which is at;

```
/etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

To actually open it as root type in terminal;

```
gksudo gedit/etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Crowchild on 2008-04-03
Hmmm..... This hasn't happened and may or may not be related to another bug that I am experiencing. This is what I get in terminal when trying to do that:

adam@dell-desktop:~$ gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
/home/adam/.themes/Darker theme/gtk-2.0/gtkrc:50: Clearlooks configuration option "menuitemstyle" is not supported and will be ignored.
/home/adam/.themes/Darker theme/gtk-2.0/gtkrc:51: Clearlooks configuration option "listviewitemstyle" is not supported and will be ignored.
/home/adam/.themes/Darker theme/gtk-2.0/gtkrc:52: Clearlooks configuration option "progressbarstyle" is not supported and will be ignored.

Then in gedit:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Wed Sep 12 14:29:35 PDT 2007

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Generic Video Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Generic Video Card"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Irony on 2008-04-03
Your themes error message is presumably related to you having clearlooks as a theme - try changing themes.

Make a back up of your xorg file;

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
```

Then I guess you would add the following to your Screen section, so do;

```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Then replace your current screen section with;

```
Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Generic Video Card"
Monitor "Generic Monitor"
DefaultDepth 24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024"	"1152x864"	"1024x768"	"800x600"	"720x400"	"640x480"
Depth 24
Modes "nvidia-auto-select"
EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Note put your own actual resolution somewhere in the line. Then reboot and;

```
System > Preferences > Screen Resolution
```

I'm assuming that your have already looked there to determine that your needed resolution is not there.

If that doesn't work you may have to investigate;

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

---

### Post by Crowchild on 2008-04-03
So that worked, kind of anyways. For the first time I've edited xorg.conf without everything going wacky (usually GUI failure or resolution being set 640X480). But now I can keep it set at my preferred resolution. I can change but as soon as I restart it goes back a resolution that is a little fuzzy.

Concurrently, and buoyed by my initial success I retried modifying xorg.conf in the touchpad section re:[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271052&highlight=disable+touchpad+while+typing](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=271052&highlight=disable+touchpad+while+typing).

Result = Resolution 640X480!?! 

I don't get why a slight change in a subsection buggers the whole thing!

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2008-04-03
Since you are using an nvidia card, I would suggest using **nvidia-settings** to change your settings instead of altering xorg.conf.  If you can't find it in Applications->System Tools or System->Administration, just open a terminal and type
```
gksu nvidia-settings
```

It seems like this way is more successful at getting things to work.

---

### Post by Crowchild on 2008-04-03
Okay so I think I have that working but still the question remains as to why modifying any part of xorg.conf messes with the resolution settings. For example I would like at change the functionality of the trackpad but when I try to add: Option "SHMConfig" "on" in the section:

Section "InputDevice"
Identifier "Synaptics Touchpad"

It screws everything up again.



Any clues?

---

