---
title: "12.04.3: Cannot login normally after upgrade to ATI proprietary gfx drivers."
date: 2013-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Krovas on 2013-12-30
After upgrading to the (distinctly more efficient) ATI/AMD Proprietary FGLRX graphics drivers that apply to my HP laptop, I can't go through the normal boot routine. I may or may not get the GRUB menu without left-shift, but if I choose the normal boot option, my machine invariably hangs with a blank screen. I have to boot into recovery mode, then I can resume normal a normal boot. Please advise. Thank you.

---

### Post by Krovas on 2013-12-31
*bump*

Please help, I need a clue.

P.S: the Boot-Repair distro did not help.

---

### Post by Krovas on 2014-01-01
Okay, I've narrowed this down to probable unsupported video resolutions, however, I can't seem to access the tool needed to determine what my supported boot-time video drivers my machine will support: vbeinfo. I hit 'c' to get the command line in grub, but vbeinfo just isn't there. So at the moment, I'm kinda stuck...again.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-01-01
Krovas; Hi !

Try this:
Boot to recovery mode -> "with networking" ->"resume normal boot" -> Desk top -> "Additional Drivers" :
See if you can then change the graphics driver. 

[INDENT][INDENT]my little bit to help
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Krovas on 2014-01-01
Actually, I ended up downloading [Grub-Customizer]("https://launchpad.net/grub-customizer"), and started tweaking settings. Eventually, I commented out the...

```

gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode

```

...line in standard boot menu entry, which I thought perhaps would allow the text-mode boot that seemed to work so well during recovery boots, but which, ironically, ended up fixing the graphical mode to normal. I don't understand it yet, but I'll take it.

Posted for whatever anybody might end up thinking it's worth.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-01-01
Krovas; Great !

Glad it is all sorted out. That line is by default commented out, one may change it to a "supported" resolution if required.

[INDENT][INDENT]just keep on keep'n on
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

