---
title: "16.04LTS / Vista Booting into grub rescue after swapping HD into different PC"
date: 2018-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mpvsuper on 2018-02-03
I have an 11-year-old HP Compaq nw8440 mobile workstation that I primarily use for Ubuntu and anytime I have to run a 16-bit windows app.  I recently acquired a 2nd HP Compaq nw8440 workstation that is almost identical in specifications.  The only difference are:
CPU: 2nd one has Core 2 Duo T7600; 1st one has a Core Duo T2600.
Optical Drive: 2nd one does NOT feature LightScribe; the 1st one does.
Fingerprint reader:  The 2nd has one, the 1st one does NOT have one.
Wireless card:  The 2nd one has an Intel a/b/g card; the 1st one has a Broadcom a/b/g card
RAM: Th 2nd one has 2GB RAM; the 1st one has 4GB RAM
BIOS:  The 2nd one is running HP BIOS 1.37; the 1st one has HP BIOS 1.39.

The HD is a 500GB unit with a dual-boot setup of Ubuntu 16.04 LTS and Windows Vista Ultimate 32-bit.  When I swap the HD from the 1st unit into the 2nd unit, It will not boot.  I get:
"error: No such partition
entering rescue mode...
grub rescue>"

However, the HD loads the GRUB menu perfectly in the 1st unit.  I know it's not the SATA connector on the 2nd unit, as I was able to boot off an ancient 100GB unit just fine.  

I tried to run boot-repair from the Ubuntu 16.04 LTS CD, and I got a dialog stating "FlexNet detected.  You should backup your data before continuing".  I chose cancel, and it generated the following pastebin report:
[https://paste.ubuntu.com/26515867/](https://paste.ubuntu.com/26515867/)

Is GRUB looking for a unique CPU ID (Core 2 Duo vs Core Duo)?  Or is it something with "FlexNet"

Thanks

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-02-04
Should be neither.
Normally if hardware similar, Ubuntu just boots. 
But going from 2GB to 1GB may make system very slow if full Ubuntu.
Lightweight versions are recommened as full Ubuntu is more for newer systems.
       Light weight flavors
Lubuntu, xubuntu, Ubuntu mate, Budgie
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuFlavors](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UbuntuFlavors)

When Ubuntu converted to grub2 in 2009, it was a lot larger than grub, now grub legacy. And a lot of grub2 (core.img) is in sectors just after MBR.
Windows proprietary software may use Flexnet to hide a serial number and it uses the sectors just after the MBR. 
So they overwrote each other.  And Windows/Flexnet was not willing to work with Linux, so grub2 was modified to find flexnet and write around the sectors it uses.
So flexnet should not be an issue.

So let Boot-Repair reinstall grub to MBR, just to see if that was issue.
 
I do not expect Vista to work as it is linked to specific hardware. 
And you should not be using Vista anyway as it has expired.

---

### Post by mpvsuper on 2018-02-10
I was actually going from 4GB to 2GB, but I already swapped the RAM so that I now have 4GB of RAM.

At this point, I'm not too concerned about losing my data, as I have a much newer laptop that I use for Windows, and all of my Linux data is backed up.  I was using the old laptop primarily for Ubuntu, anyway.  I'll go ahead and run boot-repair and choose "continue" when I get to the FlexNet prompt.  I'm almost certain that I don't have any programs on my Vista partition that would use FlexNet.  I will keep you posted.

---

