---
title: "9.04 Crashing, Can't setup wireless.. HELP :("
date: 2009-10-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Silence9 on 2009-10-07
Hi guys, I am brand new to the forum and pretty happy to be here! I hear nothing but good thing about the Ubuntu forums.

I wish I could say my transition to Linux was a stress free one.. :(  Yesterday I downloaded Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty, got it all installed, and read directions on how to setup my wireless USB adapter [D-Link DWA-130] As far as I know I can do it if the OS wouldn't keep crashing on me!! I insert my 9.04 live disc I made to setup ndiswrapper, but every time I put in the disc, it waits about 20 seconds then it completely crashes, I have to do a hard shutdown. I tried making a new copy of the Live CD, still nothing. It is really irritating that I can't get the internet setup on it, I spent all day yesterday uninstalling reinstalling, tweaking, etc and I cant find a way around it. Now im stuck with windows just so I have web access to ask you guys for help.


What i have read is you pop the CD in then in Synaptics package manager you hit add cd-rom and it finds all the add-ons and installs them. Is there any possible way I can manually install ndiswrapper for 9.04 and then go from there? I would say my computer knowledge is on the high side so I know my way around, but I am a complete newb to Linux so please spoonfeed me.. I dont know all the commands in Terminal so bare with me.

If anyone could help that would make my week!! I am getting so fed up and want to kibosh the whole thing :S  Thanks a ton.

---

### Post by Commander_Keen on 2009-10-07
Good Day Sir,
 1) Re-burn the copy at the speed of 2x.  
 2) after you installed it.. then you should hook it up to yoru router, 
    vai a hard wire.. 
 3) Update the OS..
 
After you update the OS, then try to set up wireless.
Also if you can try to use Netgear WG111 V2, and V3

---

### Post by Silence9 on 2009-10-07
Ok thank you sir. I downloaded ImgBurn i will try that instead of InfraRecorder. Do you think It will still crash if I rewrite at 2x? I hope I can get it to work this way, if not I will have to go and buy a 50 foot Cat5 cable :/  This may sound dumb but how do I update the OS when I have web access? Thanks

Sorry I forgot to ask. It seems I have to copies of Ubuntu on different partitions.. When Grub boots up theres 2 different ubuntu's I have 2, 500gig hard drives and I would like to have them seperate but all the paritions are goofed up now. What option should I select when it asks for amount of space to partition? I want to erase all those little ones and the old copies of Ubuntu and do a fresh install with the 2x disc. How would I do this? Thanks

---

### Post by Silence9 on 2009-10-07
Update: Well i reburned another copy at a lower speed and it still causes the OS to crash. It's getting pretty frustrating thats for sure. Next step is to buy a cat5 cable i guess, I will let you know how it goes.

As far as the partitioning and removing the linux OS to prepare for a new install, how would I do that? Thanks

---

### Post by itsbrad212 on 2009-10-07
its most likely a problem with your disk drive not being able to run the disc correctly. could you please post your specs?:)

---

### Post by Silence9 on 2009-10-07
Gateway desktop PC with 3 gigs of ram, 2-500 gig hard drives, 2.4ghz quad core. stock [optiarc?] cdr/dvdr drive. Its driving me crazy!! I just want internet on it!!! Thanks

---

