---
title: "9.10 black screen"
date: 2010-06-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by joker.rizos on 2010-06-14
My problem is that I get a black screen when booting, it shows the ubuntu logo (black background white logo) an then it turns black.

I've tried boot in recovery mode but the same thing happens, I can't get a shell.

I had  this same problem a week ago and solved it adding [COLOR=Black]*nomodeset *[/COLOR]to the booting options, so I think it is a problem with the video card and some recent update.

Any ideas?

Thanks in advance.

Note: I forgot to say that my video card is a NVIDIA® Quadro® FX 370!

---

### Post by Pratheek on 2010-06-14
This may sound stupid, but try it ...!! just back up your data and reformat the whole disk with the ubuntu live CD, if u don't have it partitioned with windows ..!!! or before that, u could log in to Windows(if u have it, installed! ), then go there and try to update the driver of ur Graphics card, if that too doesnt work, try to put a  new GPU for ur Pc and then try Ubuntu ..!! Then, it should PROBABLY work ...!!! 

Cheers.

---

### Post by joker.rizos on 2010-06-14
well reformat would be my last option, hope there have a less radical solution.

---

### Post by joker.rizos on 2010-06-14
Is there a way to disable nvidia drivers from shell?

---

### Post by cbrunhaver on 2010-06-14
If you updated your kernel then you need to reconfigure your nvidia drivers.

try to hit control+shift+F1 and login at the terminal.  You can rerun the driver install - 

sudo sh ./thenameofthenvidiadriverversion.sh 

or take a look at this solution here: [http://nguyenthanhcong.com/reconfigure-nvidia-driver-for-the-new-kernel/](http://nguyenthanhcong.com/reconfigure-nvidia-driver-for-the-new-kernel/)

---

### Post by joker.rizos on 2010-06-14
I'm not sure but I think that I have the non-proprietary nvidia driver or something, is that?

I don't know exactly how but I've solved the problem, booting with live cd I've uninstalled some 'nvidia' packages with apt-get and also I've executed:
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
does that have anything to do with the reconfigure thing?

---

### Post by joker.rizos on 2010-06-18
Ok, I need your help again.

I just realized that there is not way to boot in recovery mode, actually I'm writing you from my ubuntu but today I need to do some things in recovery mode and it gets stuck in the same black screen.

Another thing is that, after booting in "normal mode", the shortcut ctrl+alt+f1 f2 f3 etc neither works, it doesn't show the shell but the black screen, the only one that works is gnome desktop, i mean ctrl+alt+f7.

I've tried adding 'noapic' and 'nomodeset' in the grub menu to the booting options of recovery mode but nothing change.

---

