---
title: "10.04 Will Not Start, Unable to Execute Several Main Processes."
date: 2010-09-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bowsey on 2010-09-30
(I'm fairly new to Ubuntu, and these forums. If I'm leaving out any important information or If I have posted this in the wrong area, please let me know.)

I was attempting to setup Oracle 11g on my system using these steps:
[INDENT][http://lesscode.blogspot.com/2010/04/install-oracle-11g-r2-on-ubuntu-104.html](http://lesscode.blogspot.com/2010/04/install-oracle-11g-r2-on-ubuntu-104.html)[/INDENT]

I had to stop and shut down after the third "segment" of commands:
[INDENT]> root@luan-laptop:~# cd /bin
root@luan-laptop:/bin# ls -l /bin/sh
   lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 4 2010-20-04 21:33 /bin/sh -> dash
root@luan-laptop:/bin# ln -sf /bin/bash /bin/sh
root@luan-laptop:/bin# ls -l /bin/sh
   lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 4 2010-20-04 22:34 /bin/sh -> bash
root@luan-laptop:/bin#[/INDENT]

A few hours later I attempted to start my computer but I get several lines, a blinking cursor, and not much else:
[INDENT]> 
Init: Failed to spawn plymouth main process: unable to execute: Not a directory
Init: Failed to spawn hwclock main process: unable to execute: Not a directory
Init: Failed to spawn mountall main process: unable to execute: Not a directory
Init: Failed to spawn mountall post-stop process: unable to execute: Not a directory
[/INDENT]

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by bowsey on 2010-09-30
Will someone please help. I'm so desprate, this computer is my primary(and only) system. I've tried google and and searching the forums, but I'm getting nothing useful..... I'm typing this as a friend pushes me off their netbook! Help please!

---

### Post by bowsey on 2010-10-01
ITS FIXED! I went in with a start up disk and looked at the /bin/sh file and I guess I fudged up that ln command and linked sh to "/bin/bash/bin/sh". :)

---

