---
title: "[SOLVED] Hard Drive(s) do not show."
date: 2007-12-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ashmew2 on 2007-12-26
Hi everyone. I am an Edgy User. And Ive been having some problems lately. First of all  , I cant boot the Ubuntu installation normally (I mean selecting the first entry from Grub) , because if i do so , i get the IO-APIC error. I got around it by always starting the system in recovery mode and then starting gdm. As soon as the system starts , I get an "Unable to initialize HAL" error thingy.

I am dual booting with Windows XP and have 2 X 250 GB Hard Drives. They have many partitions out of which some are Fat32 and others are NTFS.Sometimes when i start Ubuntu , only two of the partitions are recognized and i can read/write to them. But for some reason by other partitions do not show.
My /etc/fstab is as follows :

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda10 :
UUID=8eb6b9ca-9d3e-45eb-851f-aaf81e8c3f04 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=af4a2c32-83f7-4108-8b53-4b1eeda8314e /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=242C1A622C1A2EF4 /media/Windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1

UUID=6CFCE869FCE82ED0 /media/sda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
/dev/sda6 /media/Apps vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
/dev/sda7 /media/Songs vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb1 :
UUID=8C58E0B058E099EA /media/Games ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb5 :
UUID=4650D10450D0FB9D /media/Movies ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb6 :
UUID=D4E8D973E8D953F8 /media/Series ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdb7 :
UUID=E414B35E14B33302 /media/Dbz ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda9 :
UUID=70543045-924e-4e51-9e9a-7e3de3ff2077 none swap sw 0 0

/dev/sda5 /media/Centurions ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

# CD rom ?

/dev/hdb /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,auto 0 0
```

The two partitions that always show up are /dev/sda6 and /dev/sda7 

When i try to run the command : sudo mount -a
I get the error :

```
$LogFile indicates unclean shutdown (0, 0)
Failed to mount '/dev/sda5': Operation not supported
Mount is denied because NTFS is marked to be in use. Choose one action:

Choice 1: If you have Windows then disconnect the external devices by
          clicking on the 'Safely Remove Hardware' icon in the Windows
          taskbar then shutdown Windows cleanly.

Choice 2: If you don't have Windows then you can use the 'force' option for
          your own responsibility. For example type on the command line:

            mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda5 /media/Centurions -o force

    Or add the option to the relevant row in the /etc/fstab file:

            /dev/sda5 /media/Centurions ntfs-3g defaults,force 0 0


```

for all my NTFS drives when i have cleanly shut down windows.


Btw , I have to issue the command : ```
sudo /etc/init.d/dbus start
``` whenever i start the system to access things like the network-admin or it just gives me an error "You are not permitted"

Thanks

---

### Post by tgilber1 on 2007-12-26
I have run into issues with the UUID a couple of times where Linux does not find the partition.  Hence, I updated the /etc/fstab file by replacing the UUID with the device path, i.e., /dev/sda1.  

After booting up,I used "sudo tune2fs -U clear /dev/<partition>" to clear the UUID for affected partition.  

Next, I issued the following command "sudo tune2fs -U random <partition>" to generate a random UUID.  

Finally, I checked and updated the /etc/fstab and /boot/grub/menu.lst, if required.

---

### Post by ashmew2 on 2007-12-26
Could you plz Exemplify  yourself a bit ? ;)

---

### Post by tgilber1 on 2007-12-26
To clarify, I have run into issues with using UUID to boot up the computer, especially after upgrading Ubuntu.  Somehow, the UUID got hosed during the upgrade.  Even though the UUID on the hard drive partition matched what was in the /etc/fstab file, it still could not find the device.  Hence, I changed from UUID to device path in the fstab and menu.lst config files.  Then, I updated the UUID and changed the device path to the new UUIDs.  

There are three ways for linux to find hard disks during bootup; device path, label, and UUID.

Device path = calls the absolute or direct path of block device (e.g., hard drive).
ex.  /dev/sda1 (sata hard drive) or /dev/hda1 (ata hard drive)

Label = calls the block device by a pre-defined name set by user.  The label is set by the root or sudo user 

format:  sudo tune2fs -L <mydevice name> <block_device>"

ex.  sudo tune2fs -L BOOT /dev/sda1 #names the /dev/sda1 as BOOT

UUID = Universally unique identification that is also set using the tune2fs command.

format: sudo tune2fs -U clear /dev/<partition>" #clears the UUID for affected partition.  

ex.  sudo tune2fs -U random /dev/sda1" #sets a randomly-generated UUID for affected partition



Using the device path is the most simple way to get things going, since you only have to edit, at most, two files, /etc/fstab and /boot/grub/menu.lst.  

If you use label or uuid, you will also have to run tune2fs.

extract from my /etc/fstab, which shows the three ways - label and device path are commented out

# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
#LABEL=BOOT /boot ext3 defaults 0 2
#/dev/sda1 /boot ext3 defaults 0 2
UUID=41b5f2b5-1eb5-4436-9511-62faf14f0501 /boot ext3 defaults 0 2


extract from my /boot/grub/menu.lst

title           Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root            (hd0,0)
kernel          /vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=/dev/sda3 ro quiet splash noresume
initrd          /initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-12-26
> **tgilber1 said:**
>  sudo tune2fs -U clear /dev/<partition>" #clears the UUID for affected partition.  

ex.  sudo tune2fs -U random /dev/sda1" #sets a randomly-generated UUID for affected partition

Interesting.  I use tune2fs for labels, and have wondered how to generate/change uuids other than manually, but was too lazy to check.  '-U' option, have to remember that...

---

### Post by ashmew2 on 2008-02-13
Thanks , clearing the UUID and setting the /dev path in fstab solved it ! Cheers !

---

