---
title: "14.04LTS:After most recent upd's, Unity desktop trashed &amp; won't stay up"
date: 2015-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stevecro2 on 2015-05-19
On my 14.04 LTS which has gotten all updates until now: After most recent updates last night, on boot-up, Unity desktop is trashed. Buttons at left are all multi-color "static" and are unreadable. Either no, or almost no, wallpaper (only at top of screen or just some patches of it come up here and there). Controls in upper right corner don't work either. Knowing what the buttons are on the left from memory, can sometimes force up GKrellm or Chrome. After being up for a few minutes, desktop graphical display goes dark (crashes?) and have to reboot. Can sometimes reboot with Ctrl-Alt-SysRq-R-E-I-S-U-B, sometimes have to hold power button. *Can* boot up into text "recovery" mode but not sure if there's anything I can do to help from there. Trying full boot from an older kernel in the list doesn't help either. First time this has happened. Weeks or months ago, expanded my partition, so I know there is plenty of space. 

Is there a way I can run a repair for the wm/desktop from the text mode, or is there a way that I can find and back out the update from last night that I think probably caused this? THANKS IN ADVANCE!

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2015-05-20
Duplicate
see
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2279009](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2279009)

Do Not start multiple threads on the same subject as that dilutes the help you may get.
This thread is now closed.

---

