---
title: "10.10 Maverick boot splash problem"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Schroeder on 2010-10-10
I had the same problem with Lucid and was hoping that this would have been fixed: the boot splash on Lucid was showing some ugly low-res version of the logo. After the network upgrade Maverick it is even worse! It just shows some ugly text: 10.10 Maverick Meerkat (or something like that). It looks horrible!

I am running Ubuntu 10.10 (64 bit) on a Dell Studio 15 with propriatery FGLRX graphics drivers.

---

### Post by user1001 on 2010-10-10
> **Schroeder said:**
> I had the same problem with Lucid and was hoping that this would have been fixed: the boot splash on Lucid was showing some ugly low-res version of the logo. After the network upgrade Maverick it is even worse! It just shows some ugly text: 10.10 Maverick Meerkat (or something like that). It looks horrible!

I am running Ubuntu 10.10 (64 bit) on a Dell Studio 15 with propriatery FGLRX graphics drivers.

I am having the same problem :\...
Ubuntu - Always run in to problems !

---

### Post by Schroeder on 2010-10-10
Removing fglrx (at least partially, since the removal fails) seems to fix the startup problem. I now see the nice high res Ubuntu logo. However, after that I only see a black screen. Gnome does not start up. I can press the power button on my laptop and I see the (high-res) shutdown screen and the machine shuts down.

Something is seriously wrong.

---

### Post by JustinR on 2010-10-10
[http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Fix-the-Big-and-Ugly-Plymouth-Logo-in-Ubuntu-10-04-140810.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Fix-the-Big-and-Ugly-Plymouth-Logo-in-Ubuntu-10-04-140810.shtml)

---

### Post by rogeriovinhal on 2010-10-11
That's exactly what happened to me, and all these fixes and workarounds that involves uvesafb doesn't work at all for me. I tried A LOT of howtos, reverted back, tried again, and nothing. :(

Isn't there an official update for this is 6 months? Or they really don't care about people who use proprietary drivers?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-10-11
use the x-swat ppa and run startup-manager to set your resolution

---

### Post by RedNight on 2010-10-11
These are my splash boot and shutdown screens:


[[IMG]http://img411.imageshack.us/img411/3048/img00036201010111356.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img411.imageshack.us/i/img00036201010111356.jpg/)

and


[[IMG]http://img36.imageshack.us/img36/30/img00037201010111414.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img36.imageshack.us/i/img00037201010111414.jpg/)


Any suggestion? :)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-10-11
> **RedNight said:**
> These are my splash boot and shutdown screens:


[[IMG]http://img411.imageshack.us/img411/3048/img00036201010111356.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img411.imageshack.us/i/img00036201010111356.jpg/)

and


[[IMG]http://img36.imageshack.us/img36/30/img00037201010111414.th.jpg[/IMG]](http://img36.imageshack.us/i/img00037201010111414.jpg/)


Any suggestion? :) About what ? If you mean to hide the verbose comments, add "quiet" to /etc/default/grub

---

### Post by Karpah on 2010-10-11
I'm having the exact same issue as this, with Lucid and now with Maverick. :(

---

### Post by Karpah on 2010-10-11
> **dino99 said:**
> About what ? If you mean to hide the verbose comments, add "quiet" to /etc/default/grub

No, the log messages are over the top of the broken splash screen. No logo at all.

---

### Post by hiacynt on 2010-10-11
I had this problem too. Install 'startup-manager', and use it to change the resolution of the loading screen to 1024x768 under 'Display' (**not** the resolution in the 'Advanced' tab). Doing this removed this extra text in my case. If it won't work, then try other resolutions, maybe it'll help.

I have no clue why this happens and even less clue as to why changing the resolution helps, to be honest. Perhaps it is simply the matter of overwriting some messed up settings, dunno.

---

### Post by Karpah on 2010-10-11
> **hiacynt said:**
> I had this problem too. Install 'startup-manager', and use it to change the resolution of the loading screen to 1024x768 under 'Display' (**not** the resolution in the 'Advanced' tab). Doing this removed this extra text in my case. If it won't work, then try other resolutions, maybe it'll help.

I have no clue why this happens and even less clue as to why changing the resolution helps, to be honest. Perhaps it is simply the matter of overwriting some messed up settings, dunno.

This just switched the problem on my Lucid netbook, from the wrong-size logo to the text-only logo w/ verbose messages on top :/ It might be because my correct resolution (1366x768) wasn't listed there? I'm assuming it just writes to a config file.... do you know which file so I can set the right res manually?

ps. the package was called 'startupmanager', not 'startup-manager', that confused me for a sec ;)

---

### Post by Karpah on 2010-10-11
Hmm... some research on these forums has led me to believe that both issues (wrong res logo, and text-only w/ messages) are to do with a conflict between Nvidia drivers and Plymouth, the program that handles that screen (which I had never heard of before said research).

Will keep looking, and if I find something that works for both Lucid and Maverick (I now have a system running each, one with each problem), will post here.

---

### Post by Locke_99GS on 2010-10-11
```

sudo apt-get install hwinfo
hwinfo --framebuffer

```

Find the res you want, then add the hex value (including 0x) as a vga= string to your kernel boot options.

Setting grub/burg to the same res as the kernel and my desktop (nvidia) makes for a flicker free high res graphical boot experience with proprietary dirvers.

---

### Post by Karpah on 2010-10-11
OK nothing is working for me now, the fix I mentioned in this post borks up a whole lot of other stuff, like all the other tty inputs. 

Locke: That doesn't work for me either, I get nothing output from hwinfo --framebuffer.

---

### Post by Orfantal on 2010-10-11
This is the solution that worked for me for this same problem on 10.04. It worked for me now on 10.10 as well.

Linky:
[http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lucidubuntu-10-04-high-resolution-plymouth-virtual-terminal-for-atinvidia-cards-with-proprietaryrestricted-driver/](http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lucidubuntu-10-04-high-resolution-plymouth-virtual-terminal-for-atinvidia-cards-with-proprietaryrestricted-driver/)

One thing is that this changes the resolution of the grub menu screen as well. This is the setting GRUB_GFXMODE=1366x768, IIRC, and it can be changed to whatever you like (if you want to keep 640x480 maybe, cause the text get very small). I fiddled around quite a bit with this when Lucid came, but I think that was the setting for that.

Good luck!

(I have an nvidia 8800GTS graphic card, widescreen monitor, resolution 1680x1050)

---

### Post by bgrohe on 2010-10-11
I have the issue that the logo doesn't show up, and I found that the proprietary nvidia drivers cause the problem. If you disable the nvidia drivers then it will use nouveau drivers which are horrible in daily use (at least with my chipset), but the boot screen works flawlessly. Can anyone confirm this?

bgrohe
[B]
[/B]

---

### Post by ariel on 2010-10-11
I could solve this problem by installing "startupmanager", firing it up from the System > Administration menu and configuring it. I didn't know this app existed at all, all thru the Lucid cycle I had a low-res splash, and after the maverick update it was all text-based (same as the screenshots posted earlier in this thread).

AMD64, nvidia, 1600x1200 resolution.

---

### Post by bgrohe on 2010-10-12
> **ariel said:**
> I could solve this problem by installing "startupmanager", firing it up from the System > Administration menu and configuring it. I didn't know this app existed at all, all thru the Lucid cycle I had a low-res splash, and after the maverick update it was all text-based (same as the screenshots posted earlier in this thread).

AMD64, nvidia, 1600x1200 resolution.

I tried it and it actually worked for me to.

---

### Post by tedrogers on 2010-10-12
startupmanager worked brilliantly for me.

All I had prior to this was the words UBUNTO 10.10 in huge and ugly 640x480 letters, no logo at all.

Now I have a nice graphic logo at 1600x1200 :)

Thanks.

---

### Post by Karpah on 2010-10-12
> **Orfantal said:**
> This is the solution that worked for me for this same problem on 10.04. It worked for me now on 10.10 as well.

Linky:
[http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lucidubuntu-10-04-high-resolution-plymouth-virtual-terminal-for-atinvidia-cards-with-proprietaryrestricted-driver/](http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lucidubuntu-10-04-high-resolution-plymouth-virtual-terminal-for-atinvidia-cards-with-proprietaryrestricted-driver/)

One thing is that this changes the resolution of the grub menu screen as well. This is the setting GRUB_GFXMODE=1366x768, IIRC, and it can be changed to whatever you like (if you want to keep 640x480 maybe, cause the text get very small). I fiddled around quite a bit with this when Lucid came, but I think that was the setting for that.

Good luck!

(I have an nvidia 8800GTS graphic card, widescreen monitor, resolution 1680x1050)

This worked for me excellently! Thank you! :D

---

### Post by bishop_perth on 2010-10-14
Thankfully the link provided before [http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lucidubuntu-10-04-high-resolution-plymouth-virtual-terminal-for-atinvidia-cards-with-proprietaryrestricted-driver/]("http://idyllictux.wordpress.com/2010/04/26/lucidubuntu-10-04-high-resolution-plymouth-virtual-terminal-for-atinvidia-cards-with-proprietaryrestricted-driver/")worked a treat on 10.10 with an 8800gts in a dell xpsm1530 :guitar:

---

### Post by TheKid965 on 2010-10-17
The startupmanager solution worked for me, but it only seems to offer non-widescreen resolutions.  Which is fine, but it does look more than a little awkward on a 16:9 monitor.

Anyone know how to make it possible to select my monitor's native resolution (1920x1080), or at least a 16:9-format one, through startupmanager?  Or even if it's possible?

---

### Post by aniruddha on 2010-10-17
Yes, any tips on widescreen resolutions would be great. I'm using a 1920x1080 monitor too.

---

### Post by matsuzine on 2010-10-18
The fix for me was pretty simple, after I tried a whole bunch of other options.

```
echo FRAMEBUFFER=y > /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/splash 
update-initramfs -u
```

Then I also installed startupmanager and adjusted the boot resolution to a more reasonable one.  Since then, the logo is okay.  I hope this gets an official fix, though.

Please note, this fix might slow down your boot slightly, although it wasn't noticeable on my system.

---

### Post by NTHQ on 2010-10-18
> **JustinR said:**
> [http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Fix-the-Big-and-Ugly-Plymouth-Logo-in-Ubuntu-10-04-140810.shtml](http://news.softpedia.com/news/How-to-Fix-the-Big-and-Ugly-Plymouth-Logo-in-Ubuntu-10-04-140810.shtml)
I followed the instructions from the first alternative on the page mentioned above but substituted my own resolution of 1440x900 where applicable and it works perfectly fine.

---

### Post by gokulvarma on 2010-10-18
I think this will definitely help.
[How to fix Ugly plymouth logo in ubuntu 10.10]("http://open-help.blogspot.com/2010/09/how-to-fix-ugly-plymouth-logo-on-ubuntu.html")

---

### Post by Hack.The.Pow. on 2010-10-18
> **gokulvarma said:**
> I think this will definitely help.
[How to fix Ugly plymouth logo in ubuntu 10.10]("http://open-help.blogspot.com/2010/09/how-to-fix-ugly-plymouth-logo-on-ubuntu.html")

woohoo!  that actually worked.  

Only little annoyance is that the entries on the grub menu have a pretty small font.  But I can live with that.

---

### Post by p54c on 2010-10-19
> **gokulvarma said:**
> I think this will definitely help.
[How to fix Ugly plymouth logo in ubuntu 10.10]("http://open-help.blogspot.com/2010/09/how-to-fix-ugly-plymouth-logo-on-ubuntu.html")

I had to add the string
GRUB_GFXPAYLOAD_LINUX=*resolution*
to make it work

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-10-19
Try the tutorial in my sig. I have a super nice 1920x1200 24 bit depth picture as my grub screen.
And it is especially nice if you are dual booting. 
There are some sample pictures at the bottom - one before changing the grub font (pretty small print)
and the other is after changing the font.

It's all easily reversible if you don't like it.

I just have 3 lines in my grub screen:
[B]Ubuntu Maverick Meerkat 10.10 
Ubuntu Maverick Meerkat 10.10 (Recovery Mode)(recovery)
Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)[/B]

But, what you want to display is totally up to you. You just make certain files unexecutable if you 
don't want memtest for example to show up.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2010-10-19
Another thing I want to mention is that I did an upgrade to Maverick from Lucid and my Grub was "different". There were a lot of things 
in there I hadn't seen before. Then I did a clean install when the RC came out and what a difference! My grub2 was fresh and I didn't 
need to do a whole lot, except make the changes in my tutorial and I was back to being a happy camper.

That was my first attempt at an upgrade and I am sticking with fresh clean installs from now on.

---

### Post by ebramwells on 2010-10-20
Tried all the above tutorials (most of them are duplicates anyway) but I still get the big ugly logo. I guess it doesn’t really matter, it would just be nice if Ubuntu actually worked properly with the proprietary drivers.

---

### Post by Zetheroo on 2010-12-31
Hey guys ... install Startup-manager from Synaptic and choose higher resolutions from there ... it's a lot easier than the cmd line edits and it actually works!

---

