---
title: ".Trash bin not working"
date: 2006-02-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by z_diver on 2006-02-19
I accidently removed the trash icon from the corner of my taskbar.  After adding it again through the Add to Panel wizard now it doesn't show any trash although I have lots in there.  I think the shortcut is just pointing to the wrong place.  I would imagine it's easy to edit but I'm not sure which file it is.

---

### Post by amoser on 2006-02-19
Try deleteing your .Trash folder in your home directory.

~Alan

---

### Post by z_diver on 2006-02-20
[QUOTE=amoser]Try deleteing your .Trash folder in your home directory.
[/QUOTE]
Thanks but that didn't do it.  When i deleted something it created a new .Trash directory and put the deleted item in there but my icon in the task bar still shows empty and takes me to a place called trash: which is empty?!?!  

Could this have anything to do with me running my home directory on a different physical drive?

---

### Post by dvarsam on 2006-02-20
[QUOTE=z_diver]Thanks but that didn't do it.  When i deleted something it created a new .Trash directory and put the deleted item in there but my icon in the task bar still shows empty and takes me to a place called trash: which is empty?!?!  

Could this have anything to do with me running my home directory on a different physical drive?[/QUOTE]


There is one thing to keep in mind in Ubuntu:

EVERY Partition & EVERY user has a DIFFERENT .Trash Can (Folder).

That includes the Root User too !!!

So, maybe your Trash - is lying in a different Partition, you probably did NOT mount, or that is not connected to your computer.

That is why your .Trash folder looks empty.

Hook up ALL your partitions & Hard Drives and you should be able to see the .Trash in ALL your Partitions.

Hope I helped.

---

### Post by z_diver on 2006-02-20
[QUOTE=dvarsam]
Hook up ALL your partitions & Hard Drives and you should be able to see the .Trash in ALL your Partitions.
[/QUOTE]
My trash is interesting...
~/.Trash has 3 items in it
/mnt/sata/.Trash-me is empty.
and the Trash Panel icon shows empty.

How is this supposed to work anyhow?  If i drag something into the Trash panel icon it goes into ~/.Trash.  Fine, but my trash bin still shows up as empty and I have to use the command line to delete the trash from ~/.Trash.  hmm! :rolleyes:

---

### Post by z_diver on 2006-02-21
It's all working now.  The problem was my home directory being a symlink from one disk to another.  Once I changed the path in /etc/passwd and logged out, Nautilus straightened out the trash: location automatically.

---

