---
title: "Bootup problem."
date: 2009-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-25
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8YTEPYYDKfk](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8YTEPYYDKfk)

There's the video showing my problem. I think I installed video card drivers that didn't work and I didn't remove them before I restarted my computer. And now this is like this, I don't know why. I'm not sure if it's the video card drivers that I installed, I'm just assuming.

If anyone can help, that would be great.

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by macaholic on 2009-10-25
What kind of grpahics card do you have in your system?
Additionally, while you get the garbled mess of a screen, have you tried hitting "Ctrl + Alt + F#"? That should bring you to a tty terminal which could help in resolving your problem.

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-25
ATI video card.

The video card is "Asus Radeon A9600XT".

And what do I do after the terminal?

Edit: Ok, it did nothing when I pressed all F1 to F12, while holding down Ctrl Alt.

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by nitro_n2o on 2009-10-25
If you just remove the driver you installed, you'll fix it 

log in using safe mode with terminal and sudo apt-get remove <the driver name> 

this could be fglrx 

I have an ATI too and it sucks can't get it to run with linux, nVidia is much bette

---

### Post by macaholic on 2009-10-25
Do you have internet access from the command terminal? An easy way to test would be just a simple ping google.com
If you do, we can try to have you install the ATI drivers from the command line a couple ways.

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-25
I can't get into the terminal even though I hold down Ctrl Alt and I tried press all the F1 to F12.

Should I reformatt?

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
Boot to your LiveCD and go into you /etc/x11/xorg.conf file and comment out your driver.

Should get you back up.

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-25
I don't quite understand what you mean. Can you give me some instructions on how to do so? I'm not very good with Ubuntu.

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by Aero-Z on 2009-10-25
> **LeetNeo said:**
> I don't quite understand what you mean. Can you give me some instructions on how to do so? I'm not very good with Ubuntu.

-LeetNeo.
Boot with your Ubuntu installation/live cd. Go and edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf. Comment out (which means put "#" infront of the line), save the file and reboot without the installation/live cd.
PS. I don't remember which line it is exactly :P Something like Device Driver or such.

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-25
Ok I boot up with the LiveCD but where do I go to fix it? After the LiveCD boots up, it shows which language, I picked English. And then where do I go to fix it? I have no idea how to get there.

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
You need to boot to the desktop on the LiveCD, this is the option to try ubuntu without changes to your computer at the top of the menu list.

When you get in got to Places>Home Folder.  Click on home folder.  Your file manager is now up.  In the Right column you should see listed any OS' on your box.  Click on the one you are having trouble with.

There should be, on the main part of the screen, a list of Icons.  One is etc.  Click on that.  Now you have a bunch more folder icons.  Type X.  This will take you to the X11 folder.  Hit enter and it will open.  In it you will see the xorg.conf file.  Right click on that and choose to open it with the "text editor" (it may say "gedit" instead of "text editor").

Go to edit (top left of screen) >"select all" and click on that.  Then do the same thing again with edit but select copy and click on that.

Paste that on your reply here and we will have a look at it and see what needs to be done.

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-25
Do you mean Right Column as in Left Column, because I don't see any column on the right. And it doesn't show my Operating System, but it does show my hard drive.

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-25
Actually nevermind, I found it.

> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-25
I most certainly did mean the other right.  Sorry tired and have a day job riding for hours pushing cows in  wet weather tomorrow.  More tired just thinking about it.

I do not see anything there on a driver.  I find this strange because 9.10 does not have a xorg.conf file by default.

Is this a clean install or did you upgrade?

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-25
I've tried installing that ATI driver program from Add and Remove.

And then when I restarted my computer without removing the program, it did this.

And the version of Ubuntu I had was I think 9.04 with all the updates I downloaded, and it was a clean install as in formatting the whole hard drive.

Anyways, I don't know what to do now.

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-26
OK so we are working with Jaunty.  I really was tired and have to leave directly to gather this bunch.

I am using the "ATI Proprietary Driver" here on Jaunty.  This is the one you get by going to System>Administration>Hardware Drivers.

After looking in Add/Remove (I never use it) I see that it offers the same one.

My xorg.conf does not look like yours at all.
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "aticonfig Layout"
    Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
    Driver    "fglrx"
EndSection

I think you need this kind of file there if you are sure that you installed it.  I guess add/remove is probably pretty automatic.

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-10-26
So should I copy that into my own file?

I don't know what to do, I know if I remove those drivers that I installed, I'll be able to get back into Ubuntu.

-LeetNeo.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-10-27
Sorry for the delay, long day.

You can not do anything to system files as you do not have permission.  You need to control the system as root.

To do that you need to chroot in.  I would follow these instructions as they are the most complete.  You must do each command in the order set out here;
```

                                 udo mkdir /mnt/karmic  
 sudo mount /dev/sda5(change to what you have) /mnt/karmic/  
 sudo mount -o bind /proc /mnt/karmic/proc  
 sudo mount -o bind /dev /mnt/karmic/dev 
 sudo mount -o bind /dev/pts /mnt/karmic/dev/pts  
 sudo mount -o bind /sys /mnt/karmic/sys 
 sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /mnt/karmic/etc/resolve.conf  
 sudo chroot /mnt/karmic /bin/bash  
 sudo dhclient wlan0(or eth0)

```I would read this thread before doing that;
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1156240&highlight=chroot](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1156240&highlight=chroot)

When you get in I would run;
```

sudo apt-get update

AND THEN

sudo apt-get upgrade

```and replace your file with mine.  The best thing to do would be pull up yours and save it as xorg.conf.OLD (this will preserve it in case you need it) and then save mine as the xorg.conf file.

Reboot and see what happens before going further.  We have had updates.  Maybe it works now.
EDIT
I can not see how it could work without a mention in the xorg.config file.

If still no joy you will have to get someone else to give you the command for removing the driver.  Run a search, I usually do not run them as the generic is good enough for me.

---

### Post by cjovergaard on 2009-10-30
åæø

---

### Post by LeetNeo on 2009-11-04
Actually I can't figure this out, I'll just reformat.

-LeetNeo.

---

