---
title: "xorg.conf trying to enable 50Hz"
date: 2009-09-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2009-09-19
My dads TV runs at 1360x768  @ 50  MAX
ATM he's on 1024x768 - when I select 1360x768 the TV says - not supported. looking at ATI settings 1360x768 runs @ 60Hhz and is not changeable -- --


How can I add 50Hz to the 1360x768 setting?


heres the xorg.conf....


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "amdcccle-Screen[1]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load  "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option        "Xinerama" "off"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver      "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout" "gb"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
    Driver      "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
    HorizSync    30.0 - 79.0
    VertRefresh  50.0 - 75.0
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
#    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier   "amdcccle-Monitor[1]-0"
    Option        "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
    Option        "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
    Option        "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    Option        "UseFastTLS" "1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "amdcccle-Device[1]-0"
    Driver      "fglrx"
    BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
    Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
    Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
        Modes    "1360x768@50"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier "amdcccle-Screen[1]-0"
    Device     "amdcccle-Device[1]-0"
    Monitor    "amdcccle-Monitor[1]-0"
    DefaultDepth     24
    SubSection "Display"
        Viewport   0 0
        Depth     24
    EndSubSection
EndSection





Thanks

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2009-09-19
anybody?

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2009-09-19
Make sure your Vertical Refresh and Horizontal Sync values are correct for what your TV can handle.

Open a terminal:

gtf 1360 768 50

Cut and paste the entire line and put it after the {Option "DPMS" "true"} line.

Reboot.

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2009-09-20
tried that and it booted to safe mode, I wonder if the gfx is unable to support that refresh rate at that resolution...

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2009-09-20
What is the model of the graphics card?  It is strange that the TV won't support 60Hz at native resolution.  Can you dual-boot into Windows and see if the Windows driver works with the ATI card?  If you can drive the TV properly at 1360x768x50 in Windows, then you know the ATI card can do it. That would point to a deficiency in the proprietary ATI driver.  Have you tried the open ATI driver?

---

### Post by SlugSlug on 2009-09-20
there is no windows installation, he seems happy with 1024x768 - I've not seen the output - am thinking it must be 'off' ? not tried open source drives -- he was on jaunty but had to downgrade to hardy due to ati driver support.   card is X800

---

