---
title: "8.04, every aspect from startup to desktop is too slow and nearly unusable"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by the_darkside_986 on 2008-04-27
I did a clean install of Hardy but everything, including the startup time, is sluggish and basic tasks such as starting a new process generally cause the system to freeze for a while. The live CD session doesn't do this, it only happens when I install it to the disk. I suppose it isn't a disk problem because XP still works as usual. This is a system with 1024 MB of RAM, 3.2 GHz CPU, ATA hard drive. I have desktop effects disabled and I'm even killing trackerd. The output of 'top' isn't anything different than usual. Does anyone have any ideas? Am I the only one with this problem?

---

### Post by daveny on 2008-04-27
I have a same problem like this.

I have a mid-high config, 2core, 2GB RAM, 250GB SATA, 512MB ATI 1950XT and Ubuntu x64 is a bit slow.
I use compiz, and it can't be the problem, I had an ubuntu clone (Linux Mint) and there everything worked fine. And also had ubuntu 7.10 in my computer and that worked well too. 8.04 however is a bit slow.
Slow in: changing desktops (compiz:expo), maximizing and minimizing windows, scrolling in firefox3b5, scrolling in the pdf reader, ...

What should I do?

---

### Post by the_darkside_986 on 2008-04-27
Oh I forgot to mention, I already tried turning acpi off, but then it's even worse, and the Gnome login sound keeps repeating and there's no way to stop it (not even killing X) without restarting the whole system. weird.

---

### Post by czechman86 on 2008-04-27
I am having very similar problems to this myself. I am experiencing program lock ups, having to force quit them, and even random crashes. mem test shows that I have good memory and all other hardware appears to be okay. I have and AMD Athlon X2 2.2 ghz, ati graphics (on my ecs mobo), 2 gigs of ram, and a 500 gig hd.

---

### Post by master_b on 2008-04-27
I'm runninh Kubuntu Hardy 8.04 beta with all updates.

I just uninstalled Tracker ( who needs a damn indexing program anyway) and most of the above problems went away.

Try it. You can always reinstal it if you want it

---

### Post by czechman86 on 2008-04-27
> **master_b said:**
> I'm runninh Kubuntu Hardy 8.04 beta with all updates.

I just uninstalled Tracker ( who needs a damn indexing program anyway) and most of the above problems went away.

Try it. You can always reinstal it if you want it

how did you uninstall it? what is the package name  in synaptic or what is the apt-get remove code that you used? also, which problems, were you not having or did not go away? thanks!

---

### Post by the_darkside_986 on 2008-04-27
I uninstalled "tracker" or whatever but I still have the exact same issues. Tracker only made it worse but it was not the main cause. It seems like it is something to do with the disk or the way the kernel is using the disk. I just don't know what though.

Startup time hangs mostly on the "kinit: No resume image, doing normal boot" for a very long time but after it gets past that message it starts up faster. (This is viewed by Ctrl+Alt+F1). Launching programs and using the desktop is still lagging.

---

### Post by the_darkside_986 on 2008-04-27
For people whose experience with Hardy is faster than Gutsy, what is your hardware setup? I need to know what to get for compatibility. Of course, the wide range of hardware specs in this thread looks worrying, but some individuals in #ubuntu have stated that their 8.04 experience is nice. 

If no one can fix this I will simply have to find another distro. 5 minute startup times for open office is just not acceptable.

---

### Post by the_darkside_986 on 2008-04-28
Of course I am only joking about switching distros. There's no distro that combines bleeding edge deb packaging with ease-of-use like Ubuntu. But srsly, I installed the latest (preview of) Fedora to see if it had the same problem, and while it seemed to suffer from disk i/o problems as well, I never could boot it because it wouldn't let me skip this annoying file system check (it takes way too long on any distro). 

So I went to reinstall Ubuntu from the live CD, and I noticed that the link to the initrd image was invalid (there was a *generic.bak file not generic) so I copied the *bak to *generic.bak in /boot first. Before that I did "modprobe piix" which returned an error saying that there is no such module. But anyway, I installed it again and everything seems to work as it should. Seems like the iso I downloaded passed the md5sum test. I used nautilus to burn the iso. Oh well. At least everything works nicely now.

---

