---
title: ".ico preview images in nautilus"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by damaxxed on 2009-06-23
How can I see the preview images in nautilus (2.26.2, ubuntu 9.04) of .ico files (image/vnd.microsoft.icon) ?

I have several applications that are able to open it: image viewer, f-spot, gimp, but still no preview icon in nautilus..

---

### Post by waffen on 2009-07-17
Hello,

can you found the solution for that?

Mario

---

### Post by legalguy on 2009-07-22
I had a similar problem, discovered I was in compact view instead of icon view!  Click on View, icons.

If you want to make your own previews (thumbnails?), I use GIMP to image, scale image down to 48x48 pixels, then save it in PNG format.

Then right click on your file, Properties, Basic, click on the picture of the icon and select it.  You can actually use a picture of any size if it's already thumbnailed.

Much the same procedure for emblems, in nautilus click on Edit, Backgrounds and Emblems

---

### Post by waffen on 2009-07-22
Uhm....Im not sure if I explain well my problem.

See my attach picture, thats what I see when I have .ICO files... not thumbnail like PNG image, I just copy one of them, you see the difference?

Idont know if thats possible to fixe, so I want see the .ICO like the PNG in my screenshot.

Thanks!

---

### Post by legalguy on 2009-07-23
Sorry, I don't have an explanation.  My .ico files all show up correctly.

---

### Post by Adventum on 2009-09-20
Best Application for images in Ubuntu is GIMP, with this app you can open any image file develop from a man kind. When you set specific file to be opened with GIMP you would have preview of it in Nautilus.

---

### Post by jzraikes on 2009-10-29
I've just stumbled across a similar problem myself. ico files don't show a preview in Nautilus. I'm pretty much using a fresh install, so I think it's a bug with Nautilus. The funny thing is: if I change the extension to png or jpg, a preview suddenly appears and remains there, even after I've changed the extension back...
Any ideas?
Edit: This bug also causes a further problem, because as far as I can work out, ico files can only be used as custom icons for apps, files, folders etc if their extensions are changed to png, jpg, gif. However if I try to open one with an incorrect extension, I get an error message...

---

