---
title: "5.04 + 5.1 takes forever to boot"
date: 2007-12-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hlrsenet on 2007-12-31
If you want to dive straight to the problem instead of read the whole story, scroll down to the [color=red]**red bolded text**[/color].


Firstly it would be important to know the hardware configuration that I am running on...
[http://www.hlrse.net/Qwerty/BenchmarkData/systeminfo-normal/](http://www.hlrse.net/Qwerty/BenchmarkData/systeminfo-normal/)

AMD Athlon XP 2400+ @ 2GHz
1.5GB DDR PC3200 Mushkin Dual-Channel RAM
NVIDIA GeForce 6800XT (256MB GDDR2)

I have three harddrives:
40GB IDE
200GB IDE
500GB SATA

I have two DVD drives:
IDE DVD-ROM
SATA DVD+-RW Lightscribe Burner

I have tried in every possible combination to get Ubuntu to work, but all has failed.

Here is my main problem: I used Acronis True Image Home v11 on Windows XP, created an Acronis Secure Zone (basically a hidden and unbootable FAT32 partition), and backed up my stuff. Then I whiped everything on all my harddrives completely -- with the exception of this ASZ partition.

Originally, Windows XP was installed on the very last harddrive and very last partition (not my fault). My motherboard has support for SATA, but IDE > SATA, and I can't change this. In the Windows setup (ascii-based setup) I had deleted all if any partitions, and then carefully created my partitions in such an order that my SATA would have Partition C:, D:, E:, then my IDE harddrives having F: and G:. I chose to install Windows XP on Partition C: (SATA). Now after this screen or part of the Windows ASCII setup, it "fixed" the whole rendering of the partitions and drives. My IDEs were first, so their partitions were first too. My SATA drive being last...

Rendered in Windows ASCII setup:
C: (SATA Drive 3) (20GB)
D: (SATA Drive 3) (240GB)
E: (SATA Drive 3) (240GB)
F: (IDE Drive 1) (40GB)
G: (IDE Drive 2) (200GB)

After passing that screen and choosing to setup Windows XP onto C: (SATA Drive 3):
C: (IDE Drive 1) (40GB)
D: (IDE Drive 2) (200GB)
E: (SATA Drive 3) (240GB)
F: (SATA Drive 3) (240GB)
G: (SATA Drive 3) (20GB)

That's exactly the same order as the physical (logical?) ordering my motherboard puts it. Apparently you can't intertwine partitions, orders, and harddrives with each other.

I ended up installing Windows XP on G.



Now after such long story, here is the situation. I removed both my IDE harddrives, so now I have a 155GB ASZ Partition and the rest freespace on my SATA harddrive. Windows setup detects my ASZ partition as C: -- which is BAD. From years' worth of experience on having XP installed on the very last harddrive, on the very last partition, I have found out for myself how Windows XP works. Let me explain.

Remember boot.ini? Windows XP installed that stuff onto C: -- my 40GB IDE harddrive. It was supposed to do it on G:, wouldn't you agree? Apparently that isn't how Windows XP works (thumbs down on Microsoft for this :( ). Windows XP will install its identifying information (such as boot.ini and any of those other sensitive system files in the root of a partition) in the first drive and first partition -- NOT the drive or partition you installed XP on.

If I removed my 40GB harddrive, XP wouldn't work.
If I removed my 200GB harddrive, XP wouldn't work.
If I removed a partition from my SATA harddrive, XP wouldn't work.

I even played around with the boot.ini and researched its functionality and how to customize it. So I copied the boot.ini from my C: drive, put it on the first partition of my SATA drive, and modified it so that if I were to remove my two IDE drives, it should be able to still launch XP. The way XP is launched is by identifying the drive and partition that XP is installed on. Only C and G had these vital, hidden system files in the root of their partition, no other drive or partition had it. I copied over everything that was hidden in C:\ to the first partition of my SATA drive, where I had put a modified copy of boot.ini -- all this for the sake of it.

I pull out my two IDEs and XP fails to work. Apparently the Windows XP installer imbeds something into the first drive's first partition that isn't a file of any sort, something you can't easily transfer with just bare hands and fingers. Screw it, I won't mess with this.



Moving on.



I have install and live CDs for both 5.04 and 5.1. **_I am a dialup user only because I have no jurisdiction over these things_**. I'm under my parent's legal care, period. I live in the middle of nowhere, a place that has some of the world's largest antenna towers, a doppler radar that creates a doughnut hole or blackout in our area for weather, and extremely minimal cell phone coverage (infact, after doing almost a human day's worth of research for satellite internet, I have found that basically all of them are ripoffs in every angle, and some don't even support our area even!).

5.04 and 5.1 install and live CDs failed.

[color=red]**When I say failed, I mean that when Ubuntu gets to the part of showing the mouse cursor on the screen and finally displays a refreshing light-brown colored background, the problem is here: _Ubuntu will do absolutely nothing. It will pick its nose and just do absolutely nothing. It hangs._**[/color]

The whole time that I have been typing this post up, which is about 35 to 45 minutes, on this crappy laptop, my computer has been sitting in front of me just picking its nose at "the part where the mouse cursor is and the light-brown colored background" is. I can move the mouse, but that's all I can do. The DVD drives are doing nothing, nor is my CPU. It's pooped. I've tried everything!

I already knew Ubuntu has a decent partition manager that comes with it, but to access it I have to run Ubuntu. I can't, as I have stated in the previous paragraphs. I need to use this partition manager so that I can create a partition on my SATA harddrive and move it BEFORE my Acronis Secure Zone partition, so that it would appear as the first partition of this drive in the Windows setup. That way I can actually setup Windows XP!

EDIT :: If you know of a good free bootable partition manager that is able to re-order partitions, and is only a few megabytes (less than 7MB please), that'd be great!

---

### Post by bromix on 2007-12-31
I would actually recommend either exercising patience and downloading Ubuntu Gutsy, the latest release.  Or, finding a friend with a broadband connection.  WIth the added hardware support, etc, many problems may be remedied.  And, when you think about it, you're going to have to spend some wait time as Ubuntu updates anyhow.   There are new releases periodically because the OS, and many times compatibility, is improved.

---

### Post by hlrsenet on 2007-12-31
Unfortunately updating or getting the latest Ubuntu is out of the question. I have to see with my parents if I could drive 40 some miles (distance back included) just to get ahold of anything faster than dialup.

EDIT :: School starts on Wednesday. I have to have my machine ready before then. I formatted in the first place because my latest state of XP was in utter, shameful chaos..just total chaos -- mainly because I was gearing to backup and start anew with XP again.

---

### Post by bromix on 2007-12-31
If you don't mind waiting 6-10 weeks, you can go to [http://www.ubuntu.com](http://www.ubuntu.com)   Click on Get Ubuntu, and request a free CD.  It is a little time to wait, but if it's as hard as you say to find a decent download, it might be a advantageous option for you.

---

### Post by hlrsenet on 2007-12-31
Problem with Ubuntu not solved.
Problem that *forced* me to try take advantage of Ubuntu solved.

I installed Windows XP on an IDE harddrive while the SATA harddrive was unpowered. Then I powered the SATA and used Windows XP's partition manager to create two partitions on my SATA harddrive, and was able to successfully reorder the partitions. Then removing the IDE harddrive, I was able to install Windows XP on the correct partition (of the correct order). :) Thanks for your help.

---

