---
title: "12.04 slow boot time with no IPv6 routers"
date: 2013-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by relic70 on 2013-05-23
I am using 12.04 LTS and for the past several weeks the boot time has increased significantly. I assume it is related to one of the recent kernel updates.

I found others had the same problem and it was advised to look at the dmesg output. I found a significant delay in the dmesg output as follows

[   17.291193] ADDRCONF(NETDEV_CHANGE): eth0: link becomes ready
[   21.555365] init: plymouth-stop pre-start process (1581) terminated with status 1
[   28.140935] eth0: no IPv6 routers present
[  523.034659] usb 1-1.1: new high-speed USB device number 4 using ehci_hcd
[  523.156181] Did not find alt setting 1 for intf 0, config 1
[  523.188379] usblp0: USB Bidirectional printer dev 4 if 1 alt 0 proto 2 vid 0x03F0 pid 0x7711
[  523.188416] usbcore: registered new interface driver usblp
[  524.232118] usblp0: removed
[  524.233255] usblp0: USB Bidirectional printer dev 4 if 1 alt 0 proto 2 vid 0x03F0 pid 0x7711
[  628.136736] usblp0: removed
[  628.136900] Did not find alt setting 1 for intf 0, config 1
[  668.370197] Did not find alt setting 1 for intf 0, config 1

I do not know how to correct this problem with the big delay from eth0: no IPv6 routers present through the following messages regarding usb.


Any help would be appreciated. I have a System 76 Wildebeest computer.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2013-05-24
Did you try to disable IPv6 at all?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1778105](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1778105)

---

### Post by relic70 on 2013-05-24
> **2F4U said:**
> Did you try to disable IPv6 at all?

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1778105](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1778105)

At suggestion of above link, I went to Newwork Connections and set Wired connection to Ignore IPv6. I'm assuming that was the correct action.

It seems to have helped quite a bit.

The dmesg output now stops at 28.38 with notice that 'eth0: no IPv6 routers present', with no further messages.

Thanks

---

### Post by lemming465 on 2013-05-28
Usually slow boot times are due to some other cause than lack of IPv6 support on-link from your upstream router.  I suspect that setting the wired connection to ignore IPv6 was unrelated to some other change that was the actual boot speed fix, though I could be wrong.  On my own Ubuntu and Redhat Linux hosts boot speed is completely independent of whether I connect them to v4-only, v6-only, or dual-stack subnets.  

Howeve, setting the network connection to ignore IPv6 is a good way of turning it off enough, however.  Bravo for doing it that way, and we recommend that everyone else in the same situation do the same thing.

The meaning of "eth0: no IPv6 routers present" is that no IPv6 ICMPv6 "router advertisement" messages are being seen.  Usually this is because the upstream router is IPv4-only; it is more of an informational warning than an error.  The RA's are the only way to dynamically learn the (link-local fe80::/64) address of an IPv6 router; there is no DHCPv6 option for the router address the way there is in DHCPv4 for v4 gateways.  In fact, in IPv6 whether or not to do DHCPv6 is controlled by flags in the RA's, and is not an independent decision by the client.

---

### Post by relic70 on 2013-06-09
Thanks for the response,

as it turns out I had a number of startup applications that seemed to slow the boot time. These inlcluded the HPLIP, Dropbox and Screenlet applets, as well as Cairo Clock.

I turned them off, except Cairo Clock. I like my Mickey Mouse Cairo Clock.

When I did so, the boot time was like this, using a stop watch.

From pushing the start button on the tower to "enter password" was 35 seconds.

From entering password to full screen with Unity links on left panel was 7 seconds.

I added my favorite screenlet "Google Calendar" which increased the time by 6 seconds.

So, I think the HPLIP and Dropbox startups really slowed down my startup time.

---

