---
title: "16.04 just goes back to log in screen after entering password"
date: 2016-11-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dave-borkowskijr-z on 2016-11-11
So i was away from home for the week and come home.  fired up my desktop 16.04 lts and it wants updates.

I say ok

I wants to reboot 

Ok

not i get to log in, type in my password and the screen flashes 3 times,  then off for a second or two then goes back to enter password.
Luckily I have my 16.04 laptop up and running fine.
Where do I even start?

Thank you,
Dave

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-11-11
dave-borkowskijr-z; Well ....

> 
Where do I even start?


One place to start is at the login screen go to console - key combo ctl+alt+F1
Log in here with credentials.
Now, is a driver loaded ?
```

sudo lshw -C display

```
look in the configuration line .

And also, see what X thinks. Check the Xorg.log file (/var/log/Xorg.0.log) .

Most often times we see this condition as a result of a broken proprietary graphic's driver.

[INDENT][INDENT]your situation could be different
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by dave-borkowskijr-z on 2016-11-11
it's been a long night just getting home,  i found this thread [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342858](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342858)    and i'm working through it.  


Thank you. 

Dave

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-11-11
dave-borkowskijr-z; Hey ;

> 
and i'm working through it. 

what thinks you now ?

[INDENT][INDENT]together we can
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by dave-borkowskijr-z on 2016-11-12
Good morning.

after following the advice in this thread  [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342858](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2342858) I encountered the exact same issue of not having a[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Ubuntu Mono] /etc/X11/xorg.conf.  however reinstalling the nvidia driver worked and the desktop pc is up and running again.
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]Thank you[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][/COLOR]

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2016-11-12
dave-borkowskijr-z; Great !

Pleased you are back up and running :)

[INDENT][INDENT]weren't nuthin
[INDENT][INDENT]but a thing
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

