---
title: "8.04 Hardy Heron SMB / Empty Folders"
date: 2008-06-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by patricksharpe on 2008-06-11
This is my first post so please bear with me: 
     I was having some issues with getting Hardy Heron to see windows shared folders in the most simplistic sense. 1 Windows XP box hosting the share with 2 Ubuntu 8.04 boxes trying to access the share. When trying to navigate to the Windows shared folder via places / networks the Ubuntu boxes could see the windows computer and its shared folder but when accessing it I ended up with an empty folder. This didn't make too much sense to me as in 7.10 everything was working just fine. I've heard, or rather read, a lot on people saying that Hardy broke this ability to navigate properly to Windows shared directories. I still had a hard time believing this to be the case. Luckily I have testing machines for just such scenarios.
     First lets take a look at my network setup:
1. Windows computer is connected via a wireless card (due to distance issues for hard patching)
2. The main router is a Wireless Netgear with a four port switch.
3. 1 port on the wireless was sent to an up link port on a basic     5 port linksys switch.
4. 2 Ports went out from the linksys to the 2 Ubuntu boxes.
     "With this type of setup keep in mind that under certain circumstances when things need to be reset its always a good practice to unplug the simple switch first then the routing device. Leave the router unplugged for 15 seconds then re-plug. Lastly re-plug the simple switches power back in. This will ensure that on a DHCP setup the router will query and hand out IP's in the correct manor, to the proper devices, within the proper hierarchy."
     Not doing this kept me from ever seeing the Windows shared folder and I only really noticed it when I got it all working and then moved one box closer to the router and simply switched its line. Suddenly I was back to not being able to see the Windows shared folder anymore until I rebooted the router. After that I was able to navigate to the shared folder using nautilus. When I saw how it was that I could break it I tried repeating it to make sure it wasn't just coincidence. It was not. I was able to break it and fix it every single time simply by reseting the router.
     This is simply a case where Linux is really touchy when comparing it to the windows based networking that a lot of us are accustomed to. When the issue was ongoing and unresolved I loaded up Virtual Box with Windows XP to see if I couldn't see the share through that method. I was able to see/access the windows share with no issues while Linux was not able to do anything but produce empty folders. So the moral of this story is : when Ubuntu 8.04 doesn't see windows shared folders, try reseting your network while all the PC's are connected together and powered on.  Hopefully this will help someone that has been experiancing the same issues that I have had, short of making too many configuration changes with shoty results.

Note: Keep your Ubuntu box up to date by checking and re-checking the repositories. Try to limit the amount of switching and routing devices on your network to a minimum to reduce the complexity when trying to trouble shoot an issue. Before you make too many complicated configuration changes try dumbing the situation down (stock installs with no mods) to create a good base before trouble shooting. On a Windows non server based file sharing network make sure to create a secondary "passworded" user account that does not have full administrator rights and set it to a group like "users" that is limited to read access only. Add that group to the permissions of the folders that are being shared to maintain a healthy and controlled network environment.

---

