---
title: "11.04 - Unity - Move bar to left side of right monitor - How?"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-05-02
I dual screen. I'm on 11.04. My primary monitor is on the right, with the secondary on the left. With Unity, it likes to sit on the far far left, which is (to be blunt) really stupid in terms of usability with how my setup is.

How can I move it so it's on the left side of the right monitor?

Update - I caught a question/answer session in one of the Ubuntu based IRC channels. I asked about this and they said it's on the radar to be worked on within the next two weeks. Just wanted to update users what I had heard.

---

### Post by jakaspaka on 2011-05-03
O no! Same here. :KS

---

### Post by phillyguy76 on 2011-05-06
i want this feature badly...I am right handed, i dont want to move my mouse all the way to left side to click something..lol..
Also is there way maximize/restore a window by click icon in the unity dock???

---

### Post by waf_ko on 2011-05-11
same problem here the back page button from firefox keeps hiding behind the bar.. howto move the bar to the right??

---

### Post by waf_ko on 2011-05-11
ok I found the problem,
using synaptic (alt+F2+type synaptic) 

install compizconfig settings manager (type right top corner search mark for installation)

when done

using alt+f2 open the compizconfig settings manager (other country translate the config settings manager to you´re own language) 

then on the tab ¨desktop¨ chose ubuntu unity plugin
change reveal mode to ¨right¨ 



THIS IS NOT HELPING FOR ME, can anyone tell the manual instructions to move the bar to the right side of the screen or why it is not possible?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-05-31
Any updates in this department? This left monitor as my main thing is driving me insane.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-31
> **waf_ko said:**
> ok I found the problem,
using synaptic (alt+F2+type synaptic) 

install compizconfig settings manager (type right top corner search mark for installation)

when done

using alt+f2 open the compizconfig settings manager (other country translate the config settings manager to you´re own language) 

then on the tab ¨desktop¨ chose ubuntu unity plugin
change reveal mode to ¨right¨ 



THIS IS NOT HELPING FOR ME, can anyone tell the manual instructions to move the bar to the right side of the screen or why it is not possible?Hi, I am not sure about the 2 monitor issue, but for 1 monitor it can not be moved, I doubt for the 2 monitor issue either but not sure about that.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-31
> **Roasted said:**
> I dual screen. I'm on 11.04. My primary monitor is on the right, with the secondary on the left. With Unity, it likes to sit on the far far left, which is (to be blunt) really stupid in terms of usability with how my setup is.

How can I move it so it's on the left side of the right monitor?

Update - I caught a question/answer session in one of the Ubuntu based IRC channels. I asked about this and they said it's on the radar to be worked on within the next two weeks. Just wanted to update users what I had heard.
Hi, there is not a perfect way to do it,but if I keep my window open by the edge and I followed this set of instructions it stays hidden almost all the time it will only opens when I hit the super key. ) In the Unity plugin, set Reveal to Auto hide and the Reveal edge to None or Disabled. screenshot 6 shows that the edges are disabled so that it will not open ,you can tell because all around the little window it is in red, if it was set to open when the mouse was moved to the edge it would be in green. Every now and then it still opens if the window is not against the left side of the screen even if I use the window not maximized I keep it against the left edge anyway. I never have a problem with it getting stuck so far. You do have to have ccsm installed to change unity plugin settings. Also in synaptic you can install awn launcher or docky and put it where you want it, I put awn on the bottom of my screen installed custom icons put just another menu applet on the awn launcher becasue that one is like the old gnome 2 menu list that was at the top of the screen and it is much handier at the bottom for me.

---

### Post by SteveHillier on 2011-06-06
Guys,
I have a similar problem only not with the symptoms mentioned here.
I have a dual monitor system and use the right hand monitor as my main monitor.  The Unity task bar sits on the left of the right hand monitor ie in the middle of my displays.
I would love my problem to be the same as those of you who are complaining about the task bar being on the far far left.  If it were there it would be out of my way even if it became more cumbersome to use.  Where it is the task bar is sometimes reluctant to be seen particularly if I have Fiery in full screen mode on the right hand monitor.
I will explore the fix methods later on and get back to you.

---

### Post by robert shearer on 2011-06-06
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/668415](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/668415)

see posts #66 & 67.

then see post #2  "wont fix"   and you may have some idea of the problem you are up against.  :(

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-06-06
> **robert shearer said:**
> [https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/668415](https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/668415)

see posts #66 & 67.

then see post #2  "wont fix"   and you may have some idea of the problem you are up against.  :(

To be honest, this is absolutely disgusting. I love Unity, but this is a serious blow. I posted a little tid-bit at the end there.

Someone seriously needs to open their eyes. But hey, at least this is open source. There's always XFCE and other great desktop environments. :popcorn: Just a shame...

---

### Post by dissembly on 2011-06-06
It's something I don't really understand. I think you need to be initiated into some sort of a designers culture to "get" it... all these vague references to "broader design goals", "a particular vision", or to the Gnome panel lacking an "overall feeling". I'm sure there's a community of people to whom these words are part of an overall philosophy and have meaning, but i don't think it's as large as the community of people who love Ubuntu. 

The presence of an unmoveable bar in a particular place on the side of the screen doesn't appeal to me (the screenshots look a bit ugly... on my Windows machines, I go to some effort to avoid having it look like that, and i've never liked the Apple OS layout), but it's *more* alienating reading the defenses of it and thinking, "All these people are part of some particular school-of-design club, and apparently I missed all the classes."

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-06-06
I love Ubuntu, but seriously, that's just laughable at the response.

But it's okay. Ubuntu doesn't = Unity. I am running Gnome Shell at the moment on Ubuntu. Gnome Shell has come a long way, and it's very, very attractive. 

It sucks. I'm torn. I love Unity and Gnome Shell. But this bar thing is just too "lol" to continue using it on my multi monitor systems right now.

---

### Post by SteveHillier on 2011-06-06
Ok guys, I see the issues.
What I don't understand is those who speak of the unity bar being on the far far left - see image (if it works!)
You see I think in hardware terms I have the first monitor on the right and the second monitor on the left, I have switched them round in the monitor display app.  For the most part that makes very little difference but it suits the way I work and it matches the arrangement when I boot in to Windows.
What it is reasonable to expect is that the interface presented to the user is one that can adapt to their way of working.


As a general whinge we have had an industry standard UI for about 25 years now, one which most users are familiar with and is very intuitive, and everybody is now changing this to a 'modern' look.  The rot started with the ribbon interface in Office 2007 and even after 3 years I still find that I can't do in under 10 minutes stuff that I could do without thinking in earlier versions.  This is now spilling over to IE, Fiery.  The layout of pedal in motor vehicles has remained the same to decades so why can't we follow suit?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-06-06
How in the world did you get that layout with the Unity bar on the right monitor?????

---

### Post by Roasted on 2011-06-06
Thank God. I figured out how to make Unity behave properly on other monitors. It's still on the left side of the monitor, which is fine, but it's on the left side of my RIGHT monitor. It all had to do with my nvidia settings. I had to specify which monitor was the main, save to xorg, reboot, and done. Phew.

I'm still rooting to make the Unity bar moveable to any pane though. I still find it a little ridiculous this feature was intentionally left out. Nonetheless, at least Unity is somewhat usable. However, I'm about to install Gnome Shell to give that setup a test drive and see how things go.

---

### Post by blauendonau on 2011-06-06
I suggest using the AWN dock/panel if you don't like the inflexibility of the Unity dock. With a few tweaks it more or less looks exactly like the Unity dock, but much, much more functional and configurable. On my 10.04 I have AWN impersonate Unity quite nicely by setting it up vertically.

---

### Post by SteveHillier on 2011-06-07
> **Roasted said:**
> How in the world did you get that layout with the Unity bar on the right monitor?????
Honestly Roasted, I did not do it intentionally it just happened that way.  I think (although I have not proved it) that it is to do with which monitor is on the primary output from the adapter card.
But if I may I will reiterate my comment in the middle of my last post

**What it is reasonable to expect is that the interface presented to the user is one that can adapt to their way of working.**

---

### Post by Engphyzer on 2011-06-22
I had the opposite problem (unity bar on the left side of my right monitor instead of all the way to the left). Exchanged to cables to the monitors and problem went away. It is fairly annoying though that there isn't an option somewhere so you can choose where you want the bloody bar to go!

---

### Post by Motorhead Kaze on 2011-07-19
Same thing as SteveHillier over on my end. Dual monitors with an over-zealous "Unity" button bar on the left side of my right monitor effectively placing a ridiculous bar in the middle of my desktop. The workaround for this? Pick up the right monitor and put it on the left, and slide the left monitor over to the right. Fixed. 

Now I feel dumb for looking up a fix for this on the forums, but sometimes you need to be smarter than what you're working on.

As for the unity bar, it still sucks. More engineers trying to "fix" things that weren't broken.

---

### Post by Motorhead Kaze on 2011-07-19
.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-07-22
i too wanna move my unity , can any one give me a solution .

---

### Post by unity100 on 2011-08-22
intervening with users' freedom on their DESKTOP is a stupid, stupid thing to do.

people have to stare at their desktops and mess with it ENTIRE day, whether during work, or any other activity while using a computer.

im a recent convert to linux. and i am annoyed with this. i want my damn bar, on the right. i dont know how this can be put more cleanly, elaborately, and strongly than that. 

give users what they want. jacobinism does not work in such things.

---

