---
title: "12.04 x64 Virtual Root Server not booting"
date: 2013-06-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Anselmikus on 2013-06-21
Hey!
I am a bit frustrated with my Ubuntu 12.04 server installtion because everytime I want to reboot my virtual root server it does not do so. It turns off but never comes back.

The only solution to this problem for me is to restore a backup of the server which makes it work again. This is very inconvenient because I am not able to install updates that require a system reboot. Nevertheless a reboot is also not possible when I did not install or change anything after restoring the backup.

I have tried to find a solution to this by googling a lot but I did not find anything. Since I don't want to influence your answers I don't write what I did already (which is not much since I have no clue what to do...). So I would be very grateful if some experienced users could tell me what they would do in such a case!


Notice: I still have access to the server's file system by using a rescue system, which seems to be ubuntu, too.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-06-21
Is there some reason you need to run Server rather than Desktop? Desktop can do everything Server can do, although it needs more memory and CPU.

I don't understand the phrase "virtual root server," and I suspect most people do not understand it.

It can't hurt to describe the computer you are running Ubuntu on: CPU, memory, video card, hard drive partitions.

Perhaps you could be more descriptive than "it never comes back"? "I did A and B and expected C, but this other thing happened instead."

---

### Post by Anselmikus on 2013-06-22
Thanks for your reply, here is a bit more explanation:

"Virtual root" means for me a virtualized server hosted by a provider in a datacenter, which means there is a physical machine that hosts several virtualized servers, that are let to customers. There are different types of virtualization technologies. In my case it is a KVM (kernel-based virtual machine), which means (simplified) that I can use my own kernel for the operating system, fully independet of the operating system the physical machine uses. The virtual server has 1 GB RAM, 1 core of an Intel Core 2 Duo CPU T7700 @ 2.40GHz, 60 GB hard disk space.

Since the virtual server does not have a screen, there is no need for a graphical environment. Furthermore the performance of the virtualized server is much lower than the performance of a real server. That's why I use the server version of Ubuntu. You could now say that Ubuntu is the wrong operating system for this kind of application and there are more suitable operating systems, but I like the way Ubuntu works and using a different operating system is not an option at the moment.

What i did was quite simple. I did *apt-get upgrade* and then *reboot*. I expected the server would reboot but it was impossible to open a ssh connection.

In the meantime I had to use a backup to make the server boot again and provide it's services. After using the backup I tried to do an *apt-get upgrade* again and after upgrading the restart of the system worked fine. So I assume the problem that the server is unable to reboot after a longer period of time (like one month) without a reboot is maybe caused by some user action that is require during the reboot, which I cannot see since the ssh server is not running at this stage.

So maybe you can give me some advice how to make sure that a reboot of the system is done without any user action required during boot time. Do you know which programms could cause this? Is it possible to create a more detailed boot log to find the reason for the problem?

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-06-22
I'm sorry, I don't know enough to offer any advice on this. Perhaps the technical support at your service provider can help.

---

