---
title: "How do I find my DNS servers?"
date: 2009-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PoopyTheJ on 2009-01-14
In windows I can type ipconfig/all to see my DNS servers what can I do in ubuntu to find my primary and secondary DNs servers. Interestingly my Ubuntu network connection is working fine but windows 7 is all fubared and I wanted to try setting a static IP address to see if that fixed it. The problem is I need my DNS servers to do so and I have no idea what they are.

---

### Post by Dr Small on 2009-01-14
If you are behind a router, try using the routers gateway IP for a DNS entry. Alternately, you can just use OpenDNS's DNS servers which are:
```
208.67.222.222
208.67.220.220
```

There's a command out there somewhere to do this, but at present, it is escaping me.

---

### Post by albinootje on 2009-01-14
> **PoopyTheJ said:**
> In windows I can type ipconfig/all to see my DNS servers what can I do in ubuntu to find my primary and secondary DNs servers. Interestingly my Ubuntu network connection is working fine but windows 7 is all fubared and I wanted to try setting a static IP address to see if that fixed it. The problem is I need my DNS servers to do so and I have no idea what they are.

```

cat /etc/resolv.conf

```

And -> Right click on the Network Manager icon -> Connection Information.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-01-15
> **PoopyTheJ said:**
> In windows I can type ipconfig/all to see my DNS servers what can I do in ubuntu to find my primary and secondary DNs servers. Interestingly my Ubuntu network connection is working fine but windows 7 is all fubared and I wanted to try setting a static IP address to see if that fixed it. The problem is I need my DNS servers to do so and I have no idea what they are.

If you use DHCP then these are assigned by your DHCP server - and this can be just your modem/DHCP server's IP address because it can act as a DHCP proxy.

To see what your modem is actually using for DHCP, you need to access that device.

---

### Post by Natanael on 2013-02-20
I just can't believe that theres no simple method in Linux to check currently used DNS server but searching in my router configuration.

"cat /etc/resolv.conf" gives me > # Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.0.1
So it doesn't help.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2013-02-20
If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be helpful.

---

