---
title: "10.04 likewise config locations???"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ofrxnz on 2010-05-05
So, I installed likewise open using "sudo apt-get install likewise-open"

I have successfully joined it to the domain.  

Now, I'm looking for the likewise config file where I can restrict login rights.

The likewise documentation says its here [/etc/likewise/lsassd.conf]("http://www.likewise.com/resources/documentation_library/manuals/open/likewise-open-guide.html#RestrictLogonRights") but that doesn't exist 

i also found a post for an older version of ubuntu saying its in [/etc/security/pam_lwidentity.conf]("http://stackoverflow.com/questions/287408/deny-login-to-linux-machine-for-users-not-in-ad-domain-admins-group") but alas, that file doesn't exist either.  

Anyone know where my mystery file is located? 

As always, many thanks in advance

Adam 

P.S. this is a virgin Ubuntu 10.04 64-bit install with the lampstack, and openssh installed at system installation.  aside from that I have installed VMWare tools and likewise-open.

---

### Post by estyles on 2010-05-05
They decided to make it infinitely more difficult to change config in likewise 5.4.  Also, it doesn't seem to work.

There's a file called "lsassd.reg" that replaces the old lsassd.conf.  You have to modify the .reg file similarly to how you would modify the .conf file.  Then you have to reload the registry.  I believe the command is: "lwregshell import <path to the reg file>", but I'm running in Karmic right now because I haven't been able to get AD functionality working right in Lucid (due to likewise 5.4 being so buggy).

However, when I do that, and then restart, likewise still doesn't seem to honor my changes to its configuration.  Maybe you'll have more luck?

(edit: there's a second way to update the config, which is: "lw-refresh-configuration".  Neither seems to work for me.)

---

### Post by ofrxnz on 2010-05-11
Looks like it was a bug that should be fixed now.....here is the ticket.  If you don't hear back from me assume it worked.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/likewise-open/+bug/575152](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/likewise-open/+bug/575152)

---

### Post by ofrxnz on 2010-05-11
well it wasn't quite as easy as advertised...

first i had to install
sudo apt-get install python-software-properties

so i could install the PPA package.....

once the ppa package was installed  i had to edit /etc/apt/sources.list.d/-likewise-open-lucid.list to 

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net//likewise-open//likewise-open-ppa//ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net//likewise-open//likewise-open-ppa//ubuntu) lucid main
 

now ill see if it actually works

---

### Post by estyles on 2010-05-11
Thanks for keeping us updated.  Let us know if it works.

---

### Post by ofrxnz on 2010-05-12
So...I got it working but it was weird.  

After I updated the application as per the launchpad method i referenced earlier.  It didn't fix the problem so, I kept looking and found that once I had "RequireMembershipOf"=sza:"domain\\group" I could splunk the registry with "sudo lwregshell" and see what was there.  

Once in there I typed

```
cd [HKEY_THIS_MACHINE\Services\lsass\Parameters\Providers\ActiveDirectory\]
```
followed by 

```
ls
```

I could see all the values. but noticed that "RequireMembershipOf" was missing....so I left and eventually found if I typed 

```
sudo lwsm refresh lsass
```

and repeated the registry spelunking (sudo lwregshell).  After that command was entered that the key ("RequireMembershipOf") appeared with no values so after I issued the CD command (above) I could type 

```
set_value RequireMembershipOf "domain\\group"
```

and it accepted the value....a subsequent ls showed the value was set.  

I exited and repeated the refresh command (sudo lwsm refresh lsass)

everything seemed to go fine so, I tried my test users again and IT WORKED....

Now, I don't know exactly what did it.  In any case, it seems like its a stupid combination, but hopefully I can repeat the process in the next short while. 

If anyone can recreate this let me know

Adam

---

