---
title: "Run ddclient.conf at Start-up"
date: 2012-12-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-12-22
I have ddclient.conf running updating my Opendns account.  My /etc/ddclient.conf looks like:

[B]# Configuration file for ddclient generated by debconf
#
# /etc/ddclient.conf
daemon=3600
ssl=yes
protocol=dyndns2
use=web, web=myip.dnsomatic.com
server=updates.dnsomatic.com
login=xxxxx
password=xxxxxx
xxxx[/B]

My ips tends to change my ip on a dialy basis - is it possible to add/change the above so that as well as the daemon=3600 line ddclient.conf also *runs* when I power up my pc?  I have just discovered that if I change the daemon value in /etc/ddclient.conf I also have to change /etc/default/ddclient, mine looks like:

[B]# Configuration for ddclient scripts 
# generated from debconf on Sat Dec 22 09:32:58 GMT 2012
#
# /etc/default/ddclient

# Set to "true" if ddclient should be run every time a new ppp connection is 
# established. This might be useful, if you are using dial-on-demand.
run_ipup="false"

# Set to "true" if ddclient should run in daemon mode
# If this is changed to true, run_ipup must be set to false.
run_daemon="true"

# Set the time interval between the updates of the dynamic DNS name in seconds.
# This option only takes effect if the ddclient runs in daemon mode.
daemon_interval="3600"[/B]

As I have some web site domains that are blocked it would be nice if ddclient ran and updated my new ip each time I booted each morning - rather than waiting for a pre-determined time - i.e. daemon=X.

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-12-22
That's how it should already be working. '3600' (hourly) resets each time the daemon is started or restarted...and the daemon is started when you boot. And each time it starts/restarts, it reads ddclient.conf (or another conf file that you specify).

Are you having a problem with your DNS forwarder not recognizing an updated IP address?

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-12-22
I was having (big) trouble but managed to get it working this afternoon, thanks. I've done a number of tests re setting my external ip and it all works now. I wasn't sure about when deamon kicked in - I was hoping it was also at power up and you have confirmed that.  Thank you for your help.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-12-23
I spoke too soon - ddclient did not update my new ip this morning when I powered up.  DNSomatic shows my service as Opendns and that I'm active.  The last ip update was yesterday (22nd) at 4:30 pm - the ip showing is not what I have today.  What makes **ddclient.conf** actually run?  Should it not be in a folder like init.d, or the equivalent for apps launching at power up?

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-12-25
My problem was to do with not having a script in init.d.  I got ddclient working by following this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1264710](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1264710)

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-12-25
Yes, a file in /etc/init.d (sysvinit) or /etc/init (upstart) is needed for starting a program at boot.

The easy way is to install the ddclient package, which includes the /etc/init.d/ddclient file.

Also see the included /usr/share/doc/ddclient/examples/sample-etc_rc.d_init.d_ddclient.ubuntu

---

