---
title: "9.10 prepare partitions blank"
date: 2009-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MonsterMaxx on 2009-11-08
When I try to install 9.10, the prepare partitions page is blank.

Started off by pulling the linux drive out and using only the windows drive (had plenty of unused space.)

This on the internal ide controller.

Tried a blank drive

Tried a blank drive on the raid controller.

in all cases, the prepare partitions page is completely blank, no options to do anything.  Try 'revert' and that does nothing either.

Install disk does pass integrity check.

Machine is a bit old, it's an AMD XP flavor processor, Asus motherboard.  I've installed Fedora, CentOS, windoze XP, Windoze server 2003 all with no issues so I don't think it's a hardware problem.

When I put all the drives back in it'll dual boot windoze xp / CentOS 5.2 no problem.

??????

---

### Post by 32ftpersecond on 2009-11-09
I first did an 'upgrade' to 9.10; however, after a couple of minor kinks I thought I would just do a clean install. When I run a stable 9.10 disk I get to the fourth stage (prepare partition) as well - but to my surprise the installation process does not recognize ANY hard drives. 

I am currently running a fully partitioned upgraded (as opposed to cleanly installed) version of 9.10 - is this part of the problem.

Any thoughts would be appreciated.

---

### Post by IUViet on 2009-12-25
Hi everybody!

do we have the features to prepare a ubuntu? I don't know how can I prepare it. please give me sugguest. Thanks

---

### Post by A4orce84 on 2010-01-13
Just experienced the same thing, any updates?

---

### Post by Indolence on 2010-01-18
Just to add to the list, i'm having the same problem trying to install ubunu 9.10 on my toshiba netbook.

---

### Post by pizzavesel on 2010-01-29
Same probleme here
This is what i,v postet [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8742987#post8742987").
I realy need it so pleas ca somebody help.

Hllo ther i seem to have the same probleme whit my pc, the hdd is clean and when i right the sudo fdisk -l i get this:

Disk /dev/sda: 320.1GB 320072933376 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 38913 cylinder
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x92443d2b

     Device    Boot    Start      End          Blocks    Id   System
/dev/sda1       *            1  12902   103635283+   7   HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2                     1  38913   208933357+   7   HPFS/NTFS


And the same thing it donsen't show in the Prepare Partitions manager whit ubuntu 9.10 desktop x64 bits paltfom amd x 64 motehrboard asus m2n-mx-se hdd WD 320GB sata 2. The cd pases the test .


The drive is clean and formatet i'v tryde something whit swap but it dose the same thing, i'm new in Linux, but i'm tired of win..... crashes.



EDIT: Problem solved i used the Ubuntu 9.10 Alternate amd x 64 version and it works like a charm. And whit the other version i tryde allmoste evry kinde of partition even 1 lager partiton in all the ways.

---

