---
title: "11.10 Screensaver?"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by galacticaboy on 2011-10-13
Has anyone found the screensaver options yet? I cannot find them... are there even any?

---

### Post by ivarth on 2011-10-13
> **galacticaboy said:**
> Has anyone found the screensaver options yet? I cannot find them... are there even any?

There isn't one. :(

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/839911](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/839911)
[https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-screensaver](https://blueprints.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+spec/desktop-o-screensaver)
[http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/07/28/ubuntu-11-10-development-update-5/](http://fridge.ubuntu.com/2011/07/28/ubuntu-11-10-development-update-5/)

---

### Post by uRock on 2011-10-13
Gnome3 did away with screen savers. I guess they figured screen savers are no longer needed.

---

### Post by galacticaboy on 2011-10-13
> **uRock said:**
> Gnome3 did away with screen savers. I guess they figured screen savers are no longer needed.

Well really there is not since LCD screens don't really ghost the image onto it. But still it is pretty... I want them back.

---

### Post by Musmanno on 2011-10-13
Most people use LCDs not CRTs, so technically I think they're probably right - screensavers aren't necessary. People have grown accustomed to them, however, and many people like them.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-10-13
Installing the xscreensaver package could be want you need. Check this [tutorial]("http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/10/enable-screensavers-in-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/").

Regards.

---

### Post by galacticaboy on 2011-10-13
That worked! Thanks!

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-15
Ok, I did that, but I can't find the one I wanted (I forget its name). It simply showed a slide show of random pictures from my photo library, with very slight pan/zoom applied to each.

---

### Post by Algus on 2011-10-15
> **papibe said:**
> Installing the xscreensaver package could be want you need. Check this [tutorial]("http://www.liberiangeek.net/2011/10/enable-screensavers-in-ubuntu-11-10-oneiric-ocelot/").

Regards.

Thanks for posting this.  Screensavers may not be needed anymore but I still enjoy looking at them!

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-10-15
> **galacticaboy said:**
> Has anyone found the screensaver options yet? I cannot find them... are there even any?

The problem with some of the older savers was that they used a lot of cpu some  of the bad ones used100%. I guess I still like em though.

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-15
Ok, I found the one I was looking for: GLSlideshow (but I wish it labeled the pictures the way Carousel does).

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-10-15
> **shochatd said:**
> Ok, I did that, but I can't find the one I wanted (I forget its name). It simply showed a slide show of random pictures from my photo library, with very slight pan/zoom applied to each.

That would be the GLSlideshow screensaver, included in the [xscreensaver-gl]("apt:xscreensaver-gl") package.

There are some other extra screensaver packages available in repositories as well, you might want to get [rss-glx]("apt:rss-glx"), [xscreensaver-gl-extra]("apt:xscreensaver-gl-extra") and [xscreensaver-screensaver-bsod]("apt:xscreensaver-screensaver-bsod"), at least. Search the repositories for more if those are not enough... :D

---

### Post by shochatd on 2011-10-15
Ok, problem with GLSlideshow: The zoom/pan movement is now jerky. It moves in jerks at about half second intervals. In 11.04 it was smooth. What could that be?

---

### Post by countwalkerj on 2011-10-15
Thanks for all of these replies. This last one pointing out the GLSlideshow saved me from going through 100 different items in the list to try and figure it out. There was another one called photopile but that doesn't do the trick at all. GLSlideshow is the one.

I personally don't care about screensavers but I just put 11.10 on my mother-in-laws netbook (Samsung N150) and told her it could do everything the other guys could do. Guess what was a potential deal breaker for her?... yup... gotta have those precious photos show up on a screensaver. VERY important. Aaaarghh!!! 

Anyway, crisis averted. Ubuntu 11.10 is great. I've even got it working on my old Thinkpad R51. Finally got rid of Xubuntu. 

Thanks people!

---

### Post by williammanda on 2011-10-15
Another approach to removing gnome-screensaver and adding the xscreensaver is to use the software center.

---

