---
title: "14.04 Damaged kernels"
date: 2017-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2017-04-27
A friend has rung me to say that she updated her software from within 14.04, but when she loggs  into the latest installed kernel the keyboard does not react to her typing. I told her how to get into the grub and choose any earlier kernel. This worked and she could use the keyboard, but when she rebooted the grub defaulted to the later kernel. 

I wonder what I should advise her to do next. 

Is the most sensible next step  to reinstall the latest,  damaged,  kernel from within the working kernel. If so what command should she run to ensure that all the kernel  dependencies are installed at the same time?

Robin

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-04-27
The easiest short-term solution is to tell grub to load the older kernel by default.  In /etc/default/grub you will see the line
```
GRUB_DEFAULT=0
```
which tells grub to load the kernel at the top of the list. (As in all things Unix, numbering starts at zero.) If this is a multi-boot system, determining the appropriate number for the older kernel can be a bit difficult, but the relevant file is /boot/grub/grub.cfg.  Each kernel will be referenced with a line like this:
```

menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 4.4.0-64-generic' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os
 $menuentry_id_option 'gnulinux-4.4.0-64-generic-advanced-023e302e-6396-490a-aaab-f10845a312b4' {

```
Count down the number of "menuentry" items (starting from zero), and enter that value in /etc/default/grub.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-04-27
It's not very likely something went wrong during installation of that latest kernel, so reinstall of that kernel, althouth easy to do, won't fix it. It's more plausible that there's a bug in that kernel.

These bugs don't last forever. It shouldn't take too long before there's another kernel upgrade with this bug fixed.

Consider sending a bug report (something I've never actually done myself).

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2017-04-27
Thank you both for reply. I will follow your advice when I try to sort out her machine using remote access software.

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2017-04-27
After making the change to the Grub do I have to run
Sudo update-grub

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-04-28
> **Robbyx said:**
> After making the change to the Grub do I have to run
Sudo update-grub

Yes.

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-04-28
The advice given above is sound. 
I like simple fixes. Could this be limited to only one keyboard (on that machine)? Does it still give you problem if you remote into that machine? Have you tried to change the keyboard? (not saying faulty one but may be this kernel doesn't like that keyboard!). If one of these works, you don't have to mess with grub.
Just a thought.

---

