---
title: "16.04 won't resume from sleep/hibernate"
date: 2016-06-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Shawn_Dellysse on 2016-06-27
I recently installed 16.04, loving it except for when I walk away for more than five or ten minutes or so my computer will go into sleep/hibernate and won't wake up, requiring me to press the reset button. It's a desktop PC hooked up to a 4K tv as a monitor, GTX960 with proprietary drivers, AMD FX-8350 CPU. Xenial is installed to sda3, dual boot with Windows 10. No swap partition/file. Any ideas?

EDIT: If I manage to try to wake up it soon after the screen turns off it comes back on fine. It's somewhere around the five to ten minute mark that it doesn't come back to life.

---

### Post by lbarrick4 on 2016-06-27
You need to go into your settings and change the the time to half an hour 2 hours or never and if you want to type in your pass word or not type it in for the display

---

### Post by Shawn_Dellysse on 2016-06-27
> **lbarrick4 said:**
> You need to go into your settings and change the the time to half an hour 2 hours or never and if you want to type in your pass word or not type it in for the display

Thank you, I found it via ```
System Settings -> Brightness & Lock
``` and disabled screen turn off. This only masks the problem though, as I would like the computer to sleep automatically when not in use to save energy.

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-06-28
You won't save much (if any) just by letting to TV go to standby for some minutes or even hours. The computer itself might but that has nothing to do with monitor settings. And you can always suspend it whenever you like.

If you want to just turn off the TV when you're away then you can keep the "never" setting and simply lock your screen when you're away, in the exact same way you should do in a corporate environment. So, get into the habit of CTRL+ALT+L (Lock) or from the cog wheel menu. It shows the login screen for brief seconds and then fade out quietly. Most modern TV will go into standby mode after X minutes of no signal input.

---

### Post by Shawn_Dellysse on 2016-06-28
I think you misunderstand, I'm not worried about the display turning off, the computer won't wake up from sleep. I'd like my computer to sleep during the day and night when I'm not using it.

---

### Post by X-RED_Tech on 2016-06-28
No, I didn't. I actually provided a simple workaround for that rare problem that happens with certain combinations of Nvidia cards, its drivers and some monitors in certain systems. And a workaround because I don't have clue about what's causing it nor how can that be solved.

The additional comments were only in the hope of making you understand that perhaps you're looking at it in a wrong way and to dispel the misconception about monitors and energy saving.

---

