---
title: "Graphics Problem going from Dapper Drake to Edgy Eft"
date: 2006-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BlackWidow on 2006-11-07
I was running Dapper Drake after going from windows XP.

Everything was going fine and I had gotten everything to work, grate thanks to this forum. 

So Edgy Eft comes, and I was wondering hmm why not upgrade to that.
So I did and every thing was still working fine, but things went a bit slower 
so I figured I just reinstall the whole thing with the new Edgy.

So I downloaded the Edgy ISO burned it on a CD and starting installing it from scratch, formating the drives and all that. 

well that's when my problems started,

I used to run my screen at 1280x1024 now its running at 1024x768 and I cant set it up to 1280x1024 for some reason. 

Then I wanted to put on a screen saver I used to use, but that did not work at all. I then figured out that none of the OpenGL screen savers were working. 

I installed [Automatix]("http://getautomatix.com") and got it to install the Nvidia driver.

but I still don't get my OpenGL screen savers to work. Or setting the proper resolution.

My hardware is:

CPU: 1000MHz
Memory: 1Gb
Graphics: Geforce 2 Pro

Hope some one could please help me with this.
I'm quite new to Linux but have used Windows for years, so try and make it simple pls ;) 

If you need any other information from me let me know what you need and how to get it.


Black Widow

---

### Post by BlackWidow on 2006-11-08
Giving my self a bump hoping to get some help with my problem.

---

### Post by magen on 2006-11-08
I have the same problem with my nvidia geforce ti4200.

---

### Post by BlackWidow on 2006-11-09
> **magen said:**
> I have the same problem with my nvidia geforce ti4200.

Its really strange that it worked on the older version 6.06 Dapper Drake :-k 

Well don't seem like any one read this thread that could help. :( 

Just hope the developers works on it and there might be an update soon
to fix the problem. :mrgreen: 

If not I don't see I have any choice than to reinstall
Dapper Drake. ](*,) 

I don't have a clue on what it could be that is wrong :confused:

---

### Post by g_rael on 2006-11-10
I have my own problem which is different and complex to explain.

Yours, however, may be simpler ?

 sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf

check for resolutions, and be sure they match your card and monitor.
be sure to back up your xorg.conf file above BEFORE saving any changes

to edit in text only mode (if you crash the gui), type it as:  

 sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf (command line editor)

to restart "X" (linux ~windows~ gui), hold [ctrl} and {alt} down and then hit [backspace] key.

restart with:

 startx

print this out first... harder to check if you get stuck without the gui !

And if you get stuck with my problem:

 any opened window visually overwrites the top task bar and won't minimise, workspace icons at bottom right of screen lost...

then I'm looking for a solution !

---

### Post by BlackWidow on 2006-11-10
Hey, thanks for reading my post :) 
Love you're Avatar ;) 


Well I did as you said I edited the xorg.conf file from:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildd@rothera)  Thu Jan  5 15:32:31 UTC 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "no"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 51.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA Corporation NV15 [GeForce2 GTS/Pro]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA Corporation NV15 [GeForce2 GTS/Pro]"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

I put inn the "1280x1024" inn the modes.
inn front of "1024x768" but that did not seem to help :-k 

I can see that my graphic card is correct since that is a GeForce2 Pro
 
Not sure what the rest is that I'm looking at or what to change it to, 
that's why I posted the whole xorg.conf file so maybe you could help me out :D

---

### Post by BlackWidow on 2006-11-15
*bump* Any one :confused:

---

### Post by dpm on 2006-11-15
I believe the problem you might have had is that on the upgrade from Dapper to Edgy your nvidia propietary driver (the "nvidia" line on your /etc/X11/xorg.conf) was changed to the open source nvidia driver ("nv").

In order to check what driver you've got loaded at the moment, you can either look at /etc/xorg.conf and see if you've got an "nvidia" (propietary driver) or an "nv" (open source) line, or open a terminal window and type:

```
lsmod | grep nv
```

there you will see either an 'nvidia' or 'nv' driver listed.

And anyway, the proprietary nvidia driver is available on the ubuntu repositories (the package is linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17-10-generic IIRC), so there is no need to use Automatix, you can install it from the repos. I always tend to stick to the standard methods, especially when you don't know what scripts a program is executing and what it is doing to your computer.

Anyhow, having had a quick look at your /etc/X11/xorg.conf, everything seems ok, you are using the nvidia proprietary driver and I'm guessing you entered the new modes correctly. Could you please post your modified xorg.conf (not inline but as an attachment to your post, please).

---

### Post by BlackWidow on 2006-11-16
Ok tried to attach the file.
I had to add .txt to upload it to this forum.

---

### Post by BlackWidow on 2006-11-16
Ok did the:  lsmod | grep nv

got this message:

nvidia               3933932  8 
agpgart                34888  2 nvidia,via_agp

---

### Post by dpm on 2006-11-16
Ok, that confirmed you've got the proprietary nvidia driver now.

I'm afraid I cannot help you further now, the xorg.conf looks ok to me, so I do not understand why the "1280x1024" modes are not used.

On the other hand, if you installed the driver with Automatix, I haven't got a clue which drivers it installed and how it installed them...

---

### Post by BlackWidow on 2006-11-16
> **desp said:**
> Ok, that confirmed you've got the proprietary nvidia driver now.

I'm afraid I cannot help you further now, the xorg.conf looks ok to me, so I do not understand why the "1280x1024" modes are not used.

On the other hand, if you installed the driver with Automatix, I haven't got a clue which drivers it installed and how it installed them...

Ok, thanks for trying to help me :)

---

