---
title: "11.04 (and 10.10) problems"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mlepage on 2011-04-28
I have a Lenovo W500 ThinkPad. It is running XP on first partition, then Ubuntu. I've tried both 10.10, 11.04 beta 2, and now 11.04 release.

With the release I just installed, it seemed OK till reboot-after-install, at which point nothing came up. I rebooted several times and just got errors and kernel panics in the ATI video driver. I also saw a lot of these messages:

"udevd[80]: worker [XXX] did not accept message -1 (Connection refused), kill it"
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/647404](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/647404)

I had download updates on, I'm trying again with a clean install without updates. (Although, I said don't download while installing, and it says it is downloading language packs...?)

Now, I also had issues with 10.10, where it would intermittently boot and fail to get video, I'd just be at a tty, and have to reboot and try again. I found it usually got video if I had just booted Windows (XP Pro SP3) beforehand, and not otherwise. So what's going on there? Something up with the actual video card?

Maybe Unity is the issue? I want to run Gnome anyways, is there a way I can specify that during the install?

At any rate, if I can't get 11.04 working properly, I'll have to run 10.10, which I didn't want to do. I'm starting from scratch and wish to start from 11.04 if at all possible.

---

### Post by mlepage on 2011-04-28
I should mention, relative to the udevd issues, that although this is not a netbook I do have a shiny new SSD installed.

---

### Post by mlepage on 2011-04-28
OK installed natty again, fresh. Said don't download updates but it seemed to do so anyways, took a long time.

Rebooted after install, it's just stuck at a purple screen. No text, no graphics, no mouse pointer.

How do I get to a tty? I tried ALT-F1 and CTRL-ALT-F1, still just purple.

Help?

---

