---
title: "Firefox addons not working"
date: 2008-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dannytatom on 2008-04-26
After removing firefox 3, and going back to firefox 2, I can't install addons.  I get the following error:

```

Firefox could not install the file at

https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/downloads/file/20176/del.icio.us_bookmarks-1.5.44-fx.xpi

because: Unexpected installation error
Review the Error Console log for more details.
-203

```

It's on a fresh install of HH.  ;o

Any ideas? :/

---

### Post by dannytatom on 2008-04-26
anyone? ;<

---

### Post by Ghostknyght on 2008-04-29
Im having this exact same problem.  I went from using the Firefox 3 beta with my usual addons not being supported, to Firefox two with the above error, and now using swiftweasel, the same error.

edit: The error code is (for swift)

 Error: installLocation has no properties
Source File: file:///usr/local/swiftweasel/components/nsExtensionManager.js
Line: 3938

Edit again: Im not even going to pretend like I know what Im doing but it seems that when I installed swiftweasel, various folders and whatnot were not created.  

When I run swiftweasel through the console I get this....

root@GhostDesk:~# swiftweasel
file check failed
5huckg9h.default
# Mozilla User Preferences

/* Do not edit this file.
 *
 * If you make changes to this file while the application is running,
 * the changes will be overwritten when the application exits.
 *
 * To make a manual change to preferences, you can visit the URL about:config
 * For more information, see [http://www.mozilla.org/unix/customizing.html#prefs](http://www.mozilla.org/unix/customizing.html#prefs)
 */

user_pref("app.update.lastUpdateTime.addon-background-update-timer", 1209479231);
user_pref("app.update.lastUpdateTime.background-update-timer", 1209479230);
user_pref("app.update.lastUpdateTime.blocklist-background-update-timer", 1209479230);
user_pref("app.update.lastUpdateTime.microsummary-generator-update-timer", 1209479231);
user_pref("app.update.lastUpdateTime.search-engine-update-timer", 1209479232);
user_pref("browser.migration.version", 1);
user_pref("browser.places.createdSmartBookmarks", true);
user_pref("browser.places.importBookmarksHTML", false);
user_pref("browser.places.importDefaults", false);
user_pref("browser.places.leftPaneFolderId", -1);
user_pref("browser.places.migratePostDataAnnotations", false);
user_pref("browser.places.updateRecentTagsUri", false);
user_pref("browser.tabs.forceHide", false);
user_pref("extensions.enabledItems", "langpack-en-GB@xulrunner-1.9.ubuntu.com:1.9b5,langpack-en-GB@firefox-3.0.ubuntu.com:3.0b5,ubufox@ubuntu.com:0.5,{972ce4c6-7e08-4474-a285-3208198ce6fd}:2.0");
user_pref("extensions.lastAppVersion", "3.0b5");
user_pref("network.cookie.prefsMigrated", true);
user_pref("urlclassifier.keyupdatetime.https://sb-ssl.google.com/safebrowsing/newkey", 1212071233);
[B]mv: cannot stat `/prefs.js': No such file or directory
sed: can't read /root/.mozilla/swiftweasel/200142.js: No such file or directory
[/B]

The bolded areas are the ones that lead me to believe that something went wrong.
This (the above) does not occur when I run firefox or firefox 3beta.

---

### Post by itmanvn on 2008-04-29
both of you'll need this :D 
[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/6543](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/6543)

---

### Post by kelvingeorge on 2008-04-29
> **dannytatom said:**
> After removing firefox 3, and going back to firefox 2, I can't install addons.  I get the following error:

```

Firefox could not install the file at

https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/downloads/file/20176/del.icio.us_bookmarks-1.5.44-fx.xpi

because: Unexpected installation error
Review the Error Console log for more details.
-203

```

It's on a fresh install of HH.  ;o

Any ideas? :/
I solved my issue by going to "/home/username here/" and deleted that .mozilla file. I also deleted firefox folder in "/home/username". To see this file I had to press Ctrl+h to see hidden folders. The file was somehow replaced by the 2.0 version I tried to install earlier. I was then able to use addons. Find out from the experts here if thats acceptable fix. I am a noob to this and may have gotten lucky and not mess up my pc.

---

### Post by jashin on 2008-06-01
I also had this problem after downgrading from Firefox3 beta to Firefox2. After deleting /home/username/.mozilla/**firefox** directory the problem disapeared. But this way, you will loose all your firefox settings (bookmarks, etc.).

---

