---
title: "9.04 suddenly won't boot - symbol lookup error"
date: 2009-10-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gilbum on 2009-10-27
Think this is my first post, but I couldn't find any help in the old threads so here you go...


A few days ago I wiped my HDD on my old acer laptop (had ubuntu 8.04 on it) and did a fresh install of 9.04.  Ran beautifully for a couple of days, and then I went to boot it up today and can't get past the loading screen.

I had messed around with some basic software before shutting it down the day before.  Put on firefox 3.5, updated the default music player (forget what it's called, and it asked for an restart, which I clicked to do later), and I installed Amarok (whatever the latest version is).

Everything shut down nicely IIRC and I put it away for the night.

SO... here's what happens when I boot:
POST is fine, loads up grub.  Hits the ubuntu loading screen and hangs for a minute and finally disapears and tells me:

-----------------------
mountall: symbol lookup error: mountall: undefined symbol: udev_monitor_filter_add_match_subsytem_devtype

init: mountall main process (306) terminated with status 127
-----------------------

so I restart and enter the grub menu.  I try booting from 
->  version 9.04 kernel 12.6.28-16 (recovery)
It does the same thing (minus the loading screen) and tells me:
-----------------------
mountall: symbol lookup error: mountall: undefined symbol: udev_monitor_filter_add_match_subsytem_devtype

init: mountall main process (312) terminated with status 127

[    6.000117] Clocksource tsc unstable (delta = -401497742 ns)
------------------------

restart and try the 9.04 kernel 12.6.28-11 (recovery) version:
same thing, but the process is (757) and the clocksource delta is -245324616ns

------------------------
9.04 kernel 12.6.28-11 gives me same thing as the original 12.6.28-16 (load screen this time) with process (737) being the only difference in the msg.


Hope this makes sense to someone because I'm a wee bit lost.  I am at school atm and have no access to a liveCD for a few hours.  Any advice?  Luckily there's nothing *too* important on the laptop so if it needs to be cleared out I'm not going to lose any sleep.

*edit* - ran a memtest and everything checked out.

**edit** - forgot that I had also installed the skype beta for 8.04 -32bit doubt if that's helpful though.

---

### Post by Gilbum on 2009-10-27
Anyone know how I should even start to approach the problem?  This seems like a pretty serious issue.

---

### Post by Mitch9654 on 2009-10-27
Boot from CD, open terminal, type in ```
sudo hwclock --set --date MM/DD/YYYY
```

(ex. 10/27/09 )

type ```
hwclock --hwtosys
```

and afterwards check ```
date
```

Mitch9654

---

### Post by Gilbum on 2009-10-27
k got it booted up, set the date but only the superuser can change the system clock.  how do i get superuser privlages with liveCD?

---

### Post by Gilbum on 2009-10-27
well, i managed to log myself in with the liveCD and adjust the clock on the task bar to set the system time. I still wasn't allowed to adjust it in the terminal.

Check the bios and everything looks right.  However I get the same problems and still can't boot the system.  Same exact error messages.

This is really frustrating me.

---

### Post by Mitch9654 on 2009-10-28
whoops!

its ```
sudo hwclock --hwtosys
```

---

### Post by sikosis on 2009-11-03
actually it's ...

sudo hwclock -hctosys

---

### Post by Mitch9654 on 2009-11-06
aha! right

whoops

mitch9654

the forum that I got it from is faulty...

---

### Post by elewis33 on 2009-12-17
> **Mitch9654 said:**
> Boot from CD, open terminal, type in ```
sudo hwclock --set --date MM/DD/YYYY
```(ex. 10/27/09 )

type ```
hwclock --hwtosys
```and afterwards check ```
date
```Mitch9654

What seems to be the problem with so many people having bad experiences with the auto-update from 9.04 to 9.10? 

I just ran the auto-update the other day and ever since the system will not boot. It give a similar error as that noted by the OP. Ran through the hwclock change and rebooted but to no avail. This is really frustrating. I was really liking Ubuntu. This experience is starting to change my mind. I've spent more time trying to fix this in the past 2 days than I really care to admit.

Earl

---

### Post by alfu on 2010-01-01
I get a process 351/status 127 error before the bootup halt.

I was having problems with the Network Manager: it would grab the network fine on startup, but after toggling "Enable Wireless" or a Suspend, it could not pick it up again without a re-boot.

So I decided in Applications/Add-Remove/ to check the 'Mark for Re-installation' checkbox, hoping to pull in version 0.71.  This marked for removal a module called "Ubuntu desktop", and I couldn't detach it from the Network Manager.  I clicked 'Apply' anyway: bad move.

I can still see everything in my filesystem when I boot from the 9.04 live CD, but get permission denials when I try to save files to another medium before re-installing 9.04.

Right now I am trying to pick my user data out of all the cryptically-named subdirectories, god only knows where it is all sequestered, or whether I am really permitted to save it.

There is a program "Deja Dup Backup Utility" I could have used before I got into this mess, but user and system data are so intertwined in Ubuntu, that a restore (of the whole filesystem) from that program would probably just restore the boot problem as well.

Like elewis33, "I was really liking Ubuntu. This experience is starting to change my mind"!  At the very minimum, the install disk should include decent backup/restore functionality on the disk space taken up by the 17 games included.  Is this system really designed by 13-year olds?!?

---

### Post by tonywhelan on 2010-02-23
> **elewis33 said:**
> What seems to be the problem with so many people having bad experiences with the auto-update from 9.04 to 9.10? 

I just ran the auto-update the other day and ever since the system will not boot. It give a similar error as that noted by the OP. Ran through the hwclock change and rebooted but to no avail. This is really frustrating. I was really liking Ubuntu. This experience is starting to change my mind. I've spent more time trying to fix this in the past 2 days than I really care to admit.

Earl

I have had the same issue after upgrading 9.04 to 9.10 today on a Pentium 4 box which unfortunately is my mail/web/ftp/fax server with RAID-1 array and full disk encryption. I spent a lot of time spent setting it up last year and now its dead.

I can boot and the encryption passphrase is accepted but then the system hangs with the mountall error as described by the OP. 

I can't get at the file system using a live CD because the bl**dy RAID array  won't let me near them. I'm about to waste the rest of my week on this, I can see. One lesson might be DON'T use RAID when I rebuild.
:evil:

---

### Post by Marafarrico on 2010-05-01
I had the same problem, when upgrading to 9.10. Anyone knows the solution. I don't want lo loose all the configurations I had in all the programz I was using.
Tks in advance.

---

### Post by mendezmh on 2010-05-06
Hi, after dealing with the solutions already published I failed to solve the problem. For me the solution was to boot from a live-cd with the option "Recover broken system" and run: 

```
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```[COLOR=#000000]
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Marafarrico on 2010-05-06
For me the same worked. After dist-upgrade I sill had some problems with the mouse and network, but finally it worked (I started in recovery mode again with network and I updated, but I don't know exactly what worked).
Good luck for you all.
M.

ps: Just one remark. After some more than 2 years using ubuntu I still wouldn't recommend it to windows users without having at least a contact of someone knowing it well. (The same would apply for windows but it's more easy to find that "friend" who understands a bit). For non English speakers things are even harder...But "we" are getting close!

---

