---
title: ".srt text files that are in greek are not displayed properly"
date: 2016-12-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gzarif on 2016-12-25
Hello!

  I'm running ubuntu 16.04 and when I download subtitles for movies,  extract the zip file using file roller (archive manager) and then attempt to open the .srt file with gedit I  see just gibberish of this form: 


  1 00:04:17,052 --> 00:04:18,963 ÊáëÞ ãç.

  2 00:04:19,452 --> 00:04:20,851 ¹ôáí êÜðïôå.


  I tried opening the file with jedit and LibreOffice Writer but that  doesn't work either. On gedit, instead of just double clicking the file  in order to open it, I tried opening gedit first and then browsing to my  file having set the character encoding to greek and the text language to  greek also but that didn't seem to help. I also followed the  instructions I found in a question on AskUbuntu on a similar matter ([http://askubuntu.com/questions/443273/cannot-read-filenames-that-are-in-utf8-encoding-greek-characters)]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/443273/cannot-read-filenames-that-are-in-utf8-encoding-greek-characters"))  but that made no difference at all. I really don't know where the  problem is, in gedit or file roller. Even more strangely, when I was  running 14.04 I remember following the procedure I described in the  beginning and everything worked perfectly. I'm relatively new to linux  and I can perform only basic things using the terminal. I would  appreciate it if someone could help me out. Thanks!

P.S. I include a link to a greek subtitle file like the ones mentioned above. It is a link to google drive where you can download it from:
[https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0pf9fBS7SjgbEUxcC1pWTduYVU/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B0pf9fBS7SjgbEUxcC1pWTduYVU/view?usp=sharing)

---

### Post by papibe on 2016-12-25
Hi gzarif. Welcome to the forum ):P

Try this:
[LIST]
[*]Open gedit (blank no file).
[*]Open the file from the menu: File -> Open. You'll get a dialog to open the file. Do not open the file just yet.
[*]Go to the foot of the dialog and open the list option for Character Encoding (where it says 'Automatically Detected').
[*]Select 'Add or Remove...'. A new dialog will open.
[*]Look for 'Greek WINDOWS-1253' from the left list, and press the '+' button so that it gets added to the right list.
[*]Press the 'Apply' button on the upper left. You'll get back to the first dialog (the one is for selecting the file).
[*]Now force the encode of the file by selecting 'WINDOWS-1253' from the list BEFORE opening the file, and finally open the file.
[*]You should be able to see the file on Greek language now.
[/LIST]
So far, all of this has been to be able to properly read the file. In order to convert it to a more useful format, do this:
[LIST]
[*]File -> Save As...
[*]Choose a new name (just to not overwrite the file).
[*]Select UTF-8 Character Encoding BEFORE actually saving the file.
[*]Save the file.
[/LIST]
Most editors and players will be able to auto detect the latter format.

Hope it helps. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by gzarif on 2016-12-25
Thank you so much! It worked like a charm! I appreciate the detailed answer and the time you sacrificed to help me. Have a nice day!

---

