---
title: "Ubuntu 9.10 + NTFS-Config and Files missing from NTFS partition"
date: 2010-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by suneblack on 2010-04-22
Hello World,
  First off let me say that I love working with Ubuntu. It's a great OS to learn Linux on. Now on to my problem.

  I have a laptop that dual boots. Ubuntu 9.10 x64 and Windows 7 Ultimate x64. Been working just fine. I was using NTFS-Config to auto mount the Win7 partition during startup of Ubuntu. It has been running fine. I am able to move files between the linux partition and the NTFS partition with no problem. Now I've come across a problem. I big problem. Just this week I installed VirtualBox onto Ubuntu. I started creating virtual machines. 6 in all (3 Win 2k3, 1 2k8 and 1 Win7). I was saving the virtual machines to the NTFS drive as this was by far my largest drive. I used a directory titled "virtualbox" under the c:/users/public directory. This setup was working great. Was able to get my vm's patched and up to date. Created several snapshots. Basically I was a happy camper. 

  Last night I booted into Windows 7. OS started fine. I was just surfing the web. After that I rebooted the system and entered Ubuntu and started Virtualbox. I tried to start a vm and it complained that the virtual harddrive was missing. I checked to make sure that the path was correct for the virtual drive and discovered that the entire virtualbox directory that I created on the NTFS partion was gone!!! Everything else was in place and intact including music and large video files that I had downloaded to the Ubuntu partion and moved the the NTFS partion.

  What in the world happened????? Can I save these virtual machines???? Should I abandon using NTFS-Config. This is somewhat critical since I had took sometime to create this test lab and to have it disappear from simply booting into Windows 7 is crazy.

  Please help. I have looked up similar posts but no answers. 

Regards,
Sunny

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2010-04-22
(1) I don't use ntfs-config or any of it's brethren , but lets take a look at what it's done. If it has been working and now it's not it's not likely ntfs-config's fault but you never know with these things:

Open **Terminal**
Type **cat /etc/fstab**

(2) If you boot into Win7 are the vm's also missing or is this a linux only phenomenon.

(3) I'm not familiar with Win7 either I'm afraid but make sure that while you were in WIn7 that c:/users/public hasn't been inadvertently hidden or restricted or encrypted or compressed in some way.

---

### Post by suneblack on 2010-04-22
> **Morbius1 said:**
> (1) I don't use ntfs-config or any of it's brethren , but lets take a look at what it's done. If it has been working and now it's not it's not likely ntfs-config's fault but you never know with these things:

Open **Terminal**
Type **cat /etc/fstab**

(2) If you boot into Win7 are the vm's also missing or is this a linux only phenomenon.

(3) I'm not familiar with Win7 either I'm afraid but make sure that while you were in WIn7 that c:/users/public hasn't been inadvertently hidden or restricted or encrypted or compressed in some way.

/etc/fstab contents:
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=3b7976d8-e3bb-4131-bc4a-49faf135ddef / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=cd0224d4-9f07-4a71-8853-fb50748ad63e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/OS ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

2) When I boot into Windows 7 they are missing there as well.

3) Nothing was changed in Windows 7.

The files that are missing are .vdi files created by virtual box. I had everything up and running. I installed virtualbox, installed 6 virtual machines and updated the virtual machines. Everything was running smooth. I logged into my Windows 7 system just to use the internet with my girl. When I restarted and went back into Ubuntu the files were gone. Just those files. All other files that I transferred over to the ntfs share are still there and are accessible within both Win 7 and Ubuntu.

The virtualbox .vdi files are quite large. Over 4gb in size with the largest being just under 10gb.

I created a directory named "virtual box" in the c:\users\public directory (windows path). But I've created other directories and moved files and folders back in forth for months without issue. This is the first time that I've encountered this issue and it is a huge problem!!

Thanks for any help that you guys can give

---

### Post by suneblack on 2010-04-23
After more snooping around my ntfs drive I've noticed that any 'large' file has disappeared. 6 virtual machine .vdi files have all disappeared as well as a 1.8 gb iso file. Also it seems like the only files (large and small) that were affected were all existed in a directory on the ntfs share that I created from within Ubuntu. The directory name was "virtual box". I stored my images and virtual drives in this directory. I tried to recover the lost files from within Ubuntu using ntfsundelete. It could not find them even though the disk space was still in use. I finally said "f-it" and ran an chkdisk and defrag from within Windows 7 (dual boot system. Ubuntu 9.10 and Windows 7) in order to reclaim the "lost" space from the files that disappeared.

Does anyone have a clue as to what happened??? Are the files to large to work with???

---

### Post by cedeon on 2010-10-10
I'd just like to say that i have just experienced the exact same problem.  I have a dual boxed (Win XP/ Ubuntu) laptop with a large NTFS partition that held my VirtualBox .vdi files.  Everything was fine until i booted into Windows and came back to ubuntu to find my .vdi files were missing.  I've tried several undelete utilities but its like they were never there!  Very strange.
I'm looking for fixes at the moment and will update this thread if i find out more.  If it helps, i also had 2 large (>20GB) truecrypt files in the same folder and luckily they have remained.  They were created from within Windows though, so maybe theres an issue with linux ntfs with large files like you suggested? or some crazy conspiracy with windows deleting large linux created ntfs files upon booting into windows?

---

### Post by conualfy on 2011-05-05
Something similar happened to me, but not with image files, but avi files. They were saved from Ubuntu in the ntfs partition (win 7 x64). I say it after booting the win 7, a few minutes before (in Ubuntu 11.4) the files were there.

---

### Post by hoxbug on 2011-11-08
Sorry to bump an old thread but this seems to happen to me as well.
I think this is just a NTFS partition problem since I have had this kind of thing happen to me in just windows without any kind of linux installed on it. I have been using linux now for long time and all my partitions on my pc are ext3 and never had files disappear but my external hard drives are in NTFS so as to be able to share stuff with other people. 

I am only booting linux on my pc
So i go into my NTFS external hard drive to look for a movie that I put there a long time ago. to my horror there is nothing in the movies folder. where there show be over 150 gb. NOW WTF :confused:

I try just for kind of a test to see if i copy something in the folder and unmount the drive then remount if the files would still be there. Well I did not even need to unmount because once i close the window with the file open and go back into it, it just disappears. I am waiting to save up enough money and get a external hard drive that i can partition into ext3 or 4 and then copy all that is left on this NTFS partition.

Oh one last thing as others say the space still shows up as being used up. Because I have seen this problem happening in both windows and linux i suspect it might just be a NTFS partition problem. Hopefully i wont lose much more.

---

### Post by conualfy on 2011-11-08
In my case I think there was an old bug with the NTFS driver, but since then I upgraded the Ubuntu (I now use 11.10, Oneiric Ocelot) and I never saw that bug again.

I also met another partition limitation I forgot about: old windows FAT partitions cannot accept large files; I think that FAT32 can only work with files smaller than 4GB. Try not to forget this when you format your external hard disks and want to use them for DVD, BluRay or other large files.

---

