---
title: "10.04 slow boot time"
date: 2010-10-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-01
I've been having issues since updating. 10.04 shuts down really fast, but whenever I start up it takes an extra 30 seconds or so. It shows a repeating message about "MAC is in deep sleep!" until it starts up normally. Often it doesn't show the repeating message, but instead just shows "Starting up..." for about the same amount of time until bootup continues. Sometimes is shows some of the message after that. Can anyone tell me what is wrong?I've attached a photo.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-02
bump

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-02
help please?

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-03
bump

---

### Post by nikefalcon on 2010-10-03
Maybe you should try reporting a bug on Launchpad.(launchpad.net)
Its *probably* some bug in plymouth.

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-04
I think this might be related to my wireless card. There's a few bugs listed, here's one:

[http://bugzilla.intellinuxwireless.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1651](http://bugzilla.intellinuxwireless.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1651)

Could this be related? I have had intermittent problems with my wireless internet in the past, sometimes requiring a restart.

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-05
perhaps?

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-05
Try booting a live cd for me, press esc when the purple screen with white icons appears real early in the boot. You should see a menu screen. Press f6 and enable acpi=off. Then push enter again to boot Try Ubuntu. Does this issue happen? (Also check if it happens with a normal live cd session, if not then this whole thing is academic. :D)

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-05
I'll make a live CD later today. However, I already have the "noapic" kernal option enabled and it's not helping. Is that the same?

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-05
No, it isn't.

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-07
I tried booting from the CD a few times with and without "noapic." In both cases it started normal but stuck on the purple loading screen (with the orange/white dots) for about 90 seconds before booting.

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-11
Any further suggestions anyone? It's getting even worse now, sometimes it takes up to 2-4 minutes to boot up (not counting the time taken to load GRUB). Not very fast for the version aiming for a 10 second boot time.

Please help.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-11
Follow the instructions here. Do not upload the boot chart here, just link us to it. (Perhaps use image shack)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BootCharting](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BootCharting)

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-11
Here is the chart. It didn't boot up terribly slow this time (it just did the 20-30 second pause before the purple loading screen). It just started taking extra long on the boot screen sometimes. The orange/white dot loading "bar" usually only fills up once or twice, but sometimes it gets stuck there for a few minutes.

[http://i183.photobucket.com/albums/x312/LifeEnemy/paul-laptop-lucid-20101011-2.png](http://i183.photobucket.com/albums/x312/LifeEnemy/paul-laptop-lucid-20101011-2.png)

If nothing pops out there I can upload one from a super-long boot when it happens next.

Thanks for the help, really! This boot time thing is killing me, especially since sleep doesn't work as well as it did in 9.04, and my roommate keeps rubbing it in that his laptop boots super fast.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-11
Darn it still uploads small. I forget how to make it so it isnt. :/

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-11
I tried upscaling it to 300 dpi with GIMP but it still DLs small. How else could I do it?

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-12
Archive it and upload to mediafire?

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-12
[http://rapidshare.com/files/424701770/paul-laptop-lucid-20101012-2.png](http://rapidshare.com/files/424701770/paul-laptop-lucid-20101012-2.png)

Seems to keep the resolution. Let me know if it works or not.

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-12
Ureadahead seem to be the culprit. Try removing it and see if that improves boot time. It will ask to remove ubuntu minimal but thats fine, its just a metapackage. Please note though if you ever do an upgrade to a new ubuntu, reinstall ubuntu-minimal. After your done remove boot chart so it stops running at boot.
```
sudo apt-get remove ureadahead
```

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-12
I removed ureadahead and rebooted my machine a few times. It had an effect, but I don't think it shortened the boot much, if any.

It still shows the "starting up" screen, but in the middle of it there's an error message about ureadahead missing, then it shows a cursor for about 10 seconds before the purple loading screen. The new part is that it hangs on a black screen after the loading screen for about 30 seconds.

I attached the most recent bootchart just in case it helps.

[http://rapidshare.com/files/424713640/paul-laptop-lucid-20101012-5.png](http://rapidshare.com/files/424713640/paul-laptop-lucid-20101012-5.png)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-12
Yeah it is slower without ureadahead. I would reinstall it. I shall also keep digging. (ubuntu-minimal)

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-12
Thanks for helping me so much! Good luck digging :)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-12
Nothing sticks out except Plymouth and the ntfs mount. If the boot is really only around 40-50 seconds it is not too bad. Does it really take around 2 mins?

---

### Post by LifeEnemy on 2010-10-13
I tried removing a line I added to my fstab to auto-mount my windows partition but it didn't seem to help. I thought it might because it was a recent change.

It hasn't done a long boot up for a few days. It might be only when the HD is cold. I'll keep an eye on it. I can live with a 40-50 second boot, though. It's not worth all the effort. Thanks for putting up with me so far :)

---

### Post by NightwishFan on 2010-10-13
I wish I could be of more help. Also note ureadahead has to profile the boot at times.

---

