---
title: "10.04 X/Ubuntu Fail Boot!!!"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by toshin696 on 2010-05-01
Hi guys. I'm noob XP... Look...

I've installed Xubuntu 10.04 from Live Usb/ISO. All normal. The live boot works fine and same for install process, but once installed and reboot for first time Xubuntu not boot. The screen go black after grub and still there for ever...

Well, i tried with Ubuntu and the same...

After I tried a Live boot from usb with ubuntu 9.10 and... All normal, so i install and reboot as usually... and LOOK BOOT NORMALY... (?) ...  So i Update from 9.10 to 10.04. The process is long, but all works normaly when all tediuos process is done comes the reboot and ... DEAD... Yeah once again 10.04 refuses to boot... even I tried boot the old kernel, but LOOK is DEAD too...

Anyone have an idea, please???

I've an Acer Aspire One D250...

One more thing... Yes i tried the recovery mode from newest kernel and appear the letters but the boot fail stucking in the HD' partition recognition (i think XP)... and the same for the olds kernels T-T

--- Sorry my english is crappy XD ---

-----------------------------------

POLERGEIST BOOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!

for some reason... i leave the partition with Ubuntu alone for 2 hours meanwhile i run XP and go back with hope... AND... BOOT UP!!! I writting from Chrome in Ubuntu 10.04!!!

POLTERGEIST BOOT!!!!!!!!!!!! LIKE POLTERGEIST BATTERY CHARGING!!!!!! JJEJEJEJE I'm Scary because for the next boot... maybe Ubuntu refuses boot again -_-*

---

### Post by bepis on 2010-05-03
Hi, I have exactly the same problem. I have an Acer Aspire D250 and I downloaded Ubuntu Netbook 10.4. Installation goes fine (automatic partitioning using FULL hard disk) but when I have to reboot, the screen stays black with the white cursor flashing...any chance to have Ubuntu running?

---

### Post by zariok on 2010-05-03
I'm having the same issue.

It first occurred from a 9.10->10.04 upgrade which "failed" with a message about the system could be unstable.

I then downloaded, today, the 10.04 x86_64 desktop image and installed over the existing partition.  Everything installed and the desktop was running normally.

After reboot I receive the fancy blinking cursor...

---

### Post by DomesDKG on 2010-05-03
There is a solution to this posted in the known bugs sticky, here's the page on sourceforge.
[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector)

---

### Post by sevenX on 2010-05-05
> **DomesDKG said:**
> There is a solution to this posted in the known bugs sticky, here's the page on sourceforge.
[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Boot_Sector)

This page is for:
** Symptoms**

 One of the following happens when trying to boot a Windows:  grub  menu appears, boots to  grub prompt, immediate reboot, 



but from what I gather toshin696 seems to have the blinking cursor issue? NO GRUB MENU, NO BOOT TO GRUB PROMPT, NO IMMEDIATE REBOOT. He just seems to see a blinking cursor and wait.... and wait...        . . and wait.  Because this is the same problem I'm having and can not for the life of me find help on these forums. This link provided does not appear to be solution for the problem.

---

### Post by sevenX on 2010-05-05
OK so after i installed again for like the 10th time... and rebooted.. A PHANTOM BOOT TOO!! it just booted wtf? so its all good right? WRONG! UPDATE right away in update manager and reboot... Than back to BLINKING (exploited deleted) SCREEN!

---

### Post by chenson13 on 2010-05-06
This same issue is occurring for me. 

Acer AspireOne D250 with 2GB memory

Methods:
        10.04 32bit install from the "install" option not the live CD
        10.04 32bit install from the "install" option contained in the live CD
        10.04 32bit upgrade from Karmak

Result: 
        blank screen with flashing cursor in the corner. 

I do not think this is the same issue as referenced in the link to sourceforge. I know the CD is good as I've used it to build a few other machines already with no issues. I'm not a newb but I'm also not well versed in troubleshooting this. I know that I cannot flip over to any of the ALT screens so that makes me think this is not an X issue. Not at that level of the OS. This is either boot/grub or something in OS hanging up. I have been unable to reproduce this on any other laptop/desktop. 

I see that in the hardware guides that the AcerOne D150 is listed as supporting 10.04 yet the D250 is not. Obviously we are seeing why but I'd love some details or insight. 

--Charles

---

### Post by chenson13 on 2010-05-06
UPDATE: No resolution. Just more info. 

Reloaded 9.04 with no problems. They both install fine. Went back to a flat install (not upgrade) of 10.04 and still see the same. So it's not hardware and it's not the disc. 

That said, this is way too fast to have anything to do with the OS. I think it is grub/boot/partition/etc. related as the blank screen is almost immediate. 

Also:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9230964#post9230964](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9230964#post9230964)

Appears to be a similar (not same, he's saying grub comes up)  issue with UNR 10.04 on D250. Kameks whole "AC Power" comments are a little confusing and I'm unable to reproduce them. 

I have some Debian gurus (seriously) at the office and I will ask them for help tomorrow. Hopefully this is a simple fix with a live CD if you know what commands to run to debug the issue. I'll keep everyone posted. 

--Charles

---

