---
title: "Help activating coolbits/using nvclock?"
date: 2011-09-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bryan334 on 2011-09-04
I'm trying to over clock my NVIDIA Geforce 7300 SE/7200 GS video card. I have the "NVIDIA  accelerated graphics driver (version current) [Recommended]" driver, which I installed through the system/administration/additional drivers. I went through a tutorial,  <http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=387019> that tells me how to activate "coolbits" by adding an extra line in the "xorg.conf" file. Like this..

[PHP]# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 270.41.06  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-07.nvidia.com)  Mon Apr 18 15:15:12 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option         "Coolbits" "1" 
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/PHP]I had to add Option "Coolbits" "1" under section "device". But when I went back to the NVIDIA X server settings, nothing changed.

Another attempt I made at over clocking my video card was with nvclock. I installed it and tried to over clock both the gpu clock and memory clock, but nothing changed either. I tried this.. 

[PHP]Requested core clock:         500.000 MHz
Warning using experimental NV4x lowlevel clock adjustment, if you encounter strange issues, issue a bugreport.

Adjusted low-level clocks on a nVidia Geforce 7300SE
Memory clock:     337.500 MHz
GPU clock:     499.500 MHz
[/PHP]But nothing that I do in this program changes the clock speeds, and for some reason it thinks that 337mhz is the maximum for the memory clock, and 562mhz is the maximum for the gpu clock. When I had windows 7 I downloaded ntune and I could easily over clock the gpu to 620 MHz and memory to 710 MHz. Any help please?

---

### Post by KEE on 2011-11-04
good question... different problem with the coolbits option enabled. did you get your problem fixed?

---

### Post by Bryan334 on 2011-11-11
I solved the problem with cool bits. I was forgetting to restart.. I'll update with more details later...

---

### Post by CiaoCiao on 2011-11-11
I had a similar problem with a different card, GTX560 Fermi model.  I have this PowerMizer setting option (fixed frequency) and as a result this Fermi model card cannot be overclocked. 

So every time I enabled the coolbits option I did not get the Frequency screen.  Option 4/5 would give me the fan control.

Maybe your card is in a similar scenario?

reference [link]("https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/NVIDIA")...

FYI running nvclock hangs my entire system, so I couldn't get anything useful out of it....

The link I provided states that flashing the bios in a win32 environment is the only alternative... 

Hope this helps....

---

### Post by efflandt on 2011-11-11
I guess Powermiser is why I could never get coolbits OC'ing my GT430.

But at least CiaoCiao's link got vdpau set up and working for me (I think) which I don't think I ever had enabled before. With Powermiser set on Adaptive, my PC cpu is mostly idling at minimum speed and video card is at medium speed with no temperature rise playing 720p or 1080p video files with vlc.

Note that if you make any changes to xorg.conf I don't think you really need to reboot. Just log out of X and back in which restarts X (I know that works to recognize added or changed display devices).

---

