---
title: "6.10 KDE Splash Screen"
date: 2007-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RealG187 on 2007-10-30
Yeah so you know when you log in and KDE starts and it the first dialogue box says stuff like "Initializing System Services", "Loading the Desktop" and the last one says "KDE is up an running"

Well I went to the "K" menu and changed it and then when I log in it hangs!

From the K meu I went to system settings and under *Look and Feel* I went to splas screen and changed it from the default "Kubuntu" to "Moodin KDE" by Christian Leh.

When I log in the screen is blue and does nothing! If I hold the power button I see my icons but the power cuts and then it's too late.

Is there an error w/ this splash screen or splash screens in general? I got in as I could start the Gnome session which works.


So how can I reset the log in splash screen from Gnome, I notice under seesions there is a "Gnome Failsafe" but I dont see KDE failsafe.

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2007-10-30
png.gif snapshot1.png (168.5 KB)  	

^^^ The System Settings

png.gif snapshot2.png (290.7 KB)

^^^ The splash screen selector

---

### Post by thelocust on 2007-10-30
you need to install moodin look it up in synaptics/aptitude.

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2007-10-30
> **thelocust said:**
> you need to install moodin look it up in synaptics/aptitude.

So it froze since it was trying to load a spash screen that isnt installed?

---

### Post by thelocust on 2007-10-30
Sorry I didn't explain I was in a hurry. The splash screen your trying to use runs off the moodin program that I don't think is installed by default. kind of like loading an Emerald theme when you don't have compiz installed.

---

### Post by RealG187 on 2007-10-31
Why  does it show up then? are they all like this? How doI get back in to KDE,is there a way to reset my settings?

I think the splash screen shows but it cuts out after that. ANd the icons show when I start to shut it down, no matter how long I wait,its annoyinging by the time they come up it's too late!

---

