---
title: "Problem with monitor"
date: 2007-10-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PelleK on 2007-10-27
Hi, I am very new to Ubuntu and everything having to do with Linux at all, since I went from WinXP to Ubuntu less than a week ago. While trying to make Wine work (just as a test with explorer.exe), I got the same error message over and over again. I googled it and found out it was related to the driver of the screen (all the xorg-stuff and that). I tried to install stuff from the Restricted Drivers Manager and Synaptics Package Manager, but it didn't really work, so I stumbled over this program called "Envy" at [http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html). I used it and it completely screwed up my graphics. Now I can only use 640x480 resolution in Gnome Safe Mode, and mostly that doesn't work either. I tried running dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg from the console in recovery mode a couple of times; even tried with the vesa driver, but I can only view the login screen to Ubuntu with the proper resoultion (1280x800). Once I log in, the screen goes crazy with the colors and automatically logs out when not running safe mode. I also tried reinstalling all of the xserver and xorg related packages with synaptics, but it didn't have any effect either. I can start Ubuntu with the my LiveCD with proper resolution. And I tried to look at the monitor settings while using the LiveCD but it just said generic plug 'n' play screen, a setting I had already tried while configuring xorg.conf. There are something that looks like "backups" of older xorg.conf files in /etc/X11 but I don't know how to replace one of them with the current xorg.conf. Have tried chown, but it didn't work.

I am using a Medion laptop with Ubuntu 7.10 x86_64. I have ATI Radeon Xpress 200M 3d card and AMD Turion 64 processor.

How can I use 1280x800 again?

I am very, very new to the whole Linux/Ubuntu thing, so please try explaining it in a simple way. Your help will be very much appreciated!

Here are the contents of my xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"dk"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	28-49
	VertRefresh	43-72
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc Radeon XPRESS 200M 5955 (PCIE)"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by PelleK on 2007-10-28
Solved some of it by running
rm -rf .gnome .gnome2 .gconf .gconfd .metacity

---

