---
title: "10.04 doesn't work on Desktop"
date: 2010-09-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wonderkins on 2010-09-28
I couldn't find others with this problem...

I've been trying to install Ubuntu 10.04 on my desktop.  I can get to the option screen where I choose to either install or try without installing.  When I choose either of these, my monitor shuts off, saying there is no signal.  I've tried with a downloaded copy and an official disc from Canonical.  Both end in the same result.  So I went in to the 'other options' and checked the nomodeset, and then booted in.  It worked and I was able to install.  Install finished, I restarted, tried booting into the freshly install OS, and the monitor shuts off, again.

I can use all Ubuntu's up through 9.10, which works wonderfully.  I suppose I could just stick with 9.10, but eventually it will be unsupported, right?  I thought maybe my pc is just too old, but I run Windows 7 on a second hard drive and it works great.

I've even tried an upgrade from 9.10 to 10.04.  I get the same issue.  So I'm at a loss.  I do wonder if it's my video card, but that doesn't make sense.  Can someone help me?

pc info:

Motherboard:  Asus
Processor:  AMD FX-60 2.6 (939 socket)
Video Card:  EVGA GT 240

note:  I've had 10.04 installed with an HP/Asus motherboard of same socket(939).  I had an Nvidia 7300GT video card installed.  If that setup worked, I would think the better setup would work as well if not better.  Sorry for length of post.

---

### Post by robsoles on 2010-09-28
Welcome to UF.

Please look at this closed thread and tell me if it helps: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1456886](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1456886)

---

### Post by sendblink23 on 2010-09-28
I got an idea did you try... fresh install 9.10... then after rebooting install the Restricted Driver for your Nvidia... I imagine afterwards it ask to reboot..   do so.. then do the upgrade to 10.04

have you tried that?

because I get the no screen supported issue of my monitor(shuts off) when fresh install of 10.04(but ofcourse I own ATI, not Nvidia, but i assume it can be similar situation), but if I do the 9.10 upgrade to 10.04 as I've just mentioned (installing the video driver before upgrading) I don't have the monitor issue after upgrading

if you have... then sorry for not being more helpful :P

---

