---
title: "10.04 XServer randomly dies,  hangs at &quot;Checking Battery State... [OK]&quot;"
date: 2010-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iDunk on 2010-05-16
I have an older desktop (Dell) that has a P4 processor, 512 meg RAM, and a 40 GB hard drive.  I did a fresh install of 10.04 that completed successfully.  When booted up, things appear fine.  Eventually, all of the graphics go away, and the last line I see is "Checking Battery State...[OK]" (o.0  This is a desktop mind you) and then it hangs.  Keyboard becomes totally unresponsive, and it seems to require a full reset.    I've done an apt-get upgrade and somewhere around 100 packages were upgraded.  Any other ideas?

Thanks much.  :)

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-16
Are you using a Nvidia card by chance?

---

### Post by iDunk on 2010-05-16
Not to my knowledge no.  It is an Optiplex GX80 or something like that.  I believe it uses Intel Integrated Graphics.

---

### Post by -humanaut- on 2010-05-16
when it kills X hit ctrl+alt+f1 Login then type startx once your logged in go to the Ubuntu Software Center or Synaptic and search for i915 or Intel i915 and download the driver that should fix the login problem.

---

### Post by iDunk on 2010-05-16
I'm sorry.  I should have been much more descriptive.  I can login fine.  I can usually run Chrome or whatever for a while and then it all dies and I get the aforementioned error.

---

### Post by nzokdat on 2010-08-16
hey there guys, i know its been awhile since the alst post, but i havent been able to workaroung this, i start up and all it says is checking battery state ....ok. i havent been able to get anything with the startx command nothing works, i am using a geforce card. any help guys?:p

---

### Post by nmgraywiz on 2010-09-18
I too am having this same type of problem.  Here's a little info on my problem..  First of all..   Shuttle SB51G computer. had originally installed 8.10, and have upgraded up the line to 10.04 now.  has always worked fine, until I upgraded to 10.04.  Here's a detailed description.

Computer runs great, everything works. My mom will be playing games on yahoo, and randomly Screen flashes,  a little black box appears in the center of the screen, then throws up Checking BAttery State [ok]

That message appears to be the finaly boot up messages that are sent to console during boot..  you just don't see them until x-server crashes and temporarily goes back to the console display.  At this point, the screen goes black, and begins to flash..  I will get a little flash, then black, then about 2 seconds later, flash, then black...   

Hitting <ctrl>-<alt>-1 or anything like that does nothing. I do not get the login screen.  Have found no way to reach a command prompt once it goes into this mode..   

I know the system is not totally dead because if I press and release the power button, the system throws up the 5 dot Ubuntu screen, and does an orderly shutdown of the system..   Once I power back up, the system is fine...  but it intermittently keeps doing this for no apparent reason at all..  My mom is not computer expert.. she just wants to play games.. some days it happens only once, and on other days..  happens every few minutes..  

Any ideas would be appreciated.  I'm quite sure it's related to X but have not found any glaring causes.

Thanks in advance for your help..

L8

The Gray Wizard
(aka: Matt)

---

