---
title: "10.04 64bit Stops responding"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zipperback on 2010-05-02
I've been using 10.04 since just before the release candidate, currently I've installed a clean full install of 10.04 and I've been experiencing random nonresponse times with my system.

I could just be sitting here reading some email or visiting a web page and suddenly the system will just stop responding.

When this happens nothing responds. No mouse, no keyboard, nothing. It's a total lockup.

This problem wasn't happening with any of the Ubuntu releases before 10.04 but something with 10.04 doesn't seem to like my system.

My system is an AMD X4 Phenom processor with 7GB of ram, ATI video, etc. It's a fairly nice system and this nonresponse issue is really starting to annoy me.

Is anyone else having a similar issue? I'm going to download the 32bit version and install it to see if the problem happens there too.

Not sure on how to track down what could be happening as it really look like its random at this point. Pretty strange and very frustrating.

I suppose if I can't figure it out, I can just reinstall 9.10 for now.

If anyone has any suggestions I'd be happy to try them out.

- zipperback
:popcorn:

---

### Post by zipperback on 2010-05-03
I did a clean install of Kubuntu 10.04 64bit version and it seems to be doing the same thing as well. I suppose if I can't figure this out, I'll just reinstall 9.10 as it works perfectly, and then try 10.10 when it comes out to see if they resolved the issue by then.

- zipperback
:popcorn:

---

### Post by jackflamer on 2010-05-26
I have the same problem. It locks up randomly. I found it more likely to happen during package installation.

Is it a known issue, or just a few random cases?

---

### Post by obscaenvs on 2010-05-27
I experience much the same thing in Ubuntu 10.04 32-bit, mostly when surfing (I spend a lot of time learning Haskell now from the web now). Actually I can still *mark* text in Firefox, but not close any applications or do any menu actions, for any program or any Gnome-menu. Changing desktop is still possible via the Ctrl-Alt-left arrow/right arrow. Sometimes, after a while things go back to normal just like that, sometimes I kill Mozilla and the terminal I have open (just bash running there, no ghci or other things) and wait, and *then* things go back to normal...sometimes I get so sick of waiting I just reboot, Windows-style. I hope somebody takes this seriously, even though the behaviour seems hard to replicate. I get this behaviour 1-2 times a day. 

Edit: I *have *had this behaviour running other apps as well, not just Mozilla Firefox.

---

### Post by Meesterarend on 2010-05-27
same issue though it seems to be connected to runing duel screens.

I run 64bit 10.04 on amd athlon II 1.5 gb ram and  
nvidia 8400  with propriatory drivers installed

also my screens run 
1280x1024 main screen
and 640x480 secondary

X usually crashes with the mouse on the linking edge
Disabeling the secondary screen fixes the problem.

---

### Post by kokonobs on 2010-05-27
Same issue being discussed here. Ask for your thread to be merged or something.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787)

---

