---
title: "7.10 Security Updates Unavailable?!?!?!"
date: 2008-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by irunwithknives on 2008-04-30
i just did a fresh install of Ubuntu 7.10, and apparently the security updates are unavailable, so what should I do?

---

### Post by irunwithknives on 2008-04-30
why does no one ever respond to my posts?????
grrrr

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2008-04-30
> **irunwithknives said:**
> why does no one ever respond to my posts?????
grrrr

Barely 20 minutes and you get angry? Get over yourself.

If you did a FRESH install, you got all the latest stuff.

---

### Post by vishzilla on 2008-04-30
I guess the servers are down. Many users are having the same issue not only for 7.10 but for 8.04 as well, I am getting a timeout error for apt-get update. You gotta wait for some time

---

### Post by irunwithknives on 2008-05-01
all right
thanks

---

### Post by irunwithknives on 2008-05-01
and to you, I have made another post or two in the last day or so that no one responded too, either, as well as helped a friend who is new to ubuntu make a post regarding his non-working audio card, which hasnt gotten any responses in two days, so Im slightly irritated.

---

### Post by vishzilla on 2008-05-01
hmmm...sometimes it happens. Bump the thread to gain attention

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2008-05-01
> **vishzilla said:**
> hmmm...sometimes it happens. Bump the thread to gain attention

But wait at least 30 minutes.....:)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-05-01
> **irunwithknives said:**
> and to you, I have made another post or two in the last day or so that no one responded too, either, as well as helped a friend who is new to ubuntu make a post regarding his non-working audio card, which hasnt gotten any responses in two days, so Im slightly irritated.

Why exactly are you irritated? Is it because a flock of volunteers has not left aside whatever they were doing and rushed to answer your question in 20 minutes? Is it because you think you deserve more after helping a friend? Is it because you think that since you've signed up someone has to provide support? :rolleyes: I just don't get it.

---

