---
title: "9.04 - Major problems after auto package update"
date: 2009-09-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hedix on 2009-09-17
Hi,

I have installed Ubuntu 9.04 on my laptop and had no problems for couple of months. Unfortunately after auto update (about a week ago) followed by a restart I have encountered several problems:
Touch pad freezes after login (USB mouse works fine)
Applications/Places/System menus doesn't have icons any more
Desktop shows no icons or wallpaper
Keyboard does not perform "Repeat Keys" function any more

These are the obvious issues I have found so far. 
I have unsuccessfully tried to search for answers on the web. Hopefully I can get help here because I really don't want to do clean reinstall.

Please shout if you require any particular log files. I'm pretty new to Ubuntu but I'm not afraid of command line so any kinds of suggestions are welcome ;)

Thank you in advance!

---

### Post by Soul-Sing on 2009-09-17
Did you enabled proposed/backports repos.?

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-09-17
any idea if your computer crashed during updates or if one of them went wrong?  also, i doubt this will be the solution but maybe you can load up an earlier kernel before ubuntu boots up.  also, try going into recovery mode and check the packages

---

### Post by GenePayne on 2009-09-17
Just a thought, but you could check to see if your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file changed with the update.

First go to /etc/X11,
```
cd /etc/X11
```
then list files with details,
```
ls -la
```
and see if the file xorg.conf was recently modified (around the time of your update; a week ago?). If so, then there will probably be a file xorg.conf.bak??? or similar that was saved at the same time, before xorg.conf was modified. If so, diff the 2 files
```
diff xorg.conf xorg.conf.bak
```
and see what the differences are. This may help you with your touchpad and keyboard issue, not sure about the other two.

---

### Post by hedix on 2009-09-17
Thank you all for your help!

leoquant : I am using "Main server" for updates.

schmidtbag : loading older kernel or checking the packages gave no results :(

GenePayne : xorg.conf was not changed and no differences were found.

I should also mention that in the login screen everything, including touch-pad and keyboard, works fine. Problems occur only when desktop loads. There is something wrong with desktop environment. I just need to figure out what ;)

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-09-17
hmmmm.... that changes a LOT.  i think you messed with your account in a bad way.  it might be a little annoying, but just try re-creating your account.  like make a new one and start fresh, that could fix it

---

### Post by GenePayne on 2009-09-17
Are you using compiz for advanced display features?

---

### Post by hedix on 2009-09-18
> **schmidtbag said:**
> hmmmm.... that changes a LOT.  i think you messed with your account in a bad way.  it might be a little annoying, but just try re-creating your account.  like make a new one and start fresh, that could fix it


When I try to login as root or guest the desktop doesn't start at all! After login only wallpaper loads up and that is it. Btw it's a little bit odd that wallpaper shows up as it doesn't on my normal user account :)

---

### Post by hedix on 2009-09-18
> **GenePayne said:**
> Are you using compiz for advanced display features?

Yes I do. Do you think this could be the source of all my pain? :) I will try to disable it as soon as I get back home. Will update my post when it's done.

Thanks for the idea ;)

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-09-18
i'm getting an impression that maybe nautilus and/or gnome-panel are not installed, or they just have a problem.  if you have any way of running a terminal when you log in, try typing those in and see if anything happens.  i remember one time i updated and neither of those showed up, but luckily, i set terminal to start with a key command and that saved me

---

### Post by GenePayne on 2009-09-18
> **hedix said:**
> Yes I do. Do you think this could be the source of all my pain? :) 

I think it's a suspect, sure. Don't get me wrong, I really like compiz and continue to use it. But I have had to disable a few of the individual display modules. For example, the "window decorations" module used to make the title bars of all my windows disappear. Another module interfered with my mouse behavior, and yet another module sort of "hijacked" certain lower-case keys on my keyboard so I literally had to tYpe liKe thiS when sending emails, etc. I had to figure out by trial-and-error which ones were causing the problem, and then disable them or change their configuration.

Maybe you could try just disabling all compiz modules/features, and then rebooting.

---

### Post by hedix on 2009-09-21
> **schmidtbag said:**
> i'm getting an impression that maybe nautilus and/or gnome-panel are not installed, or they just have a problem.  if you have any way of running a terminal when you log in, try typing those in and see if anything happens.  i remember one time i updated and neither of those showed up, but luckily, i set terminal to start with a key command and that saved me

In the main user account nautilus and gnome-panel are already running. Unfortunately on other accounts I cannot start anything including terminal. I guess my mostly feared clean reinstall is inevitable :/ I'm sitting with broken OS to long now.

Thank you all for help!

---

### Post by hedix on 2009-09-21
Found whole pack of errors in .xsession-errors (attached). I'm trying to identify if any of those are critical and/or related to my problem.

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-09-22
i would just try re-creating your account and see if that fixes anything.  it seems to me some part of your resumable session is damaged in some way but its not like i know that much about this.  but, creating a new account is still easier than reinstalling, especially if you transfer the right files

---

### Post by TR14RC3 on 2009-09-22
I think that Compiz might have something to do with your problem or if you are running Emerald theme manager. To disable compiz just go to: system---> Preferences-----> Appearance------> Visual Effects  and click the dot next to Extra. Its the one enables the desktop effects in ubuntu. That will disable all compiz plugins. Then try logging out and back in. If that does not work then try a reboot (turn completely off then back on, not click restart) and see what happens. If nothing then we try another solution.

---

### Post by hedix on 2009-09-23
> **schmidtbag said:**
> i would just try re-creating your account and see if that fixes anything.  it seems to me some part of your resumable session is damaged in some way but its not like i know that much about this.  but, creating a new account is still easier than reinstalling, especially if you transfer the right files


I have tried recreating account and as i said in my previous post any other accounts except my main one starts with an empty desktop. No panels no nothing. I cannot start nautilus or gnome-panel manually as there is no way for me to start up a terminal.
As main account acts differently then the others there has to be something different in the way they are configured. Following this logic I have run the "diff -r" on home directories and hopefully will be able to find what is causing the problems. Maybe it is a stupid idea but it's the best I can think of at the moment :)

---

### Post by hedix on 2009-09-23
> **TR14RC3 said:**
> I think that Compiz might have something to do with your problem or if you are running Emerald theme manager. To disable compiz just go to: system---> Preferences-----> Appearance------> Visual Effects  and click the dot next to Extra. Its the one enables the desktop effects in ubuntu. That will disable all compiz plugins. Then try logging out and back in. If that does not work then try a reboot (turn completely off then back on, not click restart) and see what happens. If nothing then we try another solution.

I have disabled compiz and that made no difference what so ever :(

---

### Post by schmidtbag on 2009-09-23
i've had a similar issue when upgrading from 8.10 to 9.04, and if you don't have a keyboard shortcut to start terminal or at least a run command, you're going to have to be creative to figure out how to start the desktop and panels or else reinstall.  honestly, reinstalling is typically the easiest choice, but i'd wait until 9.10 comes out before you decide to do that, unless you really can't wait

---

