---
title: "Wierd Graphics after log in.."
date: 2008-06-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Darksoulice on 2008-06-13
Well I am a completely new to Ubuntu, and now kinda stuck with it. My friend told me to try it, so I downloaded it burned it to a cd and ended up formatting my hard drive and only having Ubuntu, instead of of partitioning it to have Windows XP and Ubuntu.. So now that I'm stuck with Ubuntu... here is my problem.

Once the boot up screen is done, I end up seeing the bottom of the screen is the last screen when i shut down, and the top is black with weird writing at the top.

So I do Ctrl+Alt F1 or F2 which ever works I forget, and then type in sudo gdm, no clue what it does, but it works sometimes. It warns me that its already running and then I type it in agian, and a blue screen comes up with yes or no. I hit yes and then i get a box that pops up. It saids that "A system is already running on X:0" or something and then i click okay and im at the login screen. This happens every time I start up my computer, I get past the boot screen and then I get the bottom screen as my desktop (from the last time i shut down) and the top half a black screen with chinese writing on top. Also I can move and see my cursor but my desktop on the bottom doesnt move. Please help. Now that I am stuck with windows instead of just trying it, I would like it to work :).

Thanks all


Also, this is after the boot screen appears. I just get a black screen with my cursor.

---

### Post by Darksoulice on 2008-06-13
This might help..

When I do the sudo gdm twice.. this pops up

"There already seems to be an x server running on display :0. Should another display number be tried? I click yes and it works, brings me to the login screen and I can login.. 

But next boot up I have to do the same thing, anyway to make this permanent so I don't have to do it again and again everytime i boot up.

---

### Post by HoTMetaL on 2008-06-13
You may want to post the contents of your X server configuration file (/etc/X11/xorg.conf) by using a terminal window to open it with gedit, and posting your results in this thread.

```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

You may also want to check your screen and graphics card settings in the 'Screens and Graphics Preferences' utility and disable any unused screens that are listed. From terminal:

```
gksu displayconfig-gtk
```

---

### Post by Darksoulice on 2008-06-13
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

