---
title: "9.10 - dmraid treats drives as array when they aren't"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stoanhart on 2009-11-01
Hi everyone,

I have three SATA hard drives: 250GB, 1TB, 250GB. The first 250GB drive has a Win7 partition, my Ubuntu partition, and a storage partition. The 1 TB drive has one ext3 partition for videos, and the final 250GB drive has several partitions including WinXP and an older Ubuntu install. 

I recently did a fresh install of 9.04 32-bit on the first 250 GB hard drive and yesterday I ran the upgrade to 9.10. When I restarted, I was dropped in the initramfs root shell, because the UUID of the root device doesn't exist. The only drive that was visible was the 1TB drive, even though dmesg showed that the other drives were detected. So, now I am in the 9.10 64 bit LiveCD, and the same issue persists. However, when I opened GParted, I was able to find the problem:

9.10 incorrectly treats the two 250 GB hard drives as a RAID array! GParted shows a single unpartitioned 500 GB array at "/dev/mapper/nvidia_afhbcjea". I can still see the real partitions in GParted, but I can not read any information from them (like the Label) since the /dev/sd[a/c]* nodes are never created due to the RAID situation.

The strange thing is, my Gigabyte GA-P55-UD4P motherboard has no NVidia chipsets - it is an Intel P55. AFAIK, there is no NVidia hardware present - why is the raid array being treated like an NVidia array?

So, can someone tell me how to disable dmraid? This is a huge show stopper, and I'm worried that the raid software will destroy my partitions (though that hasn't happened yet - the Win7 partition boots fine). Ideally, there would be some kernel boot argument I could pass in from GRUB to disable dmraid - I don't even want it running. I have already disabled RAID from the BIOS, but this hasn't helped.

Thanks a lot everyone!

---

### Post by ryeguy146 on 2009-11-02
I'm having this same problem. I've disabled RAID in my BIOS. No other operating systems are seeing these drives as an array other than Ubuntu. I've read a few other threads that suggested uninstalling dmraid from the liveCD and attempting the install, but I've yet to succeed. I'm getting a bit frustrated with this as I've never had an issue with this before. Arch plays nicely. Slackware plays nicely. Ubuntu Jaunty and Hardy play nicely, where's Karmic?

Relevant links:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309197&highlight=disable+raid](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1309197&highlight=disable+raid)

WOA! On a fluke, I popped open the package manager and double checked to make sure that dmraid was indeed gone. It was not. I have no idea why it had returned as I am positive that I had uninstalled it as suggested by the link I posted. I did have to install ubiquity for the installation link to work, perhaps dmraid was installed as a dependency or some such. In any case, removing dmraid and libdmraid solved my problems.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-11-02
You aren't alone, brother.

Check my post in this thread. #9. I took a screenshot of the partition editor in 9.04 and 9.10 to show the differences.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306184](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1306184)

I'm sticking with 9.04 until I'm positive this issue can be fixed. But I can't help but to beg the obvious question... If I'm having this issue BEFORE even installing Ubuntu from the LiveCD, yet Ubuntu doesn't re-release LiveCD images with updated fixes right on the LiveCD, how in the world am I supposed to EVER be able to install 9.10?

---

### Post by stoanhart on 2009-11-03
Damn, I was hoping not to have to go back to 9.04. I found the 2.6.28 kernel to not work very well with the Core i5 CPU - I constantly get programs stuck in deadlock waiting on a futex. I really want a new kernel. Am I going to have to go non-Ubuntu for one iteration? :shock:

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-11-03
> **stoanhart said:**
> Damn, I was hoping not to have to go back to 9.04. I found the 2.6.28 kernel to not work very well with the Core i5 CPU - I constantly get programs stuck in deadlock waiting on a futex. I really want a new kernel. Am I going to have to go non-Ubuntu for one iteration? :shock:

I don't see how you would have better luck on a different distro, unless there's a different distro out there that's running the newer kernel, which I kind of doubt.

---

### Post by stoanhart on 2009-11-03
I've seen in other threads from people that have this issues that it only occurs with Ubuntu, so if I want a 2.8.31 kernel, I may have to go to another distro for one iteration.

I'm going to submit an official bug, since I don't see one yet on Launchpad.

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-11-03
Yeah, it's possible, I guess. I would just bet on it being unlikely. However it seems Karmic has a few weird qwirks to it, so I guess anything is possible in the grand scheme of things.

I'm sticking with 9.04 for now, and already anxiously awaiting the next version to come, mostly because the next one is an LTS. I wonder if anything with Karmic will be fixed or if it'll be put on the back burner and their focus be switched to Lucid.

---

### Post by AteZ on 2009-11-05
I have the same problem and found a temporary solution. It is not a permanent solution yet, but i can access my raid5 set again:

First i disabled my wrong raid set that dmraid detected by disabling all dmraid raid set that are not in use:

```
sudo dmraid -an -v
```

Then i could configure my mdadm raid set again by using this command:

```
sudo mdadm --assemble --scan --verbose
```

Now my raid set showed up again and i am able to mount it.
Still i have find a way to make this a permanent solution.

[a bug is filed already]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/dmraid/+bug/442735")

---

### Post by AteZ on 2009-11-10
This should be the solution:

Remove the old still existing raid metadata from the harddisk.
scrub the raid metadata from the disks with dmraid -E, or the bios utility.

make sure you backup your data first and see if it works for you.

---

