---
title: "12.04 LTS to 14.04L TS 64 bit"
date: 2014-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wegmarsno on 2014-04-01
Hi All,  

1)   Will 12.04 LTS update directly to 14.04 LTS without having to go separately through intermediate 12.10,13.04,13.10 stages ?

2)    If I install 14.04 LTS Final Beta now,using " update-manager,"will I have to re-install the Final Release or will the Beta "pick up" any future updates negating the need to have to install the Final Release ?

Thanks in anticipation to any responders.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-04-01
LTS has always been able to upgrade to the next LTS.
And if you upgrade now, while still beta, and keep running the updates for it, you will have final release when it is finally released.

My take, though, is to hold off on upgrading to the next release for at least a month, if the machine is of any value(production-wise)
better still, wait until first point release(July/August), which I believe, is the typical time recommended by Canonical and Ubuntu devs to upgrade from LTS to LTS.
They tend to have more of the initial problems fixed by then, so trouble are fewer to deal with.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2014-04-01
1. Yes, you can go straight from one LTS to the next.

2. Yes, the beta becomes the final version if you run the normal system updates, but I recommend against using Update Manager to upgrade to 14.04 until its release. Either do a clean install now or do an upgrade when 14.04 final is out. Hitting a moving target is not good.

---

### Post by wegmarsno on 2014-04-01
Thanks to deadflowr and 3rdalbum for your clear and concise answers to my questions.

---

