---
title: ".aspx sites not functional"
date: 2008-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DamonChyld on 2008-04-29
I am trying to access a .aspx site for work through my home computer but am having problems getting it to display properly. The site relies heavily on frames and, after login, it does not display any information in the main document frame when I try to navigate.

I am able to access the site through IE in VirtualBox but I don't want to go into it every time I need to access this site.

I have tried using the User Agent Switcher plugin for Firefox but this does not solve the problem (same results when I try IE, Netscape, or Opera emulation options). I have also tried IEs4Linux but I receive a "Server error in '/' Application" error when I navigate to the site.

Does anyone have a solution to this problem?

---

### Post by DamonChyld on 2008-05-02
Kindly [COLOR="Sienna"]B[/COLOR]ring [COLOR="Sienna"]U[/COLOR]p [COLOR="Sienna"]M[/COLOR]y [COLOR="Sienna"]P[/COLOR]ost

---

### Post by Monicker on 2008-05-02
Got a url?  Is this a public web site?  I have viewed plenty of .aspx sites with no trouble in Ubuntu.  Could just be bad site design which relies MS client side controls.

---

### Post by scottuss on 2008-05-02
Sounds to me like the web app is using some sort of Active X control that will of course only work on Internet Explorer under Windows. Depending on how they have implemented the control, in some cases it can cause an exception. If the exception is not handled, the web app will crash (and show the error message you describe in your post)


If it isn't this, I don't really know what to suggest. You probably have checked this already, but if not, is JavaScript enabled in Firefox? Just a thought..

---

### Post by DamonChyld on 2008-05-02
Thanks for getting back to me.

I have checked JavaScript (allowed all just in case) and that does not appear to be the problem.

Unfortunately I can not give a URL as it's not a public site. I have attached a screenshot though so you can see what I am talking about. As you can see, the main frame is blank while the navigation bar is propagated. When a link is selected, the site will load but the frame remains white. It will rarely give the "error in "/" Application" error, and does this sometimes under VB as well.

I have called the site maintainers for help but they said little more than they don't troubleshoot Linux :(

---

### Post by scottuss on 2008-05-03
One more thing actually... What extensions do you have enabled in Firefox? Try disabling them and seeing if any of these are tampering with the site content (most likely an ad blocker perhaps?)

If this doesn't work, my previous guess was probably true in that they are using Active X or similar and therefore you probably won't be able to get it working.

There is a project to get Active X working in Firefox, but as far as I can tell it only works with FF1.5, nothing above that.

---

### Post by Zach_the_Lizard on 2008-05-03
You can try using the IEs4Linux script to run IE6 under Wine.

To do so, you can run this to install Wine and cabextract, which is needed to extract .cab files:

```

sudo apt-get install wine cabextract

```

Then, once this is finished, you can run the following to download the script, untar it, move to the untarred directory, and then execute the script.

```

wget [http://www.tatanka.com.br/ies4linux/downloads/ies4linux-latest.tar.gz](http://www.tatanka.com.br/ies4linux/downloads/ies4linux-latest.tar.gz)
tar zxvf ies4linux-latest.tar.gz
cd ies4linux-*
./ies4linux

```

The script will install IE6, but can also install a hacked version of IE6 that has the IE7 rendering engine.

If this works, to get better results you can install winetricks and use it to get a few fonts.

```

cd ~ (just to make sure we are in your home directory; once you download this script, you must be in the same directory as it)
wget [http://www.kegel.com/wine/winetricks](http://www.kegel.com/wine/winetricks)
sh winetricks allfonts

```

I hope this helps. Hopefully it can run ActiveX controls.

---

### Post by DamonChyld on 2008-05-12
Thanks for trying to help y'all. I was not able to get it working so decided it would be simplest to dual boot with xp.

---

### Post by niceguy123 on 2008-05-13
Any news on this issue?

---

