---
title: "18.04 Won't Accept Keystrokes or Clicks"
date: 2019-09-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by subuta on 2019-09-07
Hello,

I installed 18.04 (not an upgrade) recently and I have been having three problems that seem to be related:

1. I will try to start a program from the Gnome favourites bar and the program won't start completely. Instead I will get a process that uses all of one core. I have seen this with KeeWeb and with Libre Office, and perhaps other programs.

2. When I want to kill a process I often find that it cannot be killed. This always seems to happen for processes that have been created as described in no. 1. I am not certain whether it is happening in other cases.

3. My system becomes unresponsive to keystrokes and mouse clicks (although the mouse cursor continues to track mouse movements). This happens if I try to start a second instance of a program that did not start properly and that I couldn't kill, as described in 1 and 2. I am not sure whether it happens under any other circumstances. When the system is in this state, the only keystrokes that appear to work are the Alt-Sysreq-reisub sequence.

I would greatly appreciate help with resolving this issue/these issues.

Thank you.

-Dan

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-09-07
What are your computer specs (cpu, ram, video...).

Slow and unresponsive suggest a driver problem or going to swap.
```
free -m
```

---

### Post by subuta on 2019-09-07
Hi cruzer001,

Thanks very much for getting back to me.

To clarify, it is completely unresponsive aside from mouse tracking and reisub, not just slow.  As far as I can tell it will never come back, although I can't prove that :)

I don't think I am using swap as I have a lot of memory:

```
dan@dan-ubuntu:~$ free -m
              total        used        free      shared  buff/cache   available
Mem:          16037        4238        5774         331        6024       11127
Swap:          1847           0        1847
dan@dan-ubuntu:~$ 
```

Of course I can't check once it hangs, but I have been keeping an eye on memory usage and don't seem to be close to using up the RAM.

What you said about swapping prompted me to run a test that created severe memory pressure and forced some swapping.  Performance wasn't pretty, but system held up so I don't *think* there is a problem with swap.

I should also mention that there is almost no disk activity when the system is in the unresponsive state.

The CPU is Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Quad CPU    Q6600  @ 2.40GHz
16 GB of RAM as you can see from the free output.
Video is NVIDIA Corporation G72 [GeForce 7200 GS / 7300 SE] (rev a1)

You mentioned drivers.  Can you suggest something I can test or fiddle with to pursue that idea?  I have checked for additional drivers in Software and Updates, and it says that no additional drivers are available.  I am thinking of going down the proprietary graphics card driver route by following the instructions here:  

[https://adufray.com/blog/2018/06/02/nvidia-304-127-on-bionic](https://adufray.com/blog/2018/06/02/nvidia-304-127-on-bionic)

but this is a big leap for me and not something I would attempt lightly.

Thanks again for your help.

-Dan

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-09-07
Your link refers to Apple 32bit EFI, is this correct for your setup?  If so, I have no experience with this.

The 304 64bit driver can still be download from LaunchPad.
[https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa?field.series_filter=bionic](https://launchpad.net/~graphics-drivers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa?field.series_filter=bionic)

---

### Post by subuta on 2019-09-07
Hi cruzer001,

I am puzzled about that link, so I will include it again:

[https://adufray.com/blog/2018/06/02/nvidia-304-127-on-bionic](https://adufray.com/blog/2018/06/02/nvidia-304-127-on-bionic)

I get a page that explains how to compile the nvidia driver on 18.04, not a page about Apple EFI.

Thanks for the link that you sent.  The process described there fails.  From googling I can see that it has failed for other, too.  Unfortunately, resolving the issue:
```
The following packages have unmet dependencies.
 nvidia-304 : Depends: xorg-video-abi-11 but it is not installable or
                       xorg-video-abi-12 but it is not installable or
                       xorg-video-abi-13 but it is not installable or
                       xorg-video-abi-14 but it is not installable or
                       xorg-video-abi-15 but it is not installable or
                       xorg-video-abi-18 but it is not installable or
                       xorg-video-abi-19 but it is not installable or
                       xorg-video-abi-20 but it is not installable or
                       xorg-video-abi-23
              Depends: xserver-xorg-core
E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages.
```

 is over my head.

So all I have is a hunch that the problem may come from the nouveau nvidia driver, and the dufray instructions for compiling the 304 driver myself.  I will see if I can muster the nerve to try it.

Again, thanks very much for your help.

-Dan

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-09-07
That link has a reference to Apple EFI which threw me.

On to your latest post, xorg-video-abi-23 is a virtual package contained in xserver-xorg-core.
[https://packages.ubuntu.com/bionic/xorg-video-abi-23](https://packages.ubuntu.com/bionic/xorg-video-abi-23)
Something I thought everyone had installed, please verify that.
```
apt policy xserver-xorg-core
```

Also please verify your on either xorg or xWayland.  This can be done at the login screen by clicking on the gear.  If you were not, this could help clear things up.

I did get a ton of hits while searching, here are some of the more interesting ones.
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2396263](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2396263)
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1080868/cant-install-nvidia-drivers-on-ubuntu-18-04](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1080868/cant-install-nvidia-drivers-on-ubuntu-18-04)
[https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?t=294712](https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?t=294712)
[https://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu/](https://linoxide.com/linux-how-to/install-nvidia-drivers-ubuntu/)

At this point I do not know what else to tell you.

---

### Post by subuta on 2019-09-15
[FONT=arial]Sorry, Cruzer001. Somehow I had missed your response or the key points in it.
[/FONT]
[COLOR=#242729][FONT=Arial]I am now pretty sure that these three symptoms are all caused by the same issue. I try to start a program, it doesn't start fully and chews up a core, it can't be killed, and within a few minutes Ubuntu doesn't accept keyboard or mouse input aside from tracking mouse movement and REISUB. Typically happens every few hours. I have reinstalled 18.04 from scratch and continue to experience the issue.

[/FONT][/COLOR]Looks like I don't have that policy you asked about:

[FONT=courier new]dan@psl64b1:~$ apt policy xserver-xorg-core
xserver-xorg-core:
  Installed: (none)
  Candidate: 2:1.19.6-1ubuntu4.3
  Version table:
     2:1.19.6-1ubuntu4.3 500
        500 [http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) bionic-updates/main amd64 Packages
     2:1.19.6-1ubuntu4.2 500
        500 [http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) bionic-security/main amd64 Packages
     2:1.19.6-1ubuntu4 500
        500 [http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) bionic/main amd64 Packages
dan@psl64b1:~$

I investigated installing it:

sudo apt-get install  xserver-xorg-core
[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]but it looks like that would cause extensive changes:

[/FONT][FONT=courier new]The following packages will be REMOVED[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]  ubuntu-desktop xorg xserver-xorg-core-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-input-all-hwe-18.04[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]  xserver-xorg-input-libinput-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-input-wacom-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-video-all-hwe-18.04[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]  xserver-xorg-video-amdgpu-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-video-ati-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-video-fbdev-hwe-18.04[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]  xserver-xorg-video-intel-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-video-nouveau-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-video-qxl-hwe-18.04[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]  xserver-xorg-video-radeon-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-video-vesa-hwe-18.04 xserver-xorg-video-vmware-hwe-18.04[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]The following NEW packages will be installed[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]  xserver-xorg-core[/FONT]


[FONT=courier new][FONT=arial]and I didn't proceed.[/FONT]

[FONT=arial]I didn't find the gear  you referred to, so I checked another way,  It looks like I am using X11 but a user named gdm is using Wayland:
[/FONT]
[/FONT][FONT=courier new]dan@psl64b1:~$ loginctl[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]   SESSION        UID USER             SEAT             TTY             [/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]        c1        121 gdm              seat0            tty1            [/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]         2       1000 dan              seat0            tty2            [/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]
[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]2 sessions listed.[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]dan@psl64b1:~$ loginctl show-session 2  -p Type[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]Type=x11[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]dan@psl64b1:~$ loginctl show-session c1  -p Type[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]Type=wayland[/FONT]
[FONT=courier new]dan@psl64b1:~$ [/FONT]

Thanks again for your help.

-Dan

---

