---
title: "11.10 User accounts program no longer starts"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Redwol on 2011-10-14
The user accounts worked when I first installed the OS. Now it seems to not even launch. I don't know how I can make more users anymore. I did install some programs from software center but none of them ever said anything about removing the user accounts settings. Please help! :confused:

---

### Post by rugi on 2011-10-16
I am Also facing same problem. i want to set Auto logon , but User Account setting is not opening.

---

### Post by gnb on 2011-10-17
I am also facing same problem. Ubuntu 11.10 seems to be useless. it took 10 hours for upgrading from 11.04 to 11.10. After all that irritating hours, I am having an Ubuntu with all problems.

---

### Post by Redwol on 2011-10-18
Just to update on the situation, here is the error I get when I click on the icon for user accounts:
```
(gnome-control-center:9196): screen-cc-panel-WARNING **: Error getting brightness: GDBus.Error:org.gtk.GDBus.UnmappedGError.Quark._gsd_5fpower_5fmanager_5ferror.Code0: gsd-backlight-helper failed: No backlights were found on your system


Segmentation fault

```edit: I didn't expect the new interface to be more buggy than windows desktop, I am disappointed. Looks like a Memory leak.

Edit2: a good way to find problems with user settings panel is by running ```
gnome-control-center
``` from the command line and clicking of different buttons

---

### Post by blefuscu93 on 2011-10-22
I have experienced the same error. I thought that using terminal commands to add users and then install nanny (parental control) will give me a kind of workaround for the problem, but unfortunately I have the same problem with nanny console - it asks for password but won't start (crashes right after, without an specific error code in dmesg).

Did anyone find any solution? ... Maybe a fresh install will solve that (did someone tried this?)

---

### Post by crdlb on 2011-10-22
A fix for this bug has been issued to oneiric-proposed. 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/841280](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/841280)

---

### Post by Redwol on 2011-10-23
> **blefuscu93 said:**
> I have experienced the same error. I thought that using terminal commands to add users and then install nanny (parental control) will give me a kind of workaround for the problem, but unfortunately I have the same problem with nanny console - it asks for password but won't start (crashes right after, without an specific error code in dmesg).

Did anyone find any solution? ... Maybe a fresh install will solve that (did someone tried this?)

I did fresh install but still no luck, the error came back. :(

I am now installing the bug fix(package gnome-control-center - 1:3.2.1-0ubuntu1), I hope it will fix the issue.
Will update on this issue when done.

Edit: Yay! it seems to work :)

---

