---
title: "512 or 1024 ram?"
date: 2007-03-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2007-03-28
Hi,

 I wil be buying some more RAM for a Dell GX270 that is currently running Xubuntu 6.10 with 256 RAM. When the final Feisty Ubuntu is out I will be loading it onto this computer.

 So should I buy 512 or 1024?? Memory price is not too bad at the moment and I am leaning toward 1024 but everybody always seems to say Ubuntu = 512RAM

              Thanks for your thoughts,

                           Andrew

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2007-03-29
512 is enough, but 1024 is better. I would go for 1024, at the rate xubuntu is going, it will be just as bloated as gnome or kde. Also the newer applications just keep using more and more resources, plan ahead and you won't need to update again for a long time.

---

### Post by mrreality13 on 2007-03-29
Well if $ isnt really a problem for you I would do 1024,I dont think you can never have enough memory :guitar: (wishes he could add some ram to his head):popcorn:

---

### Post by nanotube on 2007-03-29
definitely 1024. especially if you tend to use several apps at once, have many firefox tabs open, etc., you will really appreciate the extra ram.

---

### Post by Jeremy88 on 2007-03-29
Depending on how you use your computer, it could differ on how much memory you need. If your a power user or multimedia user then get 1024 for a better experience with ubuntu, but 512 is plenty.

---

### Post by simonn on 2007-03-29
I use Xubuntu (with beryl) and my PC has 1Gb RAM. I have never gone over ~400Mb unless I run W2K in a qemu session (I need it to occasionally VPN to my work network).

This includes running up to three X sessions simultaniously, recording two DTV broadcasts, watching a DivX and playing some MP3s at the same time whilst feeding other MP3s/FLACs to my Squeeze Box and browsing the web with firefox - purposely pushing the system to see how reliable it would be as a PVR, multimedia server and multi-user desktop simultaniously.

IMHO/E most multimedia apps tend to be more CPU intensive than memory intensive e.g. ripping a dvd with mencoder uses around 30Mb RAM, but takes hours(!).

Firefox is by far the biggest memory hog.

If you want to use a VMware or QEMU etc I would go for 1Gb (or more).

---

