---
title: "using PartImage.. don't understand how to use.."
date: 2007-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by billdotson on 2007-04-01
I am using PartImage to backup my Windows install so I don't have to always be wary of installing and trying out demos or new programs.  I have defragged the hard drive twice w/ the XP defragmenter and twice with AusLogics Defragmenter.  I know PartImage FAQ says that system files cannot be compressed and that the drive cannot be (highly I think it said) fragmented or else PartImage can't back it up as a disk image and the save will fail.  So, I have a 233GB NTFS partition on my external hard drive w/ a bunch of the installers, etc. for my programs.  Can I save the disk image to that partition w/o overwriting the stuff on there or do I have to have a partition just for the disk image (one the same size or larger than my XP SP2 install)?

If not, it is going to be a big pain repartitioning my external drive as I will have to move all that data around and copy and paste back and forth.

---

### Post by indytim on 2007-04-01
Depending upon the extent that your NTFS partition is already occupied, you may not have enough room to put the partition image that will be generated by Partimage there.

I believe that Partimage is considered "experimental" with NTFS partitions (check their site for details).

Also, you may want to check out the numerous posts and threads here on resizing partitions.  If you're not careful, you can really mess things up (especially NTFS partitions).  Check out the details carefully before proceeding ok?

IndyTim

---

### Post by billdotson on 2007-04-01
I have 180GB left on my external HDD's NTFS partition.  That is enough to put the image on there as it will only be 130GB if it isn't compressed.  

So I am assuming I need to resize my NTFS partition so that I won't have to have a 230-some partition image.  I know that if your NTFS partition is fragmented it can cause many problems if you resize it.  Although I have defragged about ~4 times.

---

