---
title: "12.04 ESM, how will it work"
date: 2017-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ubu_Leno on 2017-04-25
With Ubunth 12.04 coming end of life this week is anyone able to clarify how the 12.04 ESM will work.   If I pay for the extended server support by buying Ubuntu Advantage,  what changes if any will I need to make to the system to ensure it gets the extended security maintenance.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-04-25
> **ubu_Leno said:**
> With Ubunth 12.04 coming end of life this week is anyone able to clarify how the 12.04 ESM will work.   If I pay for the extended server support by buying Ubuntu Advantage,  what changes if any will I need to make to the system to ensure it gets the extended security maintenance.

If you buy the service they will be in contact with you as to what you will have to do on your end.
If you need to do anything.

But the gist is that you would be given special access to a private repository system.
Probably only accessible to those with special tokens and keys.
Which they would give you.

---

### Post by escapevelocity2 on 2017-04-26
Will Ubuntu ESM for 12.04 work with the unattended-upgrades, specifically on AWS EC2?  We are strongly considering Advantage for ESM, but only if it is not super disruptive to our upgrade workflow.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-04-26
> **escapevelocity2 said:**
> Will Ubuntu ESM for 12.04 work with the unattended-upgrades, specifically on AWS EC2?  We are strongly considering Advantage for ESM, but only if it is not super disruptive to our upgrade workflow.
That would be something you would have to discuss with an Ubuntu Advantage rep.
Seems like it would only need a slight tweak, if anything, to the unattended-upgrades config file.

---

### Post by escapevelocity2 on 2017-04-26
Thanks deadflowr - I agree that a rep should be able to answer.  Unfortunately, I've been unable to get one on the phone.  :-/

---

