---
title: "Ubuntu 13.10 &quot;nouveau&quot; display broke"
date: 2014-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jim38 on 2014-02-14
Hello, first let me say I'm new to linux learning my way around.

My problem started while trying to upgrade to the lastest  nvidia version(beta) for kernal 3.14
move to a console and shutdown lightdm ( service lightdm stop )
then from a terminal trying to run the nvidia file.

and trying some of the new patches myself if a new driver doesn't work I would do this:

sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-*
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
echo 'nouveau' | sudo tee -a /etc/modules

[SIZE=3]I did all these steps several times with no problems returning to my orignal configurations 
but by the 4th or 5th time I have messed up "nouveau"

I'm not sure how to repair nouveau back. Right now its at a low resolution, I have the "auto hide lancher" on
and when it "hides" there's a blank part of the screen there cut off on the display.

I don't care really about using a Nvidia driver now. I would be happy with a open source driver.
Besides "nouveau" I've read about one called "Mesa"? 

My goal at the start of all this was just to get my  [/SIZE][SIZE=3]1360x768(16:9) display back I had before kernal 3.14 upgrade.

Can anyone help with an idea? Thanks[/SIZE]
[SIZE=3]
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-02-14
I would not say that you have messed up Nouveau. I see the same effect when I run Recovery Mode Resume. Linux/Ubuntu then loads without activating the proprietary video driver. It uses a part of Nouveau called llvmpipe. Ubuntu uses it as a fallback mode if Ubuntu is being installed on a machine with a graphic adapter than cannot run accelerated 3D graphics and also for Recovery mode>Resume.

> [SIZE=2][COLOR=#000000][FONT=Open Sans]LLVMpipe is a Gallium3D graphics driver in Mesa that does all rendering on the CPU for providing a software-accelerated fallback on Linux[/FONT][/COLOR][/SIZE]

[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=search&q=LLVMpipe](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=search&q=LLVMpipe)

I suggest that you go to System Settings>Software and Updates>Additional Drivers tab and activate either what I call full Nouveau or a proprietary Nvidia video driver.

Are you aware that at the Grub menu there is an option called Advanced Options for Ubuntu? It is a sub-menu. Open that and you will find the earlier kernels listed. So, you can load one of them instead of kernel 3.14.

Regards.

---

### Post by jim38 on 2014-02-14
Thanks for the fast reply

Right now I'm using Ubuntu 13.10 w/ kernal 3.14 only because of my hobby "satellite signals". A member in another forumn
I belong to created his own kernal / tree that has modules that work for what we do. With kernal 3.13 nvidia ver.304 works and the last time I upgraded his modules it put me at 3.14 and of course nvidia is still working on drivers for 3.14.
I can go back to kernal 3.13 but using old modules some satellite apps won't work.

Anyways help is very appreciated. I found out later that open source video drivers might be an answer.
I think I might of messed up some "Xorg" file and "X11" is  still there.
I just can't figure out how to get a nice display back with "nouveau"

Thanks jim
in Central USA

---

### Post by jim38 on 2014-02-14
Here's a screen shot pic attached of what my screen looks like on the left and also 13.10 has an error.
In the second pic I have "Built in display" and before problems I had a "Unknown" display

Are there some simple commands to do from the terminal to get nouveau back to maybe to a default setting?
 
~$lspci | grep -i vga 
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GF119 [GeForce GT 610] (rev a1)

~$uname -r
Linux jimUbuntu 3.14.0-rc1+ #1 SMP Wed Feb 12 10:27:24 CST 2014 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

~$lsmod | grep nouveau

nouveau              1131743  0 
mxm_wmi                12865  1 nouveau
wmi                    18804  3 mxm_wmi,nouveau,asus_wmi
video                  19206  2 nouveau,asus_wmi
ttm                    80200  1 nouveau
drm_kms_helper         46186  1 nouveau
drm                   283361  3 ttm,drm_kms_helper,nouveau
i2c_algo_bit           13257  3 cx88_vp3054_i2c,cx88xx,nouveau



I'll keep reading about "nouvuea" and this "mesa"



THANKS 
JIM 
IN central USA

---

### Post by jim38 on 2014-02-15
The problem with my display was caused from this file in...   "etc/modprob.d/nvidia-installer-disable-nouveau.conf"
I had nouveau driver working but I had to add a "#" in front of the "options nouveau modeset=0" this was causing a blank spot on my screen where the "tabs laucher auto hides. 

So now my "nvidia-installer-disable-nouveau.conf" file looks like this:
  
# generated by nvidia-installer
#blacklist nouveau
#options nouveau modeset=0

Thanks for your help graham I did learn alot on this one:D[SIZE=5] SOLVED[/SIZE]

---

