---
title: "Problem with xserver-xorg"
date: 2009-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-23
I'm having trouble getting my video drivers and screen resolution working right. I am running Ubuntu Studio 9.04, have a Nvidia GF 7600 GS card.
Tried running dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg and dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg but unable to complete due to "xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.....

Tried searching web for possible solution but I haven't been able to resolve problem. I think I have something in xorg.conf messed up or something like that. Have downloaded and installed Nvidia drivers but they don't seem to be right either. It's stuck at 800x600 screen resolution. Help apreciated

---

### Post by diesch on 2009-10-23
If you have the proprietary NVidia drivers installed you should be able to tun 
```
sudo nvidia-settings
```

---

### Post by H4F on 2009-10-23
I guess you will have to install nvidia drivers.

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-23
Tried running sudo nvidia-settings and got this: 
"You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server" in a window. So I tried running sudo nvidia-xconfig but got nothing

---

### Post by H4F on 2009-10-23
> **Okiebornbred said:**
> Tried running sudo nvidia-settings and got this: 
"You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server" in a window. So I tried running sudo nvidia-xconfig but got nothing

try to use this guide to setup the latest nvidia driver [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=57368](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=57368)

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-23
I tried installing latest nvidia driver from the link you gave H4F but still having same problem. The following is my xorg.conf file--seems messed up to me but I'm unable to reconfigure xserver because always get "server-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.....

Here is what's listed in xorg.conf:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by H4F on 2009-10-23
post lspci to see what graphics card exactly you have

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-23
Now I'm trying to figure out how to insert scrolling text in this post so I can show you my Xorg.0.log so it doesn't use a ton of space on this webpage

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-23
From lspci:   VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation G73 [GeForce 7600 GS] (rev a2)

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-24
Since I cant figure out how to insert scrolling text like I've seen in other posts I'll include my Xorg.0.log as an attachment and hopefully someone can help me figure out my problem

---

### Post by H4F on 2009-10-24
From Xorg.0.log:
No matches found for this device in /usr/share/xserver-xorg/pci 
(==) Registering 'vesa' as fallback 

seems that it doesnt find device . and uses vesa as default one.

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-24
> **H4F said:**
> From Xorg.0.log:
No matches found for this device in /usr/share/xserver-xorg/pci 
(==) Registering 'vesa' as fallback 

seems that it doesnt find device . and uses vesa as default one.
How can I get this corrected?

---

### Post by H4F on 2009-10-24
> **Okiebornbred said:**
> How can I get this corrected?

well your card is supported. and if you did everything right from the nvidia tutorial everything should be fine.

See what might you have done wrong ;

as I don't have nvidia card can't suggest anything else.

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-24
When I tried the tutorial from the link provided in previous post on installing nvidia drivers it said to do the following:[INDENT] sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
scroll the file down until you find the line with “Modules” and comment out (by putting a "#" before the line) the 2 lines I put in blue and add Load "glx". It should look like the example below:


Section "Module"
Load "bitmap"
Load "dbe"
Load "ddc"
#[COLOR=Blue]Load "dri"[/COLOR]
#[COLOR=Blue]Load “GLcore”[/COLOR]
Load "extmod"
Load "freetype"
[COLOR=Green]Load "glx"[/COLOR]
Load "int10"
Load "record"
Load "type1"
Load "vbe"

Then find the section Device and make sure the word I put in red is “nvidia”:

Section "Device"
Identifier "NVIDIA Corporation NV40 [GeForce 6200 TurboCache]"
Driver "[COLOR=Red]nvidia[/COLOR]"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"


CTRL+O to save (yes, use the same name and overwrite the file)
CTRL+X to exit
[/INDENT]but there were major discrepancies with what was in my xorg.conf file(See post #6). It's like my file is generic and I'm unable to reconfigure because everytime I run dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg I get the error message listed in my first post and am unable to get it to re-detect hardware or manually enter the devices myself

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-25
I know there's got to be a way to fix this but I haven't been able to figure it out and I'm tired of searching, I think I'll just reinstall.
Thanks to all who tried to help

---

### Post by H4F on 2009-10-26
Post the results if you managed to fix it by reinstalling .

---

### Post by Okiebornbred on 2009-10-30
Well, I had a spare 20 gig harddrive so I put it in and tried doing a fresh install of 9.04 hoping installation would set up proper graphics but still encountered same problems as before. 

I swapped harddrives back and changed video adapter (an old FX 5200), rebooted, and resolution was automatically set to the max for my monitor and everything seems fine. I guess there must be an issue with the nvidia card and Ubuntu that I wasn't able to resolve

---

