---
title: "14.04 LTS old kernels - are they still installed or not?"
date: 2015-09-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jhboards on 2015-09-11
Please refer to the screen shot:

Needed to remove/clean out old kernels as software updater would not run, not enough file space in the boot folder. Ran** ```
dpkg --list | grep linux-image
```**to see installed kernels.
 
Then tried to delete all but 2 newest kernels using ```
**sudo apt-get purge linux-image-x.x.x.xx-generic **
```for each kernel I wanted to delete.
Terminal returns statement that (images) "*are not installed, so not removed*".

Questions:

1) Are these kernels still installed or not?

2) If these kernels are still installed, how do I delete them?

3) What are the "image-extra" kernels (?)

4) Can/Should the "image-extra" kernels be deleted also?

Thanks.
[ATTACH=CONFIG]264361[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-09-11
The command dpkg --list doesn't tell you which packages are installed.
Instead, the command tells you all packages, whether installed or not, that are listed in the dpkg database.

1) and 2) All those prepended with 'rc' are not installed. You already removed them.

---

### Post by jhboards on 2015-09-11
OK, so I have some incorrect or misunderstood (my bad) directions: ```
**dpkg --list | grep linux-image **
```_*does not*_ list the installed kernels on my system.

Is the correct command to list the installed image(s):** ```
dpkg -l | grep linux-image-
```  (?)**

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-09-12
Really easy way to do this is to install Synaptic Package Manager, search for 'linux image' and remove completely the ones you don't want. Just mark the 'linux-image' s you don't want. 

It is not a good idea to remove all but one kernel. If you break it, you have nowhere to go. Rule of thumb is to keep the newest and the one before that.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-09-12
> **jhboards said:**
> OK, so I have some incorrect or misunderstood (my bad) directions: **dpkg --list | grep linux-image **_*does not*_ list the installed kernels on my system.

It **does** list all installed kernels. It **also** lists all kernels in the database.
You are searching by name (grep linux-image), not searching by installed status ('rc', 'ii', etc.). 

> **jhboards said:**
>  Is the correct command to list the installed image(s):** dpkg -l | grep linux-image-  (?)**

You could try **dpkg -l | grep linux-image | grep ii**
However, that will return only properly-installed packages with that name. It won't show you problems like incomplete installs or broken packages.
For a list of all the possible dpkg --list codes, see 'man dpkg-query'

dpkg is a low-level tool, not ideal for beginners. It's very powerful.
It expects you to fully understand debian package management, and to know exactly what you want* in those terms*.
dpkg will do exactly what you tell it to - no more, no less. Even if you tell it to do something foolish or dangerous.

---

### Post by iulian X on 2015-09-12
> **jhboards said:**
> 
Needed to remove/clean out old kernels as software updater would not run, not enough file space in the boot folder. Ran** dpkg --list | grep linux-image** to see installed kernels.
 Then tried to delete all but 2 newest kernels using **sudo apt-get purge linux-image-x.x.x.xx-generic **for each kernal I wanted to delete.
Terminal returns statement that (images) "*are not installed, so not removed*".

Questions:
1) Are these kernels still installed or not?
2) If these kernels are still installed, how do I delete them?
3) What are the "image-extra" kernels (?)
4) Can/Should the "image-extra" kernels be deleted also?

Why dont you use Ubuntu tweak to delete old kernels and old kernels package configs?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2015-09-12
Confirm the userfriendly Synaptic tool to install/remove/purge package.
As said above, at least two installed kernels is more safe than only one (in case of trouble with the latest installed)
When removing kernel, you usually have 4 packages to purge (complete removal): 2 images + 2 headers

'sudo apt-get autoremove' can do the job too, but purge all the kernels but the latest used (headers are left behind, so its not a 'clean' solution)

---

### Post by jhboards on 2015-09-12
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Really easy way to do this is to install Synaptic Package Manager, search for 'linux image' and remove completely the ones you don't want. Just mark the 'linux-image' s you don't want. 

It is not a good idea to remove all but one kernel. If you break it, you have nowhere to go. Rule of thumb is to keep the newest and the one before that.

OK. Ran Synaptic, cleaned out older kernels, now it appears to me that there are only 2 kernels in the system:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]264384[/ATTACH]
Now, referring to my other screen shot, what are the _***Linux-image-[COLOR=#ff0000]extra[/COLOR]-x-x-x-x-generic***_ packages and were they deleted with the "**Linux-images**" ?:

[ATTACH=CONFIG]264385[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2015-09-12
[This is]("http://tuxtweaks.com/2010/10/remove-old-kernels-in-ubuntu-with-one-command/") arguably the easiest, not tedious way to remove old kernels and headers. Test it, put the command in a text file, and run once in a while.

---

### Post by jhboards on 2015-09-12
> **mikewhatever said:**
> [This is]("http://tuxtweaks.com/2010/10/remove-old-kernels-in-ubuntu-with-one-command/") arguably the easiest, not tedious way to remove old kernels and headers. Test it, put the command in a text file, and run once in a while.

I'm in over my head now, but, running the command from the above referenced posting ***"Step 4) Filter the list for only the kernel packages"***

results in this:

[B][ATTACH=CONFIG]264388[/ATTACH]
[/B][COLOR=#ff0000]*Linux-brprinter-installer*[/COLOR][B] (??)

As I stated before, this is beyond me. Why I am I getting this and no list of kernel packages?



[/B]

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-09-13
Thanks for attaching your screenshots. Please attach them rather than inserting them in the body of your posts. 

Large screen shots waste space and can cause problems for those with slow connections or vision issues, both of whom may be able to help. :)

---

### Post by jhboards on 2015-09-13
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Thanks for attaching your screenshots. Please attach them rather than inserting them in the body of your posts. Thanks.

Large screen shots waste space and can cause problems for those with slow connections or vision issues, both of whom may be able to help. :)

OK, will do. 

I also figured out how to do: 

```
"code tags"
``` Future posts will reflect this. Thanks for the guidance.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-09-13
Nice. :)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2015-09-13
> **jhboards said:**
> I'm in over my head now, but, running the command from the above referenced posting ***"Step 4) Filter the list for only the kernel packages"***

results in this:


As I stated before, this is beyond me. Why I am I getting this and no list of kernel packages?
[/B]
To be honest, it is quite beyond me as well, but, it is well explained, and it works nonetheless.

I'll skip to the last two lines:
```
dpkg -l linux-* | awk '/^ii/{ print $2}' | grep -v -e `uname -r | cut -f1,2 -d"-"` | grep -e [0-9] | grep -E "(image|headers)" | xargs sudo apt-get --dry-run remove
```
```
dpkg -l linux-* | awk '/^ii/{ print $2}' | grep -v -e `uname -r | cut -f1,2 -d"-"` | grep -e [0-9] | grep -E "(image|headers)" | xargs sudo apt-get -y purge
```

...first is a dry run that just prints the packages to be removed, second removes kernels and headers. 
Note, that each one is just one line.

PS: Instead of attaching screenshots, can't you just copy/paste the text?

---

### Post by malspa on 2015-09-13
> **ian-weisser said:**
> The command dpkg --list doesn't tell you which packages are installed.
Instead, the command tells you all packages, whether installed or not, that are listed in the dpkg database.

Ugh. The info [here]("http://ask.xmodulo.com/remove-kernel-images-ubuntu.html") under "How to Clean up Old Kernel Images" is incomplete, as it says nothing about if entries are prepended with "rc" instead of "ii" when you run **dpkg --list | grep linux-image** or **dpkg --list | grep linux-headers**.

> **mikewhatever said:**
> [This is]("http://tuxtweaks.com/2010/10/remove-old-kernels-in-ubuntu-with-one-command/") arguably the easiest, not tedious way to remove old kernels and headers. Test it, put the command in a text file, and run once in a while.

Nice. Users should be sure to know what they're doing with long, nasty commands of that sort, though! My preferred approach, basically what Bucky Ball said, search in Synaptic for **linux-image**. Mark for Complete Removal all but the two most recent kernels. Search for **linux-header**. Mark for Complete Removal all but the two most recent headers. Corresponding linux-image-extra and linux-headers-x.xx.x-xx-generic packages will be marked for *removal*, so I go back and mark those for *complete removal*, too. Then apply the changes. More tedious, I guess, but not so bad if you regularly do this after every time a new kernel is installed.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-09-13
> **malspa said:**
> Ugh. The info [here]("http://ask.xmodulo.com/remove-kernel-images-ubuntu.html") under "How to Clean up Old Kernel Images" is incomplete, as it says nothing about if entries are prepended with "rc" instead of "ii" when you run **dpkg --list | grep linux-image** or **dpkg --list | grep linux-headers**.

Understandable. That blog post is somebody's opinion on how to fix their problem their way.
The blog post also ignores that the behavior you are trying to fix (old kernels accumulating) is generally a bug workaround for some users. Most Ubuntu users don't accumulate old kernels - they autoremove properly.

---

### Post by malspa on 2015-09-16
> **ian-weisser said:**
> The blog post also ignores that the behavior you are trying to fix (old kernels accumulating) is generally a bug workaround for some users. Most Ubuntu users don't accumulate old kernels - they autoremove properly.
Just to clarify, are you saying that the fact that Ubuntu does not by default automatically remove old kernels is a bug?

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2015-09-16
> **malspa said:**
> Just to clarify, are you saying that the fact that Ubuntu does not by default automatically remove old kernels is a bug?

Yes. Most users *do* have their old kernels autoremoved automatically. See the /etc/kernel/postinst.d/apt-auto-removal file, provided by the 'apt' package.
Users who don't are suffering from one or more of several reported bugs.
Help figuring out those bugs is most welcome - nobody so far has been able to figure out why that autoremoval shell script doesn't work for some.

---

