---
title: "8.10 opengl games mouse focus issue"
date: 2009-02-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by roop1337 on 2009-02-04
I have two separate computers which experience this issue now. Both had clean installs of 8.10 64bit. I used the same alternate installer CD for both. Did an apt-get upgrade on both.

The video drivers are in place (one is nvidia, the other ati). The keyboard works fine. i can see the mouse cursor, I just can't move it while in an opengl game.

On one computer, this problem does not exist in ubuntu 9.04 alpha 3 64bit. It also doesn't exist in 8.10 32bit.

I can sometimes get the mouse to work by randomly pressing keys or by alt-tabbing but this doesn't last long. There is a bit of flickering and right after this, the mouse is gone.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by roop1337 on 2009-02-04
Looks like I'm affected by this bug:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/282010](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/282010)


After turning off the gnome flashy graphics (System -> Prefs -> Appearance -> Visual Effects -> None) this problem no longer occurs.

It still occurred at the Normal setting. Well at least I know it's fixed in 9.04... I'll upgrade to that when it's released.

Update 1:

after further messing with this, installing the nvidia 180.22 drivers resolves this. I had to manually do it from Nvidia's website. Come to think of it, the restricted hardware drivers tool doesn't work in 9.04 alpha 3 so I did a manual install there as well. This is why the issue didn't occur in 9.04.

After the driver install, I set the effects to medium and I didn't have the mouse problem.

Yay! Now I can go confirm this on my other system that has this problem. I'll report back later.

Update 2:

Nope, that didn't fix anything. It's only good for the first boot and shortly after that... back to the drawing board.

---

