---
title: "10.4.2 Live Disc Starts to Boot"
date: 2011-09-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by WiskyT on 2011-09-25
but doesn't fully start. 
 
Hi,
 
Pardon my ignorance regarding the terms used for these things. A little bit of knowledge is dangerous, and that pretty well describes me. I have been running Ubuntu in my ancient desktop for a couple of years and never needed any help, it just plain worked. I have a Gateway laptop that is getting pretty slow with it's XP and I wanted to try running the 10.4.2 Ubuntu disc I have as a live disc.
 
When I power up the machine with the CD in the drive, it starts to boot up just like it should. This is the same exact CD I used to get my desktop working when the HD crashed so I know it is good. Anyway, it makes all the normal spinning sounds and it ends up at the purple screen with the word "ububtu" on it and the five or six dots that change color. At this point the CD drive slows down and the and just makes occasional clicking noises. The little dots continue to change color as though some progress were being made. I let it stay like this for 1/2 an hour and it was exactly the same.
 
I would like to be able to demonstrate that the laptop will work with the live disc and then likely reformat the whole thing to run Ubuntu sans any Windows products. I guess that's called a "clean install"? At any rate, walk before running is my idea and I'd like to run it as a live disc and go from there. 
 
Thank you

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2011-09-25
Hi, welcome to the fora.

Please give a complete hardware description, especially the amount of memory.

---

