---
title: "12.04 runs not as expected"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KenLavallee on 2012-04-29
My system is fairly decent, even cutting edge at one time. It's got an Intel Core 2 Duo E8400, 4 GB of Performance RAM,  and an ATI Radeon  HD 4670 1GB. My system runs OS X Lion BEAUTIFULLY and Windows 7 runs decent. But I'm tired of these commercial operating systems and decided to go back to ubuntu (on a spare hard drive, of course!), my last version was Gutsy Gibbon. Alot has changed, for the better. I love the new look and the unity 5.0 and the dash -its just perfect. However, I haven't exprienced so many crashes, system freezes, force restarting, and just over-all sluggishness right down to the system freezing up every minute when browsing the web. And I can't stress enought that I have never ever had to force restart my system since I built it. I had to switch to my ancient compaq notebook from 2005 just to write this(and its running fedora flawlessly with gnome 3). Just so you know how low-end this system is, its got 1 gb of ram and a 1.67ghz single-core intel (pentium?) centrino and Intel GMA 915G. Atleast it's not freezing up like my core 2 duo. Ubuntu never really ran as fast as it claimed on older systems, for me anyway. But this is far worse than my last experience of Gutsy Gibbon on my old single core Celoron D years ago. I am also getting a bunch of Internal Errors. Anyone know why my system could be performing so horribly?

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-04-29
All those freezes and sluggishness are not what most people experience with 12.04. I'm having generally good results on 5 different systems. My guess is either you're unlucky enough to have some sort of hardware incompatibility, or the install medium was bad. Check the hash of the downloaded ISO. Did you burn a CD or live USB. If a CD, start booting it and when you see the two small icons at the base of the screen against a plain purple background, tap the spacebar to get the old text menu. There's a disc integrity check in the menu.

---

### Post by KenLavallee on 2012-04-29
I had no media available to burn it to, so I just installed using an 11.10 disc I burnt a month ago but decided to wait untill the new version came out i.e. the other day to install then upgrade.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2012-04-29
Might be worth downloading the 12.04 ISO and burning to CD/DVD (if you can get hold of one) or USB and running it live to see if it runs better live. If it does, then it could be problems with the upgrade. Of course, live sessions are sluggish at the best of times, but it might be a useful exercise.

---

### Post by schnelle on 2012-04-29
Download 12.04 and do a clean install. Probably something went wrong in upgrade process.

I am running Ubuntu Precise on 4,5 years old laptop and it works very well. I only had to disable dash blur effect because dash with blur was very slow/sluggish.

---

### Post by KenLavallee on 2012-04-29
> **schnelle said:**
> Download 12.04 and do a clean install. Probably something went wrong in upgrade process.

I am running Ubuntu Precise on 4,5 years old laptop and it works very well. I only had to disable dash blur effect because dash with blur was very slow/sluggish.

I hate to have to do it since I invested so much time into setting it up with applications and moving files, but I guess I should because it just froze while I was trying to change the desktop picture.

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2012-04-29
> **KenLavallee said:**
>  However, I haven't exprienced so many crashes, system freezes, force restarting, and just over-all sluggishness right down to the system freezing up every minute when browsing the web. And I can't stress enought that I have never ever had to force restart my system since I built it.  I am also getting a bunch of Internal Errors. Anyone know why my system could be performing so horribly?

Sounds like your motherboard may have bad caps or the PSU has bad caps (more likely) 

I would also expect Windows and Mac OS X to act up shortly. :(

[http://badcaps.net/pages.php?vid=5](http://badcaps.net/pages.php?vid=5)

I would check your PSU first! FYI, Antec SmartPowers are known for getting bad caps and have a defect where the outer fan fails to come on.

And it's possible for Antec TruePowers to have bad caps. A caution for all CWT-made Antec PSUs 
(especially 2004-2006)

And check your overclock if you're getting random errors and crashes!

---

### Post by saneearth on 2012-04-29
> **RJARRRPCGP said:**
> Sounds like your motherboard may have bad caps or the PSU has bad caps (more likely) 

I would also expect Windows and Mac OS X to act up shortly. :(

And check your overclock if you're getting random errors and crashes!


Yes, this is possible, but it is quite a leap. Best to always start simple, until if is for sure an extreme. A system diagnositc would also quickly find these possible issues, but my bet is a bad install. Always look for the most recent change.

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2012-04-29
> **saneearth said:**
> Yes, this is possible, but it is quite a leap. Best to always start simple, until if is for sure an extreme. A system diagnositc would also quickly find these possible issues, but my bet is a bad install. Always look for the most recent change.

Could be a bad HDD. :( Especially with a slow OS!

---

### Post by LakeWind on 2012-04-29
I did a clean install on a 2005 Toshiba laptop and am not experiencing any of these problems. As others have suggested, a clean install would be the best place to start. If after a clean 12.04 install, you are still having issues, then troubleshoot the hardware. First things first though.

---

### Post by growingneeds on 2012-04-29
Hi, I had downloaded the 32-bit ISO image for Precise. Upon doing a disk check, the CD simply spins for long periods while it is checking the files without completing. This behavior is not observed with Lucid. The integrity check completes with no errors and a reboot is prompted.

After checking with the dd command, I can verify that the problem was due to a faulty CD writer. The 32-bit iso works as expected. I will be using Precise on one of my machines for a test drive.

---

### Post by KenLavallee on 2012-04-30
Thank you all for your support. For afew months now I've suspected my powersupply to be acting up. It makes whirring noises that seem to sound closer then farther then closer then farther and etc. It's also really loud sometimes when I do a cold start in the morning. I had no idea though that it could cause poor performance.

---

