---
title: "9.04 - Strange upload issues with NZB - Sabnzbdplus &amp; Hellanzb downloading"
date: 2009-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bisch on 2009-10-17
Hello, I have no problem getting either application working, and both work very well.

The strange problem I have is when I'm downloading even with 1 connection in either listed nzb application it produces a TX or upload transfer at a large rate. This is very unexpected.
I have a 6000/800 dsl profile, and if I'm downloading at full speed it is uploading at 400-500kbs, which is insane. If I pause or stop the download my rate goes to the expected ~0kbs.

I've used many newsgroup application in windows and my experience is that nntp is very efficient and can download 5000kbs and require <5-20kbs TX or upload to sustain the transfer.

This issue is the most annoying problem I have using Ubuntu so far. Due to this crazy upload with NZB clients in linux I can't perform reasonable QOS on my router level.

I tried hellanzb to see if the problem still occurred and it did exactly the same as Sabnzbdplus. this issue occurs even with 1 connection opened.


I'm going to guess this is a bug or issue with an underlying layer, or the python-dev, python-twisted deb/packages.

Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by bisch on 2009-10-17
As a note I've tried 4.9 and 4.12 on Sabnzdbplus and  have just completed testing Grabbit through Wine.

all applications give the same very heavy upload transfer viewed in my Router-Tomato Real time bandwidth monitor and on the Ubuntu System monitor.

---

### Post by ohzopants on 2009-10-25
Are you sure it's actually related to these apps?

I noticed some similar mysterious uploading and it turned out that it was PulseAudio related.

---

