---
title: "10.04.1 screensaver, DPMS, and Sleep not working"
date: 2011-03-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Schuby007 on 2011-03-10
Hi,

I just installed Ubuntu 10.04.1 32-bit on a Dell Optiplex GX280 with Intel P4 3.4GHz, 1GB ram, 40GB hard drive, it's connected to a 17" CRT monitor which was detected automatically. Anyways, I set screensaver to come on after 15 minutes, monitor to shut off after 30 minutes and computer to go to sleep after an hour idle. The screensaver came on and monitor shut off as desired but the computer wouldn't go to sleep. So I manually put it to sleep (clicked "Suspend") and it went down and came back up just fine.

I then did a few other things like installed java, flash, vlc player and I noticed that the screensaver won't even come on now. What is going on???

Running:
```
sudo lshw
```shows under display: Intel 82915G/GV/910GL Integrated Graphics Controller. Again the screensaver and DPMS WERE working, but they aren't now. I don't understand why Ubuntu isn't doing what I asked it to do in Preferences. it's very frustrating.

Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank you.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-10
Right now I don't have an explanation for it or a real fix to it. If   you don't find another solution, try replacing it by "xscreensaver", see   my earlier post regarding it:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10385503](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10385503)

Greetings.

---

### Post by Schuby007 on 2011-03-10
Hey,

Thank you for the quick reply. I read through the link you sent me regarding xscreensaver; it looks like it could be pretty messy with having to replace other gnome system utilities to get it working...

I restarted my computer a couple of times and the **screensaver is working again**. I have no idea why! Like I said, all I did was restart the computer a couple times. This is in itself another problem because I have no idea how long it'll stay working. Since the desktop locks when the screensaver activates, this poses a pretty big security concern because if I walk away from my desk and the screensaver doesn't activate then it will be totally unprotected.

I've read another thread which suggests it may be the idle timer, and something in the system is interfering with it. Any ideas? I think I'm gonna look into filing a bug report if it hasn't already been done.

Thank you.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2011-03-10
No, no idea what is causing this. Like I wrote, gnome-screensaver seems to be a bit buggy, it now works as it should at my system, but I also had some issues with it a while ago, it didn't even activate itself. And yeah, file a bug report, you are not the first one, and definetely also not the last one, to whom I suggested xscreensaver as an alternative.

---

