---
title: "10.04 Wireless Network Problem"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by coover on 2010-04-29
I have installed 10.04 64 bit inside Windows 7 . Installation went well, and the boot went well. 

The first thing I tried to do was connect to my wireless router, which is secured with a WPA2 passphrase. After clicking on the name of the Network, the software asked me to type in the passphrase, which I did. At that point, however, the cursor did not become an arrow, but continued in the "I" form and I was not allowed to click on the connect button. In fact, I was unable to click on anything and I had to do a Conrol-Alt-Delete in order to reboot the computer. I attempted to connect again, and had the same problem.

Any solutions?

---

### Post by coover on 2010-04-30
This problem is solved, but others have since popped up.

Evidently, the user, after entering the passphrase, must hit the enter key rather than trying to click on "Connect". I was then able to connect to my wireless network.

When I did connect, I opened Firefox and went to this forum and tried to login. Unfortunately, everytime I placed my cursor on the browser, the browser would scroll to the bottom. When I tried to close the browser, it froze and I was unable to do so. A Control-Alt-Delete brought up the correct dialog, but it, too, was frozen. I depressed the power button until the computer shut off. 

I rebooted. Figuring that there might be an update to fix the problem, I opened updates and attempted to get them. An error message came on that there was some problem - I should have written it down, but did not - and tried again. The computer froze again while trying to get updates. The power button again had to be depressed. 

Do I have a bad copy of the OS? Should I download it again and try again?

---

