---
title: "Boot repair unable to solve boot problem after Windows Update"
date: 2020-08-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Malcolm_Brown on 2020-08-28
I have a Toshiba dynabook Satellite Pro C50-A-1K9 laptop.  It is dual boot system - Ubuntu 20.04LTE and MS Windows10.

After I did the latest Windows update, which included a Toshiba BIOS update to 1.80, the computer will only boot into Windows without showing the usual Ubuntu boot menu.

I ran the boot repair disk from a USB stick, but no change - MS Windows again

Whilst in Windows, as recommended by boot repair, I typed in the Windows command box:-

bcdedit /set {bootmgr} path \EFI\ubuntu\shimx64.efi

No change - it still boots into MS Windows.

I do have comprehensive backups of my data, but unless there is absolutely no other way, I do not want to start with a fresh install of Ubuntu as there is much software installed and the total size is 1.5Tb

I have been using Ubuntu for several years now and am familiar with the command line.  However, this problem is way out of my league and I would appreciate the assistance of a systems expert!  This page, generated by "boot repair" may be useful-

[http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/wWjQhpn8N9/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/p/wWjQhpn8N9/)

It may also be helpful to those who are developing new versions of the boot repair software to hopefully overcome the problems caused by this latest unfortunate update from MS Windows.

Thanks.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-08-28
Have you already checked UEFI settings > Boot menu? Re-setting "Ubuntu" instead of "Windows bootloader manager" as the first boot in the boot order might be enough.

Currently you have a likely non-working "Linpus Lite" as the first boot.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2020-08-28
UEFI updates normally reset UEFI to defaults.
And Windows turns fast start up back on, so then grub cannot boot Windows.

If UEFI update changed to UEFI Secure Boot mode and Ubuntu was in UEFI mode (without secure boot) then it would not be in UEFI boot menu as only Secure Boot installs are shown.

Boot-Repair cannot change UEFI settings, nor fix Windows issues. It is primarily for boot issues, most often grub related & reinstall of grub is the main fix it does. It can change a few grub paramters if desired.

---

### Post by Malcolm_Brown on 2020-08-29
Thanks for your responses.

Windows fast start up is OFF

Secure boot is OFF

Thanks to the last contributor regarding efibootmgr information which I had not come across.

Tried Boot Repair again with different advanced settings in combination with efibootmgr and the computer
now boots into Ubuntu - great!  However the 'Windows boot' option on the grub menu also now boots into
Ubuntu!  As I use Ubuntu 98% of the time I think I will leave it like that!  Windows causes too much
trouble after a big update!  Thanks again.

---

