---
title: "*.RAR files"
date: 2006-05-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Prudentissimus on 2006-05-25
Hi,


i have these *.r01, *.r02 etc files


how do i extract them?


thanks.

---

### Post by meng on 2006-05-25
Install unrar and then use the Archive manager.

---

### Post by iwo1 on 2006-05-31
I installed the unrar and still I havent managed to open any .rar file. How can I check that installed unrar is working? Does the non-free .rar unarchiver open all the .rar versions? Im completely new to linux and ubuntu... hope someone can answer

---

### Post by nanotube on 2006-05-31
yes, you would have better luck with the nonfree version. the free version does not do too well with opening most rars.

---

### Post by linuchsan on 2006-05-31
'unrar e ' must work.

---

### Post by trorion on 2006-05-31
rar non-free absolutely works with all current rar compressions.  Only problem I have is that incomplete sets will report "password missing" instead of "incomplete"

---

### Post by s_h_a_d_o_w_s on 2006-05-31
sudo apt-get install unrar

---

### Post by JoWilly on 2006-05-31
If you want the best rar support in linux, get the original rar form rarlabs.com, here:
[URL="http://rarlabs.com/download.htm"]
http://rarlabs.com/download.htm[/URL]

In this archive you only need the file "rar"; copy it to /usr/bin

You can then handle all rar files up to the lastest versions with the archive manager.

PS: uninstall unrar, no need for it.

---

### Post by djberndt on 2006-06-21
thank you for your answer, JoWilly! 

everywhere else i just found recommendations of unrar and unrar-free, but they did'nt work.

this worked just fine and is quite simple to use! :D

---

### Post by mnc2211 on 2006-06-26
[QUOTE=djberndt]thank you for your answer, JoWilly! 

everywhere else i just found recommendations of unrar and unrar-free, but they did'nt work.

this worked just fine and is quite simple to use! :D[/QUOTE]


THIS REALLY WORKS!!!

THANKS

---

### Post by kpaul_nyc on 2006-06-26
when i try to move the files to bin it says i dont have permission to write to that folder....but i  am using the administer account

---

### Post by krazyd on 2006-06-29
Champion! Thanks!!

---

### Post by nanotube on 2006-06-30
[QUOTE=kpaul_nyc]when i try to move the files to bin it says i dont have permission to write to that folder....but i  am using the administer account[/QUOTE]
you need to read about "sudo". please check the faq link in my sig.

---

### Post by CAX on 2006-07-02
I haven't got permission to copy the file either and my username is added behind the two entries in /group that seem to involv administrator things *(behind adm and the admin entries) as can be seen below. What am I doing wrong?:confused: s 

my username is cax if that is not clear

root:x:0:
daemon:x:1:
bin:x:2:
sys:x:3:
adm:x:4:cax
tty:x:5:
disk:x:6:
lp:x:7:cupsys
mail:x:8:
news:x:9:
uucp:x:10:
man:x:12:
proxy:x:13:
kmem:x:15:
dialout:x:20:cupsys,cax
fax:x:21:
voice:x:22:
cdrom:x:24:haldaemon,cax
floppy:x:25:haldaemon,cax

cdrom:x:24:haldaemon,cax
floppy:x:25:haldaemon,cax
tape:x:26:
sudo:x:27:
audio:x:29:cax
dip:x:30:cax
www-data:x:33:
backup:x:34:
operator:x:37:
list:x:38:
irc:x:39:
src:x:40:
gnats:x:41:
shadow:x:42:
utmp:x:43:
video:x:44:cax
sasl:x:45:
plugdev:x:46:haldaemon,cax
staff:x:50:

plugdev:x:46:haldaemon,cax
staff:x:50:
games:x:60:
users:x:100:
nogroup:x:65534:
dhcp:x:101:
syslog:x:102:
klog:x:103:
crontab:x:104:
ssh:x:105:
lpadmin:x:106:cax
messagebus:x:107:
haldaemon:x:108:
slocate:x:109:
scanner:x:110:cupsys,cax
cax:x:1000:
admin:x:111:cax

---

### Post by nanotube on 2006-07-02
so, then, what happens when you enter command
```
sudo mv from_blabla to_blala
```
where from_blabla is where your file is, and to_blabla is where you are trying to move it.
it should ask for password, then you enter your user's password, and it should move the file. is that not what happens?

---

### Post by R3Mo on 2006-07-16
Works like a charm :)

to copy or move; sudo cp /home/ReMo/rar/rar /usr/lib/

---

### Post by neymac on 2006-07-19
> **JoWilly said:**
> If you want the best rar support in linux, get the original rar form rarlabs.com, here:

[http://www.rarlabs.com/rar/rarlinux-3.6.b4.tar.gz]("http://www.rarlabs.com/rar/rarlinux-3.6.b4.tar.gz")

In this archive you only need the file "rar"; copy it to /usr/bin

You can then handle all rar files up to the lastest versions with the archive manager.

PS: uninstall unrar, no need for it.

It worked fine for me. Thank you JoWilly!

---

### Post by djgenesis on 2006-07-27
Thanks joWilly :)

---

### Post by JoWilly on 2006-07-27
> **R3Mo said:**
> Works like a charm :)

to copy or move; sudo cp /home/ReMo/rar/rar /usr/lib/

:!: 

Copy it to /usr/bin  (not /usr/lib).

---

