---
title: "Ub 20.04 anybody installed &quot;Alarm Clock&quot; = &quot;Alarms&quot; ?"
date: 2020-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ra7411 on 2020-08-11
I've tried installing it with no success. 
There's a "Kalarms" app in the software facility, but it's dysfunctional, apparently won't run because it can't connect to some cloud service.

Thanks

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-08-11
I don't find any package named "Alarm Clock" or "Alarms" in the repositories. Exactly what package are you referring to?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-08-11
Have a look at gtimer (in the repos); I've never used it so can't say how good it is or exactly what it offers.

If using Xfce4, Xubuntu, you can add the xfce4-timer-plugin as a panel applet which again I have not used, so can not say how good it is.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-08-11
If you're open to suggestions, Gnome Clocks has an alarm.

---

### Post by ra7411 on 2020-08-11
It's in the Ubuntu 18.04 repository.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-08-12
> **ra7411 said:**
> It's in the Ubuntu 18.04 repository.
But it's not in the Ubuntu 20.04 repository, so it's not offered for Ubuntu 20.04 (your thread title does say 'Ub 20.04'). See attached search results. You need to find a substitute.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2020-08-12
Try the cairo-dock clock.... This clock has an alarm setting. Maybe it will help.

---

### Post by ra7411 on 2020-08-12
> **Dennis N said:**
> But it's not in the Ubuntu 20.04 repository, so it's not offered for Ubuntu 20.04 (your thread title does say 'Ub 20.04'). See attached search results. You need to find a substitute.

People use all sorts of apps that aren't in the regular repository for a particular version. 
It's common for people to ask about installation of apps that they use in newer versions.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-08-12
> **ra7411 said:**
> People use all sorts of apps that aren't in the regular repository for a particular version. 
It's common for people to ask about installation of apps that they use in newer versions.

Are you installing from a .deb file? There is one in 18.04. Trying to install from that .deb file with gdebi package installer will download and install needed dependencies of your application, if available, or else inform you what dependencies can't be satisfied and prevent installation.

---

### Post by ra7411 on 2020-08-13
> **Dennis N said:**
> Are you installing from a .deb file? There is one in 18.04. Trying to install from that .deb file with gdebi package installer will download and install needed dependencies of your application, if available, or else inform you what dependencies can't be satisfied and prevent installation.

I tried using deb early on and it fails with a message listing a few "things" that are missing. 

It's not a big problem, I'll continue using 18.04 as my main o/s, it does everything I need.
 20.04 is on a separate HD as an auxillary o/s that I've used to see if I can install everything I need..

---

### Post by OriTheEep on 2020-12-06
I too, find this alarm clock programme the most useful I've ever used, although there are (of course - how tedious) one or two things that could be improved. That it is missing from 20.04 repositories is the reason I have no intention of upgrading until it is.

---

