---
title: "13.10 Video issues (Streaming + MP4)"
date: 2014-01-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aquascrotum on 2014-01-19
Am having issues with videos on a Ubuntu machine.

With any streamed video (facebook / youtube), generally the audio stream will come through OK but video will be stuttered / unusable, you might get 1 frame every 7-10 or so seconds.  I had previously assumed this may be a flash issue and it didnt really worry me, but now am having similar issues with downloaded video files.

On a sample MP4, using VLC I have the same issue as with a streaming video - full audio but no / limited video framerate.  Using the same file in Ubuntu default player (Totem?),  I have substantially complete video (some stuttering) but no audio at all.

Am presuming that for downloaded files this is a codec issue?  But had thought that all codecs were included with VLC.  Low-res .MOV files are fine with both VLC and Totem.

Any and all suggestions as to how to resolve this gratefully received...

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-01-19
What hardware do you have, and is it powerful enough for some of the videos you want to view?  
I could not play any HD videos on my old machine with a sempron 2400+ cpu and 2GB ram with ATI 9200SE graphic card; maybe your machine is similar.

---

### Post by aquascrotum on 2014-01-20
PC is a Celeron 420 1.6 GHz, 2 GB RAM, Intel x86 MMX onboard GFX.

If its down to hardware then its a case of Ubuntu not controlling it very well...as the problems aren't mirrored in a (very slow!) Win Vista install that is dual booted.

---

