---
title: "14.04 power manager not authorized"
date: 2014-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Spectre630 on 2014-05-09
After upgrading to 14.04, power manager in Xubuntu will no longer hibernate my computer.  If I type "sudo pm-hibernate" at command line it works fine.  However, power manager is not hibernating my computer automatically.  I did the instructions for enabling hibernation ([user guide]("https://help.ubuntu.com/14.04/ubuntu-help/power-hibernate.html")) and have selected hiberate in power manager.  My monitors will go into standby, but it never hibernates.  When coming back up after standby I get a "Power Manager not authorized" balloon (see picture).

Any ideas?  It used to work fine before updating to 14.04.  

Additional info:
-I'm running power manager with --no-daemon because if I run it without I can't connect to power manager when trying to configure.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]253027[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by colwilson on 2014-05-10
Same here, although I'm using Lubuntu.

---

### Post by tm007 on 2014-05-10
Same! I'm using Lubuntu as well.

---

### Post by defg on 2014-05-14
Same on my PC and my girlfriends laptop. No solutions found yet.

---

### Post by Pseudo-Morph on 2014-05-14
This affects me also. I've submitted a bug report here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1319598](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1319598)

It would be helpful if you all head over and confirm you too are affected by this bug.

---

### Post by Spectre630 on 2014-05-14
> **Pseudo-Morph said:**
> This affects me also. I've submitted a bug report here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1319598](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1319598)

It would be helpful if you all head over and confirm you too are affected by this bug.

Done.  Thank you for opening a bug report.  I was thinking earlier that it mightn't be a bad idea to do so.

---

### Post by tm007 on 2014-05-15
> **Pseudo-Morph said:**
> This affects me also. I've submitted a bug report here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1319598](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xfce4-power-manager/+bug/1319598)

It would be helpful if you all head over and confirm you too are affected by this bug.

I've confirmed my being affected by this bug. Although, recently the  message has stopped popping up for me.

---

### Post by Pseudo-Morph on 2014-05-17
> **tm007 said:**
> recently the  message has stopped popping up for me.

Does this mean that power manager is able to send your machine to sleep, or that you're just not getting the 'Power Manager not authorized' error?

---

### Post by tm007 on 2014-05-19
Power manager sends my computer to suspend/sleep mode when I've set it. And I'm not getting the power manager error anymore. Weird thing is now it goes to sleep when I close the laptop and plugged in even though I set it to do "nothing."

---

### Post by legendre2 on 2014-05-23
I have the same problem as well. Goes to sleep when I haven't set it to, also screen is at about 5% brightness when it wakes up from suspend.

---

### Post by Spectre630 on 2014-07-22
Someone on the bug report site said it is a problem with Lightlocker.  I removed Lightlocker, reinstalled xscreensaver, and the problem has gone away.  So, if you're not attached to Lightlocker you can fix the problem.

---

### Post by sudocrem on 2014-08-20
Hi there,

It seems that you can keep light-locker.
The following fixed the problem permanently for me:

```
sudo aptitude purge light-locker light-locker-settings
sudo aptitude install light-locker light-locker-settings
```

I believe that removing and then re-installing fixed a policy problem somewhere. Hope this will help...
Cheers,

---

### Post by GoPool on 2014-08-20
I was having this issue as well. After reading the light-locker FAQs, I [fixed the problem]("http://tplinux.blogspot.com/2014/07/installing-xubuntu-1404-lts-on-ibm-t42p.html") by going to light locker settings and setting "Automatically lock the session" to "When the screensaver is deactivated." Now it works perfectly.

---

### Post by bradhaack on 2014-08-25
Is light-locker needed?  When I use the GUI, Settings-Power Manager-On AC-Monitor, is light-locker used?

Same issue, xubuntu

---

### Post by GoPool on 2014-08-25
Light-locker can be replace with xscreensaver for screen locking. However, light-locker works if you lock the screen when the screensaver is deactivated. Otherwise you get power-manager issues.

---

### Post by bradhaack on 2014-08-28
It was preventing mine from going to standby.  I fixed it by going to the  All Settings GUI, under Personal there is Light Locker Settings, turn off Light Locker.  I still have the display & computer sleep settings under power manager.

---

