---
title: "11.04 to 11.10 Upgrade. Power icon missing in unity"
date: 2011-10-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Vic20 on 2011-10-15
Initially, I had the common problem of a blank desktop with no unity. This despite unity being available and checked in CCSM

After several reboots, this seemed to resolve itself and thanks to some posts on here I've managed to install the proprietary ATI drivers.

Now, the only problem seems to be the power icon is missing (right top of screen) under Unity. It is there on the logon screen.

Vic

---

### Post by BobW on 2011-10-15
Try changing the desktop theme. I had several icons missing including the power icon and this fixed it for me.

For me the system/power menu was still there even with the icon missing, but the mouse had to be against the right edge of the screen to open it.

---

### Post by javier.i.delgado on 2011-10-15
Also not working for me. I tried changing the theme without luck.
Thanks!

---

### Post by ctdahle on 2011-10-15
Changing the theme from Ambiance to Radiance and then back again caused the power icon to appear for me...of course, without the power icon there, it was a bit of an adventure finding the settings menu so that I could change the theme...

---

### Post by David006 on 2011-10-15
> **Vic20 said:**
> .. Now, the only problem seems to be the power icon is missing (right top of screen) under Unity. It is there on the logon screen.

Vic

Check if the icon is still present, but masked by username.

Click on username (Switch User/Account), then move mouse to far top/right.  If Power/LogOut menu still present, then this is a Theme problem.

Workaround: Change to 'Radiance' theme.

---

### Post by Vic20 on 2011-10-15
Theme change from one to another and back worked thanks!

For info, the two contrast themes, if selected however lose the power icon.

---

### Post by svaens on 2011-10-26
I've tried the theme switching trick, 
no go.

Still no battery/power indicator. 

I was running on battery, and didn't realize it wasn't there until my laptop power light started flashing (a hardware indication that the battery is getting low). And then I realized I had no battery indicator icon.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by dvn3ch on 2011-12-26
I know that this post is a few months old but I had the problem on a friend's laptop and noticed that the power icon was hidden to the far right.  When I was able to get into the system settings, the theme "line" was blank (essentially I did not know what theme I was running, but it looked like Ambiance).  I just chose the Ambiance and the theme stayed the same but the power icon returned.  Logged out and in several times and restarted a few times and the power icon still appears.

This was on a 64bit upgrade from 11.04 to 11.10 on a Gateway lappy.

Hope that helps someone.:cool:

---

