---
title: "10.10 Broken and can't log in - please help"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tinsilver on 2010-10-13
Hi all,

I had just finished setting up 10.10, although it was running very slowly which was apparently due to the intel GMA910 graphics drivers. I was just installing virtualbox when system update ran and I saw it was prompting to install a new xorg.intel driver so I went ahead with it. 

Now I can't log in - I get the startup sound and I get a couple of keyring password dialogs. After I enter my password all I can see is the desktop background image and a big black X cursor. It doesn't proceed any further past this point. :(

Please help. I am trying to set this machine up for my wife before I have to go away on business so we can keep in touch over skype. What can I do - do I need to reinstall? I hope not as I have spent ages getting her email and music etc. on there.

Should I downgrade to a different version because of the issues with intel graphics? If so, which version of ubuntu is safe to use?

Many thanks for your help.

Ricky

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-10-14
The situation you describe happens when the graphical windowing system can't load.  

Try booting into recovery console to fix broken packages.  First, connect an ethernet cable, then when grub comes up, select the second choice: "recovery". If grub isn't visible, hold down the Shift key during the boot process and it should show up.  When it asks you to choose the type of boot, select the choice that says "root shell with network access". 

Make sure to enter all commands very carefully -- no typos -- because when you're root you can change, or trash, any part of your system.

Once you see the # command prompt, enter the following commands.  Hit "enter" after each one and wait for it to complete.```
dpkg --configure -a
apt-get update
apt-get upgrade
```The commands may generate questions of their own, which, if you can't answer, just come back here and ask.

Once (if?) it runs to completion, type "reboot" (without quotes) as a command, and keep your fingers crossed! :D

---

