---
title: "13.04, avconv or ffmpeg?"
date: 2013-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2013-05-26
what are we doing here ? 13.04 avconv or ffmpeg

I wrote and app and used avconv for the submprocess in python but is this what is still used in 13.04 or not ? 

Which is the default for transcoding audio etc. ?
Please advise

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2013-05-26
i got it I installed libav-tools from the software center all it normal again

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2013-05-26
The cool guys are using FFmpeg :)

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-05-26
There was a discussion about ffmpeg on the ubuntu-devel-dicuss mailing list, you can check it out here:

[https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2013-May/014547.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2013-May/014547.html)

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2013-05-27
It would be a great day if the FFmpeg rift were healed and we could all return to a focus on manipulating media files...

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2013-05-28
I just used avconv cause it's installed by default It doesn't matter as far as this app goes. I could easily change the subprocess call to ffmpeg instead

Thanks

---

### Post by ZeroFossilFuel on 2013-07-01
> **andrew.46 said:**
> It would be a great day if the FFmpeg rift were healed and we could all return to a focus on manipulating media files...

I second this motion. I just reloaded a laptop with 12.04 64bit and WinFF. Got tired of seeing the depreciated message so I changed the command line to point to avconv. Then I ran a full set of benchmarks comparing the two with differennt media formats, processing threads, etc. In EVERY CASE, ffmpeg won hands down. So avconv is better WHY??? Needless to say, I will be using ffmpeg despite the depreciated warning.

A message to both camps. Grow up and get over yourselves. This is no place for egos. The bigger enemy here is Microsoft. We need everyone on board working toward a common goal.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2013-07-01
> **ZeroFossilFuel said:**
>  The bigger enemy here is Microsoft. We need everyone on board working toward a common goal.

Mind you FFmpeg works quite nicely on Windows and its libraries are used in several Windows converters :)

---

