---
title: "200.04 lubuntu QTerminal"
date: 2021-03-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-03-10
Well; it aint nothing new, i messed up again. i expanded Q terminal, but went beyond the borders somehow, and i cant get it back. even Firefox dont look right.
i was trying to install WINE, an i mighta messed up there as well. i guess i should try to uninstall wine first.
[https://www.hightechbrain.com/2020/10/how-to-install-wine-on-ubuntu-2004.html](https://www.hightechbrain.com/2020/10/how-to-install-wine-on-ubuntu-2004.html)   -[this is was what i was using, method 1].
i got some feedback from the terminal. just dont know how to post it. its in qlipper. i did get it that far.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-03-10
I would firstly press <F11> and see if the borders return...   (it makes the `qterminal` go fullscreen and all borders are hidden, including panel).

If that's not your issue, and you can see the panel, I'd use the <kbd>right-click</kbd> on the `qterminal` window, to select 'move' and move terminal so you can find a border... OR probably far easier hold <kbd>Alt</kbd> down and drag the window so it's smaller using the right-click button (ie. use re-size window shortcut)

Both have worked for me.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-03-10
I don't know lxqt but there will presumably be a config file somewhere in your home folder (,config ?) for the terminal which you can rename or remove to get back to the default settings.

You can use Alt+F4 to close whatever window is currently selected.

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-03-12
Thanks to both of ya. i'll try an see what happens

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-03-12
Well, i made an improvement. an i also found out its my fault it got stuck that way. guess after 4 years some of the stuff is sticking in my brain that i was taught here.
i tried the <F11> thing first, it didnt quite work, but while there a gave it a rt. click and changed some of the settings. now it opens up, top left, like it used to., an i realized i was trying to get terminal to open bottom right., but forgot about it. ya know, or will, when ya get old. back to the drawing board for me.
the sides, when i messed up, worked as far as adjusting the size., i couldnt adjust the top an bottom. no matter now, at the moment.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-03-12
Well done.. 

I'd forgotten about right-click options (toggle borders, toggle menu).

I'd still try the right-click MOVE (on the panel on the qterminal [taskbar|task.manager widget]) so you can drag it using the mouse, until it's in a useful position.  If it goes all wrong (you make it worse), just exit using the ESC key.  (it's what I was trying to describe last time, I've found it useful..)

Sorry my post wasn't the most readable, I used <kbd></kbd> formatting which doesn't work here..  (on discourse & a few other sites it makes whatever is between the <kbd> (start) & </kbd> (end) look like a key; but it reduced the readability of my comment sorry (not aiding it as intended).

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-03-14
well, i got the jest of it. thats what counts. just wait, i'll mess up again. if i dont, i aint learning. ;~}

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-03-16
i got the Q-Terminal back, i think, but the pages arint displaying exact. i guess a picture would be appropriate. i have lots going on., dont everybody, i plan on getting back. ASAP. thanks

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-03-22
@guiverc;

it should work, but it dont. i promise a picture. might take a bit, time wise, but i got most threads solved, an would like to keep it this way.

---

### Post by oneleded on 2021-03-29
the F11 button worked this time. i'm glad i seen the part about using the escape key. that helped. ;~}. i'm working on adjustments. Q-terminal opens bottom left, i'm shooting for bottom right.
next i got to work on lubuntu itself.  its a little down and to the side.
got wine uninstalled.

---

