---
title: "Please help me guys! A total n00b here"
date: 2009-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by svircheto on 2009-11-14
Guys..I've just reinstalled twice my ubuntu because i didn't knew how to setup the resolution!

Please tell me how to setup my resolution for 1024x768..I can't work this way! How can I install my nVidia Drivers? Can I install them over Wine? I have GeForce FX5500.

Also PLEASE tell me how to install flash player on this ubuntu Firefox ..

I HAVE UBUNTU 9.10 KARMIC COALA..

Please also tell me how to make it look like Windows XP..

PLEASE! I NEED YOUR HELP! PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!!

---

### Post by emigrant on 2009-11-14
to install your grahpich drivers go to

System> administration> restricted drivers and enable it.

to set up the resolution

go to

System>Preference>display

hope that solves the probs

by the way, welcome to the forum. :)

---

### Post by svircheto on 2009-11-14
Thanks :). I've tried that, but when I install the nVidia drivers (Xorg is called), I get EVEN A SMALLER resolution at about 640x480..HOW CAN I EDIT THAT PLEASE? :S

---

### Post by ikacer on 2009-11-14
as was stated before,
System -> Preferences -> Display

Then set the display to what you want. For nvidia, I think it's under "X Server Display Configuration" or something like that.

---

### Post by svircheto on 2009-11-14
> **ikacer said:**
> as was stated before,
System -> Preferences -> Display

Then set the display to what you want. For nvidia, I think it's under "X Server Display Configuration" or something like that.

YES! BUT IT ISN'T SHOWING AN OPTION OVER 640X480!!! I cannot set it to else :(

---

### Post by TruebaseB on 2009-11-14
If you can't set a resolution from the display settings,you must edit the xorg.conf file.

If you are on gnome,start a terminal and write:

```
sudo su
```Press enter,type your password and then:

```
gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Or if you are running kde:

```
kate /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Find a line called "Modes" and make it look like this:

Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"

Save the file,restart the computer,or the X by pressing alt - ctrl - backspace,and it should work now.

Don't forget to make a backup of the xorg.conf file.

 ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/*xorg*.*conf* /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup
```

And if you getting an error about the xorg.conf at the startup,go to command line and type:

```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf-backup /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```Hope this helps.

---

### Post by emigrant on 2009-11-14
@TruebaseB,
even though i don't have an issue with my resolution,
my xorg.conf file doesnt have a line called 'modes' :(
whats the matter?


```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
    SubSection "Display"
        Virtual    1152 864
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by rativid on 2009-11-14
> **svircheto said:**
> YES! BUT IT ISN'T SHOWING AN OPTION OVER 640X480!!! I cannot set it to else :(
At first check nvidia kernel module is loaded:
```
lsmod | grep nvidia
```
if module loaded, install nvidia-settings, and try to change resolution with this tool (System->Administration->NVIDIA X Server Settings, or run nvidia-settings from terminal)

---

### Post by TruebaseB on 2009-11-14
@emigrant

If i'm not wrong,under the subsection "Display",you can remove the virtual resolution value,and you can put something like this:

```
Depth       24        
Modes      "000x000" "000x000"
(Where 000x000=The supported resolutions of your screen.For example "800x600".)
```But if you don't have a problem with your resolution,i suggest you to leave it as is.

Always make a backup of your xorg.conf before you edit something. :)

---

