---
title: "11.04 installation creates three linux-swap partitions"
date: 2011-08-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stepheny on 2011-08-20
I have installed Ubuntu 11.04 for a friend on his new laptop. First I shrunk his Windows partition and then installed Ubuntu 11.04 direct from the Live-CD. Everything worked perfectly and he is very pleased. 

However I noticed one strange thing. When I ran GParted on the installed Ubuntu Desktop I noted that Ubuntu was installed on an extended partition, /dev/sda4, with the ext4 root file system on /dev/sda7 and **three** linux swap partitions each of 7.85 GiB. Only one of these swaps partitions is "on", ie with a key next to it. The other two seem to be just wasted space. Why did the install partition three swap spaces?

On a similar theme, on my own machine I installed 11.04 next to my 10.04. This time it installed two additional swap spaces (see problem above). I removed them both and altered the fstab to the UUID of the existing 10.04 swap space and it works perfectly. So my second question is why doesn't the install use existing swap spaces rather than creating new one(s)?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-08-20
If you have existing partitions and do auto install then it will create new partitions. If partitions exist you need to use manual install and reuse the existing root and then it will find the existing swap automatically. But on auto install it always creates a new swap.

Normal auto install first time, would be sda5 for root and sda6 for swap. So it seems like multiple installs were done.

---

