---
title: "16.04 - removing installed apps"
date: 2018-03-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-04
My 16.04 LTS is installed on a 16GB SSD and it is now less than 1GB to full. So I need to free some space by removing apps that I don't use. When I click on the "Remove" button in the Ubuntu Software Installed list, the apps always comes back in a few seconds. How can I remove software that I don't use?

Please advise.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-04
the software center is buggy, even in later releases. it may take a restart to update it's cache.

also you might want to run these commands in terminal:
sudo apt clean
sudo apt autoremove

that should clean the cache on anything downloaded & left overs from stuff removed.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-04
Thank you very much. They worked. I now have 1.8GB free space.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-04
you might also gain a little more by cleaning out the log folder

sudo rm -rf /var/log/*

reboot after you do that, don't worry the important 1's will be recreated at boot. that should get rid of old logs, backup logs, etc...

that might get you to at least 2gb free ?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-03-04
You should also remove unused localizations (language packs that you don't use) A convenient way to do all these cleaning is bleachbit. It is in the repository. Use bleachbit as administrator to clean system ( choose your cleaning options: under apt, check autoclean, autoremove, clean. I suggest leaving pkg list unchecked) also check localization to remove language packs. Bleachbit without administrator is for cleaning your $HOME, things like firefox cache..

Avoid checking experimental options (deep scan, free disk space and memory) you should be fine. Some people here would rather use a bunch of cryptic commands manually and separately to do the same thing, but bleachbit allows the convenience of doing all with one click.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-03-05
Hmm, uninstalling programs is somewhat like trying to unscramble an egg.

The best way to do it, it to re-install a server version, with no GUI.  Then add a simple GUI such as XFCE and after that add only the programs you really want.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2018-03-05
> **HermanAB said:**
> Hmm, uninstalling programs is somewhat like trying to unscramble an egg.

The best way to do it, it to re-install a server version, with no GUI.  Then add a simple GUI such as XFCE and after that add only the programs you really want.

Yeah maybe the best option is Linux from Scratch where you build everything from the ground up to your heart's delight. but Ubuntu is Linux for human and some people actually want to start using the OS quickly rather than spending hrs tinkering with it. :)

No, uninstalling program is not like unscrambling eggs, the latter violates the second law of thermodynamics.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-05
This did free up additional 0.3GB for me. Now I have a total of 1.9GB free space.

Thank you so much.

---

### Post by Xinghao_Chen on 2018-03-05
I am at entry-level with Linux/Ubuntu. In my understanding of things, for what is worth a REMOVE button out there on the screen should mean it.

To Kerry_s: Thank you for providing specific instructions and they are very effective.

To Herman AB and MonkyBrain20122: Thank you for the inputs and I am sure they are useful. Unfortunately, they appear out of my league and I don't know how to start.

Thank you all.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2018-03-05
no worrys, just hang in there. the next lts releases will offer a minimal option when you install, so you can add only what you want to use. its pretty nice

---

