---
title: "14.04 Higher Temps???"
date: 2014-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2014-05-04
Hi,

I upgraded to 14.04 from 13.10.

Lately I've noticed the temperature of my computer hovers around 55-60 C.  Is this acceptable?  I also noticed this is about 15 degrees higher than when I was running 13.10.

Does anyone have any input on this?  Should I be concerned?

Thank you in advance.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-05-04
What is and is not acceptable depends somewhat on the machine -- and there are some adjustments that might benefit some machines.

Could you provide us with the details of your machine?

Best wishes.

---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2014-05-04
Hi!  Thanks for your reply.

I am using a Lenovo Z580 with an Intel® Core&#8482; i5-3210M CPU @ 2.50GHz × 4; Intel® Ivybridge Mobile; 8GB RAM, 750GB HDD.

Let me know if you need any other info.

Thanks.

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-04
Did you experience any particular part of that Lappy to be heating up more than it was before the update? Statistically speaking that temperature range is fine but you should keep an eye on it if it gets alarmingly high with particular process or in particular area (especially HDD since if my memory serves me right, it doesn't have a vent for it).

---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2014-05-04
@Goten007
Thanks for the input.  I don't recall any area inparticular getting especially warm prior to the upgrade to 14.04. Although, now, I do notice the area where the HDD is located does get a bit warm but not alarmingly so.

---

### Post by LastDino on 2014-05-04
You can specifically check temp's by using software like CPUID, not sure if it works on Linux directly but you can probably google it. Or maybe someone here can suggest something similar counterpart for Linux.

---

### Post by cessanfrancisco on 2014-05-04
Thanks!  I have lm-sensors and tlp installed.  They both seem to work pretty good.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2014-05-04
Use htop to make sure the CPU is not loaded and make sure the CPU is throttling down when idle (look at cpufreq-info).

The other possibility is that there has been a change in kernel to run fan slower at idle. As long as the fan ramps up under load, it's not a big deal.

---

