---
title: "~/.bash_profile or ~/.profile???"
date: 2008-10-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tperwez on 2008-10-05
Hi Everyone

I noticed that I do not have ~/.bash_profile file or the ~/.bash_login file by default. I do have ~/.profile as well as ~/.bashrc file. I was going to add some aliases so that my login shell can read them when it's started.

Do folks create their own ~/.bash_profile file and then add aliases, or just add these aliases to the ~/.profile? What are the advantages or disadvantages of either approach? I would appreciate. Regards.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-05
For some reason .bashrc is now in /etc/skel, it is there so that any changes are system wide except for root who has it's own .bashrc.

Jim

---

### Post by mojoman on 2008-10-05
> **tperwez said:**
> Hi Everyone

I noticed that I do not have ~/.bash_profile file or the ~/.bash_login file by default. I do have ~/.profile as well as ~/.bashrc file. I was going to add some aliases so that my login shell can read them when it's started.

Do folks create their own ~/.bash_profile file and then add aliases, or just add these aliases to the ~/.profile? What are the advantages or disadvantages of either approach? I would appreciate. Regards.

If I remember correctly it goes something like this :

If these files don't exist, the system reads the default file (this is pretty standard with any configuration file and usually they are in /etc).

.bash_profile is the standard file but bash allows for two synonyms (these comes from other shells I think), called .login and .profile so you should be fine using profile (though if you were using e.g. korn shell and bash and wanted different stuff in them you would use .profile for your korn shell and .bash_profile for bash).

The .bash_profile is read only buy a login shell whereas .bashrc is read by all shells (i.e. subshells as well). No .bashrc, no commands read when opening a subshell.

/mojoman

---

### Post by tperwez on 2008-10-05
Hi Jim

[QUOTE=cariboo907;5911874]For some reason .bashrc is now in /etc/skel, it is there so that any changes are system wide except for root who has it's own .bashrc.
/QUOTE]

Thanks but I thought I should not worry abut my ~/.bashrc file because it is not read by the login shell. My understanding is that .bashrc file is read by subshells. Please someone correct me if I am wrong. Regards.

---

### Post by jamesrl on 2008-10-05
When you create a new user, the files from /etc/skel are copied into the home directory for each user (which the user can then change).  /etc/skel means for skeleton files.

Things in .bash_profile do not get loaded automatically when you do a normal graphical login [unless you change some configuration files].  They only get loaded if you login to bash through ssh or without X (e.g., Alt-F[1-6].  

I'd suggest just using ~/.profile for settings you want loaded the first time you login, and ~/.bashrc for the settings that are in there by default.
Settings in .bashrc gets loaded everytime you start bash (e.g. if you go to a terminal and run bash multiple times and have a variable like 
PATH=$PATH:/other/location
).
your path will have /other/location in it several times.

---

### Post by jamesrl on 2008-10-05
There is also a system wide config files for these, such as 
/etc/profile
/etc/bash.bashrc

from the bash manpage (man bash):
> INVOCATION
       A  login shell is one whose first character of argument zero is a -, or
       one started with the --login option.

       An interactive shell is one started without  non-option  arguments  and
       without the -c option whose standard input and error are both connected
       to terminals (as determined by isatty(3)), or one started with  the  -i
       option.   PS1 is set and $- includes i if bash is interactive, allowing
       a shell script or a startup file to test this state.

       The following paragraphs describe how bash executes its startup  files.
       If  any  of  the files exist but cannot be read, bash reports an error.
       Tildes are expanded in file names as described below under Tilde Expan&#8208;
       sion in the EXPANSION section.

       When  bash is invoked as an interactive login shell, or as a non-inter&#8208;
       active shell with the --login option, it first reads and executes  com&#8208;
       mands  from  the file /etc/profile, if that file exists.  After reading
       that file, it looks for ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login, and ~/.profile,
       in  that order, and reads and executes commands from the first one that
       exists and is readable.  The --noprofile option may be  used  when  the
       shell is started to inhibit this behavior.

       When  a  login  shell  exits, bash reads and executes commands from the
       file ~/.bash_logout, if it exists.

       When an interactive shell that is not a login shell  is  started,  bash
       reads  and  executes  commands  from /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc, if
       these files exist.  This may be inhibited by using the  --norc  option.
       The  --rcfile  file option will force bash to read and execute commands
       from file instead of /etc/bash.bashrc and ~/.bashrc.

       When bash is started non-interactively, to  run  a  shell  script,  for
       example, it looks for the variable BASH_ENV in the environment, expands
       its value if it appears there, and uses the expanded value as the  name
       of  a  file to read and execute.  Bash behaves as if the following com&#8208;
       mand were executed:
              if [ -n "$BASH_ENV" ]; then . "$BASH_ENV"; fi
       but the value of the PATH variable is not used to search for  the  file
       name.


---

### Post by tperwez on 2008-10-05
Hi jamessrl

Thanks for clearing a few thing up for me. However, I do want to make sure of one thing: are you saying that at graphic login, no dot (.) file is read?

Which dot file is read when I open a Terminal window after graphic login? Is it ~/.profile if ~/.bash_profile does not exist? Best regards.

---

### Post by mojoman on 2008-10-06
> **tperwez said:**
> Hi jamessrl

Thanks for clearing a few thing up for me. However, I do want to make sure of one thing: are you saying that at graphic login, no dot (.) file is read?

Which dot file is read when I open a Terminal window after graphic login? Is it ~/.profile if ~/.bash_profile does not exist? Best regards.

If .bash_profile does not exist the shell will read .profile.

A graphical login is just a GUI for a CLI login (i.e. whether you login on the command line and then start x-server manually or if you have x-server started automatically and provide you with a login screen pretty much amounts to the same thing) so I reckon that that the .bash_profile would be read (or, in your case, the .profile since you don't have .bash_profile). If you would, after having logged into your graphical environment, start a terminal emulator I reckon this would run in a sub shell, i.e. the .bashrc would be read and not .bash_profile (or .profile for that matter).

/mojoman

---

### Post by tperwez on 2008-10-06
Hi mojoman

No, my system (Ubuntu Hardy) is not doing as you suggested. In fact, my .profile is NOT read at all at the graphic login! My .profile file has a line:

source .bash_aliases

After graphic login I open the Terminal and when I try to use aliases, they are not recognized, unless I issue the command

source .profile

However, if I put the line

source .bash_aliases

in my .bashrc file and then open Terminal after graphic login, these aliases are recognized just fine.

So, what is going on? What in the world are .bash_profile (and .profile) files for? Only to be read with non-graphic login? What a waste???? Somebody gotta know this logic (I think) and I would like it to be explained. The "Learning bash" book from O'Reilley gives just the generic explanation and as I just wote above is not much meaningful.

Thanks a lot for your answers. Regards.

---

### Post by jamesrl on 2008-10-12
According to /etc/skel/.profile:
>  # ~/.profile: executed by the command interpreter for login shells.
# This file is not read by bash(1), if ~/.bash_profile or ~/.bash_login
# exists.
# see /usr/share/doc/bash/examples/startup-files for examples.
# the files are located in the bash-doc package.


It will read from /etc/profile first, then try ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bash_login and then ~/.profile.  So first check that you don't have any of those files defined.  Also check how you source the file (to make sure bash can find the right file).
```

source $HOME/.bash_aliases

```

Another alternative is to just always use .bashrc to start everything.  If you want to be sure you don't load bash multiple times, you could just enclose everything in .bashrc with
```

if [ -z $BASHRC_LOADED ]; then  ## check if $BASHRC_LOADED is undefined
BASHRC_LOADED="True"  ## defines $BASHRC_LOADED so if statement above fails on future calls
...
 (normal stuff in .bashrc )
...
fi
```

---

### Post by jamesrl on 2008-10-12
Ok a little snooping:
```
cd /etc 
grep -R profile | grep -v Binary

```
helped me find that gdm (gnome display manager) loads $HOME/.profile via /etc/gdm/Xsession in the following snippet:
```

# First read /etc/profile and .profile
test -f /etc/profile && . /etc/profile
test -f "$HOME/.profile" && . "$HOME/.profile"
# Second read /etc/xprofile and .xprofile for X specific setup
test -f /etc/xprofile && . /etc/xprofile
test -f "$HOME/.xprofile" && . "$HOME/.xprofile"

```

it doesn't load .bash_profile or .bash_login when starting an X session.
So i really would guess its because you did source .bash_aliases as opposed to source $HOME/.bash_aliases

---

