---
title: "699MB 10.04 file too large for 700MB CD?"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by williamh120 on 2010-05-02
I am attempting to burn the ISO for Lucid Lynx final onto a 700MB CD. The ISO file is 699MB, but Windows reports that the size on disk is 733MB and thus CD Burner XP refuses to burn the file, stating that it's too large for a CD.

Why this discrepancy on file sizes? I've noticed this with other files as well, suddenly it's a bit of a problem, as you can see!

---

### Post by hackb0y294 on 2010-05-02
Try a different burning software, like InfraRecorder, or ImgBurn. I've had this problem also, it seems to be a problem with the software.

---

### Post by NFblaze on 2010-05-02
I second trying ImgBurn.

---

### Post by sakisds on 2010-05-02
As everyone said, burn it with ImgBurn, it worked for me.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-05-02
Make sure that you are burning it as a disk **image** and **not** trying to **save the file itself** to a CD as a file (a mistake many people make).  The image should end up as the entire CD, not a file on the CD.

If you do not have a Windows program to burn a CD image, you can install freeware called ISO Recorder.  One explaination of it is at [http://www.petri.co.il/how_to_write_iso_files_to_cd.htm](http://www.petri.co.il/how_to_write_iso_files_to_cd.htm) and it can be downloaded from [http://isorecorder.alexfeinman.com/isorecorder.htm](http://isorecorder.alexfeinman.com/isorecorder.htm)

Then writing a disk image in Windows is as simple as right clicking on the iso file in Windows Explorer and selecting **Copy image to CD**.

Note that when you insert a blank CD in Ubuntu itself, it brings up a version of Brasero that can add files to a CD, but not burn images.  Close that, and bring up the full Brasero program from Applications > Sound and Video.  That will have a selection to Burn Image.  Or you can use k3b if so inclined.

---

### Post by drillerccg on 2010-05-02
I tried to burn the CD in Windows 7 but it kept getting stuck at around 450MB. Gave up after junking 3 CDs, popped in the 9.04 Ubuntu loaded hard drive in the laptop, download, and burn it in Ubuntu. No problems at all. Took 5 min to burn.

---

### Post by crashme on 2010-05-11
The image does seem to exceed the capacities of my hardware - both the drive and the discs are somewhat ancient I have to admit.

I am using Brasero from Ubuntu 9.10 to write the image. It seems to write OK, but on trying to boot from the drive the installer fails and it goes into a desktop.

If I read the image back from the drive, it's missing a few bytes:

$ dd if=/dev/sr0 of=test.iso

results:
733419520 ubuntu-10.04-desktop-i386.iso
733331456 test.iso
733347840 test2.iso (another disc)

Great fun, I think I'll splash out on a new CD R/W disc, maybe it will help.

---

