---
title: "Not sure how to categorize- major slowdowns/crashes in Koala"
date: 2009-12-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ticthak@AOL.com on 2009-12-24
I had been otherwise occupied with bashing other people's Wintel 'puters with various-sized hammers (I'm very good at guessing the correct size/weight) for some months now and just recently got back to Linuxing my life again. I installed Koala on a number of laptops and desktops (8 now?), and eliminated any of the major problems I initially encountered by not using GRUB2 (absolutely no problem w/GRUB, so why this big push to GRUB2?)I'm also kicking myself for using ext4 for most of these installs, when something screws up too much, it's nice to load Puppy or Knoppix really fast to fix stuff, and they can't see that yet (and I haven't gotten around to throw some more service stuff into a 'buntu CD). Anyway, I had my office machine running great 'til a couple of weeks ago on Koala (1Ghz PIII w/512 MB RAM, a clean (single)install on an 80 GB drive transferred from another machine, no weird or cutting-edge hardware) and then I installed a bunch of the audio packages (for production work) and ClamAV, Avast (4Linux), AVG(Linux), and Avira (under WINE) to do the prelim scans on the MS-malinfested  drives people bring in. These AV apps except for ClamAV don't load at boot, and I only care about using them for scanning, not real-time blocking. Shortly thereafter, the machine started to bog down very seriously (we're talking 1 or even 2 orders of magnitude here)on all DEs as soon as I would start to run almost any application load (CPU, RAM, and swap all peaking to 100% almost immediately and the _HDD activity goes through the roof and stay there_). Checking the forums, I thought it might be the rsyslog problem, and rooting in from the recovery mode before the DE login seems to help, but very temporarily (I'll get maybe 5 more minutes of relatively normal work done than otherwise); I haven't upgraded to the -17 kernel that purports to permanently fix this because it is obviously not the only problem; many admin and other tasks will frequently crash hard enough to wipe the kbd, mouse, display, etc. in varying combinations. I ran memtest for a few hours w/ no problems found, and I don't think the CPU is having problems until it's maxed out, it's not overheating at all. I did get one lead in that it returned an error in the MySQL server(s) and core(s) that a lot of the audio and admin apps use, I'm currently subtracting those MySQL packages, progressively, but this is extremely time-consuming and removes most of the audio apps I've spent hours installing. Plus, most of these attempts are currently failing at one point or another- if Synaptic doesn't hard-crash, dpkg will quit with an error. Using the system monitor shows no processes that really consume resources for any long period of time, and the total (with maybe 3 windows and 2 or 3 applications running) is showing at most 60%. Of course, if I have rsyslog stopped, I don't have logs.
     I really think there's probably something simple and easy I'm missing here, and I'd really rather not nuke and reinstall. Anybody have any bright ideas? I don't remember running into operational problems like this with Hardy (last install last year) or other distros (and I wouldn't be hesitating to install Puppy or Puppitup if there weren't just 1 or 2 current deal-breakers there that might be resolved at any moment)- lots of other problems, some easily solved, some not, but I'm scratching my head here (and honestly not afraid of some general technical explanations either, I'm still a noob after years, but I like to read, think, and learn...) Thanks, to all the volunteers in open-source for building something wonderful in this world...

---

### Post by ticthak@AOL.com on 2009-12-24
An interim progress report- I used the recovery mode boot just a few minutes ago and ran dpkg, to find the -17 kernel update has just been pushed out (I would have had to manually update just a day ago), along with a bunch of updates that Synaptic has missed in the past 2 days. More later, after the bus crashes through the guardrail to go spiraling into the abyss...

---

### Post by ticthak@AOL.com on 2009-12-25
Tried again last night w/ slightly better results, only it's 3 or 4 times slower. I'm trying to repair certain things using the LiveCD, but I can't access the installed root (improper permissions), can't chown the install, not sure how to proceed right now.

---

### Post by ticthak@AOL.com on 2009-12-28
Well, I have to list this one as solved, as I'm currently using my office desktop right now with Koala booting just fine. I tried rebooting at least 30 or 40 times over the past 3 days, tried using the recovery mode w/dpkg and console sessions to fix this mess, and things got progressively worse until _none_ of the GRUB choices would work (I thought I'd try to fix rather than reinstall, and just got carried away).
     Then I just started booting with a Puppy CD and working at catching up on my lost work time as well as trying to continue to fix the broken Koala installation. I gparted'd a couple of extra ext3 partitions in, thinking I would at least backup my /home and some other stuff for recovery, and **_lo!I say unto ye! I spazzed out and rebooted last night with no LiveCD in the drive and my desktop came up!_** No data loss!, no slowdowns (well, very minor)! Yayy!Whoo-hoo!!Yay!!
    Do I know what really happened? Nope. Do I know what caused it? Not a clue. How did I fix it? You tell me, I usually just make wild guesses, but I'm very good at it (see OP about hammers and Wintel). Could I duplicate it (are results reproducible?)-who knows? But if someone else winds up in a similar situation, when your options are wild stabs-in-the-dark or reinstall, maybe try gparted and resize your partition (even a little bit)- I did notice that it forced my new partitions to end on sector ends, but that shouldn't have affected the start of sda1 where Koala was...Could it?

---

