---
title: "11.04 Natty - No /var/log/messages ?!"
date: 2011-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hkphooey on 2011-06-02
Hi,

Just started up my Log Viewer on a fresh install of Natty, and it complains there are a bunch of log files missing:

```
/var/log/daemon.log.1: Error stating file '/var/log/daemon.log.1': No such file or directory
/var/log/user.log: Error stating file '/var/log/user.log': No such file or directory
/var/log/lpr.log: Error stating file '/var/log/lpr.log': No such file or directory
/var/log/debug: Error stating file '/var/log/debug': No such file or directory
/var/log/messages: Error stating file '/var/log/messages': No such file or directory
/var/log/lpr.log.1: Error stating file '/var/log/lpr.log.1': No such file or directory
/var/log/user.log.1: Error stating file '/var/log/user.log.1': No such file or directory
/var/log/mail.info: Error stating file '/var/log/mail.info': No such file or directory
/var/log/mail.warn: Error stating file '/var/log/mail.warn': No such file or directory
/var/log/debug.1: Error stating file '/var/log/debug.1': No such file or directory
/var/log/messages.1: Error stating file '/var/log/messages.1': No such file or directory
/var/log/daemon.log: Error stating file '/var/log/daemon.log': No such file or directory
/var/log/btmp: You don't have enough permissions to read the file.
```

Indeed, when I check, I see they aren't there any more. After a little digging I understand that the messages are caused by migrating my ~/.gconf directory over from the previous installation and the file ~/.gconf/apps/gnome-system-logs/%gconf.xml which contains information for gnome-system-logs about which log files to expect. 

HOWEVER, this raises a number of questions. 

1) Why are these files not here any more? I don't know of a single Linux distribution which doesn't have a /var/log/messages file. 

2) Is the lack of these files to do with changes in Natty, or is there something badly wrong with my machine?

3) If these have been removed on purpose, where should I be looking for this information  now? 

and 4) Howcome this information wasn't broadcast to the community? One simple solution would be to retain the file /var/log/messages and fill it with the message "This file isn't used any more, please look in xxxx" 

A bit perplexed here. Can anyone at least confirm that it isn't just an isolated issue?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-06-02
your .gconf is borked, either rename it or wipe it (it will be recreated without all these complaints)

---

### Post by hkphooey on 2011-06-02
> **dino99 said:**
> your .gconf is borked, either rename it or wipe it (it will be recreated without all these complaints)

Thanks, as I note in my post, I understand that migrating my .gconf folder causes the errors to show in Log Viewer. In fact I identify the exact file which holds that info: your solution of renaming the entire .gconf folder is a little drastic! 

However, my question was not "How to fix it?". My question was "Why is there no /var/log/messages any more?". And three more questions in fact ...

---

### Post by manthony121 on 2011-06-02
> **hkphooey said:**
> Thanks, as I note in my post, I understand that migrating my .gconf folder causes the errors to show in Log Viewer. In fact I identify the exact file which holds that info: your solution of renaming the entire .gconf folder is a little drastic! 

However, my question was not "How to fix it?". My question was "Why is there no /var/log/messages any more?". And three more questions in fact ...

I don't have any advice, just an "I agree" message.  I have a brand new 11.04 installation on my laptop, and no /var/log/messages file.  It seems strange, but I have other fires to put out right now.

---

### Post by hkphooey on 2011-06-02
Well thanks for the confirmation. Maybe I should move this to the developer list or something. I'm pretty sure its not a bug -- seems more deliberate to me -- so I can't file a bug report.

---

### Post by bitpicker on 2011-06-04
Looks like someone decided that /var/log/messages was an unnecessary duplicate.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rsyslog/+bug/762505/comments/8](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/rsyslog/+bug/762505/comments/8)

But it would have been prudent to at least leave a symlink, so that a tail -f /var/log/messages doesn't mislead you by showing you the last messages log written before the upgrade to 11.04, leaving you wondering why nothing is going on... As it did, of course, me. :confused:

---

### Post by mc4man on 2011-06-04
If you'd like to get back the method shown here, post 2
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1728570](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1728570)

---

### Post by hkphooey on 2011-06-04
Thanks guys. For some reason my searches for /var/log/messages in the forums didn't turn up anything (maybe / is not understood to be a character by the search?)

Anyway, it does seem that the developers have removed /var/log/messages and that all the information is now in /var/log/syslog. I can see that removing duplication is a good thing, but still feel they might have a) put a message in /var/log/messages telling people where to look, or b) symlinked the files together, which is what I'm going to try. 

I work on a lot of computers -- many of them servers -- covering Ubuntu, Centos, Redhat, OpenBSD, and probably a few other OSes, and I instinctively go to /var/log/messages to see what the problem is. Now I have to change this behaviour, but only when I'm looking at Ubuntu 11.04. 

Interestingly dino99, the original respondent to this post is in both the earlier forum post on this matter, and also in the Natty bug report!

---

### Post by l0ginsh3ll on 2011-07-02
Hi, I am using a fresh installation of Ubuntu 11.04 64 bit and the following solved this for me 

sudo apt-get install inetutils-syslogd

~L0gin Sh3ll

---

### Post by galvatron408 on 2011-07-24
awww damn.... i just noticed this today!

yea, why didn't they symlink messages if they thought they didn't need dups! I'm ganna symlink it now...

ln -s syslog messages

oops, messages exists... ok, mv messages messages.old :)

---

