---
title: "how to dual boot with win 7 while ubuntu already installed"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by altjx on 2010-10-13
I already have Ubuntu 10.10 (64-bit) installed. I can't get WoW working for **** in here so I've decided to just go ahead and dual boot with Windows 7. 

Can someone explain to me how I can get Windows 7 on this  machine without overwriting Ubuntu, GRUB, or any files? I'd like to get the GRUB menu as well.

Not sure why Windows 7 was overwritten anyway, I selected the side-by-side option.

---

### Post by cgroza on 2010-10-13
You need a Ubuntu Live CD to install grub after. Install Windows 7 on its partition and after you do this you won't be able to boot Ubuntu. You must then boot the Live CD and install GRUB from there.  You can find instructions on the web.

I don't think there is another easy way because Windows will just overwritte GRUB on install.

---

### Post by altjx on 2010-10-13
> **cgroza said:**
> You need a Ubuntu Live CD to install grub after. Install Windows 7 on its partition and after you do this you won't be able to boot Ubuntu. You must then boot the Live CD and install GRUB from there.  You can find instructions on the web.

I don't think there is another easy way because Windows will just overwritte GRUB on install.

Mind help directing me to a link with the instructions? I know some things changed between 9.10, 10.4 and 10.10 I think at least.

---

### Post by altjx on 2010-10-13
Followed these settings

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling) from LiveCD

Doesn't work. I reboot, windows still comes up. I go to the second method... I get stuck at grub-setup -d

It says
grub-setup: option requires an argument -- 'd'
Try 'grub-setup --help' for more information.

Sigh

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-10-13
It sounds like you have gotten W7 installed, boot the live cd and run the bootscript in my signature and post in code tags. Code tags can be generated by clicking on the # in the reply then put the text in between. This will tell what is where and we can get you up and running most likely.

---

