---
title: "[SOLVED] Terminal window will not open"
date: 2008-04-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by johnapeterson on 2008-04-08
Hello,
I am having trouble getting my terminal window open.  When I go to **Applications>Accessories>Terminal** may task bar at the bottom of the desktop screen will say "Starting Terminal", but after a few seconds it disappears never opening the terminal window.  It was working before, and the only thing that I major thing I recall doing before this problem came up was setting up dual monitors using xinerama in my xorg.conf.

Unfortunately, if someone needs me to get to my xorg.conf file to help with this, I do not know how to get to it without using the terminal.

Is it possible that terminal and something else are trying to share the same spot in the computer, and that is causing the problem?

As you can probably tell, I am still a newbie.

Thanks in advance for any help.

John

---

### Post by Crafty Kisses on 2008-04-08
You may want to try doing:
```
Alt+F2
```
Then when the prompt comes up, type in:
```
firefox
```
Select run in Terminal, and see if that does anything for you.

---

### Post by johnapeterson on 2008-04-08
I tried Alt-F2, but nothing happens.

---

### Post by ibutho on 2008-04-08
Alt-F2 should show a dialogue box for you to enter commands to run. If Alt-F2 won't work as it should, one way I can think of checking whats wrong with gnome-terminal is to create a new launcher for your desktop. The command to be run by the launcher should be "xterm" (minus the quotes). When you click on the icon, xterm should be launched and you can then run the command "gnome-terminal" from there. Hopefully that will print some error messages that will give you a clue about whats wrong with gnome-terminal.

---

### Post by johnapeterson on 2008-04-08
OK.  How would a set up a launch?  What are the steps for doing that?

---

### Post by johnapeterson on 2008-04-08
OK. Got the launcher going.  When I run "gnome-terminal I get the follow (sorry I could not copy and paste it:

The program 'gnome-terminal; received an X window system error.
This probably reflects a bug in the program.
The error was 'BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation)'.
  (Details: serial 111 error_code 2 request_code 78 minor_code 0)
  (Note to programmers: normally, X errors are reported asynchronously;
   that is, you will receive the error a while after causing it.
   To debug your program, run it with the --sync command line
   option to change this behavior.  You can get a meaningful
   backtrace from your debugger if you break on the gdk_x_error() function.)

I need to know what to do in newbie terms.

Thanks

---

### Post by ibutho on 2008-04-08
I think you have a similar problem to the one reported [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-terminal/+bug/72956") as a bug. Disabling xinerama should make gnome-terminal work again, but if you want to keep it enabled, edit ~/.bash_profile and add the line below. After that logout and back in again.
```
export XLIB_SKIP_ARGB_VISUALS=1
```
Does that help? I got the solution from [here]("http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=354767").

---

### Post by johnapeterson on 2008-04-08
I was able to open up my xorg.conf file by using Text Editor in Applications it is as follows:

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon May 14 14:27:06 GMT 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Xinerama"
    Screen      0  "Default Screen[0]" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Default Screen[1]" LeftOf "Default Screen[0]"
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    Option         "Xinerama" "on"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "vbe"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "v4l"
EndSection

#Section "ServerFlags"
#    Option         "Xinerama" "true"
#EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "TFT Monitor"
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "CRT Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 130.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 100.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device[0]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device[1]"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen[0]"
    Device         "Device[0]"
    Monitor        "CRT Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "RenderAccel" "true"
    Option         "UseEdidFreqs" "true"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen[1]"
    Device         "Device[1]"
    Monitor        "TFT Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "RenderAccel" "true"
    Option         "UseEdidFreqs" "true"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x1024"
    EndSubSection
EndSection



Is there something in here that might be causing the problem?

Thanks

---

### Post by johnapeterson on 2008-04-09
I got it going by turning of Xinerama and doing Twin View, although my left monitor is on the right of the desk top (but I guess I can physically move it to the other side.

Thanks for all of your help!

---

### Post by John_T on 2008-07-20
I had more or less exactly the same problem.

Adding this:

```
Section "Extensions"
    Option "Composite" "false"
EndSection
```

to the end of **/etc/X11/xorg.conf** fixed it, as per [this launchpad thread]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux-restricted-modules-2.6.17/+bug/58232/comments/27").  Note that there are a couple of solutions.

If, as was the case for me, you couldn't open a terminal with which to "sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf", you can use ctrl-Alt-F6 to get a command line login, and do it from the command line you'll get there.

```
sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

It's a good idea to make a backup of your xorg.conf file once in a while, in case you need to roll back from a stuff up, or get bitten by an update.

---

