---
title: "Eepc 701"
date: 2015-08-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2015-08-21
Evening, it's been a while since I was last here, been busy! 

 I have an Eepc, 4 GIG version and want to install Lubuntu. Only a 4 GIG HD so a tad challenged! Have tried the Core and Minimal installs and only ever get as far as a black screen and blinking cursor. (Have done the Grub edit grub non desert thing). Didn't work. 

Should  mention that a full install from a live CD won't fit on the disk. 

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2015-08-21
Does the EeePC701 have a SD card slot?

Also, how much RAM does it have?

---

### Post by sudodus on 2015-08-21
I installed Xubuntu + Lubuntu Core on a newer eeePC for a friend earlier today :-) That was easier, because it has a fairly big hard disk drive. After installation, Lubuntu 14.04.1 LTS (or point version 2 or 3) uses less than 4 GB, so it is possible, but maybe not a good idea, because you will fill the SSD after a short while unless you are extremely careful, and store all personal files in pendrives or flash cards.

The easy alternative is to 'install' a persistent live system or maybe even boot a persistent live system from a pendrive and use the whole fast SSD for persistence:

1. make a 4 GB partition with the ext4 file system / with gparted
2. turn off journaling (decreases the wear of the flash hardware) / with tune2fs
3. add the mount option noatime (decreases the wear of the flash hardware too) / edit the file /etc/fstab
4. add the label casper-rw to the 4 GB partition with the ext4 file system / with tune2fs

5. turn on persistence with the boot option persistent. It is possible to do manually each time or by editing the boot configuration file.

If you want to do everything automatically you can use a tool that does it for you. But if you want to boot from one drive and have the persistence on another drive, you have to do some work manually.

I would suggest that you try [mkusb 10](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/mkusb#mkusb_version_10) - because I made it recently ;-) but there are several other tools that can do the job too.

[LIST]
[*]Unetbootin
[*]Ubuntu Startup Disk Creator (usb-creator-gtk)
[/LIST]

See this link for more information: [Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)

A persistent live system stores the main part of the operating system compressed in a squashfs file. So more drive space will be available for your own files.

-o-

Another alternative is to install a small portable system with the [One Button Installer](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OBI). For example, you can install a text based system from the tarball

[Trusty-mini-txt6.tar.xz](http://phillw.net/isos/one-button-installer/tarballs/Trusty-mini-txt6.tar.xz)

The first time you boot into the installed system it runs in text mode and there is a menu that lets you add whatever packages you need, or maybe you want a meta-package like lubuntu-core plus a web browser and a light word processor and spread-sheet ...

After installing a system with a desktop environment and rebooting, you have a normal desktop system. And it works with very small RAM and disk (SSD). See also this link [RAM and disk usage](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/9w/RAM_%26_disk_usage)

The size of the partitions can be edited with gparted after the installation.

---

### Post by Irihapeti on 2015-08-21
I've installed entire OSes on a 4 GB drive (USB stick or SD card), but, as sudodus says, you have to watch the free space like a hawk. E.g. you can't have lots of old kernels installed.

To create these installs, I use the mini ISO to create a very basic system and then add only those programs that I need. I tend to use Xfce or Openbox for the desktop.

---

