---
title: "11.04 Freezing &amp; Hard Drive Chugging"
date: 2011-06-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bigalxyz123 on 2011-06-23
Toshiba Satellite Pro laptop, 2 years old, dual core 2.16GHz, 2GB Ram, 150GB hard drive.  Dual boots to Windows 7 & Ubuntu.

After upgrading Ubuntu from 10.10 to 11.04, I started noticing that when I've got a good few applications running, often the slightest provocation will virtually freeze the system - it becomes almost totally unresponsive and all that happens is that the hard drive chugs & chugs, seemingly forever - I'm having to hold the power key down for 5 secs to switch the machine off & then restart.

Can anyone advise what might be going on?  Is this some kind of swap file activity caused by running out of RAM?

I don't have very much free space on my hard drive - only about 1.7GB on the Ubuntu partition & 1.3GB on the Windows partition - could this be a reason for the problem?

It's not something I remember from 10.10, and I was using the computer in much the same way, so I'm bound to wonder if there's a problem with 11.04 (rather than with the applications I'm running).  I'm typically having to restart the machine 3 or 4 times a day, whereas under 10.10 the system would run quite merrily for weeks on end.

Typically running Chrome, Skype, Pidgin, Deluge, VLC, not much else.

Grateful for any advice.

Thanks!

Alan.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2011-06-23
Do you see the same symptoms in a guest session?

---

### Post by bigalxyz123 on 2011-06-23
Don't know - haven't tried.  Will try now though!  What makes you think this might make a difference?

Thanks,
Alan.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2011-06-23
Just a suggestion to give you a clean reference point .. 

if no freezing occurs  then enable applications one by one until you see the same symptoms returning.   Process of elimination.

---

### Post by bigalxyz123 on 2011-06-23
I tried opening a guest session.  For some reason, Chrome wouldn't run - the application just didn't launch, so I had to use Firefox instead.

No sign of any problems anyway.

I logged back into my normal account & enabled some of the system monitor gizmos in the top panel to keep an eye on CPU usage, RAM usage, swap file usage, etc.

I then opened a few applications - all was fine.

Then tried to provoke trouble by opening a large number of new tabs in Chrome.  Sure enough, after a short while the RAM filled up, and the swap file started to be filled.  After a while this filled up too.  All the while the CPU usage was close to 100% but it was all of the type "IOWait" rather than "User", "Nice", "System" or "Idle" (I'm not 100% sure what any of these means).

After a while the swap file was full and then the system became very very slow to respond.  I was eventually able to kill Chrome & get back to normality.

You might think: big deal, he's just run out of memory, what does he expect?  But it never used to happen quite so readily.  Maybe Chrome is the problem?

Confession time: I'm running the dev version of Chrome, 14.0.797.0.  I think I'm going to try reverting to the stable version & repeating the experiment.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2011-06-23
I've had freezes when I've had a lot of tabs open in firefox 4.0.1 .. I've now installed session manager which helps in restoring sessions after a freeze.

[http://sessionmanager.mozdev.org/](http://sessionmanager.mozdev.org/)

There may be a session manager equivalent for chrome.

See also**[COLOR=Navy] htop[/COLOR]** app to monitor processes.

---

### Post by bigalxyz123 on 2011-07-12
Problem solved.  I realised that I was running the 32 bit version of 10.10 but the 64 bit version of 11.04.

I reinstalled 11.04 from scratch, but this time used the 32 bit version.

Bingo!  All the problems have disappeared.

Not sure why though...in theory my laptop is capable of running 64 bit OSs, but in practice...

Interestingly, on my Windows partition on the same laptop I've also recently swapped from the 64 bit to the 32 bit version of Windows 7, and again, it seems to be a lot happier.

---

### Post by BobLloyd on 2011-09-06
Same problem.  Using 32-bit 11.04 on Asus X58C, Firefox 6.0.1.  After several hours of use, the machine freezes, mouse pointer still moveable but no functionality.  At first, it recovers after three or four minutes, then next time around it hangs completely and it's power button time.

Sometimes, it will simply freeze and after a while loses the icons on the applications panel - all have a cross inside them - then again it's time for the power button.  It happens as well without using a browser, and will also happen if the machine is simply left alone for a couple of hours with no applications running, which makes me think it's an OS problem.

One possibility is that since the machine uses the SiS drivers for the video card, and there's no official driver available (but one that works well enough), it may be the driver failing and bringing down the system.  I haven't been able to detect a driver problem through the logs.  I've done the usual checking of logs, testing the hard drive, scouring the forums, uninstalling various apps, etc, keeping detailed notes on usage and apps used, etc.  

I've now pretty much given up on trying to find a solution because we can post logs ad infinitum but no-one seems to know the cause of this problem.  The most promising suggestion seemed to be that there was a problem maintaining connection with the hard drive, resulting in the message:

ata1: link is slow to respond, please be patient (ready=0)

But no-one seems to know what that really means in terms of getting it fixed.  So I'm now just waiting and hoping an update will eventually address the problem.  I must say though that it's a knock to my confidence in Ubuntu.  If it continues to cause such hassle, I might even be tempted to switch to another distro.  

The problem with every updated version of Ubuntu seems to be finding a machine which will work out of the box.  If you buy a moderately priced laptop, you are likely to have problems with one or more of graphics cards (SiS), wireless (anything with Broadcom), and even some printers.  Sure, it's often down to the manufacturers but if Ubuntu continues to become more unstable and less usable for budget machines, it's sort of losing its raison d'être.

This bug seems fairly likely to be related: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/539467](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/539467)

---

