---
title: "5,149,552 files in 30.2 GB and RSYNC says I'm out of space when I still have some"
date: 2011-06-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by noobinabox on 2011-06-09
I am running Ubuntu 10.04.
I am transferring roughly 62 GB of data libraries to my 84 GB /home partition.

I'm using rsync because scp kept stalling, and I had to restart it over and over.

Things were going great until recently when it began to show an error: "failed: No space left on device (28)"
These are the things I've done so far:


[LIST]
[*] Used the GUI to find out how much I have copied so far: 5,149,552 which take up 30.2 GB.
[/LIST]

[LIST]
[*] df -h, it tells me that my /home partition is 56% used, and that I have 33 GB available.
[/LIST]
[INDENT] (42 GB used out of 78 GB with 33 GB available)
[/INDENT][INDENT] Also, none of my other partitions are anywhere near 100%. the /home partition is the most-used and it's only a little over half-full. 
[/INDENT]
[LIST]
[*] du -s in the directory where I'm copying all of this: it also returned 42206500.
[/LIST]
 
[LIST]
[*] Additionally, when I try to save screen captures, it sometimes fails with a "device full" error.
[/LIST]
 
What's going on? Am I really out of space? Why doesn't it show me that I'm out of space?

Is there a hidden temp file that rsync uses that just got too full?

I did a little research on wikipedia and it said that ext4 has a 64,000 directory limit. Could it be that I somehow broke that limit with all of these files?

Any help would be appreciated.
Thank you all for your time,
Noobinabox


EDIT:

Solution: not enough inodes for the vast amount of subdirectories on hard drive. This wasn't an RSYNC problem, rather, a partition configuration issue.
To check inode usage: df -i
If you want to add any inodes, you will need to backup your partition and format it using mke2fs (man mke2fs). Be sure to change the respective inode setting.

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-06-09
> **noobinabox said:**
> df -h, it tells me that my /home partition is 56% used, and that I have 33 GB available.
(42 GB used out of 78 GB with 33 GB available)

You have 33GB available but are trying to transfer 62GB?

---

### Post by noobinabox on 2011-06-09
> **seawolf167 said:**
> You have 33GB available but are trying to transfer 62GB?

No, I have 33 GB available after what I've transferred so far (30.2 GB)

So, I did a du -s on the directory where I'm pulling the files from, and it returned about 62 GB.

I began the transfer, and got 30.2 GB transferred according to the GUI. Now, rsync is telling me that there is no room on the device even though df -h reported that I had 33 GB still available in /home.

I apologize for any lack of clarity. Hope that clears it up.

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-06-09
***Iff ***the files you are transferring are all contained in their own directory tree on the source and ***iff ***you want to copy them to their own separate directory tree on the destination, what is the result of the following command (properly modified)?

```
rsync -r -u -v --delete-before /source/directory/tree /destination/directory/tree
```

---

### Post by noobinabox on 2011-06-09
```
rsync -r -u -v --delete-before /source/directory/tree /destination/directory/tree
```

What exactly does --delete-before delete? I'd like to preserve my source files, so I want to make sure I'm not deleting anything on the source. 

Also I think I should mention that I have been using this command

```
rsync -vaur [source directory] [destination directory]
```

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-06-09
The --delete-before deletes extraneous files/folders from the destination that are not present in the source. In the previous command, since the -r switch is used, this applies to all subdirectories as well. Essentially, all this command does is mirror one directory tree to another, subsequent runs updates the files/directories as needed and keep the destination tree exactly as your source tree is

For more info

```
man rsync
```

---

### Post by noobinabox on 2011-06-09
I've been running rsync for a while now.

It is currently "receiving file list..."

In the past, when I used rsync -ruav --progress, it said "receiving incremental file list..." and that took up to 20 min.

I will let you know what it outputs when it receives the file list.

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-06-09
If you add the -n switch it will do a dryrun and tell you what will be transferred without actual actually transferring anything. You must have a *lot* of files for it to take 20 min to transfer the file list.

---

### Post by noobinabox on 2011-06-09
It's basically around 50-60 GB consisting of mostly 100 KB files.

Hm, the command rsync -r -u -v --delete-before doesn't seem to be able to get out of "receiving file list."

I cancelled my last attempt and tried rsync -ruav --progress and it transferred a few files before giving me the error
```

failed: No space left on device (28)
```I restarted rsync -r -u -v --delete-before again and will run it overnight to see what happens. Thank you for all of your help so far, seawolf167. I appreciate you investing your time in helping me.

This is the code I'm using:
```
rsync -r -u -v --delete-before username@server:/home/share/sourcedirectory .
```I'm in the directory which I want to copy the contents of sourcedirectory when i run this.


EDIT:
So it built overnight:

output is as follows:

Multiple lines of code with following error:
```
rsync: mkstemp "/home/destinationdirectory" failed: No space left on device (28)
```And, at the end:
```

sent 142437 bytes  received 151494021 bytes  8356.70 bytes/sec
total size is 29433959618  speedup is 194.11
rsync error: some files/attrs were not transferred (see previous errors) (code 23) at main.c(1526) [generator=3.0.7]
```

df -h still reports the following:
```

Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda6              14G  4.2G  8.9G  32% /
none                  2.0G  348K  2.0G   1% /dev
none                  2.0G  240K  2.0G   1% /dev/shm
none                  2.0G   84K  2.0G   1% /var/run
none                  2.0G     0  2.0G   0% /var/lock
none                  2.0G     0  2.0G   0% /lib/init/rw
/dev/sda7              78G   42G   33G  56% /home
```

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-06-10
> **noobinabox said:**
> It's basically around 50-60 GB consisting of mostly 100 KB files.[/CODE]

This is the part I'm concerned is stopping rsync. I have used rsync successfully to transfer 5TB of data from server-to-server (of 1MB -> 1GB files), but I'm wondering if your large file list is causing problems. I would see if you can transfer the files in multiple segments so handling a file list of that size (~500k files?) isn't an issue. Maybe work from the bottom up or transfer your directory tree as a number of smaller subtrees?

---

### Post by patmagee1024 on 2011-06-10
Try the --inplace option and let me know what you get. I have a folder structure with > 1M small files and I use rsync as a backup tool. The command line I use to sync up the folder structure is

> rsync -av --delete --progress --inplace /home/user/ /tb/homedir-backup/Once you get it going like you want, ditch the --progress switch. The --delete switch deletes from the target, in my case that's the /tb/homedir-backup/ portion.

---

### Post by noobinabox on 2011-06-10
I did a few more tests, and this is what happened:

I tried creating a test.txt using "touch test.txt"
```
touch: cannot touch `test.txt': No space left on device
```Then I tried scp on a test.txt that I created on the server.
```
./test.txt: No space left on device

```How can this be? With my very limited knowledge of Linux, I can only guess one of the following has happened:

[LIST=1]
[*]That ext4 memory has file/subdirectory limits, and that I have reached those limits.
[/LIST]
[INDENT]
[LIST]
[*]If so, it must be based off of partition size since the server can store it.
[/LIST]
[/INDENT]
[LIST=1]
[*]Or, I am indeed out of space, and df -h is reporting my free disk space incorrectly.
[/LIST]
Regardless, I believe rsync is in fact working correctly, and that this must be some issue with my system's configuration.

---

### Post by patmagee1024 on 2011-06-10
Time to check the filesystem. 

> sudo umount /dev/sdb1
sudo fsck.ext4 -Dfv -E fragcheck /dev/sdb1
Umount the volume. Be sure to substitute /dev/sdb1 with whatever is appropriate for your system. 

For the fsck command:
-D optimizes the directories on the filesystem.
-f forces the check even if the filesystem seems clean.
-v tells you what's going on.
-E fragcheck  During pass 1, print a detailed report of any discontiguous blocks for files in the filesystem.

Go get a sandwich and wait for it to complete. I do this every time I add/delete a bunch of files/directories.

---

### Post by noobinabox on 2011-06-11
I think I found the source of my problems:

Apparently, ext4 filesystem has unlimited scalability (up to 4 billion) for the number of inodes it can have. However, there is a default inode count for every file system when it is created.

so I ran a df -i and got this:
```
Filesystem            Inodes   IUsed   IFree IUse% Mounted on
/dev/sda6             915712  195691  720021   22% /
none                  506099     866  505233    1% /dev
none                  507229       7  507222    1% /dev/shm
none                  507229      47  507182    1% /var/run
none                  507229       1  507228    1% /var/lock
none                  507229       1  507228    1% /lib/init/rw
/dev/sda7            5152768 5152768       0  100% /home

```I did a little more reading and discovered that inode count cannot be altered after the filesystem has been created.

So this means I will have to format /home and recreate it with the new inode count, right?

One question on backing up files: 

I have a large external backup that uses NTFS filesystem. Can I back up my ext4 files to that drive and still get them back afterwards (i.e. In the transfer, will the files transform from ext4 to NTFS? and vice versa)?

My plan is to use rsync -av to copy the files over.

---

### Post by patmagee1024 on 2011-06-14
I transfer files back and forth between ext4 and ntfs all the time. You may need to tweak the permissions once you push the files back over to ext4 depending on whether you use Samba, NFS, USB drive, etc as your method to get the files back over. I presume all these files are owned by the same user.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-06-14
You definitely can move files between Ext and NTFS, but as NTFS doesn't support Linux-style fle ownerships and permisisons you might run into some troubles after you copy the files back.

One way to work around that is to put your files into a .tar archive and copy *that* to your NTFS partition.

---

### Post by noobinabox on 2011-06-17
Alright, everything worked out well, I think.

I didn't think about putting it all in a .tar, so naturally file permissions were all wack when I copied them back over to ext4.

Used these commands I found from google.

```
$ sudo chown user:user /home/user/.ICEauthority
$ sudo chmod 644 /home/user/.ICEauthority
$ sudo chown -R user /home/user
```

to fix permissions and ownership.
And now everything seems to be working fine.

Inode count is 15 mil now, so that should work out fine. I'd consider this solved. Thanks, everyone, for the great tips and such.

---

### Post by chadhs on 2011-06-20
couldn't agree more with the guys saying to use -n when tweaking / testing what you're trying to achieve with rsync.
the --exclude is very handy too if you want to move a bunch of nested data and use some pattern matching to limit what you want to leave out.
it's just the tip of the iceberg but i did a quick little write up on it with an example here -> [http://www.chadstovern.com/copy-all-files-recursively-except-a-pattern-with-rsync](http://www.chadstovern.com/copy-all-files-recursively-except-a-pattern-with-rsync)

---

