---
title: "(12.04lts) Packages with only 18 months support in main?"
date: 2013-09-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zKhtdyX on 2013-09-10
Hi all,
Ubuntu officially supports packages in 'main' repository. And a lts-release is supported for 5 years.
But there seems to be some packages with only 18 months support like libreoffice and pidgin.

"$apt-cache show libreoffice" shows: "Supported: 18m"

Is this correct or maybe a bug in the package metadata?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2013-09-10
The Ubuntu Software Centre (on 13.10) tells me that Canonical does not provide any support for Libreoffice suite. But when I check each component of Libreoffice indiviually I see that it is supported until June 2014. There is nothing strange about this. Libreoffice and Pidgin, for that matter, are part of the Ubuntu distribution but they are not Ubuntu, are they? They are being developed by other open source projects. The promise is to support Ubuntu for 5 years. That does not apply to applications, even those installed as part of the distribution or through the Ubuntu Software Centre. If other open source projects release updated versions of their software then it is likely that these updated versions will find their way into Ubuntu. 

What you have to keep in mind is that even though Ubuntu 12.04 is supported for 5 years there will be another LTS version released by the end of April 2014. Between May 2012 and May 2014 Ubuntu 12.04 will get 4 of what are called 'point releases.' These point releases will bring in the latest Linux firmware and newer versions of things like Libreoffice. Ubuntu 12.04 has just had it third point release. One more to go and after that support will be for security fixes and that kind of thing. To get the latest versions of certain applications one would need to upgrade to 14.04 LTS.

Right now Ubuntu 13.10 is using Libreoffice 4.1. Wjhat version do you have in 12.04?

Regards.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-10
13.10 is supported for 9 months, though, so it makes some sense Libreoffice is only supported until June 2014. 13.10 would only be supported until around that time and then nothing would be supported anyhow, 13.10 included. ;)

---

### Post by zKhtdyX on 2013-09-10
> **grahammechanical said:**
> There is nothing strange about this. Libreoffice and Pidgin, for that matter, are part of the Ubuntu distribution but they are not Ubuntu, are they? They are being developed by other open source projects. The promise is to support Ubuntu for 5 years. That does not apply to applications, even those installed as part of the distribution or through the Ubuntu Software Centre.
hi grahammechanical,
yes they are, packages in 'main' repository are officially supported by Ubuntu. 

If a package in main (of a lts-release) claims to have support for 18 months, then thit is either a bug or not all supported packages are supported for 5 years. For the second case I could not find any hint. Therefore I'm asking if anybody might have an explanation about this.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-09-10
A clue may be that LTS releases are released every two years, even though they're now supported for five ...

At the end of that five years you are going to have some fairly old and obsolete apps. Not sure what the thinking is but perhaps it is to leapfrog from one LTS to the next if you want to keep abreast. (This can be done via update manager - 12.04 LTS>14.04 LTS).

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-09-11
As  far as libreoffice,  all the actual app packages I've here are 5yr., "libreoffice" is just a non default installed  metapackage

---

### Post by zKhtdyX on 2013-09-11
Package metadata are hosted in the repository, e.g. in that archive  [http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz](http://de.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/dists/precise/main/binary-i386/Packages.gz)
That contains one file where you can see that packages are either supported for 5y or 18m. There are quite a lot packages with 18m.
That must be somewhere documented, where??

---

