---
title: "Firestarter"
date: 2009-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AndrewGen on 2009-11-30
I have installed Firestarter but it does not run each time I boot into Ubuntu.  Any suggestions?

thanks

---

### Post by OpSecShellshock on 2009-11-30
Firestarter is just a front-end for the iptables process, which is always running. You only need to have Firestarter running to do the configurations. The rest of the time it's not necessary. It won't run at startup because it requires privilege escalation, which can't happen until after you've logged in.

---

### Post by AndrewGen on 2009-11-30
> **OpSecShellshock said:**
> Firestarter is just a front-end for the iptables process, which is always running. You only need to have Firestarter running to do the configurations. The rest of the time it's not necessary. It won't run at startup because it requires privilege escalation, which can't happen until after you've logged in.

So the firewall is always running and Firestarter is just a configuration tool ?
Thanks

---

### Post by Roobert on 2009-12-04
> **OpSecShellshock said:**
> Firestarter is just a front-end for the iptables process, which is always running. You only need to have Firestarter running to do the configurations. The rest of the time it's not necessary. It won't run at startup because it requires privilege escalation, which can't happen until after you've logged in.

I can't see it running in the System Monitor, though. Or is it just one of those really low-level applications that don't get reported in the Monitor?

---

### Post by scottuss on 2009-12-04
iptables is incorporated into the kernel, once you have configured rules with Firestarter, they are applied.

You can do some basic tests if you have other PCs on your network, just to check that it's working.

If you're directly connected to the Internet (not behind a router) you can use a service such as Shields Up [https://www.grc.com/x/ne.dll?bh0bkyd2](https://www.grc.com/x/ne.dll?bh0bkyd2) to check your firewall is working.

If you are behind a router, then you can use another PC on your lan to run a ping test, port scan etc etc

---

### Post by paspantou on 2009-12-11
Hi Guys....!!!
Sorry for my english but i'm from greece so i don't speak(write?) english very well!!!
I had installed firestarter but for some reasons i uninstalled it, and since i did that every time i log-in ubuntu 9.10 i don't have access to the internet...!!
So i restore iptables to their first state whith some commands:

Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target prot opt source destination

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target prot opt source destination

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target prot opt source destination

and then i save them with sudo iptables-save
# Generated by iptables-save v1.4.4 on Fri Dec 11 12:15:29 2009
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [6423:7463650]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [4841:722130]
COMMIT
# Completed on Fri Dec 11 12:15:29 2009

But after restart then problem returns and the iptables -L gives me other settings..not the one i saved....

Any Sugestions?????

---

