---
title: "13.10 (Saucy Salamander) known bugs and work arounds"
date: 2013-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-10-19
During the development cycle, Suacy was pretty reliable, I only needed to do a fresh install once in the 6 months.

Aside from a kernel problem, where a commit was made that disabled my D-Link nic, that was quickly diagnosed and fixed with the help of Joseph Salisbury, there aren't any glaring kernel errors.

Please post how you worked around any bugs that you run into.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2013-10-19
**Install Citrix Receiver on Ubuntu 13.10?**

Some members have had a problem installing Citrix Receiver, the solution is in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2166020](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2166020)

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2013-10-20
Edit: an update has fixed this issue, if you have this issue install updates and restart the panel ([FONT=courier new]xfce4-panel -r[/FONT])
------------Original post below------------------
Broken sound indicator on the xfce panel [[bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-sound/+bug/1208204")]
the workaround for this is the replace the [FONT=courier new]Exec[/FONT] line of [FONT=courier new]/usr/share/dbus-1/services/indicator-sound.service[/FONT] with this line
```
Exec=/bin/sh -c 'if [ -n "$(ps -U $USER | grep xfce4-panel)" ]; then /usr/lib/indicator-sound-gtk2/indicator-sound-service;else /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/indicator-sound/indicator-sound-service;fi'
```
there is a installer for this workaround [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-sound/+bug/1208204/+attachment/3883770/+files/1208204.tar.gz") (from comment #65)
this has to be done every time the sound indicator is updated without a long term fix for this issue
This workaround is specific to the 64bit version
the workaround line for 32bit is this:
```
Exec=/bin/sh -c 'if [ -n "$(ps -U $USER | grep xfce4-panel)" ];  then /usr/lib/indicator-sound-gtk2/indicator-sound-service;else  /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/indicator-sound/indicator-sound-service;fi'
```

---

### Post by vanadium on 2013-10-20
> **cariboo907 said:**
> **Install Citrix Receiver on Ubuntu 13.10?**

Some members have had a problem installing Citrix Receiver, the solution is in this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2166020](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2166020)

For those not liking to wade through three pages of messages: that was the one that worked for me.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2166020&p=12816007#post12816007](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2166020&p=12816007#post12816007)
It only worked with the beta version as mentionned in the post. I also tried the procedure with a stable deb, but although you can make the deb "installable" without errors, the executable still looks for libasound.so.2 at runtime.

Issues I encountered:

- global menu is slower to "populate". This is particularly an issue with gimp. Even after clicking the main window, it takes some time before the correct menu items are available. Small delay, but enough to seriously distract and disrupt the work flow.
- Global menu with libreoffice is still crippled: impossible to open it using the keyboard: alt-key accelerators do not work. Other problems (HUD not working, no proper icons or no icons in the launcher) seem to have been solved, although icon issues sometimes reappear on intensive use (opening/closing many LO windows).

Workaround: get rid of the global menu (again! I would love to keep the global menus).

- Date randomly is not there on the status bar. Sometimes, the system starts up without date/time indicator. A reboot resolves that. Does not happen a lot. I am not alone: I have seen it mentionned by other users.

Overall, this is a version with not a lot of changes, but one that to me overall feels as an improvement over the previous edition: it feels smooth, and graphics effects in particular are very smooth now on my system.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-10-21
In Lubuntu 13.10, xfce4-power-manager may not start by itself: [xfce4-power-manager is not running by default with Lubuntu 13.10]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-default-settings/+bug/1242452")

A workaround is to edit **~/.config/lxsession/Lubuntu/desktop.conf**. The beginning of this file has:
```

[Session]
windows_manager/command=openbox
windows_manager/session=Lubuntu
windows_manager/extras=
panel/command=lxpanel
panel/session=Lubuntu
screensaver/command=
**power_manager/command=xfce4-power-manager**
file_manager/command=pcmanfm
file_manager/session=lubuntu
file_manager/extras=

```
Modify the line starting with **power_manager/command=** to read as shown above. A log-out or reboot maybe needed.

---

### Post by paulmckellar on 2013-10-21
the unity dash uses some openGL2.1 extensions if available.  the GMA 945GME with mesa 9.2 and the i915 driver only support openGL 1.4 in hardware with openGL 2.1 extensions being rendered on the cpu.  this makes the dash unbearably slow on netbooks.

fix is to force openGL version back to 1.4 
"MESA_GL_VERSION_OVERRIDE=1.4"  to the bottom of /etc/environment

---

### Post by syntaxerror74 on 2013-10-21
Well, Lubuntu here too, but the version number matches :D 

I had a problem with **LXAppearance**:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2179911](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2179911)

Solved, but not with the package provided by default. I would still not have my preferred Look & Feel if I had used the packages "intended" for my distro...
Nobody ever replied...
(And unfortunately this forum is so INSANELY busy that if my post is unattended for one day, it may have been pushed back 3 or 4 whole pages, so hardly anybody would care about it again.  And since you know from the "Google phenomenon", everything that is on page 3 or higher virtually does not exist for people. A classic Catch-22.)

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2013-10-21
If you want to use gnome flashback and have a working screensaver here is a way that **mc4man** showed me how and it works great. 
You currently cannot uninstall gnome-screensaver and use xscreensaver because gnome-session-flashback has a dependency of gnome-screensaver.
Here is the bug for it. There was not enough interest to get it fixed. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/1199074]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-panel/+bug/1199074")

Here is the original thread. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2160563](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2160563)

Paste this into gedit and save it as **editdeb** in your home directory:
```
#!/bin/bash

EDITOR=gedit

if [[ -z "$1" ]]; then
  echo "Syntax: $0 debfile"
  exit 1
fi

DEBFILE="$1"
TMPDIR=`mktemp -d /tmp/deb.XXXXXXXXXX` || exit 1
OUTPUT=`basename "$DEBFILE" .deb`.modfied.deb

if [[ -e "$OUTPUT" ]]; then
  echo "$OUTPUT exists."
  rm -r "$TMPDIR"
  exit 1
fi

dpkg-deb -x "$DEBFILE" "$TMPDIR"
dpkg-deb --control "$DEBFILE" "$TMPDIR"/DEBIAN

if [[ ! -e "$TMPDIR"/DEBIAN/control ]]; then
  echo DEBIAN/control not found.

  rm -r "$TMPDIR"
  exit 1
fi

CONTROL="$TMPDIR"/DEBIAN/control

MOD=`stat -c "%y" "$CONTROL"`
$EDITOR "$CONTROL"

if [[ "$MOD" == `stat -c "%y" "$CONTROL"` ]]; then
  echo Not modfied.
else
  echo Building new deb...
  dpkg -b "$TMPDIR" "$OUTPUT"
fi

rm -r "$TMPDIR"
```

Enter in terminal **mkdir -p ~/bin** then **mv ~/editdeb ~/bin/editdeb**.

Enter **chmod u+x ~/bin/editdeb**.

Then restart to add ~/bin to your path.

Then get the name of the flashback deb file from **/var/cache/apt/archives/**
Open a terminal and enter **editdeb "gnome-session-flashback deb file"** (in the parens is the exact name of the deb file).

It's easier if you just open a terminal, enter editdeb and then drag and drop the file name from **/var/cache/apt/archives/** onto the terminal.
When the control file opens for edit, delete the dependency gnome-screensaver and add a .1 to the file name.
See this post for a perfect example that **mc4man** posted. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2160563&page=2&p=12744777#post12744777](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2160563&page=2&p=12744777#post12744777)

Then once you have it saved. The deb that was created should be in your home directory.
Find the name and enter this **sudo dpkg -i deb-file-name**.
It should look some thing like this: **sudo dpkg -i gnome-session-flashback_1%3a3.6.2-0ubuntu15_all.modfied.deb**

Then you will be able to remove gnome-screensaver **sudo apt-get remove gnome-screensaver** and install **xscreensaver** and add it to your startup applications.

While you are at it if this is important to you, add your name on that bug at the top of this post.

This is important to me but all thanks go to **mc4man**! :)

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-10-22
Just seen this fix.

[http://m.webupd8.org/2013/10/get-sound-working-in-skype-with-ubuntu.html?m=1](http://m.webupd8.org/2013/10/get-sound-working-in-skype-with-ubuntu.html?m=1)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-10-23
> **paulmckellar said:**
> the unity dash uses some openGL2.1 extensions if available.  the GMA 945GME with mesa 9.2 and the i915 driver only support openGL 1.4 in hardware with openGL 2.1 extensions being rendered on the cpu.  this makes the dash unbearably slow on netbooks.

fix is to force openGL version back to 1.4 
"MESA_GL_VERSION_OVERRIDE=1.4"  to the bottom of /etc/environment

This was fixed during development.
Are you still having issues with this?
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2174563&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2174563&page=3)
post #22

---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2013-10-24
There's the Time display disappearing from the top bar. Happened to quite some people after upgrading to 13.10.

How to get around that, is by typing **sudo apt-get install indicator-datetime **in a Terminal. If it's already installed, type **sudo apt-get purge indicator-datetime **and then the installation command. After that, reboot.

---

### Post by Lops on 2013-10-24
Hello,

my system:
Xubuntu 13.10 (xfce4), Samsung ATIV NP900x3f-k01de
Installed Ubuntu killing windows 8, Bios fast boot and secure boot disabled, UEFI disabled (set to CSM)

I just found a solution to a problem many users seem to have using the notebook's powerbutton in order to trigger suspend, shutdown etc... My system was always shutting down, even though i had configured suspend (xfce-settings).
In my opinion the problem appears to be that multiple subsystems are reacting on the powerbutton-press event. I realized that when i pressed the power button and sometimes the system suspended. After waking up it continued 
shutting down. Another time after playing with configurations it just returned from suspend and went again to suspend returning finally to wakeup the next time i pressed the power button again. 
My solution is a little collection from other forums. It is like this:

Become root and do the following:
1. edit the file "/etc/acpi/events/powerbtn": search for the entry "action=/etc/acpi/powerbtn.sh" and change it to "action=true".
2. edit the file "/etc/systemd/logind.conf": append the following lines to it:

     HandlePowerKey=ignore 
     HandleSuspendKey=ignore
     HandleHibernateKey=ignore
     HandleLidSwitch=ignore

3. reboot system
4. configure your xfce-power-settings

For me that worked. I hope that it can help other users as well.

Greetings

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-10-24
Not a bug so much as an annoying default feature. 

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/turn-new-keyboard-applet-ubuntu-13-10?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28OMG!+Ubuntu!%29](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2013/10/turn-new-keyboard-applet-ubuntu-13-10?utm_source=feedburner&utm_medium=feed&utm_campaign=Feed%3A+d0od+%28OMG!+Ubuntu!%29)

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2013-10-24
I believe an easier way than I mentioned above to have a working screensaver (xscreensaver) with Gnome Flashback in Saucy is to just create a script.
Since gnome-screensaver is a dependency of gnome-session-flashback you cannot remove gnome-screensaver.

[PHP]#! /bin/bash
sleep 60
killall gnome-screensaver[/PHP]

I saved that as killscreensaver in my home directory. Made it executable via **sudo chmod +x /home/cavsfan/killscreensaver**.
Then added **/home/cavsfan/killscreensaver** to my startup applications.

It seems to like 60 seconds. I tried 20 and less and that didn't work. But 60 seconds will work every time.

---

### Post by vanadium on 2013-10-25
> **danielbauwens said:**
> There's the Time display disappearing from the top bar. Happened to quite some people after upgrading to 13.10.

How to get around that, is by typing **sudo apt-get install indicator-datetime **in a Terminal. If it's already installed, type **sudo apt-get purge indicator-datetime **and then the installation command. After that, reboot.
Indeed, this is an issue in 13.14. Today, I would not have a data and even not the righmost system menu (the gear icon). Installing the indicator is not the solution: the indicator is already installed. Removing and reinstalling probably also will not prevent the issue from happening. I think it is rather a quirck in the startup, where sometimes the indicator is not properly started up. Usually, it appears again on the next reboot (or probably - should test this, jsut on log-uot - login). As a matter of fact, if the datetime indicator is missing, you may still load it with the command "/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/indicator-datetime-service".

@phillylinux: Thank you. I already had a more drastic solution ("sudo apt-get remove indicator-keyboard") but it is much better just to use the option to turn it off once you find it.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-10-25
This is a known bug, it has been fixed & updated  indicator packages should appear in 13.10 at some point.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/1239710](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-datetime/+bug/1239710)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-10-25
It's a known bug though not attended to atm.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/1238410](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/1238410)

Workaround - 
```
gsettings set org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.cursor active false
```

Some have reported disabling as above, logging out then re-enabling  also works, I don't see that & leave the plugin disabled

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-10-25
Has several active bug reports - 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+3.0/+bug/1184159](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+3.0/+bug/1184159)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz/+bug/1200829](https://bugs.launchpad.net/compiz/+bug/1200829)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+3.0/+bug/1240957](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gtk+3.0/+bug/1240957)

Workaround - 
In most cases not using Desktop-based Viewport Switching (disable any bindings set)will resolve

If one wants to use scroll on Desktop & is affected as per above bugs then only a patched gtk3 will fix
Available here, will be maintained for 13.10 & extended to 14.04 till not needed

[https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/test-scroll](https://launchpad.net/~mc3man/+archive/test-scroll)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-10-25
Minor issue but annoying. If shutdown is initiated & laptop lid is closed before it's finished then shtdown hangs until lid is reopened, at that point it will finish up.
No workaround I've found yet
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1211514](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1211514)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-10-25
Depends on Desktop background & where the file is. Cause is that while renaming the background in the file name box is transparent
Known bug that I was surprised wasn't addressed before release as they had 3+ months to fix.
No workaround 
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1236601](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nautilus/+bug/1236601)

---

### Post by amunkres on 2013-10-30
I found an apparent bug where writing data to UDF-formatted DVD+RW discs from a packet-writing device (such as /dev/pktcdvd/pktcdvd0) in kernel 3.11.0-12-generic seems to corrupt the disc's entire filesystem.

I found this while trying to initialize a new DVD+RW disc (for the first time since upgrading to 13.10), using the normal sequence of operations: first format the fresh disc (with _dvd+rw-format_), then attach a new packet-writing device (with _pktsetup_), then create a new empty UDF filesystem on that device (with _mkudffs_), and then mount that new filesystem (with _mount_). Every time I've done this before (as far as I can remember, at least) it worked, but this time the last step failed with this error:
```
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sr0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
```
I then tried rebooting the system (after having detached the packet writing device, forcing it to flush the blank-filesystem data to the disc) and retrying to mount the disc (this time in read-only mode, using the plain /dev/sr0 device node instead of a packet-writin device), but got the same error.

Immediately prior to trying to initialize the new disc, though, I had mounted two different partially-full DVD+RW discs (which had both been initialized from 13.04, before 13.10 was released) and written new files to them. So, I tried to read both of those discs, and found that both of them now also fail to mount! :mad: Then I tried reading some older DVD+RWs that had not been written to since upgrading to 13.10, and these still seem to work correctly.

Finally, I tried rebooting into kernel version 3.8.0-31-generic, redoing the _mkudffs_ on the new DVD+RW, and retrying to mount the new filesystem; this time, it mounted successfully, so I copied files to it, unmounted it, detached the packet-writing device, remounted the disc in read-only mode (from the plain /dev/sr0 device), and again it appears to have been mounted correctly. Unfortunately, the two other discs still fail to mount from this kernel version, so it seems they've really been corrupted. :( This leads me to believe that the cause of the problems is a data-corruption bug that exists in the newer kernel version but not in the older one.

Note: searching the web for _"3.11" data corruption_ lead me to [this kernel patch]("http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.kernel.bcache.devel/2075"), which fixes a bug in the *bio_copy_data* block-layer API function. I looked at the [linux_3.11.0.orig.tar.gz]("http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/l/linux/linux_3.11.0.orig.tar.gz") and [linux_3.11.0-12.19.diff.gz]("http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/l/linux/linux_3.11.0-12.19.diff.gz") source-package files, and as far as I can tell, that bugfix is not yet in Ubuntu's linux-image-3.11.0-12-generic package as of version 3.11.0-12.19.

**Update 2013-10-30:** Today I tried rebuilding the linux-image-3.11.0-12-generic package with that one patch added, but unfortunately the problem still occurred for me when running on the new kernel, so it looks like this is a completely different bug. I suppose I should report it upstream.

---

### Post by coffeecat on 2013-11-02
I've removed a few posts that distracted from the focus of this thread. From the OP:

> **cariboo907 said:**
> 
Please post how you worked around any bugs that you run into.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-11-02
**Bug**: [Print Screen Key does nothing when pressed]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lubuntu-default-settings/+bug/1233860") in Lubuntu 13.10
**Workaround**: modify lubuntu-rc.xml as described here:  ["Print Screen" doesn't work in Lubuntu 13.10?]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2185294")

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2013-11-02
**Problems with disabling tap-to-click in autostart**: in 13.04, it was possible to make entries in /etc/xdg/lxsession/Lubuntu/autostart. Adding "@synclient MaxTapTime=0" to autostart would disable tap-to-click. That [does not work]("http://askubuntu.com/q/369319/25656") in 13.10.
**Workaround**: use the new GUI provided by Menu, Preferences, Default applications for LXSession as described [here]("http://askubuntu.com/a/369366/25656").

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-11-11
Ok, just found out that cups-pdf doesn't work in Saucy, whatever you try to print it produces a blank page with the name PDF.pdf in the directory $HOME/PDF (strangely it does work with pdf-xchange-viewer in WiNE, which I use for filling pdf forms)

Here is the bug report and the work around in post #12 fixed my problem.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups-pdf/+bug/1236120](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/cups-pdf/+bug/1236120)

---

### Post by Lops on 2013-11-12
Hi there,

have a workaround for two bluetooth problems in saucy:


Problems:
1. bluetooth was not working for a2dp audio ( => "stream setup failed")
2. bluetooth device was always on by default on boot (google gave that this has been an issue in Ubuntu since years ...... very sad that)


Workarounds:
-> 1. In order to get bluetooth running at all I had to install the blueman package from debian's repositories. I took "blueman_1.23-1_amd64.deb"
        and locked that version to prevent useless updates

-> 2. Since im using a laptop (samsung np900x3f) and want to optimize (that is minimize) power consumption i want that bluetooth stays disabled
        after booting and logging in. But the bluetooth device is always ON by default even though I have changed the related entries (in /etc/blutooth/main.conf
"InitiallyPowered = false") => no effect.
Im using xubuntu 13.10 but I think that this is a general issue in ubuntu and from google searches I took that this problem has been occuring since years (!!!) . 
(for example [https://bugs.launchpad.net/blueman/+bug/908375](https://bugs.launchpad.net/blueman/+bug/908375))

For a workaround I did two things:
         
        a) add in /etc/rc.local before "exit 0":  "rfkill block bluetooth" (that alone is not enough, because after logging in bluetooth is reenabled through blueman)
        b) I figured out today that i had to disable the "KillSwitch" Plugin from the blueman tool (from the blueman menu you get using the right 
            mouse button on the bluetooth icon in the panel). The PowerManager plugin stays on.

Now, when toggling bluetooth on/off the bluetooth icon disappears for off-state. But thats not important to me. In on-state it just reappears. When i boot,
bluetooth is off now, if i want bluetooth it is on me to use the laptop's function keys for toggeling ON.
Obviously the KillSwitch plugin causes the problem, maybe in conjunction with the PowerManager Plugin it is depending on. Entries in diverse config files 
never brought an effect on the initial power state which I tried to get.
Other users had the same issues. I thinks its time for the ubuntu team to fix/stabilize these kind of BASIC things... i am getting really tired with that and i am not
the only one. If i wanted to have an OS being complicated or impossible to configure and to get running basic things with pain I could just stay with windows...

Greetings

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-11-15
[http://www.webupd8.org/2013/11/cinnamon-20-no-longer-breaks-unity-in.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2013/11/cinnamon-20-no-longer-breaks-unity-in.html)
A quick update for Ubuntu 13.10 users: the latest Cinnamon from the stable PPA no longer breaks Unity so it's safe to install it in Ubuntu 13.10

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-11-18
When viewing Youtube on older Intel graphics cards (82845, for example) the videos might turn into funky green/purple colours, and in general the resolution and colour depth is poor. 

The workaround is adding an xorg.conf as described [here]("https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/lubuntu-users/2013-November/006117.html").

---

### Post by siepo on 2013-11-18
> **vanadium said:**
> For those not liking to wade through three pages of messages: that was the one that worked for me.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2166020&p=12816007#post12816007](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2166020&p=12816007#post12816007)
It only worked with the beta version as mentionned in the post. I also tried the procedure with a stable deb, but although you can make the deb "installable" without errors, the executable still looks for libasound.so.2 at runtime.

I ended up installing the Citrix Receiver in a 32-bit Ubuntu 12.04 virtual machine. It appears to work ok, but I haven't tried to do any serious work with it.

---

### Post by mcsedave on 2013-11-20
Sorry, doesn't seem to work on my systems.  Skype is not available on the Ubuntu or Canonical menu's under 'all Software'.  It seemed to work fine until I upgraded to 13.10.  Now I'm considering downgrading to 13.4.  13.10 has nothing for me.  13.10 also does not recognize my web cam / mike (MS 7000).  I am on dual boot with Win 7 & Ubuntu on separate partitions.  Every time that I boot to the other system, the system clock jumps 6 hours ahead.  If one is concerned with the correct time coding of files etc. this could be a serious issue.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2013-11-20
> **mcsedave said:**
> Sorry, doesn't seem to work on my systems.  Skype is not available on the Ubuntu or Canonical menu's under 'all Software'.  It seemed to work fine until I upgraded to 13.10.  Now I'm considering downgrading to 13.4.  13.10 has nothing for me.  13.10 also does not recognize my web cam / mike (MS 7000).  I am on dual boot with Win 7 & Ubuntu on separate partitions.  Every time that I boot to the other system, the system clock jumps 6 hours ahead.  If one is concerned with the correct time coding of files etc. this could be a serious issue.

If you're looking for a very stable system that will work on all of your equipment I'd go with Precise 12.04 LTS. It's good until April 2017. Then when Trusty Tahr, also an LTS, reaches 14.04.1 upgrade to that.

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-11-21
> **mcsedave said:**
> Sorry, doesn't seem to work on my systems.  Skype is not available on the Ubuntu or Canonical menu's under 'all Software'.  It seemed to work fine until I upgraded to 13.10.  Now I'm considering downgrading to 13.4.  13.10 has nothing for me.  13.10 also does not recognize my web cam / mike (MS 7000).  I am on dual boot with Win 7 & Ubuntu on separate partitions.  Every time that I boot to the other system, the system clock jumps 6 hours ahead.  If one is concerned with the correct time coding of files etc. this could be a serious issue.

You need to enable the Partner repo in software sources.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2013-12-14
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1251915](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1251915)

In Unity Kde apps not recorded in the recently used lists in the dash. Workaround in the original bug report.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-12-20
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> Broken sound indicator on the xfce panel [[bug report]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-sound/+bug/1208204")]
the workaround for this is the replace the [FONT=courier new]Exec[/FONT] line of [FONT=courier new]/usr/share/dbus-1/services/indicator-sound.service[/FONT] with this line
```
Exec=/bin/sh -c 'if [ -n "$(ps -U $USER | grep xfce4-panel)" ]; then /usr/lib/indicator-sound-gtk2/indicator-sound-service;else /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/indicator-sound/indicator-sound-service;fi'
```
there is a installer for this workaround [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/indicator-sound/+bug/1208204/+attachment/3883770/+files/1208204.tar.gz") (from comment #65)
this has to be done every time the sound indicator is updated without a long term fix for this issue
This workaround is specific to the 64bit version
the workaround line for 32bit is this:
```
Exec=/bin/sh -c 'if [ -n "$(ps -U $USER | grep xfce4-panel)" ];  then /usr/lib/indicator-sound-gtk2/indicator-sound-service;else  /usr/lib/i386-linux-gnu/indicator-sound/indicator-sound-service;fi'
```

A fix for 13.10 has been released. The workaround mentioned above is not necessary any more.

---

### Post by syntaxerror74 on 2014-01-30
I strongly hope I'm not beating up a dead horse here...

I noticed that in vanilla Lubuntu (no idea about "genuine" Ubuntu) there was no response at all on any **SAK** (e. g. Alt-PrtSc-K) -- dead as a doornail. So this will be a huge problem for you if something really goes all wonky and you want to force the system into logout (well, this occasionally happens here).

[SIZE=2]It turned out the keys were *actually ***disabled in Lubuntu**, and so was the whole keyboard control of the "Magic Keys"!!
Old value was 176, JFTR.

Next step requires a **true root shell. **Not likely to work by 'sudoing' things.
[/SIZE][SIZE=1][SIZE=2]
```

# echo 180 > /proc/sys/kernel/sysrq

```[/SIZE]

[/SIZE][SIZE=2]Technical explanation:
When I counted the LSB as Bit 0, it occurred to me that Bit 2 was not set. (The latter, however, is mandatory for the SAK to work.)
Original bitmask was $B0, but it must be $B0 *OR* $4, which is $B4 (180).
(Wonder whoever got the creative idea of disabling this?? And WHY? I'll be damned if it wasn't another one of those security paranoiacs...)
Lastly, if you want to get this change permanent: the value is stored in [SIZE=3]*/etc/sysctl.d/10-magic-sysrq.conf*[/SIZE][/SIZE]

---

### Post by legend5459 on 2014-03-15
After compiling PPSSPP (PSP emulator) I ran into the error

```
nvidia libGL error: failed to load driver: swrast
libGL error: Try again with LIBGL_DEBUG=verbose for more details.
X Error of failed request:  GLXUnsupportedPrivateRequest   
Major opcode of failed request:  152 (GLX) 
  Minor opcode of failed request:  16 (X_GLXVendorPrivate)
Serial number of failed request:  34   Current serial number in output stream:  35
```

This was because of the nvidia drivers i was using. I worked around it by launching PPSSPPSDL like this:

```
LD_PRELOAD="/usr/lib/nvidia-current-updates/libGL.so.1" ./PPSSPPSDL
```

Some people may need to use

```
LD_PRELOAD="/usr/lib/nvidia-current/libGL.so.1" ./PPSSPPSDL
```

instead, because I am using possibly unstable, cutting edge drivers, not the certified stable ones.

This should apply to other programs as well.

---

