---
title: "14.04, Toshiba laptop, suspend - interesting development"
date: 2014-05-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-28
I've never paid much attention to the power options on my laptops before - I always just shut them down.  With my recent purchase of a Toshiba laptop I've just been closing the lid and it comes back up.  My power options only have nothing or suspend for lid closed - not exactly sure what that's supposed to be.  At any rate, I learned something interesting last night.  Perhaps this is already known.  I have a wireless mouse.  If I leave the receiver plugged in when it tries to "wake up" from suspend, it just sits there flashing a cursor at me on a dark screen and then I have to power cycle to be able to do anything.  Take the receiver out before closing the lid - works like a champ.  Which got me to thinking.  I know in the past, quite a long time ago now, I read a lot of threads on the forum about wireless not working after waking the PC up.   Hummmmmmm..........when I open the lid back up it takes a couple of seconds to go from network is disconnected to connected.  Which got me thinking - how many of these wireless mice, etc., might be causing a problem when Ubuntu is trying to come back from suspend, initialize the wireless, and get "hung" because of the wireless mouse/keyboard/etc..  My particular wireless mouse, like I imagine most if not all out there are, have a USB receiver.

Just a thought.  Has anyone else tried this and had the same results?  Perhaps it is any USB device plugged in?  Perhaps only wireless USB dongles?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-05-28
*Thread moved to **General Help**.*

Unsure if this is actually a support request or not, but given you the benefit of the doubt and moved it here rather than Ubuntu/OS Chat. Do you actually want support working out what is happening with your machine or just curious about the anomaly?

Well, the wireless mouse/keyboard is only wireless to the USB dongle, then the machine just sees it as a USB mouse/keyboard, more or less, so very different from a wireless card I'd say.

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-05-28
I think I would like this worked out if possible.  My suspicion is that what ever the underlying problem is for this may well be affecting others.

Thanks!   Hope all is well!

Dave ;

---

### Post by squakie on 2014-06-01
Here's the deal:  since 14.04 lots of people are having problems with USB devices like cameras, phones, etc..  My suspicion is that whatever underlies all of that is what is eventually going to be found to cause these problems, as I believe the adapter is not getting initialized or failing on initialization or not getting mounted.  This is common to those other USB devices that are having problems.

Just my suspicion.

---

