---
title: "Video Card problem"
date: 2007-12-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gdr8205 on 2007-12-01
hi all,
im running ubuntu 7.10 and im not sure if its using my video card to 100% of its potential.  i had window xp on this comp originally then tried to install ubuntu but completly wiped out xp, then i repartitiond my drive into 2 parts so i can dual boot. now xp is back but its not using my video card right at all one reason is b/c i never got the resources cd for xp.  so long story short how do i know if ubuntu is using the video card to 100% of its potential?  i ask this question b/c this computer was able to run pretty much nething i threw at it flawlessly, but things thatseem simple compared to games sumhow visually glitch up on ubuntu. one example is AWN especially after a reboot and the things are moving towards the bar seems to create verticle white lines.
thx in advance 
p.s. i still need hlp with my sound if any one can help me on this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=628342](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=628342)  if sumone could hlp me plz..

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-12-01
Could you please post your VGA card and also post the results of this:-

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by gdr8205 on 2007-12-01
umm im not sure what video card im using but heres the return of your cmd
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-70
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies Inc RV370 5B60 [Radeon X300 (PCIE)]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
#       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-12-01
From this entry:-

```
Driver "ati"
```

I can see that your xorg.conf is using the ATi driver, while this means that your ATi card should be working to it's full potential, it may not be so in your case since the current ATi driers are too buggy and causes many ATi users on Linux a lot of problems. 

But your problem concerning graphics will be fixed since the ATi drivers have gone Open Source which would mean a rather good improvement on the part of ATi drivers as the Linux community can now help in it's development.

---

### Post by gdr8205 on 2007-12-01
this is wut i get when i type: Driver "ati"  into the terminal:
bash: Driver: command not found

so  its glitchy b/c im using ATI n ur sayn that it should soon get fixed with sum type of update or is there something i can install now thatll fix this problem?

---

### Post by gdr8205 on 2007-12-01
o i c the Driver: "ati" was from the output lol i feel stupid

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-12-01
Everyone makes mistakes gdr8205, it is what makes us human:).

Anyway, yes, most likely it will be fixed, and when it is you can either install the driver manually or wait until the driver is included in the repositories so that you can update it just like any other application or component.

---

### Post by gdr8205 on 2007-12-01
haha

hey thx for ur hlp on this, i cant wait till they update these drivers.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2007-12-01
> i cant wait till they update these drivers.

So do a lot of people who use ATi VGA cards on Linux;).

---

