---
title: "Strange Problem with Compiz"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by netanakin on 2008-05-01
I had a strange problem with compiz Desktop Effects. After configuring my onboard intel 865 Grapics card from vesa to intel experimental modsetting and also reconfiguring the XServer (XORG) completely using the wizard i am experiencing a strange problem.

Actually what happened was due to my low system RAM and lackof a proper graphic card my system slowed downl and i had to end compiz and turn to no desktop effects, when i did so my original screen resolution that was 1152 x 864 was not fully working. Actually only the 800x600 resolution part of the screen on top left corner of the Screen was actually active and working. Rest of the screen showed the glass emerald borders and compiz screen but was not responding.

When i reverted back to Compiz everything went out fine and there was no problem. i also tried metacity --replace command in which emerald was replaced by metacity still same problem occurred and i was unable to use the higher resolution of 1152x864.

But when i tried a resolution of 800x600 with no desktop effect everything was fine.
Remark: My login window is configured for 800x600 resoultion. And my xorg (after reconfiguring xserver) is not showing any modeline or resolution information.
My Computer Specs are as follows (if required):

Intel P IV 3.06 GHZ, 1MB L2 Cache,
256MB DDR2 RAM
Intel Integrated Graphics 2 (96 MB Shared Video Memory)
Samsung Samtron Monitor 56v
80 GB Sata HDD + 40 GB (IDE) HDD.
DVD ROM + CD RW LiteOn Combo Disc Drive

If my xorg is required i will post it soon as well.

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-05-01
As for slowdowns, I think you want to make sure you don't have the **xserver-xgl** package installed. At least this is the case for Nvidia and ATI cards.

But yes, please provide the contents of your xorg.

---

### Post by netanakin on 2008-05-01
Yes i did install xserver-xgl, but i donot have a nvidia.:KS:KS
Is the package causing the slow down? will be posting the Xorg soon.

---

### Post by netanakin on 2008-05-01
Below is my Xorg.conf preview, hope it helps.

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ExplorerPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"SAMSUNG SAMTRON 56V"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-55
	VertRefresh	50-120
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"SAMSUNG SAMTRON 56V"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth 	24
		Virtual 1152	864
		Modes		"1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by netanakin on 2008-05-01
Well i have removed xserver-xgl from synaptic package manager, but the system speed is still the same ie. sluggishly slow.

---

### Post by netanakin on 2008-05-01
I am really losing my patience since it is so slow and when i again revert back to no desktop effects, the only resolution that is possible to work completely is 800x 600 and my desktop looks a lot cluttered.

Please someone help.

---

### Post by netanakin on 2008-05-04
No need of any help anymore. Reason: i have ripped off Gutsy off my system and in comes hardy which ran Compiz out of the box.thanks 2 u ubuntu community for such a great release.no problem as mentioned above in resolution and really looking forward to move ahead with hardy.

---

### Post by netanakin on 2008-05-04
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>Thread Closed<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<

---

