---
title: "20.04 broke both RStudio and Steam in the exact same way"
date: 2020-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kinite4067 on 2020-05-12
Upon opening, both RStudio and Steam follow the exact same pattern. They will spend a second or two on my panel, giving the impression that they're opening, Steam will even try to update for a moment, and then they will start to take up about 3GB of RAM and then crash. Steam gives no errors, but RStudio gives a crash report page that contains "rsession crashed with SIGABRT in raise()".

I did try to purge and reinstall Steam, and I also deleted /home/.steam and /home/steam/, and this did work. In fact, it even managed to updated a few times. However, once these updates were done, the above issue returned.
 
Where can I investigate these issues? What parts of my hardware/software configuration may be relevant? I'm currently running Xubuntu 20.04 on a Lenovo S340 Ideapad. I was previously running 19.10. My _strace steam_ output is [here]("https://pastebin.com/948K1nq8"). Opening RStudio in the terminal gives [this incomprehensible output]("https://pastebin.com/cPQLs2ab") and _strace rstudio_ returns complete madness that is beyond my ability to paste anywhere (it's 12MB).

UPDATE: [The permanent solution here]("https://support.rstudio.com/hc/en-us/articles/360017886674-Troubleshooting-RStudio-Rendering-Errors") has fixed RStudio and **this fix suggests that this is a graphical issue**. In support of this claim,** I've also discovered that VLC Media Player will play audio files but not video files**. If it's any help, my graphics card is an Intel Corporation UHD Graphics 620 (Whiskey Lake). I believe that it's integrated.

Fix found: Apparently it's [this bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mesa/+bug/1876219"). Add 'export MESA_LOADER_DRIVER_OVERRIDE=i965' to /home/[username]/.profile to fix.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2020-05-12
What is your graphic card?

---

### Post by kinite4067 on 2020-05-12
I'm pretty sure it's integrated. It's a Intel Corporation UHD Graphics 620 (Whiskey Lake).

It's good that you suspect a graphics issue, I've just learned that VLC is playing audio files but crashing on video files.

---

### Post by kinite4067 on 2020-05-13
Updated OP.

---

