---
title: "7.04 did not detect windows XP"
date: 2007-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gunio6 on 2007-04-20
hallo, 

i have been happy ubuntu edgy user for 6 months. yesterday i deleted my edgy and installed ubuntu 7.04. the system installed itself and runs fine, but my windows XP was not detected and the duall bot menu upon boot of system does not come up  :confused: 
i am using the same hard for both systems and its partitioned into two part windows / ubuntu. 
practically i am not able to use my windows right now. any suggestions how can i fix this problem ?

thanks in advance.

---

### Post by lassegs on 2007-04-20
***  Removed because of faulty information. See post 5 for explanation on how to add Windows to your boot grub menu

---

### Post by gunio6 on 2007-04-20
fdisk -l  does not list the disks and i cant find out its name :(

---

### Post by lassegs on 2007-04-20
I'm sorry. I meant 

sudo fdisk -l

---

### Post by lassegs on 2007-04-20
Omg im so sorry. This isnt the right information at all.

I so seldomly edit the menu.lst so I forgot that linux and Grub names disks differently

Linux does this <typeofhd (hd, sd etc.)><hd ( a, b & c)><partition ( 1, 2 & 3) >   so it looks like this  hda1
[I]Example:
The third partition on my second disk would look like this  hdb3 
My second disk is this   hdb
this is the third partition      3
[/I]
**_However:_**
Grub doesn't name it this way, but quite similar:
<disk(hd)><disknr. (0, 1 & 2)>,<partitionnr(0, 1 & 2)>
so it looks like this   hd0,1

[I]Example:
My third partition on my second disk is hd1,2 (1 and 2  instead of 2 and 3 because grub starts to count disks from zero)
This is my second disk hd1
This is my third partition    ,2[/I]

 The difference is actually only that linux counts disks with letters (a, then b, then c, so on.) while grub does the same with numbers (0, then 1, then 2, so on). And dont forget the "," that grub uses between the disknumber and partitionnumber like this hd0,1 (first disk, second partition.) And that grub starts to count from zero, while linux counts first partition as 1.

_So do this_
> sudo fdisk -l
Find the Windows disk. Lets say here its sda1 (if its hda or sda, grub doesnt care which it is it calls them both for hd)
> gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst
insert this: 
> title Windows XP
root (hd0,0)          #hd0,0 because the windows disk was called sda1 by linux
makeactive
chainloader +1

save. Reboot. You should now be ok.
[I]
This got a little lengthy, but it should cover it so read thurougly. If you dont understand, just post the output of "sudo fdisk -l" here, and i'll tell you what to enter into /boot/grub/menu.lst.

 Im so sorry I gave you the wrong information before. Won't happen again.[/I]

---

### Post by gunio6 on 2007-04-21
i menage to do it :)
thanks for the useful info.

---

### Post by aligulum on 2007-04-21
it also helped me a lot...

thank you so much...:)

---

### Post by lassegs on 2007-04-23
Thats great!

---

