---
title: "/ is 1.8 GB, reported as 3.5 GB"
date: 2009-07-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by transmition on 2009-07-13
Alright, so let me explain my main situation, and how I got here. Perhaps you will be able to help me out.

I am running ubuntu 9.04 in virtualbox.

When I run the disk usage analyzer, It says that / is 1.8 GB. However, it also says that I have used 3.5 GB of my 7.7 GB.

I have no idea where this extra 1.7 GB of space is coming from.

"df" reports that I have used 3.5 GB of my system as well.

Now to explain the weird stuff I did to get here.

I am trying to produce my own customized version of ubuntu using remastersys. So I created a 3 GB virtual disk in virtualbox, customized ubuntu, and prepared to run remastersys, only to discover that I needed far more storage.

So I followed this guide: [http://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=17512](http://forums.virtualbox.org/viewtopic.php?f=3&t=17512)

and cloned my install to an 8 GB virtual disk.

Everything seemed to be running fine, so I ran remastersys and produced a 660 mb ISO of my install. I tested it out, to discover that I had missed some things (like my themes) so I needed to change couple things (moving 4 mb worth of files to /etc/skel/)

I boot up my system again, make my changes, delete the old remastersys folder containing the old ISO and data, run remastersys, only to end up producing a 1.9 GB ISO (filling my disk to its maximum capacity).

I check the disk usage analyzer to see what happened to make my installation so much bigger as to produce this giant ISO.

Which is where I am at now. I have 1.7 GB of space that I can't seem to find. Can anyone help me?

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-07-13
Have you emptied the trash and looked for hidden files? (Be careful about deleting hidden files, they're often hidden for safety purposes and deleting them can sometimes hurt your system)

---

### Post by transmition on 2009-07-13
What would be the best way to search for these hidden files? Could you advise a command or something?

Also, shouldn't root be reporting the hidden files as part of the filesize anyway?

---

