---
title: "Another Compiz Question/Problem"
date: 2008-09-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by breathoflife on 2008-09-22
I would like to go ahead and apologize in advance because im sure this question has already been answerd but to the best of my ability I cant find it or simply don't recognize it.  Im very new to Linux.

Im running 8.04 and trying to get compiz to work.  I have the graphics driver enabled and it seems to be working with my Nvidia Vanta 16.  I installed Emerald and the compizconfig-settings-manager with the synaptic package monitor.  I added emerald to the start up cue, rebooted, and i believe its running but then I try to run compiz from a terminal I get:

administrator@administrator-desktop:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 10de:002c (rev 15) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

Not sure whats goin on, would love any help
Thanks

---

### Post by timcredible on 2008-09-22
start compiz by right-clicking on desktop, pick 'change desktop background', visual effects, extra.  you need that before running emerald.  also, the emerald command is ```
emerald --replace
```, just in case you need it.

---

### Post by breathoflife on 2008-09-22
"Desktop effects could not be enabled"?

Is this the result of a problem with the legacy drivers and my Nvidia Vanta-16?

---

### Post by howefield on 2008-09-22
Open a terminal and type 

```
compiz
```

and post the output.

---

### Post by breathoflife on 2008-09-22
administrator@administrator-desktop:~$ compiz
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 01:00.0 0300: 10de:002c (rev 15) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-09-22
It may be worth running [[COLOR="Red"]compiz-check[/COLOR]]("http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Check") as this may give you additional information.  Are you using the restricted driver for your display card ?  It may be worth enabling backports in software sources.

---

### Post by breathoflife on 2008-09-22
Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         nVidia Corporation NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT] (rev 15)
 Driver in use:         nvidia
 Rendering method:      Nvidia

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [FAIL]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [FAIL]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...
ERROR: NV-CONTROL extension version 1.6 is too old; the minimimum required
       version is 1.11.

./compiz-check: line 715: [: : integer expression expected
           [ OK ]
Thank you for the check program, im not sure what the error indicates though or if there is any way to fix it. Any suggestions are appreciated

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-09-22
Am I right in thinking the card only has 16Mb of memory ?  It may be that it doesn't support 3D graphics acceleration as it's quite an old card.  There is something we could try, please post your xorg.conf file.  This can be found in the /etc/X11 directory.  We may need to change the graphics driver file and add a module to it.

---

### Post by breathoflife on 2008-09-22
16MB is correct unfortunately, I wasent expecting much performance but if you think its incapable of running with only 16mb then I will throw in the towel.  Otherwise my xorg.conf file is as follows:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"UseEdidFreqs"	"True"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Much appreciation, Thanks

---

### Post by benerivo on 2008-09-22
In your xorg.conf you could try adding the following list of lines, directly in between these two lines (inside Section "Screen")

Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"

```
	Option		"RenderAccel" "True"
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"  "True"
	Option		"DamageEvents" "True"
	Option		"UseEvents" "False"
	Option		"TripleBuffer" "True"
	Option		"BackingStore" "True"
```

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2008-09-23
Try changing the video driver from
```
Driver "nvidia"
```
to
```
Driver         "nv"
```
Save, reboot and see if this helps.
Also try adding a module to the end of the code
```
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```
Again save, reboot and see what happens.
Under System - Preferences - Appearance - Visual Effects can you set them to Extra ?  Probably best to leave them where they were set to if not.

---

