---
title: "Logical Block Size of 4096 on Samsung Mini S1 causes gparted to fail"
date: 2009-08-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bolucpap on 2009-08-29
Hello, I just bought a Samsung S1 Mini External drive (120gb) with hopes to transfer the Ubuntu (which I boot from, using a number of work and home computers) and NTFS Data partitions from my Maxtor Basics Portable since the S1 Mini is much easier to carry around. When I connect the drive, Ubuntu sees and mounts it fine, but in order to boot from it I try to use GParted to set up the partitions to resemble the ones on my Maxtor; and that's where the trouble starts. First of all, the graphical map shows the disk as having one Unknown Partition of size 13.97 GB (which is EXACTLY 1/8 of its actual capacity). So I ran gksu gparted to see if it was throwing up any errors, and sure enough :
```
Device /dev/sde has a logical sector size of 4096.  Not all parts of GNU Parted support this at the moment, and the working code is HIGHLY EXPERIMENTAL.

``` fdisk -l has the following output for the relevant drive:
```
Note: sector size is 4096 (not 512)

Disk /dev/sde: 120.0 GB, 120034123776 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 1824 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 4096 = 65802240 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000001

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sde1               1        1824   117209988    7  HPFS/NTFS

```It seems to me that I will not be able to boot Ubuntu from this drive until I get the logical volume size to 512 somehow, or until parted starts supporting this size (tried karmic alpha 4, it doesnt - yet) 

Any thoughts? Any tools to convert? Any help would be much much appreciated.

Thanks in advance,
Boluc Papuccuoglu

---

### Post by bolucpap on 2009-08-30
bump?

---

### Post by jomeier on 2009-09-06
Hi,

I have the same usb hard drive and the same problem. Does anybody have a solution?

Regards,

Josef

---

### Post by lokster on 2009-10-15
I just bought the same disk - S1 Mini 120GB and have the same problem.
The Ubuntu installer does not detect the drive correctly, gparted, cfdisk, fdisk, parted... nothing works.
The disk can be mounted and used, once formatted under Windows, but I can't install Ubuntu on it.

I bought it to disassemble and mount it inside my Acer Aspire One (a little mod), but it looks like this will not happen soon... :(

Is there a way to actually change the disk geometry, or fool Ubuntu about it?

---

### Post by triplefox on 2009-10-21
I am also having this problem with the S1. I wanted to use it for a portable install with my EEE 900. cfdisk reported the correct 120GB size and wrote new partition data without complaint, but gparted says it is 16GB, and it will not mount.

---

### Post by ApolloDS on 2009-12-03
Hi all

Exactly same problem here with the S1 mini 250GB version

:-(

---

### Post by macalaki on 2009-12-04
Hi, it seems there is some issue with Samsung USB HDDs. I have Samsung S2 500 GB and the same problem. I'am wondering if it is a hardware constrain and there is no way how to install Ubuntu, or someone has already solution for this ? :)

---

### Post by rainer_w on 2009-12-12
Hi,
I have yet to disassemble my S1 mini drive (120GB) but this is what I found on the web regarding the drive installed inside of the 250GB enclosure:

A picture in this article shows one of the drives to be a Samsung Spinpoint N3U (for the 250 GB version)
[http://www.gizmag.com/first-look-samsungs-tiny-18-inch-s1-mini-the-smallest-external-hard-dr/12733/](http://www.gizmag.com/first-look-samsungs-tiny-18-inch-s1-mini-the-smallest-external-hard-dr/12733/)

Which according to this article has no physical IDE/SATA interface whatsoever:
[http://www.mydigitallife.info/2009/07/11/samsung-spinpoint-n3u-1-8-250gb-hard-drive-utilizes-native-usb-interface/](http://www.mydigitallife.info/2009/07/11/samsung-spinpoint-n3u-1-8-250gb-hard-drive-utilizes-native-usb-interface/)

So, unless Samsung used different drives with different interfaces (or someone already disassembled his/her drive an therefore can tell) it seems we might be out of luck.

---

### Post by rainer_w on 2009-12-12
Sorry, had to remove a double post due to an error message generated by the webserver.

---

### Post by mathew-dong on 2009-12-12
Regards

---

### Post by reedzsu on 2010-04-09
The same as me.

I formated and partitioned the samsung s1 mini 120G by using windows xp.
Then under lubuntu 10.04 beta1, I use the disk ultility to format the main partition to ext4.
Then I ran the installer.
But the bootloader cannot be intalled, and the MBR cannot be writted.

How could I do?

---

### Post by andso on 2010-04-16
Hi,
some links but no way
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gparted/+bug/408971](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gparted/+bug/408971)
[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?pid=2851547#p2851547](http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?pid=2851547#p2851547)
[http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?pid=3407953#p3407953](http://forum.ubuntu-fr.org/viewtopic.php?pid=3407953#p3407953)

---

### Post by sadr1an1 on 2010-04-18
same problem here, with the exact hard drive

---

### Post by sadr1an1 on 2010-05-18
no more posts here? so the problem persists...

---

### Post by dandnsmith on 2010-05-18
I'm not offering a solution but, if you would like more info as to why it doesn't work and some comments about the situation, consult [this site](http://www.rodsbooks.com/) (not mine), and follow the 4K disk blocks link, which leads on to other data and sites.

Good Hunting

---

### Post by sadr1an1 on 2010-05-18
Trust me i have read all the articles, but there is no solution yet. My problem is simple, i have a samsung mini s1 and i want to boot from it... I was thinking to trick somehow grub, to make a mini partition with 512 k just for grub, what do you think?

---

### Post by srs5694 on 2010-05-18
The 4096-byte sector issues described on my Web site (to which dandnsmith linked) are entirely different from the issues under discussion in this thread. My site includes some information on so-called "Advanced Format" drives, which use 4096-byte *physical* sectors and 512-byte *logical* sectors. In other words, the disk is physically divided into 4096-byte sectors, but the OS sees it like a normal disk with 512-byte sectors. Most tools, including disk partitioning tools, see the disk as a normal 512-byte-sector disk, so there are no really basic compatibility issues, although there are performance implications of this configuration.

The problem under discussion in this thread is that the disk appears to the OS as having 4096-byte *logical* sectors. The physical sector size is probably actually 512 bytes, although it's possible it's got true 4096-byte physical sectors, too. Partitioning tools must therefore understand 4096-byte logical sectors, but GParted lacks that support -- at least, the versions being used by the posters lack the necessary support. Likewise, support in the BIOS (for booting the disk) and boot loader (for later parts of the boot process) may be lacking. This is the fundamental reason for Advanced Format drives to "fake" a 512-byte logical sector size: Too many tools flake out when presented with a 4096-byte logical sector size.

It's conceivable that a newer version of GParted (and/or the underlying libparted) would fix the problem with GParted, and likewise for the BIOS and boot loader. I can't guarantee this, though. For non-boot use of the disk, if GParted doesn't work, the simple solution is to use something else. Both fdisk (for MBR disks) and my own gdisk (for GPT disks) work fine with disks that use 4096-byte sectors. These tools only manipulation partitions, so if you use one of these tools, you'll need to use other tools, such as mkfs and mkswap, to create filesystems or swap space on the partitions. There are tons of sites that describe how to use these tools; just Google them; or check their man pages.

Unfortunately, BIOS upgrades are rare, so if you want to boot from such a disk but the BIOS presents a problem, you may be out of options. There is no easy workaround to this problem; you'll just have to contact the motherboard vendor or boot from another disk. If the boot loader is presenting problems, look for an update or change boot loaders (GRUB Legacy, GRUB 2, and LILO are the three most common Linux boot loaders).

---

### Post by sadr1an1 on 2010-05-20
therer is a newer version of gparted, i have founded it on fedora 13 beta installer. it recognizes well the disk, it makes partition ok, it installs with no error, but still i cannot boot from samsung mini :(

---

### Post by tinybuntu on 2010-06-05
I also have this disk and I also have the same problems with it as reported here multiple times. What I have achieved though is the following:

I have used "qemu" on it like this:

```

qemu -m 512 /dev/sdc -cdrom ubuntu-10.04-desktop-i386.iso -boot d

```

This works flawlesly including the disk partitioner that is run as a part of the install process. The resulting installation can be booted via qemu, however, I have not yet found a computer with a BIOS that can boot from this device natively.

---

### Post by andso on 2010-06-19
great new:
[http://gparted.sourceforge.net/news.php](http://gparted.sourceforge.net/news.php)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gparted/+bug/405022](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gparted/+bug/405022)

solved

:guitar:

---

