---
title: "32 or 64?"
date: 2007-01-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by solarwind on 2007-01-12
Hi all,

I have recently purchased an AMD Athlon 4200+ socket AM2 dual core processor. **It is a 64 bit processor.** I would like to know which version of (K)Ubuntu to install, the regular 32 bit or the 64 bit version.

:confused:

---

### Post by BillGod on 2007-01-12
Its a 64 bit processor by google query.  64 bit will give you performance boost.

---

### Post by Delkster on 2007-01-12
> **solarwind said:**
> I have recently purchased an AMD Athlon 4200+ socket AM2 dual core processor. I would like to know which version of (K)Ubuntu to install, the regular 32 bit or the 64 bit version.

I don't know much about recent CPUs but if it's a 64-bit one, using a 64-bit operating system will give you better performance. Installing some applications, such as a flash plugin for the browser, may be more troublesome, though, because some such programs don't have native 64-bit versions yet.

---

### Post by solarwind on 2007-01-12
Ooops, I should have mentioned, I know it's a 64 bit processor, but I want to know if it's worth it to go for a 64 bit distro of (K)Ubuntu.

Ahh, those plugins and compatibility are more important than bleeding edge performance for me. I guess 32 is better for me then?

---

### Post by notatoad on 2007-01-12
i had 64bit installed for a while, i've since switched to 32bit.  i find 32 runs better and has much fewer compatibility issues

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2007-01-12
i agree with notatoad.  my first linux install was dapper 64 and i fought it for 3 months before 
installing 32 bit dapper.  there were a lot of compatibility issues, driver issues and general
annoyances.  the final straw was that wine (32 bit api) was, of course, pretty flaky and i really
needed to run a couple of old winapps.

if you are experienced with linux and ubuntu and adept at compiling, then 64 is something to
consider.  i will probably take another crack at it when i'm a little more comfortable with things.

honestly, i do not notice a speed difference between 32 and 64 bit distros.  i absolutely notice
that 32bit is considerably more stable and hassle-free.

---

### Post by ~LoKe on 2007-01-12
32Bit.  You'll have a hell of a time getting some things to run on 64Bit.  I might give 64bit a try, sometime.

---

### Post by Wim Sturkenboom on 2007-01-13
For desktop use, I vote for 32 bit as well (see comments above with regards to 'compatibility).
For a server you can use 64 bit and for heavy number crunching 64 bit will give you some performance gain.

---

### Post by blitze on 2007-01-13
Running Feisty 64 Testing here and I have found it very good.

Flash, to be honest I'm glad I don't have it and YouTube is stupid anyway.

Works well in general and if you install the 32bit libs 32bit compat is good.  Something I think that has been worked on over Edgy/Dapper.

---

### Post by pay on 2007-01-13
I use amd64 and I think that it runs very well. For plugins like flash you can use either gnash or nspluginwrapper. Nspluginwrapper allows all those 32bit plugins to run on an 64bit browser. You can also install a 32bit version of firefox on a 64bit operating system with 32bit plugins.

---

### Post by compwiz18 on 2007-01-13
64: I've been using it for a couple of months, and only found one thing that wouldn't run, and that was probably because I couldn't figure out how to compile it.

but be warned, flash/java and wine will be a little tricky at the start, but plenty of tutorials for them.  On the upside, it takes about 45 minutes to compile the kernel on my 1.8ghz laptop with 64bit.

---

### Post by Enverex on 2007-01-13
> **BillGod said:**
> Its a 64 bit processor by google query.  64 bit will give you performance boost.

That's virtually a myth. The only things that will have better performance will be things like encoding/decoding encryption/decryption, etc. Normal every-day applications wont be any different at all.

I'd go with 32bit (and I have, I'm on an Athlon64 too) simply because the only thing 64bit provides at the moment are incompatibilities. You really wont be losing out and it will make life easier for you.

---

### Post by blitze on 2007-01-13
and your incompatibilities on the whole Bill, are a myth as well.  Horses for courses.

---

### Post by Enverex on 2007-01-13
...

I ran a 64bit distro for over a year, I'm full-well aware of incompatability issues when trying to run 32bit apps on 64bit distros (and other issues such as drivers for certain devices, etc). The "performance" argument is just one that people "assume" is there.

---

