---
title: "8.10 wont shutdown"
date: 2008-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sanddgroper on 2008-11-03
Hi All
I downloaded and installed 8.10 today only to find I
can't shut it down unless I do a hard reset.
While I have seen the problem mentioned I have not
been able to find any mention of a fix.Is anyone else
seeing this problem.
On completion of the install when ask to restart the computer
it just hung and I had to do a hard reset.On rebooting the computer
it booted fine but when I went to shutdown again it hung again.
By selecting ctrl+alt+f1 and then ctrl+alt+f7 I get to a page
were the last entry is shutting down alsa and a blinking cursor
and the only option is a hard reset.My sound card is onboard
could alsa be having some problem with it.I have 8.04lts running
just fine on the same machine.In fact I have installed 8.04 on the
drive I had 8.10 on and am using it to post this message.
If anyone knows how to fix this that would be great otherwise I
guess I will just continue to use 8.04.

Cheers
Sandy

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-11-03
Does it say?:
```
* Shutting down ALSA...                                                 [ OK ]
```
or just:
```
* Shutting down ALSA...
```
If it's the first one, then the problem probably isn't with sound/ALSA, but whatever script is being executed next.

If you don't get an [ OK ] after "Shutting Down ALSA.."
The next time before shutting down, close all open programs, open a terminal (Applications -> Accessories -> Terminal) and enter:
```
sudo sh /etc/init.d/alsa-utils stop
```
If that returns [OK], try shutting down. If not, post any error messages here.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-11-03
Actually, a lot of people are experiencing this issue. There is no official fix yet.
Some users have found that their systems will shutdown properly if they kill their network and/or wireless connections (either manually entering the command(s) or adding it to the beginning of the stop section in the /etc/init.d/alsa-utils script)
Try this the next time before you shut down:
```
sudo ifconfig eth0 down
sudo ifconfig wlan0 down
```
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-utils/+bug/274995](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/alsa-utils/+bug/274995)

---

### Post by EddieA on 2008-11-03
I've got this problem too - shutting down network worked for me.
Never had a problem with previous releases.
Eddie

---

### Post by sanddgroper on 2008-11-03
Thanks for the replies
Temujin thanks for the link it looks like it has been a problem
for some time.My post was to see if there was a fix for it and
it appears at the moment the answer to that is no.
I have installed 8.04 instead as it works fine.As it is a spare 
drive I am using I may reinstall 8.10 and have a play with it.
Temujin it is the second of your questions I see.

Shutting down ALSA and then a blinking cursor.I never waited the five minutes till ALSA timed out to see if 8.10 actually shutdown.

Thanks again

Cheers
Sandy

---

### Post by aminor on 2008-11-03
Hey everyone.
A quick work-around that fixed this for me; enable volume control (alsa-utils) in administration->services. Try to restart and see if that does it.

Good luck.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-11-03
> **sanddgroper said:**
> Hi All
I downloaded and installed 8.10 today only to find I
can't shut it down unless I do a hard reset.
......

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6099553&postcount=18](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=6099553&postcount=18)

---

