---
title: "Karmic - black screen, no grub menu, no boot"
date: 2009-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by flower71 on 2009-11-03
Installed Karmic RC two weeks ago, and had the Grub 15 error; didn't get around to researching it until Karmic final was out, so I reinstalled fresh (however, I think I still have the beta grub2).  

This time I researched and discovered Herman's wonderful (and simple!) command to fix the Grub 15 error from the LiveCD.

([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8201635](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8201635))

Happily used Karmic for several days; although if I had a Wine app running full-screen and switched desktops, it would send X into a tailspin of flickering until I shut down ubuntu.  :(

After one of these shutdowns (through the menubar, not the power button), the grub menu simply failed to come up again.  I eyeballed the grub2 config files (both the autogenerated and the /etc/grubd files) and don't see anything odd about them... but after my bios start up pages, I just get...

A black screen, with a white flickering cursor about 6 lines down from the top.

I saw other people reporting similar problems AFTER the grub menu, which generally seem to come down to video driver issues (I have nvidia), but this is before it should even try to start loading xwindows, so I'm fairly confident that it is not an X graphics driver problem.

Anyone out there have any ideas?  I did chroot from the LiveCD and reinstall grub2 (based on the [Ubuntu wiki instructions]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Reinstalling%20GRUB%202") ), but that didn't change anything.

I'll keep searching for info; I don't know of any "grub errors log" and I don't even know for certain if it's getting as far as grub itself (maybe the failure is in the bios?) but I'd love to hear suggestions...

Meghan

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-11-03
Try [this](http://prdownload.berlios.de/supergrub/sgd_cdrom_1.21.iso.gz) just to see if you can boot at all. I couldn't find a repair option on this version, but it will at least let you check if it's actually a grub error or another boot error.
BTW, SGD 0.9799 has a repair option, but it's only for legacy grub, so....yeah.

---

### Post by flower71 on 2009-11-03
Thanks; tried downloading supergrub a couple of weeks back since it sounded like a good thing to have around, but at the time I couldn't find a working mirror.  Downloaded this and am burning it to cd; we'll see if it is able to solve my problem...

---

### Post by flower71 on 2009-11-03
Well, through supergrub's magic boot I'm happily back into my Karmic.  Still not sure what the issue is though, and I'd hate to be stuck using supergrub to boot from now until I reinstall...

I guess that at least rules out a few things!  Getting late here, I'll pick back up tomorrow night and see if I can make any progress...

Thanks again for the tip, stealthpsycho.  :)

Meghan

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-11-04
N/p. Next try sudo update grub.
Conversely you could go into Synaptic (I don't know the console commands for this) mark grub 2 for complete removal (I'd reboot here, but it's probably unnecessary) then mark it with all dependencies for reinstall.

---

### Post by flower71 on 2009-11-04
Of all the dumb mistakes...

I had a usb card-reader plugged in to download my camera's pictures; got interrupted partway through and forgot it was still plugged in.  

My bios doesn't act as if it supports boot-from-usb (it's not in the list of options anywhere), but I should have remembered this problem - my son was just reminding me last week that if he forgets to unplug his iPod before starting up the computer, Jaunty won't load (still on legacy grub).

Anyway, removed the usb drive, rebooted, and everything loaded up perfectly.

Aaargh!!  Wish grub2 could have at least given me some sort of error message...

---

### Post by ST3ALTHPSYCH0 on 2009-11-05
ROTFLOL... Glad everything's 5x5. Unpluggind a USB device is moi, moi much better than having to go through a grub reinstall.

---

