---
title: "18.04 Writing to All drives while idle every ~3sec"
date: 2019-03-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by um9 on 2019-03-20
Hello

I finally built my 1st Linux box so I can get away from windows, please forgive my lack of knowledge as I am learning as fast as possible.

From boot till I turn the machine off the HDD LED is flashing and I can hear my two HDD writing/reading when the machine is idle.
For the 1st week I did not have this issue, now I do and it is driving me nuts.  I am concerned that this issue will wear out my drives faster.
I have one SSD as my main drive and two HDD as storage and backup. So far the only way to stop the sound is disconnect power to the HDD, but the light will continue to blink. I assume it is still using the SSD. If I boot using ubuntu on a flash drive I do not have this issue.  If I unmount the drives they still make sound.  I tried removing several programs that are drive hogs with no luck.  I also reinstalled a minimal copy of ubuntu with no luck.  I did some reading and started using iotop. Two commands are suspicious kworker/u256 and jbd2/nvme0n1p2.  I am not sure where to go from here, but this has to stop.  
I thank you for help and suggestions in advance

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-03-20
There are thousands of reasons for storage to be active.  If running programs keep temporary files, any change to those temporary files will need to update the modification time or last access times of the file pointer.  You can disable those, but it has security implications.

If there is a swap partition or swap file, that will be used almost continuously, especially on systems that need more RAM than is physically installed. You can prevent the swap file/device from being used, but if too many programs are running and no more RAM is left, then the system will crash.  This happens for every modern OS.

To get more granular on the cause for disk access, you'll need to simplify what runs and look at each file used by each program. That is possible using developer tools like **strace** and **lsof**. There are other tools. These are not tools for Unix beginners, but besides making the system slower and using lots of RAM and taking multi-threaded applications to be single threaded, they don't harm anything - but misinterpreting the output will waste lots of your time.

Unfortunately, learning how Unix/Linux works is a multi-year effort.  Just stay away from the GUI stuff and you'll learn much more, more quickly, and not have to re-learn it in 3 yrs when a new GUI is forced onto us.

---

### Post by um9 on 2019-03-21
I grew up using DOS so it feels real nice to use a terminal again.  Thanks for the advice.  This machine has plenty of RAM so I doubt it is a swap file issue. System monitor says I am not even close to using up my RAM.  Still I will check if I have a swap file just in case.  I do not have a swap partition. 
I still find it odd that all three drive are being accessed.  I am calling this Ubuntu Hard Drive torture as the clunk is slowly driving me mad
From what you are saying I should look to see what files are being written to just as soon as figure out how to do that.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-03-21
To get the best help here, use the commands and options suggests, check the manpage for each command if you don't understand and then post the exact command and requested output.  We cannot read minds. What you post here is all we know and descriptions can be misinterpreted.  Basically, prove it, don't write about it.

Lastly, text is much preferred, wrapped in "code tags" so things line up, not screen captures.  We are familiar with the shell command output.  

For example, it reads like you've assumed disk access equals writes.  It could easily be reads.

---

### Post by um9 on 2019-04-01
Thank you for the advice.   My response time is slow due to so much going on in my life.
I freely admit that I am so new to linux that simple functions take me time to learn.
I am pretty sure it is writing and not accessing.  
That is based off of iotop telling me it is writing to the disk.
As soon as I figure out how to record those results I will post them.  
thanks again :)

---

