---
title: "Display Preferences."
date: 2009-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by br3tikur on 2009-05-17
Alright, I asked for help but earlier but apparently the screen shot of 4chan in the background was offending (I'm very sorry, but 4chan humour is just really crazy). Now I'm not breaking any rules.
Please help me?

The problem is:
My screen resolution has changed to 1024 x 768, I want it back to my regular 1400 x 1050.
Please help me anyone?

[IMG]http://img297.imageshack.us/img297/2936/screenshotncr.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Joeb454 on 2009-05-17
What are the options in the drop-down menu?

Have you changed or updated your graphics driver/settings recently?

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-17
Open Terminal, type in the following and post contents here:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by br3tikur on 2009-05-17
Thank you guys! That worked!:D
Thank you so much!

---

### Post by Scott30101 on 2009-07-21
I'm having the same problem, Legace, here are the contents when I enter that code in the terminal:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	2048 768
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-07-24
What res do you want to have?

---

