---
title: "10.04: Workspaces disappeared..."
date: 2010-06-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-06-13
A few sessions ago, I had a total of 4 workspaces going, apps open in each, and three workspaces disappeared. Now when I log on, only the desktop appears; there are no icons for other workspaces showing on bottom panel far-right.

I checked Help, found topic "To Set the Number of Workspaces", and tried their suggested terminal entry to set mandatory number of workspaces = 4:

tyler9@tyler9-desktop:~$ gconftool-2 --direct \
>   --config-source xml:readwrite:/etc/gconf/gconf.xml.mandatory \
>   --type int \
>   --set /apps/metacity/general/num_workspaces 4

I got this output:
(gconftool-2:3233): GConf-WARNING **: None of the resolved addresses are writable; saving configuration settings will not be possible
Error setting value: Unable to store a value at key '/apps/metacity/general/num_workspaces', as the configuration server has no writable databases. There are some common causes of this problem: 1) your configuration path file /etc/gconf/2/path doesn't contain any databases or wasn't found 2) somehow we mistakenly created two gconfd processes 3) your operating system is misconfigured so NFS file locking doesn't work in your home directory or 4) your NFS client machine crashed and didn't properly notify the server on reboot that file locks should be dropped. If you have two gconfd processes (or had two at the time the second was launched), logging out, killing all copies of gconfd, and logging back in may help. If you have stale locks, remove ~/.gconf*/*lock. Perhaps the problem is that you attempted to use GConf from two machines at once, and ORBit still has its default configuration that prevents remote CORBA connections - put "ORBIIOPIPv4=1" in /etc/orbitrc. As always, check the user.* syslog for details on problems gconfd encountered. There can only be one gconfd per home directory, and it must own a lockfile in ~/.gconfd and also lockfiles in individual storage locations such as ~/.gconf

Did I mess up the syntax of the terminal commands? 

As a new user, I don't have the discernment to interpret the above to determine correct action. And I don't want to start removing or killing things without checking first! 

Suggestions? Thank you.

---

### Post by soro2005 on 2010-06-14
1. Do yourself a favor and use the graphical gconf-editor instead of gconftool-2. Some things are just easier if you can see them before your eyes if you know what I mean. To open gconf-editor, simultaneously press <alt> and <f2>, then enter gconf-editor into the run dialog. Find the key num_workspaces by navigating to /apps/metacity/general/ and change its value.
2. You may be using Visual Effects, in which case the key above probably won't change a thing (b/c you are using Compiz instead of Metacity). Make sure you have compizconfig-settings-manager installed and open CompizConfig Settings Manager. In General Options --> Desktop Size, you can define the number of workspaces you want to use.

---

### Post by fooman on 2010-06-14
have you tried right-clicking the panel > add to panel

scroll through the list to "workspace switcher",  click once on it,  then click the "add" button.

---

### Post by tyler9 on 2010-06-14
[LEFT]soro2005 and fooman, thanks for info. Exploring your suggestions solved the problem and educated me in the process! Excellent way to learn.
[/LEFT]

---

