---
title: "10.04 installer freezing at resizing partition"
date: 2010-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by spankermonkey on 2010-05-21
Hello, I am not new to linux I have used many various distros but have not tried the recenter Ubuntu distros. So I decided that I would try out "Lucid Lynx", but I am having issues to install it. When I get the the partitioning part I want to install it side by side with Windows Vista, but it just hangs at "Resizing Partition 0%..." I've let it go for about an hour now and it's still at 0. All my system specs meet the requirments for ubuntu, so I am at a loss to see why this is happening, can someone please enlighten me and give me a solution?

---

### Post by labinnsw on 2010-05-22
Try to do the installation in 2 separate stages rather than a single stage with different steps.

_First resize the partition_
1.    Boot into Ubuntu live session
2.    Go to System >> Administration >> Gparted
3.    Resize the partition.

_Then Install Ubuntu_
1.    Double click the install icon on the Desktop
2.    Follow the prompts to complete the process.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-05-23
> **spankermonkey said:**
> When I get the the partitioning part I want to install it side by side with Windows Vista...

If you let it do that, it will probably corrupt your Vista OS partition and you will not be able to reboot into Vista.

A better approach is to use the Vista Disk Management utility to shrink its partition to make room for Ubuntu.  Then, boot back into Vista to allow it to adjust the filesystem parameters after you've done the shrinkage.

---

