---
title: "Problem with mount point for ext3 partition"
date: 2007-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-17
I have an ext3 partition (sda6), /storage, that is mounted via /etc/fstab to /mnt/storage.

But the only things in that folder are lost+found and recycled.

I can view and work with the contents via /media/sda6, but why does this not show up in the mountpoint?

Many thanks!

-merlin

---

### Post by pmg on 2007-07-18
Is it possible you have something else mounting over /storage, or the mount you think it did failed?  It might help to post your /etc/fstab and the output of the **df** command.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
```

[FONT=Verdana, Arial, Helvetica][/FONT] df
Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda8             17370216   4695924  11968400  29% /
varrun                  777968       216    777752   1% /var/run
varlock                 777968         0    777968   0% /var/lock
procbususb              777968       120    777848   1% /proc/bus/usb
udev                    777968       120    777848   1% /dev
devshm                  777968         0    777968   0% /dev/shm
lrm                     777968     33788    744180   5% /lib/modules/2.6.20-16-generic/volatile
/dev/sda7             10135768    538416   9082472   6% /home
/dev/disk/by-uuid/1EB88F62B88F36F5
                      21414612   5135808  16278804  24% /media/sda1
/dev/disk/by-uuid/18082DAD082D8B38
                        867478     81724    785755  10% /media/sda5
/dev/sda6              6744132    146292   6255256   3% /mnt/storage

```

> 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=a961b624-ed15-4878-b66f-bb2d007b74a4 /home ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=74ea0d79-f0a5-4381-a98d-08258758e696 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=1EB88F62B88F36F5 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=18082DAD082D8B38 /media/sda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=d24818f9-d857-47bd-b851-4d75d0c54252 /mnt/storage ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda9 :
UUID=68313a8e-5d21-43d6-b759-099c3f6de0f0 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0


-merlin

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-18
A newly created file system would have only lost+found.

What type of file system do you believe was on /dev/sda6 ?

Did you do a newfs ?

MrC

---

### Post by pbaumgar on 2007-07-18
The mount point for /dev/sda6 is not /storage it is /mnt/storage.  You need to create /storage and edit your fstab to point to it.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
> **Mr. C. said:**
> A newly created file system would have only lost+found.

What type of file system do you believe was on /dev/sda6 ?

Did you do a newfs ?

MrC

I created this partition when I installed ubuntu.  It was carved out out of a partition that was originally ntfs.

-merlin

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
> **pbaumgar said:**
> The mount point for /dev/sda6 is not /storage it is /mnt/storage.  You need to create /storage and edit your fstab to point to it.

Even so, /mnt/storage exists, and as as I said, only contains lost+found and Recycled.

The contents of the partition are listed at /media/sda6.

gparted shows /dev/sda6 mounted at /mnt/storage as well.

Perhaps I am not understanding something???

-merlin

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-07-18
> **merlinus said:**
> Even so, /mnt/storage exists, and as as I said, only contains lost+found and Recycled.

The contents of the partition are listed at /media/sda6.

Perhaps I am not understanding something???

-merlin
Hi Merlin,
   I know you've probably already checked this, but is the UUID for /dev/sda6 correct, as mounted in your /etc/fstab?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
> **confused57 said:**
> Hi Merlin,
   I know you've probably already checked this, but is the UUID for /dev/sda6 correct, as mounted in your /etc/fstab?

Yes.  I just checked again.

I suppose it really does not matter, since I can access and write to the contents of the partition via /media/sda6, but it sure seems strange!

-merlin

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-18
> **merlinus said:**
> I created this partition when I installed ubuntu.  It was carved out out of a partition that was originally ntfs.

-merlin

But the point is, did you have something in that file system ?  As I mentioned, new file systems start out with just lost+found.

I'm confused as to why you want/have the file system mounted in both /media and /mnt; you only need one mount.  Furthermore, your mount table does *not* show /dev/sda6 mounted twice - it is only mounted on /mnt/storage.  You can check this with:

```
df -h /media/sda6 /mnt/storage

```

But let's get back to your original question: 

> but why does this not show up in the mountpoint?

Perhaps you can explain what you are after here?  It does show up as mounted in /mnt/storage, just like you asked.  I've been presuming you think files are missing from that file system.

MrC

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
```

df -h /media/sda6 /mnt/storage
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda8              17G  4.5G   12G  29% /
/dev/sda6             6.5G  143M  6.0G   3% /mnt/storage

```I do not want it mounted twice.  I am wondering why it is, and why the contents (files and folders) exist at /media/sda6 and NOT at /dev/mnt, since nothing in /etc/fstab points to that.

Perhaps I should simply unmount the partition, create a new mountpoint, and edit /etc/fstab accordingly???

-merlin

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-18
It is not mounted twice.

I have no idea what you are talking about with "/dev/mnt"... a bad typo ?

Please re-read my previous post, at the end, which I update probably as you were replying.

MrC

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
Yes, it was a typo.  I meant /mnt/storage.

> 
Perhaps you can explain what you are after here? It does show up as mounted in /mnt/storage, just like you asked. I've been presuming you think files are missing from that file system.


There are no missing files.  All the data is intact, and accessible at /media/sda6.

I am very curious, though, as to why they are there, and not at /mnt/storage, as indicated in /etc/fstab and shown in gparted and the other commands such as df -h.

-merlin

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-18
Run the following two commands in a command shell and show the output:
```

ls -ld /mnt/storage
ls -l /mnt/storage
```

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
```

 ls -ld /mnt/storage
drwxr-xr-x 4 root root 4096 2007-07-06 12:50 /mnt/storage

```

```

ls -l /mnt/storage
total 20
drwx------ 2 root root 16384 2007-05-11 05:40 lost+found
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2007-07-06 12:36 Recycled

```

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-18
Something is not making sense at all to me.

Unmount the file system (make sure you are not in its directories, nor have any processes accessing, or else the unmount will fail):

```
umount /mnt/storage
umount /dev/sda6
umount /media/sda6

```
Run those commands twice ( to ensure the fs isn't double mounted) , and then run:

```
mount
ls -l /media
ls -l /mnt/storage

```

if /dev/sda6 does not show up, then run
```

fsck /dev/sda6
```

then you can remount:
```

mount /mnt/storage
ls -l /mnt/storage
```

MrC

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
> 
    Something is not making sense at all to me.
Tell me about it!

I ran all the commands (had to preface most of them with sudo). fsck came up clean.

```

         sudo fsck /dev/sda6
fsck 1.40-WIP (14-Nov-2006)
e2fsck 1.40-WIP (14-Nov-2006)
/dev/sda6: clean, 14/856480 files, 63462/1712922 blocks

```
Then after  sudo mount /mnt/storage:

```

 ls -l /mnt/storage
total 20
drwx------ 2 root root 16384 2007-05-11 05:40 lost+found
drwxr-xr-x 2 root root  4096 2007-07-06 12:36 Recycled

```Everything is exactly as before.  Files and folders in /media/sda6, lost+found and Recycled in /mnt/storage.

-merlin

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
Many thanks to all who offered suggestions.  Unfortunately, none of them worked.

So here is what I did.

I backed up the data in /media/sda6 to /home.  I then created a new mount point, /media/storage, and edited /etc/fstab to reflect this.

Upon re-booting, a similar thing occurred, in that /media/storage contained only lost+found and Recycled.  But /media/sda6 still contained all of the data.

I copied the data to /media/storage, deleted lost+found and Recycled, and deleted the two previous mount points, /media/sda6 and /mnt/storage.

I then changed the permissions of /media/storage so I have read and write access.

Re-booted again, and everything was fine.  The only strange thing is that Thunar shows 7G Volume in the tree of folders, and does not show storage

Nautilus, on the other hand, in Places/Computer shows storage, and nothing else out of the ordinary.  

I then symlinked /media/storage to /home.

BTW, the new mount point also appears in /etc/mtab.

All's well that ends well, yet I must admit that this is still quite a mystery....

But the unknown is exactly what makes life so exciting!

-merlin

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-18
Had to bail on you last night, sorry.

You should not delete lost+found.  This is the directory that is created my mkfs for use in placing lost files when there is a crash and fsck must deposit lost inodes somewhere.  This directory is create artificially large, so that fsck won't have to write much to the corrupted disk to salvage your files.

A simple mkdir is not likely to be sufficient.  You actually need to create the directory, populate it with hundreds or thousands of files, so that the directory itself grows large enough, and then delete the files.

Without that directory, a system crash causing corruption on that file system, it will be impossible for fsck to salvage any problematic files.

Run mklost+found

MrC

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-07-18
Thanks muchly for the info re: lost+found.  I learn something new at least once a day...

:)

Did as you suggested by changing directory to /media/storage and running the mklost+found command.  It is now there.

Should that directory exist in every mount point (e.g. /root and /home)?

-merlin

---

### Post by Mr. C. on 2007-07-18
> **merlinus said:**
> Should that directory exist in every mount point (e.g. /root and /home)?

In every ext2/3 file system.  A mount point is just a directory... where you happen to later mount some file system. 

MrC

---

