---
title: "14.04 UEFI can no longer boot to Windows"
date: 2015-08-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by apatters on 2015-08-15
Hi,

I recently had to do a new install of Ubuntu, and after this my Windows 8 partition became inaccessible. I ran boot-repair and this added a bunch of entries to my Grub menu on boot, but didn't fix the problem. One of the entries is Windows Boot Loader, which sounds like what I want, but choosing it results in the message:

```
/EndEntire
file path: /ACPI(a0341d0,0)/PCI(2,1f)/Sata(0,0,0)/A bunch of other junk
error: cannot load image.

Press any key to continue...

```

Choosing any of the other boot options except for Ubuntu results in a similar error.

Currently I have two drives -- sdb has a single partition with Ubuntu and is the drive I chose to install the boot loader to during Ubuntu setup. The Windows partition is on sda along with some others. Some of the other boot options seem to be popping up from old installs on other partitions which have since been erased.

Here's the BootInfo summary from boot-repair BEFORE I ran 'recommended repair': [http://paste.ubuntu.com/12073053/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/12073053/)
And after running it: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/12087390/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/12087390/)

Fortunately we can still get into Ubuntu just fine, but we need to get access to that Windows 8 partition on sda.

Any help appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by yancek on 2015-08-15
Do you have the machine set to boot from sdb, the second drive on which you installed Ubuntu?  You have the Grub boot code installed to its master boot record but you also have EFI files on sda (the first hard drive) for both windows and Ubuntu.  You could try setting the windows drive to first boot and make sure you have the UEFI option set in the BIOS.  If that doesn't work, you will need to wait for someone else to come along who is more familiar with UEFI.   Mixing MBR and UEFI installs almost always leads to boot problems.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-08-16
Your PC is the newer UEFI and you have Windows installed in UEFI boot mode.
But you have Ubuntu installed in CSM/BIOS boot mode on sdb.
UEFI & BIOS are not compatible, and you can only dual boot from UEFI boot mode. You may have to turn on/off UEFI mode or CSM/BIOS mode also. Some will auto switch and then you can use one time boot key like f10 or f12.

Better to install Ubuntu in UEFI mode on sdb. But you also have to change to gpt partitioning. You need to use the bit more advanced Something Else since you are installing to a second drive. Or you can disconnect the Windows drive and do on of the auto install options. You must have the 64 bit version and boot in UEFI mode to install in UEFI mode.

       Shows install with screen shots. Both BIOS purple accessibility screen & UEFI black grub menu screen
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UEFI)

            Any install with Something Else which is required with  external drives or any second drive or any install with separate /home
Also shows combo box with location of grub2 boot loader
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing)
Does not hightlight changing boot loader to sdb, if external drive, but shows other install screenshots:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/312782/how-to-install-ubuntu-on-separate-hard-drive-in-a-dual-boot](http://askubuntu.com/questions/312782/how-to-install-ubuntu-on-separate-hard-drive-in-a-dual-boot)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/274371/install-on-second-hard-drive-with-startup-boot-optiond](http://askubuntu.com/questions/274371/install-on-second-hard-drive-with-startup-boot-optiond)

    
With UEFI grub will just install into the ESP - efi system partition on sda, if sda is not disconnected. But that will not cause any issues with Windows.

       gpt(GUID)) partitioning
Required for UEFI with some systems, and for drives over 2.2GB.
You can also use gparted but must change default partitioning first.
Select gpt under device, advanced over msdos(MBR) default partitioning before starting.

            GPT Advantages (older but still valid) srs5694 post #2:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901)
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GPT](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GPT)

    
 It is recommended to use always GPT for UEFI boot as some UEFI firmwares do not allow UEFI-MBR boot.

   For the Total space you want for Ubuntu:
Ubuntu's standard install is just / (root) & swap, but it is better to add another partition for /home if allocating over 30GB.:
Only if gpt -  all partitions in gpt are primary:
gpt: 300 MB efi FAT32 w/boot flag (for UEFI boot or future use for UEFI, you only can have one per drive, so if already existing do not attempt another)
gpt: 1 or 2 MB No Format w/bios_grub flag (for BIOS boot not required for UEFI)
for gpt(GUID) or MBR(msdos) partitioning
Ubuntu partitions - smaller root only where hard drive space is limited.
If total space less than about 30GB just use / not separate /home or standard install.


[LIST=1]
[*]10-25 GB Mountpoint / primary or logical beginning ext4
[*]all but 2 GB Mountpoint /home logical beginning ext4
[*]2 GB Mountpoint swap logical
[/LIST]
    Depending on how much memory you have you may not absolutely need swap but having some is still recommended. I do not hibernate (boots fast enough for me) but if hibernating then you need swap equal to RAM in GiB not GB. And if dual booting with windows a shared NTFS partition is also recommended. But you usually cannot create that as part of the install, just leave some space. Or partition in advance (recommended).
One advantage of partitioning in advance is that the installer will use the swap space to speed up the install. Thanks Herman for the tip.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DiskSpace](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DiskSpace)

---

### Post by john443 on 2015-08-19
@apatters, did oldfred's response help you? I'm in a similar boat, I've tried to install to external and USB, all successful, but when I disconnect the external devices and reboot, I end p with grub window. I've believe I did the install correctly making sure to put the bootloader on the external drive/usb but same result. 

The only way I was able to get back normal, only win 8.1 no Ubuntu, was to reconnect the usb get the purple prompt from grub2, choose windows option, go into windows. Get an app called "easyBCD" and use it to delete ubuntu references on my main windows hard drive.

No this does not fix the original problem but it gets me back to square one, until I can figure out how to do this correctly. I can't disconnect my SSD because it is miniSSD hard to get to on my Toshiba x75-A7298 laptop.

---

### Post by john443 on 2015-08-19
@apatters, did oldfred's response help you? I'm in a similar boat, I've tried to install to external and USB, all successful, but when I disconnect the external devices and reboot, I end p with grub window. I've believe I did the install correctly making sure to put the bootloader on the external drive/usb but same result. 

The only way I was able to get back normal, only win 8.1 no Ubuntu, was to reconnect the usb get the purple prompt from grub2, choose windows option, go into windows. Get an app called "easyBCD" and use it to delete ubuntu references on my main windows hard drive.

No this does not fix the original problem but it gets me back to square one, until I can figure out how to do this correctly. I can't disconnect my SSD because it is miniSSD hard to get to on my Toshiba x75-A7298 laptop.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-08-19
If a removeable drive, UEFI only boots from /EFI/Boot/bootx64.efi. 

I had to copy /EFI/ubuntu to external flash drive's ESP - efi system partition with full install. Then copy shim into /EFI/Boot and rename to bootx64.efi. That version of shim seems to be hard coded to find the tiny grub.cfg in /EFI/ubuntu so you have to have both folders in the external device.

---

