---
title: "14.04 LTS freezes"
date: 2015-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dan Z on 2015-03-02
I am having a problem with 14.04 LTS locking up. Has been happening ever since I upgraded form last version month ago.

screen freezes, mouse cursor gone. 
Only way I know of  to recover is power down PC and restart.

Has happened while using GRISBI, LibreOffice calc and Chrome browser.

Have been using ALT+PRTSCR REISUB to reboot.

Where do I start to track down the issue?

Thanks Dan

---

### Post by Portaro on 2015-03-02
Probably is a graphic problem or system colapse.

What is your RAM? - command : free -mt
What is your graphic card? command: lspci

---

### Post by Dan Z on 2015-03-02
info requested:

$ free -mt
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3776       1979       1796         14        164       1082
-/+ buffers/cache:        733       3043
Swap:         3837          0       3837
Total:        7614       1979       5634

$ lspci
00:00.0 RAM memory: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] Memory Controller (rev a2)
00:01.0 ISA bridge: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] LPC Bridge (rev a2)
00:01.1 SMBus: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] SMBus (rev a1)
00:01.2 RAM memory: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] Memory Controller (rev a1)
00:01.3 Co-processor: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] Co-Processor (rev a2)
00:01.4 RAM memory: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] Memory Controller (rev a1)
00:02.0 USB controller: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] OHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev a1)
00:02.1 USB controller: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a1)
00:04.0 USB controller: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] OHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev a1)
00:04.1 USB controller: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a1)
00:06.0 IDE interface: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] IDE (rev a1)
00:07.0 Audio device: NVIDIA Corporation MCP72XE/MCP72P/MCP78U/MCP78S High Definition Audio (rev a1)
00:08.0 PCI bridge: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] PCI Bridge (rev a1)
00:09.0 SATA controller: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] AHCI Controller (rev a2)
00:0a.0 Ethernet controller: NVIDIA Corporation MCP77 Ethernet (rev a2)
00:0b.0 PCI bridge: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:10.0 PCI bridge: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:12.0 PCI bridge: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:13.0 PCI bridge: NVIDIA Corporation MCP78S [GeForce 8200] PCI Bridge (rev a1)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
02:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation C77 [GeForce 8200] (rev a2)
04:00.0 Communication controller: LSI Corporation Device 0630 (rev 01)
05:00.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6315 Series Firewire Controller

---

### Post by Portaro on 2015-03-04
I think your problem is with your graphic card - do you use default graphic configs provided by ubuntu or you install a official driver provided from Nvidia?, if you use a private drivers (by nvidia) I think that you need --purge and remove the packages and then update the system to install the default graphic support by Ubuntu community.

The reason of your freezing problem is your card.

---

### Post by Dan Z on 2015-03-04
Portaro-

Thanks for the reply. I think I am using default Ubuntu- how do I check for sure?

Thanks Dan

---

### Post by eezacque on 2015-03-05
Did you find anything useful in the log files?

---

### Post by spier on 2015-03-05
> **Dan Z said:**
> I am having a problem with 14.04 LTS locking up. Has been happening ever since I upgraded form last version month ago.

screen freezes, mouse cursor gone. 
Only way I know of  to recover is power down PC and restart.

Has happened while using GRISBI, LibreOffice calc and Chrome browser.

Have been using ALT+PRTSCR REISUB to reboot.

Where do I start to track down the issue?

Thanks Dan

Same simptons here after kernel upgrade days ago. 

Solved by adding a kernel parameter that changed the timestamping:
```
clocksource=hpet
```

Aparently this fixed some regression in kernel clock.
This is from Red Hat's [Documentation about Timestamping]("https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_MRG/2/html/Realtime_Reference_Guide/chap-Realtime_Reference_Guide-Timestamping.html"):> While TSC is generally the preferred clock source, it also has several shortcomings. For example, the TSC clock can stop when the system goes to an idle state, or become out of sync when their CPUs enter deeper C-states (energy saving states) and perform speed- or frequency-scaling operations. 

hth

---

### Post by Portaro on 2015-03-05
> **spier said:**
> Same simptons here after kernel upgrade days ago. 

Solved by adding a kernel parameter that changed the timestamping:
```
clocksource=hpet
```

Aparently this fixed some regression in kernel clock.
This is from Red Hat's [Documentation about Timestamping]("https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-US/Red_Hat_Enterprise_MRG/2/html/Realtime_Reference_Guide/chap-Realtime_Reference_Guide-Timestamping.html"):

hth

Interesting info , thanks for share.


Spier, if you use the default graphic support parameters, then the problem is the kernel that needs a patch to work correct on your / and with your Graphic card, sincerely I will describe a problem I also have in past with constant freezes in 12.04 , in my case I have the same problem that you have now, and I in my case the only thing I can do was try to generate my xorg, and configure manually, but I never have a good performance for example in games in video play etc, and in my case I use an ATI.
When I update my pcs for 14.04 this problems disappear, so the problems that I have in 12.04 come from Kernel + new libs of graphic support.

My suggestion for you is simple - maintain you last good performance kernel and use it , following your similar problems on this site and Linux forums, and give time to the maintainers of Kernel to apply new configs, and in future you can use new kernel with good results and without problems with your card.

Thiis problematic problems with graphic (cards) is constantly and occur because the industry dont give the code of the drivers and then in some cases kernel have little problems to adapt modules and functions on a Blobs software and driver.

Commands that you can use is - 
**glxgears** to see fps tax.

**Xorg conf  manually** ! you need to find info about config xorg manually of nvidia card ([https://wiki.debian.org/NvidiaGraphicsDrivers)]("https://wiki.debian.org/NvidiaGraphicsDrivers") & [http://www.x.org/wiki/NVIDIAProprietaryDriver/](http://www.x.org/wiki/NVIDIAProprietaryDriver/)-> (**I dont recommend to use this if you dont have good / medium skills with GNU/Linux**)

> sudo leafpad /myxorg.conf.new (edit your settings)

sudo service lightdm stop 

CTRL+ALT+F2 -> tty text


sudo mv /myxorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf

sudo service lightdm start


If works verify what is your performance (try a game, see an video) , if not ->

Generate a new xorg.conf file with new settings, and test.

If you have a problem with xorg and you cant have a graphic startx, dont panic simply delete the xorg file that you put on /etc/X11/xorg.conf and generae a new general file with commands ->

> sudo service lightdm stop

sudo X -configure 


sudo lightdm start

The logfiles of Xorg and others is placed on /var/log , to see this directory you can move to the path with sudo 

sudo pcmanfm /var/log (see inside) or list the files with **sudo ls /var/log** ;
target to see for example -> **sudo leafpad /var/log/xorg.0.log** ....

In my case and more than a year with freezes, I find that if I generate mi Xorg with some (old) settings that I see on web I have a better performance in graphics and videos work better or games (assaultcube for example), but when I download 14.04 I dont need to do this edition and I dont need to search on web hours and hours to see if exists a solution, is a problem with blobs (driver graphic cards) and the constant new kernel updates.

I think if you give - time to the time your problem disappear with new updates of new kernels.

Remember Blobs are enemies of GNU/Linux, and freedom! Be happy with GNU/Linux and Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Dan Z on 2015-03-08
ok 

tried  

clocksource=hpet

no problems since, but time will tell!

Thanks Dan

---

