---
title: "8.04 Crashing - please help"
date: 2008-07-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by migszo on 2008-07-09
Hello,

To give you a brief summary I switched from Vista to Ubuntu 8.04 after Vista began crashing frequently.  It started during streaming video in Vista (on youtube).  While viewing videos the system would hard crash (sound would freeze as well) and completely locked up.  It then became worse, and even now I can barely boot into Vista without it locking up.  Anyway, installed Ubuntu and everything was working fine but I still hard crash (not nearly as often) when viewing youtube videos.  I suspected it was my memory but ran memtest86 overnight (8 passes) and received no errors.  I've also updated my motherboard's firmware within the last week.
Any suggestions?

system specs:
Athlon 64 X2 6000+
Asus M2N32-SLI Premium Vista Edition motherboard
2 Gigs Corsair RAM 
320gig SATA HD
Geforce 7900 GS

Thanks,
-Mike

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2008-07-09
When did you install 8.04?

Did the crashing start immediately after installation?

If it did, it would be worth entering a bug in Ubuntu Launchpad and attaching your
 /var/log/installer/syslog file and /var/log/dpkg.log

Yesterday, I performed an 8.04.1 update. It was a very pleasant experience, mirroring the Ubuntu (6.10 full install), which was the first Ubuntu I ever installed.

If you updated prior to July 3, 2008, it might be worth either upgrading to this or performing a fresh install.

The links I used to download the CD, verify the iso image, and then install it were excellent. Here is the starter link:

[http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading#head-8ee23c592a6b8e8b7d40a5b363cf5fbc7ed3178a](http://www.ubuntu.com/getubuntu/upgrading#head-8ee23c592a6b8e8b7d40a5b363cf5fbc7ed3178a)

---

### Post by Mighty_Joe on 2008-07-09
> **migszo said:**
> I switched from Vista to Ubuntu 8.04 after Vista began crashing frequently. 

That really sounds like a hardware problem.  
More than a few people have had problems with [hardy freezing]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=765510"), but it's odd that it is both so specific (youtube videos) and happens on two OS's.
If you want to rule out the Hardy freeze I've been seeing, try the [Fedora 9 Live CD]("http://fedoraproject.org/en/get-fedora").  If it's more stable than Hardy, you may be seeing the same thing.

---

### Post by migszo on 2008-07-09
CMNorton, thanks for the input.. but I am leaning towards Mighty Joe on this one.. It seems more like a hardware issue to me but I am confused on exactly what is malfunctioning.
It seemed so obvious to me that this would be a memory issue but memtest just isn't giving me any errors.  Is there any other components that could be causing this? (maybe even a conflict of some sort?)

Thanks.

---

### Post by orrorin on 2008-07-09
What kind of sound cards do you have in the system? Try with disabling the card.

---

### Post by nowshining on 2008-07-09
to shut ur computer down safetly when it freezes in hardy that's very bad where even an ctrl+alt+backspace won't work, do the following:

alt+print screen+o

or ctrl+alt+print screen+0

i forgot exactly which. :) - however I believe it's the 1st one.

---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-07-15
Do a search on top for freezing and you'll see how many people are having problems with ubuntu 8.04 or 8.04.1 and freezing.
Mythbuntu 8.04 would freeze where clt+alt+backspace would not respond.  Then just today a friend was trying ubuntu 8.04.1 and his system completely locked up and couldn't do anything about it.

I think the ubuntu developers are aware of it, if not they can just search this for with probably over a thousand posts where there's freezing problems.

For mythbuntu 8.04 it would crash during compiling and for my friend I was with him when he was just navigating the menus and it locked up.  Since it was his first time using Linux................he said I thought Linux was more stable and he wiped it back out and put windows on it.

I hope they figure out what the problem is.  Read the boards you'll see some say it's drivers, but I have an ndivia and here it was an ati........others say kernel.  I tried without updating the kernel and I've still experienced the issue.

It's really shocking how many people are posting about freezing/crashing for ubuntu 8.04 and it's a LTS......

---

### Post by nowshining on 2008-07-15
the ubuntu developers won't fix the freezing problems in hardy, they will just put it off for interpid or whatever..

---

### Post by bone2006 on 2008-07-15
I tried to grab a copy of 8.04 alpha 2 of mythbuntu and they only have the alternative CD................the installer is broken for me.

I would go back to version 7.10, but can't seem to find it since it's on on their webiste and other sites I've been looking

looking for mythbuntu 7.10 64bit edition

---

### Post by nowshining on 2008-07-15
> **bone2006 said:**
> I tried to grab a copy of 8.04 alpha 2 of mythbuntu and they only have the alternative CD................the installer is broken for me.

I would go back to version 7.10, but can't seem to find it since it's on on their webiste and other sites I've been looking

looking for mythbuntu 7.10 64bit edition

[http://osuosl.cdimages.mythbuntu.org/](http://osuosl.cdimages.mythbuntu.org/)

---

