---
title: "192.168.1.1"
date: 2010-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-17
i use beetel 450 tc1 modem..im able to use the internet..but i cannot configure it for wifi..
i use bsnl..

Here are 2 problems i am facing.
when i changed VPI/VCI settings to 0 and 35 resp, and fill all other details,
and hit save button, an error message came as 'not able to save because of duplicate settings of VPI/VCI'

And now even 192.168.1.1 is not opening..

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2010-11-17
From my own computer 192.168.1.1 is the gateway address and 192.168.0.1 is the DNS address.  Sorry, can't help with VPI/VCI settings, I don't use them.

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-17
please help somebody..

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2010-11-17
Try this:  [http://www.dslreports.com/faq/1149](http://www.dslreports.com/faq/1149)

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-17
for now my primary concern is opening up 192.168.1.1..

because il only be able to configure it if it opens up..

if it doesnt open up..den vpi are vci values are of no use

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2010-11-17
> **kanishkdudeja said:**
> for now my primary concern is opening up 192.168.1.1..

because il only be able to configure it if it opens up..

if it doesnt open up..den vpi are vci values are of no use
Did you try 192.168.0.1?

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-17
yes i did..even that doesnt open up..

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-11-17
Post the output of **ifconfig**

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-11-17
> **kanishkdudeja said:**
> yes i did..even that doesnt open up..

What does this show.

```
route -n
```

[http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-find-gateway-ip-address/](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/how-to-find-gateway-ip-address/)

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-11-17
hard reset the modem, there should be a button the back to do so. Default settings will then return.

---

### Post by gandaran on 2010-11-17
> **kanishkdudeja said:**
> for now my primary concern is opening up 192.168.1.1..

because il only be able to configure it if it opens up..

if it doesnt open up..den vpi are vci values are of no use
doesn't the router have a reset button? if you reset the router to the original factory settings then you can access the router configuration page and start again.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-11-17
Such machines typically come preconfigured to use either 192.168.0.1 or 192.168.1.1 as their default IP addresses.

Whichever is the case, to get to it, you most probably has to be on the same subnet. In other words, if the machine is 192.168.1.1, your IP address (presuming you're using a browser to access the machine) would need to be 192.168.1.nnn.

One way to test this is to disconnect this other machine from the internet, configure your PC with a static IP address (say 192.168.1.101) and then see if you can reach 192.168.1.1.

---

### Post by nunrgguy on 2010-11-17
Usually for a home router the gateway address will also be the ip address for configuration.
192.168.1.254 is also a common one

nslookup localhost 

will give you the ip address for the router

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-11-17
If your system ipaddress is set to 192.168.1.1, then typing 192.168.1.1 in your  browser wont work.It wont take you to the configuration page.Because router ip address and system address should be different.So be sure that your system ip is not set to 192.168.1.1

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-11-18
> **98cwitr said:**
> hard reset the modem, there should be a button the back to do so. Default settings will then return.
+1
To configure the connection try 
[http://www.calcutta.bsnl.co.in/dataoneinstall/menu.html](http://www.calcutta.bsnl.co.in/dataoneinstall/menu.html)
I think your modem is similar to WA3002G1.So click on that
Note :The username and password for modem maybe different
You may also try post#7 [here]("http://www.indiabroadband.net/bsnl-broadband/24702-how-can-i-configure-beetel-450-tc1-adsl2-router2-bsnl-internet-connection.html")

---

### Post by amalnath on 2010-11-19
Try 192.168.1.2
U should be able to get into the router configuration page. Else hard reset the router

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-20
ive tried resetting the modem but to no avail..

im attaching the screenshots of route- -n and ifconfig..

---

### Post by gandaran on 2010-11-20
> **kanishkdudeja said:**
> ive tried resetting the modem but to no avail..

im attaching the screenshots of route- -n and ifconfig..
did you try pressing the reset button for ten seconds?
the gateway ip should give you the access to the router.
[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]59.96.160.1[/COLOR]

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-20
yeah i pressed the reset button for 15 seconds..

and even 59.96.160.1 doesnt open it up

---

### Post by gandaran on 2010-11-20
> **kanishkdudeja said:**
> yeah i pressed the reset button for 15 seconds..

and even 59.96.160.1 doesnt open it up
one question, you had access to your modem router configuration before?
well, you mite look at the prospect the modem is broken, try another one.

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-11-20
> **kanishkdudeja said:**
> yeah i pressed the reset button for 15 seconds..

and even 59.96.160.1 doesnt open it up


Post your output of **ifconfig**.

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-11-20
kanishkdudeja
The screenshot says You are connected to the internet .How did you connect? Using DSL tab in network manager or pppoeconf command?
To get modem page,
If you are using Network manager  click on  the  NM icon and disconnect DSL first.Then connect eth0 and try 192.168.1.1.If modem menu is not available ,post the result of ifconfig

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-20
yeah i had access to it before..

looks like the modem is gone..

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-20
@karthik87...

ive posted it..check in the previous post

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-20
@dineshs..

yes i use using dsl in network manager..

however i do not find any etho connection..

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-11-21
Edit interfaces file and set static ip like the one you see below
```

sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```> auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet static
mtu 1500
address 192.168.1.10
netmask 255.255.255.0
broadcast 192.168.1.255Also disable [**IP version 6**]("http://www.ubuntugeek.com/how-to-disable-ipv6-in-ubuntu.html").

---

### Post by lisati on 2010-11-21
> **kanishkdudeja said:**
> yeah i pressed the reset button for 15 seconds..

and even 59.96.160.1 doesnt open it up
That looks like a public IP address.
> **kanishkdudeja said:**
> @karthik87...

ive posted it..check in the previous post
Do you mean the one in the picture? 

It might be easier for us if you copy and past the text instead of taking a screenshot for output like this.

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-21
@kathick87..

now its not even showing dsl in the network icon..

its showing "device not managed" in wired networks..

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-21
@lisati..

yeah sorry..

kanishk@Inspiron-1525:~$ ifconfig
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:21:9b:d1:4a:ab  
          inet6 addr: fe80::221:9bff:fed1:4aab/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:875 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:830 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:825772 (825.7 KB)  TX bytes:164256 (164.2 KB)
          Interrupt:16 

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:1f:e1:ce:37:65  
          inet6 addr: fe80::21f:e1ff:fece:3765/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:17 Base address:0xc000 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:96 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:96 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:6888 (6.8 KB)  TX bytes:6888 (6.8 KB)

ppp0      Link encap:Point-to-Point Protocol  
          inet addr:59.94.102.3  P-t-P:59.94.102.1   Mask:255.255.255.255
          UP POINTOPOINT RUNNING NOARP MULTICAST  MTU:1492  Metric:1
          RX packets:7 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:8 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:3 
          RX bytes:798 (798.0 B)  TX bytes:679 (679.0 B)

---

### Post by karthick87 on 2010-11-21
Can you try configuring your connection through pppoeconf

On the console or in your terminal session type: 

```
sudo pppoeconf
```A text-based menu program will guide you through the next steps, which are,

[LIST=1]
[*]Confirm that your Ethernet card is detected.
[*]Enter your username(provided by your ISP).
[*]Enter your password(provided by your ISP).
[*]If you already have a PPPoE Connection configured, you will be asked if it may be modified.
[*]Popular options: you are asked if you want the 'noauth' and 'defaultroute' options and to remove 'nodetach' - choose "Yes".
[*]Use peer DNS - choose "Yes".
[*]Limited MSS problem - choose "Yes".
[*]When  you are asked if you want to connect at start up, you will probably  want to say yes. (This option does not work) See the secton "Connecting  on Boot"
[*]Finally you are asked if you want to establish the connection immediately.
[/LIST]
Once you have finished these steps, your connection should be working. 

To start your ADSL connection manually..

```
pon dsl-provider
```To stop your ADSL connection..

```
poff
```

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-21
i need to configure it for wireless..otherwise there would be problem as i can connect to using dsl..

---

### Post by dineshs on 2010-11-21
> @kathick87..
now its not even showing dsl in the network icon..
its showing "device not managed" in wired networks..
It will not since it has nothing to manage .
Please note that the devices defined in /etc/network/interfaces will not be managed by NM.Do not edit that file if you want to use NM.So run```
sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```
edit the file so that it contains only```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

```
Restart machine.Your icon will be back
Right click the icon-edit connections
See if eth0 is there under wired tab.If not click add and create one
Now follow what is given in post#22 (ie disconnect DSL by clicking NM icon,connect wired)and see whether you are getting modem page ie 192.168.1.1.
If not, run```
sudo dhclient eth0
```and post the results

---

### Post by kanishkdudeja on 2010-11-25
thanks..it has worked..when i created a new connection eth0 in the wired tab..and then disconnected dsl..and then connected eth0..

it worked

---

