---
title: "9.04  Memory amount different in Windows and Ubuntu"
date: 2009-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-06-02
When I bought my computer I ordered it with 4 GB of memory.
I have dual O.S., Windows XP Pro (ntfs) and Ubuntu 9.04. (ext4)
Windows shows I have 4 Gb memory.
Ubuntu says I have 3 GB of memory.
Is there a logical explanation for this? I would like to be a bit smarter in case I must journey back to the shop.

---

### Post by XCan on 2009-06-02
> **thelugnut said:**
> When I bought my computer I ordered it with 4 GB of memory.
I have dual O.S., Windows XP Pro (ntfs) and Ubuntu 9.04. (ext4)
Windows shows I have 4 Gb memory.
Ubuntu says I have 3 GB of memory.
Is there a logical explanation for this? I would like to be a bit smarter in case I must journey back to the shop.

Is your Windows XP 64 bit and Ubuntu install 32 bit? It definitely sounds like you're hitting the 2^32 limit of your Ubuntu install, so what you see is actually 4 GB - (address space occupied by your devices).

---

### Post by JCoster on 2009-06-02
Basically, you need to uninstall the current version of Ubuntu you have and install the AMD64 version for you to be able to see/utilise the extra memory.

It's to do with the number of addresses which can be accessed with only 32-bits (2^32), whilst with 64-bits (2^64) addresses can be accessed and so more data can be stored in memory.  (Technically it's also to do with the width of buses within your system, but if Vista can utilise 4gb then your system is 64-bit compatible.)

As it is the OS which manages memory, if the OS is only set to see (2^32) rows of memory, then that is the maximum it can see.  This is why a 64-bit OS will allow you to see up to something like 16 exabytes.

It may be worth adding that you should only use a 64-bit system if you have a specific reason to (such as if you actually **need** the extra 0.8GB of RAM or so it will actually give you), as otherwise there may be a - slightly - notable decrease in performance due to larger pointer sizes within memory, requiring longer transfer times to send around different parts of your computer.

Hope this helps.

EDIT: Also, if your computer was supplied with 32-bit Ubuntu then there may be a reason for that, such as a problem with hardware drivers under 64-bit Ubuntu.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-06-03
Thank you, JCoster and XCan. I really appreciate the replies.:)

---

