---
title: "Help with edit grub.cfg (grub 1.97~beta4)"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by redcodefinal on 2009-11-16
So i recently tried installed Ubuntu 9.10 hoping i could dual boot with windows 7.  My last post had t do with fixing it. I have it sort of fixed but, when I try to boot to my win 7 I get a error:invalid signature. I figured out this is because the only boot option is chainloader +1

I need to edit grub.cfg manually to add in the boot options or else I have to manually type them in every time I want to boot to windows 7. I noticed I have to have permissions from root. how do I login as root to fix my issue...

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-11-16
You don't login as root.

1. ALT+F2

2. gksudo gedit <path/to/filename.ext>

---

### Post by redcodefinal on 2009-11-17
it keeps sending me to home/(username)/boot/grub/ for some reason... Sorry I am a bit of a ubuntu noob.

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-11-17
> **redcodefinal said:**
> it keeps sending me to home/(username)/boot/grub/ for some reason... Sorry I am a bit of a ubuntu noob.

put a / before boot/grub

so it should read

gksudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg

---

### Post by redcodefinal on 2009-11-17
Still won't let me save... Says it is read-only

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-11-17
> **redcodefinal said:**
> Still won't let me save... Says it is read-only

Then you're SOL if gk/sudo can't do it, we don't give instructions on how to login as root, it's against forum policy.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2009-11-17
If you have installed new grub you do not edit grub.cfg. There are several files that get copied into grub.cfg on every update or your when you make a change you run the update.

All you should have to do to find windows is:
sudo update-grub

This runs the osprober that finds other operating system and updates and changes you make to 

gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub

Which is a new file that is like the comment area in old menu.lst.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

The Grub 2 Guide (formerly Grub 2 Basics)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html]("http://members.iinet.net/%7Eherman546/p20.html")

If prober does not put a correct entry in you can copy your entry to 40_custom, edit it there and then run the update. You can turn off the osprober to prevent duplicate entry in /etc/default/grub with this entry:

GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER="true"

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-11-17
> **oldfred said:**
> If you have installed new grub you do not edit grub.cfg. There are several files that get copied into grub.cfg on every update or your when you make a change you run the update.

All you should have to do to find windows is:
sudo update-grub

This runs the osprober that finds other operating system and updates and changes you make to 

gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub

Which is a new file that is like the comment area in old menu.lst.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

The Grub 2 Guide (formerly Grub 2 Basics)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html)

Just wondering then: Why the hell does google/etc. give instructions on editing the grub.cfg and not what you did? It's very frustrating.

---

### Post by redcodefinal on 2009-11-17
OSprober doesn't add the right parameters for windows 7... It only adds chainloader +1. I know this will solve it. I can add them directly when I boot through GRUB but they won't save. So far I am guessing this is the only way to fix this.

---

### Post by redcodefinal on 2009-11-17
I get this every time I try to save

You are trying to save the file on a read-only disk. Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again.

---

### Post by coldReactive on 2009-11-17
> **redcodefinal said:**
> I get this every time I try to save

You are trying to save the file on a read-only disk. Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again.

Are you doing what oldfred is telling you to do?

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-17
> **redcodefinal said:**
> I get this every time I try to save

You are trying to save the file on a read-only disk. Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again.
If you would check the permissions you would see that it is read only for ROOT.

If you would read the text itself you would see "Do not edit this file".  Literacy is a good thing.

That file is over written EVERY TIME update-grub is run.

The best thing for you to do is to run;
```

sudo update-grub

```
This will pick up your Win JerryLewis Pro 98% of the time.

The links given earlier are excellent.  Read them before going off half cocked again and really screwing something up.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2009-11-17
I assumed you could copy your windows entry. Note that grub.cfg has a different style and partitions now start at 1 not 0 like old grub.

Typical entry other examples are in links I provided before, but you still should copy your current entry and adjust. I highlighted in red the main additions/changes to what would be an old menu.lst entry.

[FONT=Bitstream Vera Sans Mono]menuentry "Chainload Windows 7" [COLOR=Red]{[/COLOR]
    [COLOR=Red]set [/COLOR]root[COLOR=Red]=[/COLOR](hd0,[COLOR=Red]1[/COLOR])
    chainloader +1    
[COLOR=Red]}[/COLOR][/FONT][FONT=Bitstream Vera Sans Mono]
[/FONT]

---

### Post by andr983 on 2009-11-24
I think you should change the access rights.
And what if I have to change the timeout? Am I still allowed to do it directly in the grub.cfg file? Or do I lose this configuration after each grub update?

---

### Post by Yan_ on 2009-11-24
to make the file editable: "sudo chmod +w grub.cfg"

but as someone mentioned, you shouldn't edit this file if you don't have to because every time you'll do "update-grub" it will erase your update.

---

### Post by Megrimn on 2009-11-30
So what if someone, like myself, just had a kernel update and he wants to get rid of the extra line for the previous kernel to keep the boot menu nice and neat?  

(In all honesty, I just booted into the recovery console and used nano to delete the unwanted lines.)

Another thing I'd like to know, for the sake of intelligent conversation, why we are being warned not to edit the file, when some of us desperately need to edit it; not just to clean things up, but to make things work properly?

---

### Post by Digikid on 2009-11-30
I too am getting this.  Quite annoying but perfectly understandable.  It is just trying to save us from ourselves.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-11-30
> **Megrimn said:**
> So what if someone, like myself, just had a kernel update and he wants to get rid of the extra line for the previous kernel to keep the boot menu nice and neat?

 Use Synaptic (or aptitude or apt-get) to uninstall the unwanted kernel, and it will automatically update grub.cfg.

---

### Post by Megrimn on 2009-12-01
> **oldos2er said:**
> Use Synaptic (or aptitude or apt-get) to uninstall the unwanted kernel, and it will automatically update grub.cfg.

huh, didn't know you could do that.  In all honesty, I thought the previous kernel was replaced by the new one.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-12-01
Kernel updates never overwrite old kernels, as a safety precaution.

Edit: I should've said kernel upgrades, as opposed to updates. Newer kernel versions do not replace older ones.

---

### Post by bmujeeb on 2009-12-01
GRUB 2 may be far advance than its predecessor but the fact is GRUB 2 has made things more complex rather than simplifying it. 
I am an advance Linux user but GRUB 2 is a suicidal attempt by Ubuntu. 

Bilal

---

### Post by mtate5000 on 2009-12-01
try in terminal: "gksu nautilus", enter your password then you can navigate the system graphically. the window that opens should look like this (then you can click on filesystem and navigate from there). if gksu is not installed on your box, you can find it in synaptic.

---

### Post by mbugno on 2009-12-05
Synaptic updated to new kernel. 31-16, I ran everything I could to try to get the new grub2 .cfg to recognize. Wasted a Saturday morning. grub-mkconfig was fine. saved the output named and grub.cfg shut down and booted with live cd and dragged the new cfg into boot/grub/ (after running dolphin as root ( kde ). and finally I was able to access the new kernel. Too much work.

---

### Post by richhein on 2009-12-12
I'm pretty much of a n00b, but I've put Ubuntu 9.10 onto a number of computers, some of which boot perfectly and an number of which (mostly Dell laptops) hit the wall looking for a non-existent floppy drive.
 
I think maybe the problem was created because the BIOS was initially set to look for a floppy as first boot device.
 
Anyway, an easy way to (temporarily) fix the grub.cfg file to allow the computer to boot until the next major update of Grub (which makes it revert to the error state) is to do the following. Go into a terminal session (Applications|Accessories|Terminal):
 
[COLOR=seagreen]1) Make the grub.cfg file editable: sudo chmod +w /boot/grub/grub.cfg[/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=seagreen]2) Edit it (more on that later): sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg[/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=seagreen]3) After saving, make it again read only: sudo chmod -w /boot/grub/grub.cfg[/COLOR]
 
I did a search using GEdit in the grub.cfg file for "floppy" and found four instances. 
 
I removed everything in all of the lines with "floppy" in them, being careful not to touch anything else, saved the file and then made it again read only. The computer now boots successfully.
 
It will lose those changes when there is a major update, but I've written these instructions into my contacts so it will be a trivial fix again.

---

### Post by dgilbert on 2009-12-18
> **oldfred said:**
> If you have installed new grub you do not edit grub.cfg. There are several files that get copied into grub.cfg on every update or your when you make a change you run the update.

All you should have to do to find windows is:
sudo update-grub

This runs the osprober that finds other operating system and updates and changes you make to 

gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub

Which is a new file that is like the comment area in old menu.lst.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

The Grub 2 Guide (formerly Grub 2 Basics)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html]("http://members.iinet.net/%7Eherman546/p20.html")

If prober does not put a correct entry in you can copy your entry to 40_custom, edit it there and then run the update. You can turn off the osprober to prevent duplicate entry in /etc/default/grub with this entry:

GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER="true"



Firstly folks should just get rid of all that "sudo ..." crap and switch a shell to root with "sudo -i" after adding an entry to /etc/sudoers for their user.

Not touching /etc/grub/grub.cfg is a pain. It renames and re-orders all my boot options and grub2 chooses a different order to legacy-grub. Grrr! On a thinkpad with Vista pre-installed, it  shows me the recovery partition before the live one, the only indication of a difference is the partition number. That is a step backwards. When I built my own kernel I don't want it top of the list (because its minor number is higher than the rest) and I don't want the word Ubuntu in the title. In short I want to control grub.cfg . update-grub should be smarter and push any new version of the a standard Ubuntu kernel directly above the next highest Ubuntu kernel and leave the rest of the file alone!

os-prober is a disgrace: no man page, no sensible response to the '--help' option. It should not be released in that state. So I like that GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER. But why doesn't it appear (commented out) in the standard /etc/default/grub file as documentation? Where is the documentation for the default options in the /etc/default directory?

What I will do is edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg to my preference, and keep a copy of the before and after. Whenever update-grub does its hack job, I'll diff it with my reference before copy to work out what it changed. Then apply that to my after version and make that live.

---

### Post by OldTimmer on 2010-01-14
I am new to Ubuntu but not new to linux I am no expert ether.
But I to would like to edit grubs order I want to have my Vista first and get rid of the old kernel info.
If Ubuntu is trying to save us from ourselves who do they think they are Windows.
Ubuntu so far is the easiest linux version to use but has a long way to go.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-01-14
> **OldTimmer said:**
> 
But I to would like to edit grubs order I want to have my Vista first and get rid of the old kernel info..

If you are looking for how to do this, the easiest is to copy the /boot/grub/grub.cfg menuentry for Windows, paste it into /etc/grub.d/40_custom, and then rename the file as 06_custom and then update-grub. All done as root. It will place Windows at the top of your list. It will also appear in it's normal location unless you play with the scripts (see G2 Tweaks in signature) or make 30_os-prober un-executable.

You get rid of old kernels by removing them with synaptic, which will also remove them from the menu.

---

### Post by OldTimmer on 2010-01-14
This Start up Manager did work to set the default startup.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StartUpManager](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/StartUpManager)

But the Startup Manager will not let you remove the old Kernel info.
Or change the order of how the menu looks.
I am not the only one that uses this computer and most of the other people in the house dont even know how to navigate Linux so I needed to have the default to Windows.

---

### Post by chrisgeller on 2010-01-29
Hi

I'm still a bit of a noob - I had installed Ubuntu before and was able to successfully edit grub.cfg. 

This doesn't seem to be possible any more with Grub 2 (which seems to be grub 1.97 beta 4?).

I've installed StartUpManager, and changed the default to Windows 7 - but that doesn't seem to achieve anything at all - the laptop still automatically to Ubuntu. Why is this? What else should I do?

Is Grub 1.97 really Grub 2? Am I even reading the right info?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-01-29
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2)

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

Startupmanager hasn't been fully updated to work with grub2 yet. Yes, grub2 is version 1.97b4 in a default Ubuntu 9.10 install. The name "grub2" is meant to distinguish the program from grub legacy.

---

### Post by masroorgilani on 2010-02-05
> **richhein said:**
> I'm pretty much of a n00b, but I've put Ubuntu 9.10 onto a number of computers, some of which boot perfectly and an number of which (mostly Dell laptops) hit the wall looking for a non-existent floppy drive.
 
I think maybe the problem was created because the BIOS was initially set to look for a floppy as first boot device.
 
Anyway, an easy way to (temporarily) fix the grub.cfg file to allow the computer to boot until the next major update of Grub (which makes it revert to the error state) is to do the following. Go into a terminal session (Applications|Accessories|Terminal):
 
[COLOR=seagreen]1) Make the grub.cfg file editable: sudo chmod +w /boot/grub/grub.cfg[/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=seagreen]2) Edit it (more on that later): sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg[/COLOR]
 
[COLOR=seagreen]3) After saving, make it again read only: sudo chmod -w /boot/grub/grub.cfg[/COLOR]
 
I did a search using GEdit in the grub.cfg file for "floppy" and found four instances. 
 
I removed everything in all of the lines with "floppy" in them, being careful not to touch anything else, saved the file and then made it again read only. The computer now boots successfully.
 
It will lose those changes when there is a major update, but I've written these instructions into my contacts so it will be a trivial fix again.

@richhein. Thank you very much. It worked for me. You really made my day, thanks once again for making my life easier, best regards

---

### Post by Norwal on 2010-05-02
I agree with OldTimer.  This whole think smells of MicroSoft arrogance. I starting using Ubuntu exclusively 2 years ago, once I was able to get the games I play up and running in Wine. I was very impressed with the ease of Ubuntu 8.04 and stayed with it through to 9.10 64 bit. I have enjoyed the challenge and the freedom very much.

Now that Window 7 is out, I thought I give it a try.  I upgraded hardware since my last XP install so I thought I start over with a fresh Win7 followed by 9.10.  My logic for this was Ubuntu's recognition of Windows vs Windows ignorance of Linux.  Boy was I supprised.

I have tried all of the "method" to dual boot on this string and nothing has worked.  Nice going UbuntuSoft. Now I have to decide which OS to go with and to be honest, Windows 7's superior 3D Driver installation and lack of tweeking to get games work may be the deciding factor. Perhaps I'll dig out an old 80Gb drive and return Ubuntu back to a hobby.

What were you really thinking and why have you not fixed it?

:confused:

---

### Post by jmsnyc on 2010-07-23
jeff@jeff-laptop:/boot/grub$ sudo update-grub
rm: cannot remove `/boot/grub/grub.cfg.new': Read-only file system

jeff@jeff-laptop:/boot/grub$ sudo chmod +w /boot/grub/grub.cfg
chmod: changing permissions of `/boot/grub/grub.cfg': Read-only file system



Why am I getting this error when trying to update grub?

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-07-23
it tells you that whole partition is mounted in readonly mode, you won't change permissions.
[http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1363768](http://ubuntu-virginia.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1363768)

---

### Post by Taylorslegler on 2011-03-24
to edit grub on its native partition if its installed already try this 

sudo nano -w /boot/grub/grub.cfg

if your in a live cd 

make a new directory and mount it 

mkdir /temp/

sudo mount -t [COLOR=Black]auto /dev/sda* /temp

then open in with 

sudo nano -w /temp/boot/grub/grub.cfg
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by BugsySAV on 2011-07-06
New to the forums but not  new linux/win several different coding languages. I will apologize in advance for grammar/punctuation mistakes I WILL make. Although I am not a big fan of GRUB2...it was the card I was delt so I had to learn how to play it. The way I overcame this problem was not really editing the grub.cfg, rather adding a shell script in the /etc/grub.d

first step:
in your gui navigate to /etc/grub.d and create a new text file (the name of this file should be XX_nameofyourchoice lower number of XX higher it will appear on your grub menu)
Second step:
define said text file as a shell script and enter your code. best way i have found to make it work right is boot using uuid. code as follows

```
#!/bin/sh -e
cat << EOF
menuentry "Windows 7" {
insmod fileformat
set root='(hda0,partloc)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set uuidofpartiontoboot
chainloader +1
}
EOF
```

with GRUB2 and how it counts, the number for partion location should be the sda number(for windows at least) eg dev/sda2 will most likely be (hda0,2)

to find fileformat, uuidofpartiontoboot, and partloc go to Konsole and type

```
sudo blkid
```

if you are intrested enough to edit your cfg file I dont think i need to explain how to interpret the information you will be viewing after this command

save your file.

Third step:
code as follows still in Konsole

change your directory to grub.d
```
cd /etc/grub.d
```

mod file to be executable or ran as program
```
chmod +x XX___nameofyourchoice
```

update your grub
```
update-grub
```

Last doublecheck your new shell
while still in /etc/grub.d type
```
ls -la
```
if this shell has been created properly and given proper permissions you should see it bold/highlighted.

reboot

give it a whirl

If this does not work for you I might suggest following the same process but copying the info you have to boot the certain partion in your grub.cfg file to the script if you know what line(s)you need to modify. Hope this helps all. Serious questions feel free to email.

---

### Post by elctro on 2012-10-31
> **coldReactive said:**
> You don't login as root.

1. ALT+F2

2. gksudo gedit <path/to/filename.ext>

Thanks man. I used to edit grub file so I can add "nomodeset" to run ubuntu on my Macbook Pro. And noobs it's like this:

```
sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-10-31
Thread closed. Now older.

Best never to directly edit grub.cfg. Editing should be in 
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub

And with graphical applications like gedit always use gksu or gksudo.

General info:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing)
[http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/](http://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
[http://www.webupd8.org/2012/09/grub-customizer-30-released.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2012/09/grub-customizer-30-released.html)

---

