---
title: "x11vnc + vnc-java + stunnel/SSL for secure remote desktop over the web (https)"
date: 2009-09-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-04
[SIZE=3]Hello Ubuntu Community!

I am looking for a remote desktop solution that is fast, encrypted, and can be securely viewed over the web. I am trying x11vnc with vnc-java. I also have XAMPP installed (apache w/ mod_ssl). I have the 2 good options to encrypt the connection when using java to view vnc in the browser over the web:

1. Using mod_ssl in apache + SSL certificarte generated by x11vnc. See: [http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssl-portal.html](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssl-portal.html) (Downloading the Java applet to the browser via HTTPS)

2. Using stunnel to force non-SSL aware daemons such as VNC to use SSL.

What do you recommend that I do? It would be great to have step-by-step instructions on how to accomplish this for a Linux n00b like myself. Also, which is faster x11vnc or tightvnc? Can x11vnc options be adjusted so that it has less time lag and possibly better quality?

Any advice/help would be greatly appreciated. Thanks.[/SIZE]

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-04
> **verto8 said:**
> I am trying x11vnc with vnc-java. I also have XAMPP installed (apache w/ mod_ssl). I have the 2 good options to encrypt the connection when using java to view vnc in the browser over the web:

1. Using mod_ssl in apache + SSL certificate generated by x11vnc. See: [http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssl-portal.html](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssl-portal.html) (Downloading the Java applet to the browser via HTTPS)

Note that this won't work with the vnc-java package (because the applet is not SSL aware.) But if you use the x11vnc java applet (from the x11vnc source or the new x11vnc 0.9.8 in sid) they are SSL aware.

However, the ssl-portal described at the above link is most certainly overkill (and can be difficult to set up.)  Do you really have multiple desktops inside your LAN that you want to access this way?  If you only have one desktop you want to access, just use ```
x11vnc -ssl SAVE -http...
``` the normal way with no apache. x11vnc with the '-http' option activates its built-in web server to serve the applet jar file.
>   
2. Using stunnel to force non-SSL aware daemons such as VNC to use SSL.
 Yes, that is another option.
> 
What do you recommend that I do? It would be great to have step-by-step instructions on how to accomplish this for a Linux n00b like myself. Also, which is faster x11vnc or tightvnc? 

Do you know that they export very different desktop sessions?  x11vnc exports the view on the physical hardware (monitor and video card) whereas tightvnc (vncserver) exports a virtual, RAM-only desktop.  Which do you want to do?  The latter is of course faster. (x11vnc has a special mode, -create option, that emulates a RAM-only desktop by using Xvfb, but it is still a bit slower than tightvnc/vncserver.)
> 
Can x11vnc options be adjusted so that it has less time lag and possibly better quality?

Since x11vnc polls from the video card and tightvnc is a virtual (RAM only) session, x11vnc tends to be slower. Reading from the video card is usually 100-1000X slower than writing to it, so it can be slow even on modern hardware (however, the nvidia proprietary drivers have a fairly fast read rate.)  Reading from RAM is usually much faster than reading from the video card.

At the cost of higher system load you can add "-defer 1 -wait 1", or other values, to try to get faster response from x11vnc.
[INDENT][http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-more-resource](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-more-resource)
[http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-slow-link](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-slow-link)[/INDENT]

Regarding image quality, if you use the ZRLE encoding (RealVNC viewer) it will be lossless.  Otherwise adjust the JPEG quality etc. in your tightvnc viewer.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-05
@krunge, thank you for the reply. I really do not care as far as the technical working of different remote desktop tools. I would like stable, fast, encryped/secure VNC with access through the web using a browser. In that case, do you recommend configuring x11vnc or just using TightVNC?

I would be great to find something that works with apache's mod_ssl or stunnel to encrypt the connection over the web (traffic through port 443 [https]) instead of using SSH to tunnel the data through to encrypt the connection (BTW, I do have OpenSSH installed if needed).

To keep it simple, it would be great to have VNC access using java applet over the web in a secure fashion. Any ideas would be greatly appreciated. Thanks :-)

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-05
Anyone?

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-05
> **verto8 said:**
> I really do not care as far as the technical working of different remote desktop tools.

Do you really not care if the X session being exported via VNC is the one showing on the physical hardware (monitor and video card) or a virtual one that lives only in RAM and can only be viewed remotely?  Most users do have a preference between the two; it depends on their intended usage (what's yours?)
> 
I would be great to find something that works with apache's mod_ssl or stunnel to encrypt the connection over the web (traffic through port 443 [https]) instead of using SSH to tunnel the data through to encrypt the connection (BTW, I do have OpenSSH installed if needed).

I believe it is basically impossible to use apache mod_ssl to tunnel an arbitrary TCP service.  This is because HTTP/HTTPS is a request-response protocol and not a full bi-directional socket.  The only way I have found to do these things with apache is to use mod_proxy and the AllowCONNECT directive. mod_proxy's CONNECT proxying is a bi-directional socket.
> To keep it simple, it would be great to have VNC access using java applet over the web in a secure fashion. Any ideas would be greatly appreciated.I can show you one way to do multi-user, virtual RAM-only desktops with x11vnc and its SSL enabled java applet. Put this line in /etc/inetd.conf:
```

443 stream  tcp nowait  root  /usr/sbin/tcpd /usr/local/bin/x11vnc -inetd -svc -o /var/tmp/x11vnc-443.log -http -prog /usr/local/bin/x11vnc -env PATH=/usr/bin:bin
```
and then restart inetd (note your inetd may be named 'inetd' or 'openbsd-inetd' or 'xinetd'; if xinetd you will need to add the command to /etc/xinetd.d instead.)

Now you have a VNC desktop service that is encrypted via SSL (for the java applet viewer any other SSL enabled viewers.)

The above assumes a number of things:

[INDENT]1) You have disabled apache mod_ssl so that port 443 is free.

2) You have disabled any firewalls blocking access to port 443.

3) If the machine is not directly connected to the internet you have configured your router to redirect port 443 on the router to port 443 on the machine running x11vnc/inetd.

4) You have installed the packages named 'openssl' and 'xvfb'.

5) You have built x11vnc yourself and had it install into /usr/local.  The reason for this is that debian (and hence ubuntu) does not ship the SSL enabled x11vnc Java viewer applet (this has actually changed in the past few weeks, but might not yet be available to your distro.)  We need the SSL enabled Java applet to  have an encrypted connection from the web browser.  See the next paragraph for how to relax this.
[/INDENT]

If you don't want to build x11vnc from the source (most people don't these days...) and hence naturally get the SSL enabled Java applet, here is a workaround. Install the debian/ubuntu 'x11vnc' package.  Also download the x11vnc source tarball and unpack it somewhere (no need to build it):
[INDENT][http://x11vnc.sourceforge.net/dev/x11vnc-0.9.9.tar.gz](http://x11vnc.sourceforge.net/dev/x11vnc-0.9.9.tar.gz)[/INDENT]
Then change the inetd line to look like this:
```

443 stream  tcp nowait  root  /usr/sbin/tcpd /usr/bin/x11vnc -inetd -svc -o /var/tmp/x11vnc-443.log -httpdir /path/to/your/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -prog /usr/bin/x11vnc -env PATH=/usr/bin:bin
```and restart inetd. Of course change /path/to/your/... to where you unpacked the x11vnc tarball.

In either case you should be able to type in this URL to a java enabled web browser:  [https://your-hostname](https://your-hostname)   or [https://your-IP-address](https://your-IP-address) and connect to x11vnc's login panel via SSL.  Then enter your unix username and password in the login panel.  You should get your own virtual X session this way.  You can reconnect to the same session as many times as you like until you log out of that desktop.

There are a number of variations on this.  E.g. perhaps you don't want multi-user desktops, or only want the physical display to be exported, etc. They can all be done, just ask what you want to do.

Regarding stunnel+tightvnc you can give that a shot too. Follow the stunnel instructions and examples.  However, I think it will be tricky to do SSL from a web browser though; you probably need to use the x11vnc SSL java applet to connect to tightvnc and possily run a 2nd stunnel redirection for the applet downloading.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-07
> **krunge said:**
> Do you really not care if the X session being exported via VNC is the one showing on the physical hardware (monitor and video card) or a virtual one that lives only in RAM and can only be viewed remotely?  Most users do have a preference between the two; it depends on their intended usage (what's yours?)
My main concern is performance (speed, quality), security (encrypted connection), and secure web access (using browser). What is the advantage/disadvantages of X session exported via VNC running on the physical hardware or RAM? If there are no significant difference beside the obvious running on video card versus in RAM, then I would prefer to be using VNC that using X session on the physical hardware so that the display of the VNC is the same as that currently being displayed by the graphic card on the monitor. But again, if that would affect the speed and quality of the session, then X session that lives in RAM is fine. I plan on running only one session at a time (preferably what is currently displayed on the monitor).

> **krunge said:**
> I believe it is basically impossible to use apache mod_ssl to tunnel an arbitrary TCP service.  This is because HTTP/HTTPS is a request-response protocol and not a full bi-directional socket.  The only way I have found to do these things with apache is to use mod_proxy and the AllowCONNECT directive. mod_proxy's CONNECT proxying is a bi-directional socket.

I do have XAMPP installed that uses port 443 so it would be great if the the VNC lives along side the current web server. If it is impossible to use apache's mod_ssl to do bidirectional tunneling of TCP service and since mod_proxy can handle that, does it provide the same level of encryption (SSL so that the java applet for VNC can be access from using a browser via https)? Would this affect the response time (speed) or quality of the session (I assume not but just to make sure)?

> **krunge said:**
> I can show you one way to do multi-user, virtual RAM-only desktops with x11vnc and its SSL enabled java applet. Put this line in /etc/inetd.conf:
```

443 stream  tcp nowait  root  /usr/sbin/tcpd /usr/local/bin/x11vnc -inetd -svc -o /var/tmp/x11vnc-443.log -http -prog /usr/local/bin/x11vnc -env PATH=/usr/bin:bin
```and then restart inetd (note your inetd may be named 'inetd' or 'openbsd-inetd' or 'xinetd'; if xinetd you will need to add the command to /etc/xinetd.d instead.)

Now you have a VNC desktop service that is encrypted via SSL (for the java applet viewer any other SSL enabled viewers.)

The above assumes a number of things:[INDENT]1) You have disabled apache mod_ssl so that port 443 is free.

2) You have disabled any firewalls blocking access to port 443.

3) If the machine is not directly connected to the internet you have configured your router to redirect port 443 on the router to port 443 on the machine running x11vnc/inetd.

4) You have installed the packages named 'openssl' and 'xvfb'.

5) You have built x11vnc yourself and had it install into /usr/local.  The reason for this is that debian (and hence ubuntu) does not ship the SSL enabled x11vnc Java viewer applet (this has actually changed in the past few weeks, but might not yet be available to your distro.)  We need the SSL enabled Java applet to  have an encrypted connection from the web browser.  See the next paragraph for how to relax this.
[/INDENT]If you don't want to build x11vnc from the source (most people don't these days...) and hence naturally get the SSL enabled Java applet, here is a workaround. Install the debian/ubuntu 'x11vnc' package.  Also download the x11vnc source tarball and unpack it somewhere (no need to build it):[INDENT][http://x11vnc.sourceforge.net/dev/x11vnc-0.9.9.tar.gz](http://x11vnc.sourceforge.net/dev/x11vnc-0.9.9.tar.gz)[/INDENT]Then change the inetd line to look like this:
```

443 stream  tcp nowait  root  /usr/sbin/tcpd /usr/bin/x11vnc -inetd -svc -o /var/tmp/x11vnc-443.log -httpdir /path/to/your/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -prog /usr/bin/x11vnc -env PATH=/usr/bin:bin
```and restart inetd. Of course change /path/to/your/... to where you unpacked the x11vnc tarball.
Thank you. This is great but I would rather still use port 443 for apache. I am willing to try it if this is the best solution but would rather still have port 443 free for apache https. I have already taken care of firewall/router blocking requests to port 443. I do have 'openssl' and 'xvfb' installed. I do not mind building x11vnc from source but a .deb package is already available at [http://packages.debian.org/sid/i386/x11vnc/download](http://packages.debian.org/sid/i386/x11vnc/download). Is there any difference beside the version build? Also, why does the x11vnc .tar.gz package still need to be downloaded and tarballed/unpacked? (for the java applet?). Please note that I have openSSH installed if that can help with encryption. I know that I can connect via SSH and tunnel the VNC connection through it but it makes it not convenient to download/run extra software and adjust browser settings to use SOCKS 5 proxy for the connection on a client machine (especially public PCs or PCs with software/networking restrictions).

> **krunge said:**
> In either case you should be able to type in this URL to a java enabled web browser:  [https://your-hostname](https://your-hostname)   or [https://your-IP-address](https://your-IP-address) and connect to x11vnc's login panel via SSL.  Then enter your unix username and password in the login panel.  You should get your own virtual X session this way.  You can reconnect to the same session as many times as you like until you log out of that desktop.

There are a number of variations on this.  E.g. perhaps you don't want multi-user desktops, or only want the physical display to be exported, etc. They can all be done, just ask what you want to do.
That's exactly what I want. HTTPS access to the java applet (VNC including login panel) via SSL.  It is great that I have to enter both the username and password even though I do not care if it only asks for the password. I do not need multi-user desktop and would rather have the physical display exported.

[Unimportant at this point] Is the login panel inside the java applet part or HTML part of the page? The reason I ask is because I am building a main control panel page for access to files via HTTP(S)/(S)FTP and was wondering if I can have username & password fields on a different page and would authenticate when the correct credentials are entered and open the java applet VNC connection.

> **krunge said:**
> Regarding stunnel+tightvnc you can give that a shot too. Follow the stunnel instructions and examples.  However, I think it will be tricky to do SSL from a web browser though; you probably need to use the x11vnc SSL java applet to connect to tightvnc and possily run a 2nd stunnel redirection for the applet downloading.
Stunnel is great programs but from the steps needed to get it to work with TightVNC, it is too much for a Linux n00b like myself. I would just like to say thank you so much for taking the time to write and explain all the options. It is definitely a great honor to learn from a very knowledgeable person like yourself. I greatly appreciate all your help.

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-08
> **verto8 said:**
> If there are no significant difference beside the obvious running on video card versus in RAM...
In an earlier post I tried to make it clear that reading from the video card ***may*** be 100X slower than reading from RAM.  If this is the case you will likely notice the lagginess (e.g. 0.5-1.0 sec to de-iconify a very large window), unless the network connection is very slow and becomes the bottleneck.

But you really have to try it to see.  Your video card + driver may have a fast read rate (e.g. nvidia corp. drivers) in which case you won't notice it. Note that x11vnc prints out the read rate it measures.
> 
If it is impossible to use apache's mod_ssl to do bidirectional tunneling of TCP service and since mod_proxy can handle that, does it provide the same level of encryption (SSL so that the java applet for VNC can be access from using a browser via https)?
Only the VNC connection would need to use the mod_proxy channel. mod_proxy would provide **no** encryption; the SSL encryption is done end-to-end between the java viewer and x11vnc.

WRT the applet download, since that is pure http/https mod_ssl could be used for that.  This is all explained at the link in your first post, but it can be tricky to set up and I don't recommend it if you are short on time/experience/patience. Alternatively, I think the applet download via HTTPS could be done through the mod_proxy channel as well (again using x11vnc's SSL and not apache's), and that would be simpler.
> 
 I am willing to try it if this is the best solution but would rather still have port 443 free for apache https.
There is no real need to use port 443 for the VNC access. I just used that as an example. You can use any port, say, 4444 (or whatever you want.)  Add that port redir to your router and change the port number in inetd.conf. Then the url would be like [https://your-IP-address:4444](https://your-IP-address:4444).

Note that this inetd example I give *avoids* apache completely. I think it will be much easier to set up because of that.
> I do not mind building x11vnc from source but a .deb package is already available at [http://packages.debian.org/sid/i386/x11vnc/download](http://packages.debian.org/sid/i386/x11vnc/download).
That one should work (it has the SSL enabled java applet.)> Also, why does the x11vnc .tar.gz package still need to be downloaded and tarballed/unpacked? (for the java applet?).Yes.> 
That's exactly what I want. HTTPS access to the java applet (VNC including login panel) via SSL. I do not need multi-user desktop and would rather have the physical display exported.
You can do this with the port 4444 example I gave above.

An interesting thing is that this example will actually use the physical display if the user is **already** logged into it. Ask if you want more info.  Alternatively, it is also possible to force x11vnc to only use the physical display.

>  Is the login panel inside the java applet part or HTML part of the page? 
It is in the java applet part, i.e. inside the Viewer window. If the password is incorrect the connection is dropped.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-08
Im sorry that I forgot to mention my hardware/software in the last post. I am using a custom built PC:
- AMD Athlon X2 5200+
- 4GB DDR2 800MHZ RAM
- ATI Radeon 3200HD
- 500GB 3.5" SATA HDD
- OS: Linux Mint 7 (Ubuntu-derivative) (Gnome desktop w/ Compiz)

The graphic card speed as printed by x11vnc is ~43MB/s. There is a few seconds time lag which makes it uncomfortable to use. So, now my best bet of having the maximum performance (speed, quality) and security is to use X session exported to RAM with x11vnc. 

> Alternatively, I think the applet download via HTTPS could be done through the mod_proxy channel as well (again using x11vnc's SSL and not apache's), and that would be simpler.It is great to be able to set this up without using apache's mod_ssl (only using mod_proxy) and still having it encrypted (end-to-end by x11vnc's SSL).

> Note that this inetd example I give *avoids* apache completely. I think it will be much easier to set up because of that.So this does not even use apache's mod_proxy? I do not mind if it does but I like the idea that it can run completely standalone (independent of other software).

> It is in the java applet part, i.e. inside the Viewer window. If the password is incorrect the connection is dropped.That's fine. No problem.

Please help me set this up.

Here is what I did so far:
1. Downloaded and installed /x11vnc_0.9.8-2_i386.deb
2. I downloaded and unpacked x11vnc-0.9.9.tar.gz
3. I do have /etc/inetd.conf, should I add the code of line below and replace port 443 with say 90 so it would look like this?
```
90 stream  tcp nowait  root  /usr/sbin/tcpd /usr/bin/x11vnc -inetd -svc -o /var/tmp/x11vnc-90.log -httpdir /path/to/your/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -prog /usr/bin/x11vnc -env PATH=/usr/bin:bin
``` Of course replacing "/path/to/your/x11vnc-0.9.9" with the real path.

What is multi-user? (Like multiple sessions at the same time? (for the same user?) I only need one user / one session if that makes a difference in the setup or improves performance. Do I use the username/password used to log on to the OS (if not, how do I edit the password for vnc java)?

Please review my steps for installation so far and correct mistakes / make recommendations. Also, how do I start x11vnc and web access with OS start up?

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-08
> I am using a custom built PC:
- ATI Radeon 3200HD
- OS: Linux Mint 7 (Ubuntu-derivative) (Gnome desktop w/ Compiz)
The graphic card speed as printed by x11vnc is ~43MB/s.

That is actually fairly good. I've seen Xorg drivers on recent hardware give only 5-10 MB/s (and so it takes 0.5-1.0 sec to read in a full 1280x1024x32 screen.)

At 5 MB/s things are very painful.  I have a machine with an nvidia card in my basement that does about 115 MB/s and everything with x11vnc seems instantaneous. 40 MB/s should be OK.
> 
There is a few seconds time lag which makes it uncomfortable to use.

A few seconds for what?  A large window to de-iconify or for any activity to appear?  Is this over a LAN or over a slow network link?

Something sounds wrong.  Even on a 4 MB/s fb read rate machine I have (5 year old hardware) de-iconifying a large window only takes 1 sec. So I think you have something misconfigured.  Note that compiz breaks the XDAMAGE extension:
[INDENT][http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-beryl](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-beryl)[/INDENT]
so try running x11vnc including this option:
```
x11vnc -noxdamage ...
```
or for even better performance do not use "-noxdamage" but rather disable compiz.

If these suggestions don't give a speedup, give more details on which activities you are doing that take a few seconds to appear (and the network link), and we will try to tune it.

I'll get to the other questions in your previous post after you reply to the questions in this one.

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-09
> **verto8 said:**
> 
So this does not even use apache's mod_proxy?
That's right, it does not depend on apache at all.

The 'ssl portal' you refer to in your first post: [http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssl-portal.html](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssl-portal.html) is really a way for (multiple) users to access ***multiple*** workstations inside a firewall. This is more appropriate for a company, or at least a home with a lot of computers.  Apache is used as a way to avoid using a separate internet facing port for each machine by providing a mapping of URL to machine. mod_proxy's CONNECT method acts as a gateway to the multiple machines.

Since you just have one machine to access, we simply redirect one port on your router to that machine.  Both x11vnc and its Java viewer applet can do SSL, so we don't need apache for the SSL either.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-10
> **krunge said:**
> That is actually fairly good. I've seen Xorg drivers on recent hardware give only 5-10 MB/s (and so it takes 0.5-1.0 sec to read in a full 1280x1024x32 screen.)

At 5 MB/s things are very painful.  I have a machine with an nvidia card in my basement that does about 115 MB/s and everything with x11vnc seems instantaneous. 40 MB/s should be OK.
OK, it seems like the new version 0.9.8-2 only prints rf read rate of 22-25MB/s in the two sessions that I tried/tested with Compiz completely turned off.

> **krunge said:**
> A few seconds for what?  A large window to de-iconify or for any activity to appear?  Is this over a LAN or over a slow network link?
A few seconds (2-3+ seconds) and sometimes requiring me to move the mouse over the areas in order to update their respective graphic display. Windows are normal (small to medium and not full screen). I am running this over a LAN for testing but it would probably be the same if not slower on my 6MB/s down, 768KB/s up DSL connection. But just for testing purposing, I make sure there is no other network activities happening at the time and just run it over a LAN. I would definitely get  Nvidia graphic card for any computers I build in the future. I expected more out of my ATI Radeon 3200HD (512MB share).

> **krunge said:**
> Something sounds wrong.  Even on a 4 MB/s fb read rate machine I have (5 year old hardware) de-iconifying a large window only takes 1 sec. So I think you have something misconfigured.  Note that compiz breaks the XDAMAGE extension:[INDENT][http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-beryl](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-beryl)[/INDENT]so try running x11vnc including this option:
```
x11vnc -noxdamage ...
```or for even better performance do not use "-noxdamage" but rather disable compiz.
I took your advice of completely disabling Compiz and started x11vnc using:
```
sudo x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -httpport 5800/
``` OR without SSL using:
```
sudo x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes -httpport 5800/
```x11vnc loads and shows the rf read rate in the low to mid 20MB/s and when using another machine on LAN to connect to [http://[x11vnc]("http://%5Bx11vnc") server IP]:5800, I small pop-up windows comes up with "Network Error: Unrecognized SSL message, plaintext connection? [Login again] [Close window]", trying "[Loin again]" would just reload the page and display the same pop-up again. I have changed the x11vnc password using "sudo x11vnc -storepasswd" but the web access does not even prompts me to enter the password but rather just display the error pop-up. It seems like it is missing SSL keys, do they need to be generated? (if so, how? and where to store them?) What am I doing wrong and what do you recommend to fix this / run at optimal settings?

> **krunge said:**
> If these suggestions don't give a speedup, give more details on which activities you are doing that take a few seconds to appear (and the network link), and we will try to tune it.

I'll get to the other questions in your previous post after you reply to the questions in this one.
Do you think that it is still worth it to export X session from graphic card to x11vnc or would X session exported from RAM give better performance (speed, quality)? Either way, the connection would be using the java applet for SSL encryption over the web. Thanks a lot for your help, I highly appreciate your on-going assistance.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-10
> **krunge said:**
> That's right, it does not depend on apache at all.

The 'ssl portal' you refer to in your first post: [http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssl-portal.html](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/ssl-portal.html) is really a way for (multiple) users to access ***multiple*** workstations inside a firewall. This is more appropriate for a company, or at least a home with a lot of computers.  Apache is used as a way to avoid using a separate internet facing port for each machine by providing a mapping of URL to machine. mod_proxy's CONNECT method acts as a gateway to the multiple machines.

Since you just have one machine to access, we simply redirect one port on your router to that machine.  Both x11vnc and its Java viewer applet can do SSL, so we don't need apache for the SSL either.
Perfect. It is easier to manage port forwarding on my router, which does NAT, to enable WAN access to x11vnc since it is only one machine. It also is more transparent and independent plus I can still use apache's SSL (for web pages/files) alongside x11vnc's. Thank you for being such security conscious programmer. :)

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-10
> **verto8 said:**
> OK, it seems like the new version 0.9.8-2 only prints rf read rate of 22-25MB/s in the two sessions that I tried

OK, that matches the best I have seen with an Xorg driver (i.e. not the nvidia proprietary drivers.  I have seen reports of 400+ MB/s with these proprietary drivers.)
> 
A few seconds (2-3+ seconds) and sometimes requiring me to move the mouse over the areas in order to update their respective graphic display. Windows are normal (small to medium and not full screen).

Something still seems quite wrong.  3 seconds is a very long delay... We should probably troubleshoot this because it suggests something wrong with your setup.

Please try the ```
-noxdamage
``` option and let me know if you notice a difference.

If you do not notice a difference, please upload (either as an Attachment to this thread, or PM to me) the **full** x11vnc output for when you do the "-noxdamage" test and it must include the output for when you connect via that VNC viewer over your LAN. Thanks.

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-10
> **verto8 said:**
> 
```
sudo x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes -httpport 5800/
```x11vnc loads and shows the rf read rate in the low to mid 20MB/s and when using another machine on LAN to connect to [http://[x11vnc]("http://%5Bx11vnc") server IP]:5800, I small pop-up windows comes up with "Network Error: Unrecognized SSL message, plaintext connection? [Login again]

Why are you using 'sudo'?  Whose desktop is it?  root's??  If it is your (non-root) desktop there is no need for sudo and it will only complicate matters if it happens to work.

You forgot to put '-ssl SAVE' on your first x11vnc command (SSL enabled case).

Did the 2nd one (no SSL) work?  The '-httpport' is not needed.  Why do you put '/' after the 5800 (probably doesn't matter)?

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-10
> **krunge said:**
> OK, that matches the best I have seen with an Xorg driver (i.e. not the nvidia proprietary drivers.  I have seen reports of 400+ MB/s with these proprietary drivers.)

Something still seems quite wrong.  3 seconds is a very long delay... We should probably troubleshoot this because it suggests something wrong with your setup.
I'm sorry if I made it unclear and hard to understand but I was not able to test x11vnc in the previous post since I got the error message "Network Error: Unrecognized SSL message..." The 2 or so seconds delay is from earlier test with the old version of x11vnc from the repo. I was not able to test the new version 0.9.8 because of the error message when trying to access it. What do you recommend that I do to fix that error message?

> **krunge said:**
> Please try the ```
-noxdamage
``` option and let me know if you notice a difference.

If you do not notice a difference, please upload (either as an Attachment to this thread, or PM to me) the **full** x11vnc output for when you do the "-noxdamage" test and it must include the output for when you connect via that VNC viewer over your LAN. Thanks.
I would definitely try ```
-noxdamage
``` option once we get it to work. How would I go about generate the full output (what commands to use?)? Then I can save that to a text file and upload/attach it to the thread or PM it to you if you prefer. Thanks again.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-10
> **krunge said:**
> Why are you using 'sudo'?  Whose desktop is it?  root's??  If it is your (non-root) desktop there is no need for sudo and it will only complicate matters if it happens to work.

You forgot to put '-ssl SAVE' on your first x11vnc command (SSL enabled case).

Did the 2nd one (no SSL) work?  The '-httpport' is not needed.  Why do you put '/' after the 5800 (probably doesn't matter)?
Give me a few moments, let me try it out now and I'll report back. I will stop using 'sudo' because it is my user's desktop and not roots. The no SSL did not work either (same error message probably because of 'sudo'). The '/' after 5800 is just a typo (sorry). So the command now becomes:
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes -ssl SAVE
``` correct?

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-10
> So the command now becomes:
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes -ssl SAVE
``` correct?
No, the SSL enabled java applet jar is in "/path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl", as in the first (not 2nd) x11vnc command you posted previously.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-10
OK, ```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes -ssl SAVE
``` OR ```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -ssl SAVE
```gets rid of the old error message and it would display the message "connected to server" and seems like it is loading the java applet but then a few seconds later display "network error: remote side closed connection". The ```
-noxdamage
``` option added to each of the above commands did not change anything.

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-10
> 
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -ssl SAVE
```

For reference, since you installed that debian x11vnc-0.9.8 package it and *includes* the SSL java applet viewer jar, you could also run this:
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
```
to achieve the same effect. The "-http" means for x11vnc to find its own system installed "classes/ssl" directory.

Use either command for your testing. Good luck.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-10
> **krunge said:**
> For reference, since you installed that debian x11vnc-0.9.8 package it and *includes* the SSL java applet viewer jar, you could also run this:
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
```to achieve the same effect. The "-http" means for x11vnc to find its own system installed "classes/ssl" directory.

Use either command for your testing. Good luck.
That's is good to know. Thanks. I have PMed you the log from terminal. Is that the log that you were referring to or do I obtain the log using a certain command?

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-10
Not quite, it should be:

Without SSL (URL is [http://host:5800/](http://host:5800/)):
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes
```
OR

With SSL (URL is [http://host:5800/](http://host:5800/) or [https://host:5900](https://host:5900)):
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -ssl SAVE
```
> gets rid of the old error message and it would display the message "connected to server" and seems like it is loading the java applet but then a few seconds later display "network error: remote side closed connection".

OK, getting closer.  For this case where you got further, **exit and restart** your web browser and try again and then please upload (Attachment) the full x11vnc output, including the output for when you try to connect.
> 
The ```
-noxdamage
``` option added to each of the above commands did not change anything.
Keep it in there for when we finally get the connection you can see if the response is improved.

Remember to **exit and restart** your web browser for every new connection attempt.

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-10
> **verto8 said:**
>  How would I go about generate the full output (what commands to use?)? Then I can save that to a text file and upload/attach it to the thread or PM it to you if you prefer. Thanks again.
Oh, I just mean the output x11vnc prints to the screen.  When I say 'full' I just mean all of it, not leaving out parts that do not seem to be of interest (from your point of view.)

The x11vnc '-o myoutput.txt' option will collect the output in the file 'myoutput.txt' which you can upload.  Be sure to try to connect first before sending the output.

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-12
I looked at your log file.  It seems you have found a bug in the Vencrypt detection. (more info: [http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/x11vnc_opts.html#opt-vencrypt](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/x11vnc_opts.html#opt-vencrypt))

Since you likely don't want Vencrypt support, I suggest simply disabling it with the ```
-sslonly
``` x11vnc option.

Then try again.  Be sure to completely exit and restart your web browser for **every** connection attempt.  The reason for this is that the web browser can "remember" failed downloads, etc. so that can lead to confusion when you try something new and but the web browser doesn't try everything from scratch.

Also, what URL do you type in your web browser? [https://hostname:5900/](https://hostname:5900/) or something else?

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-12
Oh, I looked at your logfile one more time and now I think I know what is going on.

At one point you said you ran x11vnc **incorrectly** like this:
```
**WRONG**: x11vnc -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes -ssl SAVE ...
``` This is wrong because you specify x11vnc to use SSL but then point httpdir to a non-SSL VncViewer.jar (in /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes).

The correct way to do this is:
```
**RIGHT**: x11vnc -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -ssl SAVE ...
```
However even after you restart x11vnc the correct way, you did not restart your web browser.  So your web-browser is still using the old non-SSL VncViewer.jar!!!

This mechanism completely explains the failures in the output you sent me, e.g.```
10/09/2009 21:49:53 SSL: helper for peerport 2547 is pid 17108:
10/09/2009 21:49:54 check_vnc_tls_mode: waited: 1.421446 / 1.40 input:(future) RFB Handshake
10/09/2009 21:49:54 check_vnc_tls_mode: version: 3.7
10/09/2009 21:49:54 check_vnc_tls_mode: invalid version: 'RFB 003.007
'
10/09/2009 21:49:54 SSL: accept_openssl: cookie from ssl_helper[17108] FAILED. 0
``` It finally dawned on me that the *only* way VncViewer.jar would be sending the unencrypted string 'RFB 003.007' at this point is if it were the non-SSL VncViewer.jar.

So, as I've said a number of times already, completely restart your web browser for every new attempt/connection.  If you don't know how to restart your web browser you can log out of the desktop and back in, or reboot the machine.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-17
Sorry for the delay in testing and posting as I have been very busy for the past few days. I a have tested x11vnc with great results with Compiz/Fusion disabled or with the '-noxdamage' option with little difference.

With Compiz disabled and using:
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
```I got an rf read rate of above 55MB/s and the connection went very smooth over SSL. It connected pretty quick with good speed/quality (around 0.5-1 second time lag in refresh).

With Compiz still disabled and using:
```
x11vnc -noxdamage -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
```The rf read rate was around 55MB/s and connection was smooth with good speed/quality. I did not notice any difference in performance with the addition of the '-noxdamage' option.

With Compiz enabled and using:
```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
```The rf read rate was about the same but the performance was much slower with longer refresh lag time (above 2 seconds) as expected.

With Compiz still enabled and using:
```
x11vnc -noxdamage -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
```Adding the '-noxdamage' helped a lot in the performance to the point where the refresh/de-iconifying was about the same as with Compiz disabled but with the jaggedness of moving windows (as a result of wobbling effect) as expected. The rf read rate was around 50MB/s.

In any of the cases above using ```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
``` did not make any difference compared to using ```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -ssl SAVE
``` as both worked great. 

Also, x11vnc java applet was only accessible over the web through https and port 5900 ```
https://localhost:5900
```. Neither http or port 5800 worked, ```
http://localhost:5800
``` does not work. 

As far as using the '-sslonly' option as in ```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -http -sslonly SAVE
``` it did not work returning an error "Error: you did not supply the '-ssl ...' option even though you supplied one of these related options: [it list the options here]".

Overall, the x11vnc gives great performance and security. I was wondering what would be the difference in exporting an x session to x11vnc from graphic card versus running in RAM?

**krunge**, thanks a lot for the great software and excellent on-going support. Keep up the good work! :-)

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-18
> **verto8 said:**
> 
With Compiz still disabled and using:
```
x11vnc -noxdamage -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
```The rf read rate was around 55MB/s and connection was smooth with good speed/quality. I did not notice any difference in performance with the addition of the '-noxdamage' option.

Yes, the most noticeable effect of -noxdamage is when compiz is active.  

Note that with compiz disabled and using -noxdamage you might notice that typing response is slower.  This is because XDAMAGE gives hints to x11vnc where there are changes on the screen (it doesn't have to hunt as much for them.)
> 
In any of the cases above using ```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -http -ssl SAVE
``` did not make any difference compared to using ```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -httpdir /path/to/x11vnc-0.9.9/classes/ssl -ssl SAVE
``` as both worked great. 

I was meaning to tell you I thought that would be the case.  The reason is your 0.9.8 debian package for x11vnc includes its own classes/ssl and so the -http locates it automatically.
> 
Also, x11vnc java applet was only accessible over the web through https and port 5900 ```
https://localhost:5900
```. Neither http or port 5800 worked, ```
http://localhost:5800
``` does not work. 

Hmmm, I am not sure what is happening.  Both work for me.  What happens if you use your machine's 'hostname' instead of localhost?  What if you try from a different machine?
> 
As far as using the '-sslonly' option as in ```
x11vnc -forever -usepw -http -sslonly SAVE
``` it did not work returning an error "Error: you did not supply the '-ssl ...' option even though you supplied one of these related options: [it list the options here]".

Yes, you need "... -ssl SAVE -sslonly".  This disables vinagre and vino style SSL encryption.  Anyway, it was my mistake to suggest -sslonly since the java applet failure was due to other things. 
> 
Overall, the x11vnc gives great performance and security. I was wondering what would be the difference in exporting an x session to x11vnc from graphic card versus running in RAM?

I think you will just have to try it and see. It is hard to speculate how noticeable it will be for your environment.  Your fb read rate will probably be about 400MB/sec, which sounds good, but, say, going over a slow network link there are bigger bottlenecks and you might not notice the difference.

---

### Post by verto8 on 2009-09-20
Both [http://[localhost]or]("http://%5Blocalhost%5Dor")[hostname]:5800 and [http://[localhost]or]("http://%5Blocalhost%5Dor")[hostname]:5900 now work after rebooting the OS and running x11vnc again. Both addresses can be accessed from host machine, locally on LAN, and remotely over WAN without any issues.

The rf read rate seems to be depended on whether Compiz is enabled or disabled despite my last post showing very similar rf read rates with Compiz on or off. When I had Compiz on, rebooted the OS and started x11vnc, the rf read rate is around 22-27MB/s. Disabling Compiz increases the rf read rate to around 50-55MB/s. This is probably what accounts for the time lag and delay in de-iconification. Is there any way to increase the rf read rate? (by adjusting the driver settings for the graphics card?)

I have installed Windows XP in a VirtualBox and been testing it's RDP in the virtual machine. RDP seems to be very fast and has built in encryption. RDP can be accessed via web browser using IIS w/ ActiveX controller. I think the web access it not encrypted because the connection is not going through SSL but just through port 80 (by default). Im not using the of the RDP's built-in encryption still applies when being access through ActiveX in a web browser. A nice advantage is the audio over features for transporting sound. The huge disadvantage here is the need to run IIS and using ActiveX (which seems only supported in IE in addition to some settings options that need to be adjusted). There is an RDP server for Linux (xrdp) that I will test and compare in performance and security to other solutions.

x11vnc is still an excellent choice for native Linux usage with Compiz disabled, which is not an issue for a machine being used as server and need remote VNC access. Using the '-noxdamage' option of x11vnc does not give the same performance with Compiz enabled compared to just not using '-noxdamage' and disabling Compiz. **krunge**, how do I start x11vnc to export x session from RAM? as I would like to test it and compare the differences.

---

### Post by krunge on 2009-09-22
> 
When I had Compiz on, rebooted the OS and started x11vnc, the rf read rate is around 22-27MB/s. Disabling Compiz increases the rf read rate to around 50-55MB/s. This is probably what accounts for the time lag and delay in de-iconification.
That is possible.  However it could also be the measurement is flawed for some reason when compiz is on.
> 
Is there any way to increase the rf read rate? (by adjusting the driver settings for the graphics card?)

Not really.  You could go to 16 bit color to get a factor of 2X (I do this on my desktop which has an old radeon and it makes a noticable speedup.)  

Also, if the driver supports ShadowFB you could get a factor of 10-50X speedup, but acceleration is disabled in that mode (however the desktop is still very responsive unless you run games, etc.)
> 
x11vnc is still an excellent choice for native Linux usage with Compiz disabled, which is not an issue for a machine being used as server and need remote VNC access.
Well, IMHO I believe in this basic rule: "The only good Compiz is a disabled Compiz!" :)
> Using the '-noxdamage' option of x11vnc does not give the same performance with Compiz enabled compared to just not using '-noxdamage' and disabling Compiz. 

I'm not quite sure you understand that the use of the "-noxdamage" option with Compiz enabled is merely to work around an Xorg/Compiz bug where they broke the XDAMAGE extension and you might not get **any** VNC updates at all or get them at a very slow rate. It is a workaround.

In general, use of "-noxdamage" disables a nice speedup (especially for typing) and also disables a system load reduction mechanism.
> **krunge**, how do I start x11vnc to export x session from RAM? as I would like to test it and compare the differences.
I believe I told you in post #5 of this thread. See also:
[INDENT][http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-xvfb](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/faq.html#faq-xvfb)
[http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/x11vnc_opts.html#opt-create](http://www.karlrunge.com/x11vnc/x11vnc_opts.html#opt-create)
[/INDENT]

---

