---
title: "ALERT! UUID=62b70d9d-685f-47dc-8433-372a0152b80c does not exist. Dropping to shell!"
date: 2017-10-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kiplingw on 2017-10-06
Hey forum,

I have UEFI disabled in the BIOS. I have two RAID1 arrays. One for boot / root and the other for home. I installed Ubuntu Server 17.10 successfully on the RAID1 arrays. 

I was mucking around with the package manager and I may have broke grub. When I boot, the system drops to initramfs and displays:

ALERT! UUID=62b70d9d-685f-47dc-8433-372a0152b80c does not exist. Dropping to shell!

That UUID is I recall is of the boot / root partition on /dev/md0. /dev/sd{a,b} form the first RAID1 array and /dev/sd{c,d} for the second RAID1 array with the home drive. When the system bails to initramfs shell, I run blkid and i see the individual drives, but not assembled into mdadm arrays. Examining cat /proc/mdstat also confirms nothing is assembled.

From the Live USB stick, I tried running the following, but grub-install gives a weird error:

 $ sudo grub-install /dev/sda
Installing for i386-pc platform.
grub-install: error: failed to get canonical path of `/cow'.

Any help appreciated.

[ATTACH=CONFIG]277006[/ATTACH]
[ATTACH=CONFIG]277007[/ATTACH]
[ATTACH=CONFIG]277008[/ATTACH]
[ATTACH=CONFIG]277009[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-10-06
I do not know RAID.
But /cow is copy on write or the live installer which you cannot write to.
Or you attempted to install grub to live installer not your drive(s).

You have to mount / (root) and /boot if a separate partition, and ESP if UEFI, then you can install grub. Often easier with Boot-Repair but not sure how well it works with RAID.

 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Fixing_a_Broken_System](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Fixing_a_Broken_System)

---

### Post by kiplingw on 2017-10-07
> **oldfred said:**
> I do not know RAID.
But /cow is copy on write or the live installer which you cannot write to.
Or you attempted to install grub to live installer not your drive(s).

You have to mount / (root) and /boot if a separate partition, and ESP if UEFI, then you can install grub. Often easier with Boot-Repair but not sure how well it works with RAID.

 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Fixing_a_Broken_System](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Fixing_a_Broken_System)

Thanks oldfred. What I did was I reinstalled the system / root partition on the first raid array using the Ubuntu Server installer. It re-installed grub correctly. What I think happened was I had accidentally installed one of the shim secure boot and grub efi packages which broke the system because I have secure boot and UEFI disabled in the bios.

---

