---
title: "9.10, network manager applet 0.7 problem"
date: 2009-12-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by muhannadfa on 2009-12-13
networkmanager problem
inactive (it's unshaded on the upper panel) and didn't recognize any of my wired or wireless cards
karmic ubuntu 9.10
intel 915gm
realtek ethernet
intel wireless card

note: i used terminal to connect to internet, thanks in advance

---

### Post by VipX1 on 2009-12-13
```
ifconfig -a
```
This will list all network interfaces connected or otherwise..
Also, try System, Administration, Hardware Drivers.....
You may need a proprietary driver. If there's any drivers there Enable them. You can switch off again after if you want.

---

### Post by muhannadfa on 2009-12-13
okey. 
1st, i tried hardware drivers > no proprietry drivers are in use

2nd, ipconfig -a

gave me four devices eth0, eth1, lo & PPP0

if u wanna me to copy, paste result i'll, thanks in advance :KS

---

### Post by VipX1 on 2009-12-13
```
gedit /etc/network/interfaces
```
Just enter that comand and it will open a file..
```
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback
```
This is probably the only entry..
 
Do you need wired connection?
Or, Do you need WiFI connection?

---

### Post by muhannadfa on 2009-12-13
actually i need both
but i use wired more than wireless
so if i've to choose, i'll go with wired
thanks again

---

### Post by VipX1 on 2009-12-13
I take it you have a LAN lead plugged into the Ethernet connection on the PC in question.
When you click on the Network icon it has no devices listed. No interface you can click on to activate. OK.
Open that same file again but as root by using sudo:```
sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces 

```Now paste the following into the file under the *auto lo* entry:
```
auto eth0 
iface eth0 inet dhcp
```
Save and close the file.

Now restart Network Manager:```
sudo restart network-manager
```
Now after a minute your PC should receive an i.p. from the router and be connected. You'll see the circle spin as it tries to connect.

You have the eth0 and eth1 listed in *ifconfig -a*. That means you have 2 x LAN cards in the PC.
We will only use one for now. Be sure you are plugged into the correct card.

---

### Post by muhannadfa on 2009-12-13
after i opened this file > sudo gedit /etc/network/interfaces
this is what i got

> 
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback


auto dsl-provider
iface dsl-provider inet ppp
pre-up /sbin/ifconfig eth0 up # line maintained by pppoeconf
provider dsl-provider

auto eth0
iface eth0 inet manual


note: i added those lnes after *auto lo*

> 
auto eth0 
iface eth0 inet dhcp
 and restarted connection manager > got nothing
thanks

---

