---
title: "Errors in /etc/fstab"
date: 2007-06-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by roadkill on 2007-06-29
I messed up my /etc/fstab file recently while reloading GRUB after reinstalling Win XP on a partition.  I was able to get it booting properly again (with some help from the forum here), but now /etc/fstab looks like this:

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/mapper/sda2 :
UUID=d2007639-dc0f-4dd4-ab22-57fc32238c7a / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=7E2017CB20178973 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=d48f8799-d74c-4b98-9ecf-061d5f608a6f none swap sw 0 0
/dev/cdrom /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/win ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 0


I'm going to need to reinstall Windows again shortly, should I be nervous about the errors and unknown device lines?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-06-29
I assume your UUID changed.

List your partitions with this command :

```
blkid
```

Or try the format /dev/hsxy or /dev/sdxy  in fstab rather then UUID

---

### Post by roadkill on 2007-06-30
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> I assume your UUID changed.

If so, it's not something I did intentionally.  I made a couple of missteps while restoring GRUB after re-installing Windows, I'd have to assume that was when it happened.

When I attempt using vol_id to view the ID for /dev/sda1, the ID matches what is shown in /etc/fstab.  When I do the same for /dev/sda2, the ID is different.  Would overwriting that value in /etc/fstab be a good move?

> List your partitions with this command :

```
blkid
```

blkid gives me this info:

/dev/sda3: UUID="96722f44-40b6-466b-ac59-d1a15e8aca3b" TYPE="swap" 
/dev/evms/sda3: TYPE="swap" UUID="d48f8799-d74c-4b98-9ecf-061d5f608a6f" 
/dev/evms/sda2: UUID="d2007639-dc0f-4dd4-ab22-57fc32238c7a" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/evms/sda1: TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda1: TYPE="ntfs" 
/dev/sda2: UUID="d2007639-dc0f-4dd4-ab22-57fc32238c7a" SEC_TYPE="ext2" TYPE="ext3" 
/dev/mapper/sda3: TYPE="swap" UUID="96722f44-40b6-466b-ac59-d1a15e8aca3b" 
/dev/mapper/sda1: TYPE="ntfs" 

> Or try the format /dev/hsxy or /dev/sdxy  in fstab rather then UUID

I'm not sure what's meant by this.  Do I need to remove "UUID=" lines and substitute something that includes those identifiers?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-06-30
In the first column of fstab you can use /dev/sdxy, UUID= , or LABEL=

So, 

Either :```
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
/dev/sda1 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_NZ.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
/dev/sda3 none swap sw 0 0
```

Or :```
# Entry for /dev/ !! UNKNOW DEVICE !! :
UUID=96722f44-40b6-466b-ac59-d1a15e8aca3b none swap sw 0 0
```

Your ntfs partition has not UUID. I do not know how to set a uuid on a ntfs partition, sorry.

---

### Post by roadkill on 2007-07-01
Sorry, but you're still talking at a level above what I understand.  /etc/fstab seems to have both the formats you've suggested, do I need to remove one of them manually?

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2007-07-01
LOL

sorry m8

List a partition only one time. It is easier to use /dev/sdxy and UUID will change if it is re-formatted, so I would advise you go with that format.

You can mix and match in fstab without any problem, so if something is working don't fix it :p

You should see my fstab. Most is UUID, but I keep a few mounted by /dev/sdxy, I use LABEL=xxx for a few select removable devices, and worse, 192.168.0.xx for a few select network mounts.

OK, how to edit fstab ?

```
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
```

Link on fstab : 

Short: [http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html](http://www.tuxfiles.org/linuxhelp/fstab.html)

Long: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=283131)

---

### Post by roadkill on 2007-07-04
Thanks for the help.  I've removed the incorrect entries, and nothing exploded on restart.

---

