---
title: "Text Not Showing In Some Applications (Ubuntu 8.10)"
date: 2008-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Meremoth on 2008-11-07
Hello and thanks for taking the time to read this thread.

I'm having a major problem with text not showing up in some applications.  For example: I have a fearcombat_en_107.exe file (installation file for FEAR COMBAT) and when I run the installation file, I can't see any text where there ought to be text (note: I open this file with Wine).  Another example: When I open Configure Wine (Applications - Wine - Configure Wine) I get the same problem.

I've attached some pictures of my problem so you guys can see exactly what I am typing about. 

The odd thing is, this wasn't occurring yesterday.  I'm brand-spanking new to Ubuntu and Linux in general.  I've only been using it for about three days; before that, I've always used Windows. 

I've messed around with the font options and that seems to not solve anything.

The last thing I did before this started to happen was install mplayer, but I'm not sure if that would create this problem.

Here's my system information:

```
System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 11/7/2008 3:09:25 PM
http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo

SYSTEM INFORMATION
	Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 8.10 (intrepid) release.
	GNOME: 2.24.1 (Ubuntu 2008-10-24)
	Kernel version: 2.6.27-7-generic (#1 SMP Tue Nov 4 19:33:20 UTC 2008)
	GCC: 4.3.2 (i486-linux-gnu)
	Xorg: unknown (24 October 2008  08:00:16AM) (24 October 2008  08:00:16AM)
	Hostname: jeremy-desktop
	Uptime: 0 days 0 h 54 min

CPU INFORMATION
	GenuineIntel, Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 2.00GHz
	Number of CPUs: 1
	CPU clock currently at 2017.960 MHz with 512 KB cache
	Numbering: family(15) model(2) stepping(4)
	Bogomips: 4035.92
	Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm up pebs bts

MEMORY INFORMATION
	Total memory: 502 MB
	Total swap: 1466 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
	SCSI device -  scsi0
		Vendor:  ATA      
		Model:  WDC WD1200JB-00G 
	SCSI device -  scsi1
		Vendor:  MITSUMI  
		Model:  CR-48X9TE        
	SCSI device -  scsi1
		Vendor:  SAMSUNG  
		Model:  DVD-ROM SD-616F  

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
	Host bridge
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 650/M650 Host (rev 01)
		Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 8079
	PCI bridge(s)
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] Virtual PCI-to-PCI bridge (AGP)
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] Virtual PCI-to-PCI bridge (AGP)
	USB controller(s)
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.1 Controller (rev 07) (prog-if 10)
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.1 Controller (rev 07) (prog-if 10)
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.1 Controller (rev 07) (prog-if 10)
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] USB 1.1 Controller (rev 07) (prog-if 10)
	ISA bridge
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] SiS961 [MuTIOL Media IO]
	IDE interface
		Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 5513 [IDE] (rev d0) (prog-if 80 [Master])
		Subsystem: ASUSTeK Computer Inc. Device 807a

GRAPHIC CARD
	VGA controller
		nVidia Corporation NV20 [GeForce3 Ti 200] (rev a3)

SOUND CARD
	Multimedia controller
		Creative Labs SB Audigy (rev 03)
		Subsystem: Creative Labs Device 0051

NETWORK
	Ethernet controller
		Atheros Communications Inc. Atheros AR5001X+ Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)
		Subsystem: D-Link System Inc Device 3a13

NVIDIA GRAPHIC CARD INFORMATION
	Model name: GeForce3 Ti 200
	Card Type: AGP 4x
	Video RAM: 64 MB
	GPU Frequency: 174 MHz
	Driver version: NVIDIA Linux x86 Kernel Module  96.43.09  Mon Oct 27 14:23:30 PST 2008
```


If anymore information is required or needed from me, please just let me know, and I would be more than happy to provide.

Any help or suggestions on what to do is very much appreciated.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Meremoth on 2008-11-08
It's also happening when I use OpenOffice.org Writer.

Another odd thing is when I scroll down my right-click menu (i.e. copy, paste, delete, etc.), the menu options will show up for a split-second, only if I'm scrolling really fast.

The text, for some reason, shows up when typing.

Any suggestions anyone?  I'm desperate.

---

### Post by Meremoth on 2008-11-08
So I started to mess around with the Visual Effects in the Appearance Preferences and I switched from "Normal" to "None".  Instead of no text showing up, now scrambled text is showing up.  I can't read it.  

I've attached some screenshots.

This is preventing me from installing programs and doing many other things.

Can anyone help?  Anyone?

---

### Post by unibus on 2008-11-08
> **Meremoth said:**
> So I started to mess around with the Visual Effects in the Appearance Preferences and I switched from "Normal" to "None".  Instead of no text showing up, now scrambled text is showing up.  I can't read it.  

I've attached some screenshots.

This is preventing me from installing programs and doing many other things.

Can anyone help?  Anyone?

  I have just started out with Ubuntu having come from another distro.  But I have been having the same problem since I loaded the Nvidia 96.43.09. driver from the "proposed" repository.   However when I set visual effects to "none" instead of "normal" in the appearance settings my problem goes away.

   Don't know if this will help your troubleshooting but good luck.

Unibus....

---

### Post by Flyboywilly on 2008-11-29
I can state that I have the exact same situation and the switch from "Normal" to "none" in the visual effects tab is the temporary band-aid i can come up with quickly.  Not all programs are affected.  Open Office is a biggee.  I just started using Ubuntu within the past month on a donor system and the Nvidia drivers have given me the most grief but I am solving the problems one at a time.

---

### Post by atomic450 on 2008-12-02
> **Meremoth said:**
> So I started to mess around with the Visual Effects in the Appearance Preferences and I switched from "Normal" to "None".  Instead of no text showing up, now scrambled text is showing up.  I can't read it.  

I've attached some screenshots.

This is preventing me from installing programs and doing many other things.

Can anyone help?  Anyone?

-------
You might try the following:
edit your xorg.conf file to

Option "RenderAccel" "False"
or
Option "RenderAccel" "0"

in the Section "Device".

I had the same problem and found this solution on launchpad.
bug #294076

This will not fix your problems with WINE, I still have the same issues within WINE.

HTH
Steve

---

### Post by ohurcool73 on 2009-03-17
Hi 
I had the same problem.All you have to do is go to System_Administration_Hardware Drivers and activate the NVDIA graphics driver version 177 and it should be back to normal.
I hope this solved your problem

---

### Post by AnotherHuman on 2009-04-08
I also am having the same problem. Just installed Linux today, nothing but hassle so far. 

Just hope I can get used to it. Also, the switching it to "none" thing worked for me.

---

