---
title: "11.10 Can't Log In"
date: 2011-12-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Backzlider on 2011-12-11
When trying to log in, the login screen just reappears. Can login as guest no problem.

Have tried the usual fix and deleted the .Xauthority file, but it just reappears when I drop out of the console and try to log in.... this sux

---

### Post by Backzlider on 2011-12-12
Ok, so:

```

tail -f .xsession-errors

```

This gives me:

```

/.profile: 24 Syntax error:  Unterminated quoted string

```

I find it truly remarkable that a freshly installed operating system would throw such an error :?

---

### Post by Backzlider on 2011-12-12
And there it is:

```

cat .profile

```

gives (last line):

```

[ -s "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" ]] && . "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm

```

---

### Post by jonnyboysmithy on 2011-12-12
How about the home folder? That is fresh as well?

---

### Post by Backzlider on 2011-12-12
The fix:

```

nano .profile

```

Edit the file (add quote at end of line):

```

[ -s "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm" ]] && . "$HOME/.rvm/scripts/rvm"

```


That's it!  I can now login normally.

---

### Post by 64mgb on 2011-12-19
I've tried everything I've found for this problem (primarily deleting .Xauthority*) but still can't log in. I can log in from the terminal (ctrl-alt-f1) but can't log in normally...I can't even log in with a guest account.  If I remember right all I did before trying to reboot was to uninstall and reinstall libimobiledevice stuff.

Any ideas what I can try?

Thanks,
Rich

---

### Post by 64mgb on 2011-12-20
> **64mgb said:**
> I've tried everything I've found for this problem (primarily deleting .Xauthority*) but still can't log in. I can log in from the terminal (ctrl-alt-f1) but can't log in normally...I can't even log in with a guest account.  If I remember right all I did before trying to reboot was to uninstall and reinstall libimobiledevice stuff.

Any ideas what I can try?

Thanks,
Rich

Here is some more info that I think is pertinent but don't know what to do about it.

At the login screen when you click the gear-like icon in the upper right corner of the login area you get a list of the different session types you can run.  But on the pc I can't log in to, the list is empty (see the attached photos).

Also, when I login from the terminal, then execute these commands:

sudo killall dmlight
startx &

I get a blank screen, except the mouse pointer is visible and active.

Any ideas?

Thanks,
Rich

---

### Post by 64mgb on 2011-12-22
> **64mgb said:**
> Here is some more info that I think is pertinent but don't know what to do about it.

At the login screen when you click the gear-like icon in the upper right corner of the login area you get a list of the different session types you can run.  But on the pc I can't log in to, the list is empty (see the attached photos).

Also, when I login from the terminal, then execute these commands:

sudo killall dmlight
startx &

I get a blank screen, except the mouse pointer is visible and active.

Any ideas?

Thanks,
Rich

Still haven't figured this out so I'm going to bump it once or twice to see if I can get some help.

Rich

---

### Post by abednego4609 on 2011-12-25
it happens to me right now too... i cant login after i do a hard reset. 
i hope someone can help me here, i dont want to do a fresh install... i dont have an internet connection to support my ubuntu...

i tried login from text mode, but it gives me "Module is unknown" error. 
it reallyreally wont let me login.
even editting the .profiles didnt work for me.

---

### Post by abednego4609 on 2011-12-25
checked the .xsession-errors, found out that something happenned in  /etc/profile. all the "new line" ,somehow, replaced with "\n".  

i replaced all "\n" with the enter button.
everything goes well..
:)

---

### Post by 64mgb on 2011-12-27
Ok...one more bump, then it's a fresh install  :(

Rich

---

