---
title: "9.04 idiots guide to gui and rtorrent?"
date: 2011-06-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by USFMD82 on 2011-06-11
I can only find rtpg in the synaptic, how do i dl others I [hear ru is the best. either way im lost as to how i set up my gui for rtorrent I dl rtorrent .8 from synaptic along with rtpg. I cant find either in the menus. I did rtorrent and terminal and realized i wont be able to work that way very well. Also i tried google but came back with to many hits. btw im not trying to host or access via net or anything just wanted to set this up on the comp. Thanks in advance for the help.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-06-11
I cannot help with gui frontends for rtorrent as I have always used the ncurses version and I suspect that if you persist with the ncurses interface you too will find it second nature after a while. Have you seen the nice page by K.Mandla:

Howto: Use rtorrent like a pro
[http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/05/02/howto-use-rtorrent-like-a-pro/](http://kmandla.wordpress.com/2007/05/02/howto-use-rtorrent-like-a-pro/)

It helped me out when I was struggling a little with rtorrent.

---

### Post by USFMD82 on 2011-06-11
I have read it a little but not having much luck with it still hoping to add a gui to it. But ill keep trying

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-06-11
There are many, many gui bittorrent clients for ubuntu.

Have you tried deluge or transmission?

If you have a cli only system, and you don't need much in the way of features, may I suggest transmissioncli ?

---

### Post by USFMD82 on 2011-06-11
this may be a solve-able issue but the torrent gui's available are not working on my private tracker (revtt).

Transmission - banned, the version i got in synaptic is older I cat figure out how to update it.
Ktorrent - everything stalls
qbittorrent -no luck there either

is there perhaps a way to update transmission to a newer version in terminal the tracker accepts newer versions

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-06-11
> **USFMD82 said:**
> is there perhaps a way to update transmission to a newer version in terminal the tracker accepts newer versions

Sure is:
Howto: Build the BitTorrent client Transmission under the latest Ubuntu release
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1710361](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1710361)

Perhaps be the first person besides myself to comment on this guide :(.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-06-11
> **andrew.46 said:**
> 

Perhaps be the first person besides myself to comment on this guide :(.

Just because I don't comment on a guide, doesn't mean I don't use it or am ungrateful.

I'm absolutely sure there are many others just like myself.

Please keep posting them. :D

---

### Post by USFMD82 on 2011-06-11
Im using 9.04 though. Im unable to upgrade to another version. will this still work

---

### Post by psusi on 2011-06-11
9.04 and 9.10 have reached end of life and are no longer supported.  You need to upgrade.  Continuing to run unsupported releases exposes you to potential security threats as any bugs found are no longer being fixed.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2011-06-12
> **USFMD82 said:**
> Im using 9.04 though. Im unable to upgrade to another version. will this still work

psusi makes an excellent point BTW and you should definitely consider upgrading. You may run into trouble with the guide on an older version (sorry I missed the 9.04 thing!) but I note this PPA still builds for 9.04:

[https://launchpad.net/~transmissionbt/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~transmissionbt/+archive/ppa)

and might be worth looking at? I have not tested the PPA myself I should mention...

---

### Post by USFMD82 on 2011-06-12
I am using a "ported" version of ubuntu so im pretty sure im stuck in 9.04 im using "'Rhobuntu" on my touch pro2. Rtorrent is the only program im able to dl to my knowledge my tracker allows.Newer versions appear to be approved.

I have tried rtorrent more did the ctrl s and it switches to "open" but still says inactive

---

