---
title: "11.04 Natty freezes after several minutes of use, shows white screen"
date: 2011-05-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Deitrius on 2011-05-15
I've been unable to resolve this problem for the past weeks and have come as far as I can trying to fix it on my own. I have a fresh install of 11.04 on a Shuttle ST20G5 with a Radeon Xpress 200g chipset. After 5-10 minutes of usage in X, it freezes solid (no response to alt-sysreq) and displays a white screen (sometimes with a pattern). I believe it's a kernel issue.

Things I've tried but still resulted in crashes:
- Switching to VESA graphics
- Running failsafe / Recovery Console X
- Downgrading X server to 2.09
- Running latest X server via ppa (at least, I think I did this. Maybe I didn't)
- Upgrading kernel to 2.6.39-0 via ppa
- Running the live cd

I get no warnings or errors of note in xsession-errors or kern.log

I have not been able to catch the error or obtain any troubleshooting info. When it crashes, it just crashes. If anyone has any suggestions on how to log the crash, please  let me know.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2011-05-15
This may seem like a shot in the dark, but after trying the above and also not being able to find log files, have you considered that a piece of hardware may have gone bad?  I would suggest testing your memory chips (and/or removing them individually if possible).  It could also be crazier things like the power supply or the motherboard.  I've experienced issues like this is the past with older hardware, though in my case it often took weeks of runtime before the issue manifested itself.

---

### Post by 9072997 on 2011-07-25
i have experienced a simaler problem with 11.04. i read somewhere that it was an issue with the new nvidia proprietary driver. he suggested a downgrade to driver version 173

---

### Post by zero244 on 2011-07-25
These can be hard to figure out. If the system was running ok and then suddenly started freezing.
I would suspect a hardware malfunction as well.

I was getting random freeze ups with a dual Windows xp Lucid machine. It would usually happen quicker if I tried to run something like a movie or play a song.
It turned out to be a bad motherboard, which I replaced and I have not had a single issue since.
It could be something like a video card driver, seems like every card works better with a particular driver.

I might add the motherboard that went south on me was less than six months old.
You might check inside your case and make sure everything is solid and keep an eye on cpu temps it could be overheating.

---

