---
title: "9.04 Slow and question about ext4"
date: 2009-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by anarchy305 on 2009-05-12
So lastnight i wiped my 8.04 system completely. And upped my file system from ext3 to the new ext4 and put on the new 9.04

1. Boot was fast as everyone said and i was able to login to 9.04 for the firs time. After logging in i noticed that there is a small lag when accessing things on the menu. Like if i go to applications and go to internet and just try to move my mouse to each item displayed like firefox and then down to evolution it takes a second for it to highlight instead of a millisecond like i did in 8.04. I have 2GB of memory and a 3gb swap so i cant understand what could be the problem.

2. I noticed there is a few more things in the startup applications and just wanted to know what each one does so that i can disable the ones i dont need, maybe this will clear up my speed problem above.

3. should have waited before moving to ext4. I see its stable but how stable is stable. 

Question for #1: What could be causing this slowness and how can i get the responce time back to milliseconds instead of actual seconds?

Questions for #2: Can anyone provide me with a friendly description of all the default startup application in 9.04 and if they are safe to disable?

Question for #3: How stable is ext4? Should i revert back to ext3 and wait a little while until it is tested further? 

Much thanks

---

### Post by Arup on 2009-05-12
Ext 4 is fine, no issues whatsoever except for some poorly programmed apps which are rare thankfully. Make sure you have no power outages.

---

### Post by anarchy305 on 2009-05-12
Thanks for the answer for question 3 can anyone answer my questions 1 & 2 as well?

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-05-12
You will find a method for speeding up the menu response in [This Thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1138229"). It improved the menu speed and smoothness dramatically on my 9.04.

---

### Post by anarchy305 on 2009-05-13
Interesting enough, i wiped everything again only this time i reverted back to ext 3 from ext 4. And all was fine again speed wise just like i had it in 8.04.

I guess ext4 is not as stable as everyone says it is. It does speed up startup a lot but working with it, i wouldnt recommend it for right now.

---

