---
title: "8.04 Firefox 2, Unable to install any addons"
date: 2008-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by noumaan on 2008-05-22
I am using ubuntu 8.04. I removed firefox beta 3 because it didnt support google browser sync plugin. I then installed firefox 2 from synaptic. Now I can not install any addons from mozilla website. I am unable to install google browser sync too. When I am trying to install any addon I see this error: 

Firefox could not install the file at: 

[http://location.of.the.addon.file.xpi](http://location.of.the.addon.file.xpi)

because: unexpected installation error

Review the Error Console Log for more details.
-203

The Error console log shows this error: 

Error: installLocation has no properties
Source File: file:///usr/lib/firefox/components/nsExtensionManager.js
Line: 3938

Does any one know what might be causing this? Please help me resolve this issue. 

I am using Hardy Heron amd64.

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-05-22
Yes, this is because when you ran FF3, it upgraded your profile. Now you've gone back to FF2, it is not compatible with the profile that FF3 left. AFAIK, the only way around this is to start with a fresh profile:
```
mv ~/.mozilla/firefox ~/.mozilla/firefox.backup
```
...will remove (but backup) your Firefox profile

---

### Post by noumaan on 2008-05-22
Chris, thank you. I have found the solution which was to delete all .rdf files in /home/username/.mozilla directory. But since I had nothing saved in my profile yet (no bookmarks or passwords etc) so it was safe to delete entire .mozilla directory and reinstall firefox2.

---

