---
title: "8.04 Install Problems"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sarsippius on 2008-04-24
I have been running Ubuntu 7.04 for a while.  I decided to give Kubuntu a try, and I get the following problem:

When I try to do the install, it comes up to the partitioner screen, but it does not show my hard drive.  I currently have 7.04 installed, and am wanting to do a clean install.  I'm not sure why my drive is not showing up at all.  This is not only happening to me on this one computer, but so far every computer I've run the installer on.

I don't think I could have 4 cds all be bad, coming from 3 different computers.

I also tried Ubuntu 7.10, with the same results.  I don't know what else to try to get Kubuntu installed.

Thanks in advance to any help!

---

### Post by sarsippius on 2008-04-24
On my computer, I have 2 IDE drives.

Master: 320Gb, which currently has Ubuntu 7.04
Slave: 250Gb, which is currently formatted NTFS

When I plugged in my 250Gb drive, and started the installer, Kubuntu found both drives with no problem.

What would cause that?

Thanks for any help!

---

### Post by chchyong89 on 2008-04-24
yaya.. i just download RC1 this afternoon..
problem problem

my rig is MSI P35 Neo-F with 2GB RAM, HD3450, and one 80GB SATA1 western digital Hardisk, with one SATA DVD writer
vista installed on my system..
when i boot into the linux and wan to install, my hardisk do not show up.. HOW come? last time i do same method on ubuntu 7.10, no such problem occur one.. pls help me out

---

