---
title: "12.10 landscape printing problem from Libre Office"
date: 2012-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Riverine on 2012-11-06
I've been landscape printing portions of Libre Office Calc spreadsheets for several years, but when I upgraded to Ubuntu 12.04 the output would come out in portrait format despite setting both Libre Office and printer settings to landscape.  (The print preview would show landscape format as well.)

My first workaround was to print the selection to a PDF file, then open it with Evince and print it from there.  This worked, but it wasn't convenient.

Then I found a setting in Libre Office which fixed the problem.  Under the Print... dialog, on the General Tab, click the Properties... button.  In the Properties dialog select the Device tab and change the language selection from PDF to Postscript (Level from driver).  Unfortunately I haven't found a way to make Libre Office default to the Postscript language setting so I have to reset it each time I print.

I'm using a Samsung ML-1430 laser printer.

I posted this just in case anyone else has had a similar problem.

---

### Post by CaptainLinux on 2012-11-06
Try changing the setting with the printer administration utility.

```
/usr/lib/libreoffice/program/spadmin
```

---

### Post by aanirone on 2012-11-23
I have the same problem with Libre Writer and tried changing the setting with the printer administration utility. The problem is that it keeps changing back to PDF from Postscript.

I have Lexmark E120n and the problem with landscape printing started after upgrading from Ubuntu 12.04 to 12.10.

---

### Post by p-dh on 2012-11-29
Thanks. That solved my problem. /usr/lib/libreoffice/program/spadmin worked as well.

I have an HP LaserJet 1022.

Paul :cool:

---

### Post by gramo.gnu on 2013-11-06
Thanks for your help. Works fine.

I use Tools->Options menu in order to configure things for the whole system by default.

When Options' window appears I choose print and deselect PDF checkbox.

---

### Post by drew314 on 2014-01-09
From Libre Office: Tools>Options>LibreOffice>print deselect  " PDF as Standard Print Job Format" allowed me to print landscape. 

Changing to landscape @ /usr/lib/libreoffice/program/spadmin did not work for me.

I am using a Brother laser and Cannon inkjet and had the problem on both. Forced me to reboot into windows/msoffice a few times before I found this. Thanks for the post!

---

