---
title: "12.04 Constant I/O to HDD"
date: 2012-06-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by temporos on 2012-06-03
I'm running 12.04 (Precise) on an ASUS Eeepc 1005HA netbook that's about 4 years-old.  10.04 (Lucid) ran beautifully on this machine, but 12.04 is just *crawling*.  The netbook is maxed-out at 1 GB of RAM, and has approx. 40 GB free on its 120 GB HDD.

I've noticed that 12.04 reads and/or writes from/to the hard disk for *everything*.  I open a new browser tab, it accesses the HDD.  I move my mouse, it accesses the HDD.  I do **absolutely nothing**, it accesses the HDD.  The HDD activity light is on (and I hear the HDD working) about 90% of the time.  It is accessing the HDD as I type this, and I'm running only my browser with only the Ubuntu Forums open.

What is so different about Precise that it needs to access the HDD so often, as opposed to Lucid?  Is there a way to make Precise run more smoothly on an older netbook?  It's getting really irritating, since Ubuntu will lock up for 30+ seconds every... 30+ seconds, because it's too busy doing something with the HDD to respond to me.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-06-03
> **temporos said:**
> I'm running 12.04 (Precise) on an ASUS Eeepc 1005HA netbook that's about 4 years-old.  10.04 (Lucid) ran beautifully on this machine, but 12.04 is just *crawling*.  The netbook is maxed-out at 1 GB of RAM, and has approx. 40 GB free on its 120 GB HDD.

I've noticed that 12.04 reads and/or writes from/to the hard disk for *everything*.  I open a new browser tab, it accesses the HDD.  I move my mouse, it accesses the HDD.  I do **absolutely nothing**, it accesses the HDD.  The HDD activity light is on (and I hear the HDD working) about 90% of the time.  It is accessing the HDD as I type this, and I'm running only my browser with only the Ubuntu Forums open.

What is so different about Precise that it needs to access the HDD so often, as opposed to Lucid?  Is there a way to make Precise run more smoothly on an older netbook?  It's getting really irritating, since Ubuntu will lock up for 30+ seconds every... 30+ seconds, because it's too busy doing something with the HDD to respond to me.

i rather have you use kde4 with out opengl 2.1 composting features. Vanilla ubuntu is just too much for that netbook

---

### Post by temporos on 2012-06-05
"Vanilla" Ubuntu?  I'm just using the standard 12.04 desktop edition.  I'd really like to stick with Gnome, though, since that's the GUI I'm familiar with.  I remember KDE a little, and I didn't like it all that much.  Is there anything you could recommend that would let me keep Gnome and all my Gnome-based apps?

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-06-06
> **temporos said:**
> "Vanilla" Ubuntu?  I'm just using the standard 12.04 desktop edition.  I'd really like to stick with Gnome, though, since that's the GUI I'm familiar with.  I remember KDE a little, and I didn't like it all that much.  Is there anything you could recommend that would let me keep Gnome and all my Gnome-based apps?

vanilla ubuntu means unmodified ubuntu
vanilla is a slang for unmodified
[http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=vanilla](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=vanilla)
#3 definition
12.04 unity is bloated and it is a concoction that canonical came up with

gnome3 and unity lately are very resource demanding for a netbook. I cannot help you

Try something like xfce, it should remicient of the classic gnome2 bars
You can still use gnome apps regardless of desktop
hey i use guake on kde. that is stupid because i slowed down my boot pointlessly

---

### Post by Erden on 2012-06-06
> **temporos said:**
> I'm running 12.04 (Precise) on an ASUS Eeepc 1005HA netbook that's about 4 years-old.  10.04 (Lucid) ran beautifully on this machine, but 12.04 is just *crawling*.  The netbook is maxed-out at 1 GB of RAM, and has approx. 40 GB free on its 120 GB HDD.

What is the cpu? I have an old laptop Pentium M 1.6GHz, 1G, 80GB HD, and 12.04 works pretty well. Is it a fresh install?

---

### Post by temporos on 2012-06-06
> **idoitprone said:**
> Try something like xfce, it should remicient of the classic gnome2 bars
I discovered Lubuntu last night.  I'll try installing that this weekend.

> **Erden said:**
> What is the cpu? I have an old laptop Pentium M 1.6GHz, 1G, 80GB HD, and 12.04 works pretty well. Is it a fresh install?
Yup, fresh install and fully updated.  Here are some specs for ya.
```
OEM: ASUS EeePC 1005HA (built 2008)
Memory: 992.9 MiB
Processor: Intel® Atom™ CPU N270 @ 1.60GHz × 2
Disk: 158.8 GB
```
Yeah, it's kind of under-powered relative to today's standards.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2012-06-07
> **temporos said:**
> I discovered Lubuntu last night.  I'll try installing that this weekend.


Yup, fresh install and fully updated.  Here are some specs for ya.
```
OEM: ASUS EeePC 1005HA (built 2008)
Memory: 992.9 MiB
Processor: Intel® Atom&#8482; CPU N270 @ 1.60GHz × 2
Disk: 158.8 GB
```Yeah, it's kind of under-powered relative to today's standards.

A 1.6 ghz pentium M is faster than atom 270. Atom 270 should be comparable to and pentium 4 series which is slow. I know because I owned an atom 280 for almost 2 years. Disk size does not matter but ram size and chip speed matters.
Lubuntu is probably a better choice than xubuntu because of ram requirements.

It might be better to get a kernel congiured with bfs kernel schedules and a lower resource io scheduler. You computer willl feel snapper

try this ppa 
[https://launchpad.net/~chogydan/+archive/ppa]("https://launchpad.net/%7Echogydan/+archive/ppa")

here is to change schedulers
[http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-change-io-scheduler-for-harddisk/](http://www.cyberciti.biz/faq/linux-change-io-scheduler-for-harddisk/)

deadline is the best choice for desktop hdd

---

