---
title: "From login screen to failsafe Xterm"
date: 2006-12-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-23
Hello everyone,

I'm in a very peculiar situation right now as a result of a series of events which happened in time. I'll try to respect the right series of events to give you a more broad and clear perspective of what's going on with my Ubuntu.

A few months ago, in early july, i installed Dapper on a Dell Inspiron 6400 laptop with ATI x1300 as video card. All went fine from the first moment on. Afterwards, via Synaptic, the rest of the desktop environments added to Gnome, because I wanted to get a broader understanding of the various ways Ubuntu can be used/tweaked. Again, no problems encountered whatsoever.
Using the tutorials in the HowTo section, i've installed conky and another script which did something with the terminal (i really forgot what it was, 'cause i didn't use it very much, and then the mishapp ocurred). In the end, with proper ATI drivers installed I set up Compiz using one of the many threads available at the time. I should mention that I didn't knew about the availability of several tutorials, so I chose between the nvidia and ati one as they appeared for the first time in my search. I do remember that in was running compiz as a secondary server, on top of Xorg I guess. Again, everything went fine for a while, and the various problems generated by the frequent changes in compiz were quickly resolved on these forums.
Then Edgy appeared, so I dist-upgraded my box, "lured" by the enhancements promised in the new Gnome which all in all were ment to offer a better support for laptops in general. The upgrade went on with almost no problems, or nothing I couldn't fix if you wish. :) Still, because of the various tweaking I did when wrestling with compiz, I cannot go beyond login screen for a while, although Ubuntu seems to be running fine in it's absence. The only GUI i can get into is Failsafe Gnome. 

Steps taken to remedy the situation: 

I realised that my only chance to get the things straight would be to completely remove all graphical-related files, and I issued >  sudo apt-get autoremove kde ubuntu-desktop xubuntu-desktop xorg gdm kdm  I'll mention here that although kdm appeared in my system along with Kde, I stuck with gdm all the way.

Right now I've reissued >  sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop and let it install all the dependencies it needed. Still, I noticed that some settings in Xorg were kept, like 1200x800 resolution, so I really wonder now if it wouldn't have been better to manually remove from **/etc/gdm** and **/etc/X11** folders.

Here's my .xsession-errors output> /etc/gdm/PreSession/Default: Registering your session with wtmp and utmp
 /etc/gdm/PreSession/Default: running: /usr/X11R6/bin/sessreg -a -w /var/log/wtmp -u /var/run/utmp -x "/var/lib/gdm/:0.Xservers" -h "" -l ":0" "nokia"
 /etc/gdm/Xsession: Beginning session setup...
 /etc/gdm/Xsession: Executing startxfce4 failed, will try to run x-terminal-emulator
 and when i issue **fglrxinfo** I get the following > Xlib: connection to "0:0" refused by the server 
Xlib: No protocol specified
Error: unable to open display :0

In the end, I just want to state that I refuse to give up and reinstall a perfectly running box for my lack of knowledge. :)

In the end, I want to say Thanks to all the forumists who took the time to read this thread and who helped me throughout the year and for everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year :) :KS :)

---

### Post by pay on 2006-12-23
Well even though you have now reinstalled Ubuntu, I'll say it anyway. I think the problem MAY have come from using XGl which is an add on to the x server, and then compeletly replacing the x server with an edgy upgrade. Also, when the kernel gets upgraded, you need to reinstall the ati drivers. Also, depending on how old your ati card (in this case the older the better) you may want to try aiglx next time, which is built into xorg7.1 (the one that is in edgy). Good luck with your fresh install.

---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-23
1: There wasn't and there's not gonna be a fresh install :)
2: Ati drivers are reinstalled, aiglx also 

Right now, as I see it, is just a problem of missconfig with the server, but I don't know where to search for it. Something about the default display...

---

### Post by pay on 2006-12-23
Sorry I miss read. It's late where I am. The config you are talking about is /etc/X11/xorg.conf. To edit it without a display use```
sudo nano /etc/X11.xorg.conf
```Well I guess it's time for bed:)

---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-23
Figured as much, but I don't know what is wrong there.
Thanks anyway and good night :)

---

### Post by pay on 2006-12-23
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```then post the output and someone will figure out the problem.

---

### Post by koenn on 2006-12-23
> Right now I've reissued
Quote:
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop
and let it install all the dependencies it needed. Still, I noticed that some settings in Xorg were kept, like 1200x800 resolution, so I really wonder now if it wouldn't have been better to manually remove from /etc/gdm and /etc/X11 folders.
to reconfigure xserver, run
```
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```
when in doubt, stick with the values already there (they come from your current config), but reduce resolution and color depth to something manageble (when troubleshooting xorg, i usually start with 800x600, 16 colors). You can increase later, if things are working again, and you know you have something to fall back to. 

(re-)installing ubuntu-deskop is not gonna help, it's just a meta-package, a collection of dependencies to install all 'desktop' apps at once. 


> Executing startxfce4 failed
looks like gdm is trying  to start  Xfce desktop environment (and failing)
any idea where that could come from ? Xubuntu ? i don't see it mentioned in your post.
This (and /or the fact that Xserver can't create e display from the settings currently in your xorg.conf) may very well be the reason you can't get a desktop

---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-23
> Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
        InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
Option "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "Files"

        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

#Section "Module"
#       Load  "bitmap"
#       Load  "ddc"
#       Load  "dri"
#       Load  "extmod"
#       Load  "freetype"
#       Load  "glx"
#       Load  "int10"
#       Load  "type1"
#       Load  "vbe"
#EndSection

Section "Module"
# Load "GLcore"
 Load "i2c"
 Load "bitmap"
 Load "ddc"
 Load "dbe"
 Load "dri"
 Load "extmod"
 Load "freetype"
 Load "glx"
 Load "int10”
 Load "type1”
 Load "vbe"
EndSection




Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver      "kbd"
        Option      "CoreKeyboard"
        Option      "XkbRules" "xorg"
        Option      "XkbModel" "pc104"
        Option      "XkbLayout" "us"
        Option      "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
        Driver      "mouse"
        Option      "CorePointer"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
        Option      "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
        Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver      "synaptics"
        Option      "SendCoreEvents" "true"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/psaux"
        Option      "Protocol" "auto-dev"
        Option      "HorizScrollDelta" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
        Identifier  "stylus"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
        Option      "Type" "stylus"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
        Identifier  "eraser"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
        Option      "Type" "eraser"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
        Identifier  "cursor"
        Driver      "wacom"
        Option      "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to
        Option      "Type" "cursor"
        Option      "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
        HorizSync    30.0 - 65.0
        VertRefresh  50.0 - 75.0
        Option      "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. ATI Default Card"
        Driver      "fglrx"
        Option      "VideoOverlay" "on"
        Option      "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
        BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier "Default Screen"
        Device     "ATI Technologies, Inc. ATI Default Card"
        Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth     24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     1
                Modes    "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     4
                Modes    "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     8
                Modes    "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     15
                Modes    "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     16
                Modes    "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth     24
                Modes    "1280x800" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


Section "DRI"
        Mode         0666
EndSection

The last thing I tried before autoremoving all graphical packages, as I thought I was doing, was to install xubuntu-desktop hoping for a change of some sort, but that didn't happened. Anyway, above lies my **xorg.conf** and here's my **gdm.conf-custom** where might be an issue also > 
[daemon]

[security]

[xdmcp]

[gui]

[greeter]

[chooser]

[debug]

#[servers]
0=aiglx

#[server-aiglx]
name=aiglx server
command=/usr/bin/Xorg-air :0
flexible=true

---

### Post by koenn on 2006-12-23
tour xserver is still trying to do 1280x800 with color depth 24 - this may well have been ok on a stable system with the correct video driversb but you don't have that any more. Fall back to an (almost) failsafe 800x600. 
Your goal is to get X working, then be able to login again to a normal desktop, then upgrade your desktop

So, after reconfigure xorg, get rid of xfce. try
```
apt-get --purge remove xfce
```

make sure you have a desktop manager installed
```
apt-get install gdm
```
this should get the "Executing startxfce4 failed" error out of the way

lastly, some [section header] 's in your gdm.conf-custom are commented out (#) but the statements in it are not. remove those or put # in front of them, because they mess op the file's syntax

if by know you have a normal desktop functional, you can start thinking about adding features or installing/upgrading specific video drivers etc.

note: most of these commands will require sudo. I tend to use a Root Terminal for this type of work, so I always forget to mention sudo.

---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-24
Dear **koenn**, here are the latest developments on the matter: :)
First of all, changing resolution doesn't have any effect on the login problem. Yet, thanks to your accurate observation regarding **gdm.conf-custom** I took the necessaty steps and I think now I have a fully working aiglx driver. Here're the changes> [servers]
1=aiglx

[server-aiglx]
name=aiglx server
command=/usr/bin/Xorg-air :1
flexible=true I remember reading something in a tutorial a few months ago that unlike **nvidia** which uses default display 0 **ati** has a default display 1 Why is that I cannot say.

On the other hand, could someon please explain to me the bolded line in this quote ? > Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
**Screen "Default Screen" 0 0**
Thanks. :)

In the end, let me reassure you that **xfce **is removed and **gdm** is installed as default display manager.

---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-28
Having more pressing issues I decided to take a big gamble and install a fresh Ubuntu, Edgy version. To my surprise, i realised that the only way i could get into live cd's GUI was having the Bluetooth/Intel Wireless card switch turned on. The install sequence went fine, the only thing that didn't work being the **Remove disc and press Enter...** stuff at the end of the shutdown sequence when exiting the live cd after the install. I was forced to manually turn off and then back on the laptop.

I'll just mention here that prior to instalation I dealt with the partitioning issues described above from Windows, and my current layout, as far as Ubuntu is concerned, has **sda5 -/home** **/sda6-/** **sda7-/swap**.

Now, the following issues appear:

1: Ubuntu hangs indefinetly at boot time after completing 6 blocks of the graphical startup progress bar. I was forced to shutdown manualy several times, and several times the control alt del sequence shut down and the rebooted the system, in a very peculiar way. Somehow, following a Ctrl Alt Del or a lucky combination that happened to occur, I got into Login screen. At that point, I could't log in but I managed to get in a failsafe xterm, where I realised that **/home** or **/sda5** was NOT mounted. I issued **sudo mount -a**, exited and the loging into **Gnome** was finally possible. I applied all the updates available and installed **autofs** package.

2: To my surprise, I realized that ALL the services appearing in **System-Administration-Services** were deselected, for reasons that escape my knowledege. I suspect that this is an error. Although I specifically selected AutoFS, after a required reboot following as a result of applying Synaptic updates, the whole story happened again, with the **/home ** not being mounted and the freezing sequence.

I suspect the kernel available in Edgy to have an issue to my particular architecture. The strange thing is that Dapper was working fine.

The questions that arise from my experience, as you know it so far, would be:

1: How can we see the logging output of the boot sequence ? I think it might be usefull in troubleshooting the problem.
2: Why are there no more consoles while booting ?
3: What can be done regarding the **deselected services** issue.

Thanks.

If needed, here's my **/etc/fstab**
> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sda6
UUID=d60b54ba-af5a-4781-9ed7-fa1e22baf71e /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda5
UUID=4f0c3a6b-66a7-4790-aeae-600d8a5be961 /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/sda1
UUID=0AB0B1C0B0B1B315 /media/sda1/Windows ntfs    defaults,nls=utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0       1
# /dev/sda2
UUID=9d571a82-6d19-4e5d-b8da-eaa5757db206 /media/sda2/Fedora ext3    defaults        0       2
# /dev/sda7
UUID=a2d5aa25-c7bf-40c0-a80d-92608d33ea7d none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto     0       0


---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-28
Also, could someone please explain it to me why is that kernel 2.6.17-10-generic is better than "obsoleted" 2.6.17-10-686-smp ?

---

### Post by koenn on 2006-12-29
> **Nokia said:**
> Also, could someone please explain it to me why is that kernel 2.6.17-10-generic is better than "obsoleted" 2.6.17-10-686-smp ?

where did you get that , and who called it obsoleted.
th my knowledge, these are just the same kernel but compiled with different options to optimize for certain hardware or specific purpuses

---

### Post by koenn on 2006-12-29
> How can we see the logging output of the boot sequence ? I think it might be usefull in troubleshooting the problem
remove the 'usplash'  (and maybe 'quiet') from the ubuntu entry in /boot/grub/menu.lst. You'll see output of all actions in the boot procedure so you can see where it hangs. 

you can also try dmesg or look at /var/log/syslog

---

### Post by koenn on 2006-12-29
> What can be done regarding the deselected services issue.
don't fix this untill your system is booting normally again. Could be it's jyst something that went wrong in the startup procedure (e.g. D-BUS did not start properly)

---

### Post by koenn on 2006-12-29
> Why are there no more consoles while booting ?
what do you mean ?

---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-29
First, **Ctrl+Alt+F1throughF6 ** aren't operational at all.
The **obsoleted** part is quoted from Synaptic.

I managed to understand what the issues are after extensive tinkering with the new OS.
For a very strange reason, regardless of weather I'm booting the live cd or the hard-drive, if the Bluetooth/Intel wireless card switch is OFF, it freezes at the first two orange rectangles. If the switch is ON, then Grub loads, and when selecting the generic kernel it hangs at the 6th orange rectangle. If i press **Ctrl+Alt+Del** at that moment, something happens and I get the login screen. From that point on, the /home partition not being mounted, I have to select failsafe xterm session, issue **sudo mount -a & exit** and afterwards all goes as it should. I am able to log into Gnome without problems.

The few capital questions remain:
1: Why is that **any and every** service in System-Administration-Services is **Deselected** ? Moreover, why the settings I select in this panel aren't saved ? If it would be saved, then the automounting feature would work as expected and in the login screen I could get into Gnome without looking first for a  failsafe xterm to issue mount commands.

2: What puzzles me most is that Dapper boots without problems regardless of weather I'm using the Live CD or the normal HDD boot. (I'm referring here at the moment when I had Dapper installed)

3. I have the latest Dell bios, upgraded twice since the purchasing time in july, if anyone might think that the kernel might stuck in something related to a defective Bios or laptop. So I guess that issue can be rulled out. :) Windows XP runs very well, and I was expecting more from Edgy although Dapper did a very good job. :|

All in all, as long as I managed to understand Edgy's intricate booting sequence, I guess I could live with that untill the next version of Ubuntu appears next year. The more serious problem, as I see it, would be the **Services** issue, and I would appreciate any help on the matter.

Thanks **koenn** for your input :)

---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-29
So far so good :) Removing **quiet** gave me a more clearer perspective, so now it seems to be a problem with the filesystem. I'll do a search on the forum tomorrow to find the right steps to fix it. Right now I know only that the filesystem must not be mounted when doing that. I don't understand, though, why this filecheck doesn't start automatically like it did at a certain number of booting sessions.

---

### Post by Nokia on 2006-12-29
Also, I removed **splash** and now I have a splendid, more detailed error on my screen. Here's the output of **/var/log/fsck/chkfs**: > 
$ less /var/log/fsck/checkfs

Log of fsck -C -R -A -a
Sat Dec 30 02:03:39 2006

fsck 1.39 (29-May-2006)
/dev/sda5: clean, 6175/1925760 files, 130388/3849567 blocks
/: Resize inode not valid.

/: UNEXPECTED INCONSISTENCY; RUN fsck MANUALLY.
        (i.e., without -a or -p options)
fsck died with exit status 4

Sat Dec 30 02:03:39 2006
----------------
/var/log/fsck/checkfs (END)


Any tips before messing with the filesystem ?

---

### Post by koenn on 2006-12-30
I already suspected you might have a disk, partition or filesystem error.
The service-admin that shows the 'deselcted" services is propably just a graphical representation of startup scripts and their symlinks in the startup directories, so if they show   up "deselected" that would mean the symbolic links that start the scripts according to te runlevel you boot to, are either missing or can not be read. 

Besides that : gdm usually crashes when the account has no /home, that's why gnome works again after you manually mount /home. Your fstab looks OK as far as I can see, so maybe /home doesn't mount because / has problems. 

I expect that fixing the filesystem is gonna solve quite a few problems - if it works. 
You could first try to run fsck when rebooting, by giving -F to the shutdown command
```

shutdown --help
shutdown -r -F now

```
but probably you'd have to boot to recovery mode and remount read-only to be able to perform repairs. look at man fsck ; probably the -r option (interactive) is a good choice.

---

