---
title: "11.04 does not load, just to screen of text."
date: 2011-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ssoRRoss on 2011-05-13
Hello
I just upgraded my Ubuntu from 10.04 or something similar, to 11.04.
When I click on it from the grub menu it comes up with a little Ubuntu sign and 5 dots underneath. 
Then the screen flashes periodically with lots of text. In a few seconds  the text stops flashing and shows a list of things that have been  started and a thing at the side saying [  OK  ] or [fail]
The little bit at the bottom flashes and nothing seems to happen.

How can I load Ubuntu, I must have done something wrong? Help would be  much appreciated. As you have probably guessed I am quite an idiot when  it comes to things like this. Sorry! ):

I am currently dual booting with Windows 7, but I don't think that matters (:

Thank you!

---

### Post by ghostborg on 2011-05-13
You could try booting in safe graphics mode.
Graphics/drivers seem to be the culprit most of the time.

Look over this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1744681]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1744681")

Look at Entry #14 Peter.Stonecat


I did an upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 and did not like Unity so I logged out and logged in with Ubuntu classic and my machine would no longer boot.

I'm sure someone will come along and help you.

This is what I try to do when I give up:
If all else fails and you need to install, select the custom partitioning during the install and select your existing partitions for / root, swap and /home and make sure home is not check boxed to format. This will retain your home directory as is but not the programs you have loaded in the past.

If you have all your data backed up then a fresh install would be best. Don't forget your browser bookmarks!

---

### Post by varunendra on 2011-05-14
> **ghostborg said:**
> You could try booting in safe graphics mode.
Graphics/drivers seem to be the culprit most of the time.

Look over this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1744681](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1744681)

Look at Entry #14 Peter.Stonecat.......
......
+1

There seem a lot of people having graphics troubles with Natty. Try safe graphics option in recovery mode.

@ssoRRoss,
Did you upgrade from within the previous version (through update manager) or made a fresh install? Upgrading through update manager is not recommended since it more than often causes serious problems. The recommended method is to first try the new version using a Live CD to make sure your hardware supports it, then, if everything seems ok, make a fresh install using the same CD.

And yes, dual booting has nothing to do with your problem. Also, if you are able to even use ubuntu, you are much above the level of an average user, let alone the level of idiots ;). If you doubt this, you are yet to meet the real ones...:popcorn:

---

