---
title: "9.10 LiveCD hangs"
date: 2009-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by manthony121 on 2009-11-01
I am running 8.04.3 and want to try 9.10.  The CD checks out OK, but when I try to boot, it hangs with a blank screen with a blinking cursor in the upper left corner.  Using the boot options "acpi=off" and eliminating "quiet" and "splash", I get a listing during the boot process: it repeatedly prints "ata6: link slow to respond" and "ata6: SRST failed" and never goes further.

I remember when I installed 8.04, I had to include "irqpoll" as a boot option to get it to work.  I wonder if this is related?

lshw:  Mobo: Intel D975XBX2, Disp: ATI Radeon X1900, HDD: Seagate ST3320620NS

---

### Post by MichiganMan on 2009-11-01
On more than on occasion I've experienced something like this from a corrupted ISO or flaky CD burn.  Try downloading a fresh copy, maybe off bittorent and then use Verify Local Data in bittorrent.  After that I always make sure I lower my Write Speed to 32x or so when I burn it.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-01
agreed with the above poster. Though it wouldnt hurt to check for an updated bios. irqpoll is only needed to work around crappy bioses and broken firmware. Your sig states you have an intel board, they usually do a decent job with the bios, but check if there isnt a newer one.

---

### Post by manthony121 on 2009-11-01
> **MichiganMan said:**
> On more than on occasion I've experienced something like this from a corrupted ISO or flaky CD burn.  Try downloading a fresh copy, maybe off bittorent and then use Verify Local Data in bittorrent.  After that I always make sure I lower my Write Speed to 32x or so when I burn it.

I used bittorrent to download the iso.  I did not specify --triple_check=1, but the md5sum on the downloaded iso file is correct. Also, the CD checks out OK on my Desktop system (which won't boot it), and my laptop boots it just fine.  Would it still be worth downloading/burning a new copy?  It seems to me the problem is with my Desktop, not the disk.

---

### Post by manthony121 on 2009-11-01
FWIW, I forgot to mention that the HDDs are all SATA type, with a Marvell SATA controller built into the Mobo:  

description: SATA controller
product: 88SE6145 SATA II PCI-E controller
vendor: Marvell Technology Group Ltd.

---

### Post by MichiganMan on 2009-11-03
It would be worth it only in that it is such an easy possibility to eliminate, merely a little bandwidth, a little time, and a CD.  And if it doesn't work you can distribute the extra CD.  :)

Other than that, sorry, keep watching the forums for a similar problem.  :/

---

### Post by bmbufalo on 2009-11-03
I have this exact same problem when I try to do a fresh clean install 9.10.  I select at the boot menu to try to boot to the the Live CD portion and nothing happens.  I am trying to install the amd64 version which I downloaded off BitTorrent.  I didn't check the md5 but I burned it twice and neither worked. I'm going to double check and re download and try it in my laptop (didn't think to boot it there...doh!) tonight but I'm glad it's not just me.  I've installed previous versions just fine using various methods (Wubi, Vitrual Box, fresh installs and upgrades) and never had this much trouble.  I'll post if I'm successful.  Any tips?

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-04
check your bios, somewhere in IDE/SATA settings and disable AHCI (or enable IDe mode for sata cdrom) if you can.

If you cant do that, try installing from a usb stick.

---

### Post by bakshi.hrishikesh on 2009-11-04
I am also facing the same problem with 64-bit version.
There are bugs filed in launchpad with no responses.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/459937](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/459937)

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-04
Most likely explanation is a bad cd. Did you try the cd in a different machine? Did you try booting from USB?

---

### Post by manthony121 on 2009-11-05
Curiouser and curiouser...I had a chance to play with my system a bit yesterday, and discovered that you can actually get to BIOS to hang after the POST, just by making unwise changes in the settings.  It's good to have a second computer that allows you to look up how to put the BIOS into "maintainence mode", so you can change things back.

Anyway, it turns out that my Desktop DOES boot the 9.10 LiveCD, it just takes a loooooooooong time to give up trying to get "ata6" to respond.

My BIOS has a setting for SATA/IDE, which was already set to "IDE".  When I changed it to AHCI, I re-discovered the problems I had with 8.04 not booting:  the first error message is that ata6.00: failed to IDENTIFY (I/O error, err_mask=0x4).  After that it eventually winds up in busybox with a initfs prompt.  So, I change back to IDE, and 8.04 boots OK, but 9.10 gives the same error messages: failed to IDENTIFY, etc, etc.  Eventually, however, it gives up and I get to a desktop.

I have not yet made a careful map of settings and error messages, but I will work on that this weekend.  For now, I can boot 9.10 by setting the BIOS to "IDE", removing "quiet" and "splash" from the command line, and adding irqpoll, and being *very* patient.

---

### Post by Larry Linux on 2009-11-05
Unfortunately, this is a big problem with many laptop installations using 9.10. There seems to be an Xorg problem relating to ACPI, particularly with ATI graphics and Intel.

What you need to do is the following...

When booting the live CD, when you reach the point where it asks if you want to install or run the live CD,...do this.

Press enter on F-6

In the right corner you will see "acpi=off"

Highlight "acpi=off" using the checkmark. This will turn off ACPI

The CD should then boot as normal.

But as a caution, turning off ACPI can mess with the power management of your computer and the cooling fan. Turning off ACPI is not meant to be a long term solution, but only a test. At this point, unless the bug is fixed, I would recommend using 9.04.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-05
have you guys checked for a newer BIOS?
If you need irqpoll and certainly acpi=off those are things that can and ought to be tackled in bios updates. Give it a try and/or bug dell about this.

As a workaround for those that have trouble getting the cd booting, I would suggest trying a USB stick

---

### Post by Larry Linux on 2009-11-05
This problem is not a Dell specific problem, as I've tested a few others including HP and Toshiba.

And although I've yet to try with a USB stick, I have tried the install inside Windows using the Wubi installer, and the problem is still there. If it's an Xorg problem, or possibly a driver not being recognized, using a USB stick probably won't make a difference anyway.

---

### Post by manthony121 on 2009-11-06
I was able to do some testing last night.  The first thing that I did was to update the BIOS.  Intel now provides a BIOS ISO file that you can burn to CD, boot from it, and it flashes the new BIOS for you.

The new BIOS fixed the old problems with 8.04.  I can now set the BIOS Drives Configuration: "Configure SATA as" to AHCI (it had to be set to IDE before), and I was able to eliminate "irqpoll" from the boot options, and still have 8.04 boot without a problem.  9.10, however, still generates a lot of messages about "ata6.0: failure to IDENTIFY...".  It eventually does boot, but takes a long time, and once it is running, it doesn't list one of the drives on an "fdisk -l" command.  The missing drive is the one the BIOS shows as being connected to the Marvell RAID port.  The Marvell BIOS is dated 2006; I will look to see if there is an update from them that might help.

---

