---
title: "New 10.04 &quot;Bluetooth restrictions&quot; are absolutely idiotic"
date: 2010-05-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by duckdown on 2010-05-20
So who is the genius at Ubuntu that now requires you to "grant access" to your own bluetooth keyboards and mice?

I can't even move around my system with my wireless keyboard because this stupid message keeps coming up asking me to grant or deny access

WHY WOULD I DENY MY OWN KEYBOARD AND MOUSE ACCESS? 

Do you not see what an annoyance this is?

And on top of it all, even if I choose "Grant" and "Allow access forever" the stupid message STILL keeps popping up every 2 seconds.

My Logitech DiNovo Edge keyboard is officially useless in this distro, and whoever implemented this ridiculous change deserves a slap in the face.

Ubuntu is turning into Windows, only worse.  Even MS wouldn't deny your own keyboard & mouse access to its own PC

How the hell do I fix this?  No matter what I do, I can't get this keyboard/mouse working even after choosing "Grant"

Way to screw things up..  Serves me right for upgrading.

Useless.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-05-20
That is apparently a fix(?) for an earlier bug report that broke Logitech for most of us in 10.04.  I also have a diNovo Edge keyboard/mousepad.

If you have a wired keyboard to use temporarily, simply comment out the 2 Logitech lines line this in **/lib/udev/rules.d/70-hid2hci.rules**:

```
# Logitech devices
#KERNEL=="hiddev*", ATTRS{idVendor}=="046d", ATTRS{idProduct}=="c70[345abce]|c71[34bc]", \
#  RUN+="hid2hci --method=logitech-hid --devpath=%p"
```Or instead of that you could just change "hiddev*" back to "hidraw*" which worked previously in 9.10.  Either method worked for me.

Unplug your diNovo dongle, plug it back in, and away you go.

---

