---
title: "Nvidia 9600GT low-resolution problem"
date: 2008-09-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by genconcu on 2008-09-22
Hi, I've bought a new computer, with an Nvidia 9600GT graphics card and an LG 22'' WS LCD monitor (which has a native resolution of 1680x1050) . I installed Ubuntu, then I installed the Nvidia Graphics Driver (173.14.12)via Envy; but when I restarted Ubuntu, the resolution was 640x480. To make matters worse, neither the screen resolution option in Ubuntu nor Nvidia settings showed any resolution option higher than 640x480. Then I uninstalled the drivers, downloaded the latest drivers from Nvidia's website and installed them manually using the walkthroughs on the web. Again, no luck; installing drivers manually also left me with 640x480 as the highest resolution option. I want to set the resolution to 1680x1050, but I'm stuck at this point since I'm a Linux newb. Here is my xorg.conf file after the installation for your reference:

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Thu Jul 17 18:39:19 PDT 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "tr"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

I've tried that "sudo dpkg-reconfigure..." command, but then xorg.conf returns to "nv" drivers (with a 1240x768 resolution), so this does not help either. I'd really like to be able to use Ubuntu with my native resolution, so please help me to overcome this problem :( Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by genconcu on 2008-09-22
Another thing is that nvidia settings application recognizes my LCD monitor as a CRT monitor. It says something like "CRT monitor 640x480" on the tab where screen resolution is adjusted. Is this related to the problem? If so, how can I change the settings so that Ubuntu recognizes my monitor as LCD and not CRT?

---

### Post by newtype06 on 2008-10-20
I am having the same problem. No idea what to do. Seems that nvidia-settings sees the card and the monitor properly. Low rez blows...

---

