---
title: "9.04 &amp; Open Office 3.0 Printing Error - Printing Really Small"
date: 2009-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jetsurgeon on 2009-05-31
Hello,

I've got a Open Office 3.0 printing error, in which I can't figure out.

When I print a file with the text editor (gedit) the printed output is the correct size.   But when I print the same file in Open Office 3.0, the printed output is so freaking small, it's like a thumbnail of the entire sheet.

Also I've tried the Open Office 3.0 Spread Sheet application, and the printing error of small output is consistent with Open Office 3.0 Writer.


Any ideas as to why Open Office does this?   Is there a setting somewhere that needs changed?

Thanks,

Jeff



---- Machine ----
Formatted drive, new installation of Ubuntu 9.04
Applied Ubuntu 9.04 & Open Office Updates
Open Office v. 3.0.1 - Build 9379
Epson Stylus CX5000 Printer
------------------

Below are the scanned images of the same printed file.



-----  Open Office 3 Output Below --------


[IMG]http://eastmiddleton.com/public_web_images/printingerrors/openoffice3.0.gimp2.jpeg[/IMG]


------ gedit Output Below ------


[IMG]http://eastmiddleton.com/public_web_images/printingerrors/gedit.gimp2.jpeg[/IMG]

---

### Post by expelledboy on 2009-06-01
Hmm.. Try this.

```
Ctrl+P
Alt+I
```
Make sure it is A4..

I cant think of anything else? Wait..

```
Alt+O
Alt+P
```
Go to the *Page* tab and make sure the Format is set to A4 aswell.

Hope that helps. ):P

---

### Post by jetsurgeon on 2009-06-05
> **expelledboy said:**
> Hmm.. Try this.

```
Ctrl+P
Alt+I
```
Make sure it is A4..

I cant think of anything else? Wait..

```
Alt+O
Alt+P
```
Go to the *Page* tab and make sure the Format is set to A4 aswell.

Hope that helps. ):P

Hello,

I tried the suggestions you mentioned, I'm still in the same boat, didn't fix it.

Any other ideas?

Thanks,
Jeff

---

### Post by jetsurgeon on 2009-06-06
Update....

Also noticed when I try to print out of Mozilla Thunderbird, I get same error, super small print, just like above.

Boy this is frustrating...... 

Jeff

---

### Post by expelledboy on 2009-06-08
Sorry for the late reply. No excuses.

Well that does help! Now you just have to find what is common to both programs and change it. :D

Unfortunately I dont have Thunderbird installed to do this for you..

Have you tried reinstalling openoffice? Usually I would give you a command to reinstall the whole thing from the terminal, but not this time.
[LIST]
[*]go Applications >> Add/Remove..
[*]uninstall all the openoffice packages keeping note of what they were
[*]go System >> Administration >> Computer Janitor
[*]cleanup your system
[*]install the openoffice packages that you previously uninstalled
[/LIST]
The Reason I have done it this way is openoffice is not a simple package. It is more of a suite and a M$ click click click approach is needed. ;)

---

