---
title: "Compiz issues PLEASE HELP : ("
date: 2008-11-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-11-28
I'm helping a friend out with his computer. The problem started out a week ago with compiz running so slow that it was unbearable and this was with almost everything in cssm shut off. 
At first I figured it was something wrong with xgl and tried upgrading to intrepid from hardy. Now I can't even turn on compiz. 

The compiz-check read out looks like: 
> Gathering information about your system...

Distribution: Ubuntu 8.10
Desktop environment: GNOME
Graphics chip: Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)
Driver in use: intel
Rendering method: AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

Checking for texture_from_pixmap... [FAIL]
Checking for non power of two support... [FAIL]
Checking for composite extension... [ OK ]
Checking for FBConfig... [FAIL]
Checking for hardware/setup problems... [SKIP]

At least one check had to be skipped:
Error: Unable to detect maximum 3D texture size
xorg.conf file looks like:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Boardname "Intel 845"
Busid "PCI:0:2:0"
Driver "intel"
Screen 0
Vendorname "Intel"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
Vendorname "Plug 'n' Play"
Modelname "Plug 'n' Play"
modeline "1024x768@85" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
Gamma 1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
Defaultdepth 24
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Virtual 1024 786
Modes "1024x768@85"
EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Default Layout"
screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
Load "glx"
Load "GLcore"
Load "dri"
Load "v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

I'm at a total loss here so any help at all is very much appreciated.

---

### Post by Usufruct on 2008-11-28
Have you removed and re-installed compiz yet?  That's my favorite place to start when I'm having compiz issues.

---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-11-28
I did under hardy but not intrepid yet. Since it didn't work in hardy I assumed it wouldn't in intrepid but ... Is there a good chance?

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-28
> I did under hardy but not intrepid yet. Since it didn't work in hardy I assumed it wouldn't in intrepid but ... Is there a good chance?
I've read in another thread that it worked, so you might want to give it a try.
Here's also a link to forlong's blog that you might find useful:
[http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/2007/8/29/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion](http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/2007/8/29/How-to-set-up-Compiz-Fusion)

---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-11-28
O.k. It'll probably be tomorrow before I get back over to his place. I'll pass the terminal commands to remove and then re-install compiz on to him and post the results as soon as I hear back.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-28
Good luck. See you on the other side.

---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-11-28
I just ran over there quick- didn't think my wife would let me. It didn't work I still get the same results from compiz check and when I try to turn compiz on from System>Preferences>appearance it pops up a little window that says searching for drivers and then tells me that it could not enable desktop effects.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-29
> I just ran over there quick- didn't think my wife would let me. It didn't work I still get the same results from compiz check and when I try to turn compiz on from System>Preferences>appearance it pops up a little window that says searching for drivers and then tells me that it could not enable desktop effects.
Go to: **Main Menu > System > Administration > Hardware Drivers**.What do you see there?

---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-11-29
There aren't any listed.

---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-11-29
But there weren't before compiz went haywire either.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-29
Don't worry. That just means you've got an onboard graphic card.
I'm sorry I can't think of anything else to help you at the moment...

---

### Post by Yathi on 2008-11-30
Even i have almost the same problem. The output of compiz-check is similar and nothing in the hardware drivers. Everything was running perfectly in hardy. Morning i upgraded to intrepid and i am not able to enable any desktop effects. :(

---

### Post by ellalan on 2008-11-30
Try installing simpleCCSM in synaptics that will enable to use Extra or custom settings in System->Appearance->visual effects. HTH.

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-11-30
**zieglerj**, next time you get to the machine, please post the output of
```
dpkg -l | grep 'fglrx\|nvidia'
```

---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-11-30
I sent him a message to try it and post the results here, but he doesn't have a nvidia card.

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-11-30
> **zieglerj said:**
> I sent him a message to try it and post the results here, but he doesn't have a nvidia card.
I know ;)
But he may have installed a wrong driver that is causing this.

---

### Post by winkeljames on 2008-12-01
jim@ubuntu:~$ dpkg -l | grep 'fglrx\|nvidia'
ii  fglrx-amdcccle                             2:8.543-0ubuntu4                                     Catalyst Control Center for the ATI graphics
ii  fglrx-kernel-source                        2:8.543-0ubuntu4                                     Kernel module source for the ATI graphics ac
ii  fglrx-modaliases                           2:8.543-0ubuntu4                                     Identifiers supported by the ATI graphics dr
ii  nvidia-173-modaliases                      173.14.12-1-0ubuntu4                                 Modaliases for the NVIDIA binary X.Org drive
ii  nvidia-177-modaliases                      177.80-0ubuntu2                                      Modaliases for the NVIDIA binary X.Org drive
ii  nvidia-71-modaliases                       71.86.04-0ubuntu10                                   Modaliases for the NVIDIA binary X.Org drive
ii  nvidia-96-modaliases                       96.43.09-0ubuntu1                                    Modaliases for the NVIDIA binary X.Org drive
ii  nvidia-common                              0.2.4                                                Find obsolete NVIDIA drivers
ii  nvidia-kernel-common                       20051028+1+nmu2ubuntu2                               NVIDIA binary kernel module common files
ii  xorg-driver-fglrx                          2:8.543-0ubuntu4                                     Video driver for the ATI graphics accelerato
jim@ubuntu:~$ dpkg -l | grep 'fglrx\|nvidia'

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-12-01
You have the proprietary driver for ATI cards installed.
Remove it completely:
```
sudo apt-get purge xorg-driver-fglrx fglrx*
```
Then **reboot** and try again.

---

### Post by winkeljames on 2008-12-01
Seemed to work. Compiz check switched to: 
> Gathering information about your system...

 Distribution:          Ubuntu 8.10
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         Intel Corporation 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device (rev 01)
 Driver in use:         intel
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [ OK ]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [ OK ]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [ OK ]


But I still cant start compiz. The terminal output is:

> Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Blacklisted PCIID '8086:2562' found 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 



---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-12-02
There you go. Your card is blacklisted in 
/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist-watchdog

> 
blacklist i8xx_tco


Not 2 hard to guess how to remove it from the blacklist, tho, bear in mind, it's probably blacklisted for a good reason. So better read on, you won't be the only one with this problem. Maybe you'll be able to work around it somehow or so, or maybe someone else already found a way to do so.

---

### Post by zieglerj on 2008-12-02
But it was working before. How could it just suddenly become blacklisted?

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-12-02
> **winkeljames said:**
> But I still cant start compiz. The terminal output is:
Please run the latest version of Compiz-Check I uploaded yesterday.

---

