---
title: "11.04 display doesn't work."
date: 2011-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DaveGiant on 2011-05-22
Not sure how to explain it.. if I line up my screen perfectly with the light it absorbs just about enough light to make out the outline of the login screen.. seems like the pixels are setting the right colors but the light in the screen isn't turning on if that is possible.

If I enter the GRUB menu and load 2.6.35-28-generic it works fine.. the latest doesn't though... so the question.

1) How do I fix this for the latest version?

- or -

2) How do I auto-load the 2.6.35-28-generic version permanently?

---

### Post by DaveGiant on 2011-05-23
Does anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-23
Did this problem exist for you in 10.10? Did you upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 or is this a fresh installation of 11.04?  

Did it have this problem during the live installation disc or live installation usb stick when you were installing it?

---

### Post by DaveGiant on 2011-05-23
This problem didn't exist when using 10.10.

I originally tried to install from an 11.04 disc on a computer previously running Mint. When the install disk went in the screen went dark. As a result I installed 10.10 which works fine. Then added all the updates, then upgraded it to 11.04 thinking that should do the trick.

It didn't.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-23
I didn't have any trouble with the installation of 11.04, but I did have some driver issues that really bugged me. So I rolled back to 10.10, everything is fine now.  Maybe someone else who is a little more familiar with video configuration here can help you.

BUMP

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2011-05-23
Your backlight isn't working. I presume this is a laptop? It is a not uncommon problem with laptops. What kind of laptop is it?

---

### Post by DaveGiant on 2011-05-23
its an unmodified emachines E525.

Just a bit strange how the backlight works fine with Windows / Mint / ubuntu 10.10 but completely fails with 11.04

---

### Post by coldraven on 2011-05-23
I'm just guessing here..
What happens if you hold down the laptop lid switch?
Could it be reverse logic? i.e. Up is off, down is on
If so you could change the power management setting to "Nothing" but you would need a bright light to find it :)

---

### Post by deezer on 2011-05-26
I have the same issue on an eMachines e525 - did the upgrade from 10.10 to 11.04 and I got no display - a totally blank screen on bootup.

Adding i915.modeset=0 to the grub paramaters gets me a display, but its a low-res, VESA display that is not what I want.  

Going back to the older kernel boots up in the correct resolution.

What's going on here?

---

### Post by deezer on 2011-05-26
All I need to do is just hold a flashlight while I am working, and all is well :popcorn:

---

### Post by reauxbeauxboy on 2011-06-26
Many people are having this issue with the emachines 525... If you search the forum for "emachines 525" there's an answe (sorry can't think of it right now) that A) starts in nomodeset -- which makes it possible to install, then uses some kernel update to change the internal kernel to 'flip' the brightness buttons or something .., has to do with he on-keyboard Function controls for the screen.

---

