---
title: "2.2tb Raid 5 only showing 500gb after power failure"
date: 2008-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by juise on 2008-01-08
Hi,
So I setup 7.10 server with a software raid 5 last week and everything has been fine untill yesterday. After a power failure the system came up without the raid 5. I recreated the array and rebooted and now the system does the md: array md0 already has disks! infinate loop. If i boot to recovery mode on the CD the array comes up on /dev/md0p1 showing only 500mb instead of /dev/md0 2.25tb. The raid 5 consists of 6 500gb sata drives. Any ideas?

I know I'm missing the all important logs and mdadm details but without the system running (and the fact that its in my basement) those are harder to provide. I can and will get that info. I'm hoping someone has run into this general problem before and has an idea.

Some other details related to this problem. When the system did come up the drives that make up the array weren't recognized  by gparted as ext3 (they came up as unknown partitions). When trying to fsck.ext3 /dev/md0 (or the drives that make it up) I get a bad superblock error.

Also how the hell do I get the graphical loader (loading progress bar) to go away? I tried pressing Esc during boot but it does nothing.

---

### Post by colo on 2008-01-08
I take it you haven't had any valuable data on the array, right?

Individual blockdevices that make up an array don't necessarily have a valid filesystem signature on them (except when doing a RAID1 mirror setup), they contain metadata for md on how to set up the array, followed by the payload of the md-blockdevice that you actually use to generate your filesystem on.

I've set up a few md-RAID-Arrays myself and I'll be happy to help, but you should at least try to provide the following to make that possible to happen:

```

for i in /dev/sd?; do sfdisk -l $i; done
modprobe md
cat /proc/mdstat

```
and provide the output of those above commands here.

You can eliminate the usplash bootup "beautifier" by appending "nosplash" to the kernel's command line.

You should also get an UPS asap if you love your data. APC provides solid and rather cheap models that work very well with GNU/Linux and free software.

---

### Post by juise on 2008-01-08
I got sshd working via the recovery mode on the CD. Hers the output you requested.

Disk /dev/sda: 60801 cylinders, 255 heads, 63 sectors/track
Units = cylinders of 8225280 bytes, blocks of 1024 bytes, counting from 0

   Device Boot Start     End   #cyls    #blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1          0+  60800   60801- 488384001   fd  Linux raid autodetect
/dev/sda2          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sda3          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sda4          0       -       0          0    0  Empty

Disk /dev/sdb: 60801 cylinders, 255 heads, 63 sectors/track
Units = cylinders of 8225280 bytes, blocks of 1024 bytes, counting from 0

   Device Boot Start     End   #cyls    #blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1          0+  60800   60801- 488384001   fd  Linux raid autodetect
/dev/sdb2          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sdb3          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sdb4          0       -       0          0    0  Empty

Disk /dev/sdc: 60801 cylinders, 255 heads, 63 sectors/track
Units = cylinders of 8225280 bytes, blocks of 1024 bytes, counting from 0

   Device Boot Start     End   #cyls    #blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdc1          0+  60800   60801- 488384001   fd  Linux raid autodetect
/dev/sdc2          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sdc3          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sdc4          0       -       0          0    0  Empty

Disk /dev/sdd: 60801 cylinders, 255 heads, 63 sectors/track
Units = cylinders of 8225280 bytes, blocks of 1024 bytes, counting from 0

   Device Boot Start     End   #cyls    #blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdd1          0+  60800   60801- 488384001   fd  Linux raid autodetect
/dev/sdd2          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sdd3          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sdd4          0       -       0          0    0  Empty

Disk /dev/sde: 60801 cylinders, 255 heads, 63 sectors/track
Units = cylinders of 8225280 bytes, blocks of 1024 bytes, counting from 0

   Device Boot Start     End   #cyls    #blocks   Id  System
/dev/sde1          0+  60800   60801- 488384001   fd  Linux raid autodetect
/dev/sde2          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sde3          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sde4          0       -       0          0    0  Empty

Disk /dev/sdf: 60801 cylinders, 255 heads, 63 sectors/track
Units = cylinders of 8225280 bytes, blocks of 1024 bytes, counting from 0

   Device Boot Start     End   #cyls    #blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdf1          0+  60800   60801- 488384001   fd  Linux raid autodetect
/dev/sdf2          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sdf3          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
/dev/sdf4          0       -       0          0    0  Empty
FATAL: Could not load /lib/modules/2.6.22-14-generic/modules.dep: No such file or directory
Personalities : [raid0] [raid1] [raid6] [raid5] [raid4]
md0 : active raid5 sda[0] sdf[5] sde[4] sdd[3] sdc[2] sdb[1]
      2441932480 blocks level 5, 64k chunk, algorithm 2 [6/6] [UUUUUU]

unused devices: <none>

also here is a fdisk -l from md0

sudo fdisk -l /dev/md0

Disk /dev/md0: 2500.5 GB, 2500538859520 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 304006 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x4bf096bc

    Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/md0p1               1       60801   488384001   fd  Linux raid autodetect

I have no idea where "/dev/md0p1" came from. I have always mounted the device as "/dev/md0".

---

### Post by colo on 2008-01-09
Well, it's now possible to have an md-array itself partitioned, which is the way software RAID (even when done thru a controller-specific driver) is usually implemented on Windows platforms - I have never tried a setup like that, but I could imagine the default names of such permissions to follow the pattern /md.+p.+/. That may be the case, since fdisk -l /dev/md0 presents you with a partition table. PC-sytle partitions are limited to 2TB in size; I don't actually know what happens if you exceed them, but it MAY be possible that you get a size of (actualpartitionsize % 2TB), which would explain you having only 500gb available on a 2500gb partition.

Judging from the output you posted, everything seems to be in order with the array itself, however, you should erase its MBR. I'd also advise you to run badblocks in destructive rw-mode on your md-device, and re-create a filesystem on it afterwards (I'd go for XFS, by the way. Or, if you want to stick with ext3, use -T largefile as an mkfs-option). If you don't want to use your impressive array as a single virtual disk/filesystem, DO NOT partition it using fdisk or some other tool like that, but instead educate yourself about LVM2 and use it to manage the available space. That method actually works, and makes everything much more manageable.

Best of luck, have fun! :)

---

### Post by juise on 2008-01-09
> **colo said:**
> Well, it's now possible to have an md-array itself partitioned, which is the way software RAID (even when done thru a controller-specific driver) is usually implemented on Windows platforms - I have never tried a setup like that, but I could imagine the default names of such permissions to follow the pattern /md.+p.+/. That may be the case, since fdisk -l /dev/md0 presents you with a partition table. PC-sytle partitions are limited to 2TB in size; I don't actually know what happens if you exceed them, but it MAY be possible that you get a size of (actualpartitionsize % 2TB), which would explain you having only 500gb available on a 2500gb partition.

Judging from the output you posted, everything seems to be in order with the array itself, however, you should erase its MBR. I'd also advise you to run badblocks in destructive rw-mode on your md-device, and re-create a filesystem on it afterwards (I'd go for XFS, by the way. Or, if you want to stick with ext3, use -T largefile as an mkfs-option). If you don't want to use your impressive array as a single virtual disk/filesystem, DO NOT partition it using fdisk or some other tool like that, but instead educate yourself about LVM2 and use it to manage the available space. That method actually works, and makes everything much more manageable.

Best of luck, have fun! :)

The md0p1 partition didn't exist when the array was functioning normally, and I have no idea how it got there. Also I need to recover the data currently on the array, so I wont be changing the filesystem anytime soon. 

To make sure I have this right, your saying 
Step 1: wipe the MBR on /dev/md0. (i assume this will get rid of the md0p1)
Step 2: run badblocks on md0 in destructive rw mode (never had to use this before)
step 3: run mk2fs on /dev/md0 (I assume this will rebuild the superblock on md0. Will my data be safe? Creating the array I used "mke2fs -j -b 4096 -R stride=16 /dev/md0" I assume I have to use that again or it wont work?)

Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by juise on 2008-01-09
Seeking input from other users as well.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2008-01-09
> **juise said:**
> Seeking input from other users as well.

How did you normally bootup your system, not from the raid5 array?

It seems you could do a forced assemble and it would come back up, if you are doing it from a separate boot drive.

What did you have in your /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf file?

If you have valuable data on the array I would not format, install new filesystem. <sigh>

Most of us have never had experience with array sizes over 2TB. Because of the new drives I guess many more will be using such to store movies, etc. Backup is essential, no matter what.

---

### Post by juise on 2008-01-11
> **fjgaude said:**
> How did you normally bootup your system, not from the raid5 array?

It seems you could do a forced assemble and it would come back up, if you are doing it from a separate boot drive.

What did you have in your /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf file?

If you have valuable data on the array I would not format, install new filesystem. <sigh>

Most of us have never had experience with array sizes over 2TB. Because of the new drives I guess mnay more will be using such to store movies, etc. Backup is essential, no matter what.

The system boots from /dev/hda1

if I do a forced assemble I get a size of 280gb. I really cant believe I'm going to loose all my data from a simple power failure. Say what you want but there is where windows shows its robustness. This box used to be win xp with the software raid 5 hack. It's been through atleast a dozen lock ups and/or powerfailures and never lost a single bit of my data.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2008-01-11
What did you have in your /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf file?

```
gedit /etc/mdadm/mdadm.conf
```

We all learn as we go, usually from each other.

---

### Post by OfficeLinebacker on 2008-02-05
Here's mine:
```

# mdadm.conf
#
# Please refer to mdadm.conf(5) for information about this file.
#

# by default, scan all partitions (/proc/partitions) for MD superblocks.
# alternatively, specify devices to scan, using wildcards if desired.
DEVICE partitions

# auto-create devices with Debian standard permissions
CREATE owner=root group=disk mode=0660 auto=yes

# automatically tag new arrays as belonging to the local system
HOMEHOST <system>

# instruct the monitoring daemon where to send mail alerts
MAILADDR root

# definitions of existing MD arrays
ARRAY /dev/md0 level=raid5 num-devices=4 UUID=e0fd9992:82d2c367:bda83a06:4bf9f3e6

# This file was auto-generated on Wed, 17 Oct 2007 19:03:28 +0000
# by mkconf $Id: mkconf 324 2007-05-05 18:49:44Z madduck $
```

It's been giving me probs lately.

---

