---
title: "12.04 changing keyboard layout"
date: 2012-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Drahnreb88 on 2012-04-29
Hello

Today I have upgraded to 12.04, and I am no longer able to switch between different keyboard layouts. Both layouts I want to use are still present in the panel, but I can't switch between them anymore, neither by using the shortcut not by clicking on them.

I have the same problem on my netbook, where I am using Lubuntu 12.04 (couldn't find the netbook remix).

Also I can't make a screenshot while the drop-down menu of the keyboard icon is active.

---

### Post by MonkeyPaw on 2012-04-29
I don't have much experience with keyboard changing, but perhaps the process was changed in 12.04. Have you messed with the settings in "System Settings...-->Keyboard" and then clicking on Layout Settings?

---

### Post by Drahnreb88 on 2012-04-29
I didn't change anything there. There isn't much to change either.

---

### Post by Drahnreb88 on 2012-04-30
Surely I can't be the only one with that bug? Even though I didn't change anything, I find myself all of a sudden stuck with only a US keyboard.

---

### Post by graabein on 2012-04-30
Same thing happens to me. I have set it to Norwegian but when I type I get English layout. Very frustrating!

---

### Post by jodgi on 2012-04-30
Same thing for me. My norwegian layout is selectable and the keyboard icon shows it`s activated but only US characters appear on screen.

---

### Post by Drahnreb88 on 2012-04-30
I found a temporary fix which also works on my netbook with Lubuntu 12.04

```
sudo setxkbmap -option grp:alt_shift_toggle no,ru
```

However this needs to be repeated every time one logs in.

---

### Post by graabein on 2012-04-30
Thanks, that works. I hope they get this fixed soon!

---

### Post by Zvlwab on 2012-04-30
Try editing /etc/default/keyboard

mine looks like this:
```
# Some comments

XKBMODEL="pc105"
XKBLAYOUT="us"
XKBVARIANT="altgr-intl"
XKBOPTIONS="compose:ralt"

# More comments
```

I think you need to change yours to 

```
XKBMODEL="pc105"
XKBLAYOUT="no,ru"
XKBVARIANT="altgr-intl"
XKBOPTIONS="grp:alt_shift_toggle"
```

You can also specify user specific keyboard options in ~/.Xmodmap
Mine looks like this for example:
```
remove Lock = Caps_Lock
keycode 66 = BackSpace
```

---

### Post by graabein on 2012-05-01
Anyone know if a bug has been posted for this? I can't get into my launchpad account atm...

My **/etc/default/keyboard** on login says:

```
XKBMODEL="pc105"
XKBLAYOUT="no"
XKBVARIANT=""
XKBOPTIONS=""
```

---

### Post by Drahnreb88 on 2012-05-01
> **Zvlwab said:**
> 
```
XKBMODEL="pc105"
XKBLAYOUT="no,ru"
XKBVARIANT="altgr-intl"
XKBOPTIONS="grp:alt_shift_toggle"
```

Thanks, this works partly. After I have changed the file, it worked like it should. Then I logged out and back in again, and once more I have only the English keyboard layout. However the file didn't change back, it's still the way I left it.

---

### Post by graabein on 2012-05-02
Still noone can confirm this is a reported bug?

---

### Post by Zvlwab on 2012-05-03
Changes made to this file are systemwide, not user specific. I think you need to reboot in order to apply these changes or find out which process handles keyboard input and reset that process. (Rebooting is probably easier.)

---

### Post by gspr on 2012-05-05
I'm seeing the same thing. Hopefully I'll have time to file a bug soon. As a workaround, use setxbmap after logging in.

---

### Post by billjoie on 2012-05-08
Thanks for the setxkbmap workaround. It seems related to this bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/995401]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-control-center/+bug/995401")

---

### Post by rcrosado on 2012-05-14
I had the same issue, and finally got it working today by installing another layout, then removing and re-selecting the norwegian from the keyboard layouts in the system settings. It seems that the layout I chose during install didn't really get installed. Still have some problems switching between languages, but at least it's not stuck in english anymore. Hope that helps.

---

### Post by flattop1 on 2012-06-13
Yep..same problem here..

I need to switch between Norwegian,Spanish and English and it is now permanently on Norwegian since my update to 12.04.

The other 2 are available languages are available in the dropdown menu but dont work.

This worked great in previous versions of ubuntu so  hopefully someone can fix this soon.

---

### Post by beansdad on 2012-06-16
I've had a similar problem with my desktop having a US keyboard no matter what I set it to. In frustration I edited /etc/default/keyboard to change the second line from XKBLAYOUT="gb" to read XKBLAYOUT="uk" and rebooted.

I now have an English UK keyboard! Hope it lasts.:P

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2012-07-03
> **beansdad said:**
> I've had a similar problem with my desktop having a US keyboard no matter what I set it to. In frustration I edited /etc/default/keyboard to change the second line from XKBLAYOUT="gb" to read XKBLAYOUT="uk" and rebooted.

I now have an English UK keyboard! Hope it lasts.:P

Here is how my file appears:

```
XKBMODEL="pc105"
XKBLAYOUT="us"
XKBVARIANT=""
XKBOPTIONS=""
```

However, my machine keeps switching my keyboard to Irish and then I have to switch it back to United States.  I wonder how I can entirely delete the Irish profile?  I never told it to install Irish, it came along as a special gift when I installed 12.04 :)

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2012-07-03
> **pbpersson said:**
> 

However, my machine keeps switching my keyboard to Irish and then I have to switch it back to United States.  I wonder how I can entirely delete the Irish profile?  I never told it to install Irish, it came along as a special gift when I installed 12.04 :)

Okay, I went into the keyboard control panel and deleted the Irish profile.  I wonder how that got in there?  :confused:

---

### Post by StigtriX on 2012-08-09
I found a permanent fix if you want to use Norwegian today: use the detect keyboard feature and let Ubuntu find your keyboard layout by following the instructions when installing Ubuntu. Works like a charm: æ ø å :D

---

### Post by ohmysql on 2012-09-23
Wanna know something weird that just worked for me? I closed everything, went to the desktop and pressed CTRL + ALT + F4 and my language bar appeared.

That was weird!

---

### Post by u546 on 2012-11-01
Keyboard Layout  > Options > Key(s) to change layout  > Ctrl+Shift

---

