---
title: "11.10  return to classic fail  and.."
date: 2011-11-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by choochoousmc on 2011-11-03
read a post how to use terminal and enter commands to return to classic.
Typed the command, nothing happened in the terminal (well the command appeared)
Rebooted, did not get the options the poster listed. Still booted into unity.
any other helpful tips to try?   I really hate unity!

After 11.10 install, I shut down. Rebooted with the live disk
used gpartd to repartition drive.   I need secure windows compatibility so reformatted the new partition as NTFS.   It shows up as mounted but is read only.
Tried to change but keeps failing.
says to run chkdsk on it, but terminal says no such command
tried doing list of terminal commands I found in a search from 4 years ago keep getting error  does not exist or: "failed unable to locate theme engine in module_path: "pixmax",
repeats this 3 times.
also ;   attempting to store changes /root/.local/share/recently-used.xbel.L8kv4v
no such file or directory

/etc/fstab    does not show the drive listed at all
so what can I do to convert this to read write
thanks

---

### Post by cbowman57 on 2011-11-03
Did you try any of the commands in this post? [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11419929&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=11419929&postcount=11)

---

### Post by choochoousmc on 2011-11-03
No I had not tried them yet. Thanks for the link.
I will try them tomorrow after a few other housekeeping chores.

Also, I found another post for getting the read write set.
apparently I did it right, as now my sda3  "data" drive in ntfs is now letting
me copy, paste, cut, and create new folders from the menu bar.
Still going to keep data backed up on the windows machine for a while.

Still need to get 11.10 to recognize a usb mounted external hard drive.
Then will backup there instead.

It recognizes a flash drive but not the hard drive.
already installed the ntfs-3g and ntfs config, but so far they aren't working.

---

