---
title: "New computer, same Hard drive. Graphics problems"
date: 2008-12-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by darki3lade on 2008-12-26
Hey guy's, I'm having a bit of an issue here. I don't know a whole lot about computers, but I've been wanting a graphics card for a while now, My dad stumbled across an older frankenstein'd windows computer that his friend wasn't using, the innards actually look pretty new, it's got a nice motherboard and a shiney graphics card, so I figured I'd just switch my hard drive over and run out of this new box.

Well, my first issue was that it started Ubuntu in low graphics mode, so I reconfigured it for my monitor and said ok, but it didn't seem to take, I've gone in and changed it again, but I'm stuck at 800 X 600 resolution, and it dosn't know my monitor or graphics card. I don't have any drivers already installed so I'm kind of lost...

I think the issue is the lack of drivers for my graphics card... but I don't know what kind it is or how to tell, or what kind of drivers to get or even how to get hold of them!

I'm sure this probably has a really simple answer and I'm just missing something but can someone PLEASE help? this giant resolution is driving me nuts! and I'd like to be able to use my newfound Graphics Card!

---

### Post by Sin@Sin-Sacrifice on 2008-12-26
First try sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg 

If that doesn't do anything then at least we have a clean start. Hardware names should be in system>preferences>hardware information From there you can install the correct drivers. Look in there for pci-e or pci or whatever and drop it down. Should say NVIDIA something or ATI somthing... depending on yourt graphics card. Then you can install the correct drivers by googling which ones you need.

---

### Post by darki3lade on 2008-12-26
I tried the command but it just gave me a bunch of stuff about the keyboard. And I can't find Hardware Information under System->Preferences... am I missing something?

---

### Post by Sin@Sin-Sacrifice on 2008-12-26
Yeah... you have to answer the questions that come up after the command is executed. xorg.conf is a file that more or less controls the graphics and other stuff go through the whole thing and see what happens. About the hardware information.... you should have missed it because it's there if you're running a default install of ubuntu.

---

### Post by darki3lade on 2008-12-26
it is a default install, but it's not there. Maybe it has another name? I'm running Hardy Heron 8.04, and when I say it just talked about the keyboard, I mean it literally JUST talked about my keyboard, except for one question about emulating a 2 or 3 button mouse... but it asked/told me NOTHING relating to graphics! I'll take screenshots if you need 'em, but It's not there, and that config isn't doing anything.

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-12-26
just edit xorg.conf manually, you need to find out what kind of GPU you have in that box.

```
lspci | grep VGA 
```
That will tell you what graphics card you have.  You can post that here if you need help installing the drivers and editing xorg.

---

### Post by darki3lade on 2008-12-26
This is what I got back: 01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon RV100 QY [Radeon 7000/VE]

so, where is xorg? do I just use something like sudo gedit xorg.config or something?

and do I just start googling ATI drivers? or am I looking at this wrong?

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-12-27
Ok thats an ATI card, since you're new I recommend installing the driver from the repos

for now install the opensource driver with 
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-video-ati
```

and/or the proprietary driver with

```
sudo apt-get install xorg-driver-fglrx
```
personally I prefer this one because of the performance, but your card is older so perhaps the opensource version is more suitable, you can install both and then choose which to use in your xorg.conf so don't worry.

next lets see what your xorg says now, 
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Paste the results of this command here or attach it as a text file so we can have a look.

---

### Post by darki3lade on 2008-12-27
alright, here's the results:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-12-27
yeah your xorg.conf is screwed up it doesnt even specify a video driver

```
sudo aticonfig --initial
```

this should fix it let me know if it works I have to go soon.  You will need to restart X once you do this, ctrl+alt+backspace and your video should look normal.

---

### Post by darki3lade on 2008-12-27
er, I got this back: 

No protocol specified
Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf
	Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a Driver line.
aticonfig: Parsing the configuration file failed.
The above error messages are reported from XFree86 and may assist you in
diagnosing the problem with your configuration input file. Try use -f option
to generate a new configuration file.


Also, I just found a Radeon 7500 laying around from a while back, should I switch it out after I get my Xorg fixed? is it any better?

---

### Post by blazercist on 2008-12-27
you shouldn't switch the cards unless you feel its necessary they are approximately the same... your real problem is the xorg file being incomplete, the reconfigure command you ran before shouldve straightened it out but for some reason it didn't.  You need someone to give you a working xorg.conf to replace your with.

Mine is heavily editted since im using dual monitors with twinview and an nvidia video card, so mine wont be of any use.  You should try googling for a standard xorg.conf or asking for one in #ubuntu on irc.freenode.net with an IRC client.

once you get a default xorg.conf you just need to change the Driver    "blah" line under the Device section for the video card, you will change "blah" to "fglrx" or "ati" depending on which of the drivers you want to use... "fglrx" for proprietary or "ati" for opensource.  "blah" will probably be "vesa" if its a truly default xorg.conf.  the xorg.conf file is located in /etc/X11/ and you will need sudo to edit it.  sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf should allow you to edit and save.  Good luck. unfortunately I have to turn in for the night.

---

