---
title: "2.6.22-10 low-latency"
date: 2007-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Scheater5 on 2007-09-01
Does anyone know where to find and how to install a low-latency version of the newest kernel?  2.6.22-9 added support for my sound card (FINALLY!  M-audio Audiophile 192) so either 2.6.22-9 or -10 would work.  I verified that the newer kernels work by upgrading to the gusty generic kernel, but I can't do audio work without low-latency.  Real-time would work, but would probably tax my cpu/memory too much.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2007-09-01
I believe that you already have it all in the kernel.

Otherwise google for Andrew Morton's web site.

Cheers,

Herman

---

### Post by southernman on 2007-09-01
With the same Gutsy repos enabled for the kernel upgrade, would a "sudo aptitude search linux-image" help. Doing that on Feisty shows a low-latency kernel... not sure about Gutsy though

---

### Post by Scheater5 on 2007-09-01
There is no low latency kernel in the gusty repos yet.  There are headers for a real-time, but no image last time I checked.  I will check out the Andrew Morton website.

---

### Post by mikaelsnavy on 2007-09-01
I know when I installed ubuntu studio it installed the low-latency kernel for me.

---

### Post by Scheater5 on 2007-09-01
That's correct, mikaelsnavy, but the ubuntu studio repos don't use the most up to date kernel, nor do any of the *buntus for that matter, and for good reason, but my sound card won't work except with some of the most recent kernels.

---

### Post by peterdines on 2008-04-02
So what are the options for getting a low latency or realtime kernel running on Gutsy? Do I have to scrap my Gutsy install and get Ubuntu Studio?

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2008-04-02
This is a old thread, you can find a realtime kernel in synaptic for gutsy (And hardy. I just checked)

Search synaptic for ```
linux-rt
```

---

### Post by peterdines on 2008-04-02
Ah thank you, JB. I was searching in the add-remove app in the application menu and it wasn't listed. When I fired up synaptic, there it was.

Cheers!

---

### Post by sunbird on 2008-05-07
Sorry for the noob question, but I have heard that I may need to use this low-latency kernel to get my USB microphone working in a virtual machine. So, I'm downloading it right now (slow connection). I'm wondering whether there are any down-sides to running a low-latency kernel. I guess I don't really know what it does, other than maybe get my mic working. Would appreciate any helpful pointers.

*Edit:* I found [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=474670") and [this blog post]("http://sevencapitalsins.wordpress.com/2007/08/10/low-latency-kernel-wtf/") that explain a bit about various kernels.

---

