---
title: "9.04: Monitor turns off every 10min"
date: 2009-06-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pgzh on 2009-06-22
Hi,  since I upgraded from Ubuntu 8.10 to 9.04 on my PC, my display turns off every 10 minutes when I'm not moving the mouse or typing on the keyboard. On 8.10 I had Xorg configured to turn the monitor off after 5min of inactivity, and this was automatically disabled when watching videos (with xine). This still works perfectly with 9.04, but something else than Xorg's DPMS settings are messing with my monitor and it isn't disabled when watching videos. Quite annoying issue...what could it be or what config files may be involved in this? I'm not using the gnome window manager but fluxbox instead, so I don't think gnome is the problem here.  Peter

---

### Post by jimv on 2009-06-22
Make sure the screensaver is turned off.  System > Preferences > Screensaver and uncheck the box near the bottom that says "Activate screensaver when computer is idle."

---

### Post by pgzh on 2009-06-22
It was already turned off. Just to be sure I uninstalled gnome-screensaver and xscreensaver including all components. But still, after 10min watching a video my screen turns pitch black. DPMS isn't to blame, cause I set it to 5min and if I'm not watching a video, the monitor turns off after 5min like it should. When watching a video, it's 10min.  What else could it possibly be?

---

### Post by jsoellner on 2009-06-22
Try System->Preferences->Power Management

Make sure the 'Put display to sleep when inactive for:' value is set to 'never' or whatever value you want.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by pgzh on 2009-06-22
It is set to never, doesn't help either...

---

### Post by schmolch on 2009-06-22
gnome-power-manager is very very very buggy.
Currently it works for me in Karmic.
You can fetch the latest version from git and see if it works for you.
You can also start gpm from console --verbose so it will tell you what its doing.

---

### Post by pgzh on 2009-06-23
I unistalled the gnome-power-management as well, didn't help, too.  Have a look at what programs are running on the box (without kernel processes), maybe you see something that might be responsible:  ```
 2442 tty4     00:00:00 getty  2443 tty5     00:00:00 getty  2446 tty2     00:00:00 getty  2448 tty3     00:00:00 getty  2450 tty6     00:00:00 getty  2475 ?        00:00:00 acpid  2514 ?        00:00:00 syslogd  2535 ?        00:00:00 dd  2537 ?        00:00:00 klogd  2558 ?        00:00:00 dbus-daemon  2582 ?        00:00:00 sshd  2656 ?        00:00:00 vsftpd  2678 ?        00:00:00 hald  2681 ?        00:00:00 console-kit-dae  2744 ?        00:00:00 hald-runner  2777 ?        00:00:00 hald-addon-inpu  2826 ?        00:00:00 hald-addon-stor  2828 ?        00:00:00 hald-addon-cpuf  2829 ?        00:00:00 hald-addon-acpi  2830 ?        00:00:00 hald-addon-stor  2851 ?        00:00:00 gdm  2858 ?        00:00:00 gdm  2869 tty7     00:00:59 Xorg  2881 ?        00:01:53 mpd  2928 ?        00:00:00 cupsd  2963 ?        00:00:00 system-tools-ba  3069 ?        00:00:00 atd  3097 ?        00:00:00 cron  3286 tty1     00:00:00 getty  3291 ?        00:00:00 gnome-keyring-d  3304 ?        00:00:00 fluxbox  3444 ?        00:00:00 ssh-agent  3447 ?        00:00:00 dbus-launch  3448 ?        00:00:00 dbus-daemon  3452 ?        00:00:03 gmpc  3453 ?        00:00:09 gkrellm  3489 ?        00:00:00 gvfsd  3496 ?        00:00:00 gvfs-fuse-daemo  3512 ?        00:00:00 gconfd-2  3567 ?        00:00:00 gnome-vfs-daemo  3572 ?        00:00:00 gvfs-hal-volume  3574 ?        00:00:00 gvfs-gphoto2-vo  6255 ?        00:00:00 bonobo-activati  6260 ?        00:00:00 evolution-data-  6292 ?        00:00:00 evolution-alarm
```  PS: Is there any way to display the newlines to make this easier to read in the post?

---

### Post by Electric Bill on 2009-11-06
> **jimv said:**
> Make sure the screensaver is turned off.  System > Preferences > Screensaver and uncheck the box near the bottom that says "Activate screensaver when computer is idle."
Thanks jimv this worked for me with Karmic.
Funny though, I have it installed on 2 machines but it only affected 1.

Bill

---

### Post by brimurray on 2009-11-07
> **pgzh said:**
> Hi,  since I upgraded from Ubuntu 8.10 to 9.04 on my PC, my display turns off every 10 minutes when I'm not moving the mouse or typing on the keyboard. On 8.10 I had Xorg configured to turn the monitor off after 5min of inactivity, and this was automatically disabled when watching videos (with xine). This still works perfectly with 9.04, but something else than Xorg's DPMS settings are messing with my monitor and it isn't disabled when watching videos. Quite annoying issue...what could it be or what config files may be involved in this? I'm not using the gnome window manager but fluxbox instead, so I don't think gnome is the problem here.  Peter


I have exactly the same problem!
I have tried upgrading from 9.04 and a fresh install, both returned the same loss of display after 10 mins. No such problem on any previous builds.
Not the end of the world, but annoying all the same.

---

