---
title: "8.04 to 8.10 upgrade"
date: 2008-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by printer_test_page on 2008-12-28
I'm sorry for a post on what seems like a trivial problem, but here goes. I just upgraded from Hardy to Intrepid and love it so far except for one thing. The new version of the lskat (also called Lieutenant Skat) card game is terrible. I believe it's part of KDE games. Is there a way to reinstall the previous version that came with Hardy Heron. Actually the previous version has been the same for at least four years. Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by itix on 2008-12-29
I don't think so. The repositories has been changed from 8.04 to 8.10 so that would mean that you would need to add the 8.04 repositories and downgrade KDE-games...

naaah, I don't think it is possible. Sorry

---

### Post by howefield on 2008-12-29
It is only a piece of software, there probably is a way if you can find it :) at least to install it, it probably would work with 8.10 but no guarantees.

I'll see if I can find anything.,

---

### Post by howefield on 2008-12-29
[http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/lskat-kde4](http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/lskat-kde4)

Is this the one you want ?

---

### Post by itix on 2008-12-29
Am I stupid or what? Why didn't I think of that? Thank you ubuntu team for keeping a history of all packages online

EDIT; you will however need to uninstall the package and then reinstall via the link the kind (and wise above all) user above provided. One cant very easily downgrade via dpkg (if one now can downgrade packages at all via dpkg).

---

### Post by printer_test_page on 2008-12-30
Thanks for the help. I did try installing the package mentioned and ran into dependency issues. I think the bottom line is I would have to reinstall the previous version of KDE that goes with that package because of dependencies.

---

