---
title: "10.04 - Wine and sound"
date: 2010-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheDesertDragon on 2010-05-24
Hi Ubuntu-folks!

Coming back with this issue now. I am fairly new to Linux and simply don't know what to do.

I've managed to learn that Ubuntu uses PulseAudio, and that it has been broken in previous versions but works well now.
Wine does not use PulseAudio, however, PulseAudio should contain some plugins that makes ALSA or OSS systems work by plugging it into PulseAudio.

I should be able to use this for Wine.
I can't.

I found a seperate repository that contains an alternative, patched version of Wine that happens to work this out for me by simply adding PulseAudio support. However, the newest version of Wine on this repository is 1.1.42, and I'd prefer using the newest, which is formerly 1.1.44 and now 1.2-rc1.

Patching PulseAudio into Wine seems like a decent but very complicated solution, and I've searched around for some patches but they're all outdated or plain don't work.

So here I am:
Sound does not work in Wine.
What can I do?

Sincerely
 - Christian W. Moesgaard

---

### Post by TheDesertDragon on 2010-05-24
Dang, already on 4th page?

I really need help guys, please! :(

Nobody knows what to do?

Bump.

---

### Post by TheDesertDragon on 2010-05-29
...

/bump :(

---

### Post by keithjr on 2010-05-29
This problem seems to bite me every time I upgrade Ubuntu since PulseAudio was enabled.  

What it comes down to is, you need to tell ALSA to forward its output to pulse.  I think.  It's all rather confounding.  

To do so, create a file in your home directory called .asoundrc and populate it with these contents:

```

pcm.pulse {
    type pulse
}
ctl.pulse {
    type pulse
}
pcm.!default {
    type pulse
}
ctl.!default {
    type pulse
}

```

The in a console, enter the command "winecfg" and make sure your Audio is set to ALSA.  Try the sound test.  If you hear a strange wobbly sound, it's working.

---

### Post by lichtenberg on 2010-05-30
Perhaps this might help:    [http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/install-wine-with-built-in-pulseaudio.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2010/05/install-wine-with-built-in-pulseaudio.html)   It did not help myself, though.  Maybe the reason is this BUG in recent wine versions:  [http://bugs.winehq.org/show_bug.cgi?id=21609](http://bugs.winehq.org/show_bug.cgi?id=21609)  Ciao.

---

