---
title: "Does the minimum RAM spec for Edubuntu need to be changed"
date: 2015-01-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mattharris4 on 2015-01-13
I have a question for Ubuntu (and its derivatives) experts.  I have an HP DC7600 desktop computer with an dual core Intel Pentium 4 processor running at 3.00 GHz. Sometimes the processor maxes out but not very often or for very long.  It is a dual boot between XP and Edubuntu 14.04 completely updated but not swapped out for version 14.10.  I use the GNOME interface but do not use Compiz.  I had 2GB of RAM and 2GB of swap space, I was finding with a couple of sites I frequent (SFGate which is the San Francisco Chronicle's website is the worst offender) were triggering swap and when it did so pages would turn grey and freeze for up to a minute before responding to the mouse and were very "balky" to attempt to navigate through due to this issue.  System Monitor was reading 1.6-1.8GB RAM usage and 200-900MB of swap (I have a 2GB swap partition).  I attempted to make the compuuter use the entire 2GB of RAM before using swap by turning down the swappiness to 10 but no matter what the swappiness setting it started balking and using swap at 1.6GB.  At idle the computer uses 1.1-1.2GB of RAM.

Noting the maxing out of RAM I installed 3GB of RAM, swapping out three of the 512MB sticks for 1GB ones (I left the fourth 512MB stick in place as it is directly under the power block and would require removing it to get to the RAM stick).  The sticks are all 240-pin DDR2 PC2-4200 running at 533MHz.  As this is a 32-bit computer in Ubuntu it recognizes 3.2GB of RAM of the 3.5GB actually installed.  This reduced the balkiness of reading SF Gate by about 70% and reduced the time needed to read the page from up to a minute to about ten seconds, the number of balkiness issues is greatly reduced as well with the screen seldom turning grey during these episodes.  At maximum the RAM usage registers 2.3GB with 5-6 tabs open and Rhythmbox playing music; the swap usage is minimal, usually measurable in KB, less than 10MB at all times.  With less RAM-intensive pages such as this forum it uses 1.5-1.6GB of RAM with no swap used.  Swappiness is set at 50.  I use the latest version of Firefox (I think that is version 35).  The computer is set to not run Flash without me telling it to so those pesky videos embedded in some pages do not usually play unless I click on them and tell the computer to play them.  YouTube runs fine for the most part as I installed Chromium to use its updated Flash support, it seems to work in both Chromium and Firefox (Adobe's direct support of Flash is way out of date and won't run YouTube at this time).  I prefer to use Firefox so that is what I usually use to surf the web.

As for other issues that might theoretically cause this the CPU runs at between 35 and 40 degrees Celsius.  The hard drive is 500GB total with 279GB reserved for Windows XP and 215.5 GB for Edubuntu 14.04.  I did not have any issues installing Ubuntu (which was upgraded to Edubuntu later) and dual-boot works fine.  The computer is shut down nightly and used for 8-10 hours a day using Edubuntu, I seldom boot it up into XP anymore.

My experience has me wondering if Canonical needs to update the minimum specifications for Edubuntu and Ubuntu to at least 2.5GB of RAM (from 1GB currently) as my experience with using 200-900MB swap and effectively 1.6-1.8GB of RAM was atrocious to say the least (my impression of the 'Buntu documentation is that swap is commonly used on low RAM computers and at least with previous versions there weren't many complaints) whereas it works much better with 3.5GB (3.2GB registered) RAM.  The above issues started about three or four months ago with a large update from Canonical and the SF Gate redesigning their site (others complain SF Gate is a RAM hog, not just me but since they are owned by Hearst Newspapers which owns several large newspapers in the States and their related websites this will likely become a recurring issue with new users as they "upgrade" their other newspaper sites to this format).  When I first started with Ubuntu in June 2014 the computer used between .9 and 1.5GB RAM depending on the usual factors, swap wasn't heavily used.  It is expected that a full Linux OS would increase slightly in needed resources over the years as technology moves on so I am not going to blame Canonical too much here.

In comparison I also have a new Toshiba computer model C55D-A5163 running a fully-updated version of Windows 8.1 and 4GB of RAM and surfing SF Gate it uses between 1.9 and 2.1GB of RAM so the RAM hog issue with that site also applies to newer Windows computers with usual light use at about 1.2-1.3GB RAM (I feel sorry for all of those tablet users that bought $99 Win 8.1 tablets for Christmas with only 1GB of RAM, a 32GB mSATA mini-SSD and probably found out quickly that they don't have the hardware to get the job done).  Regarding Linux on it (I am sure others are curious) I installed a 64 bit version of Ubuntu 14.04 on a USB stick and tried it on that computer, it seemed to work fine but I only did a limited test.  With a limited test of Lubuntu on USB the sound did not work which surprised me, maybe actually installing that OS and its updates would rectify that issue but I am not installing any OSes on its hard drive other than Windows 8.1 updates, Libre Office, AVG anti-virus, other known programs that don't bring in the possibility of issues like a full OS install would and Toshiba recommended updates until the warranty expires in May.  Wireless worked fine with both Linux OSes.  As far as I can gather nothing is NVIDIA on it (they are notorious for not supporting Linux and Linus Torvalds has some choice unprintable words about that company) so that does not explain why sound did not work using Lubuntu.

---

### Post by mattharris4 on 2015-02-28
I finally bit the bullet and installed Lubuntu on my laptop.  The sound issues are because Lubuntu loads alsamixer with the volume muted.  Here is a link with instructions to fix this issue:  [http://www.unixmen.com/2012003-howto-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu/](http://www.unixmen.com/2012003-howto-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu/) .  Essentially the instructions say to bring up alsamixer by bringing up the terminal and entering "alsamixer" (without quotes) into the terminal.  A screen will come up with a bunch of bars on it. Then move your cursor with the left or right arrow key until you have the MM under "Master" highlighted, then press M to unmute.  Move over with the right arrow key to the next column labeled "Headphon" and repeat.  Do the same for "Speaker".  If any of these are not turned up fully after this use the up arrow to turn them (one at a time) to maximum volume.  

You can also use F6 and then F5 to switch between sound cards.

To exit press Esc.

---

