---
title: "16.04.1 best way to remove/change non-linux partitions?"
date: 2016-09-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-09-21
I removed 2 in windows and so linux changed from sda8 to 5 and so eventually had to rebuild mbr, reinstall grub and boot.  There must be an easier way... ?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-09-21
It is impossible to help you with that limited amount of information, but perhaps that was just a comment and you do not expect a solution?

Tell us in more detail what the partition layout was previously and what it is now and there may be some more useful answers for you, should you have to carry out a similar operation in future.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-09-21
yes, sorry.

```
kris@kris-Z97X-UD3H:~$ sudo blkid
[sudo] password for kris: 
/dev/sda1: LABEL="System Reserved" UUID="01D19CFDF4E8A000" TYPE="ntfs" PARTUUID="ba05e9e7-01"
/dev/sda2: LABEL="Cwin7" UUID="01D196A6161A1280" TYPE="ntfs" PARTUUID="ba05e9e7-02"
/dev/sda5: LABEL="E" UUID="01D195FDD65B0990" TYPE="ntfs" PARTUUID="ba05e9e7-05"
/dev/sda6: UUID="07837b02-87f2-4e55-a13f-b29acc1438d2" TYPE="ext4" PARTUUID="ba05e9e7-06"
/dev/sda7: UUID="b70b2ecb-6006-4d0f-957f-10980d1825e0" TYPE="swap" PARTUUID="ba05e9e7-07"
/dev/sdb1: LABEL="extHG1T" UUID="01D1550FFBB41AD0" TYPE="ntfs" PARTUUID="000bba90-01"
/dev/sdb2: LABEL="work" UUID="c3622f82-eb95-44d8-8308-e8385512f161" TYPE="ext4" PARTUUID="000bba90-02"
/dev/sr0: UUID="1995-10-21-17-33-25-00" LABEL="STONKEEP" TYPE="iso9660"
/dev/sdc5: LABEL="X600GBext" UUID="01D15F7F8FCF2E20" TYPE="ntfs" PARTUUID="655272b9-05"
kris@kris-Z97X-UD3H:~$ 

```

the 2 partitions that I removed were probably 6 and 7. When I removed them, E shifted to 5 and linux became 6 and 7. grub was set to boot 8 (sda8) so apparently on boot it said grub not found or something like that, though it asked me for a grub command which I would have no idea what to give it.  Couldn't boot to win to find out.
So I tried rescatux but it said install of grub failed.  
Tried boot repair (also on a USB flash drive), but it wouldn't start.
I knew I had to redo the MBR so booted a dongle for EaseUS partition manager and did that.
Booted rescatux and now it installed grub correctly.
Booted fine if I recall correctly.

16.04.1 has been a bit squirley to me and I have done 4-5 installs to get by things like vacant ubuntu software, and internet not working right.  I seem to be okay at the moment but fingers crossed and taking frequent CZ partition images and disk images. - because noone seems to know what's causing those things.

Apparently if I add a partition or remove one, things/numbering will all change again, and I was looking for a way to ease this. Only concerned about sda which is an SSD.


EDIT:  I will say that 16.04.1 seems fantastic - like 14.04 only better.  I have had great success with wine in moving old games over from win.  Ideally I would like to get win down to almost nothing.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-09-21
Partitions do not normally change device and UUID extremely rarely change. Primarily reformatting changes UUID.
So grub still should have booted as it primarily uses UUID.

There are commands to reorder partitions, but those normally should not be run.

Also you have new Z97 system, but running in BIOS/MBR mode?
I would have thought you would install in UEFI/gpt mode, but now not really possible to change without major effort.

       GPT Advantages (older 2010 but still valid)  see post#2 by srs5694:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1457901)
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GUID_Partition_Table#Advantages_of_GPT](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/GUID_Partition_Table#Advantages_of_GPT)
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/629470/gpt-vs-mbr-why-not-mbr](http://askubuntu.com/questions/629470/gpt-vs-mbr-why-not-mbr)
UEFI Advantages
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/647303/uefi-or-legacy-which-is-advised-and-why/647604#647604](http://askubuntu.com/questions/647303/uefi-or-legacy-which-is-advised-and-why/647604#647604)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/446968/legacy-vs-uefi-help](http://askubuntu.com/questions/446968/legacy-vs-uefi-help)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-09-21
Thanks, I'll pass on UEFI and GPT for now. btdt. win8.

So who renumbered the partitions?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2016-09-21
If you used Windows to remove partitions, it will renumber them and usually "forget" to include Linux logical partitions. Or only use Windows to resize the Windows NTFS partition.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-09-21
yeah, possibly should have used Linux to remove them...  If I ever have to do that again, that's what I'll try...

---

