---
title: "Unable to activate desktop effects!!!"
date: 2009-01-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nithish on 2009-01-18
Hi!

I'm totally new to Ubuntu and Linux. I have recently install Ubuntu 8.10 as I have got Linux for my college term. I've been reading about Linux and have found it very interesting. I read an article about desktop effects of Linux and I want to enable the desktop effect but when I select normal or extra effects in the change background option it says "Desktop effects not enabled". Please someone help me. I have S3 ProSavage8 [VT8375 KM266/KL266] video card with 32MB of shared memory and VIA Sound card and Intel Pentium 4 processor. Can I enable desktop effects without an internet connection?

Please help me

Thank You in advance!!

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-18
First, try this: [http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Check](http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Check)
This lets your system see if its capable of running Compiz,  If all responses come back "OK", then:

Go to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers, and let your system pick a driver for your vid card.  Once that is done, then you can set your Effects.

Opps, sorry, missed where you stated you do not have an internet connection, be right back.

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-18
Ok, you will have to skip the first step, just try to enable the drivers (no internet connection required)

---

### Post by Nithish on 2009-01-19
ok.. I went to System > Administration > Hardware Drivers but it was completely empty there was nothig in the window that opened is that bad!!

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-19
Do you mean it was just a blank white window ??  Or do you mean it didn't have any options for drivers ??

---

### Post by Nithish on 2009-01-19
It was just a blank window. It did not display any drivers or other  things in it

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-19
Please enter the following in terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal)
```
lspci
```
then post the output in your next post.

Then, try this:
Reboot > during grub splash, hit escape > Recovery mode > Enter (let finish)
Repair Broken Packages > Enter (if it asks about updates hit n) (let finish)
Try to fix X server > Enter (Let finish)
Resume normal Boot > Enter

Then try the Hardware Driver window again.

---

### Post by Nithish on 2009-01-19
ok i entered lspci and this is what i got:



nithish@nithish-desktop:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. P4M266 Host Bridge
00:01.0 PCI bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8633 [Apollo Pro266 AGP]
00:09.0 Ethernet controller: Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL-8139/8139C/8139C+ (rev 10)
00:0b.0 Communication controller: Rockwell International HCF 56k Data/Fax/Voice/Spkp (w/Handset) Modem (rev 01)
00:11.0 ISA bridge: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233 PCI to ISA Bridge
00:11.1 IDE interface: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82C586A/B/VT82C686/A/B/VT823x/A/C PIPC Bus Master IDE (rev 06)
00:11.2 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 1b)
00:11.3 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 1b)
00:11.4 USB Controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT82xxxxx UHCI USB 1.1 Controller (rev 1b)
00:11.5 Multimedia audio controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT8233/A/8235/8237 AC97 Audio Controller (rev 30)
00:12.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6102 [Rhine-II] (rev 70)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-19
hmmmmmmmmm, drivers should have been installed by default.  Can you post a copy of your Xorg.conf file ??  In terminal:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
```
Then:
```
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Nithish on 2009-01-20
nithish@nithish-desktop:~$ sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
[sudo] password for nithish: 
cp: missing destination file operand after `/etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup
Try `cp --help' for more information.
nithish@nithish-desktop:~$ gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf_backup


# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection


nithish@nithish-desktop:~$ glxinfo | grep direct
direct rendering: Yes
nithish@nithish-desktop:~$ glxgears -printfps
Usage:
  -display <displayname>  set the display to run on
  -stereo                 run in stereo mode
  -fullscreen             run in fullscreen mode
  -info                   display OpenGL renderer info
  -geometry WxH+X+Y       window geometry
nithish@nithish-desktop:~$ glxgears -info
GL_RENDERER   = Mesa DRI ProSavageDDR 20061110 AGP 1x x86/MMX/SSE2
GL_VERSION    = 1.2 Mesa 7.2
GL_VENDOR     = S3 Graphics Inc.
GL_EXTENSIONS = GL_ARB_imaging GL_ARB_multisample GL_ARB_multitexture GL_ARB_texture_compression GL_ARB_texture_env_add GL_ARB_texture_mirrored_repeat GL_ARB_transpose_matrix GL_ARB_vertex_buffer_object GL_ARB_window_pos GL_EXT_abgr GL_EXT_bgra GL_EXT_blend_color GL_EXT_blend_logic_op GL_EXT_blend_minmax GL_EXT_blend_subtract GL_EXT_clip_volume_hint GL_EXT_compiled_vertex_array GL_EXT_convolution GL_EXT_copy_texture GL_EXT_draw_range_elements GL_EXT_histogram GL_EXT_packed_pixels GL_EXT_polygon_offset GL_EXT_rescale_normal GL_EXT_secondary_color GL_EXT_separate_specular_color GL_EXT_stencil_wrap GL_EXT_subtexture GL_EXT_texture GL_EXT_texture3D GL_EXT_texture_edge_clamp GL_EXT_texture_env_add GL_EXT_texture_lod_bias GL_EXT_texture_object GL_EXT_vertex_array GL_APPLE_packed_pixels GL_IBM_rasterpos_clip GL_IBM_texture_mirrored_repeat GL_MESA_window_pos GL_NV_light_max_exponent GL_NV_texgen_reflection GL_OES_read_format GL_SGI_color_matrix GL_SGI_color_table GL_SGIS_texture_edge_clamp GL_SGIS_texture_lod
493 frames in 5.0 seconds = 98.476 FPS
764 frames in 5.0 seconds = 152.768 FPS
550 frames in 5.0 seconds = 109.950 FPS
515 frames in 5.0 seconds = 102.992 FPS
1263 frames in 5.0 seconds = 252.508 FPS
944 frames in 5.0 seconds = 188.713 FPS
1969 frames in 5.0 seconds = 393.794 FPS
XIO:  fatal IO error 11 (Resource temporarily unavailable) on X server ":0.0"
      after 5927 requests (5906 known processed) with 0 events remaining.


This is what i got after the two codes

I tried the Steps you told me to do in the Recovery mode but the Hardware drivers window is still empty and at its top it says 
" No Proprietary hardware detected "
Is there still anyway to activate the effects???

---

### Post by gettinoriginal on 2009-01-20
Am I correct in assuming you still do not have an internet connection ??

---

### Post by Nithish on 2009-01-21
yes and i am posting all the details you asked for from a cyber cafe. It takes lot of time for me to write down the results of the codes you give and then type the result back and i'm begining to think that my computer cant activate the effects...

---

### Post by Kevbert on 2009-01-21
As a general rule compiz will only work on ATI, Nvidia and Intel graphics adapters.  In saying that it has been reported that it may work on some S3 cards (but this is very unlikely as S3 don't support 3D graphics acceleration).

---

### Post by bixejo on 2009-01-21
> **Nithish said:**
> Hi!

I'm totally new to Ubuntu and Linux. I have recently install Ubuntu 8.10 as I have got Linux for my college term. I've been reading about Linux and have found it very interesting. I read an article about desktop effects of Linux and I want to enable the desktop effect but when I select normal or extra effects in the change background option it says "Desktop effects not enabled". Please someone help me. I have S3 ProSavage8 [VT8375 KM266/KL266] video card with 32MB of shared memory and VIA Sound card and Intel Pentium 4 processor. Can I enable desktop effects without an internet connection?

Please help me

Thank You in advance!!
Hi, Nithish.

Did you install a 64bit edition? I know there are some issues with these editions, some of them very easy to fix (could be your case).

Please, tell me whether you did install one of these Ubuntu editions.

Also, it would be helpful if you do the following:

1. Post the first twenty or thirty lines of your file /usr/bin/compiz (skipping comments, which are lines beginning with #). You may browse this file using gedit, as you already did with some other files.

2. Try to launch compiz from a terminal and paste here the output you get: Applications ==> Accessories => Terminal, and type there:

```

compiz --replace

```

---

### Post by Nithish on 2009-01-22
well i have downloaded a 32-bit version of Ubuntu 8.10 and here is the result for the code

nithish@nithish-desktop:~$ /usr/bin/compiz 
Checking for Xgl: not present.  
No whitelisted driver found 
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems. 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present.  
Trying again with indirect rendering: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present.  
Checking for non power of two support: Not present.  
SKIP_CHECKS is yes, so continuing despite problems. 
Checking for Software Rasterizer: Not present.  
Checking for nVidia: not present.  
Checking for FBConfig: present.  
Checking for Xgl: not present.  
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: Support for non power of two textures missing 
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0 
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0 
Window manager warning: Buggy client sent a _NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW message with a timestamp of 0 for 0x66016ab (OpenOffice) 
Window manager warning: meta_window_activate called by a pager with a 0 timestamp; the pager needs to be fixed. 
Window manager warning: Buggy client sent a _NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW message with a timestamp of 0 for 0x66016ab (OpenOffice) 
Window manager warning: meta_window_activate called by a pager with a 0 timestamp; the pager needs to be fixed. 
Window manager warning: Buggy client sent a _NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW message with a timestamp of 0 for 0x66022aa (OpenOffice) 
Window manager warning: meta_window_activate called by a pager with a 0 timestamp; the pager needs to be fixed. 
Window manager warning: Buggy client sent a _NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW message with a timestamp of 0 for 0x66022aa (OpenOffice) 
Window manager warning: meta_window_activate called by a pager with a 0 timestamp; the pager needs to be fixed. 
Window manager warning: Buggy client sent a _NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW message with a timestamp of 0 for 0x6602b30 (OpenOffice) 
Window manager warning: meta_window_activate called by a pager with a 0 timestamp; the pager needs to be fixed. 
Window manager warning: Buggy client sent a _NET_ACTIVE_WINDOW message with a timestamp of 0 for 0x6602b30 (OpenOffice) 
Window manager warning: meta_window_activate called by a pager with a 0 timestamp; the pager needs to be fixed.

---

### Post by bixejo on 2009-01-22
If you have installed a 32bits edition, what I thought does not apply to your case.

I've seen however that you did not apply the "--replace" option when you launched compiz. I'm not sure whether this may affect somehow...

Perhaps if you try the compiz-check script written by Forlong you may find your problems reason: [http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Check](http://forlong.blogage.de/entries/pages/Compiz-Check)

Good luck,

---

### Post by Nithish on 2009-02-03
Here is my compiz-check result:

Gathering information about your system...

Description:           Ubuntu 8.10
Desktop environment:   GNOME
Graphics chip:         S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]
Driver in use:         savage
Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking for texture_from_pixmap...                [OK]
Checking for non power of two support...           [FAIL]
Checking for composite extension...                [OK]
Checking for FBConfig...                           [OK]
Checking for hardware/setup problems...            [OK]

---

### Post by bixejo on 2009-02-06
> **Nithish said:**
> Here is my compiz-check result:

Gathering information about your system...

Description:           Ubuntu 8.10
Desktop environment:   GNOME
Graphics chip:         S3 Inc. VT8375 [ProSavage8 KM266/KL266]
Driver in use:         savage
Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking for texture_from_pixmap...                [OK]
**[COLOR=Red] Checking for non power of two support...           [FAIL][/COLOR]**
Checking for composite extension...                [OK]
Checking for FBConfig...                           [OK]
Checking for hardware/setup problems...            [OK]

Looks like your driver does not correctly support screen resolutions whose ranges are not an integer power of two number of pixels. I know this is a relatively common issue, but I'm afraid I don't know any workaround for this. You should probably ask some other clever guy. I'm sorry.

Good luck,

---

### Post by lakersforce on 2009-02-06
> **Kevbert said:**
> ...it has been reported that it may work on some S3 cards (but this is very unlikely as S3 don't support 3D graphics acceleration).

Quoted for truth. S3 video cards and free and open source software does not mix well.

---

### Post by toolfan202 on 2009-02-06
Just a warning and side note to this post.  I was having issues with my desktop effects and went and enabled my hardware drivers for my ATI 3870m graphics cards.  Unfortunately when I restarted, Ubuntu boots in command line and is unable to connect to x server.  I have posted [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1060992&highlight=screens+found") for a solution.

---

