---
title: "Ubuntu gone as an option from GRUB boot menu"
date: 2017-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xelpmis on 2017-06-16
Running a dual boot Ubuntu 16.04/Windows 10 system.

Yesterday I was using Aptitude to search for and update some packages. I was in root user mode and accidently pressed `g` twice in quick seccession which, I think, prompted Aptitude to execute a bunch of install/uninstall commands that were queued up. I'm not really sure what it did but the next time I booted my system it Ubuntu was missing from the GRUB menu with only Windows and MemTest remaining. I'm currently running the Boot Repair found [here]("https://sourceforge.net/p/boot-repair-cd/home/Home/") but it keeps hanging on 'Purge kernels then resintall last kernel sda5 (ins)...'

It's as if Ubuntu is only missing from the GRUB menu.

Here is the boot info generated by Boot Repair: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/24875977/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/24875977/)

Any ideas? Thanks!

---

### Post by yancek on 2017-06-16
> It's as if Ubuntu is only missing from the GRUB menu.

Exactly right which you can see in your boot repair output, no Ubuntu entries.  I'm not sure you can create a new grub.cfg file with boot repair so maybe check the options available but info on that is at the site below as well as how to do a 'chroot' to reinstall and update grub.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Reinstalling_GRUB_2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2/Installing#Reinstalling_GRUB_2)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2017-06-16
Boot-Repair also has an option to install latest kernel.

And Ubuntu/grub does not use boot flag. Boot-Flag (active partition in Windows) should only be on the primary NTFS partition with Windows boot files, your sda1.

---

### Post by xelpmis on 2017-06-19
Ok, I got boot repair working! Instead of booting into the Boot Repair live distro (which kept getting hung up when I actually tried to run the boot repair) I used a live distro of Ubuntu and rain boot repair from there. Boot repair did it's thing and now I can see Ubuntu in the GRUB boot menu again. Memtest is gone now, but that's a problem for another day.

---

