---
title: "My display needs to be set everytime i switch on my computer"
date: 2009-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-08-31
hi..
i would like to receive help regarding this matter... My ubuntu is being set to 800 x 600 display mode.. Though i change and everytime i switch on my computer and log in, it is not permanently being saved...

thanks in advance

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2009-08-31
Could you give us some hardware specifications?
How do you set the resolution?

---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-09-02
i go to system->Preferences->Display and then set it to the recommended mode.. as soon as i log in a display "Not recommended mode Recommended mode : 1280x1024" sets in..

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-09-02
What are you using for a graphics card?

---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-09-03
Nvidia

---

### Post by vedek on 2009-09-03
have you installed the correct drivers? This can be a problem if the drivers aren't setup right

---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-09-03
I am not aware of that.. But I also get the following error when I go to System->Preferences->Display
"It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool. Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead"
I click yes and proceed to set the configuration to 1200x1024, 60Hz

---

### Post by Vishnu V on 2009-09-03
Goto system->administration->Nvidia Xserver
Set Xserver Display configuration and click on save to X configuration file and save it.

---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-09-03
i get an error..
/etc/X11/xorg.conf this is the path that was auto generated... and it displays the error. "Unable to create new X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'"

---

### Post by Vishnu V on 2009-09-03
open terminal 
and change permission by
sudo chmod 777 /etc/X11/*
or try open the nvidia Xserver settings by
sudo /usr/bin/nvidia-settings from terminal
and try to save

---

### Post by vedek on 2009-09-03
> **onetwothreecool said:**
> i get an error..
/etc/X11/xorg.conf this is the path that was auto generated... and it displays the error. "Unable to create new X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'"
 
what does your xorg.conf say?
 
open it by typing ```
gedit /etc/x11/xorg.conf
```
 
You wont be able to edit it but you should be able to copy and paste what it says.

---

### Post by howlingmadhowie on 2009-09-03
> **onetwothreecool said:**
> i get an error..
/etc/X11/xorg.conf this is the path that was auto generated... and it displays the error. "Unable to create new X config backup file '/etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup'"

yeah, there's a problem with permissions there.  basically the linux (ubuntu) way is to say that a standard user doesn't have the right to change system-wide configuration files.  usually this is a pain, but it does catch the few times when you would otherwise seriously break things.

either you change the rights to /etc/X11 to allow your standard user to create files in that directory, or you run the tool as root as described above.

you could also edit (as root) /etc/X11/xorg.conf by hand, but that's not something for the faint-hearted.

---

### Post by damis648 on 2009-09-03
> **Vishnu V said:**
> open terminal 
and change permission by
sudo chmod 777 /etc/X11/*
or try open the nvidia Xserver settings by
sudo /usr/bin/nvidia-settings from terminal
and try to save

Do NOT do this. Don't randomly go about changing permissions. To do this properly, press Alt+F2 and type in
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```
and then make your adjustments and then 'Save to X Config File'.

---

### Post by abelian jeff on 2009-09-03
I'm having the same problem on my Toshiba Satellite L305. My computer always boots into a 4:3 display, and I have to reset it to a 16:10 display manually. Not a big deal, but sort of annoying. Any help will be greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by enaction on 2009-09-03
I just developed the same problem today - no clue why.  I tried reinstalling drivers but no luck.  Then I went into filesystem/etc/X11 and saw the "xorg.conf.backup" was missing.  I created a blank txt fike with a text editor naming it "xorg.conf.backup" and re-saved my xorg.conf with the setting I wanted. That solved the problem for me.

---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-09-04
Hi.. thank u very much for having helped me.. My gratitude is extended towards Vishnu V, Vedek,  Howlingmadhowie, and Damis648.. I followed the steps as instructed and it got saved.. Will post again after rebooting my computer and checking if the error occurs again.. :)

---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-09-04
I had changed the permissions.. and I restarted my computer to see if it worked.. unfortunately, it did not..

---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-09-04
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6100 nForce 405"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x1024_60 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by onetwothreecool on 2009-09-04
the above was what was there in my xorg.conf

---

