---
title: "12.10 boots recovery mode in read-only"
date: 2012-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-11-07
how to i make it allow me to write files?
why would i want recovery mode in read-only anyway, you can't fix config fiels in read-only mode

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-11-08
Hi!, **pqwoerituytrueiwoq,**

In the recovery menu, select the fsck option & it will reset the system to Read/Write; or, drop to root terminal and reset from there.

Chao!, **bogan.**

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-11-08
what is the command from a root terminal to do that? too impatient for fsck, i don't need to to fsck when i need to remove /etc/X11/xorg.conf
i wend through hell cause of a amd driver yesterday, and i needed to pruge it, i got it done, but not in a timely manner

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2012-11-08
try

```
# mount -o remount,rw /
```

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2012-11-08
> **pqwoerituytrueiwoq said:**
> how to i make it allow me to write files?
why would i want recovery mode in read-only anyway, you can't fix config fiels in read-only mode
hi
you can do it in the following steps:

  1. Select (highlight) the GRUB boot menu entry you wish to use.
  2. Press e to edit the GRUB boot commands for the selected boot menu entry.
  3. Look near the bottom of the list of commands for lines similar to
     linux /boot/vmlinuz-3.2.0-24-generic root=UUID=bc6f8146-1523-46a6-8b\
     6a-64b819ccf2b7 [COLOR=Red]ro[/COLOR] quiet splash initrd /boot/initrd.img-3.2.0-24-generic
  4. Change ro to [COLOR=Blue]rw[/COLOR]
  5. Press either CTRL X or F10 to boot
--> the changes are not persisten !

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-11-08
thanks
this will make it persistent until the next time grub regenerates its menu
```
sudo sed -i 's/ro recovery/rw recovery/' /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-11-09
Hi!, **[pqwoerituytrueiwoq]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?find=lastposter&t=2082438")**,

Have you ever actually tried out the recovery mode in Quantal??

I can hardly believe it but when I was trying out the 'change "ro to "rw" tip' it made no difference; the recovery menu still said: "Read/Only" and selecting an option gave a warning that the system would be reset to Read/Write.

However, with 'ro' or  'rw', dropping to a root shell, without first running any other option, and running' ls -l' gave:```
drwxr-xr-x 2 alan alan  4096 Oct 09 20:44 Desktop
drwxr-xr-x 2 alan alan  4096 Oct 09 20 12 Templates
```Exactly the same as with a normal boot-up, whether the heading showed'read only' or 'read/write'.

In the text prior to the recovery menu showing, there is a line that says " system read will be reset to Read/Write during the recovery process" - or words to that effect.

Like every one else, I took the heading & warning in the recovery menu, to be real, but it is not true. Not in my set-up - anyway.

Try it & see.

Chao!,** bogan.**

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-11-09
i did not try the fix, i assumed that would work, i have used recovery in 12.10 ran fsck, got impatient hit ctrl+c waited
it boots the rest of the way
ctrl+alt+f1
finally a tty i can write with

---

