---
title: "In 11.10 Unity slow after resume from suspend"
date: 2011-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MarioBross. on 2011-11-22
Hi, sorry for my English

Since I installed 11.10 I have a problem with Unity, after suspend resume this becomes very slow.

I've opened a bug Bug # 892544, but it seems that only happens to me :-(

Copy and paste here the bug to see if someone can help:

How to play:

Go to Unity Dash, show all applications, move icons up and down with the scroll bar, suspend and resume, perform the same operation and notice that is very slow,everything that is related to unity becomes slower: Dash, Expo, etc..

I've also tested from a Live USB and also this bug already happens with the (cd or usb) of installation.

This bug only happens with free radeon driver with driver fglrx does not happen.

This only happens in unity, this does not happen in either Gnome Shell or Unity 2D.

I do not know if it's a bug in Unity or compiz, but "unity --reset" solves the problem until the next suspend / resume.

I do not know if this bug may be related to #782810 or #803943, but I did not notice any increase in CPU consumption.

This bug occurs on a clean install of 11.10 [64 bits] with a ATI Radeon 5770 graphics card, Asus P6T Deluxe V2 Motherboard, Micro Intel Core™ i7-950 y SSD OCZ Vertex2.

11.04 On the same computer works fine

In 11.04 radeon driver used mesa, in 11.10 used Gallium3D

May be related with Gallium3D?

I want to know if anyone else who has ati radeon graphics card and use the free driver has the same problem.

Thank you.

---

### Post by MarioBross. on 2011-11-22
I still performing tests.

I tried on a laptop with intel graphics card and this problem does not occur.

---

### Post by copester on 2011-11-23
I have the same problem on a Thinkpad W520 with an NVIDIA Quadro 2000M. Again, it takes about 10-20 seconds to come out of suspend (it seems like unity is just sitting around) using the nvidia driver, but comes out of suspend in 5 seconds with the intel driver.

---

