---
title: "10.10 -- Sorry, Mutter closed..."
date: 2011-01-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bwquestion on 2011-01-29
Downloaded Netbook CD image and booted to the "Try" option.  Boots to a desktop and as soon as I try to launch anything the screen does some type of cycle and refresh then I get a window telling me it is Sorry, Mutter closed unexpectedly and asks me to send a report.
 
Do you have to click things in a certain order?  I have tried different things but all of them get the same result.
 
I saw another post that said to log out and log into the Ubunto Desktop.  I have done that, but if you have to do that every time then what is the point of the other desktop?

---

### Post by bwquestion on 2011-02-01
Anybody have a fix for this?

---

### Post by bwquestion on 2011-02-02
Am I posting in the wrong place?
 
Anyone?

---

### Post by bwquestion on 2011-02-04
5 days and not even a comment.  linux still isn't ready.  I'll try again next year.

---

### Post by irvingswiftj86 on 2011-02-08
I found a fix for this, it isn't perfect however it means i can now use unity.

You need to use the unity 2D instead of 3D.

From what I've heard it will come with the install of 11.04 however for now you can download it by loading terminal and entering:

#sudo add-apt-repository ppa:unity-2d-team/unity-2d-daily && sudo apt-get update

and then:

#sudo apt-get install unity-qt-default-settings

Now, you log out and you can select to use unity-2d on the logon screen.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by fatriff on 2011-03-21
> **bwquestion said:**
> 5 days and not even a comment.  linux still isn't ready.  I'll try again next year.

LOL, Linux has been ready for years, maybe it's you who isn't ready :lolflag:

---

