---
title: "16.10 missing indicator icons after lock or workspace switching"
date: 2016-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zajcek on 2016-10-17
After freshly installed Ubuntu 16.10 (also after the upgrade from 16.04), some indicator icons are lost after lock or workspace switching.
The affected applications are:
- Slack
- Clementine
- Remember the MIlk
- ...

Here is the screenshot: [ATTACH=CONFIG]271667[/ATTACH]

Any workaround?

---

### Post by v-mark-5 on 2016-10-18
I am having the same issue with Chrome.

---

### Post by reny77 on 2016-10-18
Same problem after update from 16.04. I have Paper theme but it also happens with the default theme with Skype, Owncloud Desktop e MEGA. Dopbox, shutter, ecc... are not affected...

[ATTACH=CONFIG]271675[/ATTACH]

Reproduce with: CTRL+ALT+L . 

I have no problem with workspace switch.

---

### Post by spurlos2 on 2016-10-19
I'm also affected.

System icons are working just as before, and some app icons are ok (f.lux, Toggl). Chrome, Teamveiwer, Slack, RescueTime are showing red "no-icon" generic icon.

---

### Post by reny77 on 2016-10-19
Is there a bug in lunchpad?

---

### Post by lxkl on 2016-10-21
> **reny77 said:**
> Is there a bug in lunchpad?

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/skype/+bug/1633174](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/skype/+bug/1633174)

Maybe someone can help to improve the bug report.

I would also be interested in a way to simply block the problematic applications from creating any icon. No icon is better than those "keep out" symbols.

---

### Post by marcin-berduszek on 2016-11-18
Same here. Ubuntu 16.10 clean install. Problems with Skype, Pidgin, WiFi, and battery icons

---

### Post by leland-g-hoover on 2016-12-17
[COLOR=#111111][FONT=Ubuntu]Desktop, taskbar, and search icons are missing on a freshly installed Ubuntu 16.10. possibly after switching to the high contrast theme. Reverting the theme or rebooting does not repair the missing icons. About half of the icons are missing and include standard Ubuntu icons, e.g., settings. How do I restore the icons?[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

