---
title: "xorg.conf nouveau / nvidia troubles"
date: 2011-08-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by feeblebrain on 2011-08-12
Hi,

Please help with the following xorg-server problem;

First, some specifics;

OS:        Ubuntu 10.04 LTS amd64
GPU:        Galaxy GeForce GT430
Monitor:    Acer X193w

Heart of the matter;

I am installing an Ubuntu partition on the computer for my mother's use. I want it as basic as possible, as in no need for 3D acceleration and such. Originally I wanted to use the standard nouveau driver, but it seems to have some trouble acquiring the monitor resolution. I will add that, preferably, I do want to use this driver.

Now, let me deviate a little. On a previous installation several months ago (for an installation of my own, for which I did want an nvidia driver) I had attempted to use the "nvidia-current" driver. To cut a long story short, I was never able to get it to recognize the monitor and finally threw in the towel, downloaded the latest Linux binary driver from Nvidia.com, installed that, and made these modifications to the xorg.conf file generated by X -configure...

```

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Acer"
    ModelName      "X193w"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```...and everything worked a treat. Problem solved by different means.

Now, back to my present problem.

I DO NOT want to install the propietary binary Nvidia driver on my mother's partition, as described. Unable to get the resolution I wanted with nouveau, no matter what I did with the xorg.conf file, I decided to try again with the "nvidia-current" driver available with apt-get. Of course, I also installed the "nvidia-settings". I have activated the "nvidia-current" driver in Administration->Hardware Drivers. When I open the NVIDIA X-server settings, I get prompted to do nvidia-xconfig, as root. But doing this produces a very unsatisfactory xorg.conf file. Editing this file, as in the clip above, does nothing. In fact, Ubuntu will not even start in the required run level, and I have to boot into a terminal (with a rescue-cd) and delete it to restore a working system with a low resolution (800x600).

What I want to do;

**Option 1: Configure nouveau to run in a 1440x900 or 1152x720 resolution.**

or;

**Option 2: Configure the nvidia-current driver to run in a 1440x900 or 1152x720 resolution.**

IE; how should I configure my xorg.conf file to run the required way?

Additional information, the X -configure action INSISTS of placing the driver as; fbdev. What on earth is THAT! It hates it being changed to "nouveau", "nv", or "nvidia".

Any help, please? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-12
Did you blacklist the nouveau driver during formerly nvidia-driver
installation attempts?
Using the fbdev driver might not give you the desired resolution(s).
Guess the screen maximum is limited.
Post output from
```
xrandr -q
```
and your 
Xorg.0.log file.
Btw,the nvidia-driver might work better also in 2D.

---

### Post by feeblebrain on 2011-08-12
Thanks for the reply,

Here's the xrandr -q output;

```

Screen 0: minimum 640 x 480, current 800 x 600, maximum 800 x 600
default connected 800x600+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   800x600        61.0* 
   640x480        60.0  

```Yes, at present nouveau IS blacklisted, and xserver-xorg-video-nouveau is uninstalled, to be sure.

The possible problem is that running nvidia-xconfig produces this error;

```

WARNING: Unable to locate/open X configuration file.

New X configuration file written to '/etc/X11/xorg.conf'

```

BTW, this is done with no xorg.conf file in /etc/X11, to start with. As in, right after I delete the non-working one with the rescue CD terminal and reboot to Ubuntu. I notice a small difference with the output xorg this time...

```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder58)  Thu Apr 22 20:35:23 PDT 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

I am going to try the monitor settings here again.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-12
Nouveau:
With nouveau blacklisted,there is only vesa/fbdev left.
So if you want Xorg -configure to work with nouveau,un-blacklist it.
................................................................
Nvidia:
The xorg.conf made by nvidia-xconfig should give you more resolutions
available when editing
```
HorizSync       28.0 - [COLOR="Red"]33.0[/COLOR]
```
to the valid value for your monitor:
```
HorizSync       28.0 - 81.0
```

---

### Post by feeblebrain on 2011-08-12
Okay, I am going with the non-nouveau solution at the moment (it is uninstalled). IE, I am proceeding with the nvidia-common option.

Here are the changes that I did to the above posted xorg.conf file (the nvidia-xconfig generated one).

```

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
##    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
##    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

```

 ..and..

```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1440x900"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

 I know those monitor settings work for the Acer x193w / GT430 combination, as I have used  them before, both on Ubuntu and Debian stable. I also know that the screen settings are functional. The only difference (here) is that they work for the Nvidia.com downloaded proprietary binary driver. They do not appear to work for the Ubuntu repository available nvidia-common driver, however. 

At present, I end up with a screen that intermittently flashes something that looks like a tty terminal, and never starts the gdm. I am beginning to think there is something wrong with the nvidia-common driver (at least where the GT430 is concerned), as I am going around the same block I went around a few months ago with this same problem.

Nonetheless, I will expand the information a bit. The partition is brand new. The only thing done (apart from these "experiments" with the nvidia-common driver) was a manual install of build-essential in order to make and install the driver for the DLink DWA-125 usb wireless driver. I have not even done an update/upgrade yet, nor installed mesa-utils (as I do not really want them for this partition). But.. do I need them for the nvidia-common to work? I don't think so, really.

---

### Post by feeblebrain on 2011-08-12
Nope, no joy at all. 

Something is not right with this. This issue is not solved, as I found no solution and I have found no bug report on the problem of the nvidia-common driver for Ubuntu. Spent a good part of a day trying to fix it through xorg.conf. It just won't have it. I have thrown the towel in again and downloaded the NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64.280.13.run, from nvidia.com, which works. Pain in the neck, as I did not want to do that for this particular partition.

A working nouveau for the resolutions described above would have been just the thing, as my mother only wants it to check her e-mails, not to play Alien Arena.

Ah well... thanks for the help, anyway. Bye for now.

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-12
> **feeblebrain said:**
> 
A working nouveau for the resolutions described above would have been just the thing, as my mother only wants it to check her e-mails, not to play Alien Arena.

Asked already if nouveau was blacklisted when running Xorg --configure..or when trying xorg.conf with nouveau.

---

### Post by feeblebrain on 2011-08-12
> **realzippy said:**
> Asked already if nouveau was blacklisted when running Xorg --configure..or when trying xorg.conf with nouveau.

No, it was not blacklisted when I was trying to get it to work earlier. I only blacklisted it later, once I decided to try the nvidia-common driver route. But no worries, it's all good on the nvidia binary now. Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-13
So you can set thread as solved (ThreadTools).
Have fun !

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-08-22
Just cleaning up my subscribed threads.
Please set thread as solved (ThreadTools)...thanks

---

