---
title: "9.04 sound issues"
date: 2009-06-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LashSilence83 on 2009-06-09
I have a 64 bit ubuntu 9.04 system with a tv as a monitor by way of dvi-to-hdmi cable and a mini-to-stereo rca "Y" cable for audio. With this setup, I have video but no sound at all. During my troubleshooting I booted the system from a few live cd's such as 32 bit ubuntu 8.10 & 7.10, knoppix 5.1, fedora 9, and Slax. All of these have perfect sound whether it's system sounds or music or movies. I'm pretty stumped as to what could be the issue. I've checked all the switches and made sure nothing was muted or turned off. Could it be that there is something different about the version of the sound server in 9.04 or could it be something to do with it being 64-bit? Whats even more strange is if I hook up speakers to the computer instead of having the audio adapter cable going to the tv, I get sound from the speakers. Not sure what to make of this. 

audio portion of lspci: 
Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc SBx00 Azalia (Intel HDA)

EDIT: I have also tried 8.10 64 bit live cd now and it also has sound.

UPDATE: I have now tried a laptop running 32 bit 9.04 in place of the original machine specified previously, and it doesn't play sound out of the tv either. So that tells me something in the sound server in jaunty is fundamentally different than previous versions. So should I try to install an older version of pulseaudio or something like that? Would that even work at all?

---

### Post by cougs_83 on 2009-06-17
Wondering if you have found a solution to this issue?  I have a similar issue using the DVI to HDMI with An ATI video card.

---

### Post by LashSilence83 on 2009-06-17
Nothing as of yet. I've tried all manner of live cd's and the sound works on all of them. I even burned 32 and 64 bit 9.04 live cd's and tried those and the sound worked there too. The only changes that ever would have occured with my system are the official updates. I have never adjusted anything within the sound system because it's always worked perfectly before. It's quite strange. I just wish someone could offer some insight...

---

### Post by synapsys on 2009-06-17
Have you tried reverting to an older version of alsa?

---

### Post by LashSilence83 on 2009-06-17
[EDIT]  How should I go about rolling back alsa to an older version?

---

