---
title: "20.04 -&gt; 22.04 upgrade: suddenly all user files are group &quot;sambashare&quot;. Huh?"
date: 2022-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-09-09
I recently upgraded Lubuntu 20.04 LTS to 22.04.1.
After the upgrade, all my user files in $HOME now belong to the group "sambashare".
I'm 100% certain that I've nefer in my life worked with Samba, and certainly haven't at any point during installation/upgrade been prompted on this point.

What happened here?

Thanks.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-09-09
Earlier  versions of Calamares in the sambashare group gets created before the regular user and associated group. Since sambashare only has a GID it gets 1000 and that leaves UID 1000 open for the first user but GID 1000 is already taken so users get 1001 and so on. The new method creates sambashare as a system user so the GID is < 1000 and that leaves GID and UID open for users.
Post was from a counsil member kc2bez: [https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/user-and-group-id-mismatch/1978/6](https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/user-and-group-id-mismatch/1978/6)

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-09-09
Thanks.
Interesting. So it's a GID problem. I wonder why the upgrade to 22.04 brought it to the surface.
I've solved the problem by eliminating all memberships to " sambashare" and running a "sudo chown -R ..." on my $Home.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-09-09
Good job, it was a new edition again in 21.10 as  well. Not well documented though.
this is a another possibility:
```
sudo find / -group GID -exec chgrp -h USERNAME {} \;
sudo find / -user UID -exec chown -h USERNAME {} \;`

```
Where:
[list]
    [*]USERNAME is the user&#8217;s username. In the event of the logged in user, that&#8217;s $USER
    [*]GID is the old (or incorrect) GID for the user
   [*]UID is the old (or incorrect) UID for the user[/list]
EDIT: I ran it for fun:
```
sudo find / -group GID -exec chgrp -h USERNAME {} \;
[sudo] password for me: 
find: &#8216;GID&#8217; is not the name of an existing group

```
No reason to run the second command, with that report.

**This still needs testing, though. **

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-09-09
I've dug a bit deeper into this issue.
On all previous installations, the main user always had UID=1000 and GID=1001.
New users would have 1001:1002 and 1002:1003. I always wondered about that, but OK.
"sambashare" still has GID=1000 on 22.04, but apparently the installer thinks that the main user has GID=1000.

What a mess!

I'll not pursue this further (it's a laptop just for me and a couple of other users), but I shudder when thinking of the implications for larger installations.

---

