---
title: "Frequency Out of range with new Linux OS's eg. Ubuntu 11.10"
date: 2011-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Not unique on 2011-11-27
All new Linux OS's wont work, I use Ubuntu 10.10 but want to try 11.10 but 11.10, 11.04 or other Linux OS's give me a "Frequency Out of range" message infact even running live CD/DVD's  or upgrading gives the same or a similar blank screen then if I can install I get a blank screen I just cant seem to get any thing past Ubuntu 10.10 working, I got Ubuntu studio (alternative install) to install but then nothing! ??? 

*Can some one please help me I love Ubuntu + have used it since 2005 and don't want to start using Win again or other.*

P.S. I have scrolled Ubuntu forum and Google but I can't figure it out.

PC:

Motherboard: D865GLC
CPU: 3.8 GB's
RAM: DDR2 2GB's
OS: Ubuntu 10.10
Video card: Nvidia 7600GT

---

### Post by Not unique on 2011-11-27
If it helps this is the Nvideo x config file:


# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Oct  4 16:01:38 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL  E773p"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "1360x768 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1280x960 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Not unique on 2011-11-27
BUMP:

How can I change the resolution when I can't see a thing? or do I need a better monitor?

Anyone please?

P.S. It is not just GRUB I had that problem with Ubuntu 11.04.

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2011-11-27
> **Not unique said:**
> BUMP:

How can I change the resolution when I can't see a thing? or do I need a better monitor?

P.S. It is not just GRUB I had that problem with Ubuntu 11.04.
OK - Its not software that's  giving  you the frequency out of range error. Its hardware. Try checking your video cable,adaptor etc.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-11-27
is this message from the monitor it self? (i have had resolution issues like this using vga but using dvi fixed that)
if so change the refresh rate 
[FONT=Courier New]gksu nvidia-settings[/FONT]

---

### Post by Not unique on 2011-11-28
Yes the message was from the monitor but I fixed that in Ubu 11.04 now if any 11.10 Ubu's install I get a blank screen,  how can I change the resolution/frequency if I can't see a thing it's not just a grub issue???

I had that issue with Ubuntu 11.04 and pretended GRUB was there then used "startup manager" to change the resolution in GRUB. now with 11.10 if I can get anything to install it is blank when I do.

---

### Post by Not unique on 2011-11-28
Does anyone happen know what is the resolution + refresh rate of Ubuntu 11.10?
What is new that makes the newer Linux OS's not work?
New GRUB, new Gnome or Unity or other???

---

### Post by Not unique on 2011-11-29
bump

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2011-11-29
You need to start thinking a bit and reading your own post. If you can't boot from the CD as stated then it's definitely not the nvidia  xorg.conf on your hard drive. Your getting the error before the grub boot menu (right after the bios screen most likely)which tells you its not getting that far and the video drivers have not loaded.Bedside's changing or upgrading to 11.10 what have you done differently. Have you added or changed your video card ?   Are you using the same output on the Video card (DVI or VGA)? There is no set resolution or refresh rate for an operating system. It depends on your HARDWARE. The video card and monitor determine the resolution and refresh rate . Have you manually changed the default settings on the monitor ?How did you FIX that in 11.04 as stated ?  I went thru  the same trials and tribulations when I decided to hook up a home theater system and found a bad VGA extender was causing the problem. If you let us know what you have done to change things we might be able to offer more help.

---

### Post by Not unique on 2011-11-29
Apologies this is stressful I will try to explain more clearly:
I had a grub resolution problem with Ubu 11.04 but that is not my problem.
Later I tried to install 11.10 but got a blank screen so re installed 10.10 then I tried Xubuntu 11.10, Ubuntu studio 11.10, New Fedora and new Suse but keep getting blank screens,
Ubuntu 11.10 is what I want but cant get anything so I reinstalled Ubu 10.10 and upgraded to 11.04 then 11.10 as soon as 11.10 booted it was blank again,
Then I wiped the HD and did a fresh install of Ubuntu studio 11.10 (alternate install) w3hich installed fine but once again when I booted the screen was blank again,
the grub resolution issue I now realise is separate sorry.

Motherboard: Intel D865GLC
CPU: 3.4 GB
RAM: 2 GB
Video card: Nvidia Gforce 7600gt
Monitor: DELL E773p (highest rate = 1280 x 1024 at 60Hz) 

P.S. Sorry I have made a mess of this (stress stress) can you re-do threads so I can explain more clearly now I know a bit more??

---

