---
title: "issue with grub entries"
date: 2010-09-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vert11 on 2010-09-11
Hi all,
A few days ago when I hard reset my laptop(i had to for some reason),after that day my grub loader shows me two entries for ubuntu both entris perform same action ,ubuntu loaded by both them work absolutely fine ...
but I want to get rid of that extra entry in grub ,what should I do???

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-09-11
vert11, welcome to the Ubuntu forums.  :-)

It is most likely a new kernel and just coincidence that it shortly followed your power problem. As kernels are added, they are added to the Grub menu. The easiest way to remove extra kernels from the menu is to use an app called startup-manager. Check my signature for the "SUM" link. SUM can hide the kernels from the menu. You can remove extra kernels from the system, as well as the menu, with Ubuntu Tweak. There is a paragraph on how to use Ubuntu Tweak in the link as well. Again, you may want to leave two kernel options so you have a backup.

If the one you want to remove is the recovery mode option, you can turn it off in the grub settings file: /etc/default/grub  

You may not want to turn off the ability to boot to the recovery mode, but if you want to know how, open /etc/default/grub and remove the # symbol at the start of the line.

```
sudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

**[COLOR="DarkRed"]Remove[/COLOR]** the # symbol from this line:
> **[COLOR="DarkRed"]#[/COLOR]**GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_RECOVERY="true"

Update grub:
```
sudo update-grub
```


If you aren't sure, copy the two menuentry items from /boot/grub/grub.cfg and we can see why you have duplicates.

---

### Post by vert11 on 2010-09-12
Thanks...
i checked duplicate entries in grub.cfg but i cant edit the file ,why is it so???

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-09-12
Grub 2 was a major change to the bootloader. The grub.cfg file is read-only - to discourage editing the file, even as root you have to change the write permissions before you can edit it.

grub.cfg is generated by scripts. Most of the normal changes are made to /etc/default/grub. When update-grub is run, the settings in that file are incorporated into grub.cfg.

Go to either the G2-Basics thread or the Grub 2 community doc, linked in my signature line, for an overview and more of how Grub 2 works. For making standard changes, check the "G2-tasks" thread.

---

