---
title: "10.10 will no longer boot, need data urgently"
date: 2011-01-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cityscape on 2011-01-26
My mum has a computer that has a dual boot with Windows XP and Ubuntu 10.10. Well Ubuntu will not boot anymore, i just get a bunch of CLI output mentioning missing stuff. But she has really important data that she needs which is on the ubuntu partition. I have tried using Ubuntu & Knoppix live CD's the mount the partition and copy the data to her external HDD. On Ubuntu it couldn't mount, it just kept trying and trying forever. On Knoppix it just gave me a heap of CLI output that I have no clue what it means.

How can I save all her data? Is there a program that can sav the data, or what is the best way?

I really need some good help here guys! :|

Thanks,
Adam

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2011-01-26
Hello,

so xp is booting fine and ubuntu is not?
What are the errors you are getting? 

if it was corrupted, then I think that you would not be able to see even xp. If you have not overwritten the data, then they are there. I do not get what you mean that the partition takes ages to mount. 

What are the commands you are issuing? Have you been able to mount xp partition? 

Regards!

---

### Post by Cityscape on 2011-01-26
XP's partition mounts fine, it is just the Ubuntu partition I cannot access. I will get you some more detailed information right now.

When I mean that it takes ages to mount, I'm meaning that I click the partition from the places menu and the cursor's busy signal goes on and it just doesn't mount and open. Basically It can't seem to mount.

---

### Post by Cityscape on 2011-01-26
This is what I get when I try to start Ubuntu:
```
[1    1.849061] CR2: 0000000002345000
[    1.8504291] ---[ end trace e55a457b17c574fa ]---
Killed
mount: mounting /dev on /root/dev Failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /sys on /root/sys Failed: No such file or directory
mount: mounting /proc on /root/proc Failed: No such file or directory
Target filesystem doesn't have requested /sbin/init
No init found. Try passing init= bootarg

BusyBox v1.15.3 (ubuntu 1:1.15.3-1ubuntu5) built-in shell (ash)
Enter 'help' for a list of build-in commands.

(initramfs)

```

If I run the "init= bootarg" command I get this:
```
/bin/sh: bootarg: not found
```

So I think Ubuntu is dead. I don't mind reinstalling Ubuntu, I just want to safely back up the important data on that partition.

---

### Post by Zanderist on 2011-01-26
Any reports of the Hard Drive dying?

Try booting in a live CD and see if you can open up the Ubuntu  Volume . If you can move all the data you want into a flash drive.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2011-01-27
Hello,

I do not know what you have done with your ubuntu partition, yet since it shows errors, the mounting process from Places won't work.

If I were in your shoes I would do what *Zanderist* suggested, meaning:

[LIST=1]
[*]set your BIOS to boot from your rom drive
[*]plug a usb back ub hdd
[*]put an ubuntu cd in your rom drive and reboot
[*]you will boot from cd, check the trial option and proceed
[*]when the desktop appears open a terminal and become root (think type su -)
[*]create a folder inside /media (e.g. /media/recover) -> mkdir /media/recover
[*]try manually to mount the partition of the drive that has ubuntu on: e.g. sudo mount /dev/sdx# /media/recover (x your hard disk drive which has ubuntu on, # the partition number of your ubuntu)
[*]navigate and copy your files to the backup hdd (cp -r for folders, cp for files)
[/LIST]

Hope it helps,
Regards

PS: Afterwards google your error and see if you can fix the partition.

---

