---
title: "11.10 upgrade interrupted, now Live CD won't even boot in command-line mode"
date: 2011-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Amurko on 2011-11-20
Any ideas?

How likely the following scenario:

Some uninformed person turns your computer off while it's upgrading to a new distribution..  then when you try to turn it back on again, it won't boot up.

Now you try booting with a Live CD in command line mode and it gets stuck.  The key error message is: kernel panic-not syncing: VFS: unable to mount root fs on unknown block.

After this problem occuring because of someone turning off the computer at the worst possible time, it won't even boot up the CD to reinstall Ubuntu!!!!!!! :mad::mad::mad::mad::mad:

---

### Post by Amurko on 2011-11-20
Any ideas or did I just have VERY bad luck where 2 unrelated events all occured at the same time:

1) Someone reboots my computer without my permission
2) Hardware is shot

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-11-20
There is nothing that you can do to your hard drive that should create a situation where you can't even boot from the CD ROM drive.

You can even disconnect the hard drive to check that out.

If your computer is fairly new, I'd highly recommend booting from USB. It's a ton faster.

Is there a chance that your CMOS battery is dead and all of your BIOS settings got trashed?

---

### Post by Amurko on 2011-11-20
[s]Ok, I was able to boot GParted but none of the Ubuntu Live CDs work..  neither the default 11.10 nor the alternate 11.10 ones.  Unfortunately, GParted is of no help other than fixing the HD errors (which didn't help at all) since it has NO networking![/s]

Edit: Nope, GParted now no longer boots as well.

Any ideas of another Distro I might download that'll have networking support and I can chroot in to fix the problems?  Something smaller than 300MB would be ideal..  my bandwidth is very small and I'd like to fix this ASAP (I can't wait another hour to download another Live CD!!)

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2011-11-20
Did you follow Slim Odds' advice (check your CMOS battery and your BIOS settings)? You can boot from a CD, USB, etc. even without a hard drive, so you're either doing something wrong or there's something wrong with the CD. As for a small distro to try, SliTaz would be a good choice. Not the smallest (30MiB), but it'll be easily usable for what you need. If you want to go super small, try MicroCore (8MiB, CLI) or TinyCore (11MiB, GUI).

---

### Post by tordeu on 2011-11-21
Wait, when you're upgrade to 11.10 failed and you are now trying to use the 11.10 cds for a fresh install, that means that you have never used the 11.10 cds before, right?

In this case, maybe there is a problem with 11.10 that creates that problem on your system. In this case, try using the 11.04 CDs to do a fresh install and then try to upgrade. If this does not work, you might just want to create a fresh 11.04 install and stick with it (or try again in a month or two, when more problems have been fixed).

There might also be something wrong with the CDs or your system. But it's not impossible that a LiveCD does not work on a system. Another thing (a long shot, but I just want to mention it) is using 64-bit cds on 32-bit system.

And, as other have mentioned before, disconnect your harddrive and I would also disconnect anything possible (any cards you might have, printers, pretty much everything except your CD-ROM) and then try to boot from the CD.

---

### Post by dniMretsaM on 2011-11-21
> **tordeu said:**
> Wait, when you're upgrade to 11.10 failed and you are now trying to use the 11.10 cds for a fresh install, that means that you have never used the 11.10 cds before, right?

In this case, maybe there is a problem with 11.10 that creates that problem on your system. In this case, try using the 11.04 CDs to do a fresh install and then try to upgrade. If this does not work, you might just want to create a fresh 11.04 install and stick with it (or try again in a month or two, when more problems have been fixed)

I would not recommend this for multiple reasons. One reason being that upgrading tends to cause problems. Especially with such a large change as from 11.04 to 11.10. And even if it doesn't cause problems, it will leave a bunch of residual files that you probably don't want.

---

### Post by tordeu on 2011-11-21
> **dniMretsaM said:**
> I would not recommend this for multiple reasons. One reason being that upgrading tends to cause problems. Especially with such a large change as from 11.04 to 11.10. And even if it doesn't cause problems, it will leave a bunch of residual files that you probably don't want.

I agree. But I just posted this as a possible way of getting a 11.10 system in case the 11.10 CDs don't work. I would recommend staying with 11.04 in that case, but if you really wanted to have a 11.10 system and the 11.10 CDs don't work, that might be a way to do it.

Besides, in most cases upgrading Ubuntu brakes a little small things. Upgrading to 11.10 was not possible for me as well, so I am glad I had backups and upgrading from 10.10 to 11.04 was annoying, because so many things that I had to fix before, were broken again.

---

