---
title: "[SOLVED] Firefox crashes X on unsuccessful in-page find, weird and stupid."
date: 2008-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mechaphoenix25 on 2008-05-30
This has got to be the weirdest, DUMBEST, and most annoying bugs I have ever seen on any computer, outside of Windows ME.  Yes, folks, it's that dumb.  

Hardy Heron, close to clean install, all drivers and such working great (love the new version btw) on a Dell Inspiron 1501.  1.8GHz AMD Sempron 3500+, 1GB RAM, ATI Radeon Xpress 1150.

In Firefox, for some stragne reason, crashes itself and X (yes the entire X server restarts, like alt+ctrl+backspace) whenever a ctrl+f in-page find is unsuccessful.  Which means anytime I'm searching in a page, my spelling has got to be dead-on, or I have to restart all my programs.

Needless to say, a very large number of times, in-page search is going to be unsuccessful, which makes work very slow.

I've searched around, nobody else seems to be experiencing the same thing.  I tried removing all add-ons, reinstalling the packages, short of a full reinstall (which I just did to switch my system to true dual-boot instead of the slightly slower partitionless fun that is Wubi) I'm out of options.

Please, if anyone has experienced something similar or has any ideas, I kinda need this to work, doing research for college in the fall is gonna be heck without it.

Thanks!

---

### Post by clong83 on 2008-05-30
That is one wild bug...  I've never heard of anything like that.  The only place I can think to start...  Can you display the status of your .xsession-errors file?  It should be in your home directory.

---

### Post by 01mf02 on 2008-05-30
Strange errors call for strange actions - have you tried checking your RAM once?

---

### Post by Mechaphoenix25 on 2008-05-30
I can post the .XSession-Errors file, but I think it gets recreated each time the session starts, and crashing automatically ends the session, so I'm not sure how to get in and grab the file without overwriting it.  

I'll do a RAM check... jeez, the last thing I need is to have to buy more RAM on my budget.

Thanks for the tips, I'll see if I can get the error out of the .XSession-Errors file.

---

### Post by Mechaphoenix25 on 2008-05-30
Here's the .xsession-errors, it's rather large.  I switched into recovery mode after triggering the crash and used the root console to make a copy of the file.  All lines but the last 3 are created every time (my xorg.conf is rather weird, multimonitor support with ATI cards sucks, it's currently set up "wrong", if you go by how it's supposed to look, but in just the right way that it works every time.)

The last three lines (to save people the trouble) are as follows:

```

x-session-manager: Fatal IO error 11 (Resource temporarily unavailable) on X server :0.0.
ICE default IO error handler doing an exit(), pid = 7372, errno = 0
ICE default IO error handler doing an exit(), pid = 7511, errno = 11

```

I'll be away for a while, doing a RAM check, although I doubt this would happen every single time, which it does, even if I do a ctrl+f and hit any key on a blank page, if it were faulty RAM.

---

### Post by Mechaphoenix25 on 2008-05-31
Sorry for the bump, but the ram check came back clean.  Anybody got any ideas, it's still doing this.  Would installing firefox 2 help?

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2008-05-31
You mentioned that you're xorg.conf is setup weird which could be causing this problem. Could you post it here?
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Mechaphoenix25 on 2008-06-01
Sure, but be warned, I've done some major tweaking, it probably won't look right, but it's the only way I've found to make dual monitors work on my ATI card.  Namely, have 2 Monitor entries linked into one Screen entry. 
 
```

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "pad"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "dbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Buttons" "9"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 8 9"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
#	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
	Option	    "USB" "on"
	Option      "Twinview"  "vertical"
	Option      "KeepShape" "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
#	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
	Option	    "USB" "on"
	Option      "Twinview"  "vertical"
	Option      "KeepShape" "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
#	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
	Option	    "USB" "on"
	Option      "Twinview"  "vertical"
	Option      "KeepShape" "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "pad"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option	    "Type" "pad"
	Option	    "USB" "on"
	Option      "Twinview"  "vertical"
	Option      "KeepShape" "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver      "synaptics"
	Option	    "SendCoreEvents" "true"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/psaux"
	Option	    "Protocol" "auto-dev"
	Option	    "HorizEdgeScroll" "1"
	Option	    "SHMConfig" "true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "Configured Video Device"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "off"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "DRI" "true"
	Option	    "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
	Option	    "TexturedVideo" "on"
	Option	    "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
	Option	    "UseFastTLS" "0"
	Option	    "BlockSignalsOnLock" "on"
	Option	    "KernelModuleParm" "locked-userpages=0"
	Option	    "DesktopSetup" "horizontal,reverse"
	Option	    "OverlayOnCRTC2" "1"
	Option	    "Mode2" "1280x1024"
	BusID       "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "Configured Video Device"
	Monitor    "Configured Monitor"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[1]"
	DefaultDepth     24
EndSection
```

---

### Post by clong83 on 2008-06-02
Okay...  So the next thing to check might be to find out what those processes are that are causing the errors logged in your xsessions file...  Can you recreate the error, but right before you hit enter on your bad search, go to the command line and type 

```
ps aux >> ps.out
```

Then cause the error.  Reboot in recovery mode and check the output of ps.out against the faulty process IDs it gives you in the new xsession-errors file...  It's kind of a stab in the dark, but maybe it turns up something.  Otherwise I'm out of ideas.

---

### Post by Mechaphoenix25 on 2008-06-02
That sounds like a good idea, but it's going to be tricky in the execution.  See, the thing is, firefox searches as you type, meaning if I even hit one letter wrong it will error out, and take X with it.  I know it's Firefox (the bug, ironically, is extremely reliable) and the process ID's line up.  I've tried reinstalling, but nothing helped.  By the way, does reinstalling through synaptic even do anything?  I've yet to ever have a bug in Linux get fixed by a package reinstall.  Thanks for all the ideas guys, keep them coming!  I'm willing to try just about anything short of a full reinstall to fix this.

By the way, should Firefox have auto-updated to RC1 or should it still be on beta 5?  Maybe that'll fix it.

---

### Post by Mechaphoenix25 on 2008-06-03
Thanks for all the help guys, this just solidified itself as the weirdest bug ever: it fixed itself.  I did a system update and it no longer crashes on unsuccessful searches.  My only theory as to why is that there's an icon I had never seen before that it displays on unsuccessful searches, apparently my icon theme needed updating somehow, and it got it.  

Again, thanks for the help, consider this thread solved!

---

### Post by clong83 on 2008-06-03
Huh.  Yeah, that was a weird cause.  I wonder how you got stuck without that?  
In any case, in response to your question about synaptic, it does reinstall the software, but it does not exactly delete everything.  You often have to manually delete the config files, etc out of your home directory.  So, for the future, to remove firefox completely (or many other programs), you'd have to do an apt-get remove/purge/whatever, and then go to your home directory and delete the .mozilla folder.
Then your reinstall will be "clean", with the default settings, just in case the problem is in your configuration.

---

### Post by Mechaphoenix25 on 2008-08-13
Just to make this complete, I found what was causing it.  Somehow my "beep" sound being used causes X to restart, so I turned off accessibility.typeaheadfind.prefillwithselection in about:config, and it works like a beauty now.

Hope anybody else who has this problem finds this post. :D

---

### Post by Dan_Dranath999 on 2008-08-19
it's not just firefox! I have the same issue with the terminal:

When i click left-arrow or right-arrow and there's nowhere to go (like the end of a command, or the start of the command-line when there's nothing written on it yet) i hear that "error sound" and then X restarts!

(it happens with firefox find-feature too)

---

### Post by Dan_Dranath999 on 2008-08-21
> **Mechaphoenix25 said:**
> Just to make this complete, I found what was causing it.  Somehow my "beep" sound being used causes X to restart, so I turned off accessibility.typeaheadfind.prefillwithselection in about:config, and it works like a beauty now.

Hope anybody else who has this problem finds this post. :D

I did that, and X is still restarted after an unsuccesfull find.

(And Terminal)

---

### Post by logBurner on 2008-08-30
in FF you can turn set accessibility.typeaheadfind.soundURL = to empty string that works for the moment. I also suffer crashes in Kubuntu 8.04 when the basic beep is used in other apps :(

If you set the sound URL to nothing (empty) then you can turn the prefillwithselection back to default.


If you go into system settings click on notifications --> System bell --> tick Use system bell  --> click test and crash.

Anybody know how to solve this [HDA intel card here]?

---

### Post by Dan_Dranath999 on 2008-09-06
when i uninstalled the wacom driver, the bugs were fixed.

But i need my Bamboo tablet, so i compiled the driver again, and the bugs are back.

---

### Post by logBurner on 2008-10-18
Also got a wacom here and suffer crashes. Above post still applies.

---

