---
title: "Enabling Wide-Screen options?"
date: 2008-01-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TomR55 on 2008-01-10
I have an older Envision 1440 X 900 monitor (a 193A) to be precise. I searched this newsgroup and found some helpful suggestions; I've been able to get to the System -> Administration-> Screens and Graphics and have selected 1440 x 900. I also managed to set the Wide-Screen option (although I cannot recall at this moment how I managed that)

In any event, the screen looks fine except its leftmost border falls far short of the monitor's left border --the remaining sides and proportions all look very good.

I'm not too concerned, but I'd like to get those extra three inches or so to the right. I recall when I set the Wide-Screen option that I didn't see this monitor (Envision 193A) on the list of known drivers. Does this mean that I should either find the driver, buy a different (better) console, or just live with what is, admittedly, an acceptable situation?

Thanks in advance for any suggestions/ideas you might provide.

Regards,

TomR

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-01-12
> **TomR55 said:**
> I have an older Envision 1440 X 900 monitor (a 193A) to be precise. I searched this newsgroup and found some helpful suggestions; I've been able to get to the System -> Administration-> Screens and Graphics and have selected 1440 x 900. I also managed to set the Wide-Screen option (although I cannot recall at this moment how I managed that)

In any event, the screen looks fine except its leftmost border falls far short of the monitor's left border --the remaining sides and proportions all look very good.

I'm not too concerned, but I'd like to get those extra three inches or so to the right. I recall when I set the Wide-Screen option that I didn't see this monitor (Envision 193A) on the list of known drivers. Does this mean that I should either find the driver, buy a different (better) console, or just live with what is, admittedly, an acceptable situation?

Thanks in advance for any suggestions/ideas you might provide.

Regards,

TomR

HI and what is the model of the graphics card and have you tried to reconfigure your xorg?

---

### Post by TomR55 on 2008-01-20
> **overdrank said:**
> HI and what is the model of the graphics card and have you tried to reconfigure your xorg?

Well, I've tried reconfiguring X from GRUB recovery. My config file looks like:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"H193Wk"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-83
	VertRefresh	55-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82945G/GZ Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"H193Wk"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1440x900" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Again, this is an older generation Envision Wk193 monitor. I can live with the wasted screen space but, naturally, I'd rather have the complete display.

I appreciate any suggestions you might provide.
Thanks,

TomR:)

---

