---
title: ".EMERALD themes and a few drivers"
date: 2008-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AdarshN on 2008-11-17
Hey there Ubuntu geniuses :D

I have been trying to install an EMERALD theme, but only to find out that I needed to enable **compiz**.
But the problem is that I cannot enable the Desktop Effects, possibly because I've not been able to install the driver for my GeForce Go 7400.

Anyways, I had gotten an nVidia driver package which I've been trying to install as root : 

**sudo sh NVIDIA.run**

But even after doing this, I get the message that I'm on Xserver and have to end it to install the package.

Also, I have a dialup connection ( :guitar: ), so I need to install driver for that too. It's not like I have not tried searching for it :(

I'm on HP Pavilion 6383ea.

Sorry for the long post, but it means a lot to me if you've reached this far by reading it.

PLEASE help.

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-17
Go to: **Main Menu > System > Administration > Hardware Drivers**, and see if you can activate your graphic card from there.
Btw, welcome to the Ubuntu Community.

---

### Post by AdarshN on 2008-11-17
Thanks a lot for your reply.
I have already tried that, as I had read about it some place else.

The driver is '**Enabled**', but says '**Not in use**'.

The driver name is 'nvidia_new' but I am highly doubtful as I have not installed any driver for my GPU by myself.
Also, I have not used the apt-get command as I do not have a DSL connection.

Thanks :)

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-17
It should look something like this:

---

### Post by AdarshN on 2008-11-17
Hey there, looks nothing like that.
I just have 'nvidia_new' and Enabled, Not in Use.

I have the driver package. But as stated before, I'm not able to install it.

> 
But even after doing this, I get the message that I'm on Xserver and have to end it to install the package.



---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-17
Can you post a screenshot?

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-17
By the way, are you using Ubuntu 8.04 or 8.10?

---

### Post by AdarshN on 2008-11-17
Hey there, sorry, I missed out in mentioning my OS.

It's Ubuntu 8.04.1 Hardy Heron

Screen shot has been attached

Thanks!

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-17
OK. Here's a link where you might find the solution:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=880787&highlight=ENVYNG](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=880787&highlight=ENVYNG)

---

### Post by lakersforce on 2008-11-17
Go to command-line: Alt+Ctrl+F1 (Alt-F7 to get back)

backup xorg.conf: sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11xorg.conf.mybackup

turn of Xserver: sudo gdm stop

run your file

restart gdm.

---

### Post by AdarshN on 2008-11-17
@lakersforce : Thanks a lot. This was the general installation procedure which was pointed out to me in the link which eternalnewbee had pointed me to.

But thanks anyways :)

FYI : It still gives me the error that Xserver is running even though I got a confirmation that GDM was stopped.

Please help!

---

### Post by AdarshN on 2008-11-18
Friendly lil' bump :D

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-18
Do you have all the repositories enabled?

system>admin.>software sources

check main, multiverse, universe and restricted

then try to fetch it again:

```
sudo apt-get update

```
```
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-new
```
I found this in another thread.
Hope this helps[-o<

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-11-18
Here's the link:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=648446&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=648446&page=2)

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-18
Sigh, hoping and trying eh.

Drop to a terminal, this is when no graphical UI is left, only the pure shell. Login. Now stop your users session
```

killall gdm

```

You'll get a notice that 2 processes aren't permitted, one killed.
Then do 
```

sudo -i
killall gdm

```

You ARE root now, what means you have changed you working dir from /home/<you> to /root. Now, whereever your script is located, copy it to /tmp/nvidia-driver for instance:
```

mkdir /tmp/nvidia-driver 
cp /<path>/<to>/NVIDIA.sh /tmp/nvidia-driver/ && cd /tmp/nvidia-driver
chmod +x NVIDIA.sh
./NVIDIA.sh && exit

```

This should work.

*edit*

Are you sure your script is called NVIDIA.sh? if not this won't work, I hope you're aware of yet missing AI in a shell---

---

### Post by AdarshN on 2008-11-18
Hey there loomsen and eternalnewbee,
I'll try those and get back to you.

BTW, the file is NVIDIA.**run** not NVIDIA.**sh**

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-18
Well then, change anything what I posted from NVIDIA.sh to NVIDIA.run and then copy and paste line per line. Oh, you wont be able to cause you'll have to drop into a shell.

Humm, maybe u want to create a textfile in your home dir, you could read it from a terminal with 
cat /<path>/<to>/file
and usually it should be enough to type the path to N and hit tab. I hit tab after almost every letter, adds a little security too. Like 1 time I named my xorg.conf xorg.sonf and kept wondering why my changes wouldn't apply...:)

---

### Post by AdarshN on 2008-11-20
Hi loomsen, I finally got it to work.
It just worked out of the blue, I did the same thing repeatedly and it worked.

It said that the file did not match the kernel, so I'm thinking this is the wrong package?

Please note that I cannot use the apt-get method, which is why I'm having to download the file via Windows and then use a flash drive to transfer it to Ubuntu.

I'll get back to you once I get the right driver file.
I need to check the driver changelogs at nVidia to get the right driver.

Thanks a lot, but I'll respond in this thread if I face any more difficulty.

---

### Post by loomsen on 2008-11-20
[Chose your card here](http://www.nvidia.com/Download/index.aspx?lang=en-us)

It will most likely tell you, if you have a somewhat newer card, to chose this one:

[177.82 nVidia Driver for 64bit architectures](http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/177.82/NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.82-pkg2.run)

Download it to you home folder, /home/<username> 

Then do the steps above, and it will work :)

*edit STEP by STEP*

Download the *.run to /home/<user>

Restart your computer, and chose to boot into single user mode (you might have to hit escape directly after your BIOS screen, so that you can chose what to boot from GRUB (you boot menu)

OK, boot into single user mode, you'll be prompted about some possible tasks, chose drop to root shell.
REPLACE <user> with your actual usernaame
Now do this:
```

mkdir /tmp/nvidia && cp /home/[color=red]<user>[/color]/NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.82-pkg2.run /tmp/nvidia/ && cd /tmp/nvidia

```

Now you should have changed your folder to /tmp/nvidia. ls will show you files in that folder, NVIDIA...run should be in it, however it is called.

now type
```

sh NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-177.82-pkg2.run

```


The installer should run and prompt you bout what to do now.
When finished, do this to run the nvidia autoconfiguration tool:
```

apt-get install nvidia-xconfig
```

You should be connected by wire, cause wireless won't work from the runlevel you're now in.
Ok, when installed, run
```

nvidia-xconfig

```

You will be told your xorg.conf has been generated, and the old one backed up.

now type
```
reboot
```

And everything should be fine.

---

