---
title: "9.04 runaway arecord process"
date: 2009-05-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rvndrk3233 on 2009-05-29
I wondered for the life of me why after leaving my PC running most of the day it sounds like its having a hard time cooling off.I have a 945 on a GCNL board.Naturally, this combo runs hot, will fry the chip if the fan is off, but I added a zalman fan recently when I replaced both the cpu and the board.

The issue seems not to be with dust in the fan so much[though it doesn't help.]

apparently asound gets launched as a background process, and as I have two cores runs at 100% cpu power, which, with unix, passes the process between the two cores(like it should).Its the 100% that keeps up and down revving my cpu fan.[added case fans also at that time.By far the quietest I have ever had, but the cpu fan still revs up like the cpu is mad at me.]

When I mean REV, i mean REV, like the stock intel racecar fan noise.These zalmen are quiet.If you hear the fan, something is wrong.[Or your running UT3 at full graphic mode for some time.Which I am not.]

Can someone please look into this issue with Jackalope? I like what you've done with the kernel and ext4, and I'd would love not having to downgrade.

I need wifi support, so less than 8.04 is out of the question.If not for asound, I'm running between 15-30% on both cores.I'm basically at idle.Loading the appearance pane seem to rev up quite a bit too.

Doesn't the nvidia driver SUPPOSED to offload video instructions from the CPU? Isn't that the intention on V-RAM? I have a 7300 GS nvidia if it helps.I do have the stock intel card onboard, but it doesn't do crap for games these days.

If your going to use graphics modes, USE them, offload to video.What is the big deal? Windows can do it.UT3 has physics that max out the cores, but if the cpu had to process the video too, it would fail.Seen the chip melt in less than a minute running UT3 on the old chip before I replaced it.

I'm just wondering where these runaway process are coming from and why the video seems to be handled by the CPU not the GPU inside the nvidia card.I'm running nvidia 180 drivers if it helps.

---

