---
title: "10.04 sound problem."
date: 2011-07-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Purplefire on 2011-07-31
Hi folks.
Im new on this forum, so please dont mind me whenever i do something wrong.
And also, i am Dutch. So somethimes i dont understand things that well..
Well lets start with the problem..
I got a Sony Vaio, with ubuntu 10.04 running on it. Everything was fine, exept for that i didnt had any sound when i wanted to listen music on youtube/my pc.
My sound sometimes work, sometimes it didnt. if it works, i and if i wanna listen to like pink floyd. im hearing like KSRKKRKKRKGGGGGGGGGGRKRKKSKSKSKSKSKSKGKGKI and i was hearing it softly. ( so the quality of poop )
and sometimes it just didnt worked. 
So erm i dunno which drivers i have.
i think thats my problem..
oh and by the way, i dunno if this helps. but my setup of my laptop and my monitor is like this :
i have a nice big monitor on my desk( actually just a small 23 or 24 inch one.) that monitor is connected to my laptop of where the lid is closed. the sound was coming from my monitor ( there boxes in it.. ) that is to connected with a wire to my laptop ( the sound )
on 10.10 and 11.04 and windows 7 was the sound fine, now on 10.04 the sound isnt working on my monitor, my headphones, or my laptop itself.
I dont want to change my os, or upgrade it to 10.10 or buy a new soundcard.
Thanks for helping =D

---

### Post by Purplefire on 2011-07-31
So if you wanna ask to my sound card; thats fine, but tell me how to see my card then to :)

---

### Post by tigerlxxv on 2011-08-01
Go to Applications (on the top panel), click Accessories, then click Terminal. type in
```

lspci

```

...And your audio hardware will be somewhere in the middle. You'll see a line that says Audio device: and has a bunch of hardware numbers etc. I had a phantom noise issue on mine, too, so I was hunting for driver until I found out that there was a problem with the cable I was using. If you copy and paste the output from lspci here, it'll be easier to help you.

---

### Post by Purplefire on 2011-08-01
Alright, i did what you sad.
This is the output from lspci :
```
01:00.1 Audio device: ATI Technologies Inc Manhattan HDMI Audio [Mobility Radeon HD 5000 Series]
```hope this will help.

---

