---
title: "12.04: Change login page"
date: 2012-07-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t0p on 2012-07-25
I prefer it when I have to type in my user name myself when logging in.  But 12.04 Ubuntu default login page puts it up there for all to see, so a malicious meanie doesn't have to figure it out, all he's gotta do is guess the password.

Can someone please tell me how to change login page?  Cheers.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-07-25
not sure to understand what your request is about :confused:

when you login with lightdm, the password is not readable :P (dots)

if you does not like lightdm, well its up to you to choose either gdm, xdm, ?dm ...

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-07-25
The method at the link describes how to replace/hide a user name with nobody. The problem I see is that nobody is still a user name and it is not clear what then appears in the login screen. 
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/92349/how-do-i-hide-a-particular-user-from-the-lightdm-login-screen](http://askubuntu.com/questions/92349/how-do-i-hide-a-particular-user-from-the-lightdm-login-screen)

Guessing a well crafted password is pretty difficult without software to do so. There also be a way of writing the option into light gdm.

---

### Post by t0p on 2012-07-25
On my previous Ubuntu installation, I booted up to a screen which just had a button marked "Log in".  I'd click that, then get a screen where it asked me for my user name and password.  I want something like that again.  But I got no idea how to change that login screen.  If someone would explain how, or point to a link to a Howto, that'd be most appreciated.

Talk of lightdm is meaningless to me I'm afraid. I'm running 12.04 Ubuntu with its default DM/GUI.  And my password is already represented with dots (isn't it always, in a GUI?).  I just don't want my username displayed til I have typed it in.

---

