---
title: "11.10 kernel ppa for 11.04 needed"
date: 2011-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by elliotn on 2011-10-21
Hi guys I need the 11.10 kernel repos so I can add it im my 11.04, I dont want to upgrade but only want the kernel. i know I can download the files but what I want is to be able to receive automatic updates for the kernel.:P

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-10-21
I think the meta packages will cause you to get updates for the kernel you are supposed to have not the one you are using . This has happened to some users , when the they received and installed kernel updates it downgraded the kernel . You are correct that you would need a PPA and launchpad is the best place to look .

---

### Post by holycow131415 on 2011-10-21
This? [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

Google searched ubuntu kernal ppa ;)

---

### Post by elliotn on 2011-10-21
> **holycow131415 said:**
> This? [http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

Google searched ubuntu kernal ppa ;)

that is what i did i downloaded the packages and installed them manually, it wont update

---

### Post by elliotn on 2011-10-23
anyone with a working repo

---

### Post by collisionystm on 2011-10-23
> **elliotn said:**
> that is what i did i downloaded the packages and installed them manually, it wont update

Did you satisfy all the dependencies? I tried this a few weeks ago on 10.04 trying to put in the 3.0 kernel. It was a mess!

---

### Post by elliotn on 2011-10-23
> **collisionystm said:**
> Did you satisfy all the dependencies? I tried this a few weeks ago on 10.04 trying to put in the 3.0 kernel. It was a mess!
yes I had no problem, here is the debs i downloaded

linux-headers-3.generic_all.deb
linux-headers-3.deb
linux-image-3.deb

---

### Post by elliotn on 2011-11-19
I need my system to auto update this....someone come with an idea plz

---

