---
title: "(13.10) /dev/mapper/ubuntu--vg-swap_1 is not ready or not present"
date: 2013-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by apa2 on 2013-10-23
This is frustrating as heck, I moved away from Windows 7 OS because of issues, errors, and such and was sold to Ubuntu because it was supposed to be reliable, and now errors and issues right after installing 12.04 with dev/mapper/cryptswap1 and then got 13.10 to replace it, hoping issue was gone and now it's still here anyway but different message reference. 

I only have ONE hard drive, it's 1TB and it only had Windows 7 on it and was never really used at all. I formatted it during both Ubuntu version installations. So not sure WHY this issue keeps sporadically happening...!? It's not happening all the time though, just here and there after the computer has been shut off for few hours each time. 

My output for "cat /etc/fstab" is...
 

```
    cat /etc/fstab
    # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
    #
    # Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
    # device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
    # that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
    #
    # <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
    /dev/mapper/ubuntu--vg-root /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
    # /boot was on /dev/sda1 during installation
    UUID=737f749f-8ef5-4744-953f-81422ffc9000 /boot           ext2    defaults        0       2
    /dev/mapper/ubuntu--vg-swap_1 none            swap    sw              0       0
    /dev/mapper/cryptswap1 none swap sw 0 0
```


My output for "sudo blkid" is...

```
    /dev/sda1: UUID="737f749f-8ef5-4744-953f-81422ffc9000" TYPE="ext2" 
    /dev/sda5: UUID="12bd13d8-f3ac-4606-828b-671c396d36f5" TYPE="crypto_LUKS" 
    /dev/mapper/sda5_crypt: UUID="jdUrXq-YfKr-eB52-oPOv-NLks-nyBK-p5ER2H" TYPE="LVM2_member" 
    /dev/mapper/ubuntu--vg-root: UUID="2b450222-9a24-4c38-97aa-e4d2e83e94c6" TYPE="ext4" 
    /dev/mapper/cryptswap1: UUID="59fa5eff-d30f-4d1a-aa97-46fec43e805c" TYPE="swap" 
```

I'm just not sure WHY this issue would be happening though, it doesn't make sense. The hard drive itself should be fine, reads as healthy and etc. Ubuntu SHOULD be correctly assigning the privledges, running swap right, and etc Starting to wonder if I should just go back to Windows 7, or Linux Mint, or some other Linux OS but they have same issues I'm sure..

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-10-23
How exactly did you set up the cryptswap? I don't really know anything about it,but it seems odd to me that you would have both encrypted and non-encrypted swaps i your fstab

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-10-23
You installed with full disk encryption which uses LVM, an advanced logical partition scheme that overlays the physical partitions. Many say that offers advantages as they you can more easily resize partitions, but you cannot use the standard tools to change partitions but have to use LVM tools.

       Resizing your encrypted file system can not be done directly as of yet with Gparted as Gparted sees the encrypted partitions as unformatted space.
How to: Resize an Encrypted Partition (LUKS)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4530641](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=4530641)
How to Resize a LUKS Encrypted File System.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=726724](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=726724)

    
 Advantages/Disadvantages LVM Post #9
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1586328](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1586328)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lvm](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Lvm)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuDesktopLVM](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuDesktopLVM)
lvm How-To info older:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=141900](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=141900)
[http://tldp.org/HOWTO/LVM-HOWTO/index.html](http://tldp.org/HOWTO/LVM-HOWTO/index.html)

Be sure to have good back up procedures with LVM or encryption. All the low level disk recovery or repair tools will not be able to see into the encryption, so backups are vital.

---

### Post by apa2 on 2013-10-23
Thanks for the replies... That's correct, I installed from a DVD with the 13.10 ISO on disk and installed it with /home encryption and the other LVM encryption option for full disk encryption to be able to resize and etc. I think I did that, cause there was another option I wanted but I couldn't install that option without doing the whole LVM encryption deal. I originally had 12.04 TLS and kept getting the "[dev/mapper/cryptswap1]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182539")" issue as well.. After at least 20 or so installs / reinstalls, trying different tips, suggestions, and possible fixes... for 12.04 TLS, I went to do 13.10 version. 

Then another 10 to 15 installs / reinstalls with that, trying different suggestions and such that I found through google searching. I've been doing all this installing and reinstalling and trying different options, tips and etc since this past Friday or Saturday when I first decided to go with Ubuntu. So since past Friday/Saturday till today (Weds 10/23/2013) I've done at least 30 installs / re-installs. >_<. And apparently this "Issue" is OS related, which means the developers need to handle this, and not expect nOObs and soccer moms trying to switch from crappy Windows to Ubuntu to fix it. Since 2000 when I first got online, I've been using Windows OS. I'm sure most others like soccer moms, and other nOObs so used to Windows OSes told to switch or "sold" to switch from Windows to Ubuntu (or general other Linux OSes) would rather just stick on Windows. 

In a sense, all (possible hundreds/thousands) nOObs coming from "crappy Windows", will end up getting those errors/warnings at boot up before login screen, and all of them, like myself, will try and be "mr/mrs fix it", when we shouldn't have to do it. It should be fixed by developers themselves. I know it's open source and free of course too, so not everything will be amazing and bug free all the time. Sorry for my frustration / tone, just wasted how many days trying to play "mr fix it" since past Friday/Saturday till today (Weds). Lol! 

I guess I'll reinstall AGAIN then, and just not pick that LVM option this time... sigh. So should I expect to still get that normal "[dev/mapper/cryptswap1]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182539")" issue too? God I hope not.. Lol! Should I be mounting the partitions? Or, mounting the "disks" or whatever? Then do encryption later..? One thing I found odd, when I was doing manual UUID edits to files like suggested from "guides" and other threads... The UUIDs kept randomly changing too, so my edits weren't really doing as expected. Thanks for those links, I'll check those out. Thanks again for replies, and again I apologize for the tone. It's just been frustrating is all, I could have been happy and using Ubuntu in general for the past several days, instead of installing/re-installing and playing "mr fix it". Lol!

Quick Note: This "issue/message" appears a couple times after fresh 13.10 install, then goes away after few reboots. But if computer is shut off for several hours, then rebooted.. it tends to appear. But if I keep computer running for hours, and not active and just doing reboots.. it tends to go away. So I'm not sure what's going on there lol

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-10-23
I avoid trying to help those with LVM or encryption, but end up occasionally as it seems that few use it or it always works as we do not see a lot of issues. And few that volunteer to help know it either.

As with anything else some have issues and it may vary by hardware and users knowledge. 
I do not consider LVM for new users although I understand some may want encryption.

---

### Post by apa2 on 2013-10-23
> **oldfred said:**
> I avoid trying to help those with LVM or encryption, but end up occasionally as it seems that few use it or it always works as we do not see a lot of issues. And few that volunteer to help know it either.

As with anything else some have issues and it may vary by hardware and users knowledge. 
I do not consider LVM for new users although I understand some may want encryption.

I guess I can't blame you for occasionally avoiding to help those with encryption. Lol! Would be nice though if they had a dedicated team of "helpers" for the encryption users and make dedicated support forum for those with encryption enabled, and the developers should probably reconsider prepackaging it in the OS itself. Maybe make encryption a side feature/ option that can be installed later on. Although, there is the option to NOT install it when you're installing Ubuntu itself. 

The whole "selling point(s)" or "reasons" to switch from Windows to Ubuntu that I've seen around the internet, is Ubuntu is more secure, less viruses hit Ubuntu compared to Windows, you don't need XX to XXX different anti-virus protection installed on Ubuntu, it encrypts hard drive during installation or after it (Which you can encrypt hard drive for with Windows as well), better performance, less security holes, less bloated, less general errors and etc. As I write this from my Windows 7 OS tower, looking at my desktop it's FILLED with icons and anti-virus programs and etc. I can barely see my desktop, because there's so many different anti-virus programs, "protection" programs, text files with guides on how to speed up Windows, privacy programs like TOR (which lately I've heard even TOR is corrupt/endangered by FBI, and told not to use it) and many other things to improve this, fix that, and etc etc. 

If I didn't care about my privacy, didn't care how my OS performed, didn't care about having to fix bugs/issues/errors, didn't care about having to run anti-virus / anti-malware programs once or twice a week... I'd just spend/waste hours and many days and just stick with Windows 7 (like I obviously already did, spend/waste hours and days trying to keep Windows 7 secure or safe"). But I hate doing all of that, because I dealt with Windows OSes since 1999/2000 and I'm tired of it all. I want my computer to run fast, perform better, have better privacy tools there, have less anti-virus tools and etc installed. I'm loving Ubuntu though, despite this little "issue" / error message or whatever it's considered. I'm now a trooper for Ubuntu from here out, and I wouldn't care if I had to reinstall/install Ubuntu 100 times, to "iron out issues", because I'd rather use it and have it, versus Windows. ;)

I dunno, I guess I'll attempt another install of Ubuntu then and see what happens. Lol!

---

### Post by apa2 on 2013-10-23
Damn it, so I reinstalled it all and chose NOT to do the LVM encrypt option, but only encryption of /home at the screen to enter name, computer name, password, etc.. And I got that "[dev/mapper/cryptswap1]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182539")" message/issue again! Sigh, I give up! :(

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-10-24
Not sure if you have to remove old LVM partitions first. I would have expected new install to do that.

But encrypted /home also encrypts swap and gparted will show an error on swap as it cannot see it like a normal swap. 

Post link to this report:

 Post the link to the BootInfo report that this creates. Is part of Boot-Repair:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Info)
Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration and diagnose advanced problems.

---

