---
title: "9.04: Nautilus behaviour when usb drive attached"
date: 2009-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-11-06
Sometimes when I plug in a thumb drive a Nautilus window is launched.  Other times, no window.  The drive always auto-mounts though.  Any clues on why this might happen?

On a related note, is there a way to disable this auto-launching for stuff mounted by HAL?

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-06
I think it's because you quote Patrick Henry instead of Thomas Paine. ;)

If trying that change doesn't help, and I admit that it probably won't, you could try opening a terminal window and entering
```
tail -f /var/log/syslog
```
and watching what happens as you insert the USB devices.

HAL is completely configurable via gconftool2.

---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-11-06
[QUOTE="Thomas Paine"]Arms discourage and keep the invader and plunderer in awe, and preserve order in the world as well as property... Horrid mischief would ensue were the law-abiding deprived of the use of them.[/QUOTE]

There's a Paine quote, same theme even!  But my thumb drive still causes Nautilus to launch only sometimes...

syslog is great fun, but nothing stands out in the different situations.  The drives are physically identical though the partition tables differ, but either way they mount without error.  Meh, if it really bothered me I would have dealt with it long ago.  I'll look into gconftool2 though, thanks.

---

### Post by John Bean on 2009-11-06
> **alphaniner said:**
> Sometimes when I plug in a thumb drive a Nautilus window is launched.  Other times, no window.  The drive always auto-mounts though.  Any clues on why this might happen?
It probably depends on the content. If Nautilus recognises certain contentt (pictures, say) it will act in an appropriate way, chosen by you at some point. If not it opens the folder to browse by default.

> On a related note, is there a way to disable this auto-launching for stuff mounted by HAL?Not a HAL thing, it's a Nautilus thing. This will do the trick:
```
 gconftool-2 --type boolean -s /apps/nautilus/preferences/media_automount_open false
```A similar setting without the "_open" on the end controls automount.

---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-11-06
> **John Bean said:**
> Not a HAL thing, it's a Nautilus thing.

I just meant that HAL does the mounting.  Or plays some role in it.  Or something.

> **John Bean said:**
> It probably depends on the content. If Nautilus recognises certain contentt (pictures, say) it will act in an appropriate way, chosen by you at some point. If not it opens the folder to browse by default.

The one that does launch contains a file that is considered a 'Microsoft icon' by Nautilus (even though it isn't), so I guess that could be it.  

In any case, the command you gave did the trick.  Thanks.

---

