---
title: "./configure can't find zlib.h"
date: 2010-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ketan_bnf on 2010-11-13
[SIZE=3]Hi all,

I am a bioinformatician i am trying to install one of my software named MAQ, on ubuntu biolinux when i try to configure, it can't locate zlib.h. But zlib.h file is present in /usr/src/linux-headres-2.6.32-21-generic/include/linux. Why it is not detecting this file? I am pasting result after applying ./configure.

checking for a BSD-compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking for a thread-safe mkdir -p... /bin/mkdir -p
checking for gawk... gawk
checking whether make sets $(MAKE)... yes
checking build system type... x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
checking host system type... x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu
checking for gcc... gcc
checking for C compiler default output file name... a.out
checking whether the C compiler works... yes
checking whether we are cross compiling... no
checking for suffix of executables... 
checking for suffix of object files... o
checking whether we are using the GNU C compiler... yes
checking whether gcc accepts -g... yes
checking for gcc option to accept ISO C89... none needed
checking for g++... g++
checking whether we are using the GNU C++ compiler... yes
checking whether g++ accepts -g... yes
checking if gcc accepts -m64... yes
checking how to run the C preprocessor... gcc -E
checking for grep that handles long lines and -e... /bin/grep
checking for egrep... /bin/grep -E
checking for ANSI C header files... yes
checking for sys/types.h... yes
checking for sys/stat.h... yes
checking for stdlib.h... yes
checking for string.h... yes
checking for memory.h... yes
checking for strings.h... yes
checking for inttypes.h... yes
checking for stdint.h... yes
checking for unistd.h... yes
[COLOR=Red][B]checking zlib.h usability... no
checking zlib.h presence... no
checking for zlib.h... no[/B][/COLOR]
configure: creating ./config.status
config.status: creating Makefile
config.status: creating config.h
config.status: config.h is unchanged

Pls help me
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-11-13
try installing zlib1g-dev

---

### Post by ketan_bnf on 2010-11-15
> **mc4man said:**
> try installing zlib1g-dev
Thanks for your help.


i have downloaded zlib from [www.zlib.net](www.zlib.net) and installed it successfully, but after installing zlib, when i restart my pc it halts and doesn't prompt for  user login, and that's it, then it will not go further, why?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-11-16
> then it will not go further, why?
Well clearly it needs zlib1g and you've replaced it. What possessed you to do that rather than just installing the zlib1g-dev package available in your ubuntu repo I can't figure.
(or simply ask 'where is zlib1g-dev'

If you didn't have to log in than you'd probably boot to your desktop w/ errors but you'd get there.

Easiest way to recover is if you didn't delete your zlib source folder and used a 'sudo make install' to install it AND you remember the path to the source folder

If so then boot to recovery mode, pick the 1st option 'resume' ...
At the prompt login and then cd to the source folder. When there run
```

sudo make uninstall
```
After that's done, for good measure run 
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall zlib1g
```
Then sudo reboot and you'll be fine

As an Ex. (example only!) zlib-1.2.5 in Downloads
> cd ~/Downloads/zlib-1.2.5
sudo make uninstall


If you used some other method to install post what.

If you can't remember the path or figure it out then boot to a live cd and find it, then do the above 
 or
 
from the live cd browse as root to 
/usr/local/lib and delete the 3 zlib  .so files and the libz.a file
/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig/ and delete zlib.pc, 
/usr/local/include and delete the 2 zlib .h files
/usr/local/share/doc and delete the zlib folder 
/usr/local/man/man3/ and delete the zlib.3.gz if there 
Then exit live cd and reboot (if need be boot as above to recovery mode and re-install zlib1g or possibly just sudo ldconfig

---

