---
title: "8.04 Hardy &amp; Radeon HD4850 problems w/ Desktop Display after Synaptic update"
date: 2009-07-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hsere on 2009-07-18
System Info:
Version: Hardy 8.04, Kernel 2.6.24-19 Generic, booting with all_generic_ide
Hardware: ASUS P5Q mobo, Intel Dual Core 3.0 GHz CPU, 2.0 GiB RAM, ATI Radeon HD4850 Video Card running restricted "fglrx" drivers, HP w1907 1440x900 LCD Monitor.

I had previously had problems getting my video card to function properly with Ubuntu 8.04, particularly with my wide-screen monitor.  With help from these forums, I managed to resolve the issue.  Original thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1024465").

Synaptic's updates seemed to undo my fix, but I managed to solve that by just reinstalling the ATI fglrx drivers from their website.  Original thread [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1037650").

This occurred for subsequent Synaptic updates, and I could generally fix the problem by reinstalling the drivers again.  However, after I ran Synaptic's Update today and did the above-described actions, the windows in ubuntu move with a lot of lag and tearing, and scrolling is similarly slow.  I also can't enable desktop effects (it gives me the good old "desktop effects could not be enabled" message when I try).

I hadn't run Synaptic Update for several months, so I'm not sure what exactly caused this problem (yes, I know, I'm bad.  *Smacks self on wrist*).

Any help anyone can give would be appreciated.  Here's my xorg file, in case it helps:

```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig-Screen[0]-0" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Option		"VendorName"	"ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option		"ModelName"	"Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Driver		"fglrx"
	Option		"EnableMonitor"	"crt1,lvds,tv,tmds1,crt2,tmds2,cv,tmds2i"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"aticonfig-Screen[0]-0"
	Device		"aticonfig-Device[0]-0"
	Monitor		"aticonfig-Monitor[0]-0"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport	0	0
		Depth	24
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2009-07-19
Ubuntu 8.04.01 used kernel 2.6.24.19.  your recent update most likely moved you to 8.04.03 using kernel 2.6.24.24.xx. may be that new kernel is not playing nice with your system and you need to go back to old kernel.

---

### Post by Hsere on 2009-07-19
My System Monitor is showing my kernel version as "2.6.24-19-generic," so I don't think that's it.  Anyone have any other ideas?

---

### Post by Hsere on 2009-07-20
Bump

---

### Post by ruehara on 2009-07-21
I've got a very similar situation on my Dell quad 4 with Jaunty.

I'm getting sick of these "updates" which only serve to slow your system down. That's the reason why I left Bill Gates in the first place.

I'm now going to reinstall Jaunty _**again**_ and this time I'll turn off all the updates. At least that way I'll have the system I evaluated.

---

### Post by Hsere on 2009-07-27
I'm not sure if this helps, but the problem doesn't seem to occur with scroll bars inside other windows (for example, I can scroll down within this post window just fine, but the main Firefox window scroll bar is still choppy).  Still trying to find a way to resolve this problem.

---

### Post by Hsere on 2009-08-23
Several weeks later, have installed the latest Synaptic updates and the latest ATI drivers, and the problem still persists.  I tried going back to the last version of the ATI drivers that worked without tearing/slowdown, but that just gave me the black screen problem again.  Just checking to see if anyone has any other ideas.

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2009-08-23
If you have more than one version of fglrx kernel modules in your system, a kernel update will fail to build any kernel modules and so the driver will not work properly due to missing kernel modules. If you watch in the terminal while the kernel update proceeds you will see messages about this.

The most common cause of this is failure to remove old drivers before installing new ones. If you want to fix this you need to purger fglrx to remove all the old drivers and kernel modules and then reinstall just one driver. It only takes a few minutes and is worth the trouble.

After that kernel updates should build the kernel modules properly and you will not have this problem again until you forget to remove the driver before installing a new one.

I had this problem for a while but since I purged fglrx and reinstalled one driver and remembered to remove the old driver before installing a new one I have not had this problem in Hardy or Intrepid or Jaunty. Kernel updates build the modules properly and everything is good, every time.


This is neither a failure on the kernel devs part or any fault of ati. The kernel  cannot possibly decide which kernel modules it should build when it is faced with more than one with the same name. The ati installer instructions specifically tell you to remove old drivers before installing new ones and even tell you how to do it.

rtfm.

---

### Post by Hsere on 2009-09-05
Problem Solved.  See duplicate thread in "Multimedia and Video" [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1247907").

---

