---
title: "10.04 : Shutdown/Logout Panel missing"
date: 2010-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bjordan1979 on 2010-07-12
I added a Netspeed applet to my top panel. It screwed up my Me Menu and Logout menu, so I removed it, rebooted. However after the reboot my menu's are still screwed up.

See the attached screen shot.

The Me Menu works however if I click where the logout menu is supposed to be I don't get anything.

Any advice on out to reset it or fixed it would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-12
did you try removing it & adding it back, you'll need to unlock the other applets to get it back on the end. (tip: middle click drag the applet where you want it)

---

### Post by bjordan1979 on 2010-07-12
Yeah, when I move it it stays as the "bjordxbjordan" view seen in the screen shot. However the logout menu is completely gone when I move everything to the left.

If I "add to panel" what are the me menu and logout applets? I don't see anything that appears to be them. User Switcher, Logout, Shutdown, etc are not the same as the default one. I'd rather not have to recreate the menu's myself.

Is there any way to reset them?

---

### Post by lordskid on 2010-07-12
don't do anything drastic first try replacing or restarting ur panel.

```

gnome-panel --replace

```

another thing to do is to remove visual effects and reset it back to your preference.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-13
> If I "add to panel" what are the me menu and logout applets?

it's the 1's that start with "indicator", sorry i'm not using gnome panel, so i don't know the exact wording.

if you get desperate you can delete ~/.gconf/apps/panel & log out, that should set it back to default. that's a hidden folder so you need to press-> **ctrl+h** <-in your file manager to see them.

---

### Post by bjordan1979 on 2010-07-13
Thanks guys, I'll try the advice above as soon as I get home.

---

### Post by bjordan1979 on 2010-07-13
Well I came home tonight booted up and my me menu and logout applet was back to normal. However my volume/sound control one is gone .. sigh 

I'll try the advice above later to reset it and see how it works.

---

### Post by bjordan1979 on 2010-07-13
> **lordskid said:**
> don't do anything drastic first try replacing or restarting ur panel.

```

gnome-panel --replace

```another thing to do is to remove visual effects and reset it back to your preference.

Actually this did the trick and fixed all of it! Thank you!!!

---

### Post by cool_penguin on 2010-10-10
I wonder if this has been fixed at all. I just upgraded to 10.10 and the problem seems to persist. 

Anyway, gnome-panel --replace seems to fix it. 

Cheers,
Harry

---

### Post by rykel on 2010-10-23
Hi, I am running 10.10 Maverick and this "missing Shutdown button" problem is still there! In the past, I resorted to delete-and-recreate the default panels. However, **gnome-panel --replace** did solve it and is a much better solution. Thank you so much. I only wish that Ubuntu developers would pay attention to such an obvious bug... imagine the uproar in Windows world if the START button went missing!

---

### Post by m2orris on 2010-11-07
Yeah I am experiencing the same thing in Ubuntu 10.10 amd64.  I get two "me menu"s next to each other. The right most does not work and it covers the "power menu".

Using the following restores it:

gnome-panel --replace

However I agree that this should not happen in the first place.

m2orris

---

### Post by yusuf.hm on 2010-12-03
> **kerry_s said:**
> if you get desperate you can delete ~/.gconf/apps/panel & log out, that should set it back to default. 

that one worked for me!! thanks a lot!!

---

### Post by Neobuntu on 2011-02-04
What the bloody ....!

issued command:

gnome-panel --replace

and got...

"Unable to open desktop file /usr/share/applications/iceweasel.desktop for panel launcher: No such file or directory"

What does iceweasel have to do with my Ubuntu? I use Ubuntu's Firefox current? 

That command also removed gnome panel **ALTOGETHER**!

I'm reporting, the problem still exists.

I agree, this is the kind of thing that should **never** happen. This is NOT NOT NOT NOT NOT, my day, for futzing with the computer; to get logout to work! I hope someone can understand the importance, here. 

Anyone have a fix?

I partly recovered by holding Alt and pressing the Tab key, to get back to the terminal. I issued the command again, and this time it said the "Workplace switcher" was failing and gave option to delete it and I did. My panels came back, but still with no logout or shutdown, under "System". ...and no Workplace switcher; but I added that back.

---

### Post by rykel on 2011-02-05
Guys, Replacing the Panel is NOT a permanent solution, because a reboot might bring back the same problem. OMG.

I found another temporary solution that does NOT require a complete delete of the panels. It always work for me.

[LIST=1]
[*]Right-click anywhere on the panel
[*]Properties
[*]Show and then Un-show Hide Buttons
[/LIST]

---

### Post by foxz on 2011-04-21
> **lordskid said:**
> don't do anything drastic first try replacing or restarting ur panel.

```

gnome-panel --replace

```another thing to do is to remove visual effects and reset it back to your preference.


Great! Got a solution. Thanks dude.

---

