---
title: "17.10 issues"
date: 2018-01-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hmiersch on 2018-01-27
hi. i recently updated from 16.04 to 17.10, and now i have a few issues: - the login window: i chose my user account and entered my password. it accepted my passport but still kicked me back to the login screen. this happened with both the admin and user accounts. the only way around this was to click on the little gear icon next to the login button and select unity instead of xorg. whayts going on here? i mean, unity gives me the UI i'm familiar with, but id like to try the other option too... - the second issue may or may not be related to the first one. in 16.04 i could easily switch users by clicking on the gear icon in the top left corner and selecting another account. now that doesnt work anymore. when i select an account in that menu, nothing happens. the only way to switch users is to log out, then log into the other account. very inconvenient. anything i can do about this? - also, now my laptop (a 2012 macbook pro) seems to think that it has 2 built in displays. i dont know if this is because of 17.10 or because of the repairs i had to get done. so is there anything i can do about it? i have OSX on an external HD so i could see what OSX has to say about this...

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-01-28
How does 17.10.1 work in a live boot?

---

### Post by hmiersch on 2018-01-28
> **mörgæs said:**
> How does 17.10.1 work in a live boot?  

???
live boot?

---

### Post by tinylagarto on 2018-01-28
Which is the other option besides Unity that you want to try? I guess it is Gnome, maybe with Wayland and that could be the problem. Which is your default desktop environment?

> **hmiersch said:**
> ???
live boot?

The live boot is from the live CD or USB after you downloaded Ubuntu 17.10 and copied it to it before installing it to the hard disk.

---

### Post by hmiersch on 2018-01-29
i think the other option is "ubuntu on Xorg". like i said, that option keeps kicking me back to the login screen, in both accounts.

no, i didnt put 17.10 on a USB stick and install it from there, i used the software updater.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2018-01-29
I know. That's why I suggest trying the live boot for comparison.

---

