---
title: "Win 10 --&gt; 18.04 SAMBA share fails even though the log indicates success!"
date: 2018-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fi112222 on 2018-05-19
The Samba server is in out of the box configuration with just one share:
```
[Partage]
   comment = Partage
   path = /users/fi11222/disk-partage
   browsable = yes
   read only = no
   create mask = 0755
```
Full smb.conf: [https://pastebin.com/gG7TZRnc](https://pastebin.com/gG7TZRnc)

The user 'fi11222' has been added to Samba with 'smbpasswd -a fi11222' and the share appears correctly in testparm.

When trying to connect to the share from the Windows 10 file explorer (right-click "this PC" --> "Add a network location"), I am prompted for a user and password:
[IMG]https://ibb.co/iRkMFo[/IMG][IMG]https://ibb.co/iRkMFo[/IMG][IMG]https://image.ibb.co/gFaz1T/Prompt.png[/IMG]
The connection fails:
[IMG]https://image.ibb.co/m5QSo8/Errm.png[/IMG]
Sorry for the French ... Translation (blue text) : Windows cannot access \\ERD01\Partage
Bottom message: The network path could not be found

However, the Samba log (/var/log/Samba/log.192.168.0.103) seems to indicate success:
```
[2018/05/19 19:05:52.913453,  4] ../source3/auth/pampass.c:567(smb_pam_account)
  smb_pam_account: PAM: Account Management for User: fi11222
[2018/05/19 19:05:52.913962,  4] ../source3/auth/pampass.c:586(smb_pam_account)
  smb_pam_account: PAM: Account OK for User: fi11222
[2018/05/19 19:05:52.914476,  4] ../source3/auth/pampass.c:465(smb_pam_end)
  smb_pam_end: PAM: PAM_END OK.
[2018/05/19 19:05:52.914537,  5] ../source3/auth/auth.c:283(auth_check_ntlm_password)
  check_ntlm_password:  PAM Account for user [fi11222] succeeded
[2018/05/19 19:05:52.914566,  2] ../source3/auth/auth.c:314(auth_check_ntlm_password)
  check_ntlm_password:  authentication for user [fi11222] -> [fi11222] -> [fi11222] succeeded

```
Full log of the authentication transaction: [https://pastebin.com/JDL2KKEq](https://pastebin.com/JDL2KKEq)

I was previously using SAMBA on a 16.04 LTS server and never encountered this problem.

One additional remark: I cannot "see" the Samba server from the 'Network' section of the Win 10 file explorer. It does not matter how many time I wait or refresh or reboot, it won't show up. This is also new. I never encounterd this problem on 16.04, although the Windows machine was the same. Both SSH and HTTP work fine between the two machines.

---

### Post by fi112222 on 2018-05-20
bump

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2018-05-20
So what have you done to determine the cause of the problem?

Did you check the local path to the shared folder to see if fi11222 has access through each folder?
ls -dl /users
ls -dl /users/fi11222
ls -dl /users/fi11222/disk-partage

Did you see if you could bypass the whole netbios thing and access the samba server with it's mDNS qualified host name:
```
\\erd01.local\partage
```

As for not being able to "see" the samba server under Network Win10 has been doing something "funny" lately: 
> Windows 10 Home and Windows 10 Professional still contain
the SMBv1 client by default after a clean installation. If the
SMBv1 client is not used for 15 days in total (excluding the
computer being turned off), it automatically uninstalls itself.
No smb1 on the client means no host discovery on the client --- at least no netbios host name discovery. It doesn't mean it can't address the server with it's netbios name it just means it can't "discover" or "browse" to find the server. Win10 uses WS-Discovery to find other Windows boxes. There is no direct counterpart in Linux. There is mDNS however which is very close in principle to WSD and WIn10 can do that but unlike macOS and Linux Win10 cannot "browse" to find the hosts. You have to access it explicitly.

---

