---
title: "11.04 Boots Slow"
date: 2011-07-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zami on 2011-07-13
It takes 4-5 minutes to start up my computer, and it's driving me nuts.

I know that's not a HORRIBLE start-time, but for years, Ubuntu started up lickety-split for me, on several different machines.

This slow problem began when I upgraded to... wow, whatever first used Plymouth.  I'm currently on a fresh (as opposed to upgraded from another edition) 11.04, and it's just painfully slow to watch this thing start up.

Where do I begin to trouble shoot this?

Some info... 
OS: Ubuntu 11.04 x86_64 (fresh install, not upgrade)
Kernel: 2.6.38-10-generic
Memory: 3.8GiB
Processor: Intel i5 M540 @ 2.53GHZ (listed four times in system monitor?)

Thanks for any suggestions!

-zami

edit:
I'm going to try to disable Legacy USB in the BIOS.

(It's frustrating how my search through the forum search function finds no matches, but a google search will find Ubuntu forum matches.)

---

### Post by zami on 2011-07-13
Well, disabling the Legacy USB support in BIOS helped considerably.  It's now 1 minute, 10 seconds.  (Yep, got out the stopwatch.)

That is still frustratingly slow.  Karmic booted in a matter of seconds on this machine.  (And didn't have that awful 800x600 mauve logo - blech.  Or crash when I tried to change the xplash image, and the toggle for quiet-splash actually worked.)

-zami

---

### Post by devil103 on 2011-07-14
I'm experiencing similar issues on a

Fresh 11.04 installation on an LVM volume with seperate /boot partition.
I'm running into 90s boottime with no GUI, just XBMC (media center) running in a new AMD Fusion APU clocked at 1.6 GHz with 4 GB of RAM.

I'm now in the process of running bootchart and creating .png files with pybootchartgui. Perhaps something you could try as well.

---

### Post by EricDHH on 2011-07-24
Take a look at Bug 774704, is this your problem? Till today no developer has looked at it, 11.04 is the slowest booting ubuntu ever.

---

