---
title: ".deb packages don't install"
date: 2012-08-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mndmdvrantm on 2012-08-25
I downloaded HandBrake earlier, it not being in Ubuntu's repositories, and when I open the .deb file it just opens in the archive manager. Same thing happens with all other .deb files I attempt to open. Is it possible the file association is broken? How do I go about fixing or circumventing this?

P.S. This is a clean install of Xubuntu 12.04 x86-64, that I just installed a few hours ago. All I've done so far is install various programs (VLC, Deluge, etc.) with synaptic, run an update, and mucked around with the appearance settings. I have no idea how I could have done this.

---

### Post by codemaniac on 2012-08-25
Can you try dpkg from commandline to install the package .

```
dpkg -i package_deb
```

man dpkg for more info .

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-08-25
I don't know if Xubuntu uses Software Center, but right-click on the *.deb and see if it offers you the choice to open it with Software Center. You could also use gdebi for the same purpose, but you would need to install it first, ```
sudo apt-get install gdebi
```

---

### Post by mndmdvrantm on 2012-08-25
> **codemaniac said:**
> Can you try dpkg from commandline to install the package .

```
dpkg -i package_deb
```man dpkg for more info .
Thanks, that worked. Is there any way to restore the ability to install by opening in the file manager though?

EDIT: Just saw oldos2er's post. Installed gdebi and I'm able to install packages from thunar. Thanks.

---

### Post by evilsoup on 2012-08-25
I know this thread is marked as solved, but I would just like to add that [there is a PPA]("https://launchpad.net/%7Estebbins/+archive/handbrake-releases") for handbrake, you can add it with

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:stebbins/handbrake-releases
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install ghb

---

