---
title: "NetworkManager overwriting resolv.conf in Jaunty"
date: 2009-06-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by axl256 on 2009-06-08
I've got a machine at work and a machine at home - both upgraded to Jaunty recently. Both have static IPs configured in /etc/network/interfaces

The one at work however seems to get it's /etc/resolv.conf overwritten all the time. I assume it's by NetworkManager (whatever that is) as the only contents in the file are:
> # Generated by NetworkManager

Does anyone know why this is happening? It's really annoying!

I've seen a few hacks (like giving the file the immutable flag) but I'd like to properly fix the system, not hack it.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2009-06-08
Once you have connection working type in terrminal

```
sudo /etc/init.d/networking restart
```

That should help.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2009-06-08
The new Network Manager seems to work better than previous versions (I skipped Hardy and Intrepid, so didn't experience their NM firsthand).  When I had DHCP problems on Jaunty, I built a manual configuration in Network Manager. It seemed to work properly.  The manual configuration also gives you the opportunity to input DNS servers.

---

### Post by axl256 on 2009-06-09
Thanks guys. Have restarted the networking init.d script and will see if that fixes it. Seems OK so far.

---

### Post by axl256 on 2009-06-10
I'm afraid this didn't work. Came in today and had an empty resolv.conf (apart from the header saying NetworkManager is in control of it).

Any other ideas?

---

