---
title: "10.10: Numlock support"
date: 2010-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-11-07
I note with interest how many posts there are along the lines of "why isn't there support for Numlock On by default in Ubuntu?". I have the same question - and I have looked through the many, many posts on this subject. I am sorry to discover that I am unable to find one single 'solution' that actually does this in 10.10 on my system.

Surely it can't be so difficult that after many years of Ubuntu releases that this still doesn't work? I cannot remember how long ago it was that this service was the default in Windows.

Is there a fix for this on 10.10 - that really works?

---

### Post by awi on 2010-11-07
> **XEtedBear said:**
> I note with interest how many posts there are along the lines of "why isn't there support for Numlock On by default in Ubuntu?". I have the same question - and I have looked through the many, many posts on this subject. I am sorry to discover that I am unable to find one single 'solution' that actually does this in 10.10 on my system.

Surely it can't be so difficult that after many years of Ubuntu releases that this still doesn't work? I cannot remember how long ago it was that this service was the default in Windows.

Is there a fix for this on 10.10 - that really works?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock)

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-07
Did you already see this fix?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock)

The one you mentioned is already an idea on brainstorm.

[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/3596/](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/3596/)

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-11-09
> **awi said:**
> [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock)

Yep, that was the first one I tried. It doesn't work on my system. Not surprising really: the ref. URL doesn't apply to Maverick Meerkat, so is not relevant to my problem.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-11-09
> **sikander3786 said:**
> Did you already see this fix?

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/NumLock)

The one you mentioned is already an idea on brainstorm.

[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/3596/](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/3596/)


I assume from this that you are confirming that there is no current solution to this problem in 10.10? 

Incredible....

---

### Post by Verbeck on 2010-11-09
i remember the instructions in the community documentation working for lucid..

anyway, adding **/usr/bin/numlockx on** on the line next to  **/sbin/initctl -q emit login-session-start DISPLAY_MANAGER=gdm** works. doesn't light up the LED but works fine (lights up after login), not sure whether its safe or not though

edit: you've got to have numlockx installed first!!

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-11-09
> **Verbeck said:**
> ... adding **/usr/bin/numlockx on** on the line next to  **/sbin/initctl -q emit login-session-start DISPLAY_MANAGER=gdm** works. 

And where would I find this line?

---

### Post by Verbeck on 2010-11-09
> **XEtedBear said:**
> And where would I find this line?
/etc/gdm/Init/Default
```
sudo gedit /etc/gdm/Init/Default
```

i assumed you read the community documentation

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-11-10
> **Verbeck said:**
> /etc/gdm/Init/Default
```
sudo gedit /etc/gdm/Init/Default
```

i assumed you read the community documentation

In my case the assumption might not be valid. If it is certain to be valid for the 'usual' Ubuntu user, then I'm on the wrong operating system. 

I did a quick search on 'community documentation'; this forum management system returned 250 hits (which I assume is its limit, that being a nice round number). Now I freely confess to a). Not having read all these 250 documents and b) certainly not searched them all for the line you mentioned - especially as it now seems unlikely that that specific line would be quoted.The relevant file might be, but not that line in the file. So I could have read until the end of my days and almost certainly not found it (my limitation). What I did do (as previously stated) is try all the supposed 'fixes' to this problem.

So, thanks for the pointer to the correct file. Alas, being severely limited as a developer of Linux (or any other) software, the expression 'on the line next to' is open to being mis-construed - especially given that I have no idea what the logic of 'the line' or of 'the addition' is designed to achieve.

It seemed to me there were multiple options:

1. Put the addition on an existing line next to (but above) the referenced line
2. Ditto, but below
3 .Put the addition on a new line next to (but above) the referenced line
4. Ditto, but below
5. Put the addition on the referenced  line - next to, but preceding, the quoted text.
6. Ditto, but following the quoted text.


Of all these option  No.6 seems the most likely (but what do I know?).

It doesn't work.

---

### Post by XEtedBear on 2010-11-18
I found the solution: powering on the computer operates a solenoid which compresses a spring and automatically drops a spring loaded weight onto the 'NumLock' key. The spring tension is set to recover the weight so that the rest of the keypad can be used. Shut down of the machine releases the solenoid and spring, causing the whole mechanism to be reset for the next power on cycle. 

This design is distributed under the GNU (Great Numlock Usability) licence.

---

### Post by Tesno on 2011-02-26
I don't know if this problem still exists, but I had similar problem on my mothers computer and Dinovo for Notebooks -keyboard. There was a setting that turned numpad to mouse and after numlockx and setting off the mouse-thingy I got this working.

---

### Post by donkyhotay on 2011-02-26
As mentioned by others I just installed numlockx from the repo's. I have it set to launch automatically from startup programs. Sure it doesn't take effect until after I login but that doesn't bother me a whole lot.

---

### Post by frogging on 2011-07-23
> **XEtedBear said:**
> I found the solution: powering on the computer operates a solenoid which compresses a spring and automatically drops a spring loaded weight onto the 'NumLock' key. The spring tension is set to recover the weight so that the rest of the keypad can be used. Shut down of the machine releases the solenoid and spring, causing the whole mechanism to be reset for the next power on cycle. 

This design is distributed under the GNU (Great Numlock Usability) licence.

I like it how long did it take for you to come up with that one?

I'm a part time comedian can I use that in a routine, some night?

Going to do a "User friendly/ not so user friendly software" gig

This would fit right in. :P

---

### Post by frogging on 2011-07-23
> **donkyhotay said:**
> As mentioned by others I just installed numlockx from the repo's. I have it set to launch automatically from startup programs. Sure it doesn't take effect until after I login but that doesn't bother me a whole lot.

LOL I don't know if it's the purple micro dot I took when I was 13-17, effecting my brain now at 55, or if it's just old age.  I changed my password to not use numbers cause I could not remember to turn on numlock.  I once logged in like 4 times I knew I was typing the right password.  But Ubuntu 10.10 was saying it was wrong.  I hit numlock (I mean I hit it) that time it worked.  That was when I changed it to one without numbers.  But now I go to type my zip code, or street number and the courser moves up down and all around.  I think it is old age :guitar: not the acid :lolflag: :confused:

I will give numlockx a try.

---

