---
title: "14.04 mail -c -b missing, but in docs"
date: 2016-10-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ericson-paul on 2016-10-08
I think there is a doc error?
What version of mail added "-c" and "-b"?

Below is the man page and the output of "mail --usage".

[http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man1/bsd-mailx.1.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/trusty/man1/bsd-mailx.1.html)

"[COLOR=#333333][FONT=inherit] The options are as follows:[/FONT][/COLOR]
     **-a**      Specify additional header fields on the command line such as "X-
             Loop: foo@bar" etc.  You have to use quotes if the string
             contains spaces.  This argument may be specified more than once,
             the headers will then be concatenated.

     **-b** _bcc-addr_
             Send blind carbon copies to _bcc-addr_.

     **-c** _cc-addr_
             Send carbon copies to list of users.  _cc-addr_ should be a comma
             separated list of names."
-------------------------$ lsb_release -a
No LSB modules are available.
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:       Ubuntu 14.04.5 LTS
Release:           14.04
Codename:          trusty
------------------------------
$ mail --usage
Usage: mail [-eFHinNpqt?V] [-a HEADER: VALUE] [-A FILE] [-E COMMAND]
            [-r ADDRESS] [-s SUBJ] [-u USER] [--append=HEADER: VALUE]
            [--attach=FILE] [--content-type=TYPE] [--exist] [--encoding=NAME]
            [--exec=COMMAND] [--byname] [--headers] [--ignore] [--norc]
            [--nosum] [--print] [--read] [--quit] [--return-address=ADDRESS]
            [--subject=SUBJ] [--to] [--user=USER] [--config-file=FILE]
            [--rcfile=FILE] [--config-help] [--config-lint] [--rcfile-lint]
            [--config-verbose] [--rcfile-verbose] [--no-site-config]
            [--no-site-rcfile] [--no-user-config] [--no-user-rcfile]
            [--set=PARAM=VALUE] [--show-config-options] [--debug-level=LEVEL]
            [--debug-line-info] [--help] [--usage] [--version] [address...]
  or:  mail [OPTION...] -f [OPTION...] [file]
  or:  mail [OPTION...] --file [OPTION...] [file]
  or:  mail [OPTION...] --file=file [OPTION...]

---

### Post by ericson-paul on 2016-10-08
Found the solution:

[FONT=courier new]    sudo apt-get install bsd-mailx
[/FONT]
Apparently mailutils doesn't have -c and -b, but bsd-mailx does.
This does necessitate changing script code to switch from 'mail' to 'mailx'

Paul: "Thanks!"

Paul: "You're welcome"

---

