---
title: "9.10 ONLY boots if USB port is used."
date: 2009-12-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FunkeyMonk on 2009-12-07
I'm running a Toshiba Satellite M115.
I've already tried a complete fresh install of 9.10, and updated to the latest kernel, to no avail.

Basically, the laptop will only boot 9.10 if I have something plugged into my USB port.  (Mouse, keyboard, etc.)   Just a mouse works best, but sometimes I can stick a flash drive in there and get it to boot.

If I have something plugged into the USB port, it'll boot up, but VERY slowly -- takes about 4 minutes on average.  (It's a 1.5 gHz machine.)

If I do NOT have anything plugged into my USB ports, the boot hangs, giving the message:
```
[2.108592] ata4.00: configured for UDMA/33
```

If  I let it sit for a while, and hit enter, I also get:
```
[3.367090] Clocksource tsc unstable (delta = 46870530155 ns)
```

That's it.  What's the deal here?

---

### Post by FunkeyMonk on 2009-12-11
A little update, for anybody who cares about this problem.  If I just have a keyboard and mouse plugged in, it boots SLOWLY.  If I put my Lexar flash drive in the USB port, it boots FAST.  Again, if nothing's plugged into the USB port, it doesn't boot at all.

I've attached my two different bootcharts, in case anybody wants to examine them.

[The FAST boot with my flash drive plugged in (just over 1 minute):]("http://charleslatshaw.com/testing/imagehost/BSO-Laptop-karmic-20091211-3.png")

[The SLOW boot without the flash drive plugged in (over THREE minutes!)]("http://charleslatshaw.com/testing/imagehost/BSO-Laptop-karmic-20091211-1.png")

---

### Post by FunkeyMonk on 2009-12-21
I'll add that my USB keyboard and mouse only work if I've booted up with the flash drive also plugged in.  (Although the keyboard can be used to select an OS in GRUB whether the flash drive is plugged in or not.)

I've really started to think of the flash drive as merely a key required to open the laptop.

This is stupid.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-01-03
Did you install ubuntu from livecd (cd)? upgrade? Have you tried reinstalling?
Go into BIOS and see what your settings are for boot devices. Make sure hard drive is before usb etc.

What partitions do you have on computer? Just 1 ubuntu install? (EDIT: I'm guessing you have 9.04 + 9.10 install).

Possible grub is looking for something on usb devices. What's listed in grub? Just normal ubuntu 9.10 install stuff (I think 3 items?)? Maybe check to see where the items are pointing to (what partitions).

One possible solution is that if 9.04 works fine, you could install it, then upgrade to 9.10 and see if it works (assuming you formatted and installed 9.10 previously). So if all else fails, format your 9.10 partition, install 9.04, then upgrade. Could be something wrong with installation process of detecting devices or something that an upgrade might not have problem with (keep same settings).

---

### Post by Bartender on 2010-01-03
Funky -
Your problem is the weirdest one I've read in months.

Since you don't have any time invested into an install that needs to be saved, I'd just start over.

However you downloaded and burned the install CD, don't do it again.  Burn the CD more slowly, use someone else's computer, check the md5's, use good quality media - my best guess is that the install CD is corrupt.

I'd try installing 9.04.  I'd probably try installing Fedora or PCLinuxOS or some completely different distro and see what happens.  I think you'll hone in on the problem more quickly that way than bashing your head against the wall with the present situation.

---

### Post by FunkeyMonk on 2010-01-03
> **Bartender said:**
> 
Since you don't have any time invested into an install that needs to be saved, I'd just start over.
I've done that -- I've made a fresh install three times.   First I burned a new LiveCD and installed from there.  No better.   Second I burned an alternate install CD and installed.   No better.  Third, I created a LiveUSB disk and reinstalled.   Again, no improvement.   I'll add that just booting the LiveCD or LiveUSB requires the same shenanigans to get the thing to start up.   (I have to plug in my USB keyboard and mouse to get things to work.)

> However you downloaded and burned the install CD, don't do it again.  Burn the CD more slowly, use someone else's computer, check the md5's, use good quality media - my best guess is that the install CD is corrupt.

I think I've ruled out the corrupt install disks by using three different methods -- and I've run the "Check disk for errors" on each installer before installing.  (And I re-downloaded and used different images to create the LiveCD and LiveUSB.)

> I'd try installing 9.04.  I'd probably try installing Fedora or PCLinuxOS or some completely different distro and see what happens.  I think you'll hone in on the problem more quickly that way than bashing your head against the wall with the present situation.

I keep 9.04 on a separate partition, and it runs absolutely without problems. I've been running 9.04 on this machine since its release.  

There is clearly some difference in the way 9.10 addresses USB and 9.04 that just doesn't seem to get along with my Toshiba.

---

### Post by FunkeyMonk on 2010-01-03
> **andrewabc said:**
> Did you install ubuntu from livecd (cd)? upgrade? Have you tried reinstalling?
See my above post -- yes, I've reinstalled about once a week for the past month.

> Go into BIOS and see what your settings are for boot devices. Make sure hard drive is before usb etc.
The problems I'm having are all occurring after GRUB starts the OS.  So yes, USB is before HD in my BIOS, but it's operating just fine to get to GRUB.

> What partitions do you have on computer? Just 1 ubuntu install? (EDIT: I'm guessing you have 9.04 + 9.10 install).
You're absolutely right - my partitions look like this:
1. 9.10
2. 9.04
3. /Home
4. Swap

> Possible grub is looking for something on usb devices. What's listed in grub? Just normal ubuntu 9.10 install stuff (I think 3 items?)? Maybe check to see where the items are pointing to (what partitions).
Grub lists my 9.10 kernels and my 9.04 kernels (on the second partition) without any problems.  It can select and boot from any of those without trouble.  The only edit I made to GRUB 2 was to remove the "quiet splash" from its default values so I can see what's going on. 

> One possible solution is that if 9.04 works fine, you could install it, then upgrade to 9.10 and see if it works (assuming you formatted and installed 9.10 previously). So if all else fails, format your 9.10 partition, install 9.04, then upgrade. Could be something wrong with installation process of detecting devices or something that an upgrade might not have problem with (keep same settings).
I initially did that -- upgraded my old 9.04 to 9.10.   These problems were so bad that I wiped that installation and made two clean ones of 9.04 and 9.10.   The only difference I've noticed is that if I upgrade from 9.04 to 9.10, it keeps GRUB 1, and if I make a clean install of 9.10, it makes a clean GRUB 2 installation.  But the USB problems remain either way.  As far as I can tell, GRUB is working great -- it's just that 9.10 is having issues.

Again, I have this problem whether I'm booting 9.10 from my HD installation or from a LiveCD or LiveUSB.

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-03
with grub2 installed jaunty boots normally (e.g. not slow)?
what's this machine's chipset?

---

### Post by FunkeyMonk on 2010-01-03
> **Leppie said:**
> with grub2 installed jaunty boots normally (e.g. not slow)?
That's correct.  I've attached a bootchart if you're curious.  9.04 boot takes about 20 seconds.
[Toshiba 9.04 Bootchart]("http://charleslatshaw.com/testing/imagehost/bso-laptop-jaunty-20100103-1.png")

> what's this machine's chipset?
It's an Intel Celeron M 420 / 1.6 GHz.  
The GPU is ATI Radeon Xpress 200M
I've upgraded RAM to 1.5 gig.

---

### Post by andrewabc on 2010-01-03
Try installing 9.04 and upgrading to 9.10. Might work.

---

### Post by Leppie on 2010-01-03
> **FunkeyMonk said:**
> It's an Intel Celeron M 420 / 1.6 GHz.  
The GPU is ATI Radeon Xpress 200M
I've upgraded RAM to 1.5 gig.
this info doesn't really say anything about the chipset (southbridge+northbridge). anyways, there seems to be an issue with via82cxxx chipsets, try passing hpet=disable to the kernel.

---

