---
title: "RC 9.10 Usage discussion"
date: 2009-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by polax on 2009-10-25
Hi,

The first thing i noticed after doing an online update of my Jaunty to Koala, was that other than the new fancy splash - nothing was changed.

While most people might feel down about it, I was actually quite pleased. I took this to mean that this version is all about changes "under the hood" so to speak. 

Ubuntu, indeed Linux for the desktop has arrived (actually, I was pretty happy with Jaunty to ditch Windows Vista Business Edition on my Acer m464) and has arrived without a fuss. 

1) First impression, - boot-up was not noticeably faster, but then I never had much running on Jaunty to slow it down perceptibly anyways. 

2) There is no hitch, and the software Centre is "AMAZING" - I give Canonical two thumbs up for this.

3) I am able to VPN to my office network without much ado (something which i could not manage with Jaunty).

4) Ubuntu-one seems to be crashing much lesser now (*grin* - had many crashes with 9.04)

5) System seems to purring along well - Office 3.1 is pretty good.


Now for the bad news ....

1) The system seems to cry for CPU cycles whenever Firefox goes to a Flash enabled page - this could be a problem with Firefox - Shiretoko, but I think i did not face this issue with the older version of Firefox. This is something that Ubuntu developers must address - it will never to to have this tar what is otherwise a fine and polished release.

2) I use SMPLayer to play my videos, and the movie suddenly stops playing. I have to STOP the play, and start it again to continue this... It could be something to do with the way SMPlayer caches the media, I did not face this problem with Jaunty - this is another deal breaker. It is quite possible that tuning the cache-ing mechanism for SMPlayer could fix this.

3) The biggest glitch i have faced so far is the Audio. There is a noticeable edge to the Audio - again I am not sure if this is a driver issue. I configured the audio to use 5.1 output with Analog input

So will i do the update to Karmic Koala in a week's time? Most definitely.

************** UPDATED TO KARMIC KOALA ON FRIDAY :-) *****************

Having a pretty decent experience with the new release so far - a few issues.


1) Rhythmbox keeps Crashing a lot more - most of my online radio channels never seem to be able to open
2) Ubuntuone - says something wierd about  "Capability Mismatch" ... love Ubuntu, but have begun using Dropbox till UbuntuOne matures
3) Tried demo-ing the ease and advances that Linux has achieved in Gaming to a friend, and Alien Arena kept crashing with Jaunty
4) CPU usage keeps jumping up and down, especially when applications using Audio start working. (a bit of a show stopper really, because i was under the impression that Audio issues were being sorted out in this version.


LINUX HAS ARRIVED :) - and I for one am enjoying Ubuntu too much to switch to anything else.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-25
> **polax said:**
> 
2) I use SMPLayer to play my videos, and the movie suddenly stops playing. I have to STOP the play, and start it again to continue this... It could be something to do with the way SMPlayer caches the media, I did not face this problem with Jaunty - this is another deal breaker. It is quite possible that tuning the cache-ing mechanism for SMPlayer could fix this.
.

Make sure you set smplayer to use Pulse audio, instead of alsa. That cured it for me. Same problem (and solution) in VLC.

---

### Post by banana jama on 2009-10-25
yeah i'm loving 9.10 also. there has definetly been alot of chages under the hood as you said. before my mic didnt work under ubuntu also there was a bug that made the computer freeze everythime i turned it on the only way to solve it was holding the enter key. those are now fixed in ubuntu 9.10RC also hibernate and suspend now work too. 

the only bug i've encounter is a small one:
  when im playing music in rythmbox and a song changes the notification popup shows the previous albulm cover and the current song instead of show the current albulm pic and song. but i dont care about this

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2009-10-25
For the record, I'm loving Karmic and I think is better than Jaunty.

> **polax said:**
> 
1) First impression, - boot-up was not noticeably faster, but then I never had much running on Jaunty to slow it down perceptibly anyways. 

Some people like me are experiencing long delays with Grub2. My grub takes 23 seconds to load, but the rest of the login process is fast.

> **polax said:**
> 2) There is no hitch, and the software Centre is "AMAZING" - I give Canonical two thumbs up for this.

Seriously? If you want to do multiple installs or check information about multiple applications in a row, then the Software Center is a PITA. IMHO, the current state of Software Center is just a crippled version of Add/Remove manager, which is much better.

> **polax said:**
> 4) Ubuntu-one seems to be crashing much lesser now (*grin* - had many crashes with 9.04)

Well, I never had crashing problems with Ubuntu. Sometimes plasma and dolphin crashes for me now, but this is the first time I'm using KDE, so I can't compare it. Besides, plasma usually restarts pretty fast after a crash.

> **polax said:**
> 1) The system seems to cry for CPU cycles whenever Firefox goes to a Flash enabled page - this could be a problem with Firefox - Shiretoko, but I think i did not face this issue with the older version of Firefox. This is something that Ubuntu developers must address - it will never to to have this tar what is otherwise a fine and polished release.

Firefox 3.5 is much better than 3.0, but flash rendering has been a problem for me since I switched to Linux. Firefox 3.6a1 handles flash pretty well tho.

See the Flash Optimization section of the [**[COLOR="DarkRed"]Firefox optimization and troubleshooting thread[/COLOR]**](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567) for some performance tweaks.

> **polax said:**
> 2) I use SMPLayer to play my videos, and the movie suddenly stops playing. I have to STOP the play, and start it again to continue this... It could be something to do with the way SMPlayer caches the media, I did not face this problem with Jaunty - this is another deal breaker. It is quite possible that tuning the cache-ing mechanism for SMPlayer could fix this.

I have already reported a bug that is probably related to this one. In my case the video does not resume from pausing state unless I use the seek function. Sometimes it also stops without reason.

This only happens with mplayer based applications like smplayer, gnome-maplyer and gecko-mediaplayer. No solutions yet.

See bug at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mplayer/+bug/453855](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/mplayer/+bug/453855)

---

