---
title: "12.04: Custom Installer Slideshow"
date: 2014-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wjckc79 on 2014-02-06
I hope this is a generic enough place to post this. I need to create a custom installer slideshow for 12.04 - I found the directions linked to below, but a lot apparently changed between the 12.04 installer and the 12.10 installer. Of course I have the builder tools, but as an example, there is no "slides" folder.[URL="http://www.dylanmccall.com/blog/2012/09/05/installer-slideshow-customization/"]

http://www.dylanmccall.com/blog/2012/09/05/installer-slideshow-customization/[/URL]

Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks,

William

---

### Post by Kirboosy on 2014-02-06
When you ran the command in terminal what happened? ```
ubuntu-defaults-template ubuntuway-defaults
```

Did it create some of the folders as expected?

Hope that helps!
~Caboose

---

### Post by wjckc79 on 2014-02-06
It creates ubuntuway-defaults with the following contents:
debian       desktop  i18n   multimedia      unity
depends.txt  hooks    icons  recommends.txt  webbrowser

When I get as far as debuild, it makes it almost all the way but errors out with:

ERROR: ld.so: object 'libfakeroot-sysv.so' from LD_PRELOAD cannot be preloaded:
ignored.
E: Command line option 'g' [from -g] is not known.
dh_installdocs: install -g 0 -o 0 -d debian/ubuntuway-defaults/usr/share/doc/ubuntuway-defaults returned exit code 100
make: *** [binary] Error 2
dpkg-buildpackage: error: fakeroot debian/rules binary gave error exit status 2
debuild: fatal error at line 1350:
dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot -D -us -uc failed

I do have fakeroot installed

---

### Post by Kirboosy on 2014-02-11
Maybe this will help?

```
sudo apt-get install build-essential fakeroot dpkg-dev
```

Seems like you are missing critical packages needed for development work. 

~Caboose

---

