---
title: "9.04 Suddenly Won't Boot -previously worked fine."
date: 2009-08-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gnusboy on 2009-08-07
Kinda weird.

Boot problem: Jaunty runs through startup, gets to splash page, appears to load and then display goes black before logon.

Ubuntu Jaunty 9.04 installed about 3 weeks ago and it functioned fine until Thurs. Shut it down as usual, but when I booted later, it went through POST upto  splash page and then no display. No user or password space - just dead.

Reconnected other machine, read forum. Tried booting through recovery mode solutions  generic kernels 2.6.28-14, 13, 11- AND recoveries from Grub as listed.
None of the recovery options generic or recovery modes got me past initial splash screen.

Also tried repair modules - nada.

Everything worked fine until today. I made 1 change in the morning in keyboard assignment - turned off Caps Lock, with shift-caps enabled. (can't recall exact phrase)

Did nothing else that I can recall.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
System: ASUS M3A78-EM, integrated ATI Radeon HD3200 GPU, AMD 4-Core 9850, 4 GB 800 mhz ram, 640 HDD, Ubuntu 9.04,
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Any ideas?
Thanks

---

### Post by fennec_fox on 2009-08-07
I just upgraded to 9.04 today on a fresh install and am having this problem. 
EDIT: Where it would go to the login screen, I hit ctrl alt f2 and logged in that way. Sorry I typed it wrong the first time.

Right now I am at work so I can't look at it until today but, I left the terminal up. I am going to try to debug it later. I'll post anything I come up with.

If you want to check immediately, go into terminal like that and check out some of the messages in /var/log 

Sorry but, I am in the same boat :(

---

### Post by Gnusboy on 2009-08-07
Nope. That didn't work.
Been at this for a while.
Do I need to do complete reinstall?

---

### Post by fennec_fox on 2009-08-07
By logged in through ctrl alt f2, I meant I logged into terminal so I could look at errors. I haven't got the gui to work yet. 

It might take you less time to do a complete reinstall. I'm going to play around with mine a little bit. 

Throw a livecd of 9.04 in and boot it up. Then move all your files onto something like an external hd. I'd suggest going through your home directory from the livecd and just writing down what software you had installed. 

The livecd should still boot up fine so you can at least access all of your files.

---

