---
title: "8.10/KDE4 system tray icons looks weird"
date: 2008-10-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by falkenberg_cph on 2008-10-26
Hi
Just installed Kubuntu8.10/Kde4 on top of an Ubuntu desktop. Looks great but i have a problem with the system tray icons. They a corrupted, duplicating the icon of "devices recently plugged in". What could be the problem?

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2008-10-26
It is almost certainly a widget thing. Try running your mouse over the area in question and seeing if they disappear. If not right click on the duplicates and click remove widget

---

### Post by falkenberg_cph on 2008-10-26
Unfortunately that wasn't enough. The programs running are:
kmix, (k?)powermanager, klipper, networkmanager, knetworkmanager, pidgin, tomboy, kdewallet.

Obviously networkmanager and knetworkmanager shouldn't both be running, but thats another problem i'll look into later.

Anyway, tried closing pidgin and starting it again. No change, it just creates a duplicate of "recently plugged in".

I have a feeling this is related to gnome. Somehow...?

---

### Post by falkenberg_cph on 2008-10-27
Well. I finally found an answer to my problem in this bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/+bug/247393](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/+bug/247393)

Quoting the post that helped me:
> I found my problem regarding the systray being _completely_ unreadable. Some time ago, I had manually added "Option "MigrationHeuristics" "greedy"" in my xorg.conf to fix another problem. Removing this line has made the kde4 systray work as for everybody else, i.e. with icons rendered right, but background filled with garbage.

---

### Post by falkenberg_cph on 2008-10-27
Blah. I have an aspire one which isn't like the fastest computer around. That means i need the "Greedy" option, otherwise scrolling in a webbrowser fx. becomes really chunky.

So, if no one knows of a great little work around, i guess i have to choose between messed up icons or messed up graphics. Sigh

---

### Post by halfvulcan on 2008-11-09
From the first time I booted a fresh install of Kubuntu 8.10 I had this icon garbage problem, only in the system tray. All other icons are fine. I still suffer from it. I can only hope it gets fixed in future releases of KDE or Kubuntu. For reference, I'm using the AMD64 Kubuntu, 1GB of ram, a 4GB swap partition, and an Nvidia 6800.

Even though I'd like to see this bug go away, the solution I'd prefer would be a "classic desktop" option where the desktop is just a desktop without laggy folder views and things to further slow things down and muck things up.  The only reason I'm sticking with KDE for the moment is because of their nice apps, especially Dolphin.

---

### Post by taavi on 2008-11-19
System tray is buggy as hell. Network manager looks just like a white square. Kmix and other icons background gets glibberish sometimes etc... I really hope, this will be fixed in some near future.

---

### Post by enzobelmont on 2008-12-26
> **falkenberg_cph said:**
> Well. I finally found an answer to my problem in this bug report: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/+bug/247393](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase-workspace/+bug/247393)

Quoting the post that helped me:

i can confirm this :)  thanks!

---

