---
title: "10.10 + Kerberos + LDAP + GDM login"
date: 2010-11-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tyler_Nieman on 2010-11-21
I'm currently working for a university that has taken an interest in having a portion of their provided computers run Linux rather than Windows in an effort to improve security and usability as well as promote open source software / free and save money.

I've got nicely running computers with one exception: I cannot seem to get clients to sign in using Kerberos/LDAP network authentication. My suspicion is that it is because there is no file structure for the user logging in (a home folder). Does anyone have a step-by-step guide to setting up a client computer to a working Kerberos login system?

What I have got working: I can authenticate in the terminal using
```
kinit <username>
```

I've tried these
[LIST]
[*][SingleSignOn#Client]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SingleSignOn#Client")
[*][LDAPClientAuthentication]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LDAPClientAuthentication")
[/LIST]
but haven't had any luck getting this to work. Perhaps I'm just not at the technical level to understand those guides.

Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thanks.

---

### Post by derlinuxer on 2010-12-27
Hi,

yes I've a running client (Maverick) against AD !!
Our AD has UNIX-Extensions so the client can get unix attributes from it like "passwd"..... Depends on your use case you don't need it.

So there are many kid of functions it can be used or not and of course it will increase the complexity.

check if following packs are installed:
* libnss-ldap
* libpam-krb5
* krb5-user

modify /etc/krb5.conf:
```
...
default_realm = YOUR_REALM
....
YOUR_REALM = {
		kdc = hostname_of_AD
		admin_server = hostname_of_AD
	}
...
```

Now it should be possible get a ticket:

[FONT="Courier New"]kinit <username>[/FONT]

show ticket:

[FONT="Courier New"]klist[/FONT]

The next is the ldap.conf settings but depends on your environment.
* user, groups ... in AD ?
* only auth against AD ?

derlinuxer

---

### Post by Tyler_Nieman on 2011-01-03
Thanks for your reply, derlinuxer!

I have verified that these packages are installed and that I can successfully get and view a ticket with kinit and klist.

> The next is the ldap.conf settings but depends on your environment.
Which ldap.conf is this? There's one located at /etc/ldap.conf and /etc/ldap/ldap.conf

As for this:
> * user, groups ... in AD ?

Let's just create some hypothetical groups: let's say there's groups called students and faculty in AD and both have the same privileges. NOTE: I don't have access to the actual groups/users at this time, but I imagine they're something similar. I can get the actual groups if this information isn't sufficient.

> * only auth against AD ?
As in, do not auth against a local list? If so, yes, only auth against AD.

Thanks!

---

### Post by derlinuxer on 2011-01-05
Ok, go lets next step...

I can't help you with AD Setup. So I assume the you AD provide unix passwd, groups and shadows. The AD will provide this if the SFU (Services for Unix) are installed and configured.

edit /etc/ldap.conf (rest unchanged):

```
host <your KDC IP>

base <your base dn>  like dc=orga, dc=de

command uri parameter

# User must have read permissions
binddn <your AD user name> like cn=readUser,cn=users,dc=orga,dc=de
bindpw <your AD pw>

# Services for UNIX 3.5 mappings
nss_map_objectclass posixAccount User
nss_map_objectclass shadowAccount User
nss_map_objectclass posixGroup Group

nss_map_attribute uid uid
nss_map_attribute uidNumber uidNumber
nss_map_attribute gidNumber gidNumber
nss_map_attribute uniqueMember memberOf
#nss_map_attribute userPassword unixUserPassword
nss_map_attribute homeDirectory unixHomeDirectory
nss_map_attribute loginShell loginShell

pam_login_attribute uid
pam_filter objectclass=User
pam_password ad
```

edit /etc/nsswitch.conf

```
passwd:         compat ldap
group:          compat ldap
shadow:         compat ldap
```

testing:
Try to get users or groups from AD:
```
getent passwd
getent group
```

Hope I got all.....
If it's working login should be possible.

derlinuxer

---

