---
title: "11.10  Desktop Switcher - Gnome Classic Desktop"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2011-10-14
My mother-in-law is 82 and I have just convinced her to move to Ubuntu from her 'wonderful' mac.  She asked if I could get her apple wireless (bluetooth) mouse and keyboard working which I managed to do after 'days' of effort - the final solution was 11.10 (I used the beta version) which 'worked out of the box'.  Next week I plan to visit her (80 miles away) to upgrade her to the formal release (13th) but she does not like the side panel launcher - she liked her mac dock at the bottom of the screen.   I have installed yesterdays (13th) release in virtualbox (to test her setup) and managed to run it as Ubuntu classic desktop and install cairo dock.  This is virtually what she wants but I have one problem - I have hidden the bottom panel so all here is at the bottom of the screen is the dock, which auto hides, but I also the desktop switcher.  How can I get rid of this 'icon' from the desktop?  I have right clicked and played with the preference options and I can drag it around the desktop but so far I have not found a way to remove it completely.  My mother-in-law just emails and surfs the net so her machine is about as basic as you can get - no way will she need to switch windows so this is a wasted item sitting on the desktop.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-14
I am not sure from your description if you have stopped using unity, but if not install **gnome-session-fallback** package and you will then get the option to login to ubuntu-classic at the login screen, which is much like the old gnome2 classic desktop with two panels.

It is similar to the classic gnome that you know now, but there are some differences, the major one being that you need **Alt+Right Click**  to add, move or remove any applets, and also to change panel  properties.  Applets are also auto-positioned to right, left, or centre  of the panels, and I think you can only sort their order, not whether  they are at the right, left or centre of the panel;  I haven't had time  to investigate that fully yet.  You will get the old style workspace switcher in the fallback desktop, and not the icon style that you are trying to get rid of.

Worth investigating, I think.  I quite like it, and I think it my be a  refuge from unity, which i still do not like, though 11.10 is many times  better than 11.04.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2011-10-14
I believe I am using gnome.  I did not install gnome-fallback but sudo apt-get install gnome-panel.  This has given me a gnome type desktop - is this the same as gnome-fallback?  When I reboot (with automatic login) I go straight to my gnome type desktop.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2011-10-14
Hmmm .... something has started to happen(?).  Alt/Special key and right click - properties.  Now have option to delete panel.

---

