---
title: "10.10 UNR: How to switch to calendar in evolution"
date: 2010-10-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by NickNak on 2010-10-03
Using Maverick RC1 Netbook version.

I can see no easy way to launch the calendar from within evolution.  In previous versions there were buttons to switch between email, contacts & calendar, now there's only a button to launch contacts from within email.  The only solution I've found is to search for Evolution Contacts within Applications, and then I can see no way to pin it to the launcher.  Am I missing something here?

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-10-03
what? on mine there's a button that says calendar.

this is a fresh install about 2 hours ago.

---

### Post by NickNak on 2010-10-03
That's what evolution used to look like on Lucid Lynx Netbook Remix.  Now I've installed Maverick Netbook it looks like the attached.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-10-03
i am running 10.10.
looks like you just got it turned off, go view-> switcher appearance-> show buttons

---

### Post by NickNak on 2010-10-04
I do not have "Switcher Appearance" under the view menu (or "All Message Headers" or "Caret Mode").  This very strange.  I have searched the menus and the preferences and cannot find anything that addresses this issue.  Have I got a plugin missing?  Is there something different about running on a netbook with a 10" screen?

---

### Post by PiHalbe on 2010-10-05
I can't find the calendar, task list or notes, either (not missing the last two). Only the adress book is still accessible via the button in the toolbar.

Did they remove that from the netbook edition to streamline evo for small computers?

---

### Post by NickNak on 2010-10-05
If I start evolution from a terminal window it says:

Gtk-CRITICAL **: gtk_list_store_get_path: assertion `iter-stamp == GTK_LIST_STORE (tree_model)->stamp' failed
EI: MAIL PREFS

And then evo starts as expected with a full set of buttons and menus.

I think I'm going to file a bug report

---

### Post by PiHalbe on 2010-10-06
Could not exactly reproduce this. I get
```
(evolution:2022): Gtk-WARNING **: A floating object was finalized. This means that someone
called g_object_unref() on an object that had only a floating
reference; the initial floating reference is not owned by anyone
and must be removed with g_object_ref_sink().

```12 consecutive times.

Then, evo starts up with the buttons in place. I wonder what's different about the launcher …

Aha! It seems to be by design to make evolution lighter on the computer. There are several launchers in the menu:

Evolution
Evolution Contacts
Evolution Calendar

For example, evo calendar will launch ```
evolution --express -c calendar %U
```

Still, the Gtk errors should probably be reported.

---

### Post by NickNak on 2010-10-07
So it's not a bug but a conscious decision to start evolution in "express" mode on netbooks.  I have just discovered that if you launch evo from the little envelope next to the clock at the top of the screen then it starts in "normal" mode with all buttons etc. present.

---

### Post by PiHalbe on 2010-10-08
That is, at best, irritating.

---

### Post by graydo64 on 2010-10-13
It might just be tolerable if the Evolution Calendar could be pinned to the launcher bar but it can't.  And how irritating is it that the calendar applet at the top right no longer includes items from the evolution calendar?  And that it forces us to see the time in US format.

Is it that Maverick is not quite ready for release?

---

### Post by jmitrevs on 2010-11-09
The most useful features of the clock are gone:

1) No connection to evolution calendar
2) No 24h time
3) No weather

If anyone can show me an easy way to get back to the old, usable interface, I would switch right away. I am contemplating reinstalling 10.4.

---

