---
title: "11.04 64bit white noise"
date: 2011-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jonnybignote on 2011-07-27
Hello all

Just installed.  Sound is patchy at best.  ALC887 on GA-MA74GM-S2.

Running ALSA over iec958.  Playing video or music files of any kind can work once, but as soon as I change track, or pause/resume, there is loud 'white noise' at high volume.

This is present in vlc and xbmc as well as mythtv.

Playing any video files dvds or tv through mythtv that send 5.1 over iec958 work flawlessly.

Did not have this problem with the same hardware in 9.10 running alsa and pulseaudio.

Any help much appreciated...

---

### Post by jonnybignote on 2011-07-27
Have used the update script to force update to ALSA 1.0.24.  No change.  All mixer components are turned on and everything muted that is not needed.

Thanks

---

### Post by jonnybignote on 2011-07-28
I'll keep writing for those who may have any interest.  I'm looking into the possibility of nvidia graphics drivers causing this.  Maybe I'll try one of the earlier drivers.  I'll check to see which version my old install was using.

Right now, I don't have any other ideas

---

### Post by jonnybignote on 2011-07-29
So I really screwed up the system with new graphics drivers and couldn't fix it.  Reinstalled 11.04 then checked sound.  Problem exists still, so not appearing to be related to graphics.  I did notice today that content on youtube plays fine, as still does digital signals through mythtv.  It mostly seems to be an issue with individual files.

---

### Post by Markmental on 2011-07-29
try out 10.04 and see if that works it will be supported for longer.

---

### Post by jonnybignote on 2011-07-29
seems a bit drastic....

---

### Post by jonnybignote on 2011-08-02
downgrading is exactly what I had to do.  I couldn't trace the problem.  It is present in the release kernel and was not fixed by subsequent upgrades.  10.04 works fine and ALSA is working much better than 9.10 was.

A shame that this small issue was the only reason I haven't been able to go straight to 11.04 but maybe it will be resolved in time.

---

