---
title: "8.10 Desktop freezes for 5-10sec mainly while playing movies"
date: 2009-03-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by migajek on 2009-03-06
Hi,
 I'm having a problem - mainly during movie playback - about once a few minutes the whole desktop freezes... well, actually not the whole. Tthe audio is keeping playing, but for about 10 seconds I can't do anything - the system does not respond for clicking the mouse nor pressing the buttons. The screen freezes except one thing - I can still move the mouse cursor ... I tried disabling HAL (killing HAL processes) as someone adviced but it didn't helped...

any other advices?

thanks in advance, as this is quite annoying ...

btw I was running 7.10 previously and didn't experienced this problem ...

---

### Post by martrn on 2009-03-06
What freezes the who workstation or a particular package ?

Can you play movies with VLC media player ? Can you play movies with Mplayer Media player ?

Have you installed all the required restriceted-extras ?

```
$ sudo aptitude install build-essential
$ sudo apt-get install ubuntu-restricted-extras

##  Add the following multimedia repositories to your list
$ sudo wget http://www.medibuntu.org/sources.list.d/intrepid.list -O /etc/apt/sources.list.d/medibuntu.list
$ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install medibuntu-keyring && sudo apt-get update

## Install Multimedia Codecs
$ sudo apt-get install libdvdcss2

## For i386 
$ sudo apt-get install w32codecs
##For amd64
$ sudo apt-get install w64codecs

## To install Multimedia codecs for GStreamer
$ sudo apt-get install gstreamer0.10 FAAD gstreamer0.10-plugins-ffmpeg gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-bad-multiverse gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse gstreamer0.10-pitfdll liblame0

##To install VLC, Smplayer and Mplayer with all codecs and DVD support
$ sudo apt-get install vlc
$ sudo apt-get install smplayer
$ sudo apt-get install mplayer

## To install Flash Player Plugin
$ sudo apt-get install dtc.templates libflashsupport
$ sudo apt-get install mozilla-plugin-gnash
```

---

### Post by migajek on 2009-03-07
Yes, I have all the codecs required... I tried both Totem (gstreamer) and MPlayer (/SMPlayer) but it happens in both players. I didn't tried VLC as it seems to have much lower performance and plays my 1080p videos at low FPS (at least lower than 24 fps)

---

### Post by martrn on 2009-03-07
If you open a terminal :

# In Gnome (Ubuntu)
The terminal can be found at Applications menu -> Accessories -> Terminal.

# In Xfce (Xubuntu)
The terminal can be found at Applications menu -> System -> Terminal.

# In KDE (Kubuntu)
The terminal can be found at KMenu -> System -> Terminal Program (Konsole). 

and type > top what is running or causing a lot of processor or memory usage ?

You should get something like this : but goes on for a while....

  PID USER      PR  NI  VIRT  RES  SHR S %CPU %MEM    TIME+  COMMAND
17249 martrn    20   0  2304 1116  852 R  0.6  0.1   0:05.12 top
 7256 root      20   0 98.9m  51m 3088 S  0.2  5.3  55:30.26 Xorg
 9124 martrn    20   0 37348  15m  12m S  0.2  1.7   2:36.30 kdesktop

Is anything or what process is causing your cpu to run say over 50% (nothing should really).

How much memory do you have in your system / how much is used ?

---

### Post by migajek on 2009-03-07
> **martrn said:**
> 
# In Gnome (Ubuntu)
The terminal can be found at Applications menu -> Accessories -> Terminal.

# In Xfce (Xubuntu)
The terminal can be found at Applications menu -> System -> Terminal.

# In KDE (Kubuntu)
The terminal can be found at KMenu -> System -> Terminal Program (Konsole). 

I'm not THAT newbie ;) but thanks ;)

top CPU usage is
 Xorg [from 1% to 49%]
 firefox (but I'm turning it off while playing movie)
 there are no other processes using significant CPU time

top memory usage is:
 firefox (again, turning it off so doesnt matter)
 Xorg (60 up to 70 Mbytes)

I have 1.4 GB of RAM, of which about 40-45% is used 
the swap size is 4.7 GB of which 13 MB is used, lol ;) 

I don't really think it is a "normal" memory / cpu usage problem, I guess it's something wrong with the codecs :/

---

### Post by martrn on 2009-03-07
> **migajek said:**
> I don't really think it is a "normal" memory / cpu usage problem, I guess it's something wrong with the codecs 

It could be a multimedia codec software problem but at the same time do not rule out X11-Kernel-Display-Modules (eg Nvidia/ATI/etc) / or Compiz or Beryl issues (Fuzzy wizzy boxy problems) or simular.

It could be something you least think of.

---

