---
title: "10.04 Lockup"
date: 2012-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-16
Lately I've been having issues where the screen locks up. I can -usually- move my mouse, but the loading icon of it is static and doesnt animate, I cannot use my keyboard and mouse, and nothing on the screen is updated. interesting note: I had banshee running, and the songs were still playing fine.

Any help?

-edit-
about 90% of the time it freezes, it seems to happen when i'm browsing with chrome.

---

### Post by techvish81 on 2012-07-16
> **doyleman said:**
> Lately I've been having issues where the screen locks up. I can -usually- move my mouse, but the loading icon of it is static and doesnt animate, I cannot use my keyboard and mouse, and nothing on the screen is updated. interesting note: I had banshee running, and the songs were still playing fine.

Any help?

-edit-
about 90% of the time it freezes, it seems to happen when i'm browsing with chrome.

what are your system specs? you can try remove/reinstall chrome .

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-16
my specs:

Intel Core 2 Quad Q9550 @ 2.83ghz
RAM: 4 GB DDR2
Mobo: MSI 7529
Graphics Card: evga GTX 460

I have tried reinstalling chrome a couple days ago, and it still persists.

---

### Post by techvish81 on 2012-07-17
I have tried reinstalling chrome a couple days ago, and it still persists.[/QUOTE]

it could be an issue related to flash inside the chrome,  as chrome is not officially supported, you can try chromium which is in the repos.  you will get most of the features, 

or you can wait for somebody to help. i have never used chrome.

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-17
I will try chromium. But what do you mean chrome isn't officially supported?

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-17
bah. it just happened again, with chromium...

this is wearing on me... :-(

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-17
What is your GPU?
```
lspci | grep VGA
```
and post output of this
```
cat /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
```

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-17
```
 lspci | grep VGA
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation Device 0e22 (rev a1)

```

and

```
cat /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
cat: /etc/adobe/mms.cfg: No such file or directory

```

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-17
odds are flash is triyn to use hardware acceleration and doe to crappy development flash just locks up X org

this is how i got it to stop freezing

```
sudo su
echo "OverrideGPUValidation=false" > /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
echo "EnableLinuxHWVideoDecode=0" >> /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
```
don't do if you are using and or intel GPUs (the OP is using nvida)

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-17
honest question; and sorry if this sounds newb-ish; but will that work if I dont seem to have a mms.cfg?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-17
it will create one

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-17
well, I keep getting a No such file or directory error.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-17
that makes no sence
sudo su
makes yuo root
echo "text here" > /path/to/file
over writes/creates a file wit the text text here
the next command adds a line to a file

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-17
I'm confused by that too. here's a copy of the output though:

```
sudo su
[sudo] password for nathan: 
root@roll:/home/nathan# echo "OverrideGPUValidation=false" > /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
bash: /etc/adobe/mms.cfg: No such file or directory

```

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-18
run 
```
$ sudo su
# mkdir /etc/adobe
# echo "OverrideGPUValidation=false" > /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
# echo "EnableLinuxHWVideoDecode=0" >> /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
# exit
$ 
```

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-18
that worked; thank you. I'll see if this holds off the freezing.
So flash is the instigator on locking up 10.04? was this a common issue?

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-18
and it just froze, again. :(

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-18
everything freezing or just the browser?

the freezing i had that that fixed was like this
all i could do is move the mouse the cursor would not even change and the only way i found to get control was to login via ssh and reboot it, that or hold the power button and xorg was maxing my cpu out

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-18
the mouse is moveable, but the icon is frozen; in that it looks like it is loading, but the animated 'ticker'(?) doesn't rotate. no clicks do anything, and keyboard is 100% unresponsive. ctrl alt f1 doesnt respond.

I don't know what ssh is, or how to use it. I usually hit the reset button on my PC so far.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-19
sounds just like what was happening to me (just i had a different cursor)
ssh is a networking service that allows you to login from another computer into terminal (like ctrl+alt+f1)
right click flash and click settings and un-check the box

---

### Post by doyleman on 2012-07-19
So far so good. Thank you.
Is this a known issue with 10.04, or Nvidia, or?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-07-25
known issue with flash+nvidia i reported it when they (Adobe) still supported linux and they said we no longer support linux

---

