---
title: "12.04 New Install Retaining Encrypted Home"
date: 2012-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-05-05
Hi,

I think I've got this right, but just want to check my assumptions before I shoot myself in the foot :D

Current GParted screenie while booted to a 12.04 LiveCD:
[ATTACH]217368[/ATTACH]

sda1 - 3 are just Windows stuff ignore them.

sda5 and 6 are / and swap where I have been running 12.04 during alpha and beta testing. That install has become horribly messy thanks to me installing 8 or 9 different desktop environments and generally hacking stuff about during testing.

sda7 and 8 are intended to be for my new clean 12.04 install - / and /home respectively.

My home directory in the beta install was encrypted during the installation (usual ecryptfs thing).

I plan to do the clean install to sda7 and 8 with same username and password, then boot back to the LiveCD and copy my old beta /home/crypto over the newly created one to retain application setting etc. I think this should just work fine when I then boot into the new install and login...  is that assumption right?

I need to keep sda5 around for a little while as I need to port some machine specific /etc stuff across to the new install.

I was sure this plan would just work when I started, but for some odd reason I have got cold feet at the last moment thinking I've forgotten something :confused:

Care to put my mind at rest?

Thanks :)

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-05-05
Ugh - somehow managed to tag this as Lubuntu - just to be clear this is about Ubuntu

---

### Post by cryptotheslow on 2012-05-06
The quick answer is no that doesn't work. cp, tar and rsync all hit problems when trying to copy the encrypted directory.

I ended up using deja-dup to backup the home directory, installed the new instance of 12.04 with encrypted home and restored the deja-dup backup. All fine.

---

