---
title: "22.04: cannot get gnome shell extensions to work"
date: 2024-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Old Jimma on 2024-07-12
Hello Ubuntuers:

I installed the encrypted version of 22.04

I've not been able to get gnome extensions to work.

I saw the claims that gnome extensions do not work with the Firefox snap that comes with the installation. So, I installed firefox from deb and removed the snap.

Here is evidence that only the deb Firefox is installed
```

for i in $(pgrep firefox); do cat /proc/$i/cmdline ; echo ; done

```

Output: 
> 
output
/usr/lib/firefox/firefox


Then, I updated and upgrded 22.04:
```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade

```

... and found my gnome version:
[HTML]
gnome-shell --version
[/HTML]

Output: 
> 
GNOME Shell 42.9


Then, I installed gnome shell extensions:
```
sudo apt remove gnome-shell-extensions
```

.. and installed the gnome shell extension manager:
[HTML]sudo apt install gnome-shell-extension-manager[/HTML]

And, then I rebooted.

When I go to the gnome extensions web site [HTML]https://extensions.gnome.org/[/HTML]

There is an error in  a pink dialog box that says, "An unexpected error occurred."

And, I'm not able to install any gnome extensions... either form the web site, nor from the green Extensions app that can be found under "the 3x3 grid of boxes in the lower left corner that is the "Show Applicaions" app.

Can anybody provide a suggestion how I might get gnome extensions to work?

Do you think it may not be working because I'm trying to use it with an encrypted verions of 22.04? I have not had this problem with the unencrypted version.

Thank you,
Old

---

### Post by currentshaft on 2024-07-12
Full volume encryption has nothing to do with this.

"To control GNOME Shell extensions using this site you must install GNOME Shell integration that consists of two parts: browser extension and native host messaging application."

Did you install the browser extension as required?

---

### Post by Old Jimma on 2024-07-12
Yes: I installed the Firefox extension "Gnome Shell Integration" that usese a black footprint as an icon.

Whe I click on that icon, it takes me to the website:

> [https://extensions.gnome.org/](https://extensions.gnome.org/)

that continues to hve the error message, ""An unexpected error occurred."

Thank you for your question.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2024-07-12
You can install extensions directly from gnome-shell-extension-manager.
When you open the application, do you see [COLOR="#0000FF"]Installed[/COLOR] and [COLOR="#0000FF"]Browse[/COLOR]?

Edit: Whoops, I've just noticed that you are using Ubuntu 22.04.
My comments apply to Ubuntu 24.04.

Edit: Correction - gnome-shell-extension-manager version 0.3.0 can install extensions directly using Ubuntu 22.04

---

### Post by Old Jimma on 2024-07-12
Hello Tea for One,

Thanks for your reply. I have an app that is labeled "Extentions" installed that has an icon that is square, and colored green in the lower left corner, and then differing shades of grey in the other corners. I access it thru the 3x3 array of squares that is in the lower left cornder of my computer screen... that seems to be named "Show Applications" when my mounse hovers over it.

When I click on that Extentions app, ta page pops up that ahs a magnifying glass in its upper right corner. When I type "date" in the grey quesiton box, there are no matches. WHen I type "weather" in that box, there is no matches.

However, when I click on the "black foot" Gnome shell extentions icon on the Firefox browser, the URL > [https://extensions.gnome.org/](https://extensions.gnome.org/) opens... that has a message that says, "An unexpected error occurred."  

However, if I type "date" into the box on that web site, I get many hits. When I enter my gnome verson (42) and extension version, a zip file is downloaded and nothing more. There is no "on/off switch" that I'm used to to really get the app installed.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2024-07-12
To use Firefox or Chromium to install shell extensions, you need the **Gnome Shell Integration** plugin AND the **chrome-gnome-shell** package from the Ubuntu Repository.

It's arguably easier to use the Gnome Shell Extensions Manager.

```
Package: chrome-gnome-shell
Version: 10.1-5
Priority: optional
Section: universe/gnome
Origin: Ubuntu
Description: GNOME Shell extensions integration for web browsers
 Provides integration with GNOME Shell extensions repository for
 Chromium (and derivatives) and Firefox
 .
 This package provides the connector that talks with the browser
 extension

```

Does not work with snap packages.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2024-07-12
> **Old Jimma said:**
> Thanks for your reply. I have an app that is labeled "Extentions" installed that has an icon that is square, and colored green 
This application is not gnome-shell-extension-manager
The default icon for gnome-shell-extension-manger is blue (jigsaw piece shape)

More info [https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/01/gnome-extension-manager-app-easy-install](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2022/01/gnome-extension-manager-app-easy-install)
More up-to-date info [https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2024/03/gnome-shell-extension-manager-app-updated](https://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2024/03/gnome-shell-extension-manager-app-updated)

You can use Extensions if you follow the good advice mentioned by Dennis N in post 6

---

### Post by donald187 on 2024-07-12
Actually, I believe that Gnome extensions do work with the snap Firefox package now.  I've used it to install the OpenWeather extension in the past on Ubuntu 22.04.  You still have to follow the instructions by Dennis N in post #6.   (I don't want to double check that it works now because I don't want any Gnome extensions on my machine now.)  This depends on Native Messaging Support in the snap package.  Not that I have any idea what this means but here's a Discourse thread where they were working on it.  Here's the post where oSoMoN announces the availability of Native Messaging Support in the Stable channel of Firefox.

[https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/call-for-testing-native-messaging-support-in-the-firefox-snap/29759/105](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/t/call-for-testing-native-messaging-support-in-the-firefox-snap/29759/105)

(One peculiarity was that the Gnome Shell Integration extension for Firefox didn't seem to check whether there were updates available for Gnome Extensions.  It was set to but after waking from sleep or maybe a reboot the timer was set to zero.)

---

### Post by Old Jimma on 2024-07-12
Hello DennisN:

Thank you for your reply, DennisN. I"m grateful for it.

Both the gnome shell integration and the chrome-gnome-shell package are installed. 

I think I'm going to give up and close the query I initiated.

Thanks for your comment.

Sincerely,
Old

---

### Post by Old Jimma on 2024-07-12
You are right!

I went to [https://itsfoss.com/extension-manager/](https://itsfoss.com/extension-manager/) and installed Extentions... then they worked very well!!

Thanks you!
OLD

---

### Post by Ramaddan on 2024-09-10
Hi,

I am pitching in here just in case someone gets this problem

I was using the snap version of Firefox in Ubuntu 24.04

I first installed the gnome-browser-connector package from the repos

For Ubuntu 24.04, the older chrome-gnome-shell package has been depreciated

I installed the suggested Gnome Shell Integration extension from the gnome website

A webextensions security warning poped-up and asked me to allow, which I tried to do

But even though  tried, it did not seem to work, then this is where the frustration follows

It still carried on and installed the extension, and I was also asked by a Firefox pop-up to allow the extension, which I did

The firefox permissions should not be confused with the previous pop-up that is linked to outside of firefox, which I took a while to understand

At this point, even though the extension was installed, and given full permission in Firefox, nothing on earth could get it to work

Making a new account fixed this, but I did not want to lose my old account, and just wanted to test with a new account to confirm whether it was a local user settings problem

After confirming this, I tried to remove different folders one at a time (after backing it up), trying to let it repopulate the folder

Of course, I started with all the usual suspects, like the **snap** folder, **.gnome** folder, **.config** folder, **.local** folder, and just got desperate and did everything, one at a time

Nothing worked........ which was just weird, and I would like someone to explain this to me.

Maybe needed reboot or re-login which I did not do?

I was pretty sure at this point that it was a settings problem, because of the above and due to the facts that other extensions that required such a permission were working.

In either case, I finally came across people talking about how the settings for this **webextensions** pop-up were all stored in **flatpak**

Why flatpak??? I thought it was a snap package...

In either case, I started looking more into these permissions that are set in **flatpak**, and this is where I finally started to see the light

You can type the following to see the permission set for each extension in snap firefox by **webextensions** in a terminal

> flatpak permissions webextensions

You will get something like this, depending on how many extensions you have installed that requires native messaging:

> Table                 Object                                              App            Permissions Data
webextensions   org.keepassxc.keepassxc_browser      snap.firefox   yes           0x00
webextensions   firefoxpwa                                        snap.firefox   yes           0x00
webextensions   snap.firefox                                                                          0x00
webextensions   org.gnome.chrome_gnome_shell        snap.firefox   no           0x00

Here was the culprit!

The permission for the gnome extension was set to **no**

It does not matter if everything in firefox was permitted, that only means you are telling firefox it can let the info go out of firefox

On the other side, there is a handler that needs to receive this info that will deal with the communication between the isolated snap package, and the gnome interface

These are the settings we just saw!

There are two ways to deal with this.

**First make sure you remove the extension for each command you try, and exit firefox.**

A simple and straightforward way would be with the following command you input into a terminal:

> flatpak permission-set webextensions org.gnome.chrome_gnome_shell snap.firefox yes

And you can run the previous command to check that the permission has changed to **yes**
[B]
No matter how many times you remove the extension from firefox, it will not remove the permission settings in flatpak, because it is outside firefox.[/B]

The second way to deal with this is to reset the permission altogether in flatpak, to make sure that the permission dialog is working:

> flatpak permission-remove webextensions org.gnome.chrome_gnome_shell snap.firefox


When you try to install the extension once again, the **webextensions** dialog should ask you to allow the extension

As a side note, I think the developers can add some type of GUI addition that can make it easy to reach these specific permission set by the **webextensions** dialog

And to have some note somewhere, telling people to look into this GUI interface, if their extensions are not working

I hope this helps someone and saves them from a lot of grief!

---

