---
title: "16.04 power-manager crash"
date: 2016-09-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by heyub on 2016-09-17
Hello,
 I recently updated to Xubuntu to version 16.04 from version 14.04 (LTS). Everything ran well for a couple weeks but now I get an internal error. 

Package: xfce4-power-manager 1.4.4-4ubuntu2
Problem type: crash
Title: xfce4-power-manager crashed with SIGSEGV in up_client_get_devices()

(I don't know if there is any other helpful information I can give from the error window but I cannot seem to copy it to clipboard or even select any text from it.)

Everything is fine when I first boot into ubuntu, once I login to my user is when the error happens. Upon login everything is fine but every now and then the top bar (which is black) flashes white and the desktop icons change to what appears to be some sort of "safe mode" then back to normal. After doing this for about a minute finally the internal error window pops up saying the power manager has crashed and the desktop changes to this "safe mode" appearance. After the crash everything continues to run (I am even writing this post) however some things do not work correctly e.g. my usb headphones are not seen as audio device, text editors do not have permission to save text files anywhere. 

Restarting, as the error window suggests, does not help. What should I do next?

P.S. I should say I dual boot with windows 7 and the last thing I did before this error happened was boot into windows 7 for a few hours then rebooted back into xubuntu. Nothing strange happened when I was in windows 7.

---

