---
title: "11.10 need help to get back to normal"
date: 2011-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ernestj on 2011-11-06
I tied this question in another post and got nowhere. 

I lost unity by messing with compiz and used several commands to get is back. 

1) unity --reset

2) gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compiz-1
unity --reset

neither solved the problem. I ended up booting in safe-mode and fixed the problem in compiz.

**The problem is that now when I boot up the computer, it hesitates after I put in my password. Then opens up in the wrong screen resolution. **

How can I get this back to normal???

Thanks, Ernie

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2011-11-06
> **ernestj said:**
> I tied this question in another post and got nowhere. 

I lost unity by messing with compiz and used several commands to get is back. 

1) unity --reset

2) gconftool-2 --recursive-unset /apps/compiz-1
unity --reset

neither solved the problem. I ended up booting in safe-mode and fixed the problem in compiz.

**The problem is that now when I boot up the computer, it hesitates after I put in my password. Then opens up in the wrong screen resolution. **

How can I get this back to normal???

Thanks, Ernie


When you "messed around with compiz" and used several other commands, you obviously have corrupted the graphics driver settings or script.

Without some other info its hard to diag. 

Short of the magic wand or a reinstall its tough. 

Lets start with opening a terminal and typing "lspci"

Report the print out

---

### Post by ernestj on 2011-11-06
Thank you. 


ernest@ernest-U56E:~$ lspci
00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family DRAM Controller (rev 09)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)
00:16.0 Communication controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family MEI Controller #1 (rev 04)
00:1a.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #2 (rev 05)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 05)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 1 (rev b5)
00:1c.1 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 2 (rev b5)
00:1c.3 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 4 (rev b5)
00:1c.5 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family PCI Express Root Port 6 (rev b5)
00:1d.0 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family USB Enhanced Host Controller #1 (rev 05)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation HM65 Express Chipset Family LPC Controller (rev 05)
00:1f.2 SATA controller: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family 6 port SATA AHCI Controller (rev 05)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation 6 Series/C200 Series Chipset Family SMBus Controller (rev 05)
02:00.0 Network controller: Intel Corporation Centrino Wireless-N + WiMAX 6150 (rev 67)
03:00.0 USB Controller: ASMedia Technology Inc. ASM1042 SuperSpeed USB Host Controller
04:00.0 Ethernet controller: Atheros Communications AR8151 v2.0 Gigabit Ethernet (rev c0)

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2011-11-06
So I got that we were dealing with an Asus U56E 

I was unable to find it here:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks)


Most of the known issues have fixes posted


Recommend 

sudo apt-get update && apt-get dist-upgrade 

that will bring the drivers up to date.

a little more detail 

sudo lshw

scroll through the print when you get to *-display:0 it will say what you actual VGA 
card is. Look for the vendor

Go to synaptic and search for the vendor,  use the latest driver.

You may have to utilize the backports found here:
 [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuBackports)

---

