---
title: ".mdf trouble !! :-("
date: 2006-01-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by amunimanghi on 2006-01-15
i downloaded star wars battlefront 2 from a torrent website. when i opened up the folder where i downloaded it /home/....../Star Wars Battlefront II, there was two files. one of the files format was a .mdf and the other was a .mds. the .mdf is 3.6 Gigs and the .mds is no less than 50kb. when i use gnome baker to create the iso image, the file doesnt show up. i asked my brother (he installed ubuntu on comp.) about the problem since i know almost nothing about ubuntu let alone linux. he told me to download the program called mdf2iso. when i follow the instructions to convert it, it says that the file is too big. i downloaded the patch  (code will be at bottom) but i dont know how to use it. can any one tell me how to fix this problem ive tried to search on google, but it wont come up. most people use alcohol 120%. i dont have that and my internet connection is 56k. 

please help me as soon as possible. 


code is too big. here is the link.   [http://developer.berlios.de/patch/download.php?id=665](http://developer.berlios.de/patch/download.php?id=665)

---

### Post by drogoh on 2006-01-15
In reference to the patch, you have to compile mdf2iso yourself and patch the source.  There are hordes of references on compiling and patching out there on the Internet.

In reference to downloading Battlefront II illegally, tsk tsk and shame on you.  Support your local software store, buy the game.

---

### Post by amunimanghi on 2006-01-15
yeah... as i said, im a n00b to this linux thing. i dont know how to compile. what do i do with the geek code below. is there a version of alcohol 120 on linux? aslo is there another program that can convert the .mdf file to an .iso?

---

### Post by kosmic on 2006-01-15
Sorry but I will not help you, because you are trying to make an ilegal move copying that game :(

---

### Post by briancurtin on 2006-01-15
[QUOTE=amunimanghi]what do i do with the geek code below.[/QUOTE]
that is his post signature, you dont do anything with it

---

### Post by amunimanghi on 2006-01-15
ok
i give up

---

### Post by ondope on 2006-04-21
[http://freshmeat.net/projects/mdf2iso/](http://freshmeat.net/projects/mdf2iso/)

1: download debian binary to Desktop
2: open terminal
3: type "cd Desktop"
4: type "sudo dpkg -i mdf2iso_0.3.0-2_i386.deb"
5: wait for it to install
6: go to the directory where the mdf file is using "cd "<directory>
7: type "mdf2iso <mdffile> newiso.iso". replace <mdffile> with the filename
8: burn the newiso.iso with gnomebaker or another program

---

### Post by amunimanghi on 2006-04-21
k thanks a lot. its been awhile. it works. but the game isnt compatible with cedega. :-( oh well

---

