---
title: "8.10 won't boot -  please help"
date: 2008-11-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by melenor on 2008-11-26
ubuntu will longer boot up
all right what happens is that after entering the boot normally it goes though all the boot stuff and after is done, the logon screen flashes then a popup comes up with "[][][]" written on it and it also has the "[]" on the button. after clicking it, it flashes to what looks like a terminal screen, and then flashes again showing the popup again. I didn't do anything different the last time i was logged on.
except that my compiz seemed to disable itself and i had to restart compiz.

I have booted into safe mode, and tried every fix possible and none did the trick.
Thanks for all the help.

---

### Post by Wayne_V on 2008-11-26
when you have the pop up on the screen, try hitting ctrl-alt-f1 to get a different console.

Then check /var/log/Xorg.0.log for errors.  

 If you don't see anything there, check dmesg, messages, syslog, daemon.log, kern.log, etc ....

---

### Post by kanikilu on 2008-11-26
Is there anything of note in your syslog, Xorg or other logs (/var/log)?

> **melenor said:**
> tried every fix possible

Such as?

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-11-26
how do i check /var/log/xorg.0.log from the terminal?
I tried all the fixes in the rocovery mode options list, Xfix, dpkg, all of them
I dont know how to check the files from command line?
Thanks

P.S. anyone know how to copy the hidden folders or make them visible to the terminal? -Thanks

---

### Post by kanikilu on 2008-11-26
```
cd /var/log
nano Xorg.0.log
```

Use the CTRL+key combinations listed at the bottom to navigate, or just use the arrow keys. Press CTRL+X to exit nano when you are done.

---

### Post by Wayne_V on 2008-11-26
sudo -s
cd /var/log
more Xorg.0.log
   - look for lines with (EE) or (WW)

dmesg
tail -30 messages
tail -30 syslog
tail -30 kern.log
etc ...

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-11-26
alright looking at Xorg.0.org i found a few errors
```

(WW) The directory "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic" does not exist
[INDENT]	Entry deleted from font path[/INDENT]
(EE) RADEON(0) : [dri] RADEONDRIGetVersion failed because of version mismatch
[dri] radeon.o kernel module version is 8.54.3 but version 1.17.0 or newer is n$
[dri] Disableing DRI
(!!) RADEON(0) : For information on using the multimedia capapilities
[INDENT]	of this adaptor, pleased she http://gatos.sf.net.[/INDENT]
(!!) RADEON(0) : MergedFB support has been removed and replaced with xrandr 1.2 $
(WW) RADEON(0) : Direct rendering disabled

```
I only copied the (WW), (EE), and the (!!) the other ones had too much stuff

EDIT: do i need to check any other logs? if so where are they? Thanks

---

### Post by Wayne_V on 2008-11-26
I have not used the radeon driver but that error doesn't look critical -- just looks like you would start X without DRI.

I would do an 'apt-get update'  and 'apt-get dist-upgrade' now just to make sure everything is up to date.

Also, post 'tail  -20 /var/log/Xorg.0.log' and we should be able to see if it looks like X is  starting OK.

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-11-26
I have already done the apt-get update and apt-get-dist-upgrade, 
tail -20 /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

(II) config/hal : Adding input device Logitech USB Receiver
(**) Logitech USB Receiver : always reports core events
(**) Logitech USB Receiver : Device: "/dev/input/event2"
(II) Logitech USB Receiver : Found x and y relative axes
(II) Logitech USB Receiver : Found 16 mouse buttons
(II) Logitech USB Receiver : Configuring as mouse
(II) XINPUT : Adding extended input device "Logitech USB Receiver" (type: MOUSE)
(**) Logitech USB Receiver : YAxisMapping: buttons 4 and 5
(**) Logitech USB Receiver : Emulate WheelButton: 4,  EnulateWhellInertia: 10, EmulateWheelTimeout:200
Output 68 disable success
Blank CRTC 0 success
Disable CRTC 0 success
Blank CRTC 1 success
Disable CRTC 1 success
(II) RADEON(0) : RADEONRestoreMemMapRegister() :
(II) RADEON(0) :      MC_FB_LOCATION         : 0xffffe000 0xefffd000
(II) RADEON(0) :      MC_AGP_LOACTION      : 0x00000000
(II) RADEON(0) : avivo_restore !
Enable CRTC 0 success
Unblank CRTC 0 success

```
that was alot to type.
anyone know how to copy though command line hidden files, so i can back up my peferences of my programs in case something happens-thanks.

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-11-26
bump

---

### Post by melenor on 2008-11-28
Alright it happened again but this time i think i might know what caused it, but i need to know how to delete a file from the terminal. Thanks.

The first time was a edit to the xorg.conf
this time i was trying to get my MX610 to work so i edited HAL and i need to delete a file i made which i think is the cause.

---

