---
title: "10.10? what the..."
date: 2010-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2010-10-20
Really caught me by surprise. I have used 9.04 so long I forgot about upgrades. I tried 9.10 and it was not a good thing for me so I stuck with 9.04 and have been happy. So now I have stumbled on 10.10 and I have to ask, is it a good thing or are there issues.
Ya I know I should do a search but I'm just looking for a few comments, pro and con.

---

### Post by Bradtek on 2010-10-20
No issues for me so far.
But I'm sure others do have issues like every other new release.
Download the Live CD and give it a try.

---

### Post by nacho32 on 2010-10-20
would like to see a poll on what people use, I think 9.10 32 bit is the most stable and will keep using it.

---

### Post by snowguy on 2010-10-20
I had several issues. found fixes work arounds but it was a pain. I like where I am now but in retrospect I could have just stuck with 10.04. 

For a list of the issues I encountered see: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1601356](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1601356)

---

### Post by ubuntu27 on 2010-10-20
You should try 10.10. If you haven't upgraded for a while, you will definetely feel the difference.

I am using Kubuntu 10.10 in my primary laptop and it is working great.

I upgraded Ubuntu 10.04 to 10.10 on my secondary laptop and it is working good so far. though there is a glitch on the bar/point (plymouth?) that moves when initiating or shuttingdown ubuntu.
I don't have that problem in Kubuntu.
It might be becuase I upgraded Ubuntu instead of doing a fresh install.

(K)Ubuntu is significaly faster and it provides a feature to encrypt your Home direcotry upon installation.

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2010-10-20
Wow! I have never gotten this many responses to a post this quick.
I found a lot of comments about peoples systems slowing to a crawl after installing 10.10. That was the problem I had with 9.10, but it was just the connecting to web sites that was sloooooowwwwwwwwwww. So I went back to 9.04.

Anyway, I'm downloading 10.10 now. I'm do for a system cleanup anyway so I might as well try it.

I wish I could find some people who have used it with Epson 4990 scanner. I'm getting one soon and I hate to have to install winbloze to operate it. There is some software available to run it on Linux but I have found nobody to comment on actually using it.

Thanks for your replies.

---

### Post by 31632531 on 2010-10-21
Hopefully I'm not late to the party here! It seems to me that if you've been (and are) happy with 9.04 you might be happier upgrading to 10.04.  I only suggest this because it's an LTS release and will probably have the stability that you would have become used to.

I haven't found very many things wrong with 10.10 but the upgrade has definitely broken a few things on my system that were working under 10.04.

Just my two cents.

Good luck with your upgrade!

---

### Post by Lvcoyote on 2010-10-21
Unfortunately I was one of the people who had their system slow to a crawl when installing 10.10, system specs in my sig below.  Reverted back to 10.04 and all is well in Ubuntu world again!  As mentioned above, the LTS releases seem to be more stable, or at least that's what I have found.

---

### Post by trikster_x on 2010-10-21
The only issue I have had is with the compiz ppa repository.  For some reason it completely fragged compiz while it was enabled.  I would have to say performance wise, it is good.  I think if I had it to do over again, though, I would have waited for 11.04 before leaving 10.04, only because I have noticed a few minor performance drops since the upgrade.  The only one that bothers me is the fact it takes three times longer to shut down now, which is a shame, because 10.04 shut down so quickly it could barely get usplash up.

---

### Post by Lvcoyote on 2010-10-21
Yes, I had that same shutdown issue you describe, and for me the startup was no better.  10.04 starts extremely fast and shuts down quickly as well.  Hopefully 11.04LTS will hit the mark!

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2010-10-21
It was recommended that I go with 10.04 instead of 10.10, if I didn't want to deal with bugs.

So I ran the 10.04 Live CD and my system ran really slow. Real slow opening folders and real slow accessing web sites. Kept "looking up" sites and probably took 45 seconds to connect to them.

Ran "top" command and if shows that "jockey-backend" is using 40-90 percent of my cpu. 
Is this what is causing the slowdown? What is "jockey-backend"? Any other suggestions or comments?

Thanks

---

### Post by trikster_x on 2010-10-21
Jockey is the GUI interface for selecting your non-free drivers (nvidia, fglrx, various wlan drivers), so you do need it.  But it is odd that it would be eating up any processor power, since it shouldn't even be running until you need to look at your drivers.  Maybe try:
```
sudo apt-get -f install
```
to try and fix any problems with the package.  Or you could go to synaptic and try to reinstall it completely.

---

### Post by 31632531 on 2010-10-21
What it sounds like to me is that your network card requires the installation of a proprietary driver.  If you are on a wireless connection try switching to a hardwired connection (you might have better luck)

If that is the case I would suggest downloading the driver packages that you need before upgrading your system.

Also, as for things running slowly, that could also be due to the fact that you're running the desktop off of the live CD.  Everything needs to decompress and live in your RAM, and if you don't have a lot of it this could explain the lag.

---

### Post by eze1969 on 2010-10-22
I'm by no means an Ubuntu expert, but I've been very happy with 10.10 so far. Mandriva was my first Linux experience and tbh I was a bit disappointed.
My only problem has been with figuring out how to remove pesky Grub2 entries from my boot options, but even that was resolved with a little searching on these forums :)
In my humble opinion, Maverick is what Windows could be if Microsoft spent half the money (and time) they spend on advertising to actually correct the ignorant issues their OS' and applications have. No....I'm not bitter towards M$....greedy *$&@#!% :lolflag:

Ubuntu, 10.10 specifically, is a err...10 hehe Especially compared to anything M$

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2010-10-22
I installed 10.04 next to 9.04. System seems to be as fast as hoped for but connection to websites is slow with lots of time "looking up..."
I installed Nvidia 173 driver and that is all I have done so far.

P.S. I just created a wired connection and the connecting to web sites is no better...sloooow.

What do you recommend that I try to fix this? I did not have this problem with 9.04, so it is not a bad connection problem.

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2010-10-23
I just took my 9.04 sources.lst file and converted it for lucid. I then had it reload everything and my connection problem did not change a bit. Hmmm.

---

### Post by sofasurfer on 2010-10-23
I found the answer to the connection speed problem. I posted it in this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1603653](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1603653)

Worked great for me.

---

### Post by ububooboo on 2010-10-23
I'm having issues with 10.10.  First time I have used Ubuntu and really not happy.  System has slowed down a lot on my pc.  Also, I have had so many problems just trying to get Ubuntu installed on this machine.  Right now have a (repeat) issue I had in first install whereby my Home directory stops working in the Places menu.  Get a message Error  File Not Found.  Have a thread posted.  If you have any answers, please to to ububooboo's thread.  I was hoping Ubuntu would work for me, but it isn't.  Maybe upgrading kernel directly from upgrade manager is causing my problems.

---

### Post by Lvcoyote on 2010-10-23
I'd be very interested what happens if you load 10.04 LTS because I had alot of the same sluggish issues and went back to 10.04 and it's snappy again!  You will probably find (like I have) that LTS releases are usually much more stable.

---

### Post by pgoffa01 on 2010-10-23
I switched from Mint (Isodora) to Meerkat about a week ago and I only had three issues so far.  


[LIST]
[*]I could not get Grub to load.  Kept receiving the "Device not found GRUB RESCUE> prompt.  Dumped grub, reinstalled...20 minutes in CLI
[*]Could not get facebook to work with the built in Broadcast account setup.
[*]Had a problem after going to sleep, could not bring OS back up....did a ```
sudo apt-get update
``` and the problem fixed itself.
[/LIST]
All things considered, it feels pretty solid.

---

