---
title: ".deb packages missing"
date: 2009-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by deewanagan on 2009-06-01
hi geeks,

i don't know but for some strange reason all .deb packages are missing?! i mean they are not under /var/cache/apt/archives(thats where it should be, right?). can anyone help me, or give a reason for it?
and also my firefox, is acting strangely, all bookmarks and everything is gone, and its also not keeping history(its buttons are also not working,reload,stop,next,previous,). Both happened in the same time, are these problems connected to each other? i don't remember installing anything.i m using Interpid,:D
tanx

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-06-01
Don't know about the .debs, but for firefox, you could try to rename ~/.mozilla into something like ~/.mozilla_old (Close Firefox before you rename). Then open Firefox and it should work again.

---

### Post by deewanagan on 2009-06-01
tanx for reply, 
but  i want to have my old bookmarks(it was tons of them), back, i don't have any backup of it!

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-06-01
search for the bookmarks under ~/.mozilla.

---

### Post by UbuntuNerd on 2009-06-01
as far as I know you won't have any .deb packages under /var/cache/apt/archives unless you set it that way.

go to synaptic package manager and look under settings > preferences > files and check the option that says "leave all downloaded packages in the cache"

---

### Post by UbuntuNerd on 2009-06-01
if you don't mind telling me why do you need those .deb packages for?

---

