---
title: "Multiboot Grub Help Needed"
date: 2008-08-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wrekd on 2008-08-17
I'm trying to educate myself in Linux/UNIX Kung-Fu on a multi-boot system but have lost access to Ubuntu due to the following error:

[I]Booting 'Ubuntu'

rootnoverify (hd0,2)
chainloader +1

Error 13: Invalid or supported executable format[/I]

The system is a triple-boot

OpenSolaris - 1st installed, 1st partition
  swap - 2nd partition
Ubuntu - 2nd install, 3rd partition
CentOS - 3rd install, 5th partition

CentOS carved out a 4th small partition, not sure what it's used for. CentOS is also in charge of grub (I guess. I'm still learning)

Here is my menu.lst as seen by CentOS:

[I]# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd0,4)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/hda5
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/hda
default=0
timeout=5
splashimage=(hd0,4)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title CentOS (2.6.18-92.el5)
	root (hd0,4)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.18-92.el5 ro root=LABEL=/ rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.18-92.el5.img
title Ubuntu
	rootnoverify (hd0,2)
	chainloader +1
title OpenSolaris
	rootnoverify (hd0,0)
	chainloader +1[/I]

CentOS and Solaris boot with no issue, and Ubuntu gives me the error. Can someone please point me in the right direction, because I am not quite sure where to look. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by wilbbe01 on 2008-08-17
I'm not a grub expert, but it looks to me like the ubuntu and OpenSolaris sections of this configuration are saying to hand the baton over to the ubuntu partition or open solaris partition in that case.  The rootnoverify I believe basically means to ask that partition to boot.  In order for anything to happen that partition is going to have to supply the correct boot paramaters or you are going to have to put them in this configuration.

---

### Post by wilbbe01 on 2008-08-17
You will need something like the following for ubuntu.  You have the partition information there already the way it looks.  Now you just need to find out what kernel you are using and get the rest of the information inserted.  I'm not sure what the best way of doing that is.  I've taken out a bunch past the UUID on the kernel line and replaced it with [a lot].

title          Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic
root           (hd1,0)
kernel         /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=[a lot] ro quiet splash
initrd         /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
quiet

If you look in the /boot/vmlinuz directory you will see the available kernels to boot.  My code above is for the one hardy shipped with, if you updated since install it is different.  I'm not sure what the "root=UUID=[a lot]" does but everything else should be similar in your situation.  I'll see if I can figure out how to figure out the UUID stuff.

---

### Post by wilbbe01 on 2008-08-17
And this forum here talks to you about the root=uuid=... and how to set it up.

And I forgot to paste it, here it is...
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/rootuuid-parameter-in-grub-642692/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/ubuntu-63/rootuuid-parameter-in-grub-642692/)

---

### Post by wrekd on 2008-08-17
Hmm, thanks wilbbe01. I guess I'll delve in to the grub documentation now.

Curious though, why are my partitions referenced with 2 different nomenclatures?

hda1 thru hda5 and (hd0,0) thru (hd0,4)

---

### Post by Yuki_Nagato on 2008-08-17
> **wilbbe01 said:**
> You will need something like the following for ubuntu.  You have the partition information there already the way it looks.  Now you just need to find out what kernel you are using and get the rest of the information inserted.  I'm not sure what the best way of doing that is.  I've taken out a bunch past the UUID on the kernel line and replaced it with [a lot].

title          Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic
root           (hd1,0)
kernel         /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=[a lot] ro quiet splash
initrd         /boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
quiet

If you look in the /boot/vmlinuz directory you will see the available kernels to boot.  My code above is for the one hardy shipped with, if you updated since install it is different.  I'm not sure what the "root=UUID=[a lot]" does but everything else should be similar in your situation.  I'll see if I can figure out how to figure out the UUID stuff.

(@OP) I do not think chainloading is possible with Ubuntu like that.

It works with Windows because Windows has its own bootloader it likes to use, and keeps it to itself.  But GRUB is on CentOS, not the same partition as Ubuntu.

The Quoted post may very well fix your problem (Some minor editing required.)


----------------------

As for your question, GRUB numbers and the actual system numbers are, unfortunately, numerated by a difference of one.  The GRUB ones are the lower numbers.  The developers just decided to do that (it makes sense to some degree, as the number "3" consumes one byte less of space than the number "4."  And because there can only be four primary partitions, it saves space.  But now there are extended partitions, and this is made obsolete.  In binary, it looks like this:  3 = 11 ... 4 = 100 ---> one less "one" or "zero.")  Watch for that.

---

### Post by wilbbe01 on 2008-08-17
The grub numbers make more sense from a programming aspect as well.  As programmers we like starting with 0s.  Two different groups of people working on different projects chose different ways of doing it :(.

---

### Post by wrekd on 2008-08-17
I got it with the help of the posters above and some googling. 

The UUID was definately an issue. The command e2label did not function under CentOS. A little googling for how to discover your UUID revealed this:

```
ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid
```

I added the lines of code that wilbbe01 suggested to menu.lst and inserted the newly discovered UUID.

When I tried to boot I got the folling error:

[I]Error 15: File not found
Press any key to continue...
info grub wrote:
15 : File not found[/I]

Again a quick google and I found this:

[EMAIL="http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/fedora-35/grub-error-15-431469/"]http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/fedora-35/grub-error-15-431469/ [/EMAIL]

which suggested I verify the exact name of my kernel by sticking in the liveCD and checking the boot directory

```
cd /boot
ls
```

This revealed I was using 2.6.24-19. I had -16 because I just pasted - like all good sheeple do!

I edited menu.lst one last time and got Ubuntu to boot! Sort of. It now starts to load, I even get the orange bar to bounce back and forth.

However, now I have a new problem to research as after 2-3 minutes of the orange bar bouncing, it drops me to a shell. It starts with BusyBox v1.1.3 and the prompt is prefixed by (intramfs)...but I'm having fun!

---

### Post by wrekd on 2008-08-17
I'm in! And you'll not believe why I got the BusyBox shell.

When I pasted the UUID into the [a lot] chunck of wilbbe01's config...I failed to remove the brackets [].

:lolflag:

Oh and BusyBox has multiple console lines so I had to find out about the ctrl+alt+F1 thru F8 thing.

This has been a good first experience on the Ubuntu Forum as this is a great community. Thank you all.

---

### Post by soxs on 2008-08-17
> **wrekd said:**
> I got it with the help of the posters above and some googling. 

The UUID was definately an issue. The command e2label did not function under CentOS. A little googling for how to discover your UUID revealed this:

```
ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid
```


```
sudo blkid
``` is the right tool to do it^^ (it's included in the standard ubuntu install), less to type, less typoes, more fun [/random side note]

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-08-17
> **Yuki_Nagato said:**
> (@OP) I do not think chainloading is possible with Ubuntu like that.

It works with Windows because Windows has its own bootloader it likes to use, and keeps it to itself.  But GRUB is on CentOS, not the same partition as Ubuntu.
Actually it is possible to "chainload" Ubuntu just like Windows, *if* you install Ubuntu's Grub to the boot sector of Ubuntu's own partition, rather then installing it to the MBR.

---

### Post by wilbbe01 on 2008-08-17
> Actually it is possible to "chainload" Ubuntu just like Windows, if you install Ubuntu's Grub to the boot sector of Ubuntu's own partition, rather then installing it to the MBR.

If you do it that way then you won't have to worry as much about changing it yourself when you update.

---

