---
title: "10.04 Login Screen and other things."
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Uruz on 2010-05-02
Is there any way to make 10.04's login screen look like 9.10? Also, my Wallpaper Tray has disappeared and I get an error when I start up that asks if I want to delete it. And (though, I doubt it's possible) I would like to change the way File Browser looks. The side pane goes to far up and down and so the bottom buffer pane is missing on one side and the directory tree (or whatever it is at the top) is scooted over.

Thanks for whatever help you can give,
Uruz

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-02
You want to change the login screen background?
Here is how:
It's best to chage your image to the resolution of your monitor - use gimp?
It may be easier to put the background image you wish in /usr/share/backgrounds first if not already there, doesn't really matter

-log out
-at the log in screen press CTRL+Alt+F1, 
-enter user name and password
-Code:
export DISPLAY=:0.0
-press enter
Code:
-sudo -u gdm gnome-control-center
-press enter, expect errors, 
-when terminal output stops press CTRL+Alt+F8

The Gnome Control Center should appear (it looks exactly the same as Appearance preferences from the Gnome Desktop, but , it relates to the login screen in this case.)
In Appearance 
-choose Add and pick a new background, (or browse to one if it's in a different folder)
-close Gnome Control Center,
-press CTRL+Alt+F1 
-at the terminal cursor type code:
sudo reboot

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-02
What's the wallpaper tray? Is it that app that chooses a different wallpaper at each login? Try reinstalling it.

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-02
The "file Browser" is called Nautilus - never tried to customise it myself so don't know about that - it looks fine to me!

---

### Post by Uruz on 2010-05-02
No, I know how to change the wallpaper. I want to change the window and get rid of the picture and stuff.

Wallpaper Tray is a wallpaper cycling program that worked great but now is gone from Synaptic.

And as far as Nautilus is concerned, I'm very detail-oriented and resistant to change.

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-03
Those instructions I gave changes the picture on the login screen. It does look similar to changing the desktop wallpaper but you will notice you log out and change to a tty.

Wallpaper tray was not included in lucid as whoever maintained it stopped doing so. You can use the Karmic version - vague instructions here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1447655](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1447655)

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-03
I don't think 10.04 login supports themes and changing the login window like it used to - they went for faster boot times. This may change in future but as yet no one has written anything to do that. If you want to get rid of the picture on the login - using my method will change it to another picture. If you want something plain create a white or black (or any colour) picture that matches your screen resolution in gimp?

---

### Post by Uruz on 2010-05-03
> **BrokeMahPC said:**
> Those instructions I gave changes the picture on the login screen. It does look similar to changing the desktop wallpaper but you will notice you log out and change to a tty.

Wallpaper tray was not included in lucid as whoever maintained it stopped doing so. You can use the Karmic version - vague instructions here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1447655](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1447655)

I said wallpaper, but I meant login-wallpaper.

I'd rather have personalisation over boot-speed (which didn't improve for me at all)

---

### Post by BrokeMahPC on 2010-05-04
Only other thing I can suggest is Ubuntu Tweak 0.5.4.
It has a section to change login settings - but only the wallpaper and the logo.
[http://ubuntu-tweak.com/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/)

---

### Post by Uruz on 2010-05-04
> **BrokeMahPC said:**
> Only other thing I can suggest is Ubuntu Tweak 0.5.4.
It has a section to change login settings - but only the wallpaper and the logo.
[http://ubuntu-tweak.com/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/)

Thanks, I'll try that.

---

### Post by nroose on 2010-05-12
OK, so I changed my login screen background.  Here is how I did it:

I searched for all images and looked for the one that was on the login background.

It turned out to be something called warty-final-ubuntu.png in /usr/share/backgrounds/.

I changed the name of that file to warty-final-ubuntu_.png, and copied BusquedaNocturna.jpg to warty-final-ubuntu.png.

Now, at least, I do not have that image that looks like a blurry nighttime street scene or a blurry brown star field.

I really don't like any of the color choices they made.  Perhaps it is slightly better than 9, but not by much.  No matter, I changed it all around, and now I am happy.

---

### Post by Method X on 2010-05-12
Good day.
Why not to try GDM2Setup tool, written by one ubuntuforums member?

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:gdm2setup/gdm2setup
```

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install python-gdm2setup
```

---

### Post by lynx7os5 on 2010-09-11
> **Uruz said:**
> Is there any way to make 10.04's login screen look like 9.10? Also, my Wallpaper Tray has disappeared and I get an error when I start up that asks if I want to delete it. And (though, I doubt it's possible) I would like to change the way File Browser looks. The side pane goes to far up and down and so the bottom buffer pane is missing on one side and the directory tree (or whatever it is at the top) is scooted over.

Thanks for whatever help you can give,
Uruz

as i havent read every post after your questions and i know this might be a bit late... i have just started using Desktop-Drapes for the desktop backgrounds, it will cycle through a variety of backgrounds every 15 minutes or what ever you set it to. its really neat and i like it so far, it can be found in >> Applications >> Ubuntu Software Center. and as for the rest of your question, im sorry but i wouldnt know.. hope this helps,cheers!

---

### Post by TurtleKing on 2010-10-09
Thanks this is the best procedure to follow. Ubuntu tweak in my opinion is not very useful.

---

