---
title: ".snp files viewable using snapshot viewer under wine"
date: 2009-01-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Zanzibar on 2009-01-18
Hope this is useful. I have had trouble viewing .snp files which are a snapshot of Access database. There is a solution using wine to load the snapshot viewer available through Microsoft's download centre.

The following link at the WineHQ provided me with all the information I needed plus detailed steps.
[http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=1623&iTestingId=33245]("http://appdb.winehq.org/objectManager.php?sClass=version&iId=1623&iTestingId=33245")

A simple howto based on the info at WineHQ. I am using wine 1.01 and ubuntu 8.10.

1. Download the snapshot viewer to your desktop or somewhere easy to find.
[http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;Q175274]("http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;Q175274") it downloads a file snpvw.exe

2. install wine.
```
sudo apt-get install wine
```

3. make sure cabextract is installed by checking on synaptic or
```
sudo apt-get install cabextract
```

4. install a printer onto your system or else the snapview program won't display anything meaningful.

5. locate your snpvw.exe file and either open it with a right click and choose the open with "Wine Windows Loader" option or using terminal 
```
wine snpvw.exe
```
This will commence a windows installation which abruptly halts with an error message saying "a Setup initializaion file has been corrupted" and an "OK" button. DO NOT click the "OK". Instead open a new terminal window.

6. now find your .wine directory and locate the equivalent of your c:\windows\temp\IXP000.TMP\ directory. For me this is located using.
```
cd .wine/drive_c/windows/temp/IXP000.TMP/
```
using the dir command should reveal a file called snap901.cab

7. next
```
cabextract snap901.cab
```

8. then
```
wine acmsetup.exe /T *.stf
```
this will trigger a new setup window which will run until the end and then give the message that snapview has not installed. However this should be wrong. For me it was installed in program files directory in wine.

9. close both the original setup window by clicking "OK" and the newer window. According to the WineHQ website you should now be able to run snapview with
```
wine c:\\program files\\snapshot viewer\\snapview.exe
```
this doesn't work for me but the following does
```
wine snapview.exe
```

Don't forget to install a printer onto your system otherwise you will able to run snapview but not see anything intelligible.

In order to view the .snp files I first run snapview then locate the files using snapview's menu system. Make sure that your .snp file is located somewhere that snapview can read.

---

### Post by robbak on 2009-05-10
Nice to see people using my winehq howto! just a few additions.
1. I now recommend using "wine snpvw.exe /C /T:snap" as nathan.n suggested in a reply to the wine bug #9919, instead of running the install and finding the files manually. It's neater.
2. It is nice to create a small .sh script to start the snapshot viewer (this is crossover's method.) Here is my script that I use to open snapshot files from firefox:
```
#!/bin/bash
url=${1//\%20/ }
exec /usr/bin/wine "C:/Program Files/Snapshot Viewer/snapview.exe" "${url/file:\/\//Z:}"

```
The ${..} wierdness is to replace %20s with spaces and remove the 'file://' prefix. There are better ways to decode urls, but I have not yet had cause to investigate them.

Oh, and sorry about the malformed command. You will need quotes arround the path, like this:```
wine "c:\\program files\\snapshot viewer\\snapview.exe"
``` I have edited the winehq page.

---

### Post by ntom-taylor on 2009-09-01
:KS Thank you Author and follow up commenter for the howto, just saved me hours so thanks for your howto contribution ! :KS

---

### Post by barrieluv on 2009-09-18
Thank you so much for this!  :):):):)

The office are being a real pain with regards to emailing worksheets to everyone and they decided that .snp was the way forward.  I've tried explaining to them that those who use anything other than Windows are going to struggle with this.  Why they can't use .pdf is beyond me (I'm not an office expert by any means).  
If anyone has any ideas on what to suggest to them so that everyone can use the same format and open it in Google Docs (good for those of us on the road, using mobile devices) and OOo, please, your advice would be most welcome.

Thanks again!

---

### Post by Zanzibar on 2010-02-15
Hi sorry for the delay in response. Other than the obvious request for open document format which won't be supported so don't waste your time you could request PDF. There are numerous free or cheap PDF printing options such as Cute PDF or Nitro PDF for windows machines which allow the user to "print" a windows document to a PDF file. 
A cheaper solution for everyone would be to embrace a free office solution like open office but if your work is anything like mine the IT guys are very reluctant to do anything new or outside of windows.

---

### Post by russgalleywood on 2010-06-28
Thanks to both for a simple, straightforward how-to which worked perfectly!
:)
Russ

---

