---
title: "7.10 ATI Bricked Update"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Manolicious on 2009-01-11
I've managed to update to 7.10 from 7.04 while backing up my valuable files.  The reason why I did the update was so that I'd have a better chance at making an extended desktop setup with my dualhead ATI card, as advised on the ubuntu IRC.  I then noticed under Administration a "Screen Setup" or something which when I clicked on looked like it was a GUI interface for making an extended desktop setup.  I then fiddled with it and logged out (Ctrl-Alt-Backspace), hoping to see the extended desktop finally work.  Instead I was greeted by a purely blank screen, a screen SO blank, not even Ctrl+Alt+F1 will pull up a virtual terminal.  I am at the point where I'm thinking of just re-installing ubuntu at the cost of the programs I had installed.  Is there really no other hope for me BUT to reinstall?  Should I go directly to Hardy or should I stay at 7.04 which was working for me before?

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2009-01-11
> **Manolicious said:**
> I've managed to update to 7.10 from 7.04 while backing up my valuable files.  The reason why I did the update was so that I'd have a better chance at making an extended desktop setup with my dualhead ATI card, as advised on the ubuntu IRC.  I then noticed under Administration a "Screen Setup" or something which when I clicked on looked like it was a GUI interface for making an extended desktop setup.  I then fiddled with it and logged out (Ctrl-Alt-Backspace), hoping to see the extended desktop finally work.  Instead I was greeted by a purely blank screen, a screen SO blank, not even Ctrl+Alt+F1 will pull up a virtual terminal.  I am at the point where I'm thinking of just re-installing ubuntu at the cost of the programs I had installed.  Is there really no other hope for me BUT to reinstall?  Should I go directly to Hardy or should I stay at 7.04 which was working for me before?

Go to Ibex if any ;) and doesnt the ATI catalyst config app provide a GUI tool for designing your dual display?

---

