---
title: "11.04 Problem with reading burned discs"
date: 2012-01-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jsandhu on 2012-01-16
Hi,

I am having trouble with reading burned discs, I have a dvd writer and it works fine, reads every dvd I put in also burns well but here's the problem, after I have burned the disc and it says Burn successful and pops the dvd out, and I use Brasero, also tried Gnome Baker btw, when I put the disc back in to check the content nothing happens, so I go to "Computer" but I don't see any Dvd/Cd Icon there, normally its there but it goes away like I don't have and Dvd writer installed, also if I put in any other dvd or cd it reads it fine. what should I do?

Thanks

---

### Post by Bobhuber on 2012-01-16
> **jsandhu said:**
> Hi,

I am having trouble with reading burned discs, I have a dvd writer and it works fine, reads every dvd I put in also burns well but here's the problem, after I have burned the disc and it says Burn successful and pops the dvd out, and I use Brasero, also tried Gnome Baker btw, when I put the disc back in to check the content nothing happens, so I go to "Computer" but I don't see any Dvd/Cd Icon there, normally its there but it goes away like I don't have and Dvd writer installed, also if I put in any other dvd or cd it reads it fine. what should I do?

Thanks
Reboot the computer and just use Gnome Baker or even K3B (not Brasero) .Read + RW disks have been a problem in Ubuntu for quite a while.I used Gnome Baker for a long time but it is no longer supported in 11.10 so I switched to K3B. It's a KDE program but it works fine in almost all versions of Ubuntu.

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-01-16
It you have no luck. Try replacing the the underlying cdrkit burning software with cdrtools. cdrtools isn't included in most Linux distros as standard due to some licensing issues. See this ppa:

[https://launchpad.net/~brandonsnider/+archive/cdrtools](https://launchpad.net/~brandonsnider/+archive/cdrtools)


Background:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cdrtools](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cdrtools)

---

### Post by jsandhu on 2012-01-17
> **Bobhuber said:**
> Reboot the computer and just use Gnome Baker or even K3B (not Brasero) .Read + RW disks have been a problem in Ubuntu for quite a while.I used Gnome Baker for a long time but it is no longer supported in 11.10 so I switched to K3B. It's a KDE program but it works fine in almost all versions of Ubuntu.

I downloaded K3B, first thing I noticed that it's huge when compared to Brasero and Gnome Baker and when I burned my dvd the interface was quite similar to Nero which I used to use when I was on windows, so I was hoping it should work and it did, I popped the dvd back after K3b has ejected it out and it opened right up and I checked the contents, everything was written ok apart from some of the zip files which showed some errors upon trying to extract, but that's ok I guess I just have to burn the files without zipping them.


> **alphacrucis2 said:**
> It you have no luck. Try replacing the the underlying cdrkit burning software with cdrtools. cdrtools isn't included in most Linux distros as standard due to some licensing issues. See this ppa:

[https://launchpad.net/~brandonsnider/+archive/cdrtools](https://launchpad.net/~brandonsnider/+archive/cdrtools)


Background:

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cdrtools](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cdrtools)

I haven't yet installed the cdrtools since K3b seems to be working now, I will burn some more discs and if I run into same problem then I will try this, I will get back to you through pm when I try this.

thanks so much to both of you for helping me out.:)

---

### Post by alphacrucis2 on 2012-01-17
Well if you are a gardener like me, I find that the dud DVD's are at least useful for scaring birds away from the strawberry patch :P

BTW I also find k3b gives the best results for me.

---

### Post by jsandhu on 2012-01-17
> **alphacrucis2 said:**
> Well if you are a gardener like me, I find that the dud DVD's are at least useful for scaring birds away from the strawberry patch :P

BTW I also find k3b gives the best results for me.

:D I was wondering how to use those...don't have any gardens around though so birds aren't a problem but we do get troubled by monkeys every now and then, I'll see if I can scare them away with these:P

---

