---
title: "16.04 On Lenovo G50-45 Laptop No Sound In Headphones"
date: 2016-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sasafrass452 on 2016-07-17
I just got a Lenovo G50-45 laptop, & installed 16.04. I plugged in my headphones, but the sound still played through the speakers. I could only hear a low hum in my headphones. Am I missing a driver, or something else? Is there a setting to turn on? Please help!

---

### Post by giga+bytes on 2016-07-17
Is it an AMD or Intel processor? My Lenovo G50-45 is AMD-based, I use Ubuntu 14.04 and have no problem with headphones. I know 16.04 requires the open source AMD graphics driver until the problem with the proprietary (fglrx) driver is fixed, but I'm not sure if that could have any effect with the audio.

---

### Post by sasafrass452 on 2016-07-17
It's an AMD processor.

> **giga+bytes said:**
> Is it an AMD or Intel processor? My Lenovo G50-45 is AMD-based, I use Ubuntu 14.04 and have no problem with headphones. I know 16.04 requires the open source AMD graphics driver until the problem with the proprietary (fglrx) driver is fixed, but I'm not sure if that could have any effect with the audio.

---

### Post by giga+bytes on 2016-07-17
Then it may, or may not, be because of the open source graphics driver. It's just a possibility I figured I should mention. Hopefully someone with more knowledge of this situation will verify.

---

### Post by sasafrass452 on 2016-07-18
Ok, this is interesting.... My headphones work!!! I'm not sure if it's any of the updates I received this morning, but it's working.... for now at least. Stay tuned....

---

