---
title: "*.deb bug?"
date: 2017-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roosje on 2017-05-16
Running on 17.04 for a while now, now i have run (twice) into a weird problem. Get a .deb file, open it with the software manager (Ubuntu Software) to install, screen shows, info is there, and an Install button also.
But the button does nothing when pressed, no installation follows.
Can some of you try this and confirm/deny it is a problem?

For me it happens with any 'not repo' .deb file.

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-05-16
There was an issue when 16.04 was released whereby Ubuntu Software couldn't install local stored deb packages, but that seemed to be largely fixed although there are still some threads appearing such as yours. Apt gained the ability to install locally stored deb packages so I find it better to use apt in the command line, mainly for the feedback that you get when installing, if there is a problem you are likely to get a better clue as to what went wrong than you will via the Software application. Eg. stipulating path and filename..

```
sudo apt install ~/random.deb
```

If the command line is not suitable then using gdebi is a popular gui alternative. Not being a default application means it needs to be installed first though.

```
sudo apt install gdebi
```

Right click any deb package and select open with gdebi or set as default with right click on deb package > properties.

---

### Post by Roosje on 2017-05-16
Thanks, i will try this!
{Edit to add findings}

Ok, that works, it installed what i wanted. As i prefer to use apt-get this works out perfectly for me!

Still, the Ubuntu Software bug is not fixed, should i take action, or is it known enough?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2017-05-16
Here's the bug
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-software/+bug/1672424]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-software/+bug/1672424")
Read through it, see any of the comments offer you insight into anything you may need to try to see it the fix (which should exist) can be sussed out.

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-05-16
> **Roosje said:**
> Ok, that works, it installed what i wanted. As i prefer to use apt-get this works out perfectly for me!

Cool, glad it worked out for you.

> Still, the Ubuntu Software bug is not fixed, should i take action, or is it known enough?

As per the good advice from deadflowr.

---

### Post by Roosje on 2017-05-16
What i picked up in the thread is that the problem is still running around in some 17.04 systems, and the fix does not work when user and Ubuntu Software + the .deb are run from the same directory.
**@deathflowr **Thanks i subscribed to the bug to keep an eye on it :)

---

