---
title: ".deb version to install with Hardy?"
date: 2008-09-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by justanotherhandle on 2008-09-28
Forgive the idiot question, but I would like to install a .deb package, on my Hardy laptop and have the option of either the stable etch verion, or testing lenny verion. Which would be best?

Thanks!

---

### Post by sirlancelot on 2008-09-28
What software is this? Link?

.deb files are the easiest to install in Ubuntu as it will be managed through Synaptic. Meaning it will be just as easy to uninstall.

When you're downloading .debs, be sure to pick the right architecture for your computer. If only one .deb is available, don't worry about this.

---

### Post by loell on 2008-09-28
neither is best, but try double clicking those debs, if it doesn't generate unsatisfiable dependencies then i guess its fine..

although those software you'd like to install might have a hardy deb, getdeb or some ppa repo. do look for them before installing debian generic deb(s).

---

### Post by bigbrovar on 2008-09-28
am not sure but i think hardy is based on Debian Lenny so installing the Lenny version should work fine .... remember i said should !
however have u tried searching synaptic parkage manager for the .deb application **System/Administration/Synaptic **

---

### Post by justanotherhandle on 2008-09-28
Ah, many thanks for the replies. I'd like to install OSCAR clustering and use my Hardy laptop as the top node dog, and a yet to be installed debian version on an old celeron (formerly Dapper) desktop machine.
[http://svn.oscar.openclustergroup.org/trac/oscar/wiki/Repositories](http://svn.oscar.openclustergroup.org/trac/oscar/wiki/Repositories)

Experimenting. :)
[http://svn.oscar.openclustergroup.org/trac/oscar/wiki](http://svn.oscar.openclustergroup.org/trac/oscar/wiki)

So I should just try, say Lenny or Etch, and which ever one doesn't generate errors, assume good? The next plan would be to then install whichever .deb version that worked on Hardy on the old machine, i.e., if the Lenny .deb works, then install testing on the desktop and have fun.

Sound good?

Thanks!

---

### Post by loell on 2008-09-28
yeah, try their etch repository, might be the closest to dapper, and when you install it, if it ask you to remove anything then its a no go and if it just install a bunch of things then its fine.

---

