---
title: "12.04 resolution stuck in 640x480 after downgrade"
date: 2016-06-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mvrius on 2016-06-14
Recently downgraded my almost-decade-old Fujitsu Siemens v5535 Esprimo Mobile (yes, that's the one with the notorious SiS 771/671 graphics card) from 16.04 to 12.04, as 16.04 was terribly slow. In 16.04, my resolution was fixed and back to the regular 1280x800 after a quick sudo apt-get update and use of restricted drivers, but in 12.04 this doesn't seem to work. Other threads have told me to use xrandr to add a new mode and use that for the default output (for some reason lspci | grep VGA tells me it's VGA compatible, but xrandr doesn't find a VGA output), but that doesn't work either. With every xrandr command that I use, it tells me xrandr cannot find size for gamma output. I'm suspecting a problem with the graphics drivers, but I would love to be able to fix this as 16.04 is too slow and I have no other OS available.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-06-14
12.04 has only about 10 months of support left so I'd try a lighter flavor of 16.04 like Ubuntu MATE, Xubuntu, or Lubuntu. One reason 16.04 would run much slower than 12.04 is that 12.04 had an automatic fallback to Unity-2D but after that Unity-2D was discontinued. Lubuntu is the lightest of the herd.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-06-14
The hardware specification lists the resolution for the laptop screen as 1280 x 800 and the inclusion of a VGA output. The VGA output will only be active if an external monitor is connected to the VGA port. The xrandr command should show VGA disconnected when nothing is connected to the VGA port. What does the command xrandr show?

Regards.

---

### Post by Mvrius on 2016-06-14
> **grahammechanical said:**
> The hardware specification lists the resolution for the laptop screen as 1280 x 800 and the inclusion of a VGA output. The VGA output will only be active if an external monitor is connected to the VGA port. The xrandr command should show VGA disconnected when nothing is connected to the VGA port. What does the command xrandr show?

Regards.

Hello, thanks for the reply.

The output of xrandr is:
```
~$ xrandr
xrandr: Failed to get size of gamma for output default
Screen 0: minimum 640 x 480, current 640 x 480, maximum 1280 x 800
default connected primary 640x480+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   640x480        73.0* 
   1280x800_60.00   59.8  
```

I have tried the xrandr --newmode, --addmode and --output method for both VGA and default, but neither seemed to work. It did add the 1280x800 option to the displays menu, but due to the current resolution I can't seem to press the OK button to apply this setting. Also, it disappears upon reboot. xrandr only shows this because I added it, I think, I am unable to put it to use as --output returns an error.

---

### Post by Mvrius on 2016-06-15
Switched to Lubuntu 16.04 and the problem's solved, thanks!

---

