---
title: "9.10 Login Issue"
date: 2009-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by davebradford on 2009-12-10
I'm scared i might be making a very n00by mistake by here goes!
 
Since today i log i try to log into my computer and instead of getting my GNOME desktop i get a bash screen on top of the GDM loading screen, black writing, white background?
 
I want my desktop back :(
 
Anyone have an ideas? Typing exit just logs me out.. ahh!!
 
Thanks guys for looking this way..

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-12-10
try typing
```

startx

```

and see if the gui starts. if it does not, send us the error message.

---

### Post by davebradford on 2009-12-10
wow, thanks for a speedy reply :)
 
i've listed my findings in a screenshot, any ideas?

---

### Post by davebradford on 2009-12-10
can't seem to change the gui options from gnome to others, maybe i'm barking up the wrong tree!!

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-12-11
oh ok, you have at least X running and some of gnome. sorry, those instructions are for when neither will start at all. my bad, need to read more closely.

anyway, Ctrl+Alt+F1 over to a TTY and try this:
```

sudo service gdm stop
sudo service gdm start

```

to restart the GDM. then switch back to tty7. any login yet?

---

### Post by davebradford on 2009-12-11
hello! i get a login, but after i enter my password i get that screen! very bazzar!

---

### Post by davebradford on 2009-12-13
hey guys, still having this issue and it's really bugging me? any advice.. would really love not to clean and re-install :(

---

### Post by miniyak on 2009-12-13
try booting recovery mode see how that works out

(a recovery mode can be selected from the grub boot screen for each kernel you have installed)

---

### Post by davebradford on 2009-12-14
hello :) thanks for your help, have tried recovery mode and previous kernals.. with no luck i'm afraid.. here is something i did notice.. when trying to re-install gnome, i get this error 
 
"the following have unmet dependencies:
 
gnome: 
 
depends: gnome-desktopeviroment (=1:2.22.2~4ubuntu8) but it is not going to be installed
 
depends: gnome-vfs-obexftp but is not installable
 
E: Broken packages"

---

### Post by miniyak on 2009-12-14
you could try installing xfce or kde too if you feel adventurous 

I'm no expert but a clean install seems like the best solution in this case unfortunately. I recommend writing a new disc at a slow speed however vs. using the one that gave you your current install 

You should be able to back up your data by putting in a live cd mounting the drive then transfering the files over over to a usb stick or CD

---

