---
title: "7.04-8.04 upgrade/install lots of headaches"
date: 2008-08-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jharadie on 2008-08-09
Machine: Microtel AMD Sempron 2200+ 1.6G CPU, 1.5G RAM
IDE Primary master: WDD 80G Primary Slave generic DVD read-only
IDE Secondary master: WDD 120G slave DVD-RW
(both HDs had Win at one time, but used GParted lots and lots)

Machine has run great on 7.04, no complaints.  Also, 7.04 is the only partitioner that sees both drives (though it only sees one of the DVD drives, but found a workaround for that).

Tried clean install (thanks to GParted) of 8.04LTS, but during install partitioner would only see 120G HD, period.

Back to 7.04, OK, upgrade to 7.10, runs only in secondary kernel (using "main" kernel, it just sits there and stares at me).  Leaving in secondary kernel, upgrade to 8.04.  Again, will only run in secondary kernel (2.6.20-17-generic).  Trying "primary" kernel tells me:

[123.958510] ata1: SRST failed (errno=16)
Check root = bootarg cat /proc/cmdline
or missing modules, devices: cat /proc/modues ls /dev
ALERT! /dev/disc/by-uuid 13d344fe-a731-4d7e-b51a-736898b414ae does not exist.

Running at 2.6.20-17 won't let me install VMserver. QEMU and Virtualbox are not an option.

Tried Xubuntu, Ubuntu-alternate, both only recognize the 120G HD, cannot get them to see the 80G HD as well.

Is there any way to do a clean install of 8.04 with a partitioner that will see both discs?  If I need to change drive jumpers please point me in the right direction to find out/figure out.  Otherwise, how do I fix current problem so I can use main kernel instead of backup kernel?  Do I need to go back to 7.04, upgrade to 7.10 and fix at that point?

I don't have the money to buy a better machine.  KVM won't run on this one, and like I said QEMU and Virtualbox are not an option, based on needs and plans.  But I do have a lot of time, and am pretty good at understanding instructions. :)

FWIW info: also have Microtel AMD 2.8G CPU, 2G RAM, WDD 70G & WDD 320G HDs.  Easily upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10, and VMserver works.  Running test of 8.04LTS in VM with no problems (but just the one HD in VM).  Plan to upgrade this Microtel to 8.04LTS after I get the other one running properly.

Thanks.

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-08-09
Your system specs look fine and 1.5GB of ram should work well.
Since you said you've used gparted "lots and lots" it looks like you've reinstalled a lot too. 

You may want to back up your personal files and do a clean install.
If there is some specific hang up at the installer note that and post it here.

There should be no need to go back to a previous version-but getting the alternate install disk can be a good idea if you're having problems with the desktop/live cd.

---

### Post by jharadie on 2008-08-09
> **phidia said:**
> Your system specs look fine and 1.5GB of ram should work well.
Since you said you've used gparted "lots and lots" it looks like you've reinstalled a lot too. 

You may want to back up your personal files and do a clean install.
If there is some specific hang up at the installer note that and post it here.

There should be no need to go back to a previous version-but getting the alternate install disk can be a good idea if you're having problems with the desktop/live cd.

"lots and lots" hehehehe....I admit that while I've been playing with Linux since way back at RH 7.x, I was a "Microsoft of Borg" until I met Ubuntu 7.04. :) (I met GParted when I first tried Freespire.  Since then it's become my fave, especially when helping M$ Vista users.)

Ubuntu 8.04, Xubuntu 8.04, and Ubuntu alternate disc 8.04 will all install just fine on that machine, the specific hang-up is that none of their partitioners (after 7.04) will see both HDs, they only see the 120G HD.  That's what makes me wonder if the problem might be HD pins maybe?  Or something changed (maybe in the kernel?) after 7.04 that I need to take into account?

Thanks.

---

