---
title: "VirtualBox crashes session almost immediately"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by raydar on 2010-10-11
On a fresh install of the Meerkat release candidate, I've installed the latest VirtualBox (3.2.8-64453, not open source version).  When I run it, I get a user-agreement notice box as expected.  

But, (1) sometimes immediately thereafter, or if not, then (2) as soon as I move the mouse pointer or (3) after I use the PageDown key to get to the bottom of the agreement text and use a key combination for "I agree," my Ubuntu user session crashes and I have to log in again.

The only other weird symptom I'm having is that I cannot set visual effects to anything but "None" (if I attempt to, I get an alert "The Composite extension is not available").  

Perhaps there's a video-related problem underlying both issues, i.e., the X server is failing in both cases?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-10-11
Nice avatar, I read those books many years ago ...

Sounds as if you have a problem with your video card. What hardware do you have ?

---

### Post by raydar on 2010-10-11
Thans--I read that whole series as a kid and have never forgotten it.

I've got a dual monitors hooked to an Nvidia card, running Xinerama, in a setup that I've used for a long time without trouble under previous Ubuntu versions. Long enough in fact that I forget exactly which model of video card. :)

Here's my xorg.conf, if it might help:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 260.19.06  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Oct  4 16:01:38 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"

# Removed Option "Xinerama" "0"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "1"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonicPS790"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 95.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 180.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic PS790-2"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 97.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 180.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 GS"
    BusID          "PCI:6:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7300 GS"
    BusID          "PCI:6:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1600x1200_70 +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_65 +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_60 +0+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_70 +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_65 +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_60 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1600x1200_60 +0+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_70 +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_65 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1600x1200_65 +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_60 +0+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_70 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1600x1200_70 +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_65 +0+0; CRT-0: 1600x1200_60 +0+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1280x1024 +0+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1280x1024 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: 1600x1200 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-1: 1600x1200 +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-1: 1280x1024 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-1: 1600x1200 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-10-11
If that is an "old" configuration file, I would back it up and make a new one.

---

### Post by raydar on 2010-10-11
Ah--that's actually my current one. What (cringe) does that suggest?

---

### Post by mmeadow5 on 2010-10-14
I had the same problem - Nvidia driver, Ubuntu 10.10 clean install, and Virtualbox = crash. Disabling Xinerama corrected this for me. You can still have 2 independent screens, based on my limited testing, just not Xinerama enabled. Hopefully there will be an Nvidia update to address this.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-10-14
Try the nouveau driver:

[http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/](http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/)

Works for me =)

---

### Post by yojimbo-San on 2010-10-14
Sounds like you may be bitten by [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qt4-x11/+bug/650539](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qt4-x11/+bug/650539) ... have a look and subscribe/contribute to this report if appropriate.

---

### Post by raydar on 2010-10-28
I think you have to be right, yojimbo-San; I've been monitoring that Launchpad page since your reply, using TwinView in the meantime instead of attempting the patch (1) in order to get familiar with TwinView just for the heck of it and also (2) out of curiosity to see how quickly the problem would be resolved in the official Ubuntu packages.

As of a couple hours ago (it's about a quarter to 11 a.m. on the 27th of October), a lot has been happening on the Launchpad page:

Changed in xorg (Ubuntu):
status: 	Confirmed &#8594; Triaged

Changed in xorg (Ubuntu):
importance: 	Undecided &#8594; High

Changed in xorg (Ubuntu):
assignee: 	nobody &#8594; Chris Halse Rogers (raof)

Changed in xorg (Ubuntu Maverick):
status: 	New &#8594; Triaged

Changed in xorg (Ubuntu Maverick):
importance: 	Undecided &#8594; High

Changed in xorg (Ubuntu Maverick):
assignee: 	nobody &#8594; Chris Halse Rogers (raof)

Changed in nvidia-graphics-drivers (Ubuntu Maverick):
status: 	New &#8594; Invalid

Changed in qt4-x11 (Ubuntu Maverick):
status: 	New &#8594; Invalid

---

### Post by raydar on 2010-11-14
Rats . . . an X update finally came up in the update manager, and I installed it, but it didn't fix it.

---

### Post by raydar on 2010-12-10
A fix came up in Ubuntu-proposed according to Launchpad, as reported at [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qt4-x11/+bug/650539](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qt4-x11/+bug/650539) , and I was delighted to see the subsequent post
> Changed in xorg-server (Ubuntu):
status: 	Fix Committed &#8594; Fix Releasedbut then there came this post:
> tags: 	added: verification-failed
removed: verification-done 
What's the nature of the verification failure, does anyone know?  

I keep being tempted to install the patch, but I want to see the normal update process work, and I'm making do with non-Xinerama operation.  I like having panels on both monitors, but it's more important to me to share a single desktop between two monitors.  That said, I have noticed the same thing as MikeB in post #104 of the above Launchpad thread:
> On a side note, after being forced to use TwinView . . . due to this bug, I noticed that Xinerama is noticeably slower in responsiveness.Has anyone else noticed the same thing, and does anyone have any tips for speeding up Xinerama's responsiveness?

---

### Post by raydar on 2011-01-16
All fixed for me now in a normal Ubuntu update.  Here's the corresponding post from Launchpad ( [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qt4-x11/+bug/650539](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/qt4-x11/+bug/650539) ):
> Launchpad Janitor wrote on 2011-01-09: 	#141

This bug was fixed in the package xorg-server - 2:1.9.0-0ubuntu7.1

---------------
xorg-server (2:1.9.0-0ubuntu7.1) maverick-proposed; urgency=low

  * debian/patches/207_Xext_panoramiXprocs_fix_typo.patch:
    - This prevents Qt applications from crashing when using
      Xinerama multi-head with drivers such as nvidia (LP: #650539).
 -- Alberto Milone <email address hidden> Mon, 22 Nov 2010 18:55:50 +0100


---

### Post by popzero on 2011-05-27
I just wanted to add my 2 cents for what I was seeing happen for me with Virtualbox crashing with dual monitors and the Nvidia proprietary drivers just in case someone hits the same issue I did and how I resolved it. 

I have an Intel Core i7 with an Nvidia GTX480 card using the proprietary 270.41 drivers. Whenever I would start up Virtualbox after adding in the latest video drivers it would crash immediately, this was driving me crazy, so I started digging around and found that if I removed the xfs (X font server) package from my system Virtualbox works great! I have no idea why this removal help me but wanted to post something for others looking at possible solutions to the issue. :cool:

---

