---
title: "10.04 slow boot after login"
date: 2010-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by garmin on 2010-05-03
Hello!
 
I am experiencing a rather strange boot problem. After keying in my passwort at the login, it takes exactly 26sec until the Desktop is ready. I have checked bootchart and it seems that the udisk-daemon is blocking the boot process for some reason.
I have tried different disks, different memory, without dvd...always the same problem.
 
Last thing I did, was to put in the disk into another pc, different mainboard different proc and voila, it boots very quickly.
 
I suspect this to be due to my mainboard or proc, anyone with a similar problem or same hardware without problem or can somebody help me with that issue?
 
Any help is appreciated, thx!
 
Mainboard ASUS M4A78-E 
AMD Athlon 7750 Dual-Core Processor 
2x2GB DDR 
Radeon HD 3300 Graphics 
WDC WD5001AALS-0 500GB (System)
Seagate ST31000333AS 1TB(Backup)

---

### Post by petersonja on 2010-05-03
Hi!

I've got the same problem, but a very different computer. But after the login I only see the wallpaper for about 20 seconds. And in this time it isn't any disc operation, so I think it isn't normal.

Intel Celeron 1.3GHZ
Geforce FX 5200
1 GB RAM

Anybody know about this problem?

(Sorry for my english, I am from Romania)

---

### Post by garmin on 2010-05-03
Hi,
 
what Mainboard ar you using and what does bootchart tell? If you havent installed bootchart yet, please try.
sudo apt-get install bootchart
The log will be saved in /var/log/bootchart and has a grafic overview.
cheers

---

### Post by petersonja on 2010-05-03
Now I am not at home and this isn't my main computer, so I don't know what type of motherboard has it. But when I go home I'll see it and install the bootchart too. I hope we will find some solution. ;)

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-03
there is a timer of 10 seconds (sleep) into /etc/default/grub, you can reduce it a little (with: sudo gedit /etc/default/grub)

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo dpkg-reconfigure gdm
sudo dpkg-reconfigure plymouth

---

### Post by Orographic on 2010-05-03
Try this link, I had the same problem as mentioned here and this thread below fixed it for me. Boot is very fast now but was slow before this fix.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9205861#post9205861](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=9205861#post9205861)

---

### Post by garmin on 2010-05-03
ok, thx. i will try as soon as i am home from work and will report later.
cheers

---

### Post by Orographic on 2010-05-03
Hope it works out well for you.

---

### Post by petersonja on 2010-05-03
I disabled the Floppy Drive and this solved the problem. Now the boot is very fast, thanks everyone!

---

### Post by garmin on 2010-05-03
YESSSS! That solved the Problem - scary how fast it boots now:D! Thank you so much for the hint.
Cheers

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-03
For others reading this thread.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks/+bug/551712](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udisks/+bug/551712)

Also see the forums sticky for known issues/bugs.

---

### Post by ricsi-pontaz on 2010-05-03
This workaround solved my problem too. Cheers! :popcorn:

---

### Post by dizzlecorn on 2010-05-04
Someone please help me!  I do not have an option to disable the FD in BIOS.  I upgraded from Jaunty and now the boot after grub takes at least a minute before login.  Attached is my bootload pic.

---

### Post by martvi on 2010-05-08
Solved the same problem here.

---

### Post by oshirowanen on 2010-05-22
I have the same problem.  I have attached the bootchart image.  Please advise.  It takes about 15-20 seconds for the desktop to appear once the username/password is entered in.

[Here is the image]("https://doc-08-4k-docs.googleusercontent.com/docs/secure/ha0ro937gcuc7l7deffksulhg5h7mbp1/1oe94gnnage5pi3b40311imqhui8bgpf/1274529600000/08320270579224676109/*/0B1-CN3-vjUYvMGU4NWFiMmUtM2M1ZS00N2JlLWFlYzctZWU2Y2UwMjUxNjVh").

---

### Post by oshirowanen on 2010-05-25
Why do I have this floppy0 option in the places menu?

[click here to view image.]("http://docs.google.com/leaf?id=0B1-CN3-vjUYvMzMzOWFjYTgtZDliMC00Nzc3LTliZjMtMzFiMTcyNjBmOGZj&hl=en")

I do not have a floppy drive and I have disabled it from the bios.

---

