---
title: "Beryl &amp; XGL Errors"
date: 2007-01-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jaygo333 on 2007-01-09
I have many errors partaining to the installation of Beryl on my computer.
I followed the installation at the Beryl Wiki and installed Beryl.

the first time I ran it, my window borders have all disapered.Second most obvious error is that whenever I open the terminal, I get a black screen. This only affects the terminal.
The Beryl icon does not appear on the left corner of my Taskbar.

Any help greatly appreciated.

P.S. I heard Compiz was the opposition of Beryl. How do I go into seeing it?

Here's my xorg.conf file. Might help somehow


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder3) Fri Dec 15 10:12:14 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
RgbPath "/usr/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "dbe"
Load "extmod"
Load "type1"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
Option "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
# HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "COMPAQ P1210"
HorizSync 30.0 - 121.0
VertRefresh 50.0 - 160.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Videocard0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce 7900 GT/GTO"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "metamodes" "1280x1024 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection
__________________
Microsoft is NOT the Answer, Microsoft is the Question, the Answer is NO.!
Jaygo333 is online now Report Post   	Edit/Delete Message Reply With Quote Multi-Quote This Message Quick reply to this message
Jaygo333
View Public Profile
Send a private message to Jaygo333
Send email to Jaygo333
Find More Posts by Jaygo333
Add Jaygo333 to Your Buddy List
Unread 1 Minute Ago 	  #2
Jaygo333
A Carafe of Ubuntu
 
1 more thing, how do you use the Beryl- theme manager. When you click on the theme, there is no obvious change and there is no apply button.
__________________

---

### Post by ajmorris on 2007-01-09
i don't know why but for some people it works to set it back to metacity (i assume your using gnome) then press ctrl+alt+bksp then log back in then select beryl from the icon.

---

### Post by Jaygo333 on 2007-01-09
> **ajmorris said:**
> i don't know why but for some people it works to set it back to metacity (i assume your using gnome) then press ctrl+alt+bksp then log back in then select beryl from the icon.

How do i go back to metacity. My Beryl icon isnt showing on the corner of my screen.

And whats the big differenc ebetween beryl and metacity.
Also, do you know anything about Compiz?

---

### Post by ajmorris on 2007-01-09
go to a command line and type beryl-manager. Then the icon should appear in the taskbar. Then right click on the icon and select metacity. the difference between beryl and metacity is that metacity is Gnome's window manager and beryl is another one.

---

### Post by Jaygo333 on 2007-01-09
Ya, whenever, I type beryl-manager, Beryl runs but the icon does not appear...

---

### Post by Waappu on 2007-01-09
Hi

This might be stupid question but any way... Do you have notification are on your panel where icon should come?

---

### Post by Jaygo333 on 2007-01-09
I actually do, all my little icons show there,
the weather , Voulme , Beep Media (Messed up Spelling, too early in the morning )and the Quit Icon. 
So ya, my notification bar is there,

---

### Post by Jaygo333 on 2007-01-09
Ohh, ya, another stupid thing, how do you actually use the Berly - Theme Manager.

---

### Post by Waappu on 2007-01-09
Hi

Those little icons you name aren't in notification area. They are own panel applets as notification area is

---

### Post by ricks1950 on 2007-01-09
I get the same thing when I launch beryl-manager in a terminal.  I follow it up by entering "beryl-xgl &" without the quotes, and the beryl theme starts up.  When I close the terminal, it seems to start again, but at least it works.

I don't know why -- got the instruction from a website I don't remember, sorry!!

---

### Post by Jaygo333 on 2007-01-09
Thanks. wil try the other command you do.
And which panel are you talking about.

---

### Post by Waappu on 2007-01-09
> **Jaygo333 said:**
> And which panel are you talking about. I assume that you have gnome panel. But as I say this missing notification area might be stupid question and may not be reason why beryl icon not show.

Have you try to start Beryl pressing Alt+F2 and type beryl-manager?

---

