---
title: "via s3g unichrome setup-Ubuntu 8.10"
date: 2009-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hemicro on 2009-04-23
My on board graphic chip set uses s3g unichrome. I can only get a maximum resolution of 800x600 and in the monitor resolution screen I have a box in the center saying "unknown". I assume that it is referring to the monitor, but I have had no luck  in changing the resolution to a higher value. In Windows I am running 1280x768. I have installed Ubuntu 8.10. Any help?
I have found numerous threads relating to this problem and have finally come up with a solution. I am using Ubuntu 9.04, VIA S3G Unichrome Pro, and a Hyundai LCD monitor. I have attached the modified xorg.conf file that solved my problems. 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Hyundai"
	Option	"DPMS"
	HorizSync 31-80
	VertRefresh	56-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"LCD"
	Monitor		"Hyundai"
	Device		"VIAInt"
	DefaultDepth	24
	#	SubSection "Display"
	#	Depth 8
	#	Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"
	#	Virtual  1024 768
	#	ViewPort 0 0
	#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth 16
#		Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"
#		ViewPort 0 0
#		Virtual	800 600
#	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		ViewPort 0 0
		Depth 24
		Modes "1024x768" "1280x1024"
#		Virtual	1024 768
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"VIAInt"
	Driver "openchrome"
	BusID 	"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option 	"ActiveDevice" "LCD"
	# Option "LCDDualEdge" "true"
EndSection

---

