---
title: "11.04 Screen Freeze, hard boot required"
date: 2011-09-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by idealistic on 2011-09-21
Hi,

I'm using 11.04 since the release and had no problem with it, but when I returned from a month long trip and opened my computer again some problem appeared, and the major one is that my screen freezes and I lose control over keyboard, mouse, everything, and the only option that seems available (I tried to wait some hours but doesnt change) is to hard reboot the system which I believe may harm the hardware if you do it everyday ?
It seems to happen especially when I try to watch a video on the internet, or listen to music or play a sound file (internet or banshee).
It does also happen when I don't do anything special, except surfing the web.

Does anybody has an idea about that ?

i dont think its an hardware problem cause i runned the tests and everything seems fine, maybe just a bug because two programs are interacting in the wrong way or smthg ?

What command should I run to get precise system information that I can display here to help understanding the problem?

Thanks

---

### Post by breaks1200 on 2012-01-17
I am having the same problem and it just started recently. The screen, keyboard and mouse freeze. But if music is playing it continues to play through the speakers and my connection light on my network adapter still flashes, so I know it's not a complete lockup. Any ideas? I'm running 11.04

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2012-01-18
Hi, here is a link on freezing issues.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze)
one for how to safely shut down or reboot your computer when it is frozen.
[http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/](http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/)
Thanks

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2012-01-18
For system freezes, lagging, etc:  clean with bleachbit then power cycle.




HOW TO POWER CYCLE



Shut down your computer, the proper way if possible.

For a notebook or laptop, remove the computer's battery and then un-pug its cord from the laptop.

Switch off all your high-speed Internet equipment and then un-plug it from its power source.  Router too.

Wait for at least 30 seconds.

Re-connect your computer and Internet equipment in this specific order:
-Plug in your modem's power cord if you have high speed Internet. Give your modem time to get a sound Internet connection, which may take more than two minutes.
-Plug in your router, if you use one. Wait for the router's lights to come on to show it has a strong connection with the modem.
-Plug in your computer. For a laptop, you'll put the battery back in and then plug it in. Press the power button to turn it back on. Allow it to fully boot up, which it will now boot up normally. You will now also be able to re-establish your Internet connection with no problem.

---

