---
title: "16.04 LTS Recovery Approach"
date: 2017-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rocky3 on 2017-01-08
How do you suggest I approach recovery?  After loading 16.04 LTS, I discovered WIFI, DVD playback, and printing were not "plug and play", so . . . over the period of a couple weeks, you guys helped me get these apps running.  thanks!!!  

At this point, I wouldn't want to loose all the settings that enabled these apps.  I'm not done installing apps, but I fear, that in the process of installing/tweeking, I may loose some, or all the settings you helped me apply.   I would prefer to have a trailing recovery where I could always recover changes up until a week prior so that I can keep tweeking and then apply a new recovery with the latest changes each week.   How do you suggest I approach recovery? Should I get an ISO image. . .. Should I create a bootable persistent USB?  Please advise. 

Very Respectfully

---

### Post by chris354 on 2017-01-08
Take a snapshot/backup of the file system prior to adding any applications. At least that way if it really comes down to it you have the option to reinstall the backup.

---

### Post by Geoffrey_Arndt on 2017-01-08
If you take good notes (how to enable dvd, printing, wifi) with Links to original instructions, the process of "tweaking" a new install should take 30" or less (max 30" . . . can be done easily in 15").   I use a very simple wiki-like database to capture all these "techy how-to's (Zim) . . . and be redoing the modifications, you learn and it gets easier and easier.    BTW, wifi can be plug and play with the right hardware . . . . [http://www.pandawireless.com/](http://www.pandawireless.com/)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-01-09
You could use something like Clonezilla or fsarchiver to do a full backup of the partition whenever you want. Break something, restore the backup.

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2017-01-09
+1 for take good notes.

You never fix printing or WiFi or DVD just once, like you never fix a leaky faucet just once. After a few years of good service, the faucet starts to leak again. You get a new printer. Someone wants to connect to your printer or WiFi. You get new hardware and must install on it. You make the wrong choice during an upgrade and your custom config is erased. A new subsystem can't read your custom config.

---

### Post by hphde on 2017-01-10
Backup +1 - get a external HD and just do it with any backup tool. It's wise to have a backup anyway. External 1TB 2.5" costs about 60 bucks or less.

---

