---
title: "15.10 to 16.04 - AMD ATI Not displaying multiple monitors"
date: 2016-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Clanstyles on 2016-04-23
I have an Radeon HD 7970/8970. Prior to 16.04, I had the proprietary AMD drivers installed. Dual monitors worked. During the upgrade to 16.04, I was aware that the proprietary drivers weren't supported. Before I upgraded, I removed them, installed the open source drivers and restarted. Everything continued to work. Once I upgraded the dual monitors weren't displayed. The system only sees one monitor, but the display is setup to mirror on both. 

I booted from the 16.04 Live CD and confirmed that the other monitor would work and it does. 

I'm not sure what to do, any ideas to try and get my other monitor working would be great.

---

### Post by UbuntuAddict99 on 2016-04-26
Hello Clanstyles,

Now this is a interesting issue because it seems you did the correct thing to me with the drivers.
 But it more than likely it is just the drivers.

Now i have also been hearing ALOT of bugs with 16.04 LTS so far because it is still so fresh, and so young, that is when the most bugs are going to be encountered,
So my advice and i am NOT, an expert is to either try and check your drivers on the AMD website and try to get a Linux version of them,
or just contact AMD themselves for the solution. 

And also another thing which some people seem to miss is if your PC has a "Fn" (Function key that is usually blue) there is a special key combination to turn on and off different monitors. I know it is not a perfect answer but i hope have at leased helped but my personal opinion is the 16.04 LTS Operating System its self. If all else fail you can go back to 14.04 LTS or just re-install 16.04 LTS.

Happy Linuxing.

"Linux Ubuntu The Final Frontier!"
                                              -UbuntuAddict99

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2016-04-27
Why did you post in "chit chat" area rather than general help?

anyway try to remove xorg.conf or any residual trace form fglrx if you say it all works well with opensource drivers. and also how did you remove the fglrx drivers?

---

### Post by slickymaster on 2016-04-27
*Thread moved to **General Help**.*

@Clanstyles:
The Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat, where you first posted is the place for chat and discussion about any aspect of Ubuntu, Linux or any operating system and its software. Technical support requests should be posted in an appropriate support sub-forum.

---

### Post by Clanstyles on 2016-05-03
> **mastablasta said:**
> Why did you post in "chit chat" area rather than general help?

anyway try to remove xorg.conf or any residual trace form fglrx if you say it all works well with opensource drivers. and also how did you remove the fglrx drivers?

I didn't mean to post in this section and right after I noticed my error and hoped that somebody would see my cry for help.

```
locate xorg.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-amdgpu.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-evdev.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-quirks.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/11-evdev-quirks.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/11-evdev-trackpoint.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/50-synaptics.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/50-vmmouse.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/50-wacom.conf
/usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/51-synaptics-quirks.conf
/usr/share/man/man5/xorg.conf.5.gz
/usr/share/man/man5/xorg.conf.d.5.gz
```

I don't have an xorg.config

> **slickymaster said:**
> *Thread moved to **General Help**.*

@Clanstyles:
The Ubuntu, Linux and OS Chat, where you first posted is the place for chat and discussion about any aspect of Ubuntu, Linux or any operating system and its software. Technical support requests should be posted in an appropriate support sub-forum.


Thank you for moving it.

---

