---
title: "9.04 - Have to set GW each time I reboot"
date: 2010-01-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Overcast32 on 2010-01-26
ok - not sure what I did wrong here.. 

9.04 Server

I set static IP's on both NICS on this machine, just prior to installing the ubuntu-desktop. 

After I assign a GW I get connected fine (route add default gw 192.168.0.1)

I'll post my 'interfaces' file - I don't think I missed anything but... 

```
# The primary network interface
auto eth2
iface eth2 inet static
	address 192.168.0.2
	netmask 255.255.255.0
	network 192.168.0.0
	broadcast 192.168.0.255
	gateway 192.168.0.1
	# dns-* options are implemented by the resolvconf package, if installed
	dns-nameservers 192.168.0.1
#	dns-search fm-forest.com

# The Seconday network interface
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet static
	address 192.168.0.3
	netmask 255.255.255.0
	network 192.168.0.0
	broadcast 192.168.0.255
	gateway 192.168.0.1
	dns-nameservers 192.168.0.1
#	dns-search fm-forest.com
```

Don't seem to have connectivity past the LAN until I add this - obviously, I guess.. That was what clued me in to this being a problem with the gateway.

---

### Post by Overcast32 on 2010-01-26
Any ideas on this - or a suggestion on where to add the route in a startup script maybe?

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-01-26
I don't see a eth0 in your interfaces list.
what is the output of ifconfig

---

### Post by Overcast32 on 2010-01-26
Well - I'll post it, but I just made a change - I noted 'Network Manager' wasn't working - [according to this link]("http://live.gnome.org/DarrenAlbers/NetworkManagerFAQ#My_Card_is_not_recognized_by_NetworkManager_and_I_am_running_Debian_or_Ubuntu:") - if I want Network Manager to manage the connections, I comment out all of the stuff in *interfaces* - except for loopback. 

It may be different now - I did that and didn't need to add a Gateway this time, but I need one of these NICS static (commenting out made it all DHPC), I'll try to make it static in NetMgr but last time I did that - it just *disappeared*

I've reloaded a couple of times with this setup and only ran into this with static IP's

*****************************
eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:07:95:e2:13:33  
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:12 Base address:0xd400 

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:a0:c9:65:33:7e  
          inet addr:192.168.0.9  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::2a0:c9ff:fe65:337e/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:329 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:109 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:105721 (105.7 KB)  TX bytes:17311 (17.3 KB)

eth2      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:01:03:26:9d:f5  
          inet addr:192.168.0.11  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::201:3ff:fe26:9df5/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:989 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:1 frame:0
          TX packets:450 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:844018 (844.0 KB)  TX bytes:47792 (47.7 KB)
          Interrupt:12 Base address:0xef80 
*****

ETH0 is the onboard NIC - which I don't have plugged in right now, at all. ETH1 and ETH2 are wired.

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2010-01-26
Also do research on the pitfalls of having 2 nics on the same network with 2 identical default gateways, this is not how you are supposed to setup dual interfaces.

If they are intended for failover, then you should do a bit of research into that. I would bet that if you only set one, you would not have a problem.


For non-critical stuff I would use a static DHCP lease, and make sure you always get it on boot.

---

### Post by djchandler on 2010-01-26
Which between the gateway and the server is handling DHCP chores? Or do all nodes on the LAN have static IPs? If so, has the gateway's DHCP server function been disabled?

I do not think there's a problem in your 2 NIC configs listed, although where is eth0? Is there a third network interface on this box? There being no eth0 could signify a hardware problem, maybe on the motherboard or its BIOS settings. Is there a LAN port enabled on the MB besides the two NICs?

I had a similar problem once with a gateway. It kept confusing a computer running a proprietary Windows-based HTTP server for intranet with being another router, i.e., a router behind the router. I quite frankly don't remember what the solution was, as it was handled by the ISP tech because we were also having bad dropouts caused by RFI (a couple AM radio transmitters within a couple of miles) and losing connectivity to the ISP/WAN/internet at the time too. I suspect there was a firmware upgrade/change on the router.

We need more data before we can give you an answer.

---

### Post by djchandler on 2010-01-26
> **Overcast32 said:**
> ETH0 is the onboard NIC - which I don't have plugged in right now, at all. ETH1 and ETH2 are wired.

You need to disable the LAN function on your motherboard in your BIOS then.

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2010-01-26
I have no fewer than 4 unoccupied nics on some of my machines, I don't think that is your issue.

---

### Post by djchandler on 2010-01-26
> **t4thfavor said:**
> Also do research on the pitfalls of having 2 nics on the same network with 2 identical default gateways, this is not how you are supposed to setup dual interfaces.

The only time I had 2 NICs in one box was for a ***bridge*** between two different incompatible networks, one for windows (netbios or netbui) and  a couple of Macs running Ethertalk. This was back in the olden days when the protocols were incompatible and it wasn't practicable at the time to use TCP/IP as Mac system 7 only supported TCP/IP on dial-up modems. (Yeah, this is ancient history).

The point is that the software network bindings to the NICs were totally separate and different.

Are you trying to set up a subnet for some purpose? I suggest looking at this:
[http://www.extremeoverclocking.com/articles/howto/FAH_Diskless_Farm_1.html](http://www.extremeoverclocking.com/articles/howto/FAH_Diskless_Farm_1.html)

For thin clients, look at these:
[http://www.ltsp.org/](http://www.ltsp.org/)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/UbuntuLTSP)

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2010-01-26
He has both nic's on the same subnet with the same gateway, nobody else sees a problem there?

---

### Post by djchandler on 2010-01-26
> **t4thfavor said:**
> I have no fewer than 4 unoccupied nics on some of my machines, I don't think that is your issue.

But you don't ignore them in your configuration, do you? Somehow there must be a handler/config for an active (even if it isn't connected externally) NIC.

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2010-01-26
I believe they just say eth0 auto or something like that, I never touched them since install.

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2010-01-26
Here it is, and my setup works perfect (DHCP static lease of course).

```

sudo lspci|grep Ethernet

02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Corporation NetXtreme BCM5751 Gigabit Ethernet PCI Express (rev 01)
04:02.0 Ethernet controller: Lite-On Communications Inc LNE100TX (rev 20)
04:03.0 Ethernet controller: 3Com Corporation 3c905B 100BaseTX [Cyclone] (rev 30)

ifconfig -a

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:11:11:3d:c8:88  
          inet addr:192.168.1.127  Bcast:192.168.1.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fe80::211:11ff:fe3d:c888/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:698 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:300 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:61544 (61.5 KB)  TX bytes:53083 (53.0 KB)
          Interrupt:16 

eth1      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:a0:cc:d9:43:b2  
          BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:18 Base address:0xcc00 

eth2      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 00:50:04:20:f5:b4  
          BROADCAST MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:0 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:0 (0.0 B)  TX bytes:0 (0.0 B)
          Interrupt:16 Base address:0xee80 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:21 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:21 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:1440 (1.4 KB)  TX bytes:1440 (1.4 KB)
cat /etc/network/interfaces

# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

```

I guess I'm special, as I have 3 nics, one onboard, and only one in use/configured.

These were all taken via ssh from a remote site so I know the network is working.

I still say it's multiple nics on same subnet.

---

### Post by djchandler on 2010-01-26
> **t4thfavor said:**
> I still say it's multiple nics on same subnet.

You're right about that. They should be separate subnets on separate routers or hubs/switches now that I look at it again.

Quite frankly I'm really confused about what the goal is here. But I started taking stabs at this since no one else was giving the OP anything yet, and he'd already "bumped" it once, about 9 hours in between. The one thing I did know is we didn't know enough to be that much of a help.

I'm just now having my first morning cup. That's my excuse and I'm sticking to it.:D

---

### Post by t4thfavor on 2010-01-26
Just as a training excercise make 2 of your nics have exactly the same info except for the ip, 

nic one
ip 192.168.1.100
gw 192.168.1.1
mask 255.255.255.0

nic two
ip 192.168.1.101
gw 192.168.1.1
mask 255.255.255.0

Now plug em into the same switch and try talking out to the rest of the network, then try talking into the machine It won't work.

[http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&client=firefox-a&rls=com.ubuntu:en-US:official&hs=PqU&ei=mSJfS8GFB5C4NrfapeQL&sa=X&oi=spell&resnum=0&ct=result&cd=1&ved=0CAYQBSgA&q=%2Bmultiple+NICs+same+subnet&spell=1](http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&client=firefox-a&rls=com.ubuntu:en-US:official&hs=PqU&ei=mSJfS8GFB5C4NrfapeQL&sa=X&oi=spell&resnum=0&ct=result&cd=1&ved=0CAYQBSgA&q=%2Bmultiple+NICs+same+subnet&spell=1)

---

### Post by Overcast32 on 2010-01-26
Naa, I'm still around - yeah, I did sorta' bump it, posted it late and it was just buried.. So 'commented on my own work of confusion' there, heh

Thing is - if I put in the GW manually, it would work.

So.. I found this: ["My Card is not recognized by NetworkManager and I am running Debian or Ubuntu"]("http://live.gnome.org/DarrenAlbers/NetworkManagerFAQ#My_Card_is_not_recognized_by_NetworkManager_and_I_am_running_Debian_or_Ubuntu:")

I just commented out pretty much everything but the loopback in *interfaces* and set them up with Network Manager.

The odd part was - with 9.10, when I defined a static IP in NetworkManager, it would 'loose' the card - I guess it put an entry in *interfaces*.

But they are using the same Gateway for now. It was more or less a temporary setup. I am primarily using this box for WebContent Filters with Dansguardian + Squid + Iptables - and it's working good now.

My original plan was to put this box in between the router and cable modem to force all traffic through it, but honestly I found it better overall to just make it a proxy server and block outbound connections to port 80 on all other machines. This keeps out of the way of gaming, most streaming, and I work via a VPN sometimes - so it only deals with port 80 traffic :)

I know even Windows doesn't care for identical gateways on various NICS.. didn't think of that to be honest. 

Thanks to all who posted though, I got more out of the thread anyway as well. I've been working off and on with *nix systems for a while now. Don't spend as much time fooling with them as I like. I end up getting into gaming and then start messing with something like this out of a need and start getting all into it.
 :twisted:

I was actually surprised it found the Onboard NIC so quickly. So my next 'project' might be using that instead. I wanted to 'lock' the IP primary communications during all the setup of ubuntu and the filtering stuff - so if I do flip to another NIC and use that IP, the filtering layers should stay happy.

I might just pull that 3COM and INTEL - I used those, because even Win95 sees that IntelPro100, lol

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-01-27
> **Overcast32 said:**
>  because even Win95 sees that IntelPro100, lol
That isn't always a good thing.

---

