---
title: "5.1 sound and Compiz"
date: 2008-05-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xrecar on 2008-05-25
Hello, thanks for reading in. I came here because I have a freshly installed Hardy on my PC and I finally managed to configure it the way i want it, yet My 5.1 sound clicks or pauses while opening/minimizing a window when compiz is activated.

Here are some facts about My Comp.

>> nVidia FX5200 (128MB) with it's drivers installed and working properly.
>> Creative Sound Blaster Live 5.1 with PulseAudio properly configured and working with paconfig.deb (a GUI downloaded from these formus)
>> Maxtor 250GB Hard drive.
>> 1.5 GB of RAM
>> AMD Sempron 2500+ Processor.
 
Hope to get some help or to be directed to a solution if this has happened to anybody before, I don't want to go back to windows and the blue screen of death.

Thanks in Advance,
-Chris

---

### Post by doctorwho? on 2008-05-25
tried the blacklist script ? *shrugs* just guessing :S

---

### Post by xrecar on 2008-05-26
Nope. Haven't. As I Edit this post, I'm using audacious on 5.1 sound and the problem persists.it has happened with exaile, rhythmbox and amarok too.

---

### Post by xrecar on 2008-06-04
no one knows about any solution yet?

---

### Post by MeURi on 2008-06-05
Could be an issue due to not being in the correct groups for PulseAudio

Try to see if your user belongs to groups "pulse", "pulse-access" and "pulse-rt"

If you're on Gnome, go to System>Administration>Users and Groups, and choose *Manage Groups*; then edit the groups mentioned above and check the users you want to associate with PulseAudio

Hope this helps

---

