---
title: "(9.10) Mouse lags on keyboard press."
date: 2009-11-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Darkangel14615 on 2009-11-11
I just installed 32bit 9.10 the other day, a fresh install (was on 64bit 9.04). I notice now that pressing any key on my keyboard causes the mouse to hang for about a full second. It doesn't matter what programs are open or what's going on at the current time (at least not that I'd noticed).

Not sure what info you might need, but some basics:

Compaq Presario V6210US laptop.
2GHz Turion 64 Mobile MK-36
1GB DDR2 800 RAM
Synaptic PS/2 Touchpad, etc.

No other OSes installed, this one is more or less fresh besides removing/replacing a few unneeded apps (Transmission for Vuze, Empathy for Pidgin, Rhythmbox for Exaile, etc.).

I've also noticed that this doesn't happen with a USB mouse, only the PS/2 touchpad.

Let me know if this has been posted (I didn't notice it paging through posts) and if you need any other info just tell me what to do and I'll get it right to you. It's probably something simple that I've overlooked, but despite using Ubuntu for a few years now, I've not learned much besides the basics of fixing whatever more common problems needed to be fixed.

---

### Post by Darkangel14615 on 2009-11-13
Bump with update. It seems it's not any key on the keyboard, but letter keys and some other modifiers like Caps Lock that cause this.

Does anyone have any ideas on how to solve this?

---

### Post by undecim on 2009-11-13
In mouse preferences, look at the touchpad tab and uncheck "disable touchpad while typing"

---

### Post by Darkangel14615 on 2009-11-13
I should have known it was something so braindead easy. I feel like an idiot.

Many thanks to you, undecim.

---

### Post by romwell on 2011-03-17
> **undecim said:**
> In mouse preferences, look at the touchpad tab and uncheck "disable touchpad while typing"
I have the same problem, and, unfortunately, your solution did not help. Specifically,

- mouse cursor lags for about half a second whenever any key is pressed on keyboard;
- "disable touchpad while typing" option is unchecked in mouse preferences;
- mouseemu have never been present on the system (other threads recommended its    removal).

I am running Ubuntu 10.10 on an EeePC 1000HE with Elantech touchpad.

Do you know of any other way to fix it? 
Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by cyb3rkn19ht on 2011-10-10
Here is another way to fix it:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4310834&postcount=6](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=4310834&postcount=6)

I used this on my desktop but it may help you too.

---

