---
title: "10.10 freeze at boot"
date: 2011-01-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aciddreams on 2011-01-23
I just downloaded and installed Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook Edition for my Toshiba Tecra A4 laptop, but the system first froze at the default desktop picture (nothing was loaded except the arrow). Tried restarting only to find it frozen on the purple boot screen again with only the mouse arrow loaded (I can move it around). Thanks in advance for the help

**Note:** The same thing happened when I tried to boot Ubuntu from CD (without installing)

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-01
Exact same issue...

Works in Classic.

---

### Post by marios88 on 2011-06-01
What GFX card does your laptop have?

---

### Post by dnguyen1963 on 2011-06-01
> **aciddreams said:**
> I just downloaded and installed Ubuntu 10.10 Netbook Edition for my Toshiba Tecra A4 laptop, but the system first froze at the default desktop picture (nothing was loaded except the arrow). Tried restarting only to find it frozen on the purple boot screen again with only the mouse arrow loaded (I can move it around). Thanks in advance for the help

**Note:** The same thing happened when I tried to boot Ubuntu from CD (without installing)

I have found the Netbook version of Ubuntu to be problematic.  Desktop version works just fine on many netbooks.  Installation was performed with a flash drive.

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-01
It's an ATI Mobility Radeon X700.

Ubuntu just crashed completely on the laptop.

Kernel Panic - not syncing: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on unknown-block(0,0)
And about half a screen  of other stuff...

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-01
> **dnguyen1963 said:**
> I have found the Netbook version of Ubuntu to be problematic.  Desktop version works just fine on many netbooks.  Installation was performed with a flash drive.


Worked twice when I used ubuntu classic.

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-02
I am busy installing 10.10 desktop, will see how that goes and update the thread.

Not a very nice laptop this anyway.

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-02
Desktop Edition, same issue (system froze at the default desktop picture). Can only get in with safe mode.

---

### Post by Narchie on 2011-06-02
I uninstalled the ATI drivers and now it works, pity as I was hoping to give the laptop a 2n'd life with Ubuntu, back to XP if I can't find a working driver for the GPU :(

---

### Post by dnguyen1963 on 2011-06-02
> **Narchie said:**
> I uninstalled the ATI drivers and now it works, pity as I was hoping to give the laptop a 2n'd life with Ubuntu, back to XP if I can't find a working driver for the GPU :(

Give ArtistX a try.  It is based on Ubuntu 10.04 LTS, but for some reasons, it works much more smoothly.  I have ArtistX on an old HP (7yrs) with 1 gb of RAM and the system runs much faster than my 3 yrs old Vista Dell.

---

