---
title: "10.04 bootcheck help"
date: 2012-09-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dewme5 on 2012-09-03
I am trying to revitalize an old laptop for use exclusively for a fuel injection tuning computer.

I have a bigger better laptop, but in a car environment, I would rather sacrifice the old version.

It has no cd input, PXE boot is difficult with this model, to say the least, and USB boot is not supported.  So, that pretty much leaves me with 10.04.

I would like to keep wifi, usb, and java (I know, wish I didn't need it, but the fueling software requires it), and touchscreen (stylus mouse screen is more like it).

I have switched to LXDE to free up some resources.  I would love to remove a few extra bits of dead weight.  

The real issue for me, is boot time.  I know I can't ask to much with the hardware I've been dealt, but as much as an improvement as possible would certainly be enjoyable.  I do see a SSD in my future.

Every time I start my car, this needs to load up.  sometimes 10x a day.  Engine gauges will be a function of this computer, so it is most certainly necessary.

I'm attaching a bootchart, and I can clearly see about 10 seconds of dead time, and lots of other room for improvements.  I just do not understand how some of the inner workings function, so I can make the improvements.

What can I do?

[IMG]http://img69.imageshack.us/img69/2647/ubuntulucid201209034.png

---

### Post by davetv on 2012-09-03
tune/run car from a pandaboard with a (many available) touchscreen lcd ... cheap ... runs debian ... easy. Boot time <= 10 seconds with unnecessary daemons removed.

---

### Post by dewme5 on 2012-09-03
> **davetv said:**
> tune/run car from a pandaboard with a (many available) touchscreen lcd ... cheap ... runs debian ... easy. Boot time <= 10 seconds with unnecessary daemons removed.

While pandaboard looks nice, how would it be faster then a laptop when the software is comparable, and running from a SSD?

And, since I have the laptop, why not make use of it?

---

