---
title: "8.10 Will not detect my display, stuck at 800x600"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LegacyPCftw on 2008-11-08
Well, I've just downloaded and installed the latest version of Xubuntu, Intrepid Ibex, for my ageing laptop. Its a nice little 13" Toshiba Portege, but Xubuntu refuses to recognise my resolution: it is stuck at 800 x 600 instead of running at the native 1024 x 768. The screen resulution selecter does not show 1024 x 768.
Is there any way to get it running at full resolution? The video adapter is a Trident Cyblade, so Xubuntu is probably using a generic driver for it.
Any help will be greatly appreciated! :)

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-11-08
Can you do provide some information through:-
1) Copy the contents of the Xorg log file with:-
```
cp /var/log/Xorg.0.log ~/Xorg.log
```
and can you then post the contents of that file?

---

### Post by hairyharry7 on 2008-11-13
you can try to edit your xorg.conf (/etc/X11/) **MAKE A BACKUP FIRST THOUGH**

there should be a "Screen" section in there.  Within the screen section there may be a "Display" subsection where it says "Virtual   1780 800" (or something like that).  try commenting out the "Virtual..." line (by inserting a # at the beginning of it).  That should work...

---

### Post by t3k on 2008-12-17
I'm having the same problem but my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file is empty :confused:

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-12-17
> **t3k said:**
> I'm having the same problem but my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file is empty :confused:

Did you try starting Ubuntu in Recovery Mode and running xfix?

---

