---
title: "CPU fan controls do not work in 12.04"
date: 2012-06-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-05
Hello UF

i had used lm-sensors and fancontrol to get my CPU fan from spinning at 1100 rpm all the time down to a more acceptable speed...

Problem is that the settings i used in Oneiric do nothing in precise. Here is an old thread where i had tried to get it to work for the first time and it worked.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1955846](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1955846)

I used the exact same steps as I did back then to reproduce the settings, but they do not work at all. Am I missing something?:confused:

thanks in advance

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-06
lé bump

---

### Post by drdos2006 on 2012-06-06
I have a Gigabyte motherboard as well. I found that I had to turn off fan control in the BIOS so that the software could control the fan.

regards

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-07
> **drdos2006 said:**
> I have a Gigabyte motherboard as well. I found that I had to turn off fan control in the BIOS so that the software could control the fan.

regards

Gigabyte? i have my hardware in my sig, a MSI Z68 board is far from a  gigabyte board. If i have anything Gigabyte its my graphics card... Also, in the other thread i had written there is no option for fan control in the BIOS. In windows i have a program (which was delivered with the motherboard) that lets me turn it to 50% speed. Otherwise the fan runs 100% ALL the time, even on windows and i can only turn the speed down using that specific program. My problem is right now, that despite doing **_the exact same steps_** as before installing lm-sensors and fancontrol, applying **_the very same parameters_** for the configuration, my fan won't slow down, which it **_did_** in oneiric, so my question is, what am i doing wrong now that worked back then?

thanks for the reply anways

regards

---

### Post by Redblade20XX on 2012-06-07
Just a suggestion. When you moved from your previous Ubuntu installation to 12.04, did you do a clean install or an upgrade? Usually when stuff like this happens to me its do to carried over configurations. Sorry if this doesn't help.

-Red

---

### Post by drdos2006 on 2012-06-07
Very sorry for the confusion. Bleary eyed when quickly posting and Gigabyte stood out in your signature.

Sounds like your motherboard was designed to run under Windows OS.
I have zero experience with MSI, maybe check out the manufacturers site for any linux drivers, any updates for the BIOS, maybe a linux update changed something.


regards

[edit]
lm-sensors works well in 12.04 on my ASUS motherboard and my Gigabyte boards.
[/edit]

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-07
> **drdos2006 said:**
> Very sorry for the confusion. Bleary eyed when quickly posting and Gigabyte stood out in your signature.

Sounds like your motherboard was designed to run under Windows OS.
I have zero experience with MSI, maybe check out the manufacturers site for any linux drivers, any updates for the BIOS, maybe a linux update changed something.


regards

[edit]
lm-sensors works well in 12.04 on my ASUS motherboard and my Gigabyte boards.
[/edit]

thanks for the answer

I **_ALWAYS_** make fresh installs, no exceptions. My motherboard **is** supported by lm-sensors, i did find it in the list for compatibility...but even on Windows fancontrol is not "automatic" it spins on solid 1100 rpm (100%) all the time. And i got it to ***automatically*** go to lower speeds using lm-sensors in Ubuntu 11.10, which now does not work, using the same steps and settings i did before to get it working.

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-08
no further ideas?

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-09
So after tracing my steps back even further, i remembered what exactly made the fan slower in Oneiric. It did not work at the first configuration, until i tried later again and set one parameter different than before. It was the parameter to set for the minimum start spinup (or something like this). Here is what the current configuration file looks like ```
# Configuration file generated by pwmconfig, changes will be lost
INTERVAL=10
DEVPATH=hwmon1=devices/platform/f71882fg.656
DEVNAME=hwmon1=f71889a
FCTEMPS=1-0290/pwm1=1-0290/temp3_input  hwmon1/device/pwm1=hwmon1/device/temp3_input
FCFANS=1-0290/pwm1=1-0290/fan1_input  hwmon1/device/pwm1=
MINTEMP=1-0290/pwm1=43  hwmon1/device/pwm1=38
MAXTEMP=1-0290/pwm1=53  hwmon1/device/pwm1=55
[COLOR="Red"]MINSTART=1-0290/pwm1=50[/COLOR]  hwmon1/device/pwm1=30
MINSTOP=1-0290/pwm1=105  hwmon1/device/pwm1=0
MAXPWM= hwmon1/device/pwm1=100
``` So it has exactly the same parameters, even at MINSTART (which slowed it down in the first place), but it is not slowing it down anymore.

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-11
No ideas, anybody?

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-20
*polite bump*

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-27
**[SIZE="3"]The Weekly Bump[/SIZE]**

in today's edition, we present yet another bump in request for a solution of the previously mention problems

in all humblety,


regards

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2012-06-29
So, since i was not able to get it working on my current install i installed some Ubuntu versions on a seperate partition trying to get it to work. The result was, that there it worked on 12.04 (and 10.10,11.04,11.10). I was not able to get it working on my original install whatsoever, so i decided to reinstall it and get it working (since fan control is a major thing for me). Now i am done installing and configuring everything again.


Thanks for the help from everyone that posted here so far


kudos

---

