---
title: "All my ntfs partitions and usb thumbdrive open when i log-on"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pcvii on 2009-11-18
I was trying to install the right packages to compile pulseaudio's new version and ntfs3g's new version. And i had installed xbmc to try it out. i don't think that's causing it.

and after I rebooted something seems different. oh all these drive's folders open up now. Maybe it's cause they are mounted.

So I think I installed something I don't need or a setting got changed that doesn't need changed. Any idea's would be of help.

I do have my ntfs drives set to automount on boot.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-11-19
> **pcvii said:**
> I was trying to install the right packages to compile pulseaudio's new version and ntfs3g's new version. And i had installed xbmc to try it out. i don't think that's causing it.

and after I rebooted something seems different. oh all these drive's folders open up now. Maybe it's cause they are mounted.

So I think I installed something I don't need or a setting got changed that doesn't need changed. Any idea's would be of help.

I do have my ntfs drives set to automount on boot.

Look at your /etc/fstab file.

---

### Post by pcvii on 2009-11-19
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdc1 :
UUID=06f5febd-7d95-492c-9f59-3ab148014eb5 / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdc5 :
UUID=0c234b9d-c0cd-4cc4-87ec-e9a6f527ccee none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/ntfs4 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdd1 /media/ntfs320 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/ntfs34 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/ntfs80 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```

Everything seems fine. It seemed like the problem I was happening happened every time I logged in. But it doesn't seem like it is every time.

Just sometimes the they all open up in windows when i log in.

---

### Post by emigrant on 2009-11-19
have you given 'remember session' ?

---

### Post by pcvii on 2009-11-19
it doesn't have remember session on atleast last time i saw the option i left it off. not sure where it was.

i noticed i had gnome volume manager and thunar volman settings installed. Am I supposed to have both? or neither?

newer issue is the usb thumbdrive doesn't always mount and if it is mounting it's not showing up on the desktop or the Places list. and the hard drive and cdrom aren't all pretty named. like the cdrom is called cdrom0. I don't think that's how it was.

if it's possible something got messed up from haveing the testing repository open can i revert to an older version of everything after disabling the repository? is there a way with apt-get?

--Update--

I might just backup my home folder and reinstall later. One thing I don't like about linux is I always seem to mess it up. :P Given enough time I always install something or do something I'm not supposed to and cause the thing to go well at-least stop acting as it should.

---

