---
title: "12.04, Holding Kernel with Synaptic, Making Sure I'm Not Mistaken"
date: 2014-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SciGuy1872 on 2014-10-16
Right now, the kernel is 3.2.0-70; I meant to hold the kernel after a fresh install and restoring because after HWE, the update broke the Nvidia installer (a Linux-specializing Nvidia tech emailed me).  I used Synaptic and saw that -68, -69, were locked; am I doing the right thing by using Synaptic?, because the -68 should not have become the --69 and -70.  I locked all mentions of -70, so now they are locked with -68 and -69.  Should I just lock all package names under the search "kernel"--would that be okay?
     Thanks,
          Sciguy

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-10-16
I think the difficulty you face is that kernel updates are not usually just version updates but newly named packages so version locking in synaptic will not stop new kernel numbers from being installed.

I think the only way you can assure that this does not happen is to keep a close watch on the updates that are available and not accept the kernel updates that appear.  You can also make sure that your system always boots to the same kernel in a variety of ways, ie by using grub-customiser or by editing the **/etc/default/grub** file.

Details are shown in [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

---

### Post by SciGuy1872 on 2014-10-17
Thanks for the information, ajgreeny.  After reading the wiki, Grub 2 Basics, I figured I wanted to run this command: 

anthony@anthony-desktop:~$ sudo grub-set-default 3.2.0-70-generic-pae
anthony@anthony-desktop:~$

I figured this beause of this part in the wiki:[B]
grub-set-default[/B]. Sets the default boot entry until changed.

[LIST]
[*]The format is "sudo grub-set-default [COLOR=Red]X[/COLOR], with [COLOR=Red]X[/COLOR] being the menuentry position (starting with 0 as the first entry) or the exact menu string.  Examples: *sudo grub-set-default 3* or[B] *sudo grub-set-default "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.32-15-generic*
[/B] 
[/LIST]

The command I entered seems correct because I got no error; the prompt just returned to** $**.  Did this tell the OS to hold the kernel version; is there a line in the named file that I still need to edit?  I'd rather not mess around with something so vital as the Grub bootloader.  If I did succeed with the attempt, do I still need to check the updates for kernel versions?

The file in **etc/default/grub**, after sudo update-grub, still reports this:

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

Thanks,
   Sciguy

---

### Post by plucky on 2014-10-18
> **SciGuy1872 said:**
> Right now, the kernel is 3.2.0-70; I meant to hold the kernel after a fresh install and restoring because after HWE, the update broke the Nvidia installer (a Linux-specializing Nvidia tech emailed me).  I used Synaptic and saw that -68, -69, were locked; am I doing the right thing by using Synaptic?, because the -68 should not have become the --69 and -70.  I locked all mentions of -70, so now they are locked with -68 and -69.  Should I just lock all package names under the search "kernel"--would that be okay?
     Thanks,
          Sciguy

If you are running the 3.2.0-xx kernel and **do not run the HWE upgrade**,you will stay on the 3.2.0-xx kernel and will recieve 3.2.0-xx kernel upgrades until April 2017.

See [LTS Enablement Stack](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/LTSEnablementStack)

What you don't want to do is run the HWE upgrade which would pull in the Quantal/Trusty kernel and break the Nvidia installer.

I see no point in locking each kernel as newer kernels will still be installed and might have security bug fixes included.

**Just make sure you don't run the HWE upgrade.**

Good Luck

---

