---
title: "10.04 Changing a user's full name"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kazade on 2010-05-02
I don't know if it's just this morning's hangover or this is really missing from GNOME...

Earlier this morning I made my girlfriend an account on my Ubuntu desktop, I entered all the information, (username, full name etc.) and it worked fine. When I went to GDM I noticed that it displays both her full name, and username, but I seem to have my first name only as both my full name and user name (it just says "luke" twice).

I hadn't really paid attention to this before, but now it looked really odd with my girlfriend's full name, but only my first name. So I went to change it... can someone please explain to me where to do that?

I tried System->Preferences->About Me and System->Administration->Users and Groups, but I can't see "Full name" anywhere. In the end I used chfn on the command line to do it, but surely Ubuntu 10.04 isn't missing graphical a way to change a users full name is it?

If I'm not just being stupid I'll report it as a bug, but can someone else confirm that I'm actually not being completely blind first? :)

---

### Post by akyriacou on 2010-05-03
It's under System -> Administration -> Users and Groups.  Click the Change button next to the username.  I'm having a problem though that I get an error on one of my machines saying that the configuration couldn't save and the chfn command won't work either.  Worked fine on my other 2 machines.

---

### Post by jerome1232 on 2010-05-03
I get an error the first time I try it, then the second time it works.


so if at first you don't succeed, click it more.

---

