---
title: ".: 6: Can't open /scripts/casper-functions"
date: 2010-08-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xenogia on 2010-08-18
Hi Guys,

Whenever I tried to do a sudo update-initramfs -u I get the following message. 

```

update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
.: 6: Can't open /scripts/casper-functions

```

I can't seem to find this casper-functions, someone help me as I can't update my kernel properly.

---

### Post by xenogia on 2010-08-19
No one knows? This is a real pain.

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-08-19
What is the current version of your kernel ->
```
uname -r
```

---

### Post by xenogia on 2010-08-19
Here it is for you :)

```

+ uname -r
2.6.32-24-generic

```

The thing is I was just doing this update to having to edit my plymouth to change the resolution.
So I entered it manually.

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-08-19
> **xenogia said:**
> ```

update-initramfs: Generating /boot/initrd.img-2.6.32-24-generic
```

> ```
+ uname -r
2.6.32-24-generic
```They are the same! You are trying to update what is already up to date!

---

### Post by xenogia on 2010-08-19
Hi Alpha,

But anything that needs to do an update-initramfs doesn't work properly though?

Like updating grub for example.

---

### Post by xenogia on 2010-08-19
Alrighty I resolved the problem.

*Drum roll*

The Canonical-Census package is the problem here.  I uninstalled it and resolved the problem.  Big bug if you ask me.

---

### Post by KongKNoob on 2010-09-06
Thanks, xenogia! Tried to pimp my Plymouth as well, same error, same fix. All is well.

---

### Post by xenogia on 2010-09-06
> **KongKNoob said:**
> Thanks, xenogia! Tried to pimp my Plymouth as well, same error, same fix. All is well.


Glad I could help, there was nothing on the internet regarding this problem.  I should get around to making a bug report of it.

---

### Post by givrix on 2010-09-25
Hurrrray to xenogia, you saved hours of my life I would have spent digging this stupid issue.

Why the hell did I install this package anyway ???

---

### Post by xenogia on 2010-09-26
Maybe it was meant more for 10.10 and not 10.04.

---

### Post by Blissfull on 2010-11-24
Nyet about 10.4, this breaks mkinitramfs on 10.10 as well, I'm really glad you posted your problem AND solution, I'm compiling my own kernel and I was stuck being unable to make my initrd... thanks bro

---

### Post by xenogia on 2010-11-24
No problems.  I'm just happy I was able to figure out the solution considering there is nothing on the internet about it.

---

### Post by yknott on 2010-11-30
similar issue here

did not have that package installed

figured i could install then purge it

doing so indicated 

dpkg: warning: while removing canonical-census, directory '/usr/share/initramfs-tools/scripts/casper-bottom' not empty so not removed.

ls -lh /usr/share/initramfs-tools/scripts/casper-bottom
total 32K
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 1.5K 2010-05-17 03:53 autologin.bkp
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root  22K 2010-05-17 03:53 kdmrc
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root  161 2010-05-17 23:58 kpersonalizer


this installation was from the kubuntu with kde3 remix, guess some of the leftovers could have been from that


casper is for the live cd (from read-only media); do not think any part of it belongs on an installed system

---

