---
title: "12.10 no preferences saved on shutdown or session end"
date: 2012-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by not1 on 2012-11-12
Even though I have used linux distros many times in the past I am perpetually a newbie when it comes to fixing anything. Anyway, I say that because this may be a simple permission problem but I don't know how to fix it.

Every time I reboot (my recently installed) lubuntu I lose a lot of settings I made in my session. Including:

Changing from UK to US keymap in lxkeymap.
Changing my screen resolution.
Changing the desktop icon order in PCmanFM.

Weirdly, stuff like changing desktop background *will* change. I tried to sudo into whatever settings I wanted to change (e.g. lxkeymap) but that didn't help anything. What do I have to do here?

---

### Post by not1 on 2012-11-12
I found a couple of bug reports and it seems these issues are not connected, rather they are isolated bugs for Monitor Settings and lxkeymap. I think Ill get a different file manager to help me out with the problem regarding icons.

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxkeymap/+bug/729880](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxkeymap/+bug/729880)

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxrandr/+bug/621689](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/lxrandr/+bug/621689)

---

### Post by gerowen on 2012-11-12
I've had a few similar bugs in 12.10 where I'll log in, and Firefox will have logged me out of all of my normal sites.  My bookmarks will remain intact and extensions/preferences are fine, but it will have signed me out of everything.  XChat will randomly forget all my usernames and prompt me to fill them in and select a server, but it will remember what server and rooms to auto-join.  It's not the end of the world, but it's a bit strange.

---

### Post by not1 on 2012-11-12
> **gerowen said:**
> I've had a few similar bugs in 12.10 where I'll log in, and Firefox will have logged me out of all of my normal sites.  My bookmarks will remain intact and extensions/preferences are fine, but it will have signed me out of everything.  XChat will randomly forget all my usernames and prompt me to fill them in and select a server, but it will remember what server and rooms to auto-join.  It's not the end of the world, but it's a bit strange.

Problem is, my keyboard layout would keep changing everytime I restarted - which is a bit annoying. A workaround in the link I posted helped though. Haven't come accross any problems with firefox yet :)

---

