---
title: "Auto mount NTFS Partition"
date: 2009-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hacker_at_linux on 2009-05-24
I was an Ubuntu 8.10 user till date. It used to auto mount all my ntfs drives as I booted in. Now I have Installed the new Jaunty but cannot fint the same feature in it. 
So which package is missing in my new Ubuntu.
Please tell me the name of the package I need to download

---

### Post by Bigtime_Scrub on 2009-05-24
Use a program in synaptic called "NTFS Configuration Tool". 

[http://ubuntu.bryanludvigsen.com/?p=30](http://ubuntu.bryanludvigsen.com/?p=30)

---

### Post by hacker_at_linux on 2009-05-24
NO man It is not working for me. It is only allowing me to check and uncheck "Enable write support for external devices"

But the option for internal support is not available

Now what to do??

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-05-24
> **hacker_at_linux said:**
> NO man It is not working for me. It is only allowing me to check and uncheck "Enable write support for external devices"

But the option for internal support is not available

Now what to do??

Are you sure your Windows disks are not mounted yet? Open up Nautilus and look in the left column. Do you see something there that resembles your Windows disks? Things like "...GB media" or maybe even the name of your Windows disks if you gave it a name like Data, or whatever.

---

### Post by hacker_at_linux on 2009-05-24
yeah the names are listed but not mounted I have to do it from terminal my self

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-05-24
> **hacker_at_linux said:**
> yeah the names are listed but not mounted I have to do it from terminal my self

What happens if you don't mount them, but simply open them by clicking on a name? Do you see the contents of the disk or does nothing happen?

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-05-24
Can you post the contents of ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` and if possible identify which ones you want mounted?

Can you also post the output of ```
cat /etc/fstab
```

---

### Post by hacker_at_linux on 2009-05-24
Nothing happens by simply clicking on them. It shows an error you don't hav privilege to do this operation.

then I mount it by terminal

---

### Post by hacker_at_linux on 2009-05-24
Here is the code for sudo fdisk -l
```
Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x31ed31ec

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        3824    30716248+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            3825        8654    38796975    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda3           10352       19457    73143945    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda4            8655       10351    13631152+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5            8655       10274    13012618+  83  Linux
/dev/sda6           10275       10351      618471   82  Linux swap / Solaris

Partition table entries are not in disk order

```
And here is the code for cat /etc/fstab
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7a4fb59d-daa5-444c-a094-cae2575041a6 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=7394ad96-234e-46e4-b3dc-5d61a68a7275 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0

```

In this I mounted sda1,2,3 which r the ntfs ones

---

### Post by SuperSonic4 on 2009-05-25
You may want to check if you have ntfs-3g installed: ```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-3g
```. Ntfs-3g makes a mockery of the old ntfs package imo

Let *disk-1*, *disk-2* and *disk-3* be sda1, sda2 and sda3 respectively. You can change these to whatever you like depending on what is on the disk. If I've put something in [COLOR="Red"]red[/COLOR] then you can change it to what you like but keep the names consistent


Create the folders in which to mount the disks: ```
cd /media && sudo mkdir [COLOR="Red"]disk-1 disk-2 disk-3[/COLOR]
```

Backup fstab as a precaution: ```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.backup
```

Open up /etc/fstab as root: ```
gksu gedit /etc/fstab
```

Add the following lines at the bottom (Put a tab between each section rather than a space except between 0 0 at the end): 
```
/dev/sda1 /media/[COLOR="Red"]disk-1[/COLOR] ntfs-3g defaults 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/[COLOR="Red"]disk-2[/COLOR] ntfs-3g defaults 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/[COLOR="Red"]disk-3[/COLOR] ntfs-3g defaults 0 0
```

Save and exit
Should you want to mount them immediately without reboot issue the command ```
sudo mount -a
``` which means mount all automatic drives

Should you need to restore your old fstab for any reason boot into recovery mode and from the root shell issue the following command: ```
mv /etc/fstab.backup /etc/fstab
``` and reboot

-------------

Explanation (info mostly taken from [http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Fstab](http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Fstab) ):

[LIST]
[*]/dev/sdaX is the drive to mount
[*]/media/[COLOR="Red"]disk-1[/COLOR] is the mountpoint of the drive
[*]ntfs-3g is the 'driver' used to mount ntfs drives
[*]defaults is equal to rw,suid,exec,auto,nouser
[*]0 0 means fsck won't check it.
[/list]

[list]
[*]rw is mount file system read-write
[*]suid allows users on a computer system to execute binary executables with temporarily elevated privileges in order to perform a specific task (ie use **sudo** on files in that drive)
[*]exec lets you execute binaries that are on that partition.
[*]auto - mount automatically at boot
[*]nouser - only root can mount (but it will be mounted at boot anyway and user has read/write)
[/LIST]

---

### Post by hacker_at_linux on 2009-05-25
Thanks Man It Works

---

### Post by SF_Mike on 2009-10-02
[SIZE=4]Huge thanks here also !!!
You pretty much saved my butt on this one.


[/SIZE]

---

### Post by CrunchBuntu on 2009-10-27
I just registered to add to the gratitude and praise heaping.

Thanks SuperSonic4.  :D

---

### Post by Dead1nside on 2009-10-31
Thank you for the informative instructions. It's whether or not we had to use a UUID and what the latter column's options meant that puzzled me.

In Fedora I had to create the folder under /media/ that the mount point would be before it'd work - I thought fstab might create it for me when it was mounting but apparently not.

---

