---
title: "Remove printing authentication"
date: 2014-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gordon99 on 2014-12-03
My O/S is Xubuntu and I use a network printer which is connected to a PC which uses Windows 7 O/S.
Whenever I print from Xubuntu  I am required to give the user name and password of the host. 
I read on a previous thread that one can stop the user/password requirement by using "gedit" or similar to edit the print.conf file. This involves (a) stopping cups (b) taking Root authorisation (c) inserting '#' in front of the 'AuthinfoRequired --------.' line (or deleting the line) and (d) restarting cups.  I find that, after doing all this, the print.conf file returns to its original state and I still have to provide the host user name & password when wanting to print.
Is there an alternative procedure that might work or maybe I am missing a vital step. Thanks for reading this.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-12-03
Where is this print.conf file?

I am running Xubuntu, admittedly 12.04 still, and I do not have any file by that name, though I do have a network printer, an HP Photosmart 6520.

I don't run windows either, so that fact may also be relevant.

However, as we do not have a root account in Ubuntu, you would probably need to open the file in question as root with ```
gksu gedit /path/to/print.conf
```, though you will also have to install **gksu** first to enable that.

---

### Post by gordon99 on 2014-12-03
My apologies. The correct file name is 'printers.conf'. It is found in /etc/cups/. I get root permissions with 'gksudo thunar' via "alt + f2" in order to edit 'printers.conf'.
My O/S is Xubuntu 14.04. The printer works fine but, as I indicated, I have to provide Authentication details each time. Not a big deal as I use the printer infrequently, but a minor irritant.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-12-04
OK, I do have that file but there is no  "AuthinfoRequired --------" line in it, so your problem may be related to that line in yours.

I can not, however, figure out why the file keeps reverting to the old version after you edit it.

How quickly does it revert; after a reboot, logging out and in again, or immediately after closing the edited file?

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-12-04
> **ajgreeny said:**
> I can not, however, figure out why the file keeps reverting to the old version after you edit it.
Note the first three lines of the file, especially line 3:```
# Printer configuration file for CUPS v1.7.2
# Written by cupsd
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE WHEN CUPSD IS RUNNING

```I suspect that if he first issues a "sudo service cupsd stop" before doing the edit, then a "sudo service cupsd start" after saving the edited file, that it will work as desired...

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-12-04
I assumed from the OP's first post that he had followed the instructions which are clearly shown as a) to d).

However, perhaps you are correct.
So, gordon99, do what you suggested you had done again, making sure you carry out the stop command for cups first.

---

### Post by gordon99 on 2014-12-04
I have gone through the procedure of stopping cups, deleting the offending line and re-starting cups etc about ten times. At each step, after deleting the line, I have checked to see if the line is still missing and it always is. This is whether or not I do a reboot. I have to get root permissions each time I want to open the 'printers.conf' file to edit it, or just to look in it, of course. However, I then go to print a file and the authentication requirement pops up. When I re-check the 'printers.conf' file, lo and behold the deleted line is back. So somehow, for some reason, it seems that the 'printers.conf' file  reverts when I open a file (in Apache Open Office) and select print. One small matter; I stop and re-start 'cups'. Is JKs 'cupsd' a typo or more significant?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-12-04
Yes, you need to stop cupsd as the info given by JK says.
Cupsd is the deamon that runs in the background that has to be stopped before editing that file.

Try again and better luck.this time.

---

### Post by gordon99 on 2014-12-05
Ok, so I have to stop cupsd (not cups) before editing printers.conf. To stop cups I have been using the command " sudo service cups stop". When I try "sudo service cupsd stop" I receive the reply "unrecognised service". Any clues please as to the correct command lines to temporarily stop & restart cupsd?

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-12-05
> **gordon99 said:**
> Any clues please as to the correct command lines to temporarily stop & restart cupsd?It looks as if the latest system changes have scrambled a few things, unfortunately. Here's my diagnostic run:```
jk@mehitabel:~$ service --status-all|grep cups
 [ ? ]  apport
 [ ? ]  console-setup
 [ + ]  [COLOR="#FF0000"]cups[/COLOR]
 [ + ]  cups-browsed
 [ ? ]  dns-clean
 [ ? ]  irqbalance
 [ ? ]  killprocs
 [ ? ]  kmod
 [ ? ]  lightdm
 [ ? ]  networking
 [ ? ]  ondemand
 [ ? ]  pppd-dns
 [ ? ]  rc.local
 [ ? ]  sendsigs
 [ ? ]  speech-dispatcher
 [ ? ]  umountfs
 [ ? ]  umountnfs.sh
 [ ? ]  umountroot
 [ ? ]  vboxautostart-service
jk@mehitabel:~$ service cups status
status: [COLOR="#FF0000"]Unknown job: cups[/COLOR]
jk@mehitabel:~$ service cupsd status
cupsd: unrecognized service
jk@mehitabel:~$ sudo service cupsd status
cupsd: unrecognized service
jk@mehitabel:~$ sudo service cups status
[COLOR="#FF0000"]cups start/running, process 3216[/COLOR]
jk@mehitabel:~$ ps ax|grep 3216
 3216 ?        Ss     0:00 /usr/sbin/[COLOR="#FF0000"]cupsd[/COLOR] -f
 8493 pts/4    S+     0:00 grep --color=auto 3216
jk@mehitabel:~$ 

```It appears that the service name is now "cups" without the "d" but the program itself still has the "d" to indicate that it's a daemon.

You can check to make sure it's stopped, using "sudo service cups status" (note the "unknown job" error in my attempt without using sudo, although I've gotten the status okay without sudo from other services).

It **may** be helpful for you to log out after saving the edited configuration file, without re-starting the CUPS service, and then check its status after logging back in. Some daemons copy their configuration data into RAM and don't re-load it later, although the stopping and starting **should** force a new read of the configuration file.

If all else fails, try booting up from a live CD or USB stick, then opening the hard-disk copy of /etc/cups and doing the edit on it when that specific copy of the CUPS daemon isn't running at all. This ought to prevent the automatic change-back you're getting. Of course, the other recommendations we've been giving you **ought** to work, also, so nothing is guaranteed (except that Murphy's Law will always find a way to frustrate us)...

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-12-05
Unrelated thought that just occurred to me. You said originally that this is a network printer. Are there other machines on the network that also use it? If there are, it's possible that it could be using the "printers.conf" file from one of the other machines, and not using the one you are editing at all.

I have my two printers, here, both connected to a second box on my little two-box LAN, and have run into this kind of thing several times. It depends on exactly how you are making the connection to the printer, and which boxes you have checked on the CUPS overview page concerning use of other printers on the network. We may all have been chasing this possum up the wrong tree...

---

### Post by gordon99 on 2014-12-05
Hello JK. Thank you for your time.  I have tried your first idea i.e, I deleted the line, saved the file, did an 0/S restart, went back into the file and noted it was still as I had amended it, looked at cups status and found it had re-started. I then went into the print routine and, once again, authentication was required. I then had another look into the printers.conf and was not surprised to find the deleted line was restored. So, again, it seems the act of calling for a print restored the file to its original state. If booting from a live CD / USB stick to make the amendment turns out to be the only solution I will probably live with the authentication irritant; for the time being anyway. Its about time legislators found time to repeal Murphy's law.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-12-05
Did a bit more delving in the CUPS help file, which eventually led me to the buttons on the right-hand side of the "admin" page of localhost:631 that allow you to "edit configuration file." In that file are two groups that begin "<Limit Send-Document" and are followed immediately by "Require user @OWNER @SYSTEM" (which means that a user must be in one of these two groups to send a document to CUPS). You might try adding your login name, separated by a space, to both of those latter lines after "@SYSTEM" and if I understand the help file correctly, this may grant you access without the password request.

EDIT: I didn't make it explicit originally, but these changes should be done from inside the CUPS admin page itself, not by editing anything externally! At localhost:631/admin, click the "Edit configuration file" button, make the changes, scroll to the bottom and click "Save," then see if it worked.

As always when changing a configuration file, best make a backup copy of it first so that you can restore the original settings if anything goes wrong.

I've not tested this idea, but it may solve the problem by forcing the cups daemon itself to make any needed changes.

Given the universal law of unintended consequences, I'm not sure that repealing Murphy's Law would actually be a Good Idea!

---

### Post by gordon99 on 2014-12-06
JK. Have just caught up with your last two replies. Your penultimate reply must have gone to page 2 of 2 which I had not opened before I sent my last reply, so I will now reply to your "unrelated thought" message. My set up is a Canon MG3100 printer which is wire connected to my wife's PC which runs on Windows 7. My laptop dual boots Xubuntu / Windows 7, but I try to use Xubuntu as much as possible. Thus it is, what I think is called,  a host/client arrangement with my wife's username and password being the required authentication when I print from Xubuntu.
I will now carefully read your "did a bit more delving" message and let you have a reply to that ASAP.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-12-06
> **gordon99 said:**
> Thus it is, what I think is called,  a host/client arrangement with my wife's username and password being the required authentication when I print from Xubuntu.This implies to me that you have the "connection type" set to see the printer as a foreign device, using either "ipp" or "http" to establish the connection. I think the username to add would be that of your wife, since it's the one the authentication dialog requires, but this may not be a part of CUPS at all -- it might be the Win7 machine verifying an unknown remote access attempt.

I don't use Windows 7 at all, and Windows 8/8.1 as little as possible (my wife's machine uses it so I have to maintain it for her, but all my own work is done in either Xubuntu or one of my Win XP/SP3 VMs that I run for those jobs that absolutely require Windows). Thus I'm not familiar at all with its heightened security measures.

You might also try creating an additional user in your Linux system, using your wife's username and password, then setting the printer up for that user also, and seeing if the authentication request still appears. I have my printers set up as foreign to this box, and never see an authentication request unless I'm attempting to modify a configuration; apparently the fact that I have the same username on both systems may be having something to do with it.

---

### Post by gordon99 on 2014-12-06
I'm afraid 'localhost:631' was outside my very restricted knowledge boundary. However, I found 'Limit-Send Document' followed a little later by 'OWNER%SYSTEM%' twice, as you indicated,  but in the 'cupsd.conf' file. I added my own login name after SYSTEM% at both positions, leaving a space,  and saved the amended file. I then rebooted and found the file had not reverted. I tried a print but authentication was still needed. I checked back to the 'cupsd.conf. file but it was still as I had amended. I therefore did a manual reversion to restore the file to its original state. I don't know about "ipp" or "http" but in Printer Properties - localhost  the Device URI is 'smb://WORKGROUP/wife's name-PC/Canon%20MG3100%20series%20Printer. I may be talking rubbish but I think this shows the printer as being in a Windows workgroup with a Samba connection. Therefore not ipp or http, but again , I am probably exceeding the limit of my knowledge. As an aside, I had a struggle getting the printer to perform at its correct speed when I first started printing from Xubuntu. However, with guidance from the forum I was able to correct this particular matter by installing Canon's own printer driver instead of the default driver.
If i can get my head around creating an additional user in linux as you suggest I will give it a go after I have tried putting my wife's user name after %SYSTEM. But even if that works the password will need to be accommodated I guess.

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-12-07
To add another user, via Xubuntu, open the "whisker" menu (it's in the top left corner on my system -- a blue circle with the silhouette of a mouse's head in white) and select "System" from the list at the right-hand side of its dialog. Near the bottom of the resulting dialog you'll find "Users and groups" which is the one to select. Click the "Add" button in its dialog, which will bring up an authentication request. Enter your own login password, and you'll get another new dialog for creating a new user. From there it's pretty simple, and ought not pose any risk to your system.

Incidentally, I've found it to be a good idea to have a second "sudo" user configured on my systems just as a standby. Several times, Murphy's Law has resulted in my main user becoming unable to log in -- and the standby user then allowed me to get into the system and repair my main user. Creating this user, though, is a bit more complicated. All the *buntu variants give "sudo" permission to the one user created at install time, but do NOT do this for additional users added later. It takes a bit of special action to get there. However that's for another thread and has little to do with solving your current problem.

However, you're connecting to the printer via Samba, and it's quite possible that the user name and password request is coming from Win7 rather than from CUPS. I've not used Samba since the days of Win98SE so cannot be much help with its configuration. Hopefully some of the other folk here can jump in and assist with this possibility!

---

