---
title: "Display problems with Intel Extreme Graphics 2 and Xorg"
date: 2005-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Napper on 2005-02-06
Hi everybody,

   First of thanks for this great distribution. I just installed Warty a week ago and love it. Made me realize how great Gnome really is, compared to the sluggish KDE. I now upgraded from Warty to Hoary and consequently from XFree to Xorg. Now, everything went beatifully, but my graphicscard is down to lovely 800x600 instead of the 1280x1024 that my Flatscreen wishes to have. I have an IBM THINKCENTRE A50 CEL 2.4 128MB 40GB XPH with what is described by the vendor as an Intel Extreme Graphics 2 card. I tried to reconfigure xorg by running 

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

but that didn't really get the monkey going. What can I do to see Ubuntu again its full glory again.

In hope for reply,

Napper

---

### Post by Napper on 2005-02-06
Okay, I think I fixed it by using the Vesa drivers instead of the regular i810 drivers.  =D>  On boot up I saw the following error message: 

"skipped unavailable built-in i810_tcp module" (or something like that) so that's why I thought, let's try good ol' Vesa instead. Let's hope perfomence won't suffer from that too much.

Two other things, one of which might be related: My Intell USB Optical Wheel mouse ain't wheeling no more. Any clues?

Before Hoary I had setup custom icons for many of my folders. Some of those icons where a bit larger but Gnome sized them to have the same size as the remainding icons. Now after my little upgrade these icons are still there but they are enormously large. How can I explain Gnome that those should be resized to standard icon size? (Does anybody understand what I am talking about? 8-[  (Best see screenshot)) 

Regards,

Napper

---

### Post by Napper on 2005-02-07
Hi, it's me again. Could somebody please help me? I changed my xserver back to Xfree again, since xorg with a vesa driver was to sluggish for my internal Intel Extreme Graphics 2 card (865g). Using the Xfree server again graphics where still sluggish but when I boot using the "recovery" Kernel option everythings works smoothely. Now my questions:

1) Should I try installing xorg after all, or wait until April?
1.1) If so, what do I need to do differently? Do I need to compile my kernel manually? Does xorg simply not support the i810 series?
2) How can I see what the recovery kernel does differently than the regular kernel? How do I implement these differences into the regular booting sequence?

Please help. I already spend two days on this without making a bit of progress.

In hope for reply,

Napper

---

### Post by monkey on 2005-03-03
I had the same problem with the same card at work. I have a 17" dell monitor at work and could not get a resolution better than 800 x 600. Took the computer home and reinstalled ubuntu while connected to my Apple 17 Studio Display Monitor. When reinstall was complete I got to the desktop and went to system config/screen resolution I had the option to use every resolution from 640 x 480 to 1600 x 1200. Took the computer back to work and can now go from  640 x 480 to 1600 x 1200 on the dell monitor. Im sure theres a better fix but this worked for me.

---

### Post by ubuntu_demon on 2005-04-01
He guys,

How's your videocard functioning now ? I'm thinking about getting this motherboard :

Asrock 775i65GV / Intel 865GV chipset / Integrated Intel Extreme Graphics 2 

see :
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=22880](http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=22880)

---

### Post by retomi on 2005-04-12
i solved with this xorg.config file   :smile: 
It's the config file of the RC release, and work fine for me.

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following commands:
#
#   cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.custom
#   sudo sh -c 'md5sum /etc/X11/xorg.conf >/var/lib/xfree86/xorg.conf.md5sum'
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
	FontPath	"unix/:7100"			# local font server
	# if the local font server has problems, we can fall back on these
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/CID"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath	"/usr/lib/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
	FontPath	"/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"bitmap"
	Load	"dbe"
	Load	"ddc"
	Load	"dri"
	Load	"extmod"
	Load	"freetype"
	Load	"glx"
	Load	"int10"
	Load	"record"
	Load	"type1"
	Load	"vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"keyboard"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"it"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Philips 170B"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-82
	VertRefresh	56-76
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation 82865G Integrated Graphics Device"
	Monitor		"Philips 170B"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		1
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		4
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		8
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		15
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		16
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode	0666
EndSection

---

