---
title: "15.10 Ubuntu Mate is much slower and jerky than 14.04 Mate ..."
date: 2015-12-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-04
Not sure what the problem is with 15.10 but it is significantly slower than my 14.04.
Tried upgrading to 15.10 but its slow performance is a show stopper for me.
I know that nVidia 3.04 131 is the proper driver for my nVidia 7300LE video card and
I use that driver in both 15.10 and 14.04.

Fortunately I have 14.04 in /dev/sda1 and 15.10 in /dev/sda4 and can come back when
I guess some performance bugs are worked out.  I did Google and there is a bug
report about slow performance with Intel video cards.  Bet its something common to
both Intel and nVidia.

Any hints about performance issues you know about 15.10????

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-12-04
*Thread moved to **General Help**.*

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2015-12-04
> **cwmoser said:**
> Not sure what the problem is with 15.10 but it is significantly slower than my 14.04.
<Snip>
Any hints about performance issues you know about 15.10????
Sorry to hear that, :o
I have used Mate since it became a Supported Flavor and for me it has gotten better, quicker, smother.
I will have to admit that a friend of mine has a video card in the same vintage of yours and also notices a little bog down or lag.
But for myself I have no plans to switch to any other DE. running Mate on Xenial and Trusty, and Arch. 
Kind Regards 
```
pacman -Q mate-desktopmate-desktop 1.12.0-1

```

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2015-12-04
Are you running compiz?  Have you tried marco?

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-04
> **v3.xx said:**
> Are you running compiz?  Have you tried marco?

I noted it was slow and jerky before I installed Compiz.

When I installed Compiz, it started acting quirky and froze my system - I reverted back
to the default desktop manager.

I will admit that I do not run Compiz with my 14.04 because it seemed to have random problems.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-05
Someone mentioned that my nVidia 7300LE Video card was old and not very good anyway.
I'm wondering if a higher performance video card would make a significant difference.
I already have 8GB RAM and a SSD ... but my CPU is the dual core AMD Athlon X2 6400+

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2015-12-05
I have the same CPU on a different tower, so I pulled the video card (Card: NVIDIA GF119 [GeForce GT 520]) Out and put it in the 6400 Tower, and it make's the world of difference.
I also have a Nvidia 7500GT with only 512mb of ram and it is ok for DE's like LXDE, XFCE.
But it dose not run Mate very well. It seems as a Video Chip with at least 1Gig of Ram is what is needed for Optimal Enjoyment.
Kind Regards
**EDIT: **If you are running the Nvidia Driver(304) you should uninstall that one first and install the newer driver.
If you upgrade your video card.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-15
Runrickus, you were spot on with your suggestion that my nVidia GeForce 7300 video card was the reason
I was having jerky performance.

I purchased off Ebay an nVidia GeForce 8800GTX card and now I have fast and smooth video
performance -- even with Compiz enabled it is smooth.

In addition, the problem I was having with Xorg and Lightdm hogging my CPU has gone away.

Thanks for the tip
(BTW, anyone looking to do what I did and purchase an 8800GTX video card, make note that 
this card needs those 6-pin power adapters - two of them.  My Power Supply did not have
those adaptors so I purchase a pair of 4-pin Molex to 6-pin PCIe adaptors to power this
video card.

---

### Post by QDR06VV9 on 2015-12-15
> **cwmoser said:**
> Runrickus, you were spot on with your suggestion that my nVidia GeForce 7300 video card was the issue
I was having with jerky performance.

I purchased of Ebay an nVidia GeForce 8800GTX card and now I have fast and smooth video
performance -- even with Compiz enabled it is smooth.

In addition, the problem I was having with Xorg and Lightdm hogging my CPU has gone away.

Thanks for the tip
(BTW, anyone looking to do what I did and purchase an 8800GTX video card, make note that 
this card needs those 6-pin power adapters - two of them.  My Power Supply did not have
those adaptors so I purchase a pair of 4-pin Molex to 6-pin PCIe adaptors.
That is great!!:D
Thanks for posting back. with your suggestions also.
Cheers and Kind Regards

---

### Post by v3.xx on 2015-12-15
Good to know.  I have ran mate on the 6800 series (256M vRAM) and currently run it on 128M (video ram) VM's.  Something about the 7300 series mate must not like or maybe a driver bug.

---

### Post by cwmoser on 2015-12-15
Yes, I had 14.04 in on partition and 15.10 in another.  I was so disappointed with the performance
of 15.10 Mate that I came very close to chucking it and fall back to my using my 14.04.
With the nVidia 8800GTX card, it made a dramatic difference.

The nVidia driver I used with the 7300 was 304.131, and for the 8800 I use 340.96.
From just the point numbers (.131 vs .96) it suggests that the 8800 is an older driver version.

---

### Post by Yawanathan_Israel on 2015-12-16
Hello,

Though you may be able to run a DE like mate, KDE or gnome with an older video card, You are just asking for headaches. 18 yrs of IT has taught me that the min requirements are never to be used. It's ok for a while, but it's always better
to go above it. Your video card should be 1gig ram min, Your system ram to run smoothly without issues, At least 8gigs, HD should be at least 7200 rpm. SSD are ALWAYS best, but not necessary.

Many may argue this, but as someone who has done this, I have very few issues with slowness or any other issues.  There is also the issues with various chipsets, and the power of the cpu.  I have found that Intel products seem to work
better than AMD. However, AMD works pretty good, but again, I go by the rule to max out memory, Use a discrete Video card with at least 1 gig of ram. Intel on-board video usually don't give so much headaches as Nvidia or AMD. However, if your on-board video shares memory, Then you definitely have to make sure to have more than 4gigs, as some of the ram goes to increase the video.

Being that I do custom built computers and buy quality parts, This also keeps me from having a lot of headaches and usually the TCO is a lot cheaper as the upgrades can be reduced to just a cpu or memory.

Thanks
Yawanathan

---

