---
title: "10.10 won't boot (graphics problem)"
date: 2010-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by awc_ on 2010-12-03
as of the latest kernel update/patch my computer boots into tty1 Ctrl+Alt+F7 yields no results. loging in under tty1 and they trying to startx results in a long error: 
Failed to load module "nvidia" (.... -specific error, 0)
Fatal server error: no screen found.

booting into the older kernel (.22) works just fine. 

To make matters worse, my GTX 460 has just burned out (1.5 months old) and I am now borrowing a friends ATI delphinus 2 GPU. With it I can boot just fine into the horrid win7, but ubuntu under either kernel version is not successful. 

ohh, btw, with the 460 I was using the proprietary CUDA drivers for folding via wine

---

### Post by awc_ on 2010-12-03
to make matters worse, this graphics card refuses to allow me to see the captcha thingy to log onto the freenode ubuntu IRC so I can't use that resource on either win7 or the live cd - on that note, the graphics seem to work fine via the live CD minus the above, so i believe all I need to do is uninstall the nvidia drivers via the live cd. might someone be able to help me do that/tell me how?

I'll be going back to the store where I bought my GPU, hopefully their RMA dept will be able to help me out. If nothing else, to loan me a nvidia GPU until a replacement arrives.

edit: i tried to connect via numerous other IRC clients xchat/chatzilla etc, but it appears that my schools network refuses to allow IRC programs to connect to the net. It's never been a real problem until today, so I haven't mentioned it to them.

---

### Post by AvoidedRider on 2011-03-03
I was having this exact same problem. Computer wanted to restart after an update and when I restarted I ended up at a terminal screen. If I tried ```
sudo gdm start
``` I got something along the lines of > Failed to acquire org.gnome.DisplayManager could not acquire name; Bailing out When I tried to start it under the recovery mode graphics failsafe mode it refused to start at first. I had to tell it to reconfigure the graphics. So after it finished starting I restarted it normally. Got to my desktop and it told me that my graphics card was not supported for folding. So I am guessing that somehow my graphics driver got trashed. So I went back to the black list and disabled my items that I had black listed because I read somewhere some theory that maybe the folding at home could use the opengl and I have been curious for a while seemed like a cool thing to try.  Now it doesn't matter what I do recovery mode or normal starts result in black screen. Last message I see is sometimes something about a flat panel and there is another message that looks like gibberish. Hope this helps someone find a solution.

---

### Post by bsntech on 2011-03-03
See if you can reconfigure your xorg by doing the following:

sudo dpgk-reconfigure xserver-xorg

Then, follow that up by doing this:

sudo X -configure

The last bit will make an xorg.conf.new file in your home directory.  Copy that over the xorg.conf file in the /etc/X11 folder and see if that gets you going.

Brian S.
[http://www.bsntech.com]("http://www.bsntech.com")

---

### Post by AvoidedRider on 2011-03-04
I got my computer out of its refusal to use the monitor by removing its graphics card and making it use the on-board graphics of the motherboard and fail-safe options from the recovery mode. Oh and letting the fail safe mode reconfigure the graphics when it didn't find a usable configuration for fail-safe. Unfortunately, now it is stuck with the basic graphics card driver and nothing I have tried has worked so far.  I tried your commands in a terminal on my desktop. 
> c@r:~$ sudo dpgk-reconfigure xserver-xorg
sudo: dpgk-reconfigure: command not found
c@r:~$ sudo X -configure

Fatal server error:
Server is already active for display 0
    If this server is no longer running, remove /tmp/.X0-lock
    and start again.


Please consult the The X.Org Foundation support 
     at [http://wiki.x.org](http://wiki.x.org)
 for help. 

 ddxSigGiveUp: Closing log
I have been trying to use this [HowTo]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1625433&highlight=cuda+10.10") to reinstall my graphics driver that I had been using but when I run the installer it says that it is already installed and asks if I want to remove it. If I tell it go for it it says that it installed perfectly but I have no change still the default driver. Same reaction with every other driver I tried to install. I tried to get into nvidia-settings. it responds > You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. of course I do what it says it creates a config file and a back up and nothing changes.

---

