---
title: "10.10 Graphics Card Problems on Gateway LT3103u"
date: 2011-04-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Stop Being Such a TOONA on 2011-04-03
I've done a lot of research and found a number of threads discussing this exact issue but so far I haven't been able to get anything I've tried to work.  

I'm using a Gateway LT3103u running a dual boot of Win 7 and Ubuntu 10.10 (separate partitions) and ever since I've started using Ubuntu (last October) I've had persistent graphic card problems.  
My graphics card is the ATI Radeon X1270. 

Right now I can't use any visual effects because of I do the screen spazzes out and becomes unusable.  This isn't a big deal for me since I don't use them but I figured it's relevant to the problem.

Even with visual effects off I still have problems and at times parts of the menu will stay on the screen in a little box which covers any windows that open beneath it.  The only way to get rid of it is to turn visual effects on so the screen resets then hit use previous settings. 
[COLOR="Red"][Link to Picture]("http://img849.imageshack.us/i/screenshotii.png/")[/COLOR]

Any ideas?  What driver should I be using?  Any settings I should change to help fix the problem?  

Thanks!

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2011-04-03
Stop Being Such a TOONA

> Any ideas?
Sorry but no.
 
I do have a ATI Radeon X1650 card same generation as yours and have it on Ubuntu 10.04,10.10, on same machine, and all work very well, with compositor(compiz) and 3D.
> What driver should I be using?
The open source radeon driver that is installed by default.

I would try natty on your laptop, after its released.


Sharky

---

