---
title: "2.6.35-23 random system freeze/crash"
date: 2010-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2010-11-29
Hi, 

I seem to be having a problem on the new Kernel (2.6.35-23) with the system randomly freezing. 

I have installed a number of things in recent days leading up to this problem, but when i boot with the old kernel i don't seem to have any issues. From this i am guessing its the new kernel. 

The freezing seems (although i am not sure) to be worse when Rhythmbox is running. When it happens everything freezes, the playing song skips, replaying the same one second of music over and over. All the hotkeys stop and the mouse cursor stops responding. 

I have seen people talking about system logs to look at system crashes but i don't know how to show those. I also doubt my ability to interpret them. 

if anyone knows what the problem is, or has any idea how i might look in the logs to see what's going on that would be great.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Shark_AtK12 on 2010-11-29
I would go back to the old kernel(-22) if it works fine for you. I can't even boot with 2.6.35-23. My screen flashes a couple times and I get sent to a text login. I would just wait for a newer one to come out.

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2010-11-29
That works, so will do.

Thanks.

---

### Post by tkelito on 2010-12-02
I am also having issues with the 2.6.35-23 kernel.  Apps are freezing and even browsing folders becomes unresponsive.  Rolling back and using the 22 kernel works perfectly.  So I will continue with those, there is definitely a problem though with this update.

---

### Post by barkhat on 2010-12-15
> **tkelito said:**
> I am also having issues with the 2.6.35-23 kernel.  Apps are freezing and even browsing folders becomes unresponsive.  Rolling back and using the 22 kernel works perfectly.  So I will continue with those, there is definitely a problem though with this update.

This happens to me, too, using kernel 2.6.35-24.  How does one roll back to another kernel?

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2010-12-15
At the grub screen you should see a number of options listing the different kernels. Just use the up and down arrows to move to the older kernel. Then hit enter.
- this goes for a dual boot system. If you just have Ubuntu, i am not sure if you'll see the GRUB screen but i would imagine so. 

If you want to set the system to boot automatically from an older kernel then follow the discussion on this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1633792](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1633792)

---

### Post by barkhat on 2010-12-16
> **MorrisseyJ said:**
> At the grub screen you should see a number of options listing the different kernels. Just use the up and down arrows to move to the older kernel. Then hit enter.
- this goes for a dual boot system. If you just have Ubuntu, i am not sure if you'll see the GRUB screen but i would imagine so. 

If you want to set the system to boot automatically from an older kernel then follow the discussion on this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1633792](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1633792)

Thanks Morrissey. I'll check out the link and try what you've suggested.

---

### Post by Baboontu on 2010-12-26
I had enough of these crashes - back to windows for now

---

### Post by rykel on 2011-02-17
I am also getting solid system freezes almost every boot now... my mouse cursor would stay "stuck" at the right side of my screen, and flash furiously.

Nothing except a hard Power Off or Alt-SysReq+REISUB can solve the problem.

At the rate I am doing these unhealthy reboots, I am afraid my hard disk may DIE!!

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2011-02-17
@rykel:

Is this on all kernels? Does -22 not work for you?

@Everyone else:

Has anyone on here been able to get a log report which registers the crashes. I am asking in the hope of getting some form of bug report (see this thread: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1683195](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1683195))

It would be really useful to get some idea, at least in some instances, of what is causing these crashes.

---

### Post by rykel on 2011-02-18
@MorrisseyJ - I am now trying out out -22, but not extensively enough to know if it will also crash yet... but I confirm that the random lock-up occurs with -23, -24 and -25!

Update 19 Feb 2011 - I just got the same freeze with -22. Frustrating! Now I disabled Compiz to see if it deals with the problem.

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2011-02-19
@rykel:

That is frustrating. Let us know how it goes with compiz disabled. If you get something registering in the logs it would be great to see it.

---

### Post by rykel on 2011-02-21
@MorissayJ: How do I enable and where do I retrieve the logs?

I totally purged Compiz and reinstalled with ubuntu-desktop, and so far, WITHOUT Compiz, I do not have the lock ups. Will revert back here very soon!

Thanks.

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2011-02-22
Glad to hear that the system is usable, albeit without compiz.

To check the logs you'll need to go System --> Administration --> Log File Viewer

When you next have a crash, check the time. Then reboot and go through the logs to see what, if anything, happened at the time of the crash. If anything correlates, we should be able to get an idea of the conflict that is causing the crash(es).

While I am not sure where to look in the logs (which it can take a while to go through) 'syslog' might be a good place to start.

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2011-03-14
I am now having the same problem with 2.6.35-27. All the kernels, other than -22, seem to cause my system to freeze. They all seem to cause a crash about 4 minutes after the last record in the logs. 

If anyone has any idea what is causing this or what i can do about it, it would be great if you could let me know. 

With all this I am fairly worried about the update to Natty.

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2011-03-29
Same issue with 2.6.35-28. Still nothing that i can see in the logs.

If anyone can help me work out what the conflict is, i would very much appreciate it.

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2011-04-15
Added the updates for the 2.6.35-28-generic-pae kernel this morning and now appear to be having no problems. 

Will mark this thread as "solved" but if anyone knows what was contained in the kernel updates and has resolved the conflict that i was experiencing, it'd be good to know.

---

### Post by MorrisseyJ on 2011-04-16
No, freezes persist. Now they happen within 5 minutes of booting to the -28 kernel.

Back to -22.

If anyone has any ideas, they'd be welcome.

---

