---
title: "10.04: Repairing python-minimal (package manager issue)"
date: 2011-01-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by darkred.dave on 2011-01-13
The Debian aptitude package manager on my 10.04 installation is  now unusable. Any attempt to install results in a hanging process after the following lines of output:
```

Preparing to replace python-minimal 2.6.5-0ubuntu1 (using .../python-minimal_2.6.5-0ubuntu1_all.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement python-minimal ...

```

Attempts to reinstall python-minimal fail similarly. I'm cautious against entirely removing python-minimal and doing a fresh install since roughly 1.5GB worth of packages and all python support depend on it. As a note, Python2.6 (default) appears completely functional so the installation seems untouched.

Here is the entry for python-minimal in my /var/lib/dpkg/status file:
```
Package: python-minimal
Essential: yes
Status: install reinstreq half-installed
Priority: required
Section: python
Installed-Size: 120
Maintainer: Ubuntu Developers <ubuntu-devel-discuss@lists.ubuntu.com>
Architecture: all
Source: python-defaults
Version: 2.6.5-0ubuntu1
Config-Version: 2.6.5-0ubuntu1
Replaces: python (<= 2.4-1)
Depends: python2.6-minimal (>= 2.6.5), dpkg (>= 1.13.20)
Recommends: python
...

```
(The remainder of the entry doesn't appear to be relevant to my problem)

Any suggestions? Any help is very much appreciated.

More Backstory: I'm attempting to worth with the Google App Engine SDK on 10.04. The sdk requires python2.5 so I attempted to follow the instructions discussed here [http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1468661.html](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-1468661.html) by poster junapp. The installation would hang while unpacking python-minimal. 
I believe there is a conflict between the python-minimal included in 10.04 and a python-minimal package for the python2.5 install. Not being aware of the conflict, I attempted to remove files relating to the python-minimal package in the /var/lib/dpkg/info folder. Attempts to restore these files with copies from other installations have proved fruitless.

---

