---
title: "(13.04) Renaming mounted partitions, deleting unwanted HP_TOOLS"
date: 2013-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by anpalcactus on 2013-05-22
Hey!
I have windows 8 installed on c:\ , Ubuntu 13.04 on another partition and h:\ as file storage.
So here's the problem: during the installation, I mounted two partitions ( c:\ to /media/c/ and h:\ to /media/h/ ) and now it looks like this:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]242890[/ATTACH]
but when I'm using ```
gksu nautilus
```, it looks this way:
[ATTACH=CONFIG]242891[/ATTACH]


I'd like to have "plain" nautilus with drives named "c" and "h", not "new volume" and "322 gb drive" although without losing all them places links!
Any ideas?

/EDIT:
Done with the Labeling, now trying to resolve the HP_TOOLS mounting!
Changed pics to thumbnails (?)

---

### Post by coldraven on 2013-05-22
How about labeling the volumes? You could call them WINROOT AND WINDATA for example.
Run gparted, right click on the volume and select LABEL.
If the options are greyed out you may need to unmount them first.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-05-22
I suggest that you use ***labels***.

You can give suitable labels or human readable names to your partitions, for example

Ubuntu
Home
Windows
Data

There are several tools to add or edit labels. gparted is a suitable tool. See more details at this link

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RenameUSBDrive](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RenameUSBDrive)

When you have labels, the automount in the file browser will use the labels. This is the case in Ubuntu as well as in Windows and it will be easy to identify the partitions.

---

### Post by anpalcactus on 2013-05-22
Thanks! 
Label worked perfectly fine (though, had to unmount them first, as it'd been mentioned).
But for now , the new question :
is there the way to let HP_TOOLS partition "disappear" from Nautilus (without deleting the partition itself, cause it's being used by my laptop)?

---

### Post by galgalesh on 2013-05-22
add the noauto command to the line for the HP_TOOLS partition in /etc/fstab. More information here: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/165702/how-can-i-prevent-ubuntu-from-mounting-particular-partitions-deivices](http://askubuntu.com/questions/165702/how-can-i-prevent-ubuntu-from-mounting-particular-partitions-deivices)

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-05-22
*Thread moved to **General Help**.*

***Reason***: Nothing to do with Desktop Environments.

Message to all: Please refrain from posting large images in the body of your post. Instead, click 'Go Advanced' and use the paperclip icon to attach them. Thanks. 

@ anpalcactus: You can attach the pics yourself or I can check back later and do it and edit the post accordingly.

---

### Post by Rebelli0us on 2013-05-22
Just give them volume labels and/or edit "/etc/fstab" to look like  UUID=xxxxxx  /media/Drive-C  or NTFS-drive-H or whatever you prefer.    HP_TOOLS will not auto-mount unless you add it to fstab.

---

### Post by anpalcactus on 2013-05-22
WELL, finally [SOLVED]! :)
Actually the /etc/fstab method didn't work because there WASN'T an entry for this HP_TOOLS partition (there were mentioned above partitions C, H, swap and ext4). So I unmounted HP_TOOLS using ```
gksu nautilus
``` and then just GParted -> Right click on the volume -> Manage flags (there was "lba" checked) -> checked "Hidden". Then this unwanted HP_TOOLS guy immediately disappeared from my nautilus devices!

Thank you very much for helpful income!

---

