---
title: ".diff driver help please"
date: 2008-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wildbillkelso on 2008-11-29
Hi All.

I have a driver for a device in a .diff format. When I click on it it opens up a load of text but how do I execute the file please?

Thanks and best regards.

Tim

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-11-29
A diff format? Usually that means that the file is a patch(though a patch is usually denoted by .patch) for the main driver source or perhaps for the kernel or any other files needed by the driver. What driver are you trying to install and what are the contents in the .diff file?

---

### Post by wildbillkelso on 2008-11-29
Hi.

It is a driver for trackir a head tracking device like a webcam. I got the file from [http://www.thewretched.org/trackir.html](http://www.thewretched.org/trackir.html) but I am a noob to Linux and not sure what I have to do with it. Any help or advice you can offer would be greatly appretiated.

Many thanks.

Tim

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-11-29
Unfortunately, you may not be able to use the driver at all unless there have been updates or someone has taken the time to write a driver for the 2.6 kernel series.

The problem is that the patch and probably the driver, have been written for kernel 2.4.3 specifically. The current kernel in use with Ubuntu(8.10 that is) is 2.6.27, which is very much different from 2.4.3. So in my opinion, it is worthless trying to get the driver to work on Linux unless the vendor has released a new version for the current kernel versions, or unless someone writes a driver for the hardware and it is compatible with current kernels.

Note:- The 2.4 kernel series is not dead, however, I don't see a lot of distributions using that kernel.

---

### Post by wildbillkelso on 2008-11-29
Ok that's a shame. I will e-mail the guy and see if there are any updates at all. Thank you for taking the time to look into it for me though, and for the very quick response and explanation.

All the best.

Tim

---

