---
title: "Recovering permission for data, restoring system after crash"
date: 2011-10-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by spacetimecowboy on 2011-10-01
Hi there,

Had to boot 9.10 from USB after 10.04 crashed my Acer Aspire One netbook and would not boot.

Now I can access my Filesystem but have no ability to copy or write as I am now "not the owner" and dont have permission.

How can I regain control of my filesystem?

Ideally, I would like to fully restore my old system as I have all the data intact, but will probably stay with 9.10 for now.

Many thanks.

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2011-10-01
> **spacetimecowboy said:**
> Ideally, I would like to fully restore my old system as I have all the data intact, but will probably stay with 9.10 for now.
9.10 reached end of support in April and will no longer get any updates.

> 10.04 crashed my Acer Aspire One netbook
This is a little vague. Are you sure your HDD is okay and your file system is still intact?

> have no ability to copy or write as I am now "not the owner" and dont have permission.
What exactly are you trying to copy and how? If you're using Nautilus (File Manager), you probably should run it as root: press Alt+F2 and type "gksudo nautilus". With this you should be able to copy everything.

---

### Post by spacetimecowboy on 2011-10-01
Thanks prodigy_

I will go back to a more recent version when possible, but 9.10 is the only thing I could get to boot from USB on my machine with it's current problems.

Ok so there is potentially a corruption somewhere in my filesystem as I had major boot trouble as recorded on this thread...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11302200#post11302200](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11302200#post11302200))
... So I would be happy with a reinstall and access to the files on my HD.

The files I want to copy and backup now that I can get to them are all my personal files, documents, music, photos e.t.c but they are denying me permission or the right to adjust permissions as I am guessing that they are the property of my user that is now not appearing on this current running of Ubuntu on my machine (still running off USB, no install yet). 

I tried running it as root as you suggested (i.e. press Alt+F2 and type "gksudo nautilus") but the permissions were still in place and prevented me from copying anything.

Appreciate your advice,

Thanks

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2011-10-01
It doesn't look like a permission issue to me. Even if it says "Permission denied" you should keep in mind that error messages can be misleading sometimes.

Personally, I'd start with checking if HDD is alright because running something like fsck on faulty hardware isn't a good idea. Every major HDD vendor provides tools for checking their HDDs. (Sorry, I have no clue which ones Acer uses in their netbooks but you can probably find out if you'll run **sudo lshw** command.) The next step is to boot from a LiveCD and (assuming ext filesystem which is the default one) to run fsck on your 10.04 Linux partitions.

After that you'll probably be able to copy/backup your data (assuming it's still intact).

---

### Post by spacetimecowboy on 2011-10-01
OK thanks,

The properties menu is listing the permission issue as well but I take on board your point.

I am a bit out of my depth as usual with this stuff. I don't know if I wold be able to understand any information generated by a diagnostic tool.

Running **"sudo lshw**" in terminal returns "**PCI (sysfs)**"

Any idea what free tool would be useful to examine the HDD, copy the HDD or even backup these files so that I can risk a wipe and reinstall to see if it will run 10.04 again?
Thanks again.

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2011-10-01
> **spacetimecowboy said:**
> Running **"sudo lshw**" in terminal returns "**PCI (sysfs)**"
Err. Actually it's supposed to output a long list of hardware with detailed descriptions. "PCI (sysfs)" is a message about what it's trying to examine at the moment. If it's getting stuck at this point, something is definitely wrong.

How did you install Ubuntu? Since it's a netbook I guess it doesn't have a CD drive, but do you have any kind of Live media you can boot from?

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2011-10-01
> **spacetimecowboy said:**
> Any idea what free tool would be useful to examine the HDD, copy the HDD or even backup these files so that I can risk a wipe and reinstall to see if it will run 10.04 again?
Thanks again.
[Ultimate Boot CD](http://www.ultimatebootcd.com/) comes with a lot of diagnostic tools. They also have a [HOWTO](http://www.ultimatebootcd.com/customize.html) about making a bootable USB stick from it.

---

