---
title: "sniff kernel messages to millisecond level"
date: 2007-08-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by m_atif on 2007-08-31
Hi
I wanted to see the messages generated by any printk down to milliseconds level. e.g. the messages in /var/log/kern.log are formated with date and time 
[Aug 31 17:25:29]. xxxxxx xxxxx yyy zzzz

Is there any way (without compiling) these messages in milliseconds like 
[Aug 31 17:25:29.25]. xxxxxx xxxxx yyy zzzz

or simply any other way that gives me these messages to milliseconds, like some profiling tool?

Seeking any help/tip.

regards

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-09-01
Hi there,

There are lots of system loggers around, all of which offer slightly different features, and work in slightly different ways. Most of the time, when I want to do anything special with system logs, I use syslog-ng ... it's quite flexible & feature rich. I'm not quite sure if Ubuntu's default loggers can produce millisecond-accurate timings (their man pages or a quick web search will tell you), but if they can't, you may have better luck with syslog-ng.

[SIZE=1]One important question though, is *why* you need such accurate timestamps. If, for instance, you are hoping to associate events on two computers that take place at precisely the same moment, or something like that, then you *may* wind up with unexpected results. If, on the other hand, you are simply looking for a way of deciding the order in which things happened (ie the actual values of the timestamps make no difference to you), then you might be okay. You see, afaik if two kernel events trigger two log messages, and your computer is under load at the time, I'm not 100% confident that (a) the messages would always be logged in the right order, and (b) that the delay between "seeing" and logging messages would never exceed several milliseconds.
[/SIZE]
^^ Just something to keep in the back of your mind, depending on how you want to use the logged timestamps.

---

