---
title: "7.10 randomly freezing requiring hard shut down, caps and scroll lock flash"
date: 2008-04-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rory096 on 2008-04-13
My Gutsy running on a Dell Inspiron E1505 has been freezing quite often (usually at least once a day, sometimes every half hour or so). The caps and scroll lock keys flash, and it doesn't respond to anything except a forced shutdown. It seems to happen more often when the network usage is high (ie when a torrent is running). The computer and hard drive both run very hot for no apparent reason, which may or may not be related.

I've tried booting with the noapic command and I've uninstalled Network Manager based on other reports of similar problems I've seen, but neither has worked.

---

### Post by Sidewinder1 on 2008-04-13
Have you cleaned out all of the dust recently? Fans running per spec? Or perhaps it's another hardware issue? Do you get any type of error messages on freeze/crash or on reboot? If so please post them.

---

### Post by rory096 on 2008-04-13
> **Sidewinder1 said:**
> Have you cleaned out all of the dust recently? Fans running per spec? Or perhaps it's another hardware issue? Do you get any type of error messages on freeze/crash or on reboot? If so please post them.

I've attempted to clean as much dust as I can (it's a laptop so it's somewhat difficult without taking it completely apart and though there does seem to be an unusually high amount of dust, cleaning as much as I could didn't seem to really have an impact, so I haven't cleaned it thoroughly). The fan seems to be running fine, and I can't think of anything else that would cause this. I don't get any error messages, the screen just freezes and the lights flash.

---

### Post by rory096 on 2008-04-13
Taking off the lid's hinge cover seems to make it last longer between freezes, which leads me to believe it is the heat that's causing this.

---

### Post by Linux_Man on 2008-04-13
Now, Im not sure about this, but it seems like a kernel panic. 

 How to Troubleshoot a Hard Kernel Panic
Hard Panics – Symptoms:

   1. Machine is completely locked up and unusable.
   2. Num Lock / Caps Lock / Scroll Lock keys usually blink.
   3. If in console mode, dump is displayed on monitor (including the phrase “Aieee!”).
   4. Similar to Windows Blue Screen.


according to this [http://rhcelinuxguide.wordpress.com/2006/06/01/linux-kernel-panic-prevent-cardiac-arrest/](http://rhcelinuxguide.wordpress.com/2006/06/01/linux-kernel-panic-prevent-cardiac-arrest/) it seems like its a kernel panic.

---

### Post by rory096 on 2008-04-13
> **Linux_Man said:**
> Now, Im not sure about this, but it seems like a kernel panic. 

 How to Troubleshoot a Hard Kernel Panic
Hard Panics – Symptoms:

   1. Machine is completely locked up and unusable.
   2. Num Lock / Caps Lock / Scroll Lock keys usually blink.
   3. If in console mode, dump is displayed on monitor (including the phrase “Aieee!”).
   4. Similar to Windows Blue Screen.


according to this [http://rhcelinuxguide.wordpress.com/2006/06/01/linux-kernel-panic-prevent-cardiac-arrest/](http://rhcelinuxguide.wordpress.com/2006/06/01/linux-kernel-panic-prevent-cardiac-arrest/) it seems like its a kernel panic.
Yep, that sounds like what's happening to me, though my num lock key doesn't blink.

---

### Post by jrgns on 2008-04-14
I get the same thing.

I've got an updated gutsy, running on a 3 month old machine...

Only the Caps and Scroll Lock LED's flash.

Nothing in /var/log/messages or /var/log/syslog

J

---

### Post by rory096 on 2008-04-14
It seems to be getting worse- it's now freezing within a couple minutes of starting up if a torrent is running, but not if there isn't much network activity.

---

### Post by jimbofluffy on 2008-04-25
This was happening to me with 7.10 as well. I just installed 8.04 and booted for the first time.  After being amazed that my wireless card worked without configuring (the first time ever for any Linux distro I have tried) it froze up with caps and scroll lights blinking when I opened two tabs in Firefox.

---

### Post by Xzenome on 2008-04-28
I'm having the same issue on 8.04. Caps and Scroll lock flash when it does it. Any ideas?

---

### Post by jimbofluffy on 2008-04-29
> **Xzenome said:**
> I'm having the same issue on 8.04. Caps and Scroll lock flash when it does it. Any ideas?

What wireless card are you using?  Mine is a Linksys, I cannot remember what model and that machine is not in front of me right now though it has an AMD XP processor.  I have had trouble getting this card to work with Linux distros even with ndiswrapper in the past.  I got it to work with FC8 with ndiswrapper, but the whole distro seemed buggy afterwards.  I have a suspicion that it has something to do with the motherboard/wireless card combo, but honestly it could be anything.  Sorry that I don't have a good answer I was hoping I would find one myself, but the forum seems to be a little silent on this issue.

---

### Post by JoshuaJamZ on 2008-04-29
This has been happening to me also... and about once a day now. Everything was fine up until a few days ago... and I also started thinking perhaps it was a heat issue, but this comp seems to stay fairly cool... have a new fan on the CPU... Trying to think of what, software related might be causing issues, though, I sat here and tried to think of what changes I have made recently... and the one that I thought of was installing the flash plugin using nspluginwrapper (how I stumbled on this thread). The problem seems to occur when I have many apps running, but always is firefox, with multiple tabs... lots of flash ads, etc. Prior to this, I did not even have flash installed and only used opera for the occasional need to view flash, but have been working on a website recently, which I needed flash in firefox for.. so, installed it.

Wondering if anyone else has been having problems such as this and thinks it might point to firefox, nspluginwrapper and flash?

If so, what alternative for flash do I have, besides nspluginwrapper?

BTW, this is Gutsy amd64

---

### Post by jimbofluffy on 2008-04-30
I also have the same trouble when I try to download packages with the package tool, so at least the problem I am having is not just a Firefox issue.  Can you download other packages?

---

### Post by JoshuaJamZ on 2008-04-30
Making preparations yesterday to do a fresh install (going from 7.10 to 8.04), I was backing some vitals... noticed in my home folder .thumbnails .. had not seen it before... just trying to open this folder with many thousands of thumbnails in it caused the system to do the same thing... this was without anything else running. HD light was on constantly. I deleted the entire folder, but really have no clue on this. Perhaps too much in memory? Memory not being freed properly for some reason? Slow HD access? I successfully installed 8.04 and got most everything reinstalled now, including flash on firefox 3 BETA 5... all seems fine so far, but if I experience the same issue, I'll be jumping back to this thread.

---

### Post by jimbofluffy on 2008-04-30
I will try checking out the folder myself, thanks.

---

### Post by coheed on 2008-05-01
Fresh install of 8.04 on a Dell Inspiron yesterday and mine is doing this too. Was fine all day yesterday, left my comp on while I slept last night, and woke up to it frozen today. Rebooted, used it for a little bit, and the last two times I started it up as soon as the desktop loaded it froze with the caps/scroll lights flashing...

Bummer, as this is my first linux experience, I hope it isn't ruined!

---

### Post by Jitterbug on 2008-05-09
I was running Ubuntu 7.04, 7.10 (studio) and recently installed 8.04 and in each instance my system would randomly lock up/freeze, sometimes several times a day. I don't remember anything about the caps or scroll flashing and it's rare that my mouse works after such a lock up. It seemed to happen when ktorrent was running, but I've had it off for some time now and the lock ups still occur. Over the course of changing my OS I've upgraded my processor, added RAM and most recently replaced the OS hard drive (my data is on another). I'm running envy for the nvidia 8800GTS driver and I'm at a total loss. At first I thought it was because of the system going into standby, but lately it has been locking up while I'm using it, which is starting to worry me. It hasn't affected my data, yet, but I feel it can only be a matter of time before it starts to take its toll.

If anyone has any words of wisdom I would greatly appreciate them. Thank you.

---

### Post by jimbofluffy on 2008-05-13
I am pretty sure that the driver that comes with Ubuntu does not work for my wireless card.

1.  I never have the problem when I am using a wired connection.

2. I installed Xubuntu 8.04 on an old Dell pIII 450mhz and added the same card (Linksys WMP54G) I had been using with Ubuntu 8.04 on an Emachine with an AMD XP 2000+ which is something like 1.4Ghz.  I got the same result with Xubuntu as with Ubuntu.  I opened two or three tabs on Firefox, it froze and the lights blinked.  However, I did notice a red triangle in the upper right corner of the screen, which I of course couldn't click on.

 I had originally thought it was a issue with the wireless card/motherboard combo since I had problems with the card in XP SP2 on the Emachine, well of course that is not the case.  I also tried the card on another Dell pIII 866mhz with XP SP2 and it worked fined, so apparently it is not just a bad card.

I ordered a different brand of card off of Ebay to try out.  I'll post the results of trying that one when I get it.

---

### Post by AusIV4 on 2008-05-13
The caps and scroll lock flashing indicates a kernel panic. This almost always means hardware issues, and most commonly (in my experience) the problem is with RAM.

Run Memtest86+ for a while. It should alert you if there are bad segments.

---

### Post by jimbofluffy on 2008-05-22
I ordered a new wireless card, a netgear, which wasn't recognized by Xubuntu, so I used Ndiswrapper.  I no longer get the lockups when using wireless.

The other card, a Linksys, works fine on a windows box, so it appears the problem I was having is probably taht the auto drivers in Ubuntu or Xubuntu did not work well with the card.

---

### Post by conradcliff on 2008-06-13
I'm having the same issue...it's been a while since I've been on the forum so I posted in an archived thread without realizing it. This one seems to be more active so I thought I would post again. I'm guessing this problem is with the auto drivers used for the wireless cards but I'm a newb so what do I know. I'm going to try ndiswrapper and see what happens...I'm surprised no guru has tackled this yet :confused:

edit: Sheesh, this is an archived thread too...

---

### Post by kjswimmer on 2008-06-16
Ive been having the same exact problems i haven't taken a look when it freezes to see if the lights flash but i will and it happens to me when i run something that use a lot of my mem or CPU or w.e. and nothing works my mouse and keyboard dont work at all, i ahve to force restart it only started happening today and ive been trying to figure out whats going on. Can anyone help plz its really pissing me off its happened like 4 times today

---

### Post by useResa on 2008-06-18
Due to the fact that this thread is in an archived section and most recent comments are related to 8.04, I yesterday started [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=832383").
Since I am currently facing this issue as well.

---

### Post by artmendez on 2008-06-30
Same thing happening to me.

I switched to Hardy 8.04, kernel 2.6.24-19, GNOME 2.22.2, running in an Intel Core2 Duo T7500, 2.2GHz, 2GB RAM, Dell D630c notebook.

It used to happen if I was running on batteries... By the way, if I don't press a key or move the mouse, it will freeze for a few seconds before responding... Once in a while, if I leave it too long (undetermined period), flashing starts.

It just happened to me while plugged to AC for the first time. Doing nothing special. One Firefox session with multiple tabs. Netbeans 6.0.1 idle behind.


Any help/suggestions?

---

### Post by useResa on 2008-06-30
> **artmendez said:**
> Any help/suggestions?
Sorry to hear you are facing the same issue.
From what I understand you are also running 8.04 now.

The only suggestion I can make is to repost in [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=832383") which I have started specifically for 8.04 and because this current thread is archived and thus may not be updated much.

Hopefully someone will come with a solution and/or suggestion how we can overcome this. Or how we can determine what the cause is.

---

