---
title: "8.04 Panel disappears when Halt button clicked"
date: 2013-02-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Rick429CJ on 2013-02-02
[SIZE="3"][/SIZE] This happens even if I use the Halt button in the System menu. The only way I can shutdown is to use the Terminal. I tried installing another Panel but they all disappear when the Halt button is clicked

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2013-02-02
8o4 is EOL, we run 12o4 now.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-02-02
Please describe the hardware of your computer, at least cpu, ram, graphics chip/card, and we can suggest what version and flavour of Ubuntu to use.

---

### Post by Rick429CJ on 2013-02-03
> **sudodus said:**
> Please describe the hardware of your computer, at least cpu, ram, graphics chip/card, and we can suggest what version and flavour of Ubuntu to use.
CPU: Celron 2.4 MHz
Ram: 1.5 GB
Video card an unknown PCI one

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-02-03
> **Rick429CJ said:**
> CPU: Celron 2.4 MHz
Ram: 1.5 GB
Video card an unknown PCI one
Try version 12.04, either of these flavours (try a live session booted from a CD or USB drive)

- Lubuntu 12.04 desktop with the ultra light desktop environment LXDE supported until October 2013

- Xubuntu 12.04 LTS desktop with the light desktop environment XFCE, supported until April 2015

Check (running the live session) if your cpu supports pae with the following command

```
gksudo lshw|grep -i --colour pae
```
If it prints a text string including pae (high-lighted if --colour works), then you have pae, and can also run

- Lubuntu 12.10 which is supported until April 2014.

---

### Post by Rick429CJ on 2013-02-08
I am currently trying Lubuntu 12.1. It's as slow as a wet week!

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-02-08
*Thread moved to **General Help**.*

12.04 LTS is the current LTS release. Stable, supported until April 2017 and should be an improvement. Some users have reported 12.10 being slow on their hardware.

---

### Post by sudodus on 2013-02-09
> **Rick429CJ said:**
> I am currently trying Lubuntu 12.1. It's as slow as a wet week!
Then please try ***Lubuntu 12.04***. It is quite nice on my aging hardware and it is lightning fast on my newer hardware.

I agree with Bucky Ball: If problems with 12.10, use 12.04 :-)

---

