---
title: "2.6 ghz cpu act's like pentium 1 ???"
date: 2010-09-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by konsta82 on 2010-09-15
Here I have dell inspiron 1150 with 1G ram and celeron processor.
Whatever I do,processor is used 90% or more. It needs 30 seconds to start firefox. This is clean installation with recomended updates.
I tried 10.04,9.10,8.10,lubuntu.. and it's always the same.
This is sisters laptop and previous installation of XP used to work very nice. Had hard time to make her switch to linux but...
At the moment, Jauntu is installed and it is using 200-250 MB ram and 95-100% CPU !!! I installed it hour ago !?!
What to do?

---

### Post by tgm4883 on 2010-09-15
open a terminal and run 'top'. See what is using all of your CPU. Ram usage I would worry less about.

---

### Post by konsta82 on 2010-09-15
there is big difference between top command result and data from system monitor. I dont know what is this process,but all of them are changing all the time.
Same case was with previous ubuntu installations

---

### Post by konsta82 on 2010-09-15
hal-system-smbi is package that appears randomly and eating most of processor. I dont know was that case with previous installations,but looks like it must die.
Is it safe to delete it somehow?

---

### Post by pbrane on 2010-09-15
I have an Inspiron 1150 2.0G Pentium with 9.10 installed and it runs fine. 10.04 intel graphics issues caused me to go back to 9.10. It's not a laptop that I use much so I didn't want to hassle with getting the intel graphics to work.

Once you figure out about that *hal-system-smbi* thing you should be fine. BTW which ubuntu are you running?

---

### Post by konsta82 on 2010-09-15
at the moment,I'm running 9.04. Previously,I tried almost every distro and it was all the same.
I realised it is probably hardware issue,but laptop display is dead and being used with external monitor which is not working when I enter bios

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-09-15
> **konsta82 said:**
> at the moment,I'm running 9.04. Previously,I tried almost every distro and it was all the same.
I realised it is probably hardware issue,but laptop display is dead and being used with external monitor which is not working when I enter bios

Just run TOP on it's own and post back the screenshot. Close system monitor first.

---

### Post by konsta82 on 2010-09-15
there is top output
results are changing randomly,sometimes is 80% firefox,then 80% hal,then nothing..
same thing was with all other distros

---

