---
title: "16.04 with Firefox issue"
date: 2016-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pat4 on 2016-04-27
Hi,
I have an issue regarding Firefox on Ubuntu 16.04.  Awkward to explain but I'll do my best.....

I have the Firefox icon locked to my Launcher. Clicking this correctly opens FF. I then open the bookmarks (Bookmarks menu / show all bookmarks) from within FF and can open any number of pages in tabs.

Past behaviour used to be that if I then clicked the FF icon in launcher FF opened a number of small windows on the desktop, each corresponding to an opened tab including the bookmarks page and I could select (click) the tabbed page I wished to bring to the front. Bookmarks opened in a separate window on screen when clicking the FF icon.     This made reaccessing the bookmarks easy.  

Since upgrading to 16.04, I can now only get back to the bookmarks (now called library) by right-clicking the FF icon in launcher and selecting "Library" from the drop-down list. (Or re-opening them from the top menu) This is inconvenient and for me slows down my working.    It used to be that bookmarks opened in a separate window on screen when clicking the FF icon.

Can anyone help with any aspect of this behaviour? Is it a "new feature" of 16.04 or FF 45.0.2.,  or is it something I have done to cause said behaviour?  More importantly, can anyone help me correct it...?

Many thanks.

Pat.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2016-04-27
I'm not clear on what you're asking , but one thing that comes to mind . In preferences > general > when Firefox starts > show my home page, there is a drop-down menu option to "show my windows and tabs from last time."  You must have history enabled to use this option.

---

### Post by pat4 on 2016-04-27
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> I'm not clear on what you're asking , but one thing that comes to mind . In preferences > general > when Firefox starts > show my home page, there is a drop-down menu option to "show my windows and tabs from last time."  You must have history enabled to use this option.

Thanks for you reply.. Unfortunately it doesn't help with my problem.

It is difficult to explain but I'll try again.    When I have FF open I can open my bookmarks as a separate list by using the top menu [Bookmarks / Show all Bookmarks]
Until the last couple of days, I have been able to "toggle" between any open, FF pages and the bookmark menu by simply clicking the FF icon in  Launcher. This always opened up "windows" on my screen showing every instance off FF that was open,
including the bookmarks list. I could then bring the required page to the front by simply clicking the page I wished to view. The required page would then open full-screen.

This behaviour has changed.. I can now only bring opened webpages (or the bookmark menu) to the front is by right-clicking the Launcher icon and selecting from a list presented. 

I simply want to revert to the original behaviour.  

My laptop (also running Ubuntu 16.04) behaves as it always has done with the "windowed" option.  I have tried comparing settings between the two computers but despite all settings appearing to be the same the desktop machine is still exhibiting this abnormal behaviour.

Thanks once again.

Pat.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2016-04-27
The context menu option for library only appears when show all bookmarks is already open on my installation . When I select library it simply brings the show all bookmarks page to the top. Selecting the launcher again with the bookmarks and browser window open displays a smaller version of both windows which I can then toggle between. Is this what you are referring to ?

Edit: If I open each bookmark in a new window I can toggle between the various sites by using the launcher icon.

---

### Post by pat4 on 2016-04-28
> **Frogs Hair said:**
> The context menu option for library only appears when show all bookmarks is already open on my installation . When I select library it simply brings the show all bookmarks page to the top. Selecting the launcher again with the bookmarks and browser window open displays a smaller version of both windows which I can then toggle between. Is this what you are referring to ?

Edit: If I open each bookmark in a new window I can toggle between the various sites by using the launcher icon.



Hi Frogs Hair,
Yes - that is exactly what I am referring to...

When I have bookmarks and browser window open I can no longer click the launcher icon to select between them.  If I click the launcher icon, all that happens is that the system momentarily displays my desktop, then shows the page (or bookmarks list) that I was already looking at.

Clearly this is odd behaviour. I suspect I might have a major system corruption somewhere and finding it is going to be difficult. 

Kind regards,  Pat.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2016-04-28
You could try to reset the unity launcher from the terminal. Close other applications first.

```
sudo apt-get install dconf-tools
``````
dconf reset -f /org/compiz/
``` ```
setsid unity
```

---

### Post by pat4 on 2016-04-30
Frogs Hair,
Tried that - no joy I'm afraid...

As this is a relatively new install I'm going to try a "repair" by booting from the installation file.. Hopefully that will correct any corruptions that have occurred. If that doesn't work it wouldn't be too much of a task to reinstall after a format.

Thanks for your help.

Kind regards,  Pat.

---

