---
title: "Can't detect my monitor!Help, please!"
date: 2009-08-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vgerov93 on 2009-08-16
Hey guys.
I've just updated my 8.04 ubuntu to 9.04.First gdm couldnt start and only shows black screen.I fixed that following this [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RadeonDriver) . This is my xorg.conf :
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package..
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Radeon 9550"
        Driver          "ati"
        BusID           "PCI:1:0:0"
        Option          "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
        Option          "BuusType" "PCI"
        Option          "AGPMode" "1"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Generic Monitor"[FONT=monospace]
  [/FONT]Option                "DPMS"
    HorizSync         28-72[FONT=monospace]
  [/FONT]VertRefresh     43-60

EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    Device        "Radeon 9550"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1024x768"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Expansions"
        Option          "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Indentifier     "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
EndSectionNow every time i boot gdm runs in low graphics mode.I believe that this is caused because cant configure my monitor settings.My monitor is [http://www.productshub.com/Fujitsu-Siemens-ScenicView-B17-2/](http://www.productshub.com/Fujitsu-Siemens-ScenicView-B17-2/) .And.. [http://img441.imageshack.us/img441/8563/screenshota.png](http://img441.imageshack.us/img441/8563/screenshota.png) . 

So, please can somebody tell me how to configurate the Monitor Section please :popcorn:

---

### Post by Masquerade on 2009-08-16
it would be great if you coudl describe exactly what graphics card model you have.

are you able to set the screen resolution to the one showed in the screenshot?

and last but not least, please tell me the output of 

```
metacity --replace
```

---

### Post by vgerov93 on 2009-08-16
I'm with ATI Radeon 9550 128VRAM, i can change resolution from System -> Preferences -> Display but it bugs and i cant see nothing only 1280x1024 works.[SIZE=3]
[/SIZE][SIZE=1]metacity --replace [/SIZE]has no output only windows refresh :(

---

### Post by lessgov2007 on 2009-08-16
Do you have 3D acceleration? Can you see a 3D screensaver? 

If you do have 3D acceleration you could simply try adding the correct resolution to your xorg.conf

Example: Modes "WIDTHxHIEGHT "1280x1024" "1024x768"

But I'd make sure your actually getting 3D. Meaning that the driver is working properly. 

You should also give more information about your system such as, driver version, graphix card model, etc, etc.

---

### Post by konqui on 2009-08-16
Give output of lspci
Try booting in recovery mode then select fix graphics problems

---

### Post by vgerov93 on 2009-08-16
I can only run in low grafix mode and fglrx drivers doesn't work for me.I beleve that everything is that i cant configurate my monitor settings only 1280x1024 works i cant change Hrz as in the screenshot in the first post.Recovery boot and selecting fix graphics problems doesn't work(when gdm starts is shows not understandable images)
> vgerov93@gerov-desktop:~$ lspciraphics 
00:00.0 Host bridge: nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb Host Bridge (rev a1)
00:01.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb LPC Bridge (rev a2)
00:01.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation nForce 250Gb PCI System Management (rev a1)
00:02.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation CK8S USB Controller (rev a1)
00:02.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation CK8S USB Controller (rev a1)
00:02.2 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation nForce3 EHCI USB 2.0 Controller (rev a2)
00:05.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation CK8S Ethernet Controller (rev a2)
00:06.0 Multimedia audio controller: nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb AC'97 Audio Controller (rev a1)
00:08.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation CK8S Parallel ATA Controller (v2.5) (rev a2)
00:0a.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation nForce3 Serial ATA Controller (rev a2)
00:0b.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb AGP Host to PCI Bridge (rev a2)
00:0e.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation nForce3 250Gb PCI-to-PCI Bridge (rev a2)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AS [Radeon 9550]
01:00.1 Display controller: ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AS [Radeon 9550] (Secondary)

There were advanced screen preferences in old ubuntu releases where you could choose your monitor model how can i start this thing in 9.04?

---

### Post by lessgov2007 on 2009-08-16
From my experience you can't select a higher resolution than the highest given in xorg.conf

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2009-08-16
Try this: **gksudo nvidia-settings** that enables you to run the nVidia X Server Settings as root. Once you're happy with the set up then click **Apply** and then click **Save to X Configuration File** then quit the program.

---

### Post by lessgov2007 on 2009-08-16
> **scouser73 said:**
> Try this: **gksudo nvidia-settings** that enables you to run the nVidia X Server Settings as root. Once you're happy with the set up then click **Apply** and then click **Save to X Configuration File** then quit the program.
There's only one problem with that. 

Section "Device"
Identifier "Radeon 9550"
Driver "ati"
BusID "PCI:1:0:0"
Option "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps"
Option "BuusType" "PCI"
Option "AGPMode" "1"
EndSection

He's not using an NVidia card. 

All you have to do is add the resolution to xorg.conf and then it will be available in the screen resolution chooser. But that doesn't make the driver work properly with the card itself.

---

### Post by William_Smith on 2011-11-07
Hi new here so please don't get mad if screwed up the posting procdure, but I am also have an issue with detecting monitors.... I ubuntu 9.04 on a Sony VAIO PCV-RX550 Desktop but with a viewsonic [[URL="http://www.pawnmart.com/?itemid=146028971061"](http://www.pawnmart.com/?itemid=146028971061) ]("http://www.amazon.com/Sony-PCV-RX550-Desktop-1-5-GHz-Pentium/dp/B00005T3JG/ref=cm_cr_pr_pb_t")[/URL]and for the life of me I can't get the entire screen. I can't get my computer to detect the monitor or get a resolution that has the full screen. I'm not sure if you can see in the screen shot, but I can't see anything on the right edge and it is not centered on the monitor properly.[URL="http://www.amazon.com/Sony-PCV-RX550-Desktop-1-5-GHz-Pentium/dp/B00005T3JG/ref=cm_cr_pr_pb_t"][IMG]http://img830.imageshack.us/img830/4407/screenshotvk.png[/IMG]
[/URL]

---

