---
title: "3.8 instead of 4 gigs of ram in gutsy 64 bit"
date: 2007-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-10-24
So ive looked around the forums and found a few people getting this but no solution yet for me at least.

My bios recognizes 4096 mb (4gig) of ram. My gutsy install recognizes 3.8 gigs (the free command shows 3977624 kb or 3.79 gigs). 

Where are the other 205 mb?

---

### Post by mahousaru on 2007-10-24
I'm guessing this is not the case, as I think that someone with 4GB ram would have a dedicated graphics card, but just in case do you have an on-board GPU which doesn't have it's own memory?

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-10-24
I have an onboard intel x3100 (gma 965 chipset?) I don't actually know if it has any dedicated memory of its own I would bet it does not.

That would make some sence to me if some of the ram was reserved for my graphics card. If so do you know how this works? Can I set the amount that the graphics card can use.

I had always though that the graphics card would just take what it needed but i have no idea.

thanks

---

### Post by OoooMatron on 2007-10-24
onboard graphics is usually set in the bios. usually ranges from 16mb to 256. if you have onboard graphics then i am pretty sure you ram is being used by it.

---

### Post by mahousaru on 2007-10-25
From the good old unreliable wikipedia :) the Intel x3100:

"They rely on the computer's main memory for storage, which imposes a performance penalty as both the CPU and GPU have to access memory over the same bus."

So it is you GPU nicking some of your memory :)

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-10-25
Is that how it works that some of the ram is set aside for the gpu. Wouldn't it make more sense to simply have the gpu take ram straight from the main body of ram only when it needs this. This is all theoretical I have no idea how this really works.

If ram is set aside only to be used for the gpu is there a way I can set how much?

---

### Post by mahousaru on 2007-10-25
Is there anything in the BIOS that allows you to set it?

I remember one of my friends Shuttles was having problems playing a game and then I found it had only 32MB reserved...

---

### Post by zorkerz on 2007-10-25
Ya i remember a bios on on old computer of mine allowing that but i have not been able to find it on this bios. 

Furthur down on the wikipedia article it says that the gpu can handle a max of 384 mb of memory. If this will boost performance on some games (particularly civ4 + expansions, but also war3 and cs/steam games) I would like to set the memory dedicated to the graphics card to the max.

---

### Post by mahousaru on 2007-10-25
I have the 3000 GPU in my cctv PC, in dxdiag it says it has 128MB available, but only 20ishMB is missing from my main memory.  I am wondering does it dynamically steal memory as it needs it?

---

