---
title: "8.04 how to change resolution of the installation"
date: 2008-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FireFly3k on 2008-04-24
Something went wrong with my old Ubuntu server so I've waited a few weeks for 8.04 to be released. Now I'm trying to install it on my server but at the point where I have to start the installation I can't use F4 to select a different resolution. And as soon as I start the installation the screen becomes unreadable. With the previous Ubuntu Server releases I could just select a different resolution here and everything would work just fine.

Is there any other way to change the resolution? I've also tried a different monitor but that doesn't seem to be the problem.
I've searched on google and this forum but the only show F4 as the solution to this problem. :(

The hardware I use is a VIA EPIA M10000, [http://www.via.com.tw/en/products/mainboards/motherboards.jsp?motherboard_id=81](http://www.via.com.tw/en/products/mainboards/motherboards.jsp?motherboard_id=81).

I hope someone can help me.
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by sniderbr on 2008-04-29
I have a small server using the same VIA M10000 board.  I had the same problem when upgrading.  Try passing ```
vga=785
``` as a kernel parameter at boot time; if I remember correctly, do this by pressing F6 at the boot menu so that you can see the kernel boot options line (same place you tried F4).

Once you see the line of text, hit the space bar and type the above parameter, then press enter.  You should now be able to read the blue installer screens.

---

### Post by FireFly3k on 2008-04-29
> **sniderbr said:**
> I have a small server using the same VIA M10000 board.  I had the same problem when upgrading.  Try passing ```
vga=785
``` as a kernel parameter at boot time; if I remember correctly, do this by pressing F6 at the boot menu so that you can see the kernel boot options line (same place you tried F4).

Once you see the line of text, hit the space bar and type the above parameter, then press enter.  You should now be able to read the blue installer screens.
I was about to give up but I've tried what you said and it works perfectly. THANKS!!! :-D

---

### Post by sniderbr on 2008-05-05
> **FireFly3k said:**
> I was about to give up but I've tried what you said and it works perfectly. THANKS!!! :-D

No problem!  Glad I could help.

---

