---
title: "10.4 Crashed, Will Not Boot During an Update?"
date: 2011-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by matey3 on 2011-01-28
It happened to me again, I guess I need to ignore those updates but somehow I forget each time! This time it froze in middle of update no mouse no kybd no cap/num locks light nothing so I hard booted after an hour of wait, now I cannot boot at all.
I go thru Grub menu then it says press S to skip and M to manually load.
In most cases nothing works but I got to the prompt and put the root password but I dont have an IP address and cannot get 1?
I did fsck -p but no errors.
It says the OS is not on / or has been gone?

Has anyone got a cure for this, I got a lot of files and I like to have them back b4 doing a reinstall!

Thanks!

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2011-01-28
Howdy,

Boot off a live cd and save your data, then re-install.  When you re-install, make a separate /home partition.  This way, you can in future re-install without formatting /home.

Lastly, once the thing is working properly, turn the update feature off.  More problems are caused by updates than fixed by them.  I re-install my desktop/laptop systems once a year from scratch instead.  Servers, I lock down and leave running for years on end, till the hardware eventually fails.

---

### Post by matey3 on 2011-01-28
> **HermanAB said:**
> Howdy,

Boot off a live cd and save your data, then re-install.  When you re-install, make a separate /home partition.  This way, you can in future re-install without formatting /home.

Lastly, once the thing is working properly, turn the update feature off.  More problems are caused by updates than fixed by them.  I re-install my desktop/laptop systems once a year from scratch instead.  Servers, I lock down and leave running for years on end, till the hardware eventually fails.

Thank you very much Herman for the reply!

yeah I wished I had turned it off, it was working rather fine (except for occasional booting into low res. desktop,(nVidia display) but that was no big deal I could fix that....I got out of worse situation before but this time nothing worked?!
anyways...

Thanks again, Good Ideas (all the way)!

---

