---
title: "Ubuntu Server Postfix configuration to forward local system email"
date: 2018-02-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dilby on 2018-02-27
Hi,

I'm trying to configure Postfix as a send only server so that local system mail generated by things like cron, smartc etc will forward local email sent to <root> or <myusername> to an external real email address.
I've configured Postfix with [FONT=Menlo][COLOR=#000000]dpkg-reconfigure postfix, selected "Internet Site" and used myexternaldomain.com for the domain, I've also setup aliases I /etc/aliases for both <root> and <myusername> to alias for [EMAIL="myname@gmail.com"]myname@gmail.com[/EMAIL].

For som reason, emails send to root or myusername are not being send as they are being appended with the external domain name. Specifically :

[/COLOR][/FONT]```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]echo "Subject: sendmail test" | sendmail -v myname@gmail.com.[/FONT][/COLOR]
```[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]This works and I receive the email at my gmail account
[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]
```
echo "Subject: sendmail test" | sendmail -v myusername@localhost
```This also works and receive email at gmail
[/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]
```
echo "Subject: sendmail test" | sendmail -v myusername
```This doesn't work and emails seems to get stuck in the outbox. The mail log reports :
[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
[COLOR=#000000][FONT=Menlo]Feb 27 17:21:11 media postfix/error[22323]: 19B65C0ACC: to=<myusername@myexternaldomaim.com>, relay=none, delay=0.11, delays=0.06/0/0/0.06, dsn=4.4.1, status=deferred (delivery temporarily suspended: connect to myexternamdomain.com[82.25.69.32]:25: Connection refused)[/FONT][/COLOR]
```
[COLOR=#000000]
[FONT=Menlo]So it appears for some reason, mail targeting a local user is being appended with the domain name is is then being sent externally. It means I'm missing emails being sent to local users.
[/FONT]
Any help will be much appreciated.

Thanks D.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by TheFu on 2018-02-27
I don't do it the way you do. Sorry.

Reconfigure.  Use "satellite" and forward all email to your main email server.  Setup all the aliases to forward from the localhost to email accounts on the main email server.  Don't forget to re-run **newaliases** after.  The main email server needs to have static public IP, correct forward and reverse DNS, MX, TXT for SPF and DMARC setup - basically, it should be a real email server.

All my systems forward their email to a central email server which is connected to the internet. 99.9999999% of the time, email is sent to root@localhost --> my [email]account@mydomain.com[/email] (the main email server).  It is handy for logwatch and cron output.  The main email server is listed as my relayhost in the config file.

I do not allow any email from these other systems to be sent externally.  Firewall rules prevent that as an anti-spam solution (smtp(s) is only allowed out to the main email system).  Gotta stop any spammers from being allowed to use my systems for spamming, right?

Of course, there are 50 different ways to do what you want, but I only know the 1 I've had working for years here. Sorry.

---

