---
title: "8.10 has many problems."
date: 2009-07-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gredfallen on 2009-07-25
Hey, I am very new to ubuntu (only had it for about 3 days), and it looks great but I am having some problems. First off, it keeps either freezing or crashing my computer. I have a junk computer (Gateway solo 5300) that I put it on for the only partition. When it freezes, the caps lock and scroll lock lights flash and I can't do anything at all. When it crashes I mean it force shut-downs my entire computer. So that is problem number 1. 
The second main issue I am finding is a lack of ability to connect to the internet. I checked all my hardware on the computer before i reformatted the old WinXP OS to Ubuntu. My wireless card (D-Link DWL-650+) was working like a champ until i went to ubuntu. It knows the card is there, and that it is a wireless card (the network manager adds 'Wireless Networks' when i plug it in) and I am not 5 feet from my wireless router so there is no way I am out of range. But it doesn't detect any wireless networks. I also tried ethernet, which i know is active because I can plug it into the computer I am using now and it works. I tried going to the forums and there is the sudo lshw -C network command that i used. It says the network is disabled, but again, i know that isnt right because I can plug it into another computer and it works great. Please help me!

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2009-07-25
You may be able to load your wireless Windows drivers using "ndisgtk" found in Synaptic. You would, once that is installed, likely use the Windows XP driver from the wireless card disk or from the manufacturer web site. I have used this successfully on 2 computers.

Give it a shot.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-07-25
> **gredfallen said:**
> First off, it keeps either freezing or crashing my computer. I have a junk computer (Gateway solo 5300) that I put it on for the only partition. When it freezes, the caps lock and scroll lock lights flash and I can't do anything at all. When it crashes I mean it force shut-downs my entire computer. So that is problem number 1.

Most of the time these are hardware problems.

I've commonly seen bad memory or weak power supplies cause this problem.

---

### Post by gredfallen on 2009-07-25
ok, so bad memory, what can be done about that? get an external ard drive?

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-07-25
WiFi Troubleshooting:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WifiDocs/WirelessTroubleShootingGuide)

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-07-26
> **gredfallen said:**
> ok, so bad memory, what can be done about that? get an external ard drive?

I meant bad RAM.

Try memtest (it's on the Live CD)

---

