---
title: "10.04 usb devices not unmounting correctly."
date: 2010-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by numbness05 on 2010-05-06
I have just installed 10.04 as an upgrade from 9.10.

I am having difficulty because none of the USB drives I am using are unmounting as they should be.
normally speaking when erasing data from my USB key when you come to unmounting it it will ask if you would like to send this data to the recycle bin thus giving you back the extra storage space on the device.
10.04 isnt allowing me to send these items to the recycle bin ad doesn't give the option to do this.

Any ideas please any body this is really frustrating to say the least..

Many thanks in advance.

---

### Post by DawieS on 2010-05-06
The files you deleted from the USB drive is in the Trash Bin on the USB drive (To view them, open a file browser, click on the View > Show Hidden Files tab. Now look inside the Trash folder on the USB drive).

If you want to permanently delete the files, click on 'Empty Trash' before you unmount the USB drive.

---

### Post by Timtro on 2010-05-06
Also, Shift+Del will bypass the recycle bin. I find that to be rather handy.

---

### Post by aloisam on 2010-05-07
> **numbness05 said:**
> I have just installed 10.04 as an upgrade from 9.10.
10.04 isnt allowing me to send these items to the recycle bin ad doesn't give the option to do this.


I guess you select "safely remove" option from context menu, try "eject" or "unmount" instead (not sure, dont have english installed) and system should ask you if you wanna empty trash. Or, if there is no such option, go to nautilus and click on triangle icon nearby device you want to unmount, this should works either.

I thing this is annoying bug, with other problem related:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-applets/+bug/569724](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-applets/+bug/569724)

---

