---
title: "10.10 Not loading/booting after some time"
date: 2011-02-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by adeldex on 2011-02-05
First sorry for my bad English.
Second I am a newbie.
Sorry if I double post, but I didn't find any answers :(

OK, so I installed Ubuntu 10.10 alongside with my other os(XP,win7,XP)
nd after some time using it, (3-5 weeks or so) it stopped to boot soon after grub2 menu.
First I recovered some of my data, and then I reinstalled ubuntu 10.10 because there is no repair option on the live cd.
And yesterday when I wanted to go into ubuntu, after grub2 menu, it froze at the same point (like the last time ) and it never continued....
I need to check where it stops in 2nd option (recovery something) from grub2 and write it down and post it here. 

I don't want to reinstall ubuntu again, since this problem will return, probably, and I have to spend some time for customizing and nesting in my ubuntu .
I'm not asking for a program or recovery software, ill do it manually when I know how XD

So if someone know a way to repair ubuntu 10.10 (not reinstall) please post it here :)

---

### Post by BigTobster on 2011-02-05
I may have the same problem. 

See this thread.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10430428&mode=linear#post10430428](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10430428&mode=linear#post10430428)

A solution has already been suggested which may help for you

---

### Post by adeldex on 2011-02-05
OK at the grub2 2nd option 
UBUNTU, with LINUX 2.6.35-24 - generic - PAE (recovery mode)

it shows me some of that boot information and last 2 lines are 
[    0.009019] SMP alternatives: switching to UP code
[    0.028426] ACPI : Core revision 20100428
and a small " _ " flashes and i can't type anything

and at the 1st grub2 option (without recovery mode)
It freezes at the
"Black screen with flashing white cursor in the top left corner"
forever.

---

### Post by adeldex on 2011-02-05
> **BigTobster said:**
> I may have the same problem. 

See this thread.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10430428&mode=linear#post10430428](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10430428&mode=linear#post10430428)

A solution has already been suggested which may help for you

it stops at ACPI but
 noacpi or nomodeset is't helping :(
But thx for your reply

---

### Post by adeldex on 2011-02-06
Yeeeee, I                                        figured it out. Its my sh**y PC.
When I wanted to install ubuntu 9.10 for the first time, I stuck at "Black screen with flashing white cursor in the top left corner", I thought WTF? I mean at install??? and restarted few times. Later I decided to install ubuntu 8.10 (my first touch with linux) and it stuck at the same point, and I had 8.10 installed before, so it must have been my PC.
I plugged out my hdd, loaded defaults for my bios - but nothing
Then I took out my battery from the motherboard, and woe-la, live cd started to boot XD

Today it remind me at that event, so I tried to boot from live CD,-nothing, took out the battery,
 restarted: live CD continued to boot ,then restarted and ubuntu 10.10 continued to boot :guitar:
and i opened firefox and ubuntu forums and I am  writing this right now :lolflag:
So every time my ubuntu stops loading, i have to plug out my MB battery :)
Thanks everybody for your help):P 
I ill be more active on this forum from now on  ;D

PS: I remember I changed date in windows for some program, I know that windows automatically change bios time and date. Maybe that has something to do with?

---

