---
title: "Uninstall Ubuntu(9.04) then install Vista?"
date: 2009-12-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Deckster on 2009-12-26
Hi!
I've had Ubuntu for a while now and decided to change back to Vista.
Problem is, I don't know how I am supposed to uninstall Ubuntu and then install Vista.
If I directly use the Vista recovery CD I get "Restore Failed Reason 0xd0000017".

I currently only have Ubuntu installed on the C drive, so no Ubuntu inside Windows etc.

Thanks,

Deckster.

---

### Post by x33a on 2009-12-26
did you delete your vista recovery partition when you installed ubuntu?

please post the output of
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

edit: just searched for the error code, and found these

[http://www.vistaheads.com/forums/windows-vista-home-premium/293850-windows-restore-failure.html](http://www.vistaheads.com/forums/windows-vista-home-premium/293850-windows-restore-failure.html)

[http://davidwatson.org/2008/11/acer-restore-failed-reason-0xd0000017.html](http://davidwatson.org/2008/11/acer-restore-failed-reason-0xd0000017.html)

---

### Post by Deckster on 2009-12-26
> **x33a said:**
> did you delete your vista recovery partition when you installed ubuntu?

please post the output of
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

 ```
Disk /dev/sda: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xb37a81e0

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1       29272   235127308+  83  Linux
/dev/sda2           29273       30401     9068692+   5  Extended
/dev/sda5           29273       30401     9068661   82  Linux swap / Solaris

```

---

### Post by dillandriskell on 2009-12-26
We're sorry to see you go!  You'll need an actual Vista installation CD however, not just the recovery CD.  The recovery CD was meant to fix a broken Vista system, not install a Vista system.  I hope your computer came with one, or you have one lying around somewhere.  The Vista CD's are rather expensive =/

You don't need to uninstall Ubuntu as once you install Vista with the proper boot CD it will wipe any other operating system.

---

### Post by Deckster on 2009-12-26
> **dillandriskell said:**
> We're sorry to see you go!  You'll need an actual Vista installation CD however, not just the recovery CD.  The recovery CD was meant to fix a broken Vista system, not install a Vista system.  I hope your computer came with one, or you have one lying around somewhere.  The Vista CD's are rather expensive =/

You don't need to uninstall Ubuntu as once you install Vista with the proper boot CD it will wipe any other operating system.

Well, the weird thing is that a CD didn't come with the computer. Instead, they said that I were supposed to burn it. I did, and the recovery CD I  am talking about is that very CD.

I don't know if you can call it recovery, but it's basically a CD generated by an Acer computer.

:confused:

---

### Post by Deckster on 2009-12-26
Anyone got a solution?

---

### Post by dillandriskell on 2009-12-26
Hmm, honestly I'd say it has something to do with that CD.

Try to borrow another one from a friend?  The only other (legal) alternative would be to buy it, and I hope you can find a way around that.

---

### Post by stew721 on 2009-12-26
> **Deckster said:**
> Anyone got a solution?
You're basically SoL without an actual installation CD/DVD as you deleted the recovery partition.  If you purchased the computer from a local store, you may be able to get them to install from one of their discs and use the serial on the sticker that should attached to your computer.  They may charge you for the service though.

---

### Post by Shpongle on 2009-12-26
is there any particular reason you want to switch back , i mean if you haven't got a windows cd , you might as well stay on ubuntu till you can get one, or we can help you sort out any problems with ubuntu if you have any ?

---

### Post by dillandriskell on 2009-12-26
> **DillByrne said:**
> is there any particular reason you want to switch back , i mean if you haven't got a windows cd , you might as well stay on ubuntu till you can get one, or we can help you sort out any problems with ubuntu if you have any ?

I second that!  There's always a ton of people online who are just itching to help, me included.  You can essentially get Ubuntu running just like Windows or very close, so if there's anything you need assistance with in getting your computer to that state just shoot!

This website might help you as well;

[http://theindexer.wordpress.com/2009/10/25/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-9-10-aka-karmic-koala/](http://theindexer.wordpress.com/2009/10/25/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-9-10-aka-karmic-koala/)

Now, this page uses the terminal a lot but don't let that discourage you.  It looks intimidating but you don't have to know anything about it!  You can open it from **Applications > Accessories > Terminal**.  Then when that website gives you code to paste into the terminal, just highlight it on the web page, press "Ctrl + C" to copy it, then go into the terminal and press "Shift + Ctrl + V" to paste it.  Then hit enter.  

Every now and then the terminal will ask you "Are you sure you want to do this? (Y/N)" or "Files can't be verified, continue? (Y/N)" Always just type "y" then hit enter.  Also, it may bring you to a "terms and conditions page" you can navigate the options using "Tab" and "Enter" to confirm.

That's the basics, the stuff I had trouble with when I was new.  Hope it helped!

---

### Post by Deckster on 2009-12-26
> **DillByrne said:**
> is there any particular reason you want to switch back , i mean if you haven't got a windows cd , you might as well stay on ubuntu till you can get one, or we can help you sort out any problems with ubuntu if you have any ?

I am pretty much dead man without windows for some reason. 

Also, I think that I found my answer. 
[http://blog.infuselearning.com/index.php/2009/11/20/acer-aspire-6920-rebuild-restore?blog=3](http://blog.infuselearning.com/index.php/2009/11/20/acer-aspire-6920-rebuild-restore?blog=3)

If anyone could shed some light on this, please do.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2009-12-27
You need to pay attention to what folks are telling you.

The CD only provided the ability to boot the machine into Windows Recovery mode, which then used the Acer-provided image on the hard drive to restore your machine -- an image you apparently removed when you installed Ubuntu.

You will have to obtain DVD media needed to INSTALL Vista, period. There are no other options.

Realize that if you borrow a retail DVD, it will not have the Acer drivers or software that came with your machine.  Also, if it's an original, pre-SP1 or pre-SP2 DVD, you will then most likely be faced with HUNDREDS of Windows Updates, once you install.

The other option, which may require a lot less work, is to contact Acer and arrange to purchase a full-restore DVD.

---

