---
title: "Keep Low Graphics?"
date: 2009-05-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2009-05-18
When I boot into Xubuntu, it pops up saying that it's running in low graphics mode. The only way I can continue to the desktop is to say "Run in low graphics mode just for this session.". How can I use this configureation without going through this every time? I really don't care if it's in low graphics mode, just as long as it boots and runs ok.

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-18
> **raptormanad said:**
> When I boot into Xubuntu, it pops up saying that it's running in low graphics mode. The only way I can continue to the desktop is to say "Run in low graphics mode just for this session.". How can I use this configureation without going through this every time? I really don't care if it's in low graphics mode, just as long as it boots and runs ok.

Post a copy of your xorg.conf file.
To do so, open Terminal, type in the following and copy paste it here:

```
sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2009-05-18
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-05-18
Try both (and reboot if each after each one to see if it works):

Open terminal and type in:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

AND/OR

```
sudo displayconfig-gtk
``` and try to select a resolution/refres rate that's optimal for your screen.


If those don't work, post the optimal resolution for your monitor here..

---

