---
title: "7.10 won't shut down"
date: 2007-11-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bobetko on 2007-11-26
My Dell Pentium 4 laptop won't shut down. 
It started happening when I moved from feisty to gutsy.
Any medicine for this?

PS. Is it turning to Windows?

---

### Post by nikoPSK on 2007-11-26
it just hangs or what? does it give some text?

---

### Post by mali2297 on 2007-11-26
What happens if you run
```

sudo shutdown -h now

```
in the terminal? Any error messages?

---

### Post by viking777 on 2007-11-26
I wouldn't feel too alone, my laptop (and the one I owned prior to this) have never shut down with any version of Linux, ever, and I have tried just about every distro there is.

If Linux programmers stopped worrying about desktop bling and concentrated on real problems it might get solved, but I don't think that is going to happen any time soon.

Still, we live in hope.

---

### Post by skymera on 2007-11-26
agree ^^

i dont care much about bling, i wanted linux for speed, turns out its slugging along.

there a pleanty opf threads about not shutting down, have a hunt.

sorry cant help much, i must be going!

---

### Post by bobetko on 2007-11-28
thanks for your replies...

I tried: sudo shutdown -h now

1) First time, it was ok, showed some list, (like shutdown sequence). 
It showed some errors, but couldn't record it. It was too quick. Is there any way to freeze PC at this moment? Like in old DOS, Pause key? Then, PC really turned off. So it was fine.

2) Second time, I wanted to try to pause it to see the errors, but screen just went dark after shutdown command and PC didn't turn off. One of the control leds, one showing power on/off (circle with vertical line on top of the circle :-)) would stay on until I would keep pressed turn off button for some time (4 seconds). The same would happen if I try to restart.

Thanks.

---

