---
title: "Configuring GURB after Fedora 12 dual boot"
date: 2010-01-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Elssar on 2010-01-04
I had Ubuntu 9.10 installed on my laptop. A while ago I dual installed Fedora 12 on the laptop & now I can't enter Ubuntu. I don't get an option to select the OS at start up, Fedora loads automatically. Can anyone help me configuring my GRUB?
This is my grub.conf file in fedora -
# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /boot/, eg.
#          root (hd0,2)
#          kernel /vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/mapper/vg_elssar-lv_root
#          initrd /initrd-[generic-]version.img
#boot=/dev/sda
default=0
timeout=0
splashimage=(hd0,2)/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora (2.6.31.5-127.fc12.i686.PAE)
        root (hd0,2)
        kernel /vmlinuz-2.6.31.5-127.fc12.i686.PAE ro root=/dev/mapper/vg_elssa$
        initrd /initramfs-2.6.31.5-127.fc12.i686.PAE.img

Also, the Ubuntu installation is 64bit, whereas the Fedora installation is 32bit, don't think that should cause any problems, but I want to be sure.

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-01-04
You should be able to use your Ubuntu Live CD to reinstall your Ubuntu GRUB to MBR.

1) First boot your Ubuntu Live CD and open GParted and check to see if your Ubuntu partition has a file system label. The file system label makes it easier to work on, since it will be mounted under that name when you mount it. If it doens't already have a label, right-click on your partition and click 'Label', and give your Ubuntu file system a user friendly name.

2) Mount your Ubuntu file system by clicking on the icon for it in your 'Places' menu.

3) Use the command 'ls /media' to check the name of your Ubuntu file system's new mount point, will probably be named the same as your file system label from now on,
```
ls /media
```4) Replace the word 'disk' in the command below with the name of the mount point for your Ubuntu file system you just verified in the above command and then run the command below,
```
sudo grub-setup -d /media/disk/boot/grub /dev/sda
```Now you should have Ubuntu's GRUB restored to MBR in your first hard disk and you should be able to reboot, removing the Live CD and boot into Ubuntu.

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-01-04
If you an errors complaining about being unable to access a device.map file, try this command,
```
sudo grub-setup -d /media/*disk*/boot/grub -m /media/*disk*/boot/grub/device.map /dev/sda
```Again, you must replace the word 'disk' in each instance with the real name of your mount point.

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-01-04
5) As soon as you have successfully booted into Ubuntu, you can run 'sudo grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg' to have Ubuntu scan your computer and update your GRUB menu with an entry for Fedora,
```
sudo grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-01-04
I was under the impression that F12 uses grub2, and if so you should be able to add ubuntu to the fedora grub menu simply by running ```
update-grub
``` in a fedora root terminal.

If that is successful but you still prefer to use ubuntu grub, boot into ubuntu and run ```
sudo grub-install /dev/sda
```if you want grub on the MBR, which is easiest, or replace the sda with the disk or partition you want/prefer.  Ubuntu's own grub will then take over from fedora's, and you can run ```
sudo update-grub
``` to get the fedora entry on your new grub menu.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2010-01-04
The version of Grub used in Fedora can not yet boot ext4. Since by default Fedora uses a /boot partition (for LVM) I guess they have not seen the need.

Install the version of grub from Ubuntu as outlined by ajgreeny (it will recognize Fedora).

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2010-01-04
Oh crikey!

I forgot fedora uses LVM, which does make things more difficult, I think.

Do they do that just to baffle people?  I remember the first time I tried installing fedora to a partition on a ubuntu machine and after restoring ubuntu's grub, could not get the fedora partition to mount with all the usual mount commands.  It took a friendly soul from here to tell me that it would be easier to manually partition for fedora, without using LVM, and then be able to use the normal mount methods I was used to.

---

### Post by Emmtor on 2010-09-07
Hello everyone, I've had the same experience(although I used fedora 13).
I tried Herman's idea, but configuring grub didn't work. My Ubuntu partition is Labeled 'Ubuntu' and it sdb5.Anyway here's the output.

```
 $ sudo grub-setup -d /media/Ubuntu/boot/grub -m /media/Ubuntu/boot/grub/device.map /dev/sdb5
grub-setup: error: cannot stat /media/Ubuntu/boot/grub/boot.img

```There is no such file as '/media/Ubuntu/boot/grub/boot.img'.
Is there supposed to be one?

Also my device.map is: 
(hd0)    /dev/sda
(hd1)    /dev/sdb

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-09-07
The grub-install command runs another command called grub-mkimage when GRUB is written to any hard disk's MBR. So yeah, there should be a boot.img in there especially if you have ever installed GRUB to any MBR, (as most of us would).

You may find it easiest in your situation to just chroot and run grub-install from inside your Ubuntu operating system that way instead, [COLOR=#333333][How to chroot]("http://members.iinet.net/%7Eherman546/p20/GRUB2%20Bash%20Commands.html#chroot").  :D

 [/COLOR]

---

### Post by Emmtor on 2010-09-08
Thanks for your quick reply. There seems to be another problem though..Sorry to be such a whiner, but I'm afraid there isn't a '/etc/resolv.conf' file either. 
```
 
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf /media/Ubuntu/etc/resolv.conf
cp: cannot stat '/etc/resolv.conf': No such file or direcory

```Searching resolv.conf led into these two files:
/usr/share/ubuntu-docs/ubuntu/sample/resolv.conf
/usr/share/man/man5/resolv.conf.5.gz
The first contained 5 lines:

search com
nameserver 204.11.126.131
nameserver 64.125.134.133
nameserver 64.125.134.132
nameserver 208.185.179.218

 
The second seems to be a manual of sorts, and gives general information about the resolver file, as well as other files.

Is there any way to create a resolv.conf file?
By the way, I have access to the Internet with the computer I am using. I read that if the modem provides the DNS it won't be necessary to copy and paste the resolv.conf file.
Are there any other options available?

It is not necessary to spoonfeed me, so if it's not easy to give me some commands, pointing to the right direction will work as well, I have no problem studying and reading documentation. Thanks to everyone! :D

Edit: I omitted the 'sudo cp /etc/resolv.conf...' step, but even after 'grub-install /dev/sdb'
there is still no boot.img file in '/media/Ubuntu/boot/grub'.

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-09-08
The /etc/resolve.conf step is for networking.
Sometimes it's useful to be able to have access to the internet and it's possible to fix a damaged operating system in some cases by getting updates. For example, if the power was suddenly disconnected while somebody was getting some updates to vital operating system files and the operating system can't reboot normally because it is missing some important parts. A person might be able to chroot from a Live CD and finish getting the updates which will fix the operating system so it can boot normally again.
You were right to realize that the /etc/resolve.conf step is not necessary just for running grub-install. :)

I presume you're booting your second hard disk from the BIOS boot menu. Does your operating system boot the way you want it to now? :)

---

### Post by Emmtor on 2010-09-08
I am so silly..I didn't try booting from my other disk.
Yes, everything works fine now. Thanks for everything Herman!

Initially, I thought that since I (thought I) had left my other hard disk intact, booting from the other hard disk would boot me directly into Ubuntu.
Looks like I have a lot to learn.

---

### Post by Herman on 2010-09-08
:D I don't know what you have in the first hard disk, but most people would find it more convenient to install GRUB to /dev/sda, (meaning the first hard disk MBR), so as to avoid the extra work of using the BIOS boot menu when they want to boot Ubuntu.
It generally doesn't hurt and may turn out to be useful to have GRUB installed in all hard disk MBRs if your computer has more than two. That way if you add or remove a hard disk or change the BIOS boot order somehow your computer will still boot to GRUB and you'll be able to boot your Ubuntu operating systems from GRUB. The reverse would not be true though, if you remove the Ubuntu hard disk you wouldn't be able to boot Windows if Ubuntu's GRUB is written to MBR in the other hard disk, since the main working parts of GRUB would have been removed with the Ubuntu disk. 

If you have a MacInstosh instead of a PC, ( an [EFI ]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extensible_Firmware_Interface")instead of a BIOS and MBR), or if your computer has some kind of full disc encryption like Windows ''[BitLocker]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitLocker_Drive_Encryption")' or some other brand, then you probably shouldn't install GRUB to MBR in that disc. If you have an old model Toshiba Laptop with 'Express Media Player' installing GRUB to MBR can cause problems in some models, or if you have '[Ontrack Disc Manager]("http://www.ontrackdatarecovery.com/hard-drive-software/diskmanager.aspx")', you probably should avoid installing GRUB to MBR without learning more about it first.
Those instance do exist, but they're rare, and you would know it if your computer had any of that software, (because you would have paid extra money for it).

It's safe to install GRUB to MBR in all hard disks in almost all PCs since Windows boots from its 'boot sector', (the first sector of its partition). 
Writing GRUB to MBR doesn't affect Windows at all in most computers, since the MBR is a long way from the Windows boot sector. 
A lot of people get the terms 'boot sector' and 'MBR' confused, or use them interchangeably. I would agree that the MBR is a special kind of boot sector, but the MBR contains the partition table and there is only one MBR per hard disk. There can be lots of partitions in the hard disk with boot sectors in each of them.
It's perfectly safe to write GRUB to MBR (the first sector of the hard disk), in a hard disk that has Windows in it, but it is a bad idea to write GRUB to the Windows boot sector, (the first sector of the partition). Writing GRUB to MBR does not harm the MBR's unique ID number which Microsoft decided to make Vista and 7's boot loader sensitive to.

---

