---
title: "14.04 Light Locker: The screen never blanks after inactivity"
date: 2014-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dave97232 on 2014-04-21
Hello.  I just upgraded to Xubuntu 14.04.  The screen never goes blank or turns off.  For example:
 
[LIST]
[*]I go away and return hours later, and see the screen is still bright and showing my login prompt.
[*]I CTRL-ALT-DEL to go to the login prompt, go away and return hours later, and the screen is still bright and showing my login prompt.
[/LIST]



[LIST]
[*]This is a fresh install rather than upgrading an existing installation.
[*]I have two displays set non-mirrored and sharing the same wallpaper.
[/LIST]

In Light Locker Settings (mostly default):
[LIST]
[*]Blank screen after: 10 minutes
[*]Switch off display after (depends on hardware support): 15 minutes
[*]Enable light-locker: ON
[*]Automatically lock the session: When the screensaver is activated
[*]Delay locking after screensaver for: 10 seconds
[*]Lock on suspend: OFF (I tried turning it on anyway but it didn't help).
[/LIST]

Is this a bug, or am I just dumb and cannot figure out the magic setting?  Thanks, in advance, for your help.

---

### Post by dave97232 on 2014-04-29
Am I the only person who experiences this problem? :confused:

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2014-04-30
check the power manager settings

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-04-30
I don't know about or use xubuntu, but what you describe is how it has been for ubuntu desktop for a number of weeks now. Also see [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/unity/+bug/1292041").

---

### Post by dave97232 on 2014-05-02
Thanks.  That bug does sound very related, although I am not getting the exact reported behavior (my screen NEVER blanks under any circumstances, as far as I have discovered).  However, it may just be another manifestation of that bug.  The difference may be due to xfce/xfwm.

I will review the discussion over there.  It seems like there are some interesting things to explore.

---

### Post by debiant on 2014-05-11
This is a problem?  I'm using Ultimate Edition and this still has that awful screen turns off bug every 10 minutes while you try to watch a film or TV.
Please don't file this as a bug-we don't need hidden settings-the screen saver/power management should be visible, in one place and user friendly, like it is in every other operating system.
I have done every workaround on the net and I still need Windows just to watch a film.
I'm tempted to just go for the latest Ubuntu, if you can watch a movie or TV on it, even though I don't get on with Unity.

I run a shell-script at logon now to stop the screen going blank:

> xset s noblank; xset s 0 0; xset s off

:p

---

