---
title: "9.10 Text invisible on all screens after last update"
date: 2009-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Karmic_Kim on 2009-11-18
OK, first post. I'm fairly new to Ubuntu and Linux and have only a few months experience with them.

I successfully installed Ubuntu 9.10 on an MSI Wind U100 dual with Windows XP. It's been running wonderfully until after I installed the last set of updates 11 Nov.09. From the next boot, all text in all windows was suddenly white and so when on a white background, invisible. Likewise just after the first Ubuntu white logon on startup and the logon screen itself. I've searched the forums and internet and cannot find anything similar.

I've made the text in menus visible by changing the colour scheme via System/Preferences/Appearance. This option still defines text as black on white but it's being ignored.

I can sometimes see text by selecting it (see attachment). The icons on the desktop have also changed to have a black background instead of the transparent one.

I've attached some screen prints. I'm starting to seriously think about a re-install. Ouch!

Any help, hints, ideas or inspiration **greatly** appreciated.

---

### Post by Karmic_Kim on 2009-11-23
OK. Things are back to normal though why is unclear. Getting ready for backup, I saw that Update Manager had a stack of updates including XORG so I ran it. It required a reboot. Nothing! Switch off/on. Nix. No GRUB menu, just a flashing cursor. So using 9.10 CD live with intention of reinstalling GRUB, I rebooted. But instead of the live CD, the installed system came up with text bright and visible. (Yes, boot menu is set to read from CD-ROM before HD). Removed CD and rebooted et voila! Everything fine. Black Magic??????? Computers!!!!

---

