---
title: "New 11.04 install:Problem w/configuration server"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ahiga on 2011-05-02
Hi All:

I hope I can find a solution here before deleting Ubuntu and scraping the whole idea. I couldn't find any answers in the install forum or doing a search here. Using 11.04 from a Live CD worked fine. When I decided to install and use 11.04 I get this message:
[B][SIZE=2]
Ubuntu 10.10: There is a problem with the configuration server.  /usr/lib/libgconf2-4/gconf-sanity-check-2 exited with error status 256[/SIZE][/B]

I've tried re-installing to various size, formatted partitions, each time resulting with the same error message. I googled this error and have read several ppl reporting this same error message but without solutions.

Secondly: In the event a solution to the above is not available, how do I get rid of the grub loader after un-installing Ubuntu? Is there an easier way than having to run MBRfix?

Will the next versions install process be a bit less problematic?

Thanks

---

### Post by rmargvos on 2011-05-08
I am new to the Ubuntu arena, and just installed 11.04 and am receiving this same error.  Help and newbie, please...and thank you.

---

### Post by Brickman on 2011-05-08
I am also having this exact problem.

Using a Dell Mini 12. I was getting an error about the "gnome power manager", googled up some advice on how to fix, and now I am getting the "...configuration server ... withed with status code 256" error.

Thank you for any help anyone has! :)

---

### Post by e-solvent on 2011-05-08
Attempted to upgrade from 10.10 and received this error message first

"Could not update ICEauthority file /home<myusername>/.ICEauthority"

then this

"There is a problem with the configuration server 
(/usr/lib/libgconf2-4/gconf-sanity-check-2 exited with status 256)

I tried a normal upgrade then a clean install but nothing worked.

Then I even got a message that my setup can't handle the new visual environment and will be reduced to the basic one. BTW my machine is quite happy to run Windows Aero :D

It appears that this install/version is kinda fckud.

Going back on my Ubuntu experience:
-I could not install 9.04 at all
-I could install 10.4 with ignoring some error messages during the install process
-I was a happy user of 10.10
-I am an upset dude who tried installing 11.04 and is now stuck with a broken install and will continue to use Windows 7 in dual boot (it was a present and beside it I only use open-source apps)

So if someone could help us that would be just plain great. Thank you in advance Ubuntu Gurus!

---

### Post by nickjzee on 2011-05-13
Same issue here.

---

### Post by supersix4our on 2011-05-15
This happened to me as well. I have not been able to find a fix for it.

---

### Post by supersix4our on 2011-05-16
I'm surprised that no one is able to help with this issue :(

---

### Post by erych on 2011-08-10
I just moved back ot Ubuntu after many years away doing a dual boot system with windows 7 and getting the same error. Has there still not been a fix for this issue?

---

### Post by expphoto on 2011-08-16
Also having the problem.

Tried to chmod the XML files as another post suggested. Same with chmodding the libgconf2-4 directory.  Also deleted the. Gconf home directory. All end the same way. It boots then hangs on starting cups in startup. Any new revelations?

---

### Post by kzendra on 2011-08-30
Reboot you PC and wait for logon screen (or the first error message)
press ctrl+alt+f1 an login
type: 
sudo chown -R username:username /home/username
type password when prompted

reboot (sudo reboot) or ctrl+alt+f7 to return to gnome session (if you were on logon screen)

This happens often after problems with permissions  - you copy your home folder using live CD or similar which depending on the way you do it might screwup file ownership. In my case, root was the owner of all files in home folder.

So, this is not bug, just user (advanced beginer) error.

---

