---
title: "Splice Audio Files based on file name and user-inputted data"
date: 2009-05-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by charlie-foxtrot on 2009-05-28
I have a collection of sound files generated by a program that continuously records a VHF radio into a mp3 file. A few file is generated every 5 minutes. The  file names are in the following format:

frequency_ YYYY-MM-DD_hh.mm.ss.mp3

frequency - the six character frequency being recorded
yyyy - four digit year
mm - two digit month, zero added when necessary
dd - two digit day, zero added when necessary
hh - hour, 24-hour time
mm - two digit minute, zero added when necessary
ss - two digit second, zero added when necessary

What I'm looking to do is export a single mp3 file containing all audio recorded between two given times supplied by the user. This may span over several files, in which case the files would have to be spliced into one. The timestamp of the exported file should be the same as that of the first file, so it is possible to calculate when a transmission was made. 

Despite there being thousands of programs in the repositories, I can't find one that will do this. Is this something a bash script could accomplish? Is there a program that my searches haven't turned up? 

The computer making the recordings is a Windows XP machine, since that's the only place I could find recording software [Abyss Media Multi Channel Recording System]. The server where the files are stored is Ubuntu 9.04 server, so this seemed like a logical place to generate the extracted sound files, where they can be downloaded over SCP to yet another computer for analysis.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-05-28
I think it may be possible using **mp3wrap** but I'm not totally sure about that.  You can certainly join mp3s with no problem anmd can name the exported output file to whatever you want, so I suspect it may be possible to write a bash script file that would do exactly what you want.  Unfortunately my skills in doing that where there are a number of "if this, then do that" conditions need to be carried out, are pretty well non-existent.  At the very least you will be able to do it manually.

Just for the sake of completeness, if you don't know them, have a look also at **mp3splt** and **mp3gain**, both terrific at working on mp3s which I use a great deal after recording radio with **streamripper**.

---

### Post by charlie-foxtrot on 2009-05-29
Thank you for the advice. I've never written a script this complicated either, so I'll probably be over on the programming help boards over the next few weeks working this one out.

**mp3wrap** seems like it will do exactly what I need, so I just need to figure out a way to make a GUI instead of accessing the program from the command line. How did you find it? I searched the repositories, but nothing came up with my queries. I'd appreciate it if you would share the queries you used to find it.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-05-29
For 9.04 they are in the universe repositories, and I assume are there for other versions as well.  make sure you have them enabled in software sources, then reload all apps with sudo apt-get update or click the Reload icon in synaptic and you should find them.

Or perhaps you mean that you now have them, but wonder how I learned about them in the first place.  The answer to that, I think, is just pure luck, googling around for how to split mp3s, but I honestly can't really remember.  I just know that they are incredibly good, and are also very simple to use in the commandline, so don't be afraid.  The man pages are also quite simple to use and understand.

---

