---
title: "19.04 How to Clone User with LXQt"
date: 2019-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-11
I'm a relative newbie to Lubuntu and needed to create a new User identical to an existing one. Searching brought me no joy, or only partial help, but I had success in the end.
This is the recipe I used, hopefully it will help others as well. The " characters in this text are only for clarity, ignore them when doing the tasks.

In my case, I'm cloning user "joedoe" to "newbie".

From the menu, open "Preferences - LXQt Settings - Users and Groups"
Add User with login "newbie", full name "newbie", UID default, main group "newbie".
Choose "Advanced" and select your shell, I prefer bash.
Save, exit and set the password to "newbie" again.

Reboot and login to check that "newbie" actually works (the desktop is pretty empty with just 4 icons and perhaps a power management message top right).

Logout and login to your main (sudo enabled) account.

Open PCManFM and start a Root Instance ("Tool - Open as Root").
Go to "user/joedoe"
"Edit - Select All"
"Edit -Copy"
Go to "user/newbie"
"Edit - Paste", on errors click "Ignore"

All files are now copied, and you can close PCManFM if you like.

Open a Terminal (Ctrl-Alt-T) to set GID and UID.

**sudo chown -R newbie:newbie /home/newbie**

The last thing you have to do, is to modify/remove remnants of "joedoe" in your new user account.
Find them using this command, and change them accordingly:

**grep -ri 'joedoe' /home/newbie**

That's it, you now have  a clone of "joedoe" called "newbie" with own login, configuration etc.

I hope this was helpful.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-08-11
Cloning a user can mean multiple different things.  Reads like you really just want to copy the configuration from 1 userid to another, not really have a clone.

There are many different ways to accomplish something like this.  Another method, without all the point-n-click follows.

To me, cloning would be forcing the users to share the same groups and userid. It would be a security nightmare.  It is possible, btw. You could have them share the same HOME directories if you wanted or not. Only the login name and password would be different. Your choice.  Many admins use something like this to make backups without using root, but using a root-equiv account that can only be used to run the backup command (as configured by ssh authorized_hosts).

To copy the configuration, create a new userid ... how is unimportant. I'd use the **adduser newbie** command.
Then I'd copy everything from the HOME directory of the source user to the target HOME directory.
```
sudo rsync -avz ~joedoe/ ~newbie/
```
and finally, I'd chown everything in ~newbie to be owned by that userid.
```
sudo chown -r newbie:newbie ~newbie
```
Then logout and login using the newbie account.
No need to reboot, not for adding users. Just isn't needed.

Basically 3, easily scripted, easily repeatable, commands. Plus, no need to look for a GUI or do it differently for Gnome, KDE, LXqt, Mate, or on servers.

If you want to make a specific account have access to sudo, then just add that account to the sudo group.
```
sudo gpasswd -a newbie sudo 
```
If you have any terminals or the main GUI is using newbie account, just logout and login with the newbie userid again OR as newbie, use the **newgrp** command. I haven't tested this. If the new user can't sudo, the init system that reads the config file will need to be restarted. There are 3 different init options these days, so it might be easier to reboot for some less experienced folks or lazy people like me.  I would discourage adding more sudoer capable accounts and encourage using a non-sudo capable account most of the time, especially if you are comfortable with the *su - {userid}* commands.

Again, these work regardless of the DE/GUI being used and it should work for any Linux desktop or server from 2010 through to today, perhaps even older.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-12
Thanks for your feedback.
You're right, my objective was to create a new user with the same configuration as an existing one, so "clone" is probably not the right term, "duplicate" or "copy" might be better.

Also, I feel more safe with a GUI approach, as I've had several disasters using sudo with just enough knowledge to be dangerous. I felt comfortable with this approach.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-08-12
Clarity, if possible, is helpful.  Lots of different setups are possible. What is desired can be many different setups where *cloned*, *duplicated settings* or *everything duplicated* all might be desired.  Having multiple search terms is helpful for the next person. We never know how they will search.  We've all been there, searching, but not getting any of the same keywords posted by someone else.

Not directly related, but a few tips for userids.
[LIST]
[*] Don't mix case in the username.  In theory, it shouldn't matter, but nobody knows which programs anyone might load and it is easy for a programmer not to convert all usernames to lowercase for any comparisons everywhere in their code. The workaround to avoid issues is simple, only use lowercase letters in usernames.
[*] If you might have multiple Unix systems on the same network, then you probably will want to share storage between them using NFS.  Basically, every OS is Unix except MS-Windows, so NFS is useful for almost every other OS.  NFS is easier to work with if different usernames (thefu) and userids (1000) are unique across all the systems if they are for different humans.  If they are for the same human, then ensuring the username, userid and groupid are identical will make your life much easier.  When using NFS, those numbers for uid/userid and gid/groupid must match.  A little planning in the beginning makes this easy.
[*] groupnames should be all lowercase too for the same reason as usernames. Yes, in theory, it shouldn't matter, but ... theory and the real world often disagree.
[*] in Unix file systems, it is the number (uid/userid) that matters, not the username.  Only the number is stored with the file/directory metadata and the username/groupname are looked up based on the current system passwd and groups databases.  These lookups can be in the local files in /etc/ or through LDAP to a remote user management DB like LDAP or Active Directory.  Centralized username/userid management through LDAP will make NFS use really easy, but brings hassles of user management. To my knowledge, Ubuntu has completely ignored centralized user management and LDAP servers.  Redhat has build centralized, easier to use, LDAP tools (FreeIPA) which Ubuntu client machines can connect into.
[*] NFS is an important way to have user HOME directories available across multiple systems, especially when LDAP is used.  In a lab environment, using NFS for every user's HOME solves all sorts of issues.  It is especially important when users might sit behind different physical machines daily.
[*] NFS is really useful for media servers, since it streams much better than CIFS/Samba does.  Kodi has built-in support for NFS media storage, for example.
[/LIST]

Sorry if I've headed down a trail that many people don't care about, but enough people are putting media servers onto their LANs that a little advanced planning really can make things much, much, easier.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-12
@TheFu,
you're obviously an extremely experienced and knowledgeable *nix person, and I thank you for your insights.
Concerning your first bullet point: I've learned that the hard way a couple of times, and now stay lower-case :)
The other points are probably more for admins for networks systems, and perhaps not so relevant here.

I just wanted to show other greenhorns an easy way to add users with known configurations on a single machine, without getting into trouble.

Thanks.

PS: I value my Timeshift backup immensely for when I unknowingly create sudo-chaos :) Rsync is a very impressive package.

---

