---
title: "9.10 hangs and becomes unresponsive"
date: 2009-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by daggerx on 2009-11-02
My 9.10 on my T41 laptop freeze after a few minutes of inactivity. 

```
What am I doing?
```

Just casual surfing, xchat running, ubuntu one running and stuff.

```
Downloading anything/
```

Nope, just basic surfing (email check etc)

Does any one have a fix for this yet....considering going back to 9.04 if this keeps on happening...

---

### Post by alphaniner on 2009-11-02
Have you tried switching to a terminal (CTRL+ALT+F1)?  From there you could check your logs and maybe get an idea of what is causing the problem.

---

### Post by daggerx on 2009-11-02
No, can't say I've done that. I just find this very odd and trying to figure out who else is having this problem and what they have done to rectify it...thanks

---

### Post by GalacticOverlord on 2009-11-02
> **alphaniner said:**
> Have you tried switching to a terminal (CTRL+ALT+F1)?  From there you could check your logs and maybe get an idea of what is causing the problem.

I have this problem with my new system hanging for no apparent reason - I get no response when trying the terminal command. If I try the terminal command before hanging it asks me for a login and password, but I don't know what these are.
You may have noticed I'm a Ubuntu noob . . .

---

### Post by Kalex12 on 2009-11-02
I have similar problems but just with Firefox. The browser seems to just hang for a couple of minutes. then all is good again.

Ubuntu 64 9.10 
HP 8730 mobile workstation
4 gig ram
Nvidia Quadro

---

### Post by lukjad on 2009-11-02
> **daggerx said:**
> My 9.10 on my T41 laptop freeze after a few minutes of inactivity. 

```
What am I doing?
```

Just casual surfing, xchat running, ubuntu one running and stuff.

```
Downloading anything/
```

Nope, just basic surfing (email check etc)

Does any one have a fix for this yet....considering going back to 9.04 if this keeps on happening...
I usually wait a few months before upgrading. That way these problems usually have been taken care of.

---

### Post by daggerx on 2009-11-02
so does that mean that im out of luck...there is no fix for this right now?

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-02
Kinda hard to say without some more info. If it freezes, can you do anything at all? Does the mouse move? Can you switch to a tty using control alt F1 ? Does [REISUB]("http://kember.net/articles/231/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart") still allow you to reboot? Can you see anything relevant in /var/log/messages ?

---

### Post by daggerx on 2009-11-02
Cant do anything at all..one day i was scanning barcodes via the g1 and when i was trying one particular code, it would not scan (weird) so I tried to move the mouse and that would not move - tried the touchpad (nothing)  - I tried buttons combos and still nothing...I have to use the power button to get the machine back up and running again (for a short time obviously till it freezes again)

I can't do anything at all...which is why this is so strange...

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-11-02
> **daggerx said:**
> Cant do anything at all..one day i was scanning barcodes via the g1 and when i was trying one particular code, it would not scan (weird) so I tried to move the mouse and that would not move - tried the touchpad (nothing)  - I tried buttons combos and still nothing...I have to use the power button to get the machine back up and running again (for a short time obviously till it freezes again)

I can't do anything at all...which is why this is so strange...

Try the reisub key combo I linked above. It works even if your mouse and keyboard seem frozen. It only doesnt work if the kernel crashed. Of course that doesnt solve our issue but it would give us another data point and prevent damage to your filesystem by doing these hard power offs.

Also check or post /var/log/messages for events around the time of the freeze.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2009-11-02
> **lukjad007 said:**
> I usually wait a few months before upgrading. That way these problems usually have been taken care of.

/me installs , tests, and files bug reports for Lucid. That way these problems usually have been taken care of :twisted:

---

### Post by lukjad on 2009-11-02
> **bodhi.zazen said:**
> /me installs , tests, and files bug reports for Lucid. That way these problems usually have been taken care of :twisted:
Um, well. Thank you.

---

### Post by MiddleRiver on 2009-11-02
Same problem.  After I leave the computer idle for a short time it locks and becomes unresponsive.

Here are my specs so we can start building a case for an early update fixing the problem:

Dell Dimension 2400
2 gig ram
Firefox
Linksys wireless router
NetGear wireless card
WG111v2 wireless driver
Using Windows Wireless Driver admin utility
Used update manager regularly so I have all the updates as of 11/2/09

Let me know if you find the solution or if there are any tricks to getting a locked Ubuntu moving after it hangs.

Not going back to Windows no matter what so I am looking forward to this fix.  I would go back to 9.04 but I can't get my wireless working on it so even with the hang ups I am staying with Karmic.

---

### Post by NRDNick on 2009-11-02
Edit sorry for the double post, please see below

---

### Post by NRDNick on 2009-11-02
If you're running Nvidia drivers, have a look here [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8171854#post8171854]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8171854#post8171854") and try forcing your powermizer option to performance mode, either with the method described or simply by selecting the performance mode in the Nvidia-settings app. It has fixed my issues here, hopefully it'll help a few others as well.

---

### Post by GalacticOverlord on 2009-11-03
I can restart using the REISUB method, but can't get anything else to work.
I'm using it on a Dell Inspiron 6000.
Thinking about giving up to be honest, but will try the Nvidia fix just incase this is what my laptop has.
 
EDIT: This may not work for me after all - checking the specs online, my laptop has ATI MOBILITY RADEON X300 PCI Express.
 
I may have to give up on Ubuntu which seems a real shame unless anyone has any suggestions?

---

### Post by daggerx on 2009-11-03
so, so far i was on last night with no lockups...saw the logs and it had a clock error so i removed the cairo-dock and tested my mediatomb and so far so good...gonna turn on the ubuntu one cloud...and see if I get any lockups tonight...

---

### Post by NRDNick on 2009-11-05
Could you let us know what it was that solved your issue, so that others can try it. And if your issue is resolved please mark this thread as solved using the thread tools.

---

### Post by daggerx on 2009-11-05
once i removed the cairo-dock it didnt hang anymore...

---

### Post by NRDNick on 2009-11-06
Thanks for the response :)

---

