---
title: "14.04 Edit Login Menu"
date: 2015-07-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2015-07-25
Hello,

I recently installed the Kodi Web TV app and it added itself as an option to my login menu twice.  Obviously, I'd like to remove
one of these entries.  How do I edit the login menu in 14.04?  I tried User Accounts; but it doesn't show the Kodi entries.

Thanks, Hannibal

---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2015-07-26
Bump.

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2015-07-26
Don't know if this is the right way to do it.
I just create a folder named "hidden" in **/usr/share/xsessions** and move any sessions
I don't want shown at the greeter, into this folder.

---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2015-07-26
> **CantankRus said:**
> Don't know if this is the right way to do it.
I just create a folder named "hidden" in **/usr/share/xsessions** and move any sessions
I don't want shown at the greeter, into this folder.

It didn't work the way I was hoping.  There was only one copy of kodi.desktop in this folder.  When I moved it to hidden both kodi entries disappeared from the greeter.
When I tried to move it back it got the following error msg:

sophie@sophie-Inspiron-1545:~$ pwd
/home/sophie
sophie@sophie-Inspiron-1545:~$ cd /usr/share/xsessions
sophie@sophie-Inspiron-1545:/usr/share/xsessions$ cd hidden
sophie@sophie-Inspiron-1545:/usr/share/xsessions/hidden$ sudo mv kodi.desktop /xsessions
[sudo] password for sophie: 
mv: cannot stat ‘kodi.desktop’: No such file or directory
sophie@sophie-Inspiron-1545:/usr/share/xsessions/hidden$ sudo mv kodi.desktop /usr/share/xsessions
mv: cannot stat ‘kodi.desktop’: No such file or directory
sophie@sophie-Inspiron-1545:/usr/share/xsessions/hidden$ 

Is there a way to move this back?

Thanks, Hannibal

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2015-07-26
Check you have the right name.
```
ls /usr/share/xsessions/hidden
```

or use your file browser with root privileges.


P.S
This...
> /usr/share/xsessions/hidden$ sudo mv kodi.desktop [COLOR="#FF0000"]/xsessions[/COLOR]
would have moved kodi.desktop to the root of your drive and renamed the file xsessions

---

### Post by CantankRus on 2015-07-27
I just installed kodi to test.
The two files installed to /usr/share/xsessions are kodi.desktop and xbmc.desktop.
kodi was previously named xbmc.
The xbmc.desktop is just a link to kodi.desktop. Maybe included for upgrading compatibility.

In the file browser they both show up as kodi but ls shows real name...
```
**[COLOR="#006400"]glen@Trusty:~$[/COLOR] ls /usr/share/xsessions**
cairo-dock.desktop  gnome-fallback-compiz.desktop  hidden        openbox.desktop  [COLOR="#FF0000"]xbmc.desktop[/COLOR]
gnome.desktop       gnome-fallback.desktop         [COLOR="#FF0000"]kodi.desktop[/COLOR]  ubuntu.desktop   xfce.desktop
```

Move the xbmc.desktop file into **/usr/share/xsessions/hidden** or you could probably just delete it.

---

### Post by coljohnhannibalsmith on 2015-07-27
This worked like a charm.

Thanks, Hannibal

---

