---
title: "8.10 This should be simple, but why do programmers do it?"
date: 2009-06-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
I've installed several programs with GUI interfaces and all seemed to go well, until Danpei. Sure, I can use terminal and get Danpei to work, (using sudo danpei), but I can't get a simple icon to start the program. Do the writers of these programs not realize how they hurt Linux and Ubuntu in particular, when they don't make a program that is easy to install and use?

Instead of just installing a program and having it work when I click on the icon, I get to spend hours hunting for commands and trying to figure out something that should be just so simple. I've written DOS batch files and programs using XBasic and I wouldn't let anyone else have a copy unless I knew it worked and was easy to install. But this experience, is just really frustrating and an annoying waste of valuable time. 

If anyone out there know how to make the event of clicking on an icon, to actually start an already installed program, could you let me know the secret too? 

Thanks.

K.

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-06-09
Create a custom launcher and the command should be "sudo danpei" as you said. Done.

---

### Post by ddrichardson on 2009-06-09
Why the hell does an image viewer need super user access? Is it even in the repository?

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
> **Tipped OuT said:**
> Create a custom launcher and the command should be "sudo danpei" as you said. Done.

Good in theory. But in practice. Doesn't work for some reason. I've tried putting a launcher, ( Ubuntu / Linux name for what windows calls an icon, or a shortcut ), under Applications/Graphics with the command: sudo danpei
I also tried using the "Browse" button to go to usr/bin/danpei and thats what it put in as the command. Neither worked. 

When I select the launcher, it sounds like the hard drive is working to start the program, but then it stops and nothing happens. I'm just not that fond of Terminal, that I want to have to open it every time I want to start danpei and who knows what other programs that I might install in the future that could behave this way after installation. 

K.

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-06-09
Have you tried just using "danpei" as your command? You don't need to use sudo for things like that. If you have, I don't know then, sorry.

---

### Post by redbook4574 on 2009-06-09
> **StormDrain said:**
> Good in theory. But in practice. Doesn't work for some reason. I've tried putting a launcher, ( Ubuntu / Linux name for what windows calls an icon, or a shortcut ), under Applications/Graphics with the command: sudo danpei
I also tried using the "Browse" button to go to usr/bin/danpei and thats what it put in as the command. Neither worked. 

When I select the launcher, it sounds like the hard drive is working to start the program, but then it stops and nothing happens. I'm just not that fond of Terminal, that I want to have to open it every time I want to start danpei and who knows what other programs that I might install in the future that could behave this way after installation. 

K.


Just tried it myself and it works fine creates an icon with a gorilla face. 
Right click on main screen
create launcher
give it a name
in the line command type "danpei" (without quotes)

Note sudo not required unless you wish to run as root.

---

### Post by Eeqmcsq on 2009-06-09
> Do the writers of these programs not realize how they hurt Linux and Ubuntu in particular, when they don't make a program that is easy to install and use?

I'm not the author of danpei, but I am a programmer, so I have a few insights. Sometimes programmers are too busy with fixing bugs to worry about creating a user friendly installer, particularly if there's only 1 owner of an app. Sometimes programmers find that making something work is more fun than making something easy to use, particulary if the programmer is volunteering his time. Looking at the danpei page in sourceforge, it looks like the app was tested in slackware, redhat, plamo, etc, but not ubuntu. Perhaps the problem here is that there's no standard way to represent a desktop icon across all distributions. Just a few thoughts.

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
*> **redbook4574 said:**
> Just tried it myself and it works fine creates an icon with a gorilla face.            *CHECK .... Did that.
* Right click on main screen           *CHECK .... Did that.
* create launcher         *CHECK .... Did that.
* give it a name          *CHECK .... Did that. And I was nice about it.
* in the line command type "danpei" (without quotes)        *CHECK .... Did that.
[I]
Note sudo not required unless you wish to run as root.    [/I]Did that.... Twice. Both with and without sudo. .... Didn't work.

I thought I would add that I tried to create a bash script based on info on this page:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToAddaLauncher](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HowToAddaLauncher)
Then I changed the properties of the launcher to the script name. 
Still didn't work. 
But if I use terminal to  go to /usr/bin/ and type sudo startdanpei.save , (which I made executable), it starts danpei.

Like I needed to do "more" typing. 

K.

---

### Post by BUSHYBOB on 2009-06-09
How did you install Danpei?

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
> **Eeqmcsq said:**
> I'm not the author of danpei, but I am a programmer, so I have a few insights. Sometimes programmers are too busy with fixing bugs to worry about creating a user friendly installer, particularly if there's only 1 owner of an app.

Maybe I'm being hard on Linux programmers, deserved or not, but I just don't see people flocking to Ubuntu and sticking with it, if they have to spend a lot of valuable time with an operating system that has a rather steep learning curve. Small scale and home based businesses just can't afford to arbitrarily spend hours on some glitchy poorly conceived installer, or application. 

>  Sometimes programmers find that making something work is more fun than making something easy to use, particulary if the programmer is volunteering his time. Looking at the danpei page in sourceforge, it looks like the app was tested in slackware, redhat, plamo, etc, but not ubuntu. Perhaps the problem here is that there's no standard way to represent a desktop icon across all distributions. Just a few thoughts.

Thanks for the input.

No doubt all the effort that goes into the many many app's for Ubuntu and the other "flavors' of Linux, is and are, greatly appreciated. Likewise with the free support. But I do see room for improvement and I think part of that might be those who develop the programming software. 

It's been awhile since I used XBasic, but I do recall that there were wildcards that could be used to determine the operating system and in cases of developing software for Windows, where the default windows directory wasn't used, it could be detected and the program could work around the lack of a commonly used "main" directory. Maybe if I have time in the fall, I'll go back and have a look at whats happening with XBasic and see how it works with Ubuntu. 

K.

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
> **BUSHYBOB said:**
> How did you install Danpei?

Synaptic Package Manager.

K.

---

### Post by BUSHYBOB on 2009-06-09
> **StormDrain said:**
> Synaptic Package Manager.

K.

And it only runs if you type 'sudo danpei'?

---

### Post by blackxored on 2009-06-09
> **Eeqmcsq said:**
> I'm not the author of danpei, but I am a programmer, so I have a few insights. Sometimes programmers are too busy with fixing bugs to worry about creating a user friendly installer, particularly if there's only 1 owner of an app. Sometimes programmers find that making something work is more fun than making something easy to use, particulary if the programmer is volunteering his time. Looking at the danpei page in sourceforge, it looks like the app was tested in slackware, redhat, plamo, etc, but not ubuntu. Perhaps the problem here is that there's no standard way to represent a desktop icon across all distributions. Just a few thoughts.

Completely agree.
We programmers can't ever possibly test a piece of software against each operating system in the world, that's impossible and impractical. Although the are several standards in the OSC like the LSB, FHS, FDS, and the like; even there we may go into unknown situations. So, actually if you like that software, do the work yourself, and provide it upstreamer. I mean package the app, create the .desktop and menu files, and the like. Their job is programming and sometimes (maybe wrongly) assume you will be technically-able to use it properly.
BTW, your topic, create a launcher, associate the MIME file type with your app, and you're done. Don't blame us for nothing.

---

### Post by Celauran on 2009-06-09
Not sure what went wrong with your install. I just installed Danpei out of curiosity after seeing this thread and everything worked as it should. There was no entry in the Applications menu, but creating a launcher worked just fine. Can you elaborate some on what's happening when you say it doesn't work? Are there any errors being generated?

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
> **BUSHYBOB said:**
> And it only runs if you type 'sudo danpei'?

Correctomundo.

K.

---

### Post by BUSHYBOB on 2009-06-09
Could it be possible that you were logged in as root when you installed it?

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
> **Celauran said:**
> Not sure what went wrong with your install. I just installed Danpei out of curiosity after seeing this thread and everything worked as it should. There was no entry in the Applications menu, but creating a launcher worked just fine. Can you elaborate some on what's happening when you say it doesn't work? Are there any errors being generated?

No errors that I'm aware of. When I click on the launcher, there is a short flurry of activity from the hard drive, then nadda....

I don't know if it makes a difference, or not, but since I am and will continue to be the only user of this computer, I have it set to start up without a password and only use the password when in Terminal. I thought it might be a permissions thing, but I haven't had time to dive into Linux. 

I did notice that most of my other launchers for graphics programs, like Gimp, used the %U command, so I tried danpei %U ... It didn't work either.


K.

---

### Post by yoasif on 2009-06-09
I'm running karmic, and danpei seems to be uninstallable for me, so I can't see what the issue is. 

however, if no icon or menu entry appears in any of your menus for danpei, you may want to report that there is no .desktop file, or that it is not being packaged properly at launchpad. 

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/SupplementaryFiles#.desktop%20Files](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PackagingGuide/SupplementaryFiles#.desktop%20Files)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/danpei/+filebug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/danpei/+filebug)

either way, please report the bug (I can't, i'm working on tracking down why it's not installable in karmic), and it should be fixed.

Also, if it only runs as sudo, that is another issue, which should also be reported!

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
> **BUSHYBOB said:**
> Could it be possible that you were logged in as root when you installed it?

Everything I install, whether using Synaptic Package Manager, or Terminal, requires I use my password.

But then, everything else I installed that has a GUI, actually works without using Terminal.

K.

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-06-09
sudo wouldn't work in a launcher because it requires you to type your password in the terminal

```
gksu danpei
```
would be required

although you shouldn't need to use root permissions, have you tried reinstalling it?


with regard to easy installation. don't forget it is probably written by a small group of programmers, working for nothing, giving it away for free, if you like the program, perhaps you could volunteer to help improving the installer.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-06-09
> **Tipped OuT said:**
> Create a custom launcher and the command should be "sudo danpei" as you said. Done.

just thinknin' ... shouldn't it be gksu?
```
gksu danpei
```

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
> **benj1 said:**
> sudo wouldn't work in a launcher because it requires you to type your password in the terminal

```
gksu danpei
```would be required 

 Yeah!!! That worked.... kinda... The launcher starts danpei now, but only after stopping to ask for my password. Still easier than opening terminal and typing in the command, but strange if you ask me.
although you shouldn't need to use root permissions, 

>  have you tried reinstalling it?I've been too busy using it. I have hundreds of digital pictures to rename and I didn't want to take the chance of it getting messed up even worse. In a week or so, when I have time to clear off another hard drive to install the new version of Ubuntu, then I can play around with it.

>  with regard to easy installation. don't forget it is probably written by a small group of programmers, working for nothing, giving it away for free, if you like the program, perhaps you could volunteer to help improving the installer.I've worked on my own programs in virtual obscurity, but I was happy to make programs that worked, even if it was only in dos. The particular type of program I was focusing on, didn't need a gui and I was running it under Win98, so it didn't need to be fancy, just good. I still have the source code around here on one of my hard drives, so maybe I'll see what I can do as time permits, but its going to be a busy summer here. Hard to focus on programming, or anything else, when your only 200 feet from the beach in a small town tourist trap with lots of slender bikini clad babes around. (Should I have mentioned that?) :D

K.

---

### Post by benj1 on 2009-06-09
> **StormDrain said:**
>  Hard to focus on programming, or anything else, when your only 200 feet from the beach in a small town tourist trap with lots of slender bikini clad babes around. (Should I have mentioned that?) :D

K.

i can see how that would be a problem :)

---

### Post by Eeqmcsq on 2009-06-09
> Maybe I'm being hard on Linux programmers, deserved or not, but I just don't see people flocking to Ubuntu and sticking with it, if they have to spend a lot of valuable time with an operating system that has a rather steep learning curve. Small scale and home based businesses just can't afford to arbitrarily spend hours on some glitchy poorly conceived installer, or application.

And you are absolutely correct, because I feel the same way about the learning curve and effort required for some of the various Linux apps or commands line utilities I've encountered. The real general problem isn't programmers themselves, but the lack of commercial companies making Linux apps. These commercial companies are the ones that have the resources to have a UX team, an installer team, a customer support team, etc, to produce easy to use software. And they are the ones that HAVE to build usable software, and HAVE to reduce the learning curve, because they HAVE to compete to survive.

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-09
> **Eeqmcsq said:**
> And you are absolutely correct, because I feel the same way about the learning curve and effort required for some of the various Linux apps or commands line utilities I've encountered. The real general problem isn't programmers themselves, but the lack of commercial companies making Linux apps. These commercial companies are the ones that have the resources to have a UX team, an installer team, a customer support team, etc, to produce easy to use software. And they are the ones that HAVE to build usable software, and HAVE to reduce the learning curve, because they HAVE to compete to survive.


There once was a tongue in cheek comment made by a M$ supporter, that isn't as outlandish as it initially seems. The comment was: 
"There currently exists an universal software installer that works equally well on any and all GNU/ distro's. Ironically it is the Microsoft installer that is used within, and a part of Wine."
(Copied from: [http://blogs.computerworld.com/linux_software_installation_myths](http://blogs.computerworld.com/linux_software_installation_myths) )

It might just be me, but I actually see some logic in using a stable fixed platform, (I'm referring to Wine), as a base for using installers that would detect the particular flavor of Linux being used and adjust an installation package accordingly. Just a thought. Why remake the wheel though, when there are already Linux installers that people either don't use, or don't use properly?

I ran across some on sourceforge, like: 
*GUInseng, a software installer for Linux based on GTK+ and Glade.
*Build Installer, to make installing software from source easier and faster for end users, particularly non-developers.
And a few hundred other similar programs.

But in the end, it isn't just the programmers installer package that caused danpei to not include a launcher, (well maybe just a little bit), or to cause my danpei to require a password now before I can use it. Somewhere, it should have been noticed that this was a gui program that didn't install properly. Maybe in the new Ubuntu this problem will have been corrected.

As for businesses taking up the slack to ensure higher standards in application development and quality control, I can't say I agree 100%. I know there are teams of developers out there that just lack self disipline and before they put out another version update, or new app, they really should have someone, or something reveiw it, (perhaps a diagnostic software app that could detect common problems before the user does). 

Back around 1994, I started taking my first formal programming class and it was sad. Bad teachers and study groups in people basement, that thought they could put out good code while passing around illicit smoking material. ;) These people couldn't flowchart their way though to the washroom, let alone through an enterprise wide app. 

Anyway, thats my rants for this session and if anyone figures out a non-invasive method of getting my danpei to start up without having to use a password, please share.

K.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-06-09
> **StormDrain said:**
> I've installed several programs with GUI interfaces and all seemed to go well, until Danpei. Sure, I can use terminal and get Danpei to work, (using sudo danpei), but I can't get a simple icon to start the program. Do the writers of these programs not realize how they hurt Linux and Ubuntu in particular, when they don't make a program that is easy to install and use?

Instead of just installing a program and having it work when I click on the icon, I get to spend hours hunting for commands and trying to figure out something that should be just so simple.
.........


"Hours"?, just go into Synaptic and it will tell you in seconds where the installed files for any package are, and for danpei it lists /usr/bin/danpei.

This package looks like it was created for an old Debian distro and does not put a Menu entry in the structure that Ubuntu has. You can still easily create a Launcher with the simple command "danpei", that works on my system.

---

### Post by Tipped OuT on 2009-06-10
> **doas777 said:**
> just thinknin' ... shouldn't it be gksu?
```
gksu danpei
```

Re-read my post, I said "as you said" meaning, that was what the OP said the command was. Don't go asking me this, ask him.

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-06-10
> **Tipped OuT said:**
> Re-read my post, I said "as you said" meaning, that was what the OP said the command was. Don't go asking me this, ask him.

sorry for the confusion. i was not asking you per se; your post just had the most straight forward lead in to my observation. not a criticism. sorry again if i offended.

---

### Post by StormDrain on 2009-06-10
> **dcstar said:**
> "Hours"?, just go into Synaptic and it will tell you in seconds where the installed files for any package are, and for danpei it lists /usr/bin/danpei.


I suppose if I had used Linux command line and knew the in's and out's of its file system before, it would be a simple fix. 

> 
This package looks like it was created for an old Debian distro and does not put a Menu entry in the structure that Ubuntu has. You can still easily create a Launcher with the simple command "danpei", that works on my system.

Now I know that. But, it still doesn't work with the danpei command on my installation. I don't know why, it just doesn't. The only thing that works is to use the command: 
gksu danpei
And as I said, after I click on the launcher, it does the fade to grey thing and the input password box thingy pops up.

K.

---

