---
title: "10.04 - can't hear mic except when playing back recording of mic"
date: 2010-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by meonkeys on 2010-05-31
I'm trying to record audio from an external keyboard, but I can't hear what I'm playing. The keyboard stereo analog headphone jack is connected to my laptop mic input jack via a small headphone-to-headphone cable. If I record in either audacity or gnome-sound-recorder, I **can** playback the recording, and it sounds fine.

I've tried messing with pavucontrol, alsamixer, gnome-volume-control, rebooting, deleting ~/.pulse, rebooting again.

Skype calls work fine, either using the built-in mic & speakers or a USB headset.

I'm using Ubuntu 10.04 on a Dell Latitude E6400 laptop. AlsaMixer says card: "HDA Intel" and chip: "Intel G45 DEVCTG".

One other bit of information: in pavucontrol -> Input Devices, I can choose "Show: All Input Devices", and I see

[LIST=1]
[*]Internal Audio Analog Stereo
[*]Monitor of Internal Audio Analog Stereo
[/LIST]
The meter on the first one moves when I play my keyboard, but the "Monitor" meter never moves.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-05-31
> **meonkeys said:**
> I can't hear what I'm playing.

I guess this is disabled to prevent feedback squeals. I think there used to be a "Loop" option somewhere obvious, but not anymore...

Install package paprefs, the Pulse Audio gtk preferences tool. Under multicast/RTP you need to enable whatever is needed to get Send Audio from Local Microphone enabled, and probably Loop Back Audio to Local Speakers.

Or leave to an application to loop - Rakarrack will process the audio and feed it to local speakers, Audacity has a "Software playthrough" monitoring option.

---

### Post by meonkeys on 2010-05-31
> **StuartN said:**
> Audacity has a "Software playthrough" monitoring option.

Brilliant! Thank you, that's exactly what I needed.

I'm not usually one for emoticons, but this seems appropriate:

:guitar:

---

### Post by ttbek on 2010-06-04
StuartN: I'm having a similar problem to meonkeys, but the software playthrough in audacity only does so while recording and I actually want to play audio from another source through the comp to the speakers, which worked flawlessly with 9.10.  I tried your other solution (paprefs) and it sort of works, but it stutters all the time, like a poorly buffered video.  This stuttering doesn't occur on recording from Audacity or the playthrough while recording.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-06-04
> **ttbek said:**
> I actually want to play audio from another source through the comp to the speakers, which worked flawlessly with 9.10.

Yes, I recall an option to mix the line-in / mic previously, but it is not there now, with Pulse audio. Do you have the Pulse Audio Volume Control installed, and does it have any input enable or mix settings? (Mine does not). I must learn how to configure Pulse sometime ([https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PulseAudio](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/PulseAudio) looks useful as a start).

The simplest workaround is to install an application like Rakarrack that processes the mic and feeds it to the speakers, with all the processing switched off.

I installed the Pulse Audio Device Chooser (padevchooser) in addition to the volume control (pavucontrol), which gives some neat per-source, per-sink vu-meters, and it shows that my internal audio monitor (which is fed to the mix) is not actually monitoring my internal audio.

The command **pactl load-module module-loopback** enables monitoring, with latency (rakarrack was better).

---

### Post by meonkeys on 2010-06-05
Audacity software playthrough sounded ok at first, but when I listened to the recording, the timing was way off.

**```
pactl load-module module-loopback latency_msec=1
```** worked great, thank you! It had a slight delay at first, but somehow that fixed itself and recording with audacity (including "overdub") works.

See also:
[LIST]
[*][karmic pulseaudio line-in to analog-out]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1324135")
[*][how do I listen to audio input through the speakers]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1373692")
[/LIST]

---

### Post by ttbek on 2010-06-09
Hey guys, the loopback module, even with the latency set to 1 msec still has a delay of about a second on my system, which is more than up for any sort of processing (3.2 Ghz quad core, 8 Gigs ram), so I think it's a bug. Also I found a bug report for it, 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/566381?comments=all](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/pulseaudio/+bug/566381?comments=all)

The latency is still too much for gaming so I tried Rakarrack, but on starting it throws an error, "Cannot make a jack client, is jackd running?"  so I'm not sure if perhaps in trying to fix this I've screwed up something else... but I think something like this really should be working at the base OS level, so hopefully some action is taken on that bug report.  I'll be happy if just the command line works, then at least we could do it even if it isn't added to the gui.  Though I guess the loopback works fine for just audio, but not so much for anything that needs to be synced.  Thanks for the help, let me know if there are further developments or if you know what the Rakarrack error is about.

---

### Post by StuartN on 2010-06-09
> **ttbek said:**
> so I tried Rakarrack, but on starting it throws an error, "Cannot make a jack client, is jackd running?"

Rakarrack happened to give good enough latency for me, but try another lightweight recording or performance application, perhaps Audacity. Even a heavyweight like Ardour, if it gets the result you want.

It does seem that real-time audio has not been considered too carefully in the move to Pulse.

The best solution of all is to use external hardware monitoring - for instance to feed the mic/line in and line out through the 2-channel feeds of a small mixer. It is one more piece of hardware, but it will work for life.

---

### Post by ttbek on 2010-06-09
I don't know, I feel something like this is a must have, Ubuntu has failed me on this one, it's just not something that there is a good excuse to not have, especially on a long term release.  A mixer isn't really needed for my purpose, a simple splitter works just fine, oh well, thanks for all the help though.

---

### Post by Bungo Pony on 2010-09-06
> **StuartN said:**
> 
The command **pactl load-module module-loopback** enables monitoring, with latency (rakarrack was better).

Wow, that's retarded. Never had to do that with 8.04. Took me about an hour to find the answer for something that really should be built into Pulse Audio. Thank you!!!

---

### Post by killmess on 2010-11-26
I Solved this, this way:

_Install "gnome-alsamixer", and "pavucontrol"(the Pulseaudio Volume Control)
_in alsamixer:
_Edit-Sound Card Properties
_enable everything and close.
_down, tick the following: mic boost, analog capture boost, and whatever boost you may find.
_In Pulseaudio Volume Control:
_go to configuration
_In the dropdown menu, try differents profiles until you hear the sound of the mic. You should hear sound clearly; 

In my Audigy 2 value, if I don't make noise I hear a soft white sound. And the last options(the "profile" in Pulseaudio Volume Control) are: 

"Analog Stereo Output + Analog Mono Input."

Hope this serves, bye KM :)
:popcorn:

---

### Post by tuxonapogostick on 2011-07-16
> **StuartN said:**
> I guess this is disabled to prevent feedback squeals. I think there used to be a "Loop" option somewhere obvious, but not anymore...

Install package paprefs, the Pulse Audio gtk preferences tool. Under multicast/RTP you need to enable whatever is needed to get Send Audio from Local Microphone enabled, and probably Loop Back Audio to Local Speakers.

Or leave to an application to loop - Rakarrack will process the audio and feed it to local speakers, Audacity has a "Software playthrough" monitoring option.
paprefs didn't really work for me. It looped the mic in back to output, however, with a huge latency.

---

### Post by tuxonapogostick on 2011-07-16
> **ttbek said:**
> I don't know, I feel something like this is a must have, Ubuntu has failed me on this one, it's just not something that there is a good excuse to not have, especially on a long term release.  A mixer isn't really needed for my purpose, a simple splitter works just fine, oh well, thanks for all the help though.
I totally agree!

---

