---
title: "Feisty's Xorg eating up near-100% CPU for trivial tasks"
date: 2007-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Warbo on 2007-04-24
I just upgraded to Feisty, and after sorting out a kernel panic I thought I was fine, but now it seems that Xorg is taking up around 95% CPU just to do pretty trivial things like move windows, move chat window text up in GAIM, etc. The performance is terrible, I would class it as bad for an emulator, let alone a native install.

I am not running Compiz or Beryl, just E16 in GNOME. My laptop is a Dell Inspiron 1501 with a Radeon Xpress 200M using the Radeon driver. I know there is no 3D support for this setup, but at least on Edgy I could do things in 2D.

Is anybody having similar problems, or know a work around (besides living in a console)?

Thanks in advance
Chris Warburton

---

### Post by walmartshopper67 on 2007-04-24
Yeah, i'm having the exact same problem - but with an Nvidia 5200 graphics card, AMD Sempron 3100+ and 630 MB of ram. I'm working on it, whats funny though is i DIDNT have this problem with the last feisty test release. I'll post here if i figure it out.

---

### Post by walmartshopper67 on 2007-04-24
Ok - i've got mine sorted out (as far as i know, for now). 

Now, of course YMMV - but for me it was the "composite" extension in /etc/X11/xorg.conf 

I don't know for sure, but it seems that turning this option on allows the system to use the graphics card RAM instead of sharing the system RAM. I may be wrong, but this is what it SEEMS to do on mine, because my RAM usage dropped by more than half and the cpu load seems to be behaving.

So, all I did was change this in /etc/xorg.conf

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "disable"
EndSection

---to this:

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "enable"
EndSection

I hope that helps, it makes sense. let me know and good luck:)

---

### Post by Warbo on 2007-05-01
Well, I am using Composite anyway so no luck there :( I have been informed that it is probably the HAL daemon going crazy and polling IDE like a mad man. I'll try disabling HAL and hope my system speeds up. At the moment I'm thinking I should have stuck with Edgy, since the new features of Feisty aren't particularly appealing to me (I had already installed KVM in Edgy anyway).

---

### Post by realn on 2007-05-08
Well, I had huge CPU usage from xorg (1 processor used at 90%) while playing movies with mplayer. I solved the issue by doing the exact opposite thing : i DISABLED the composite option.

---

### Post by mikeklemz on 2007-05-08
walmartshopper67:  Can you please post more of your xorg.conf?  I have composite enabled, along with a lot of other stuff and I was just hoping to compare.  Thanks.

---

### Post by hhemken on 2007-05-16
I had Xorg eating >20% cpu immediately after boot/login. Enabling the Composite option appears to have fixed it.

Thanks walmartshopper67!

---

### Post by walmartshopper67 on 2007-05-17
Sorry it took me so long to reply - it's finals week up here at RIT and it's brutal I posted my xorg on my web server :[http://ghettonet.no-ip.org/~redneckpunk/xorg.txt](http://ghettonet.no-ip.org/~redneckpunk/xorg.txt) if you would still like to see it. 

Thanks:)

---

### Post by pather on 2008-01-17
I'm having the same here. Othervise everything allright, but when playing video file with xine, xorg uses up to 90% of CPU. I've got Athlon64 3200+, so I don't think my CPU is slow for playing avi files :)
On the other hand, I use ATI X1650XT. There has been many problems with ATI drivers, but latest I use (7.12) seems OK to me. Acceleration is working perfectly, but this issue.

here is my fgl_glxgears output

pather@area51:~$ fgl_glxgears
Using GLX_SGIX_pbuffer
7213 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1442.600 FPS
8202 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1640.400 FPS
8101 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1620.200 FPS
8225 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1645.000 FPS
8107 frames in 5.0 seconds = 1621.400 FPS

I've tried enabling the composite extension, but nothing has changed...

my xorg.conf

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
  Identifier "Default Layout"
  screen 0 "aticonfig Screen 0" 0 0
  screen 1 "aticonfig Screen 1" rightof "aticonfig Screen 0"
  InputDevice "Generic Keyboard"
  InputDevice "Configured Mouse"
  InputDevice "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
  InputDevice "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
  InputDevice "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
  option "Xinerama" "off"
  option "Clone" "off"
EndSection

Section "Files"
  
  # path to defoma fonts
  FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
  FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
  FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
  FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
  FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
  FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
  FontPath "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
  FontPath "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
  Load "i2c"
  Load "bitmap"
  Load "ddc"
  Load "extmod"
  Load "freetype"
  Load "int10"
  Load "vbe"
  load "glx"
  load "GLcore"
  load "v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "Generic Keyboard"
  Driver "kbd"
  option "CoreKeyboard"
  option "XkbRules" "xorg"
  option "XkbModel" "pc105"
  option "XkbLayout" "cz"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "Configured Mouse"
  Driver "mouse"
  option "CorePointer"
  option "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
  option "Protocol" "ImPS/2"
  option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
  option "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "stylus"
  Driver "wacom"
  option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
  option "Type" "stylus"
  option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "eraser"
  Driver "wacom"
  option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
  option "Type" "eraser"
  option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Identifier "cursor"
  Driver "wacom"
  option "Device" "/dev/input/wacom"
  option "Type" "cursor"
  option "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  identifier "aticonfig Monitor 0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
  identifier "aticonfig Monitor 1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
  identifier "ATI Graphics Adapter 0"
  boardname "ati"
  busid "PCI:4:0:0"
  driver "fglrx"
#  screen 0
EndSection

Section "Device"
  identifier "ATI Graphics Adapter 1"
  boardname "ati"
  busid "PCI:4:0:0"
  driver "fglrx"
  screen 1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  Identifier "aticonfig Screen 1"
  Device "ATI Graphics Adapter 1"
  Monitor "aticonfig Monitor 1"
  DefaultDepth 24
  SubSection "Display"
    Viewport 0 0
    Depth 24
    Modes "1280x1024@60"
  EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
  Identifier "aticonfig Screen 0"
  Device "ATI Graphics Adapter 0"
  Monitor "aticonfig Monitor 0"
  DefaultDepth 24
  SubSection "Display"
    Viewport 0 0
    Depth 24
    Modes "1360x768@60"  
  EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
  Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
  option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


if anyone have a tip, i would be grateful :)

---

