---
title: "[SOLVED] &amp;quot;Permissions can't be determined&amp;quot; - NTFS partition"
date: 2008-07-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by treggmo on 2008-07-30
Hey,

My ntfs partition is automounted by ntfs-config and I can read/write to it but programs like k3b do not see it even if I try to add it to k3b>Settings>Configure>Devices. I have searched and read many posts and changed fstab from /dev/sda7 to the drive's UUID successfully but the Permissions tab still says "The Permissions of ntfsstorage could not be determined." In k3b>Settings>Configure>Devices it says that if a drive is not detected you need to modify it's permissions. Obviously that can't be done.

My fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=640696c4-1721-463a-b14e-c6d60831f133 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=a70ac1d7-d021-4237-8491-feb58fd86ee5 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
UUID=26FB0FBE5448C3DE /media/ntfsstorage ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

/media/ntfsstorage is the drive. Can a umask, gid be added to a line controlled by ntfs-config to give it the proper permissions? If so, I need to know the values to enter so it is read/write but not accessible over a network.
Or is this an ownership problem?

Thanks, treggmo

---

### Post by silkstone on 2008-07-30
As far as I know, NTFS and FAT32 filesystems do not support permissions, so you cannot change them! They will normally show as being owned by root, but I think that really means 'no ownership' in this case.

You will probably need to add or edit a line in fstab, but since I have little experience with NTFS drives on Linux it would be better if someone else could give detailed instructions.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-30
ntfs and fat permissions are established on mounting. You can add this to fstab:

```

UUID=26FB0FBE5448C3DE /media/ntfsstorage ntfs-3g auto,users,uid=1000,gid=100,utf8,dmask=027,fmask=137 0 0
```

Then run (disregard the busy messages):
```
sudo umount -a
sudo mount -a
```

Note: the dmask and fmask entries are preferable to umask in that they can set different privileges on the folders and files, which umask cannot do. Ask a geek for an explanation. ;-)

See the tutorial in the link below for a gui-based fstab configuration tool.

---

### Post by silkstone on 2008-07-30
That looks like a very useful tutorial. Thank you.

---

### Post by treggmo on 2008-07-31
Thanks drs305 and silkstone.
I got back as soon as I could after researching and making changes.
I made the changes to fstab, very nice tutorial. kb3 and k9copy still refuse to recognize the ntfs partition. There was not enough space in my home folder to backup videos so I took some from my XP partition and solved that problem. Brasero and the native CD/DVD player see the partition so the other programs aren't set up to do that as far as I can tell.
Thanks again,
trg

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-31
> **treggmo said:**
> Thanks drs305 and silkstone.
I got back as soon as I could after researching and making changes.
I made the changes to fstab, very nice tutorial. kb3 and k9copy still refuse to recognize the ntfs partition. 

If you mean k3b could not find it, go to the navigation section. It won't be listed under Media. It mounts under root, so look in Root, then media and you may find ntfsstorage.

---

### Post by treggmo on 2008-07-31
drs305,
Live and learn! Both programs list the drive under root>media. I've been playing with Ubuntu for two years and never knew that. Thanks for reading between the lines and pointing me to the answer.

Happily Hardy-har-ing again,
treggmo

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-07-31
Glad to have helped. Would you please mark this SOLVED with the Thread Tools link at the top right of the first post. Thanks.

---

