---
title: ".sh file problem?"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kittenpants on 2008-11-14
I am at a university which requires you to install this CSA.sh file (Client Security Agent is the name of the program) in order to grant you internet access.  However, when I try to run it, it comes back with an error message and the .sh file disappears off my computer completely. :(  How can I fix this?

---

### Post by kellemes on 2008-11-14
> **kittenpants said:**
> I am at a university which requires you to install this CSA.sh file (Client Security Agent is the name of the program) in order to grant you internet access.  However, when I try to run it, it comes back with an error message and the .sh file disappears off my computer completely. :(  How can I fix this?

What error message?

---

### Post by kittenpants on 2008-11-14
In terminal I get this:
mkdir: cannot create directory `.CSA.TEMP': File exists
awk cannot open /home/kat///home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh (No such file or directory)
tail: +: invalid number of lines
gzip: stdin: unexpected end of file
tar: This does not look like a tar archive
tar: Error exit delayed from previous errors
chmod: cannot access `./engine': No such file or directory
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 11: ./engine: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 12: function: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 18: mozilla: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 18: mozilla: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 19: function: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 25: netscape: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 25: netscape: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 26: function: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 30: function: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 33: epiphany: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 34: function: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 37: konqueror: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 38: function: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 46: seamonkey: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 46: seamonkey: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 47: function: Not found
/home/kat/Desktop/CSA.sh: 50: opera: Not found
Error running CSA.sh.  Please call the helpdesk.
rm: cannot remove `engine': No such file or directory
rm: cannot remove `agent.config': No such file or directory
rm: cannot remove `tmp.csa': No such file or directory


In Firefox, I get "Firefox can't find the file at /home/kat/Desktop/CSA.TEMP/results.html

---

### Post by geirha on 2008-11-14
How are you running it? and what is the first line of the script?
```
head -1 ~/Desktop/CSA.sh
```

It looks like a badly written script.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-14
There are couple of other threads dealing with the same problem. Have a look here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=813265](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=813265)

and here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=398689](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=398689)

Jim

---

