---
title: ".NET Core issue"
date: 2020-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bendanna93 on 2020-04-24
I'm trying to get the latest SDK for 20.04 and I've come across a series of issues, though I believe I've boiled it down to what is the core problem. When I try to run the following code...

[I]sudo apt-get install dotnet-runtime-deps-3.1

[/I]I get the following message...

*Reading package lists... Done*
*Building dependency tree       *
*Reading state information... Done*
*Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have*
*requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable*
*distribution that some required packages have not yet been created*
*or been moved out of Incoming.*
*The following information may help to resolve the situation:*

*The following packages have unmet dependencies:*
* dotnet-runtime-deps-3.1 : Depends: libicu but it is not installable or*
*                                    libicu63 but it is not installable or*
*                                    libicu60 but it is not installable or*
*                                    libicu57 but it is not installable or*
*                                    libicu55 but it is not installable or*
*                                    libicu52 but it is not installable*
*E: Unable to correct problems, you have held broken packages. *

Thing is I have libicu66, and it seems to not be recognized by *dotnet-runtime-deps-3.1. Why could this be?*

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2020-04-25
I think you may find that you are indeed the world's only Linux user of .Net Core.  A sad, lonely voice crying in the desert...

You should try a Microsoft Technet forum for .Net, it may be slightly less lonely there.

---

### Post by bendanna93 on 2020-04-25
Really? But then why does .Net support exist at all on Ubuntu? There is apparently support for C#, so what's the deal there? I can definitely go back to Windows to do that, I was just curious.

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2020-04-25
Looks like you are a wee bit early: [https://github.com/dotnet/core/issues/4360](https://github.com/dotnet/core/issues/4360)

---

### Post by bendanna93 on 2020-04-25
Guess I better stick to Windows for that then for now :D

---

