---
title: "7.10 here, problems with updating"
date: 2007-10-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by geodeath on 2007-10-06
Hello all!
I installed 7.10 the other day. I followed every update ever since as soon as it became available.
After yesterday's updates, my system crashed at random points for no reason at all. No mouse movement, no caps lock nothing. So i thought that it was a fault of the updates.
Its been an hour now since the latest updates are available. I wasnt even able to update with the crashes happening all the time so i went into an xterm session to be able to update (lol).

Now, during the update, it asked me if i wanted to keep or not my linux-restricted-modules-common file and after backing it up i said yes.
After rebooting, i noticed there were now 2 options to boot instead of 1.
kernel x.xx.x.13 along with x.xx.x.12.

I am not able to boot into the 13 version cause i get no x server at all. That was my problem with the 12 version too, until i managed to install my ati 2900 xt driver manually AND add the fglrx into the restricted modules file (so it doesnt load the built in instead of the manually installed one).

However, after moving my linux-restricted file back to the /etc/default location, i STILL cannot get an X server using the kernel *.13 version. All i get is a black screen and when i shutdown the server with Ctrl + Alt + Backspace i can see a window for a split second before the console finally appears.

What should i do?
Should i install my driver manually again for the new kernel? Should i configure X again for the new kernel?
sorry for newbism but is there a reason to keep both versions at boot selection?

george:guitar:

---

