---
title: "Boot problem after using Bleachbit."
date: 2015-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kenobi21 on 2015-11-16
Ubuntu 15.04
System kept running out of disk space, so I tried using bleachbit to clean it up so that I could update.

Thought I was just removing junk as well as one old image file... thought it was safe.
I was wrong!

Next time I tried to boot computer, i was done.
Keyboard seems unresponsive during POST and subsequent Grub.

Grub looks different, seems to be missing something
Next screen goes black with messages over entire screen that I don't understand.

Tried 'Boot Repair' to fix the problem.
Didn't work.
Here is the file generated by that program...
[http://paste.ubuntu.com/13298653/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/13298653/)

I need HELP!
This is beyond my knowledge.

At this point I'm thinking a fresh install is my only hope.
Don't want to lose all my settings, etc though (whole family is on there).

Backed up HOME file, but don't know if that is enough???
What a NEWB I am, eh?

Just to be clear....
I am not against re-install or upping to latest Ubuntu 15.10

If having backed up the HOME file is sufficient enough to have saved everyone's essential information and settings, then that is probably the path I should take.

I'm open to anyone's insights on that!
Thanks again.

---

### Post by howefield on 2015-11-16
Your /boot is filled up with older kernels which is giving rise to the out of space errors you were getting. Running..

```
sudo apt-get autoremove
```

*should* be enough to keep the kernels in check and keep only the most current 2 kernels.

If it were mine, I'd probably take the opportunity to reinstall with 15.10 as 15.04 goes end of life in January anyway :) 

Incidentally, reinstalling over the current partitions (not marking for formatting at the partitioning stage) should leave your /home intact.

---

