---
title: "8.04 LTS vs. 9.10"
date: 2010-02-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dracona on 2010-02-21
I consider myself as a newb when it comes to linux. while i have dabbled with linux over the past several years, i have never really committed myself to linux 100% until a couple months ago. I have used nearly every version of windows from pre win 95 ( forgot the name of it ) up to vista, with xp pro being my most favorite windows to use.  I will admit, that the version of vista i used was a pirated copy ( i know i will take some heat for that admission, but the truth ill set you free, or on fire ).

ok sry got off topic, my question here is, Is 8.04LTS better then 9.10?
I am a gamer at heart, which is mainly why i ran windows for so long, the other part is, i do not know a lot about linux, i know enough about linux to install do some minor config, and i have the unique  ability to hose my system without even trying.  I currently am running 9.10 64bit, i am very happy with it, i love tinkering with it, which is mainly why/how i am able to hose my system.
damn off topic again, sry. which is better 8.04 lts or 9.10? 

do not have windows installed on any of my systems ( 2 ) and both systems run 9.10 64bit.

---

### Post by bpalone on 2010-02-21
Either way, either is just an OS.  If 9.10 is working for you stay with it.  I personally like the LTS releases for stability reasons and I don't like upgrading every time I turn around.  There is going to be a new LTS coming very shortly, so if you are inclined to go to LTS versions I would just wait until it is out and been available for a few weeks, then make the move.

I haven't decided if I'm going to wait for the LTS after this one or upgrade.  I'm guessing it will wait until support is pulled and then upgrade.  If ain't broke, don't fix it.

These are mainly just my opinions and worth just exactly what you paid for them.

Oh, yea.  Welcome to the Linux fold.

---

### Post by Iowan on 2010-02-21
Better is in the eye of the beholder. Like wine, a release seems to mellow with age - I wasn't fond of Hardy (8.04) when it came out. The "new" Network Manager seemed a source of problems. Intrepid made Hardy look better. Jaunty installed on my laptop without many problems. I have a Karmic box - it doesn't see much use (only when I need to check something for a question). It will likely become Lucid in 3-6 months. If Karmic is working for you, use it. Each release seems to add drivers and support (albeit an occasional new problem). I like to keep a working machine - just in case I need to post a problem with a new install, etc. If you opt to downgrade to 8.04, I'd try it on one machine - compare the two, and decide which I beheld as better.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-02-21
The release number tells you everything you need to know. 

9.10 = October 2009. Best choice if you want the latest applications.

8.04 = April 2008. Best choice if you want 2-year-old applications that have been thoroughly tested and are known to be stable.

---

### Post by Dracona on 2010-02-21
thanks for your opinions, 9.10 is working pretty good for me, so with that in mind i probably wont be downgrading, but one never knows. i might try 8.04 in a VB an give it a  whirl
Thanks again
Dracona

---

