---
title: "Resolution Issues"
date: 2008-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Toribor on 2008-05-23
I've read all over about this and I'm finding a lot of people with similar problems but none of the fixes I've read seem to work.

Here are my particular circumstances:

Dell XPSM1210 (laptop) with a 1280x800 native resolution (integrated Intel 945gm graphics controller) but I'm using this like it is docked and I have a dell monitor with a native resolution of 1280x1024. However, when I disable the laptop display and use only the external display I cannot set the resolution to 1280x1024. I've tried editing xorg.conf in /etc/X11/ a hundred different ways with no changes. The last changes I made erased everything that made sense. (Actual values with my hardware and specs) Now all I see are generic names though everything seems to be working like usual.

How would I go about adding this resolution?

Here is my xorg.conf which has just recently gone haywire to show weird things...

[HTML]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
[/HTML]

---

### Post by Toribor on 2008-05-23
More notes as I find out more about the problem:

When I run ```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` I receive this error message directly after selecting emulate three button mouse:
```

xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080523124404
```

```
My new xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc104"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"		"true"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
```

Also, I did double check that I had the Intel graphics drivers installed properly, and I do. All the neccessary resolutions work on my primary display (laptop display) but I have it disabled because I would like to use the secondary monitor as my only display.

Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by sailor2001 on 2008-05-23
gksudo displayconfig-stk     will this work for you?

---

### Post by quonsar on 2008-05-23
> **sailor2001 said:**
> gksudo displayconfig-stk     will this work for you?

that would be gksudo displayconfig-gtk

---

