---
title: "12.04 Update Manager - slow, unstable, freezes"
date: 2012-07-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Donalb on 2012-07-31
One of the ongoing issues since upgrading to 12.04 has been Update Manager. It's sluggish to launch, but the real problem is how long it takes to install even small updates. The screen nearly always greys out and takes a long time to apply the changes.  Application Not Responding messages are common, maybe 60% of the time.

Any suggestions appreciated as always.

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2012-07-31
Do you have the same performance problems when you do the updates from a terminal, e.g.

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade (or dist-upgrade)

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2012-07-31
The update manager has been a bit poky on an irregular basis since beta 2 and I have installed the final release since. You could use the terminal as suggested , but I like to look at the list. It is possible to change download server from update manager > settings > ubuntu software.

In my case switching to the U.S. sever helped there is a choose best server option on the drop down menu.

---

### Post by Sandertje on 2012-07-31
The update manager indeed seems to be a lot slower than using the terminal in 12.04.

> **Frogs Hair said:**
> 
In my case switching to the U.S. sever helped there is a choose best server option on the drop down menu.

Well... it seems to me that this would only slow things down if one is located far from the US.

---

### Post by Dawnbandit on 2012-07-31
Just update via Synaptic.

---

### Post by Donalb on 2012-08-01
Thanks all. I tried terminal this morning, it certainly seemed much faster. I'm in Ireland and use the HeaNet Server, & I've been using this for years.

However I checked my ISP connection and found the latency has dropped significantly since I last checked it (from about 50ms to 250ms!). I'm wondering if that could be the problem? But if so, then why a difference between Terminal & Update Manager? 

The best thing about Update Manager for an average user like me, are the daily reminders. When I check sit at my system in the morning, the updates are queued up and ready to go, a constant reminder.

---

