---
title: "screwed up trying to upgrade my nvidia graphics driver"
date: 2009-02-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by whitelinux on 2009-02-21
Hi All,

I am running a dell xps m1710 and installed ubuntu 8.10.

Everything worked perfectly, just perfectly.

Until I tried to upgrade my graphics driver from the nvidia website and I screwed everything up. I was running 1.77 happily.

I have tried to reinstall the driver from terminal using:
sudo apt-get install nvidia-glx-180

and I also tried 177 and 173

every time I reboot I get "Ubuntu needs to run in low graphics mode"

I tried System >> Admin >> Hardware Drivers and selecting any of them and also doesn't work.

How do I go about trouble shooting this.

Any help super appreciated Thank you :)

This is my xorg.conf dont know if this is needed.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder63)  Tue Nov  4 14:07:17 PST 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "keyboard"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by whoop on 2009-02-21
You can try using envy(ng). It can remove and install drivers.

---

### Post by 0bso on 2009-02-21
I just had the same problem today. [Thread here.](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1076400)

Ran out of time messing with it and had to go to work. I'll keep an eye on this thread too. 

And I tried envy as suggested above and it didn't change anything.

---

### Post by williane on 2009-02-21
I had this problem about a month ago. Messed with it for almost a full week and finally gave up and just reinstalled. Everything I could find related to it said to try similar things but none of them ever works. Good luck. :(  Let us know if you figure it out, I'd like to know what the problem is.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-02-21
No offense intended here, but let this be a lesson to us all (me included):
> Everything **worked perfectly, just perfectly**.

Until I tried to upgrade my graphics driver from the nvidia website and I screwed everything up. I was running 1.77 happily.


If you have a system that works _perfectly_, don't mess with it.

What type of card to you have?

---

### Post by whitelinux on 2009-02-21
I have a nvidia 7900GS.

Still this is poor, if I cant fix it I will for ever be in fear of upgrading :(

---

### Post by 0bso on 2009-02-21
I found [this](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/showthread.php?p=1929993) while searching google for a solution.


Not near my computer to try it out tho. Might be worth looking into for your problem too.

> The solution: I removed by hand these files: /usr/lib/libGLcore.so.1 which actually is a symlink to libGLcore.so.180.29 (so I removed this file as well) and /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so which actually is a symlink to libglx.so.180.29 (also dropped) then I ran the nvidia-uninstall script. By reinstalling the 180.29 package I finally got a fully functional setup.

---

### Post by whitelinux on 2009-02-21
0bso, thank you very very much my friend you save me hours, fixed the problem completly.

I did the following as to your instructions:

The solution:

I removed by hand these files: /usr/lib/libGLcore.so.1 which actually is a symlink to libGLcore.so.180.29 (so I removed this file as well) and /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so which actually is a symlink to libglx.so.180.29 (also dropped) then I ran the nvidia-uninstall script.

---

### Post by happ on 2009-02-21
Try this:

 Before upgrading to latest nvidia drivers (current 180.29)

system > administration > hardware > disable any nvidia drivers if any are enabled



run: sudo apt-get --purge remove nvidia-glx* nvidia-kernel-common nvidia-settings

run: sudo apt-get autoremove



test: ctrl + atl + backspace : reconfigure display - after gdm restart no gfx drivers should be in use



stop gdm: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop



login with normal account



sudo sh /<driver location>/NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-180.29-pkg2.run



start gdm: sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

---

### Post by 0bso on 2009-02-21
It worked for mine also! 

What I did was delete /usr/lib/libGLcore.so.1, /usr/lib/libGLcore.so.180.29, /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so, and /usr/lib/xorg/modules/extensions/libglx.so.180.29. Then ran nvidia-uninstall. After that I rebooted it and then installed the 180 driver from the restricted drivers menu. It installed and worked fine.

> **Slim Odds said:**
> No offense intended here, but let this be a lesson to us all (me included):
If you have a system that works _perfectly_, don't mess with it.

What's the fun in that? "If it's not broke, fix it until it is."

---

### Post by BillJohnson on 2009-02-22
After looking at the other solutions to this problem, I tried this one,

Unfortunately this did not work for me. Same problem. This is exactly why no version of linux will ever be mainstream. Every time a new driver or new kernel is dumped on the ungeek public, this is the kind of stuff that they won't have patience for. I barely have the patience for it and I write software all day long.

It looks like NVidia screwed the pooch on this one (and we are the pooch).

Hi Ho, Hi Ho, it's back to '177 I go....:(:(:(:(:(

---

### Post by Benic on 2009-02-22
I had big time troubles with Nvidia 96 driver. Every time I tried to install it manually, it crashed, saying it can't build the kernel module. I decided to give Envy a try and it works.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2009-02-22
> **Benic said:**
> I had big time troubles with Nvidia 96 driver. Every time I tried to install it manually, it crashed, saying it can't build the kernel module. I decided to give Envy a try and it works.

There are some prerequisite tools that need to be installed before the manual install will work. I don't know for sure what. But I think that the linux headers and build-essentials are probably needed.

---

