---
title: "10.04 boot up problem"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rajn on 2010-05-09
Hi,
I have the same problem though in my case eventually I am able to launch  the desktop. But every boot has a long wait with two error messages.
'error: no suitable mode found'
'error:unknown command 'terminal''

I upgraded from Karmic to Lucid Lynx 10.04. on a working Vaio PCG FX220.  Karmic worked well though with some changes to Xorg due to screen  resolution problems which ultimately got resolved. 

However, after upgrading to 10.04, I am having problems on booting up  which get resolved but after about a long wait of a minute or more..I  get these message 
'error: no suitable mode found, unknown command 'terminal'.'

This is followed by a long 1-2 minute wait. Then a garbled screen and  suddenly I am launched into the desktop. 

And I tried all possible workarounds as suggested in this post i.e.,  changed the mode to 1024x768 in /etc/default/grub

or as suggested in 

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...b2/+bug/519358]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/519358").

by editing header 00 in grub.d 
specifically..
 if terminal_output gfxterm ; then true ; else
    # For backward compatibility with versions of terminal.mod that   don't
    # understand terminal_output
    if terminal gfxterm ; then
      true
    fi
  fi
But to no avail....

Wonder if any suggestions on this post would work for me? None of the problems seem to me familiar. I am a newbee and do not understand plymouth issues etc.

I would really like to know what is causing this. How did everything  work in Karmic? Can I copy the previous grub .lst file into grub.cfg and  resolve the issue?

Thanks

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-09
Post moved to own thread.

The Lucid Sticky is not a support thread.

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-09
What graphics card do you have?
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

I *think* your laptop has an intel 8xx card. If so, see:
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Bugs/Lucidi8xxFreezes)

---

### Post by rajn on 2010-05-10
Thanks,
I did not expect that I had started a new thread. I accidentally stumbled across my own thread without realizing it.
Ok to your question:

Intel Corp 82815 chipset CGC ver11.

Yes, I did look up the site you suggested and followed almost every advice. First in my version there is no i915-kms.conf. Anyway, I created it and put the modeset =1, updated the initrams but nothing changed at all.
As I mentioned in my first post, the only problem I have is that after the first two error messages the computer sits quite for a loooong time and then gives me a desktop and everything is set to go. Somebody may say - if that is the case - why bother. At least things work. But.....

Ok, next I changed the "quiet splash" in the default/grub to "i915 modeset =0". (because in some other forum site this was suggested - which conflicts with modeset=1 suggestion from the site you mentioned)
After grub update and reboot again same two errors but this time lots of messages ran across the screen in few seconds and then the messages halted and again a loooong wait before I was launched into the desktop.

What bothers me - in spite of things working out fine in the end - why the two errors - which I repeat below
'error: no suitable mode found, 
error:unknown command 'terminal'.'

and why the long wait?


Somewhere, I read it may have to do with plymouth. I never heard of this feature and should look into it.
I really need to understand what is happening just because next time there is an update who knows what is going to happen if I do not resolve this issue. As it is with Karmic I had to search for three weeks (that too as a newbee to resolve screen issue). And the solution was not easy nor was it listed in the official Ubuntu help site. It had to do with a change to Xorg.conf which did not even exist in my OS. I had to create it. Now I wonder if Grub2 and Xorg are in conflict causing the above problems. I wish I knew more....
Thanks anyway.

---

### Post by Catharsis on 2010-05-10
Try replacing "quiet splash" with "noapic noapci nosplash irqpoll".

---

### Post by rajn on 2010-05-10
Tried "noapic noapci nosplash irqpoll" 
Then update-grub2

It works similar to i915 modeset=0.
i.e., I get the two errors and then long list of messages which finally halt and then a wait for ~ 40-50 seconds when nothing seems to happen and then launched into desktop.

What I am wondering is that if this is "normal" behaviour and not a problem? Am I fussing over nothing? Why the two errors about "no suitable mode and unknown command terminal?.

The wait time seems to have shortened a bit...

Thank you for your suggestion.

---

### Post by pulli on 2010-05-11
I had a similar issue with the onboard Intel graphics card in my old compaq presario booting in to 10.04. The monitor blinks a couple of times at the purple booting screen and then the screen goes blank. I got 'no input signal' message on the monitor and no response to console switching or what so ever.
 
**The work around** was
1. Select 'Recovery mode' at the GRUB menu
2. In the subsequent menu, select console (with or w/o networking) option
3. log-in
4. Issue startx command and the screen come alive with X
 
**Fix** (or what worked for me)
Once you are in the gnome
1. Start shell (do not try to play around with the x at this point, I had it frozen when tried)
2. go to /etc/X11
3. sudo cp xorg.conf.* xorg.conf (this will copy the graphics safe recovery mode xorg.conf to the real one which was never created by the system in the first place.)
4. restart in to normal boot

---

### Post by rajn on 2010-05-11
Thank you Pulli for your response,
I am sorry but I do not understand the following. If you do not mind could you explain?

[I]Once you are in the gnome
1. Start shell (do not try to play around with the x at this point, I  had it frozen when tried)
2. go to /etc/X11[/I]

Yes, did that....but the next statement is confusing. Sorry but I am relatively new to Linux. If there is already xorg.conf in /etc/X11 where am I copying it to?


[I]3. sudo cp xorg.conf.* xorg.conf (this will copy the graphics safe  recovery mode xorg.conf to the real one which was never created by the  system in the first place.)
[/I]

Thanks,

---

### Post by pulli on 2010-05-12
What I meant was if there is a blank screen issue an xorg.conf is either not created (as in my case) or the one exists is not working.
 
So when you started in fail safe and startx is working, a xorg.conf.<*failsafe or some other text*> file is created. Command [FONT=Courier New]sudo cp xorg.conf.<*failsafe or some other text*> xorg.conf[/FONT] will copy the working config as the default config.
Hope I am clear now...

---

### Post by rajn on 2010-05-13
I tried the "safe mode" approach. First it started with a low resolution screen. Secondly, I do not see any xorg.conf files. I thought Ubuntu Karmic got rid of Xorg.conf. That is why I had to create it to solve the low resolution monitor problem with Karmic.

Sorry but this is all getting too complicated.

This is my conclusion:
For some reason Ubuntu cannot retrieve proper data from Intel815 chip. Therefore monitor is unresolved. The only to fix is by reconfiguring xorg.conf. This fixes the screen resolution but the errors that I mentioned in the post will keep coming. It will not hurt the operation in anyway and desktop will work. The only problem is that in Preferences -> Monitor, the monitor will not be recognized.
And yes compiz and 3D acc will slow down the computer or will not work.
Depending on what is to be done on an old laptop (FX220 Vaio) this option is still better than WinME. However, I am seriously thinking of downgrading from Lucid to Karmic after spate of new complaints about Lucid freezing and crashing computer.
Thanks,

---

