---
title: "(U9.04) Printing on Windows print server with domain authentication"
date: 2009-08-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jonas_t on 2009-08-26
Hi there,

after quite a few googling and searching the forums, I decided to ask my question here:

I have set up a network pinter in Ubuntu Jaunty but can't print. The printer is available via a Windows print server and requires Windows domain authentication. That is, user name, domain name and password.

The printer setup dialog asks for these credentials at setup and finally shows a dialog that says that the printer is **accessible**. However, when actually printing the printer there is an error message saying
** "Failed to print document. Too many failed attempts."**
The document is **not** put in the printers queue.

Trying to print a test page (from the printer setup dialog, that says the printer is accessible) also fails to print (without any error message). This time, however, the document **is put into** the printer's queue and says "Held for authentication" and user "root", but not my user name (which I have entered at printer setup!). 

If I then choose to "Re-Authenticate" from the documents right click menu, I just get a dialog that asks for user name and password, but not for the domain name. Entering them again doesn't help either. I guess there should be at least dialog again asking for user name, domain name and password?

Is that a bug or am I doing something completely wrong?

Thanks in advance,
Jonas

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2009-08-26
Can you print to the windows print server with the same credentials from another machine?

Are you able to drop the authentication and see if you can print without the login?

---

### Post by jonas_t on 2009-08-26
I can print on the very same print server/printer combination from several windows machines using exact these credentials.

Printing without those credentials is not possible. Accessing the printer server also works only WITH the credentials.

Are there any helpful logs that I could post here?

P.S.: thanks for the fast reply!

---

### Post by jonas_t on 2009-08-26
bump!

---

### Post by Dorrax on 2009-08-28
I have the same problem. Any help would be helpful...

---

### Post by Dorrax on 2009-08-31
Follow the instructions at the bottom of this page, it worked for me. Basically, you most likely need a new driver.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=982319&highlight=can%27t+prompt+authorization](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=982319&highlight=can%27t+prompt+authorization)

---

### Post by jonas_t on 2009-08-31
Hi Dorrax,

first: thanks for posting this link over here.

At first, "install a new driver" sounds simple, BUT what if

- the printer is a HP printer
- Ubuntu already offers HPLIP (HP Linux Printing) drivers

-> I don't want to mess up my Ubuntu install by throwing another version 
of printer drivers at it. Plus, I'm not sure where to put them or how to 
replace the existing ones in a safe manner.

Solutions, anybody? :)

---

### Post by jonas_t on 2009-08-31
Oh, and in addition to my previously mentioned concers the HPLIP website says:

[B]You have selected Ubuntu 9.04 using the HP LaserJet 4350 Printer.

Ubuntu 9.04 supplies HPLIP 3.9.2 and it does support your printer.

As the version of HPLIP supplied with your operating system supports your printer, you may continue to use that version of HPLIP.[/B]

---

### Post by jonas_t on 2009-08-31
Actually, I don't think that this is a driver issue.

I have not updated my drivers but reinstalled the printer and tested printing on the very same printer with 2 given Ubuntu drivers. Reinstalling actually brought back the authentication dialog which was not shown anymore but rather the aforementioned "too many failed attempts".

In fact, the authentication dialog that is shown does not let me enter the workgroup as it is REQUIRED by the Windows SMB printserver. There simply is no field in which I could enter the workgroup. See attached screenshot.

Is that a bug or not?

---

### Post by Ms_Angel_D on 2009-08-31
I remember having this problem, I believe what I did was delete the printer and then went into the cups configuration in the browser ([http://127.0.0.1:631](http://127.0.0.1:631)) and added the printer from there along with  adjusting printer settings. 

I wish I could remember a bit more on it but it might give you a clue of where to look.

Angel

---

### Post by jonas_t on 2009-08-31
Mhh.. tried this too. I added it using the web interface and everything looks good - DESPITE the fact that, when trying to print a test page, I'm faced with a very similar authentication dialog that again does NOT ask for the domain. :(

The printer's status page on the web interface says:
**"Tree connect failed (NT_STATUS_ACCESS_DENIED)"**


So, unfortunately, there does not seem to be any major difference in adding the printer via the web page or the Ubuntu GUI.

---

### Post by brad_richards on 2009-09-14
There are two things here:

First: entire classes of Gnome applications fail to print to printers requiring Windows authentication. This is a known bug, but apparently as yet (September 2009) unsolved.

Second: applications like OpenOffice can print. To do so, you must open the print queue (right-click on the printer, show print queue), right click on the print job, and select "authenticate". Enter your credentials as follows:

domain\user-name
password

The original poster did not know how to specify the domain. It precedes the user-name and is separated with a backslash.

My question: I cannot get Ubuntu to remember these credentials. Anyone know how?

---

### Post by roadrawts on 2009-09-20
I am running Jaunty Jalope 9.04.  Printer is an HP multifunction printer on a Windows machine networked thru SMB.  I can print a Test Page successfully from Ubuntu, but I can't print any files from applications.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2009-09-20
If possible use linux as the print server as windows can be very troublesome.
Once Cups is your print server (Default in Ubunut) you just add it to windows as a HTTP printer and it works fine.

---

### Post by roadrawts on 2009-09-20
Thanks for the reply.  I could have done that but the HP printer software for scanning, faxing, etc. only runs on Windows.  That's why it's on that box.  If I install it on the Linux box I won't get that functionality any more.  So, that's why I would rather have it work this way.  Also, if I can print a test page from Admin->Printers I would think I could print from an application also.  That doesn't make any sense to me.

---

### Post by jonas_t on 2009-09-21
> **brad_richards said:**
> First: entire classes of Gnome applications fail to print to printers requiring Windows authentication. This is a known bug, but apparently as yet (September 2009) unsolved.


That sucks... I hope they get it fixed until Karmic release! Printing is some everyday job that needs to work if Ubuntu wants to be a real alternative to Windows...

> **brad_richards said:**
> 
Second: applications like OpenOffice can print. To do so, you must open the print queue (right-click on the printer, show print queue), right click on the print job, and select "authenticate". Enter your credentials as follows:

domain\user-name
password

The original poster did not know how to specify the domain. It precedes the user-name and is separated with a backslash.


At first: thanks for this hint! I'll give it a try and see if it works.
I actually know that this is possible in general but did not even think that this dialog would be able to handle such combination, so I didn't try. The dialog should AT LEAST mention this. Besides the fact that users (like me) don't think of that there will still be others that don't even know how to prefix the domain name.. 

> **danwood76 said:**
> If possible use linux as the print server as windows can be very troublesome.
Once Cups is your print server (Default in Ubunut) you just add it to windows as a HTTP printer and it works fine.

Well, I know that Windows sometimes acts weird. But putting the print server onto a Linux machine is not an alternative at all if you're in a network managed by some sysadmin and most of the network server and workstations are running Windows. They won't even think about doing so... 
Again: printing is an everyday job that has to work! If I can print on the very same printer from Windows, why shouldn't this be possible from Ubuntu?

---

### Post by mooscape on 2009-10-03
Authentication issues:

I have experienced exactly the same problem on a new install of Jaunty. I read through the posts and googled, but could not find anything. Instead of trying to set up the printers from my machine (the printers are on another Jaunty machine), I went: SYSTEM--> ADMINISTRATION --> PRINTING to call up the Printer configuration dialogue.  Then choose SERVER --> SETTINGS and ensure you have selected "show printers shared by other systems". The printers then appeared in the configuration box and I could procede to use them without any authentication.  Good luck...

---

### Post by alcarola on 2011-02-15
I had this problem on Lucid as well. I solved it by putting the domain in /etc/samba/smb.conf, example:

#======================= Global Settings =======================

[global]

## Browsing/Identification ###

# Change this to the workgroup/NT-domain name your Samba server will part of
   workgroup = EWI

---

