---
title: "5.10 Install Problems"
date: 2005-12-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JammoUK on 2005-12-22
Hi all,

I'm trying to install Breezy on my box but I'm not getting very far.

I'm using a downloaded ISO (MD5s match) and I've even tried a friend's CD (5.04), but I'm getting the same errors.

Basically, I get passed the keyboard selection, then the process scans the CD. This is fine. When "Installing additional packages" it tries to unpack a module and then keeps flicking back and forth from the blackscreen.

After a few mins of this, the word "killed" keeps flashing in the bottom left.

I get no further than this.

Any ideas? I'd really like to get Ubuntu working from friends' recommendations...

Many thanks,
- James

---

### Post by kazuya on 2005-12-22
c'mon somebody help out here. Anyway, you could try running the CD directly from the internal CDROM. If that fails try from an external CDROM. Maybe that CDROM is too slow at running. Also the media, try cleaning or buffing lightly with a paper cloth with no sharpness.


Make sure the internal CDROM drive is well connected as well. 

Also you may try to send any other additional error messages. I hope this helps somehow.

Somebody else , please help.

---

### Post by JammoUK on 2005-12-22
Thanks for replying...

I'm running the setup from a burnt CDROM, but the install just dies.

I've tried:
 - Burnt 5.10 (2 different CDs) - MD5s match.
 - Ubuntu shipped cd 5.04 (Install and Live) - neither work.

On installing the 5.04 this is what happens:

 - Select Keyboard - ok
 - "Detecting hardware" - ok
 - "scanning cdrom" - ok
 - "loading additional components" - error
"Unpacking : nic-extra-modules " - error (screen flickers back and forth on this line)

Cheers...
- James

---

