---
title: "14.04 Permanent &quot;Retry&quot; placeholder on login screen, incorrect login in terminal"
date: 2016-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alex532 on 2016-04-16
Hello everyone, it happened to my system after hard shutdown.
Now on login screen I see placeholder 'Retry' in the password field, I can't type anything.

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/PQ7kMXc.jpg[/IMG]


Then I decided to watch what terminal says (ctrl+alt+f1):

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/FksRMty.jpg[/IMG]

Proper login doesn't work at all. Always get "login incorrect".

What is that? Some broken auth package?

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2016-04-16
Are you sure that Thohoh (with an upper case T) is your actual login name? they are usually all lower case (like [FONT=courier new]thoho[/FONT])

The name presented on the GUI login screen is your "display name" or "full name" which is often different

---

### Post by alex532 on 2016-04-16
Yes, I'm sure. Updated terminal snapshot 
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/FksRMty.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2016-04-17
You can check your username if you boot into recovery mode. Then drop to a root shell and run the command```
cat /etc/passwd | grep Thohoh
```That should give you a line with the login information of the user with full name Thohoh. The format is```
username:(password):userID:groupID:full name:home directory:shell
```Don't worry, the hash of the actual password is no longer there, it has moved to a different file years ago.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2016-04-17
Since you're not even being prompted for a password, I suspect something's gone wrong at quite a low level in the authentication process - maybe with something in /etc/pam.d

I seem to recall seeing another thread / question like this quite recently either here or on one of the stackexchange sites - but I can't seem to find it

What were you doing (software installations? anything using root?) prior to this?

---

### Post by alex532 on 2016-04-19
Thanks for the answers! Solved the problem through **recovery mode -> repair broken packages.**

---

