---
title: "10.04 only showing 3.2GB memory w/4GB installed"
date: 2010-07-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by terry_opie on 2010-07-28
As the title states, I'm only seeing 3.2GB of memory with 4GB installed.

```
--> free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          3277        990       2286          0         58        388
-/+ buffers/cache:        543       2733
Swap:         2933          0       2933
-->
```

My mainboard is a MSI K8N Neo4 Platinum.  I have 4GB of OCZ memory installed.  2GB just recently installed.  In the bios, I've enabled the memory hole remapping for both HW/SW.  It is not a shared memory with the onboard video.  I have the onboard video disabled.  I have a dedicated Nvidia card.  The Bios does show a full 4GB in the system information section.

So...  my question is.  I thought that 10.04, was supposed to have the pae kernel enabled by default.  Is that not the case?

```
--> uname -r
2.6.32-24-generic
-->
```

Is the fix to install the pae kernel? 

Thanks for any input!

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2010-07-28
You've installed a 32-bit version without PAE kernel. If you want to get the "missing" RAM back, you need to either move to PAE kernel (this is the officially recommended solution) or download a native 64-bit version of Ubuntu and reinstall (but keep in mind that native 64-bit versions have some very annoying issues like the lack of proper Flash support).

---

### Post by roger_1960 on 2010-07-28
Hi

This may help

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/EnablingPAE)

---

### Post by terry_opie on 2010-07-28
I know how to enable the pae kernel... I had just heard reports that it was there by default when 10.04 was installed.

I had enabled the pae kernel earlier this week, but still only saw 3.2GB of memory.  I'm pretty sure that was caused by not having the memory hole mapping settings correct in the BIOS.  As the bios only showed 3.2GB until I changed that.

So, I'm guessing that installing pae this time around will give me my full 4GB of memory now.

When I did install the pae kernel earlier this week, I ran into a little snafu.  When it came up, it put me into low video mode (800x600).  It couldn't find a valid Nvidia driver.

Does anyone know if this is resolved?  I've searched, but haven't found anything but what looks like a hack that someone has propagated to just about every forum that pops up on a search.

I'm not sure if I want the trouble of messing with trying to get a Nvidia driver working, versus the extra 700MB of memory that I'll gain...

Thoughts?

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2010-07-28
> **terry_opie said:**
> I had just heard reports that it was there by default when 10.04 was installed.
It's not included on the CD. You need to have a working Internet connection during the installation to get PAE kernel installed by default.

---

### Post by terry_opie on 2010-07-30
Marked this as solved, since running pae kernel solved the issue.

---

