---
title: "Hardy nvidia 8600GTS compiz-fusion white screen"
date: 2008-06-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheFlamingFoot on 2008-06-19
Every time I log in, compiz causes the screen to turn white. The mouse pointer remains visible, and can still be used to interact with the desktop (although I cannot see it), and using Ctrl+Alt+Left makes the cube rotate, but with white sides.

I have Kubuntu Hardy, using KDE 3.5, and I used this tutorial to install compiz-fusion: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/CompizFusion](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/CompositeManager/CompizFusion)

I have an nvidia 8600GTS, with the nvidia driver from their website. I have removed and purged this, tried nvidia-glx-new, but the problem still occurs, so I have returned to the driver off the nvidia site again.

Here is my xorg.conf:
```

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Mon May 19 00:29:52 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option "AIGLX" "true"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dri"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    Option         "XAANoOffscreenPixmaps" "true"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
    Mode 0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


```

Can anyone help me solve this problem?

Thanks!

---

### Post by pietjanjaap on 2008-06-22
Written for ati, but you can try?

1 do this then compiz does not start with ubuntu, and you don't get the white screen.

Stop Compiz-Fusion From Loading Automatically

This guide will show you how to stop Compiz-Fusion from loading automatically on startup in Hardy Heron and how to setup a shortcut for launching Compiz when you want.

Step 1: Run gconf-edit
Start Run Application by pressing Alt+F2

Screenshot-Run Application

Enter gconf-editor into the box, hit enter


Step 2: Set Metacity as your default start up window manager
Once in gconf-editor navigate to desktop>gnome>applications>window_manager

Screenshot-Configuration Editor - window_manager

under current and default replace each instance of:
/usr/bin/compiz with /usr/bin/metacity
it should like this when you're done:

Screenshot-Configuration Editor - window_manager-1



Step 3: Create a shortcut for starting Compiz-Fusion
right click the Applications Places System Menu
select the Edit Menu option

Screenshot-Main Menu

pick a location for your shortcut and select New Item box

Screenshot-Launcher Properties
Type: Application
Name: Compiz
Command: compiz --replace
COmment compiz window manager


2 try this:
dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg is not the same anymore, now you can install your keybord and more with this.
But your videocard and monitor goes like this,
start in safe mode,
choose the last options with the x,
Here ubuntu will search and identify your monitor and videocard, so you have all your posssible settings.
Then reboot and install your videcard driver.(i use envy for this).

3

/etc/modprobe.d/blacklist

hier in kopieren

blacklist i82875p_edac
blacklist edac_mc

4

Setup Compiz Fusion with open source ati radeon drivers

Older ATI cards have been blacklisted for Compiz Fusion because of a bug in the driver, but there is an easy workaround for many cards that use the open source ati drivers. Radeon 9500 are the oldest cards to support the restricted "fglrx" drivers, so everything older requires the open source drivers to function properly.



First edit the launcher for Compiz Fusion:

gksudo gedit /usr/bin/compiz

Near the top, add the line

SKIP_CHECKS="yes"

I added it under VERBOSE="yes"

You may also need to install the Compiz settings manager program that you can access from System->Preferences->Advanced Desktop Effect Settings | 1-click install or:

sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager

You can now load Compiz Fusion with

compiz --replace

and revert to Metacity (the basic window manager) with

metacity --replace

I suggest making launchers in a panel for this.

Remember that this is a workaround and may not work for everybody. If you have further problems, you should consider running a forum search and then posting on one of the main support forums if you still need help.
For the record, my card is an ATI Mobility Radeon 9000.

---

### Post by RogueLeader on 2008-09-08
I decided to upgrade my nvidia driver with version 177.67 on a Kubuntu system with an 8600GT as well.  I was also having the white-screen problem, until I stumbled upon [this blog post]("http://pebblesinthesand.wordpress.com/2008/05/16/nvidia-8600-gt-direct-rendering-on-hardy-heron/") detailing, more or less, [this bug]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xgl/+bug/138355") despite not mentioning it explicitly or being related at all.

The basic point of those is to make sure you have xserver-xgl UNINSTALLED.  It certainly fixed things for me... so at least check if that's the case for you.  Bug reporters claimed the white screen problem was only affecting KDE, which you clearly use, leading me even more to believe this was your problem.

Good luck!

---

