---
title: "12.04 Facebook and General Web Issues"
date: 2013-12-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rwilliams651 on 2013-12-23
I'm new to to Ubuntu and obviously, new to this community. I installed Ubuntu a few days ago and have loved it except . . . 

I must have some internet settings off and for the life of me, I can't figure out why. I load facebook and I can login but after that, pretty much nothing works. The pictures load and the intial page looks fine but when I scroll to the bottom of the page, it doesn't load anything else, when I try to use the search function in facebook it just comes up with "retreiving suggestions", and the home and profile links don't do anything. This happens in Chromium and Firefox and my Mac and PC both browse all websites without issue.

What I've done:

Cleared the cache - without doing this, I can't even load the page
Changed the DNS to 8.8.8.8, 8.8.4.4
Lowered my MTU to 1464
(and all of this is on a https:// url)

After taking those steps, I can actually login and get the first screen but things still won't load. Certain sites also don't work like ESPN and twitter but  sites like MLSsoccer.com and this site work fine. Any help or suggestions would be appreciated.

---

### Post by tfrue on 2013-12-24
I'm not quite sure this will fix your problem, as I don't know how related the solutions will be, but I don't think they will be hard to try. Now Adobe flash is for video's I believe, but disabling it may work. I don't know. 

Read this site:
[http://forums.adobe.com/thread/891337](http://forums.adobe.com/thread/891337)

Also, try and make a new profile for Firefox, so open a terminal and type:
```
firefox -p
```

A dialogue box will appear, select "Create A New Profile", name it and select "Start Firefox."

---

### Post by claracc on 2013-12-24
I think you can find this link: [https://support.mozilla.org/es/questions/717024](https://support.mozilla.org/es/questions/717024) interesting in order to fix your problem. It points to different possible offenders and there are different workarounds you can try.

Perhaps the problem is with some of the addons you have installed in firefox, specifically you can try to disable temporarily some of them one by one and see if the problem fixes.

---

### Post by holycow131415 on 2013-12-24
Problems accessing some websites but not all seem to be a modem/ISP issue in most cases. I would reboot your modem and router to get refreshed settings from your ISP.

---

### Post by rwilliams651 on 2013-12-30
Thanks for the replies guys. I went into my router settings and changed the DNS server there to google's 8.8.8.8 and 8.8.4.4 and things seem to be running smoother. But after a few minutes, it hangs up again. Facebook will load but I can't click links, use the search, or post a status. When I tried to load this site I got a "no data received" error three times before loading.

---

### Post by rwilliams651 on 2013-12-30
I don't mean to jinx it because I thought I found the problem last time. I changed my Router settings from WPA2 to WPA and sites load fully again and Facebook is 100% functional. Now, I just hope it stays that way.

---

