---
title: "17.10 Sometimes fails to boot"
date: 2017-12-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by snowy16 on 2017-12-13
Since upgrading my 13" Macbook Pro 11,1 (mid-2014) from 17.04 to 17.10, it will randomly have various services fail to start and will eventually hang during boot up.  Most of the failed services appear tied to networking.  If I ride it out til the Network Manager Dispatcher Script service tries to start and then push the power button which initiates a graceful shutdown, the next time I boot up everything will start normally.  If I don't wait til this happens and try to hard shutdown or hit the power button before most of the services that can startup do, the boot failure will continue to happen.  I've been trying to pinpoint what service or maybe hardware device is causing this problem, but haven't had any luck.  I do have an SD card plugged in and do connect to an OpenVPN server while using my laptop, but these don't seem to affect when this problem appears.  The problem seems to happen almost every other day.  Any help or people having similar issues willing to comment would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by snowy16 on 2017-12-13
After combing through syslog for errors I noticed that the apparmor service was failing to start.  I found this link related to apparmor failures in 17.10.

[https://askubuntu.com/questions/973765/apparmor-initialization-failed-in-ubuntu-17-10](https://askubuntu.com/questions/973765/apparmor-initialization-failed-in-ubuntu-17-10)

Basically installing apparmor-easyprof-ubuntu resolved the apparmor failures.  I rebooted a couple times and haven't had it hang yet.  I'm hoping this is the cause, but will monitor for the next few days to see if this resolves the boot hangs.

---

### Post by snowy16 on 2017-12-18
Well after a few days of no issues, the failed services during boot happened again.  Back to digging through logs, the internet, and hoping someone can provide some insight.

---

