---
title: "10.04 firefox 3.6 JIT not active on x86_64"
date: 2010-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by naos_pl on 2010-05-04
Hi All,

Recently I upgraded to Ubu 10.04 and I've noticed that tracemonkey is not active in ubuntu's default firefox installation (version 3.6.3). 

In about:config javascript.options.jit.chrome and javascript.options.jit.content are both set by default to true, but when I ran sunspider I got result ~ 2500 ms and on the same machine when I've downloaded firefox 3.6.3 from [http://firefox.com](http://firefox.com) and ran the same testsuite I got ~ 1500 ms.

I don't have an idea how to activate jit in distro's firefox, does anyone have similar problem? It is strange because as far as I know tracemonkey from versions 3.6 and higher is available on x86_64 arch?

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-05-05
Tracemonkey is enabled on Firefox 64bit from Mozilla nightly repository. Since Mozilla doesn't release an official build for 64bit, then most likely that the default Firefox has Tracemonkey enabled, unless the Ubuntu developers disabled it.

I have tested Firefox vanilla 3.6.3, Firefox 3.6.5pre from ubuntu-mozilla-daily ppa and Firefox 3.6.4pre from Mozilla nightly repository. The all rendered similar Sunspider results.

---

### Post by Shining Arcanine on 2010-06-20
Are you sure that you were not running the 32-bit versions? Mozilla Firefox 3.6.3 definitely has TraceMonkey support, but it is disabled by default by upstream and downstream maintainers, with the exception of Arch Linux, do not enable it because of that.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-08-05
> **Shining Arcanine said:**
> Are you sure that you were not running the 32-bit versions? Mozilla Firefox 3.6.3 definitely has TraceMonkey support, but it is disabled by default by upstream and downstream maintainers, with the exception of Arch Linux, do not enable it because of that.

You are correct. Sorry for my mistake. It seems it will be enabled on Firefox 4 64bit.

---

