---
title: "12.04 &quot;login loop&quot; nvidia"
date: 2013-01-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kinetos on 2013-01-15
Hi,
About a week ago I had left my computer on at night so it could reinstall a game on steam overnight and I woke up the next morning to find that there was a power outage in the middle of the night (all the clocks not running on battery were messed up and my computer was off).  When I tried to start up my computer, It asked me as usual which kernel I wanted to boot from and I selected the most recent version like I usually do and it went to the ubuntu loading screen.  Then it got weird.  Instead of taking me to the login screen as it would normally do, I got a command line telling me to login.  I tried pressing CTRL+ALT+F7 but it didn't work, all I got were a whole bunch of lines of text in a command line.  I went back  to F1 and logged in and tried using 'startx' but it came up with a few errors and didn't start.  after trying to reinstall my nvidia drivers (the last word being plural  turning out to be the original problem), nvidia-experimental-304 and nvidia-experimental-310, I noticed when I used 'startx' that it mentioned the kernel nvidia version being that of the 304 not the 310, so I purged the 310,
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge nvidia-experimental-310
```and when I rebooted it brought me to the login screen.

Now for the current problem, I can't login to my user "kinetos".  Whenever I enter my password my monitor goes black and when I move my mouse it just loops back to the login screen.  When I go down to "Login" and enter "root" then my password it logs in to root,  I get my root desktop like it should, and all my files are still on both my hard drives.

I have read elsewhere that the problem is sometimes the fact that .Xauthority is claimed by root, and checking my permissions in /home/kinetos while logged in as root, I see that .Xauthority is in fact owned by root.  Is this the problem?  Do I need to set it to my other user?  Are there any problems that would be caused by doing so?

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by Kinetos on 2013-01-27
I figured it out, root claimed my .Xauthourity file in home all I had to do was change it back with
```
sudo chown kinetos:kinetos .Xauthourity
```
and it hasn't messed up again yet!

---

