---
title: "Network Manager Missing on Version 10?"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ajwei810192 on 2010-05-26
Hi, 

 This is weird, because I was able to go online yesterday using Ubuntu,   but now I cannot. For some reason, when I ping an address, like [www.hotmail.com]("http://www.hotmail.com/") or [www.ubuntu.com]("http://www.ubuntu.com/"), it   tells me this: ping: unknown host [www.ubuntu.com]("http://www.ubuntu.com/")

  I looked at ifconfig by typing it into the terminal prompt, and this   is what I get:

eth0      Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 08:00:27:77:07:0b  
          inet6 addr: fe80::a00:27ff:fe77:70b/64 Scope:Link
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:815 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:541 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000 
          RX bytes:304885 (304.8 KB)  TX bytes:80944 (80.9 KB)
          Interrupt:10 Base address:0xd020 

lo        Link encap:Local Loopback  
          inet addr:127.0.0.1  Mask:255.0.0.0
          inet6 addr: ::1/128 Scope:Host
          UP LOOPBACK RUNNING  MTU:16436  Metric:1
          RX packets:1781 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:1781 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:0 
          RX bytes:180373 (180.3 KB)  TX bytes:180373 (180.3 KB)

However, I get nothing when I do 

cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Generated by NetworkManager

I cannot find network manager from my panel, how can I get back online   now? I am online using a different system on my computer as I speak via   Windows. 

Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by AlexDudko on 2010-05-26
If it's Ubuntu, it should be in the right corner of the upper panel. If there isn't one = enter in terminal
> nm-applet
and it will be launched.

---

### Post by ajwei810192 on 2010-05-26
Well, I tried, but I still cannot get it to pop up. For some reason, I cannot even go online, and I am using my Windows System to surf the internet as I speak. 

This is what I have from my terminal prompt:

alice@alice-laptop:~$ nm-applet 
The program 'nm-applet' can be found in the following packages:
 * network-manager-gnome
 * mythbuntu-diskless-client
Try: sudo apt-get install <selected package>
alice@alice-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get network-manager-gnome
[sudo] password for alice: 
E: Invalid operation network-manager-gnome

Have I done something wrong here?
Thanks for your help.

---

### Post by obscurant1st on 2010-05-26
you may need to download it from another computer since this computer cant go online and so apt-get wont work. :|

---

### Post by ajwei810192 on 2010-05-26
OK, I fixed the adapter issue, since it looks like there was something wrong with my configurations when I open up the internet originally. I am online now on the Linux system as I speak. 

Yet, I used the commands again, and it gives me this:

alice@alice-laptop:~$ sudo apt-get network-manager-gnome
E: Invalid operation network-manager-gnome
alice@alice-laptop:~$ 

I wonder what is up?
Any help is appreciated.

---

### Post by AlexDudko on 2010-05-26
sudo apt-get **install** network-manager-gnome

---

### Post by ajwei810192 on 2010-05-26
Silly me, I have now got it installed. But, I still don't see it anywhere near my panels. 
Have I missed something here?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-26
icon should be on top panel

metacity --replace

---

### Post by AlexDudko on 2010-05-26
Start it from terminal.
Then System->Preferences->Startup Applications and select NetworkManager
Next boot it should start automatically.

---

### Post by ajwei810192 on 2010-05-26
Thanks, it is now working.

---

### Post by ReddogOne on 2010-05-26
Don't know if this is related to a problem I am having in that the manager is running but the icon is not appearing. The whole top right of the panel seems corrupted in some way. Sometimes get two volume controls or two user names but no 'power' button.

---

### Post by AlexDudko on 2010-05-26
> **ReddogOne said:**
> Don't know if this is related to a problem I am having in that the manager is running but the icon is not appearing. The whole top right of the panel seems corrupted in some way. Sometimes get two volume controls or two user names but no 'power' button.

What happens if you create a new user and log in with a new name?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-26
> **ReddogOne said:**
> Don't know if this is related to a problem I am having in that the manager is running but the icon is not appearing. The whole top right of the panel seems corrupted in some way. Sometimes get two volume controls or two user names but no 'power' button.

metacity --replace

---

