---
title: "9.04 installed inside windows crashes constantly"
date: 2009-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sigixv on 2009-05-07
Used 9.04 install inside windows option. (Vista Home edition)

1. Ubuntu
-Enabled Desktop Effects
-Installed CCSM
-Set Screen Edge option to "Scale: initiate windows chooser" (don't know if these are the right terms in english distro, i'm using dutch)
=> immediate screen freeze when using the option
*Mouse remains active but no click response
*No keyboard response
*(some) Processes remain active (e.g.: audio playback)

=> sometimes crashed all the same without putting workload (or using Desktop Effects) and also audio playback stops

2. Kubuntu
-Enabled Desktop Effects
=> Becomes unstable instantly
* Screen freeze is imminent but unpredictable when (2min - 5 hours?)
* All processes shut down, no mouse or key responsiveness


Not really looking for a workaround here, just posted it hoping that it can be implemented in an automatich update in the future. Please don't reply that i should make a clean install or dual boot. I'm not a true newbie here and in a few months i'll have finished university and be making a clean install removing vista from my box.

I made this report for all newcomers wanting to try ubuntu (=it just works), The install inside windows option will be the one they'll be using. If that one proves to be quite buggy, they'll be put off and won't do the effort to learn and use any linux distro.


Now for tech support: i think it's a driver/hardware problem.

I'm using a Toshiba Satellite L300

[http://www.linlap.com/wiki/toshiba+satellite+l300]("http://www.linlap.com/wiki/toshiba+satellite+l300")

There i allready issued the realtek lan/wlan problem common in 8.10 and Suse 11 (worked fine in 8.04 and Suse 10.3). This seems to be fixed wonderfully.

Specifications
Name	Toshiba Satellite L300
Processor	Intel Celeron-M 550 2.0GHz
Screen	15.4&#8221; WXGA Widescreen
RAM	1GB
HDD	120GB
Optical Drive	DVD+-RW
Graphics	Intel Graphics Media Accelerator X3100
Network	Ethernet, 802.11bg

The laptop boasts the graphical Intel chipset, thus has blacklisted drivers for 9.04.
In Kubuntu i was able to use Desktop Effects right away. In Ubuntu i first had to disable the checking for graphical driver version, otherwise i just caught an error saying it couldn't be enabled.

Perhaps this is making it crash?
I haven't been able yet to test the laptop with a clean install or dual boot. If required, i might be able to test this in a few weeks.

---

