---
title: "[18.04.5] right-click command clear all meta tags from all mp3s in curr dir"
date: 2021-04-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by primuspaul on 2021-04-23
Trying to clear all mp3 tags from current dir in PCManFM 1.2.5. Currently have this:
```
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Action
Tooltip=RemoveID
Name=RemoveID
Profiles=profile-zero;
Icon=gtk-dialog-authentication

[X-Action-Profile profile-zero]
MimeTypes=inode/directory;
Exec=eyeD3 --remove-all /home/01_01.mp3
Name=Default profile
```

...in a file in /home/paul/.local/share/file-manager/actions

That works to remove the tags from that specific file from that specific directory, but I would like to change the script to work so that it does so to ALL mp3 files (*.mp3) and in whatever directory I right-clicked to click that command. Any idea?

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2021-04-24
Take a look at the [documentation for the 'Exec'-key]("https://specifications.freedesktop.org/desktop-entry-spec/latest/ar01s07.html") in .desktop files. Replace '/home/01_01.mp3' in the 'Exec'-line with '%f' for a single directory or with '%F' if you want to be able to mark multiple directories and have all the files in all of them processed in one go.

Holger

---

### Post by primuspaul on 2021-04-24
Thanks. Yes, that seems to be working. It works in the background - is it possible to make it work in a console or some way to show the progress and/or display some kind of alert once it finishes? Some folders contain many files so it's a bit time consuming and not always obvious when it's done.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2021-04-24
In Bash, recursion over a bunch of files is handled with the "*find exec*" command.  With *find*, it is a one liner to process many files.

---

### Post by primuspaul on 2021-04-24
> **HermanAB said:**
> In Bash, recursion over a bunch of files is handled with the "*find exec*" command.  With *find*, it is a one liner to process many files.
Sorry, I don't understand. So it's not possible to do that the way I want?

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2021-04-25
> **primuspaul said:**
> Sorry, I don't understand. So it's not possible to do that the way I want?

It is possible. HermanAB was just giving you an alternative way of doing what you want in the classic command line way. The problem with his method is that using find for recursion isn't necessary in this case since eyeD3 already does this itself.

I can think of multiple ways to get some indication of progress. First I would try simply having a line 'Terminal=True' in the .desktop file, but I'm not certain this works for actions. If it works you should get a terminal window showing the output of eye3d as it works. 

The next thing would be to replace the Exec-line with
```

Exec=bash -c "eyeD3 --remove-all %F | zenity --progress ---pulsate -auto-close"

```
The 'bash -c' is necessary since you can only have simple commands in a .desktop file; so we're calling the shell to execute a slightly more complicated command. This will give you a progress indicator that only really shows you that eyeD3 is still running, but that might be enough.

If you want a real indicator which gives you an idea of how far along the tag-removal is, things get more complicated; you'd need to write a real script for that; it would need to count the files to be processed, feed them to eyeD3 one by one and calculate percentages to give to zenity to display.

Holger

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2021-04-25
My suggestion may not be any use to you but I think what you're trying to do would be relatively easy using the custom actions of thunar, the file manager of Xubuntu.
I am using an Android tablet at the moment and can't remember the details so will wait till I'm back on Xubuntu and try and give you a way to do this. 

I do use a custom action to convert videos in a folder to mkv to make them available to Emby mediaserver,  so I think what you want should be possible.

---

