---
title: "10.10 Name of the login screen picture?"
date: 2010-10-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by silkworm2.5 on 2010-10-26
Hi.
Today I decided to customise my Ubuntu by installing my own picture over the default picture used in the log-in screen. I did a search and found it (in /usr/share/backgrounds).

I looked into it a bit and found that the image was a .jpg with the name changed to a .png extension. I though I copied the title of it but must have hit the wrong button.

I put my picture in the folder. I then copied the name of the file, then deleted it. I went to paste the name over my new picture, and then found that I had hit the wrong button to copy it.

When I delete things I usually hold shift to perma-delete it, so it isn't in the bin.

So, If anyone could help, I need to know what the file is called. It is just in the directory stated above. Thanks in advance!

Oh btw, I did this before in 10.04 and it worked in case anyone wants to do the same. It just needs to be a .jpg file, _renamed_ to end with .png

---

### Post by cam3roon on 2010-10-26
Hi. If I'm correct, isn't it a lot easier just to go to "About me" in the corner and change the picture there? I did that, it worked perfectly

---

### Post by silkworm2.5 on 2010-10-26
I'm talking about the wallpaper of the log-in screen. Not the user image. :)

---

### Post by cam3roon on 2010-10-26
ah..sorry. For that I used Ubuntu Tweak

---

### Post by sebikul on 2010-10-26
Hi, the "profile" picture you are talking about is located at "/home/USERNAME/.face", you will be able to see it opening your personal home folder and hitting a CTRL - H

btw, the file ".face" has to ext, so just replace, do not add a .png or .jpg at the end. Also leave the dot at the beginning

---

### Post by sebikul on 2010-10-26
you can change that picture using Ubuntu Tweak. install from this page, [http://ubuntu-tweak.com/downloads/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/downloads/), open it an head to "Login Settings"(or something similar, i have it in spanish)

---

### Post by silkworm2.5 on 2010-10-26
@Cam3roon Hmm, Ubuntu Tweak looks good! Gonna give it a go now! Thanks!

@Sebikul Again, I mean the log in wallpaper. Not the user image.

---

### Post by sebikul on 2010-10-26
read my last post, the answer to your question is on it, i started writing the first one just before you said it was the login wallpaper ;)

---

### Post by silkworm2.5 on 2010-10-26
Heh, thanks. Sorry I missed that XD

Um a slight problem. It isn't available for Ubuntu 10.10. I tried installing it, and it doesn't appear in the main menu anywhere. And on the homepage it says "The package is suitable under Hardy, Intrepid, Jaunty and Karmic." But not Maverick.

---

### Post by sebikul on 2010-10-26
to install do the following:

execute in a terminal:
```
# sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ppa:tualatrix/ppa
# sudo apt-get install ubuntu-tweak
```

that's it ;)

---

### Post by silkworm2.5 on 2010-10-26
I did that and just got "Error reading [https://launchpad.net/api/1.0/~ppa/+archive/ppa:](https://launchpad.net/api/1.0/~ppa/+archive/ppa:) HTTP Error 404: Not Found"

---

### Post by silkworm2.5 on 2010-10-26
Ok this is weird. I'm getting a 404 from the update manager too...

---

### Post by pinak.nubs on 2010-11-23
I was able to install it successfully. However, I am not able to add any pics in the background folder. As per the video ([http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jLD-N3BZRtI&feature=related](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jLD-N3BZRtI&feature=related)), I am missing the script option.
Any one has any ideas?

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2010-11-23
The way I change the login background picture is to make The Appearance-properties GUI
show up in the login window.In the terminal...
```
sudo cp /usr/share/applications/gnome-appearance-properties.desktop /usr/share/gdm/autostart/LoginWindow
```

Log out then choose the background tab in Appearances.
Click on the add button and navigate to where your wallpaper is saved.


Then log in and execute in the terminal 
```
sudo unlink /usr/share/gdm/autostart/LoginWindow/gnome-appearance-properties.desktop
```
To remove Appearances from the login window.

---

### Post by Aj264 on 2011-01-05
@ the original poster..if you are still interested and if this isn't a dead thread :p ... warty-final-ubuntu.png

---

### Post by freds3251 on 2011-05-06
I know this is an old subject, but I have a solution to those using 10.10 and can't install Tweak. I have a tutorial that can get you a new login screen picture without needing to install Tweak or anything else of that matter. Please send me a message if you would like me to email that tutorial.

---

