---
title: "10.10 will not boot!"
date: 2011-04-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gdea73 on 2011-04-16
I desperately need help, as Ubuntu is my only OS on this box.
I had this PC running as a server for a few months with few reboots.
I installed updates as usual yesterday, and hadn't changed anything configuration-wise since the last reboot. Well last night this server that I was running was moved to another Windows box and so I finally got to shut this PC down for the night. In the morning, I was greeted with an endless splash screen. It went on for 20 minutes without anything. I did update the kernel through update manager.


Here's what I've tried:
1) recovery mode. Still won't boot. I get this:
/dev/sda1: clean, 221977/60309504 files, 1296557/241220096 blocks
Modem-manager: Modemmanager (version 0.4) starting...
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Gobi
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Novatel
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Nokia
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin ZTE
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin MotoC
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin AnyData
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Sierra
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Ericsson MBM
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Generic
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Huawei
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin SimTech
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Option High-Speed
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Longcheer
Modem-manager: Loaded plugin Option
modem-manager: (TTY/ttyS1): Port's parent platform driver is not whitelisted
modem-manager: (TTY/ttyS2): Port's parent platform driver is not whitelisted
modem-manager: (TTY/ttyS3): Port's parent platform driver is not whitelisted
modem-manager: (TTY/ttyS1): could not get port's parent device
Password: _
(I can't type my password, nothing happens.)
2) older kernel. Didnt work. Either endless loading screen or this same error spending on recovery or not.

So what do I do? This machine has a 1TB HDD with a lot of very important data on it--reformatting is not a considerable option at this point. Which is bad because I don't know what else I could so when even recovery mode isn't working...

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2011-04-17
Wow, nothing?

...

This is really annoying. I tried removing, purging modem-manager but it didn't help.

If anyone else has this problem, in short, you're screwed. I reformatted.

:(

---

### Post by gdea73 on 2012-03-11
I believe what was eventually the cause of this problem was trying to automount a Samba share at boot, and hadn't restarted since I added that. The problem was it was protected with a password (even though the password was null) and so it hung on boot because it was trying to mount/access a "protected" share.

---

