---
title: "Modify xorg.conf"
date: 2009-06-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by papabill on 2009-06-14
How do I edit xorg.conf to make my video card/monitor work at 1024x768?

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-06-14
what kind of card do you have, and what does your xorg look like right now? also what version of ubuntu are you using? intrepid and jaunty lean away from using the xorg.conf.

---

### Post by papabill on 2009-06-14
According to the lspci, this is the video info:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: Silicon Integrated Systems [SiS] 661/741/760 PCI/AGP or 662/761Gx PCIE VGA Display Adapter (rev 03)

I'm running 9.04 Server now. Tried 8.02-1 and got the same problem. 

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
# sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Monitor "Configured Monitor"
Device "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by doas777 on 2009-06-15
I take it that displayconfig-gtk does not do what you need[I]? 
[/I]the new paradigm involves using xrandr to manipulate the graphics. but you can config your xorg based on the info here:
 [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=83973)

good luck

---

