---
title: "Should I scrap Kaola 9.10 and instead install Jaunty Jackanory 9.04?"
date: 2010-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by V,E.Day on 2010-01-31
[COLOR=Purple][COLOR=Magenta][B]I have been reading a lot of stuff on the Internet about Ubuntu Karamel Kaola 9.10 freezing for no apparent reason. Its a real pain for me because it happens regularly and when it happens I have to climb all the way under the desk and pull out the power lead that goes into the back of the machine as the keyboard and mouse both become completely unresponsive and the design of the On Switch on the front of my machine means it won't switch off from the front of the machine when it happens. I'm getting old and don't want to keep climbing under the desk. 

The problem isn't Compiz causing it as I suspected as such and disabled Compiz in favour of Metacity as my first attempt to cure it. It hasn't made any difference. 

Nor is this a hardware problem as I have run this machine on both Linux Mint and Windows XP before choosing Ubuntu 9.10. I didn't get this complete system freeze problem with either of those two operating systems, only with Ubuntu 9.10. 

Nearly all the stuff I have read on the Internet about this problem is from people saying they are suffering this problem on 9.10 but that it never used to happen on Ubuntu Jaunty Jackanory 9.04. 

So should I delete Karamel Kaola 9.10 and instead install Jaunty Jackanory 9.04 ?  
Will this eleviate the problem? 
Will there be a new host of problems if I do this?

I don't care if the Jaunty Jackanory is a bit out of date, I would rather have a working reliable stable system than a modern up to date version that doesn't work. So should I scrap Kaola and install Jaunty?

What are the pitfalls, if any, of scrapping Kaola and installing Jaunty Jackanory instead?  
[/B][/COLOR]
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by yester64 on 2010-01-31
If i may share my experience.
I don't have any freezes really with 9.10 (64bit) and i am very happy with it.
But i do noticed that if i replace compiz, the desktop freezes. I run metacity instead and sometimes my bars are not there. Menu's can be still used though.
My suspicion is that it is either desktop managers what makes it freeze or the gfx driver.
If you run it without any eyecandy, it will not freeze. At least it never did on my computer.

I know its not a big help, but i wanted to share my experience.

---

### Post by V,E.Day on 2010-01-31
[B][COLOR=Magenta]
Thanks for the reply. 
I have the same problem regardless of whether I use Compiz or Metacity. I am therefore wondering if there is any value in scrapping Ubuntu 9.10 and replacing it with Ubuntu 9.04. Will I get the same problem or a whole load of new problems if I do that?[/COLOR][/B]

---

### Post by JoeWheeler on 2010-01-31
Well, I've never had this problem with 9.10 but it's impossible to say whether you should switch back without knowing your system specs

---

### Post by yester64 on 2010-01-31
Honestly, i don't know.
I switched over as 9.10 got released. I will mention that i had freezes the first time i upgraded. But i used the alternative image and not the regular one.
So far nothing freezes with 9.10 anymore. I use Metacity and the only issue i really have is that the bars are disappearing from time to time. Its kinda random.

My advise is, if you really have this issue with constant freezing, you may downgrade. Of course backing up everything so you do not loose anything.
Also, before doing that, try to update the system. Maybe that solves it already.
Particular your graphics-driver. Mine is Nvidia.

Or, try to disable for a while the visual effects and see if the system freezes or not. The best way to surround a problem is to isolate it.

So before downgrading consider this steps. There may be other ones, but these are the ones that come to my mind.

---

### Post by bingobingo on 2010-01-31
I say downgrade, I have the same problem, CPU overload. I have gkrellm running all the time and you can see exactly when in starts to freeze up and there is nothing to stop it. I never could do any eyecandy so that is not doing it and it does not matter what desktop manager is running. I use to be able to run it an hour or so before freeze, now it is as soon as I boot in. Damnit, and I really liked 9.10! Damnit!

---

### Post by yester64 on 2010-01-31
Mm.. i would tie it to the hardware.
Here, thats the hardware i run and it does not freeze on me. So far...
Perhaps that helps somewhat.

```
System information report, generated by Sysinfo: 1/31/2010 4:47:06 PM
http://sourceforge.net/projects/gsysinfo

SYSTEM INFORMATION
    Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 9.10 (karmic) release.
    GNOME: 2.28.1 (Ubuntu 2009-11-03)
    Kernel version: 2.6.31-18-generic (#55-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 8 14:54:52 UTC 2010)
    GCC: 4.4.1 (x86_64-linux-gnu)
    Xorg: unknown (14 November 2009  05:48:57PM) (14 November 2009  05:48:57PM)
    Hostname: joerg-desktop
    Uptime: 0 days 10 h 17 min

CPU INFORMATION
    GenuineIntel, Intel(R) Core(TM)2 CPU         E8500  @ 3.16GHz
    Number of CPUs: 2
    CPU clock currently at 3166.959 MHz with 6144 KB cache
    Numbering: family(6) model(23) stepping(10)
    Bogomips: 6333.91
    Flags: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm pbe syscall nx lm constant_tsc arch_perfmon pebs bts rep_good pni monitor tm2 ssse3 lahf_lm

MEMORY INFORMATION
    Total memory: 3962 MB
    Total swap: 0 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
    SCSI device -  scsi0
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  WDC WD3200KS-00P 
    SCSI device -  scsi1
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  WDC WD5000AAKS-0 
    SCSI device -  scsi4
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  WDC WD1600AAJS-0 
    SCSI device -  scsi6
        Vendor:  _NEC     
        Model:  DVD_RW ND-3550A  

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
    Host bridge
        Intel Corporation 82G33/G31/P35/P31 Express DRAM Controller (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device 5000
    PCI bridge(s)
        Intel Corporation 82G33/G31/P35/P31 Express PCI Express Root Port (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 4 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) PCI Express Port 5 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev 92) (prog-if 01)
    USB controller(s)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #5 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #6 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #2 (rev 02) (prog-if 20)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 02)
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) USB2 EHCI Controller #1 (rev 02) (prog-if 20)
    ISA bridge
        Intel Corporation 82801IB (ICH9) LPC Interface Controller (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device 5001
    IDE interface
        JMicron Technology Corp. JMB368 IDE controller (prog-if 85 [Master SecO PriO])
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device b000

GRAPHIC CARD
    VGA controller
        nVidia Corporation G92 [GeForce 8800 GT] (rev a2)
        Subsystem: eVga.com. Corp. Device c809

SOUND CARD
    Multimedia controller
        Intel Corporation 82801I (ICH9 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device a002

NETWORK
    Ethernet controller
        Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8111/8168B PCI Express Gigabit Ethernet controller (rev 01)
        Subsystem: Giga-byte Technology Device e000

NVIDIA GRAPHIC CARD INFORMATION
    Model name: GeForce 8800 GT
    Card Type: PCI-E 16x
    Video RAM: 1024 MB
    GPU Frequency: 600 MHz
    Driver version: NVIDIA UNIX x86_64 Kernel Module  185.18.36  Fri Aug 14 17:35:21 PDT 2009
```

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2010-02-22
> **V,E.Day said:**
> [COLOR=Purple][COLOR=Magenta][B]I have been reading a lot of stuff on the Internet about Ubuntu Karamel Kaola 9.10 freezing for no apparent reason. Its a real pain for me because it happens regularly and when it happens I have to climb all the way under the desk and pull out the power lead that goes into the back of the machine as the keyboard and mouse both become completely unresponsive and the design of the On Switch on the front of my machine means it won't switch off from the front of the machine when it happens. I'm getting old and don't want to keep climbing under the desk. 

The problem isn't Compiz causing it as I suspected as such and disabled Compiz in favour of Metacity as my first attempt to cure it. It hasn't made any difference. 

Nor is this a hardware problem as I have run this machine on both Linux Mint and Windows XP before choosing Ubuntu 9.10. I didn't get this complete system freeze problem with either of those two operating systems, only with Ubuntu 9.10. 

Nearly all the stuff I have read on the Internet about this problem is from people saying they are suffering this problem on 9.10 but that it never used to happen on Ubuntu Jaunty Jackanory 9.04. 

So should I delete Karamel Kaola 9.10 and instead install Jaunty Jackanory 9.04 ?  
Will this eleviate the problem? 
Will there be a new host of problems if I do this?

I don't care if the Jaunty Jackanory is a bit out of date, I would rather have a working reliable stable system than a modern up to date version that doesn't work. So should I scrap Kaola and install Jaunty?

What are the pitfalls, if any, of scrapping Kaola and installing Jaunty Jackanory instead?  
[/B][/COLOR]
[/COLOR]


Typos. [-X

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-02-22
Freezing problem? Please remove or disable any proprietary graphics drivers and see if that works. You can temporarily disable your proprietary driver by modifing /etc/X11/xorg.conf to use your card's open-source driver (for instance, "nv" or "ati" instead of "nvidia" and "fglrx").

If that doesn't fix the problem, then use Phoronix Test Suite to run a memory benchmark. If it freezes while doing this, then you've got faulty RAM bud.

---

### Post by jenaniston on 2010-02-22
Well I *did* go back to Jaunty . . .

U9.10 Karmic Koala has grub2 which just kinda got in the way in my particular situation.

The installer from Karmic's live version obviously tried to be more friendly-appearing
 to all the new Ubuntu users - but until I clicked into an "Advanced Options" screen/button . . .
 I* never even saw* that grub2 was getting installed to an odd choice of partition for what I really needed.

I have suggested that they make the location the installer chooses for the bootloader more ***obvious ***. . . (like Fedora ***does***)
 so it ***can*** be corrected if the Ubuntu installer "guesses" wrong.

. . .someone in the linuxquestions forum said it well with

"like KDE 4, grub2 will be good*** someday*** . . . but it's not there yet."

So if necessary, Ubuntu 9.04 is still a fine place to start out in linux, imho.

Good luck any way you choose.

---

### Post by honey toast on 2010-02-22
That's too bad that you are having trouble with the new Ubuntu release. So it is freezing up on you?... I can't imagine why. Could it be he iso that you used to install Karmic? IDK, I'm just trying to weed out the possibilities, because it is not freezing up on me. Did you do a clean Karmic install, or was it an upgrade? These are two factors that might have an impact of the freezing you described. Try to install both ways and see what happens. I hope you can get it configed.

---

### Post by zipperback on 2010-03-11
If you are wanting to run an earlier version of Ubuntu rather than the current release, then I would strongly urge you to install Ubuntu 8.04 LTS.

Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron) is the LTS version which stands for "Long Term Support" and it will be maintained until April 2011, whereas Ubuntu 9.04 will only be maintained until October 2010.

Check out the release / end of life schedules for Ubuntu versions on the following page:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Releases)

I hope you find this information useful.

zipperback
:popcorn:

---

### Post by gwpritch on 2010-03-11
I had similar problems with Karmic from the beginning on my Laptop. Tried everything: drivers, compiz/metacity etc etc.
With 1.7 GHz and 1.5G Ram it should not have been freezing, but did constantly.
I switched back to Jaunty and all is happily ever after. I'm hoping Lucid will allow me to jump back on the train :)

---

