---
title: "10.04 bad shutdown, now can't boot"
date: 2011-10-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by PuckstopperGA on 2011-10-05
Hi,

My google-fu is failing me at the moment, as I can't seem to find what I'm looking for.

I have a system with 10.04 installed. Everything was going swimingly until a bad shutdown. After the bad shutdown, it demanded to do a disk check at boot. I obliged, but it stayed at 0% for about 12hrs. I rebooted a few times, trying to cancel or let it run, but it always stayed stuck at 0%.

Now when I attempt to boot, I only get a blinking cursor. I tried holding shift at boot, but Grub would not load. So I put a livecd in, and it gives me the error that "the installer encountered an unrecoverable error" and then it sends me to a desktop session.

I can browse the boot drive just fine once I'm into a livecd session. I've edited fstab to remove the forced disk check.

Can anyone point me in the right direction on this? Most of what I've found via google is people trying to do a first install on a system that doesn't support linux - so not too helpful for this particular situation.

Thanks!

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-10-05
Boot off a livecd and force a fsck on the OS drive.

```
sudo fsck -fC /dev/sda1
```

---

### Post by PuckstopperGA on 2011-10-05
All checks passed, but still have the blinking cursor.

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-10-05
Are you able to boot off the livecd and select "recover system" ?

Sounds like grub is having problems loading.

---

### Post by PuckstopperGA on 2011-10-05
Ok well I feel silly. I had reset BIOS to factory defaults (it was having its own issues, part of being a 7 year old mobo). The system was attempting to boot to the wrong drive.

Fixed that, but still was getting pestered by disk checks. It was on the other (non-boot) drive. I commented it out of fstab, and finally was able to boot again. 

Thanks for your suggestions, though! :)

---

