---
title: "12.04 hanging"
date: 2012-05-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bikertappy on 2012-05-20
Hi folks, I've recently bought a new PC and installed 12.04.
Every now and then it just completely hangs - the screen freezes, and sound that's playing starts looping or stuttering, and it's totally unresponsive to keyboard or mouse.

The only way I can bring it back is to force a power-down by holding the power button in.

Is there some other way to retrieve the system? Is there some way of getting a diagnostics dump so that I can try and identify the root cause?

I've tried dmesg but I'm afraid it doesn't mean much to me, and presumably this only records what happens from the time of the PC being booted up again, not the actual even that caused the crash?

I've used Xdiagnose and this tells me:
pci0000:00: ACPI_OSC request failed (AE_ERROR), returned control mask : 0x1d
[drm:pch_irq_handler] *ERROR* PCH poison interrupt.

Is this useful?

---

### Post by rai4shu2 on 2012-05-20
I would suggest this (although it gets a little technical):

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DebuggingSystemCrash](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/DebuggingSystemCrash)

---

### Post by bikertappy on 2012-05-23
Right then. I've run memtest86 from the GRUB menu.
The first time I ran it, it actually ran for about 15 minutes and then got hung on some of the random number sequence tests.
Since then I've left it running overnight then checked it and it was fine with no errors.

---

### Post by bikertappy on 2012-05-23
The system continues to crash - I've visited the link rai4shu2 gave me, and have tried "Alt SysRq +1" and "Alt SysRq +t" and they do nothing - the system is totally unresponsive.

---

### Post by bikertappy on 2012-05-23
I've also looked at the /var/log/kern.log and I don't *think* the crashes are being caught by that.
I'm happy to post great swathes of it, but:
 typically the log from the crashed session ends a few minutes before the crash (presumably the kernel isn't doing anything terribly exciting while I'm just surfing the 'net)
then the log re-starts with what looks like the system booting, lists a load of stuff about cleaning up orphans etc. so I don't *think* the crash is logged in it. 
I don't really know what I'm looking at / for though.

---

### Post by rai4shu2 on 2012-05-23
> **bikertappy said:**
> Right then. I've run memtest86 from the GRUB menu.
The first time I ran it, it actually ran for about 15 minutes and then got hung on some of the random number sequence tests.
Since then I've left it running overnight then checked it and it was fine with no errors.

Random failures are a sign of hardware problems. There's no point in looking for a software solution to a hardware problem. You can either seek hardware guidance or just put up with the hanging.

---

### Post by wiggly81 on 2012-05-23
i have had a similar problem in the past and after much frustration i started removing / disabling hardware and in my case it turned out to be a 5 port usb 2.0 pci card. still to this day don't know why as the card was not even being used at the time but hey ho since removing it i have not had an issue.

---

### Post by Sidney232 on 2012-05-24
I have had exactly the same problem and I'd like to run memtest86+ too. I'm having trouble finding out how to access the GRUB2 menu. Anyone know how to trigger this? I'm running a single install of 12.04 64-bit. I've tried changing a few of the settings in /etc/default/grub but nothing I change seems to trigger the GRUB2 menus on booting.

---

### Post by bikertappy on 2012-05-24
Update: 
After passing memory tests, I figured maybe it was software and was *fairly* sure that the problems had only occurred when Firefox was running. So I looked at other browsers and found someone else that suggested Firefox made his install of 12.04 hang too. I'm now running Chrome and have had no further hangs. I'll reserve judgement for a while, but if it stays good I'll change the thread to solved. It may be a flash issue rather than Firefox itself, but I've got fingers crossed.

---

### Post by bikertappy on 2012-05-24
Sidney:
If you look in /etc/default/grub you'll see a reference to: 
info -f grub -n 'Simple configuration'
Whack it into a terminal.
The problem I had with my fresh 12.04 was the GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT and GRUB_HIDDEN_QUIET_TIMEOUT
The info says that as default they're both unspecified, so I just deleted them. Hey presto - I now get a grub menu!
I guess the dev guys tried to hide it to avoid scaring people even less experienced than myself? Dunno - personally the more information I have the better. Note that's "information", not "data" :p
Anyways, that might give you grub, and might give you memtest, but see my previous post - my problem *may* have been Firefox related. I type this having had no hangs this evening, and 4 or 5 the previous 5 evenings so here's hoping...

---

### Post by Sidney232 on 2012-05-25
Thanks, I got impatient in the end and created myself a memtest disk. Anyway the memory's fine. One lock up this evening and it was while Firefox was running.

---

### Post by bikertappy on 2012-05-25
Hmmm, well so far it's hung once, in about 20 hours' use. That was when clicking on an item in the software centre.
So - anyone have any suggestions on how to start diagnosing the problem?

---

### Post by compaqhlr on 2012-06-10
My computer hangs frequently after high CPU usage.  Both mouse and keyboard completely no response. My work-around solution is to disable the DRM_KMS_POLLING feature, which can cause high CPU usage (more than 50%).

The  work-around solution is to disable this feature, specific changes are as follows:
login root and temporarily disable polling:

echo N > /sys/module/drm_kms_helper/parameters/poll
or
echo "options drm_kms_helper poll=N" >> /etc/modprobe.d/local.conf

Also take a look to install a new version kernel 3.4 for Ivy Bridge CPUs.
ref: [http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-install-linux-kernel-3-4-0-on-ubuntu-12-0411-10/](http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-install-linux-kernel-3-4-0-on-ubuntu-12-0411-10/)

---

### Post by andriansah on 2012-10-06
> **bikertappy said:**
> Sidney:
If you look in /etc/default/grub you'll see a reference to: 
info -f grub -n 'Simple configuration'
Whack it into a terminal.
The problem I had with my fresh 12.04 was the GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT and GRUB_HIDDEN_QUIET_TIMEOUT
The info says that as default they're both unspecified, so I just deleted them. Hey presto - I now get a grub menu!
I guess the dev guys tried to hide it to avoid scaring people even less experienced than myself? Dunno - personally the more information I have the better. Note that's "information", not "data" :p
Anyways, that might give you grub, and might give you memtest, but see my previous post - my problem *may* have been Firefox related. I type this having had no hangs this evening, and 4 or 5 the previous 5 evenings so here's hoping...

Hi
I have the same problem too, I want to try you solution first, I hope my laptop not hang anymore

Thanks

---

### Post by OmeshMacherla on 2012-10-06
I am new to this forum and finding difficulty reating a new thread. So updating this thread. 
My problem : I tried to udgrade my system from the 11.10 to 12.04. During the installation package, out of curiosity i tried to access a file which was allowing me to do that. But as soon as i opened the document, the entire screen went blank and nothing came back. After a long time i had to hardboot the laptop. 
 
Now my laptop isn't getting booted up as i guess everything went out of control in the middle of the installtion.
 
I tried all possible options to get the system recovered, but all in vain. After lots and lots of tries of recovering the system i tried to format the system using DBAN, but this isnt working and giving the error "reading sectors error(EOD)"
 
Please advise how to get my laptop back. I am really pissed.
 
Please can anyone navigate me how to create a new post/thread.
 
Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by andriansah on 2012-10-08
> **compaqhlr said:**
> My computer hangs frequently after high CPU usage.  Both mouse and keyboard completely no response. My work-around solution is to disable the DRM_KMS_POLLING feature, which can cause high CPU usage (more than 50%).

The  work-around solution is to disable this feature, specific changes are as follows:
login root and temporarily disable polling:

echo N > /sys/module/drm_kms_helper/parameters/poll
or
echo "options drm_kms_helper poll=N" >> /etc/modprobe.d/local.conf


Hi
Can I make it permanent? so I don't have to do it everytime I booting?

Thanks

---

### Post by compaqhlr on 2012-10-14
I test for kernel 3.3 and 3.5, for me it's *Ok*, nothing to report.

[]("http://ubuntuguide.net/how-to-install-linux-kernel-3-4-0-on-ubuntu-12-0411-10/")

---

### Post by abif on 2013-01-23
yes you may be right, each time i open firefox it just freezes and i have to power boot again. i am going to try installing chrome to see if it works. i am not a big fan of chrome but beggars cannot be choosers.

---

