---
title: "16.04 LTS &quot;Failed Download Repository Info&quot;"
date: 2016-06-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kernalkorn on 2016-06-23
My recent install Ubuntu 16.04 LTS on 3 completely different systems (1 Atomx32, 1 Intel 2708x32, 1 Intel C2Dx64). I get a notice - "Important OS and App Softw Updates Available".  Then it "Kindof" updates, but first I get the msg "failed to download repository information".  then I click OK and it does retrieve some files.  My i-net service is working perfectly.  Initial install from ISO DVD and initial massive OS updates went smoothly. Finally, it does report "software on this computer up-to-date". 


I used the following commands:
sudo apt-get update (found several hundred kb files failed to download a ppa launchpad)
sudo apt-get upgrade (several new packages)
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade (zero results)


The Ubuntu Software Updater is one of the most reliable and admirable aspects of my recent several years of using v12>v16.  Up until now I've never had a problem.  So what has changed?  Should I be worried important security patches will be missed?  How can I correct this "Failed Download Repository Info" state?  What does this mean? Is this message merely pertaining to a single ppa app that can't get updates?  


My guess is I have an obsolete ppa app that is not listed in the synaptic inventory.  So if I was able to install it in the first place, they must have chnged their repository location since then, right?  Is this normal? Security Risk? Is everything else OK?


I think I know what the app is, but this "failed" msg is still scary.  Error msg needs to be more specific.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2016-06-23
Please copy and paste the complete output of ```
sudo apt update
```

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-06-23
Each version of Ubuntu has its own group of repositories and that includes Personal Package Archives (PPA). It is most certainly possible that a PPA that was useful in 14.04 has not been updated to work with 16.04. And therefore, the PPA does not exist for 16.04 and that will produce an error message about failure to download repository information.

Regards.

---

### Post by kernalkorn on 2016-06-24
I looked up the new source for the ppa that was causing the problem, removed the oldfiles and reinstalled the application.  

OLD:
[https://itsfoss.com/record-streaming-audio/](https://itsfoss.com/record-streaming-audio/)
NEW:
[https://launchpad.net/~audio-recorder/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~audio-recorder/+archive/ubuntu/ppa)

No More "Failed Repository" msg.  Thanks - I had to talk myself through it.

---

### Post by moma on 2016-07-23
Yes, the packages have been moved (from my personal repo) to the team repo.

---

