---
title: "10.04 Lucid~how do I change two drives into one file sys"
date: 2011-07-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KEE on 2011-07-22
hello,
I made 2 partitions from one hard drive but my drive is getting too full so I want to change to one again. please help

---

### Post by Lars Noodén on 2011-07-22
That's kind of hard to do after the drives are already in use.  

One way is to back up everything to an external drive or another computer. 

(You might have to do the following booting from CD in rescue mode if either or both are key to your system.)

Then unmount and remove both partitions, then create a new partition in it and format it.  Then restore from the backup.

---

### Post by altometer on 2011-07-22
1) Back up all your personal data.
2) Boot into Gparted on a live CD
3) Delete the second partition and extend the first one.(MAKE SURE GRUB IS NOT INSTALLED ON THE SECOND PARTITION)
4) Restore your data.

Alternatively, Move some of your data over. Re-partitioning your drive will not magically grant your disk more room.

---

### Post by KEE on 2011-07-22
> **altometer said:**
> 1) Back up all your personal data.
2) Boot into Gparted on a live CD
3) Delete the second partition and extend the first one.(MAKE SURE GRUB IS NOT INSTALLED ON THE SECOND PARTITION)
4) Restore your data.

Alternatively, Move some of your data over. Re-partitioning your drive will not magically grant your disk more room.

how do you extend?

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-07-22
Click resize, then drag the appropriate edge and drag it to the size you want the partition to be.

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2011-07-22
And don't forget that "BACK UP YOUR DATA" part that is important.

I would also advise backing up your data just in case.

---

