---
title: "[ 8.04] Failing to shut down"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by snirpyor on 2008-04-25
Shutdown hangs at a blank screen. When choosing 'shut down' or 'restart' the system starts to shut down. I first get to a blank screen with a mouse pointer and then the pointer disappears and nothing further happens.

The shutdown screen never appears. Some HDD activity can initially be heard, but the only way out of it is the reset button.

This happens indiscriminately after boot or after using applications.

Can I somehow troubleshoot this? Are there logs to be viewed of the shutdown process?

---

### Post by Lightstar on 2008-04-25
I have the same problem, and if I force-quit / force-close that window, I can't open up anything after.. clicking the terminal doesn't do anything and opening any program will either result in another blank window or no window at all

---

### Post by ceb0 on 2008-04-26
I have the same problem with shutdown, restart and logout.  A 'sudo shutdown -r now' etc works with no probs.  I've seen some discussion about a similar bug on kubuntu forums but the blame there was placed on ati drivers, I'm using nvidia.

---

### Post by Cue2 on 2008-04-26
I just started a new thread about the same problem (didn't find this one). Out of curiosity what graphics card do you have and can everybody confirm that it happens when you logout so that APM and ACPI is out of the question.

---

### Post by snirpyor on 2008-04-26
I too suspect the ATI drivers might be the issue.

Should have mentioned it in the first post. The shutdown went fine after installation. After installing an amount of packages, among which the catalyst drivers, the shutdown hung.

To further substantiate the suspicion: in the process of reinstalling the ATI drivers, I had a reboot without a hitch.

[U]
Please add your drivers to this topic:[/U]
[B]780g / 8200 gpu
8.4 ATI catalyst drivers[/B]


update:
```

sudo shutdown -r now

```
Gives a proper reboot. My 2 cents: some ATI process requires root privilege to be killed off. 



ceb0: can you give a link to the kubuntu forum reporting this bug?

---

### Post by pompos on 2008-04-27
any new news of fixing this problem?

---

### Post by mudbwetdirt on 2008-05-01
I am a total newbie to Kubuntu.
I fixed it by starting in restore or what ever it is, did the repair X thing. Seems to have fixed the shut down trouble with fglrx only tested restart so far.

Edit: Ok it shuts down now the first thing I tried was to use just ati but couldn't change screen size. The repair X thing worked for me. I hope it works for you let me know if it was a fluke or if it really works.

---

### Post by Cue2 on 2008-07-04
> **mudbwetdirt said:**
> I am a total newbie to Kubuntu.
I fixed it by starting in restore or what ever it is, did the repair X thing. Seems to have fixed the shut down trouble with fglrx only tested restart so far.

Edit: Ok it shuts down now the first thing I tried was to use just ati but couldn't change screen size. The repair X thing worked for me. I hope it works for you let me know if it was a fluke or if it really works.

Can you explain how you did the repair x thing (newbie here):P)

---

