---
title: "10.04 Issues"
date: 2010-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2010-04-24
Hi All,
I just installed 10.04 and am having an issue with the key coming up again and again.  I have used only one password to login and thought that should be it.  But every time I start up it requests the key PW and it won't take the sudo PW.  

Also I have found I have re-enter the PW to my wireless router every time.  It does not save this info. 

Another issue I am having is concerning SAS, statistical analytical system software.  I was able to install this program on  9.10.  I followed the same exact instructions for installing on 10.04 but now I get an error that says, 'Could not launch Ap' failed to execute child process "usr/local/SAS/SASFoundation/9.2/sas' (No such file or directory).  That is foolish...

Also cannot obtain files off Ubuntu One, as well.

Any suggestions,
M

---

### Post by azurehi on 2010-04-24
1.  lucid gnome rc:  upon beginning installation, mouse cursor is a dark square.  After installation and re-boot, the cursor is practically invisible.  I activated hardware driver(s), re-booted and normal cursor is now visible.  

Any explanations appreciated.

2.  lucid xubuntu rc:  the installation fails about 1/3 of the way through, despite downloading image again and burning at lowest speed.  The mouse cursor is Invisble from the start, which makes installation Very difficult to begin with.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-04-25
> **oaxacamatt1 said:**
> 
.........
Another issue I am having is concerning SAS, statistical analytical system software.  I was able to install this program on  9.10.  I followed the same exact instructions for installing on 10.04 but now I get an error that says, 'Could not launch Ap' failed to execute child process "usr/local/SAS/SASFoundation/9.2/sas' (No such file or directory).  That is foolish...


Installed 64-bit, did you?

---

### Post by vtflair on 2010-06-16
> Another issue I am having is concerning SAS, statistical analytical  system software.  I was able to install this program on  9.10.  I  followed the same exact instructions for installing on 10.04 but now I  get an error that says, 'Could not launch Ap' failed to execute child  process "usr/local/SAS/SASFoundation/9.2/sas' (No such file or  directory).

oaxacamatt1, I'm having the same problem and wondered if you ever found a resolution. Running SAS 9.2 64-bit on a brand new 10.04 64-bit machine.

BTW, I followed some of your earlier instructions for installing SAS. Very helpful!

---

### Post by vtflair on 2010-06-17
[FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black]> **vtflair said:**
> oaxacamatt1, I'm having the same problem and wondered if you ever found a resolution. Running SAS 9.2 64-bit on a brand new 10.04 64-bit machine.[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT] [FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black]

[/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]     [FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black][COLOR=#0F243E]Well, as much as I hate to admit it publically, I finally realized the directory path was incorrect. [/COLOR][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black][COLOR=#0F243E]After working on this overall project for a few days, and running on too little sleep,  I must have become blind to this. Once I corrected it, SAS 9.2 64-bit runs fine on 10.04 64-bit.[/COLOR][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT]
[SIZE=2][COLOR=Black]
[/COLOR][/SIZE]
[SIZE=2][COLOR=Black]Thanks to oaxacamatt1 for his help on this via private message.[/COLOR][/SIZE]
[FONT=Times New Roman][SIZE=2][COLOR=Black][COLOR=#0F243E][/COLOR][/COLOR][/SIZE][/FONT][COLOR=#0F243E][/COLOR]

---

