---
title: "and windows xp dualboot problems"
date: 2010-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by deviator on 2010-09-09
So i was on my windows xp partition and it kept freezing up so i restarted manually and to my surprise i was getting two short beeps and one long beep.

i removed my graphics card, reset my bios and booted up using the onboard graphics card. 

ubuntu works fine but whenever i try to boot into windows it shows the xp loading screen for about two seconds then the computer restarts.

any ideas?:sad:

---

### Post by mr clark25 on 2010-09-09
this sounds like a problem within XP, so you may not get many hits here. 

try a windows forum?

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-09-09
I would try a f8 prompt to get to the safe mode...etc screen. You can start a ```
chkdsk /f/r
``` from the command line to run on reboot I would do this.

Beyond that you can post the bootscript in my signature, in code tags as described. You can also put the text in code tags by clicking on the # in the reply panel.

---

### Post by deviator on 2010-09-10
bah, the computer won't even boot up the windows xp cd to run the recovery console (i get a blue screen with white writing telling me i don't have enough memory/ram)

i googled and found that some systems have problems booting the windows xp cd due to "flags" or something like that.

any way i can run chkdsk on my ntfs partition from ubuntu? (it's the same partition as the ubuntu one so i don't think i can umount it....)

this just in, the windows partition won't even mount in ubuntu...i don't get it, it's part of the same damn HDD ARGH:@

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-09-10
> **deviator said:**
> bah, the computer won't even boot up the windows xp cd to run the recovery console (i get a blue screen with white writing telling me i don't have enough memory/ram)

i googled and found that some systems have problems booting the windows xp cd due to "flags" or something like that.

**any way i can run chkdsk on my ntfs partition from ubuntu? (it's the same partition as the ubuntu one so i don't think i can umount it....)**

this just in, the windows partition won't even mount in ubuntu...i don't get it, it's part of the same damn HDD ARGH:@

The highlighted part; are you referring to a wubi install.

Please give us the OS set up and your computer specs.

It is unlikely any flags? I have never heard of are causing a no boot for the XP disc. Anything is possible though.

The best way to boot a cd or any boot device is from a key prompt at start. Some are f-key, mine is f12, sometimes it is the esc. Look it up on the web if you can.

---

### Post by deviator on 2010-09-10
well these guys talk about the flags and having problems with windows xp afterwards. i tried removing the boot flags off my hdd with gparted but nothing.
[http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/suse-novell-60/windows-xp-installation-cd-doesnt-boot-after-suse-installation-381216/](http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/suse-novell-60/windows-xp-installation-cd-doesnt-boot-after-suse-installation-381216/)

attatched is a picture similar to what i get when the recovery console boots up (also tried downloading just the recovery console as an .iso, but i get the same message)

i managed to mount the windows partition (under ubuntu) with a reboot.

my computer specs are:

4gb ram
Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Quad CPU    Q6700  @ 2.66GHz
currently using onboard graphics card due to it blowing up (im assuming)

2 x 500gb seagate drives

1 for backups and files the other has ubuntu installed primarily and a 100gb windows xp partition.

anything else?

---

### Post by JBAlaska on 2010-09-10
First check to see if that is a fake screen generated by a virus by doing a ctrl-alt-del to see if task manager comes up, if so it's a [fake bsod](http://www.virusremovalchicago.com/2010/04/23/is-spcmdcon-sys-a-virus/)

If not fake:

[quote="Microsoft Says"]Stop 0x00000050 or PAGE_FAULT_IN_NONPAGED_AREA

The Stop 0x50 message indicates that requested data was not in memory. The system generates an exception error when using a reference to an invalid system memory address. [B]Defective memory (including main memory, L2 RAM cache, [COLOR="Red"]video RAM[/COLOR]) or incompatible software (including remote control and antivirus software) might cause Stop 0x50 messages.
[/B]
Possible Resolutions:

# If you added new hardware recently, remove and replace the hardware to determine if it is causing or contributing to the problem. Run diagnostics software supplied by the hardware manufacturer to determine if the component has failed.

# Stop 0x50 messages can also occur after installing faulty drivers or system services. If the file name is listed, you need to disable, remove, or roll back that driver. If not, disable the recently installed service or application to determine if this resolves the error. If this does not resolve the problem, contact the hardware manufacturer for updates. Using updated drivers and software is especially important for network interface cards, video adapters, backup programs, multimedia applications, antivirus scanners, and CD mastering tools. If an updated driver is not available, attempt to use a driver from a similar device in the same family. For example, if printing to a Model 1100C printer causes Stop 0x50 errors, using a printer driver meant for a Model 1100A or Model 1000 might temporarily resolve the problem.
[/quote]

[Link-1](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;Q310628)
[Link-2](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;Q310869)

---

### Post by deviator on 2010-09-10
> **JBAlaska said:**
> [Link-1](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;Q310628)
[Link-2](http://support.microsoft.com/default.aspx?scid=kb;en-us;Q310869)

it's not the exact error msg, it's just what the screen looks like.

i'm working on getting the exact error message.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-09-10
The flags mentioned are for the ntfs partition, this would make it active, in Ubuntu it doesn't matter. So your bootable XP partition should be marked as boot if you look at it in gparted. flag=boot, at least in this case, there are other flags possible in some setups.

Your posts for me at least are hard to decipher, where are you at?

It would be helpful for you to post the bootscript to get a larger view of the whole setup.

---

### Post by deviator on 2010-09-10
what's hard to decipher exactly?

i'm not sure how to output the bootscript.

do you mean the contents of /etc/rc.local ?

---

### Post by deviator on 2010-09-10
this is the exact error message i receive when i try to boot into recovery console with the windows xp disc;

please note i've also tried to use hiren's boot cd and i managed to run chkdsk /f/r c:

the problem still occurs when trying to boot to windows xp (loading screen for a second then resets)

---

### Post by deviator on 2010-09-10
bump

i can't even reformat my windows xp partition because the stupid xp disc won't boot up.

do you think it could be a problem with the xp disc itself being an old version of it. could the drivers on the xp disc be causing this problem?

---

### Post by deviator on 2010-09-11
bump

doesn't look like anybody knows whats going on

---

