---
title: "9.04 Server, Webmin 1.470, Login failed"
date: 2009-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hunterjelly on 2009-04-30
I installed Webmin 1.470 on my Ubuntu 9.04 server, but I cannot log into Webmin. Each time I try it gives me a "Login Failed" error. I have tried totally reinstalling the OS and setting Webmin up again a couple of times. Only once was I able to actually log into Webmin, but lost the ability after a reboot. I have tried changing the users Webmin password, I tried giving the root a password and logging in that way but in all cases I can`t get in.

The commands I used to install Webmin are:
```

sudo aptitude install perl libnet-ssleay-perl openssl libauthen-pam-perl libpam-runtime libio-pty-perl libmd5-perl
```and

```
sudo dpkg -i webmin_1.470_all.deb
```which I got from [http://www.ubuntugeek.com/ubuntu-serverinstall-gui-and-webmin-in-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-guide.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/ubuntu-serverinstall-gui-and-webmin-in-ubuntu-810-intrepid-ibex-guide.html)

In the past, with Ubuntu server 8.10, this worked perfectly.

Does anybody have any suggestions? Do those packages no longer apply or have changed in 9.04? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-04-30
You should be using your regular user name and password to access webmin.

---

### Post by Hunterjelly on 2009-04-30
Yeah yeah, I know. I've been using Webmin for a while now. Before 9.04 Webmin was working perfectly for me.

---

### Post by Hunterjelly on 2009-05-01
Does anybody have any suggestions at all? Help is really appreciated.

---

### Post by Hunterjelly on 2009-05-02
Literally anything you can suggest will help...

---

### Post by Optichip on 2009-05-29
I'm guessing it has something to do with the NEW way that LDAP is being setup on 9.04, I'm looking for the same answer to this question or another web based tool that will work with LDAP.
 
Optichip

---

### Post by rkcastor on 2009-09-02
Jelly -

I recently had auth issues related to what I believe was the certificate (I assume your are attempting to access via [https://)](https://))

If not, nevermind.

I did the same thing you did w/ my Jaunty (installed the same pkgs) but used webmin_1.480_all.deb.  Everything went without a hitch - this time.  So your dependencies are still valid.

---

### Post by gmbrammer on 2009-09-07
I just installed 9.04 64 bit server on a Dell blade, did a "aptitude update", then ran the script you had on your thread to get perl, and installed webmin by "dpkg -i webmin_1.480_all.deb" (I downloaded it from the webmin.com site).  Regrettably for you, it worked perfectly.  You might check the log files in "/usr/share/webmin/webminlog" to see if any clues are there.

---

