---
title: "{16.04} howto: install xfce via chrome"
date: 2016-11-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-06
when you install chrome, all you do is google download chrome

you press a button

it installs 

done

--

how do the same with xfce using chrome?

--

also likely want to unintall unity but not super needed

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2016-11-07
? xfce is a desktop envionment. Nothing to do with Chrome.

Open your package manager, Software Centre or Synaptics, whatever. Search for and install 'xfce4'. Reboot your machine and at the login screen, choose the 'xfce4 session'. That's it. You can install the Lubuntu desktop environment 'lxde' exactly the same way. 

A note: whatever DE you were using last is the one your machine will boot into next start unless you change it from the 'sessions' menu at the login screen manually. 

xfce4 is a desktop environment, just to make it crystal clear. No reason to uninstall Unity. Just use the one you like best. Xubuntu uses xfce4 by default, no Unity. You might want to experiment with Xubuntu in a 'live' session. Might suit you better overall (lighter, generally faster, not as much bloat). :)

Uninstalling Unity altogether is the stuff of another thread.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-22
you didn't answer --

[COLOR=#000000]* is it easy to uninstall unity? [/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]** if it's easy, how[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]** if it's not easy, then is it better to install xubu - won't that take longer..[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]--[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]you seem to know about xfce, can you give input here -- [/COLOR]https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2344006&p=13573087#post13573087

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-11-22
Yes, he did answer.

Do not use this thread to request support for another.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-22
these aren't answered --

[COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#000000]* is it easy to uninstall unity? [/COLOR][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#000000]** if it's easy, how[/COLOR][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#000000]** if it's not easy, then is it better to install xubu - won't that take longer..[/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by QIII on 2016-11-22
Please see the last sentence of Bucky Ball's post.

Closed.

---

