---
title: "fstab with ntfs-3g"
date: 2007-08-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by john8791 on 2007-08-09
I used Automatix to install ntfs-3g support.  Works great except the files on my WinXP machine are now readable and writeable by anyone which is dangerous!  I understand the basics of fstab but I don't want to screw anything up.  I want myself to be able to do anything, but everyone else to only be able to read.  Also, is there anyway to not have mounted drives show up on the Gnome desktop?  The pertinent lines are:

# Generated by Automatix
/dev/hda1   /media/winxp_c   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
/dev/hda5   /media/hda5   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
#/dev/hda6   /media/hda6   ntfs-3g  defaults,locale=en_US.utf8    0    0
## End of Automatix mounted partitions

Thanks!

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-09
```

sudo nautilus

```

Navigate to folder.  Right-click, Properties, Permissions.

Alt-F2
gconf-editor
apps/Nautilus/desktop

Tick the various boxes for what you are wanting.

-merlin

---

### Post by john8791 on 2007-08-09
Now I'm more confused.  I have attached a screen shot of Nautilus.  "Owner" and "Group" are already root and "Users" has no write privileges already.  Why does everyone have full access to begin with?

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-08-09
From ntfs-3g.org --

     If the ntfs-3g binary is set setuid-root then non-root users will be also able  to mount block devices or via /etc/fstab if the 'user' or 'users' option is specified. Please note that ntfs-3g drops the root privilege after successful mount  and runs as an unprivileged process afterwards. 

-merlin

---

### Post by john8791 on 2007-08-09
Thanks for the info.  I got it working the way I want now.  The key is using umask in the fstab entry.  For whatever reason, with ntfs-3g, the permissions of the mount point is "drwxrwxrwx" on bootup and can not be changed even as root after the fact.  Here are my new fstab entries:

[B]/dev/hda1   /media/winxp_c   ntfs-3g  users,locale=en_US.utf8,uid=1000,gid=1000,
umask=0002    0    0

/dev/hda5   /media/hda5   ntfs-3g  users,locale=en_US.utf8,uid=1000,gid=1000,
umask=0002    0    0[/B]

This makes me the owner on bootup and takes write privileges away from other users.

I found this at [http://www.swerdna.net.au/linhowtontfs.html](http://www.swerdna.net.au/linhowtontfs.html)

---

