---
title: "8.10 network connectivity issues"
date: 2008-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nugentcj on 2008-12-28
I have just installed 8.10 and the apt-get update hangs trying to get the updates as well as Firefox seems to only get to google.com and nothing else.  I am able to successfully perform DNS looksups and pings to various sites from the terminal so the resolv.conf seems to be ok.  I have installed the 32 and 64 bit versions both with the same issue.

This is an odd issue and I am stuck.  Any help would be appreciated.

Thanks!

---

### Post by randallecook on 2008-12-28
If you do a search on the google page (for anything) and follow the links you get do those web pages appear? Try to go to places you have never been before. I am wondering just how strong your DNS connection really is....

Randall

---

### Post by nugentcj on 2008-12-28
When I do a search with google it returns the results but I am unable to connect to any of them.  I have a few other machines running various OS's using the same DNS and they appear to be running fine.

---

### Post by randallecook on 2008-12-28
Thanks. There is something wrong with your DNS mechanism. Previously cached addresses (like google.com) still work, but new ones are not resolvable. A simple but drastic solution would be to reboot your system, since this should force the whole DNS mechanism to reinitialize, but we can probably fix this without rebooting.

Check which server you are getting DNS information from by using dig or nslookup to resolve something you have not been to, like say, intel.com. If you see errors, please post them.

You could try bouncing DHCP. Do 'sudo /sbin/dhclient -r' followed by 'sudo /sbin/dhclient'. I am pretty sure that will work, but you never know. Read the man page on dhclient for more information.

You could also try bouncing your network connection. First do '/sbin/ifconfig' to determine your ethernet interface name. It is probably eth0. It is not lo. That's the "loopback" interface when the computer wants to connect to itself. Do 'sudo /sbin/ifconfig eth0 down' followed by 'sudo /sbin/ifconfig eth0 up'. Bouncing your network interface while dhclient is down might help, too.

Please also post your /etc/resolv.conf ifyou still are having problems. Good luck.

Randall

---

### Post by nugentcj on 2008-12-31
After trying various things it appears to be my network card.  I have installed an older Netgear card and it appears to work fine with that.  

The card that is having issues is a SiS 190, onboard network card.

I appreciate the help.

---

