---
title: ".GIF problems"
date: 2008-05-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Randall Flagg on 2008-05-18
well, I thought allot where to put this... bug...
well, i think it will be better here...

The thing is that I have a problem when I have a .gif with animation...

Many of the aplicattion I use always the same library (I think) for play de animation of a .gif
Like for example, I use pidgin, and the custom emoticons that some friends uses, run faster.. very faster indeed.

In the firefox here, the emoticonc like :lolflag: runs fine, but, if I download that image, and play it with MIRAGE, it runs fast, very fast...

the same happends with other applications...
or.. i dont know, run the .gif uploaded, and see what I'm talking about, run it in Firefox, and run it in mirage, or for example as a custom emoticoin in EMESENE...
[IMG]http://img170.imageshack.us/img170/5944/av52795lo8.gif[/IMG]

did I make my self clear :confused:

thanks in advance

---

### Post by Randall Flagg on 2008-05-19
wow!! topics run fast here!!!


anything?

---

### Post by kellemes on 2008-05-19
In whatever app I open a .gif, it runs just as "fast" as in Firefox (or Opera).

Edit: Not sure how this works but I can imagine the speed the .gif animates is defined in the .gif itself. And so should not be influenced by the app running it, I guess..

---

### Post by Randall Flagg on 2008-05-19
ok, I'll see to record today my desktop and uploaded to youtube :D

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-05-19
Yeah the gif animation speed is stated in the .gif file.
I doubt any libraries are needed for gif animations, hell I could even write something to play gif animations, albeit in the terminal but hey.

It could be more of a timer issue, though i dont get this problem either.

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-05-19
The frame duration in an animated GIF is individually setable for each frame. I wouldn't be surprised if some libraries impose a default frame rate. I've successfully used variable frame rates from 4 seconds to 40ms. The default viewer Ubuntu uses doesn't display animated GIFs so I switched to the gthumb image viewer.

---

### Post by eret anika on 2008-11-29
I don't face any problem with my ubuntu and also with ubuntu. I hear first time about this problem. May be their is any fault in your linux. Reinstall it.

---

