---
title: "{ ./"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mzdrojowy on 2009-10-29
I'm somewhat a new user(about 6months now) who is trying to get into BASH and scripting and c++ etc.
A friend of mine directed me to a command but really could not explain what it is I'm actually doing when I type it , he said its for scripting and C code .... the command is 

{ ./  


now this kinda makes sense to me as the way my noob mind understands the charecters.The first is from C code( { )  and the second is a scripting command ( ./ ) I THINK LOL 

anyways. I  goggled the charecters in relation to bash and each other and i came up with nothing , so now I turn to my esteemed community peeps for your judgment ... 
again please be kind with the noob ..... I have a lot to learn but I'm having a great itme doing it .....

---

### Post by mzdrojowy on 2009-10-31
I thought this might be a tough one ..... :(

---

### Post by diesch on 2009-10-31
```
{ ./
``` isn't a valid bash command.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2009-10-31
I have to admit I've never seen a script with {./ on it's own. I would suggest you install the abs-guide (advanced bash-scripting guide), it is in the repositories, once it is installed, you can find it in /usr/share/doc/abs-guide/html

---

### Post by mzdrojowy on 2009-10-31
> **diesch said:**
> ```
{ ./
``` isn't a valid bash command.


open a terminal and type it ..... works on my gnome (though like I said I dont know how to use it )
I have even seen my friend type that and then type as script directly in the terminal ... 
he's been using linux since 94 though and he's a stoner so he might know something we dont and not even know it LMAO ....
anyways Im still stumped ...

---

### Post by diesch on 2009-11-01
To be a valid bash command it needs at least to be followed by a ; or newline and a closing }. From the manpage:

> 
{ list; }
              list is simply executed in the current shell environment.   list
              must  be  terminated with a newline or semicolon.  This is known
              as a group command.  The return status is  the  exit  status  of
              list.   Note that unlike the metacharacters ( and ), { and } are
              reserved words and must occur where a reserved word is permitted
              to  be  recognized.   Since they do not cause a word break, they
              must be separated from  list  by  whitespace  or  another  shell
              metacharacter.


"./ " just means the current directory - you can't execute that (AFAIR you can configure bash to change to a directory when you "execute" it, but that doesn't make much sense for ./).  

I guess it's just the start of a longer one-liner. Maybe you could ask your friend.

---

### Post by mzdrojowy on 2009-11-03
> **diesch said:**
> To be a valid bash command it needs at least to be followed by a ; or newline and a closing }. From the manpage:



"./ " just means the current directory - you can't execute that (AFAIR you can configure bash to change to a directory when you "execute" it, but that doesn't make much sense for ./).  

I guess it's just the start of a longer one-liner. Maybe you could ask your friend.


Right , I understand where you are comming from. Maybe I overlooked that when I posed the question n the first place. He indeed does start the script with { ./ "multiple line script here and then yes a " } closing statement . I think Im getting closer now with your help as you found the command{list} and the man page and with that longer one liner thing. What I think I'm gonna do is get that script tonight from him at school and just post it and see if you guys can help me understand the Enviorment it was written under. Again thanks to you all for your input, all have given me something to ponder on this matter.

---

### Post by skylark on 2009-11-03
This [**_link_**]("http://tldp.org/LDP/abs/html/special-chars.html") explains the meaning of a BASH code block contained in {}. 

BTW: it is unusual to reference paths in a relative fashion (e.g. via "./filename") in a script unless you explicitly cd to the required directory in the script first. Instead it is usually best practice to assign common directories to shell variables and use these to specify absolute path names.

---

