---
title: "[20.04] Can't paste directly onto the desktop"
date: 2022-03-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-05
What even is going on ? I can't paste directly onto the desktop, paste option on right click is greyed out as seen in the pic:

[IMG]https://i.imgur.com/uMVcsba.png[/IMG]

I can paste into the Desktop directory in files, but that is a hassle in comparison...

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-03-05
Some DEs (desktop environments) don't allow this.  You might find an addon for Gnome3 to allow it. I think it is called something else than an addon, but I don't use Gnome3.

Many people find that having a cluttered desktop is anti-productivity, but to each their own. I rather like the quick search that finds files with just a few characters entered. Lots of customization is possible. 

See the first accelerated key in this link? [https://help.gnome.org/users/gnome-help/stable/shell-keyboard-shortcuts.html.en](https://help.gnome.org/users/gnome-help/stable/shell-keyboard-shortcuts.html.en)  Try that out.

---

### Post by vanadium on 2022-03-05
It is a limitation of the Gnome Shell extension used in 20.04 to support (some kind of) desktop icons. That extension actually seems not maintained anymore, but it is forked in "Desktop Icons NG", used by Ubuntu 20.10 and later. You could remove the system extension and install "Desktop Icons NG". Move to a workflow without desktop icons, however, is not as bad as it seems.

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-05
> **vanadium said:**
> Move to a workflow without desktop icons, however, is not as bad as it seems.

Sadly, there's not nearly enough space in the panel to put all the programs I want. And I use the desktop anyway to navigate to lots of folders, files and other documents directly...

---

### Post by coley9225 on 2022-03-05
I usually drag file to desktop, then it asks if I want to copy or create symlink. In my case, I choose symlink on most, but copy is fine, just uses more disk space. If it is an executable, there will be a red !, just right click and select 'trust this executable'. This is in Lubuntu 20.04, but don't see it being much different in any 'buntu distro. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-03-05
> **ddddd5 said:**
> Sadly, there's not nearly enough space in the panel to put all the programs I want. And I use the desktop anyway to navigate to lots of folders, files and other documents directly...

^^^^^^^^
this is exactly why moving to a non-icon-based launching system is a good idea. Once you stop using that mode - within a week or so, you'll wonder how you ever lived with the limitations.  Usually launching a program (or data file) is 1 tap and 2-3 characters. Don't even need to touch the mouse.  Crazy efficient. 

You'll only need a very few programs - those that don't have any input data.
All the other launches will be using the data file to launch the expected tool.

Of course, all of these things are customizable.

But if you want to keep working the old way, just don't use Gnome3.  There are plenty of DEs like Mate, Cinnamon, LXQt, KDE, XFCE which should work 'the old way' some of us prefer.  Whatever works for you. That's the correct answer.

BTW, I don't use any of these methods. I launch everything using a shell/terminal to get much more control.
We are all different. Use what works for you, but being aware of how others work can improve your efficiency.

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-05
> **vanadium said:**
> but it is forked in "Desktop Icons NG", used by Ubuntu 20.10 and later. You could remove the system extension and install "Desktop Icons NG". 

Would you be so kind as to help me install Desktop Icons NG ? I don't want to do it with terminal commands, because the dev has informed the community that the latest version isn't compatible with gnome versions lower than 3.38, and mine is 3.36.x. 

 I downloaded the appropriate version that will work with my gnome version. I unzipped it and it is now available in a folder named dingrastersoft.com.v17.shell-extension. How do I install it from here ? 

I found where all the shell extensions are (@ /usr/share/gnome-shell/extensions), but won't allow me to copy that folder into there, and I doubt that's how it's supposed to be done anyway. Help please :redface:

---

### Post by vanadium on 2022-03-06
Use option 1 [here](https://www.maketecheasier.com/hide-desktop-icons-ubuntu/) to disable the system wide build in extension "Desktop Icons".

Learn how to install extensions from the Gnome Shell extensions website [here](https://linuxhint.com/installing_gnome_extensions_ubuntu/): start from the section "Install extensions from Gnome.org using the web browser". Then use your browser to install the extension "Desktop Icons NG (DING)" by rastersoft.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2022-03-06
> **ddddd5 said:**
> Would you be so kind as to help me install Desktop Icons NG ? I don't want to do it with terminal commands, because the dev has informed the community that the latest version isn't compatible with gnome versions lower than 3.38, and mine is 3.36.x. 

 I downloaded the appropriate version that will work with my gnome version. I unzipped it and it is now available in a folder named dingrastersoft.com.v17.shell-extension. How do I install it from here ? 

I found where all the shell extensions are (@ /usr/share/gnome-shell/extensions), but won't allow me to copy that folder into there, and I doubt that's how it's supposed to be done anyway. Help please :redface:

Here are the steps to install a **downloaded** gnome-shell extension:

Open .zip archive with archive manager.
Examine metadata.json file
Copy UUID given in the metadata.json file (see the UUID line, inside the quote marks).
Create a folder in ~/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions using the UUID as the name.
Extract the entire contents of the .zip file to this new folder.
Log out and log in.
Activate the extension in the Extensions app.

Done. 

This download method needs to be used IF:
a) You use the flatpak or snap version of Firefox, and:
b) the extension is not in the Ubuntu repository

---

### Post by vanadium on 2022-03-06
> **Dennis N said:**
> Here are the steps to install a **downloaded** gnome-shell extension:

You will need to follow this manual approach indeed if your browser is installed in a containerized format, e.g. snap, which actually will become the default in the forthcoming Ubuntu edition. Also that method is described in the link I provided, under "Install Gnome extensions offline".

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-06
> **Dennis N said:**
> Here are the steps to install a **downloaded** gnome-shell extension:

Open .zip archive with archive manager.
Examine metadata.json file
Copy UUID given in the metadata.json file (see the UUID line, inside the quote marks).
Create a folder in **~/.local/share/gnome-shell/extensions** using the UUID as the name.



There is no 'extensions' folder under ~/.local/share/gnome-shell/ . 

There is however, one under  **/usr/**share/gnome-shell , and I can see all the 15 extensions in there that I can also see in looking glass. [B]

/usr/[/B]share/gnome-shell/extensions is write protected tho. Stuck.

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-06
Update: After checking the document [here]("https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/quick-docs/gnome-shell-extensions/") , I've decided that my user has no extensions created beforehand (since I haven't indeed created anything), and therefore that is the reason  ~/.local/share/gnome-shell/  didn't have an extensions folder in it.

I went ahead and created one. Then followed your instructions, and Desktop Icons NG is now visible in the extensions app, and can be activated & it works. 

Thanks a lot for the help :D

Now I just need to disable (remove ?) the desktop extension that comes stock with 20.04.


Edit: I've now disabled something called 'Desktop Icons' under the built in section of the extensions app, and now can drag&drop onto the desktop. That's all I guess ?

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-06
One last question: Is there a way to make icons overlap in Desktop Icons NG , as in 16.04 ? 

Currently, they're aligned to the grid when they're dragged around, and their borders are too large for my liking, even with the icon size set to tiny.

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-09
> **vanadium said:**
> Use option 1 [here]("https://www.maketecheasier.com/hide-desktop-icons-ubuntu/") to disable the system wide build in extension "Desktop Icons".

Learn how to install extensions from the Gnome Shell extensions website [here]("https://linuxhint.com/installing_gnome_extensions_ubuntu/"): start from the section "Install extensions from Gnome.org using the web browser". Then use your browser to install the extension "Desktop Icons NG (DING)" by rastersoft.

Sorry for bothering you :)

I'm using desktop icons ng (ding) v17 (for gnome 3.34), and still can't drag and drop files from the desktop to an application on the dock. 

For example, an image from the desktop, onto firefox, which is inside the dock, to upload said image to imgur.

I've looked around in the settings, but there isn't one specific to this issue it seems. Is there anything I'm missing ?

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2022-03-11
Hello,

In older versions drag and drop was (is) working for flashback and not for gnome-shell (now is working), while copy paste was (is) working for gnome-shell and not for gnome-flashback. Upgrading to ubuntu 22.04 might solve your issue.

Regards!

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2022-03-11
> I'm using desktop icons ng (ding) v17 (for gnome 3.34), and still can't drag and drop files from the desktop to an application on the dock.
That has never worked in gnome shell.
It works perfectly in unity, though.

One possible solution can be found here [https://github.com/micheleg/dash-to-dock/issues/49#issuecomment-720976751]("https://github.com/micheleg/dash-to-dock/issues/49#issuecomment-720976751")
But that requires running a fork of the dash-to-dock, and as explained, it's kind of wonky at best.

---

