---
title: "12.10 X86_64 - No Adobe Acrobat?"
date: 2012-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Illydth on 2012-11-01
So the title pretty much says it.

On 64-bit 12.04 and before you could do an installation of "acrobat" which would then install the pre-requisite files for you and allow acrobat to come up.

On 64-bit 12.10 without the apt-get installer for acrobat there's no documentation around how to get the i386 version of acrobat (9.5.1) running under 64-bit ubuntu and, since that's all Adobe produces (I will hold off on my rant of idiot app development companies NOT producing 64-bit versions of software in today's era), I'm not liking the concept that I'm going to be without a good PDF reader on my new work system.

HELP?  There's GOT to be a way to make this thing work.

--Doug

---

### Post by Illydth on 2012-11-02
Last and only bump to make sure it gets seen, otherwise I'll call the thread dead and keep looking.

--Doug

---

### Post by AlexDudko on 2012-11-02
There's a dependency problem with 32-bit libraries in the 64-bit system. Adobe Acrobat is not an open source piece of software so Ubuntu development team can't do anything to compile and package Acrobat for 64-bit system.
Is there any serious reason to use Adobe software?

---

### Post by kanikilu on 2012-11-02
I'm not really sure why, but there is not a Quantal-specific package for acroread in the partner repository. That said, enabling the old repo for 12.04 seems to work fine for me: ```
sudo add-apt-repository "deb http://archive.canonical.com/ precise partner"
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install acroread
```

This installs the older 9.4.7-1oneiric1 package since a 9.5.2 package isn't available for amd64. There's some discussion on this, including a couple bug reports, and some links to alternatives:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2050287](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2050287)

---

### Post by Illydth on 2012-11-02
@Alex: Only because i've had very little luck with most Open Source PDF Viewers with regards to most of the "professional" PDF's I get ahold of.  The other thing that draws me to Adobe is the fact that there's an integrated plugin for Firefox allowing me NOT to have to download and store all of the PDF's I end up viewing.  Trust me, If there's a better open source alternative to Adobe's PDF Viewer, I'm there and I'll drop Adobe like a bad penny...I just haven't found much of anything.  Granted, I've never given it a good hard look but stuff like xPDF is fine for some things but VERY VERY limited in what it can/will do.

@kanikilu:  Thank you very very much.  I greatly appreciate the information.  I'll take a look at the other thread and see what I can find.  Otherwise, I'll re-enable Oneric.  You're a life saver!

Marking this as closed.

---

### Post by AlexDudko on 2012-11-02
> **Illydth said:**
> The other thing that draws me to Adobe is the fact that there's an integrated plugin for Firefox allowing me NOT to have to download and store all of the PDF's I end up viewing.

If you see something in your browser it has already been downloaded to your PC.
If there's no need of some exotic features simply doubleclick a pdf file and it'll be opened in your system's default pdf viewer (Evince for Gnome, Okular for KDE).

---

### Post by Pilot6 on 2012-11-02
What is a problem to download a deb frome adobe.com with 9.5.1.
But I do not see any difference from 9.4.7.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2012-11-02
last time i used adobe reader on my 64bit os it was very unstable
i would consider something else if i were you
[http://alternativeto.net/software/adobe-reader/?platform=linux](http://alternativeto.net/software/adobe-reader/?platform=linux)

---

### Post by unimatrix725 on 2013-02-21
This may or may not work for you.  Make sure Firefox is not running.
I followed post #4*, 
"
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [http://archive.canonical.com/](http://archive.canonical.com/) precise partner" && sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install acroread

"
Then I opened synaptic manager marked Acroread 9.4.7 FOR REMOVAL. Applied the Changes. Then went to :
[ftp://ftp.adobe.com/pub/adobe/reader/unix/9.x/9.5.4/enu/AdbeRdr9.5.4-1_i386linux_enu.deb](ftp://ftp.adobe.com/pub/adobe/reader/unix/9.x/9.5.4/enu/AdbeRdr9.5.4-1_i386linux_enu.deb)

Downloaded the .deb file (Im on Mint14/Quantal12.10) opened the file. The installer will check for a proper install (dependencies) and install. 

sudo nspluginwrapper -i /opt/Adobe/Reader9/Browser/intellinux/nppdf.so
(Firefox Needs a Adobe Reader 9.5 PlugIn update)
Then open the PDFs in Firefox. The app itself I believe is still x86 I believe. I can load them fine in firefox however.

---

