---
title: "m3u playlist problem"
date: 2015-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by habana on 2015-05-04
I used to rip CDs with grip which generated .m3u files in my mp3 directory. After the demise of grip I used various ripping programs, currently asunder. These programs generated m3u files in each album directory with relative addressing. This has not been a problem until I bought a new car with a USB audio capability. The audio system reads the m3u files but the more recent CDs are displayed by album title only. 

To sort this out I need to edit the latter lot and put them in my mp3 directory before recopying to my USB stick. My  ID3 tag/playlist editor of choice has been easytag but it doesn't seem possible to do what I want to do. There is a choice of relative addressing using the parent directory or absolute addressing. Unfortunately I want the grandparent directory (my structure is mp3/artist/album). Absolute addressing will produce /home/bill/data/mp3/artist/album which the car audio system will not understand.

I can obviously edit the 200 or so .m3u files manually but it will be much easier if I can recreate them in the way that grip used to.

I would be most grateful for any suggestions.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2015-05-04
Hi, can you post the contents of both styles of m3u files (it should just have text in it).

---

### Post by habana on 2015-05-05
> **sandyd said:**
> Hi, can you post the contents of both styles of m3u files (it should just have text in it).

An m3U file generated by grip:

bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/the_bronchiodilated_blues.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/gst.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/the_flatulence_calypso.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/cricket_lovers.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/the_entertainer.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/mississippi_river_blues.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/skasey.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/mr_hot_weather.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/digest.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/the_bantam_****.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/salty_dog.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/dont_say_we_didnt_warn_you.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/fingerpickin_good.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/requests.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/in_the_club.mp3
bernard_carney/the_bernard_carney_collection/sister_kate.mp3

An m3u file generated (probably) by asunder:

#EXTM3U
#EXTINF:172,Davey Graham - Leaving Blues
Leaving Blues.mp3
#EXTINF:145,Davey Graham - Cocaine
Cocaine.mp3
#EXTINF:167,Davey Graham - Rock Me Baby
Rock Me Baby.mp3
#EXTINF:148,Davey Graham - Moanin´
Moanin´.mp3
#EXTINF:146,Davey Graham - Skillet
Skillet.mp3
#EXTINF:139,Davey Graham - Ain´t Nobody´s Business If I Do
Ain´t Nobody´s Business If I Do.mp3
#EXTINF:161,Davey Graham - Maajun (A Taste Of Tangier)
Maajun (A Taste Of Tangier).mp3
#EXTINF:215,Davey Graham - I Can´t Keep From Crying Sometimes
I Can´t Keep From Crying Sometimes.mp3
#EXTINF:149,Davey Graham - Goin´ Down Slow
Goin´ Down Slow.mp3
#EXTINF:146,Davey Graham - Better Git In Your Soul
Better Git In Your Soul.mp3
#EXTINF:245,Davey Graham - Freight-Train Blues
Freight-Train Blues.mp3
#EXTINF:359,Davey Graham - Both Sides Now
Both Sides Now.mp3
#EXTINF:136,Davey Graham - No Preacher Blues
No Preacher Blues.mp3
#EXTINF:136,Davey Graham - Bad Boy Blues
Bad Boy Blues.mp3
#EXTINF:151,Davey Graham - I´m Ready
I´m Ready.mp3
#EXTINF:215,Davey Graham - Hoochie Coochie Man
Hoochie Coochie Man.mp3
#EXTINF:345,Davey Graham - Blue Raga
Blue Raga.mp3

Ignoring the #lines, the entries are just the filenames


Thank you for your interest.
Bill

---

### Post by habana on 2015-05-08
bump

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2015-05-08
The easiest I can think of would be to create playlists with absolute paths and then use sed in the shell to get rid of the parts you don't want and need, something like
```

sed 's/\/home\/bill\/data\/mp3\///' playlist.m3u > NewPlaylist.m3u

```

---

### Post by habana on 2015-05-09
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
> The easiest I can think of would be to create playlists with absolute paths and then use sed in the shell to get rid of the parts you don't want and need, something like
```

sed 's/\/home\/bill\/data\/mp3\///' playlist.m3u > NewPlaylist.m3u

```

Thanks I'll give it a try!

---

### Post by habana on 2015-05-11
Success! Thank you Holger_Gehrke for introducing me to the sed command. I generated playlists as suggested and then used the following command:

```
sed -i 's/\/home\/bill\/data\/mp3\///' *.m3u
```

My playlists are now as required.

---

