---
title: "mounting none on /dev failed..."
date: 2010-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrScum on 2010-05-03
upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 Dell Vostro 1520. During boot the following error message shows up:

mount: mounting non on /dev failed no such device 

Research in this forum yields the result that booting the wrong kernel might be the reason.

Thus I checked the menu.lst showing the correct kernel in the first menue line. However, when I boot the list I see on the screen does not include the lines I see in menue.lst only the old kernel 2.6.31-21 is available whereas the menu.lst says 2.6.32-21 in the first line. 

How can I fix this?

---

### Post by DrScum on 2010-05-03
Anyone?

---

### Post by darolu on 2010-05-03
I think this is because you are using GRUB 2 instead of GRUB legacy, in the 'new' GRUB the **menu.lst** file does nothing, it works different, the file it reads is /boot/grub/grub.cfg; you should **NOT** touch this file though, it is script-generated by the files under /etc/grub.d/ and /etc/default/grub.

Read more at: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2) & [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)

Running this will refresh it and generate a new grub.cfg file based on files under /etc/grub.d/ and /etc/default/grub:
```
$ sudo update-grub
```
To check the actual boot options you find in the GRUB menu at boot, you can to run:
```
$ grep menuentry /boot/grub/grub.cfg
```
Maybe this info alone (the one grep will print) will help you solve your problem, post it here anyways to see if someone can help you from there.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-03
from synaptic: remove/purge ALL grub packages installed then install grub-pc and grub-common, then:

sudo grub-mkconfig && update-grub

---

### Post by DrScum on 2010-05-03
Thx. I did run grub update the message says that the new kernel and everything is found.

Here is the grub.cfg output

menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-20-generic" {
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-20-generic (recovery mode)" {
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic" {
menuentry "Ubuntu, Linux 2.6.31-14-generic (recovery mode)" {
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+)" {
menuentry "Memory test (memtest86+, serial console 115200)" {
menuentry "Windows Vista (loader) (on /dev/sda2)" {

obvously I am booting 2.6.31-20 


how do I change this to boot to the new kernel?

---

### Post by DrScum on 2010-05-03
ok, things are happening fast!

I was just replying to darolu when dino99's post came in. I'll try his suggestion now.

---

### Post by DrScum on 2010-05-03
ok, did what dino suggested, the menuentry output shows the new kernel now. I am going to reboot, keep your fingers crossed for me that there will be any booting at all.

---

### Post by DrScum on 2010-05-03
the system boots to the new kernel now. 
Unfortunately there is another error message now saying something like "unknown controler version you may experience problems".

This may be the reason for an extended black screen with only cursor blinking at the upper left after the boot process starts.

How do I diagnose such a thing?

Sorry for causing more trouble!

---

### Post by Loco Ulysses on 2010-05-31
Dino99's solution solved this for me too. So the old grub was still loading the old kernel, does that mean I still have the old kernel somewhere? Is that the way it's supposed to be?

---

