---
title: "How can I restore the Windows Boot Menu?"
date: 2011-04-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by No121Else on 2011-04-06
So I have been trying for the past 24 hours to get Ubuntu installed on my primarily Windows 7 PC, along with the BackTrack Linux OS, so I can explore things dealing with security a bit more, I decided to Dual Boot into Ubuntu and VMware BackTrack for the obvious reason of I am dealing with Viruses/Hacking and such and would rather do that in a safe environment.

So after getting Ubuntu installed and working I now have the Grub boot menu along with 5 options 2 for Ubuntu, 2 that slipped my mind, & 1 for Windows (Loader). 

My question is, is there any simple way to get the boot menu for Windows back with it just listing "Ubuntu & Windows 7" as two separate options.

Sorry for the small level of incompetence its been about 3 years since I was in school getting constantly refreshed with all the info.

EDIT: I should probably mention that if I had just done the install on a new HDD instead of an partitioned external I wouldn't of had a problem.

---

### Post by zvacet on 2011-04-07
You have two Ubuntu kernels installed and and both have recovery option.That is 4 entries for Ubuntu and last is for Windows.You can remove kernel with lower number if you tested and you are sure  that latest kernel works fine.Im general it is good thing to have 2 kernels,so I don´t see anythong wrong here.You will get use to it.

---

### Post by Lolpanda on 2011-04-07
You're not supposed to edit this file, but I've successfully done it in the past (thats not saying it WILL work, just saying if you're (for lack of a better word) OCD about it saying ONLY "Ubuntu & Windows 7)


/boot/grub/grub.cfg

its a plain text file, even SAYS "DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE" at the top but again, your machine, your choice. In mine a little more than half way down the page theres a section that says:

```

}
menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 2.6.35-28-generic-pae (recovery mode)' --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	insmod part_msdos
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,msdos3)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set f28d0da8-acbc-4c1a-be20-b7a2afab54bc
	echo	'Loading Linux 2.6.35-28-generic-pae ...'
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-28-generic-pae root=UUID=f28d0da8-acbc-4c1a-be20-b7a2afab54bc ro single 
	echo	'Loading initial ramdisk ...'
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-28-generic-pae
}
```

The top portion "Menuentry" just change it to be whatever you want. That specific example is for the RECOVERY kernel, incase you break the system. 


Side note: Did GRUB / GRUB 2 fork eachother or what? Cuz i'm sure i'm not alone when I say: I liked GRUB 1 a lot more -.- much simpler to edit / add / remove things from the config file, more streamlined. Like I get that it was an old code base but still, GRUB 2 went waaay overkill, and last I heard it was the sole reason for BTRFS delays to major distros

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-04-07
@Lolpanda: You're advised not to edit that file because it's regenerated whenever "update-grub" is run, making your changes only temporary. If you want to make permanent changes to this file, you need to change the config files used by the update-grub application. I don't use grub2, so I don't know which files these are, but I think they're stored in /etc/default or /etc/grub.

---

### Post by No121Else on 2011-04-07
Thanks for the help guys. Also yeah Lolpanda for lack of a better word its OCD or I guess preference I just liked the Windows Boot menu.

It doesn't matter now, I pretty much was fiddling around with some more stuff last night, and formatted the files partition thinking it would cause no harm and it wiped my MBR nearly, I went in with my OEM Win7 CD and got my windows OS back up, and will probably stick with Ubuntu on a flashdrive until I can find the power supply for my external. As soon as I get that one up and running all 250gb's will be for Ubuntu.

Also expect to see more of myself. I usually find forums and stick to them for a good while so as long as I am tinkering with Ubuntu/BackTrack I will be here as an active member.

---

### Post by Eenz on 2011-04-12
Hello!

Tinkering semi-noob here! I play with Linux for fun.
I have previously installed Ubuntu 10.04 alongside Vista, but ran into problems (of my own making), so uninstalled Ubuntu and recovered the partion back to Windows (can't remember how though).

Today I installed 10.10 alongside Vista. When it was time to restart after install a list of errors showed up. When I hit the enter key it rebooted.

Not it starts up with the same thing No121Else's computer does, not the menu I'm used to with just Vista/Ubuntu.

So from what I can gather there is still stuff from my previous 10.04 install remaining? Why would that be?

In my Windows (c: drive) there is also a folder called Ubuntu containing what appears to be similar files to the install CD (WUBI?). Should I get rid of this?

Just curious really! but would also prefer to have a cleaner boot menu where I can choose my preferred OS (boot order).

Thank you for your time! :)

---

