---
title: "Where should I mount my secondary drive for my personal files?"
date: 2012-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mikiemorales on 2012-04-24
Hello everyone, I'm fairly new to Ubuntu and have been getting up to speed in the past year. There is something that I don't seem to understand very well. 

I have a 150 GB SSD in my laptop that I use for the root partition. I installed the Ubuntu 12.04 and decided to start installing and testing programs. I got a 500 GB secondary drive that I can use for some of my personal files so I decided to create a partition, move/copy all of the files in /home/mikie to the /dev/sdb1 and then mount it in /home/mikie and create a record in /etc/fstab to do this every boot. I know how to do this, but my need for help comes because when I did that the files in the /dev/sdb1 seems to be hidden or overridden by some left over files on /home/mikie. I tried so many different ways and now I'm thinking maybe I shouldn't be mapping this drive into this location??

So my concerns are?

1. **Is is ok to map a drive to /home/<user> or should I do something like /home/<user>/storage?**
I've have so many issues trying to map it here, files being in use. Couldn't delete some (even as root) I guess because I'm logged in as the user I'm trying to delete the folder of?

2. If at any point I need to umount the drive so I can (physically) insert the dvd rom to play music or whatever,**is the OS going to generate the default files and folders under /home/mikie/ at reboot?? (when the additional drive is not on)** If so, how do I prevent the overridden files issue from happening after I reboot again with the other drive?? which files will show when I do "ls" on /home/mikie the newly generated by the os or my files?

Thanks for any help you guys can provide.
Miguel

---

### Post by RichardCain on 2012-04-25
If you're planning on removing it sometimes, it would be better not to try and mount it in a particular place; just let it automount in /media.

To be honest, I can't see any advantage in mounting it elsewhere.  Plus, if you have it mounted directly as /home/<user> you will create all sorts of problems like you mention above.

---

### Post by techsupport on 2012-04-25
> **RichardCain said:**
> If you're planning on removing it sometimes, it would be better not to try and mount it in a particular place; just let it automount in /media.

To be honest, I can't see any advantage in mounting it elsewhere.  Plus, if you have it mounted directly as /home/<user> you will create all sorts of problems like you mention above.

If I had an extra 500Gb drive I would purchase a external gigabit NAS enclosure and hook it directly to my Gigabit router. You could put it to better use as file server instead.  That is getting to be a very popular option lately. It can host your personal files and you assign permissions, etc etc.  Makes it easier to do upgrades, and backups too. Plenty of other options that way.

:guitar:

---

### Post by mikiemorales on 2012-04-25
> **techsupport said:**
> If I had an extra 500Gb drive I would purchase a external gigabit NAS enclosure and hook it directly to my Gigabit router. You could put it to better use as file server instead.  That is getting to be a very popular option lately. It can host your personal files and you assign permissions, etc etc.  Makes it easier to do upgrades, and backups too. Plenty of other options that way.

:guitar:

I do have one as well. I was planning to set it up as a backup server. Oh well, I'm not sure what to do with the extra hard drive. maybe just let it mount like you guys suggested and have like a shortcut?

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2012-04-25
There should not be any difference between giving a drive the mount point of /home and giving a partition the mount point of /home.

I have a partition mounted as /home and in the partition there is the /home folder and in that the /my user folder with all the usual documents inside.

Surely all you need to do is have the drive mounted as /home and not as /home/mikie

What exactly did you edit into /etc/fstab?

This is a section from my fstab

> # / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=384ce6c1-d479-432c-acb1-1ce3823a60b3 /               ext3    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /home was on /dev/sda3 during installation
UUID=21666abb-7ca6-47aa-93f7-60aa9645199e /home           ext3    defaults        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=c2641219-3b64-45c9-a6b3-b6116303f635 none            swap    sw              0       0

Are you able to use the drive's UUID and is it pointing to /home?

Oh, by the way, once you get that working if you ever disconnect that drive then Ubuntu will not boot because it cannot find the /home folder.

I have other Ubuntus installed. They have their own /home folder and when I am in one of them I access the /home partition of the other Ubuntu using Naultius. 

Regards.

---

### Post by dankdave on 2012-04-26
> **mikiemorales said:**
> I do have one as well. I was planning to set it up as a backup server. Oh well, I'm not sure what to do with the extra hard drive. maybe just let it mount like you guys suggested and have like a shortcut?

That seems like a good idea.  Just let it automount in /media/ I think it's a bit weird to mount it as a 'user' in /home/.

---

### Post by mikiemorales on 2012-04-27
> **grahammechanical said:**
> There should not be any difference between giving a drive the mount point of /home and giving a partition the mount point of /home.

I have a partition mounted as /home and in the partition there is the /home folder and in that the /my user folder with all the usual documents inside.

Surely all you need to do is have the drive mounted as /home and not as /home/mikie

What exactly did you edit into /etc/fstab?

This is a section from my fstab



Are you able to use the drive's UUID and is it pointing to /home?

Oh, by the way, once you get that working if you ever disconnect that drive then Ubuntu will not boot because it cannot find the /home folder.

I have other Ubuntus installed. They have their own /home folder and when I am in one of them I access the /home partition of the other Ubuntu using Naultius. 

Regards.


Huumm it wouldn't work for me, I realize that I had messed up because my /home/mikie was encrypted, so always that I tried to delete it was complaining. I created another account just to delete my folder and to have it mount the right directory, but for some reason I was getting the local drive overriding the external mount? 

It was so confusing that at the end I ended up removing my real documents!!!! glad I had a backup server! 
:D

---

### Post by mikiemorales on 2012-04-27
> **dankdave said:**
> That seems like a good idea.  Just let it automount in /media/ I think it's a bit weird to mount it as a 'user' in /home/.

I have weird ideas every once in a while. I'm doing that /media/mikie will be.

Thank you guys, first post I get help on! :)

:popcorn:

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-04-28
> **mikiemorales said:**
> 
.........
So my concerns are?

1. **Is is ok to map a drive to /home/<user> or should I do something like /home/<user>/storage?**
.........

/home is a **System Folder** that **must** be on a Linux filesystem (not Windows rubbish like FAT or NTFS) and really must be a permanent non-removeable drive on a system.

If you want to use an external drive for user data then you should mount a Linux partition on it in /mnt (not /media - that is also a System Folder exclusively for system use) and use a softlink from your /home/user sub-folder to that drive.

---

