---
title: "11.04 or 10.10"
date: 2011-06-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-13
I am trying to figure out which to do. I currently have 11.04, but i am considering going back to 10.10. Is there any way to roll it back without loosing all of my stuff? And also... is there any way to get the side launcher bar, because i really like that feature of 11.04.

Any suggestions would be appreciated

Parker

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-13
Hey guys. How can I roll back ubuntu 11.04 to ubuntu 10.10 without loosing any of my data. And also is there any way to get the side launchbar on ubuntu 10.10.

Any help appreciated

parker

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-06-13
There is no rollback.
You have to reinstall.
If you want to use the sidebar of Unity under 10.10, you could add maybe Unity itself to 10.10 or at least I know you can have Unity 2d from a PPA for Maverick.
Also you could install Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.10, it uses Unity, but the older version.

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-13
Cool. But how would i go about backing up all of my data.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-06-13
You can't roll back , backup your data and reinstall is your only option if you want 10.10  . The 10.10 netbook addition includes unity . There are way to set up something similar in Classic Gnome 11.04 or 10.10 using a dock.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-06-13
> **parkerskouson said:**
> Cool. But how would i go about backing up all of my data.

Save to a removable device.

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-13
Ok. But would i loose my Dual Boot option, as i am Dual Booting with Win. 7 Ultimate.

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-06-13
> **parkerskouson said:**
> Cool. But how would i go about backing up all of my data.

There are some solutions for it.
What I normally do, is to put my data on an external hard disk.

[Here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BackupYourSystem") some info.

---

### Post by ivanovnegro on 2011-06-13
> **parkerskouson said:**
> Ok. But would i loose my Dual Boot option, as i am Dual Booting with Win. 7 Ultimate.

No, you have to install it just like before, alongside Windows but to substitute 11.04.

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-13
Ok. will do.

---

### Post by nzjethro on 2011-06-13
Another dissenter! I'm (as are a lot of people on these forums) in the same boat - tried Natty, but just want back to Maverick. Unfortunately, there's no way to rollback; you'll have to back-up, wipe and do a clean install. If you don't like the UI of Natty, but like everything else, try run it in a GNOME classic session (selectable from the bottom panel when you log in) or check out KDE on XFCE - alternative DE's that are a bit closer to classic GNOME.

And about the launcher, I'm pretty sure it's not available in GNOME Classic (being a part of the Unity desktop). As a workaround, check out talika ([http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Talika+applet?content=118267](http://gnome-look.org/content/show.php/Talika+applet?content=118267)). It allows you to have icons for your open windows, and pin commonly used icons too. Try a vertical panel on the left of the desktop, with Talika, set to autohide. It's not the Unity dock, but it's a pretty attractive alternative.

---

### Post by JerryJ on 2011-06-13
I would suggest to create an image of 10.10 or use another HD. I end up going back to 10.10 when I discovered issues with 11.04. I'm hoping 11.10 will be much better. Annoying problems like Network Shares between Win7 & Ubuntu including Printers, Freezing. Updating from 10.10 to 11.04 resulting in failed updates.

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2011-06-13
I would go back to 10.4 the Long Term Support release.

Backup your home directory and give it a try.

---

### Post by ghostborg on 2011-06-13
I'm using Gnome classic as above suggested.
You could try one of the Docks like Cairo, Docky or AVN.
Cairo preferences, position allows you to move it top, left, right, bottom.

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-14
> **SoFl W said:**
> I would go back to 10.4 the Long Term Support release.

Backup your home directory and give it a try.

Two things, how do i back up the home directory(im a noob) and also would it mess with my Dual boot with Win. 7?

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2011-06-14
> **parkerskouson said:**
> Two things, how do i back up the home directory(im a noob) and also would it mess with my Dual boot with Win. 7?

backing up the home directory would involve copying everything in /home to an external HDD.  This contains all of the settings and files for everyone who used the computer.

You can reinstall Linux without messing up your dual boot.  Just don't do anything to the Windows partition during installation.

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-14
ok perfect. and then when i get the older verison i just copy all of the old files over correct

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2011-06-14
> **parkerskouson said:**
> ok perfect. and then when i get the older verison i just copy all of the old files over correct

I would say just copy over the "normal" folders and only the hidden folders for specific programs with settings you want to retain... Firefox, Vuze, etc.  Copying the desktop settings from new to old may mess with the default appearance.

If that sounds too complicated, then just copying everything should work.

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-14
Ok. Do you know of any online programs that will do a free backup. I have no spare Hdd avliable.

---

### Post by Allavona on 2011-06-14
ghostborg (+1) hit the nail on the head. With a dock you can place it anywhere you want. Everyone keep in mind that Unity is new and can only get better.


> I would go back to 10.4 the Long Term Support release.
Good advice. 10.10 has a few months left, whereas 10.04 has a year and 1/2 left of support.

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2011-06-14
If you don't have a spare HDD, you could mount your Windows partition from inside Ubuntu and copy your /home folder over to it (assuming it is big enough).

Trying to upload an entire /home to "the cloud" would take a long time and be way too risky, IMO.  The whole point of backing up is to avoid such risks. ;)

---

### Post by Primefalcon on 2011-06-14
I am sitting back on 10.10 not by choice though :-(, I am honestly do really like Unity :-(

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-14
Ok. Then it must be about time to go and buy a HDD. Thanks for all of your help. Will make it as solved momentarily.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-06-14
flash drive have enough space for you they ate cheaper
always try new version in a virtual box/livecd and watch the forums to see how many horror stories come up before "upgrading" if there are a lot that is reason enough to not update

---

### Post by katykat on 2011-06-14
> **mister_playboy said:**
> backing up the home directory would involve copying everything in /home to an external HDD.  This contains all of the settings and files for everyone who used the computer.

You can reinstall Linux without messing up your dual boot.  Just don't do anything to the Windows partition during installation.

This is more complicated than it seems. 

For most folk the backup drive would be NTFS (Windoze) which would royally screw up permissions.

The only solution would be to tar the directories (and even compress them) before copying them over. One of the simplest and safest ways is to use F2 on Midnight Commander (run it as root).

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2011-06-14
> **katykat said:**
> This is more complicated than it seems. 

For most folk the backup drive would be NTFS (Windoze) which would royally screw up permissions.

I've had all my external drives ext* formatted for quite some time, so I did indeed forget about that issue. :popcorn:

---

### Post by inearlygaveup on 2011-06-14
To change back and forth I have used this instruction a few times and it worked for me - I have used it to move from 11.04 and back to 10.10 and back again.
You just have to reinstall some of your programmes.
I always keep a note of them in a text file in dropbox. I also backup most of my files to dropbox.

How-to Re-Install Ubuntu Linux 10.10 or 10.04 to Upgrade or Downgrade Linux Tutorial 

[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QGnsYuWS0xY](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QGnsYuWS0xY)

HTH

---

### Post by parkerskouson on 2011-06-14
Thanks for all the help. Finally feel back at home!

---

### Post by overdrank on 2011-06-14
Threads merged.

---

### Post by josephmills on 2011-06-14
Hi there with any form of ubuntu you can add a repository and then add unity,fluxbox,gnome3,kde or whatever 

**How to install unity on ubuntu 10.10** 

open your terminal (ctrl+alt+t)
then type in 
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:canonical-dx-team/une
```
then 
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install unity
``` 
then log out 
now when logging in select ubuntu netbook edition enter your password and there you go you have unity 


**How to install Xfce on ubuntu 10.10 **
open you terminal and type in 
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:koshi/xfce-4.8
```
then 
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install xfce4
```
then log out of you session and when you go to log back in select xface session and that is all there is to it .


[b]How to install gnome 3 on ubuntu 10.10 
[/b]
The first thing that we are going to do is open a terminal(ctrl+alt+t) 
Ok now that the terminal is open lets make sure that gcc is installed to do type in
```
gcc --version
```
Did you get an error if so please install it
```
sudo apt-get install gcc
```

then time for the dep 
```
sudo apt-get install curl libtiff4-dev libgstreamer0.10-dev libcroco3-dev xulrunner-dev mesa-utils mesa-common-dev libreadline5-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libwnck-dev librsvg2-dev libgnome-desktop-dev libgnome-menu-dev libffi-dev libgtk2.0-dev libgconf2-dev libdbus-glib-1-dev gtk-doc-tools gnome-common git-core flex bison automake build-essential icon-naming-utils autopoint libvorbis-dev libpam-dev libgcrypt-dev libtasn1-dev libtasn1-3-bin libgnome-keyring-dev libupower-glib-dev libxklavier16 libxklavier-dev xserver-xephyr python-dev libpulse-dev libjasper-dev jhbuild libgtop2-dev libsqlite3-dev libproxy-dev libdb-dev libproxy-dev libcups2-dev libusb-1.0-0-dev gperf
```
then 
```
sudo apt-get install curl jhbuild libjasper-dev libdconf0 libtiff4-dev libgstreamer0.10-dev libcroco3-dev xserver-xephyr xulrunner-dev python-dev mesa-utils mesa-common-dev libreadline5-dev libgl1-mesa-dev libwnck-dev librsvg2-dev libgnome-desktop-dev libgnome-menu-dev libffi-dev libgtk2.0-dev libgconf2-dev libdbus-glib-1-dev gtk-doc-tools gnome-common git-core flex bison automake build-essential icon-naming-utils autopoint libcanberra-dev libpulse-dev libvorbis-dev gnome-settings-daemon-dev libxklavier-dev libpam0g-dev libtasn1-3-bin libupower-glib-dev libgnome-keyring-dev libgtop2-dev libvala-0.12-dev valac libcups2-dev evolution-data-server-dev libecal1.2-dev libedataserver1.2-dev libedataserverui1.2-dev iso-codes sqlite3 libsqlite3-dev libproxy0 libproxy-dev libdb-dev libdb4.8 gperf libsoup2.4-dev libsoup-gnome2.4-dev python-argparse libsane-dev libgudev-1.0-dev libpolkit-gobject-1-dev liblcms2-dev libxcb-aux0-dev libxcb-event1-dev libx11-xcb-dev libgconf2.0-cil-dev libxtst-dev liboauth-deb
```
then must and I mean absolutely must – remove the .la files from /usr/lib and /usr/lib64. It seems that these files contain hard-coded paths, which cause issues with the compilation of your new sandbox installation of GNOME 3. So, let’s get rid of them. The easiest way to do this is
```
sudo find /usr/lib*/ -name "*.la" -delete
```
Next we need to download and execute the setup script, but first add the following to the path
```
export PATH=$PATH:/home/YOUR USERNAME/bin
```
Obviously, replace “YOUR USERNAME” with…your username. the bit before the @ sign in your command prompt,
next it is time to start the fun 
```
cd
```
then 
```
wget http://git.gnome.org/browse/gnome-shell/plain/tools/build/gnome-shell-build-setup.sh
```
then 
```
chmod +x ./gnome-shell-build-setup.sh
```
then 
```
./gnome-shell-build-setup.sh
```
then build time 
```
jhbuild build
```
this will take some time (two to three hours )and you will have to watch for errors 
then
```
cd ~/gnome-shell/source/gnome-shell/src
```
then 
```
./gnome-shell --replace
```
now you should have gnome 3 installed 
This will give you a happy sandbox to play in. It won’t affect your current GNOME installation, and you can test out GNOME 3 to your heart’s content. To get back to your previous window manager, simply switch back to the terminal and hit CTRL-C.

If you have been utterly blown away by the GNOME 3 experience or – like me – you just decide to doggedly persevere until you get it working exactly as you want, then type the following lines to replace GNOME 2 with GNOME 3:
```
ln -s ~/gnome-shell/install/share/applications/gnome-shell.desktop ~/.local/share/applications/gnome-shell.desktop

gconftool-2 -s /desktop/gnome/session/required_components/windowmanager "gnome-shell" -t strin
```

have fun with gnome 3 


**How to install kde on ubuntu 10.10 **

first thin open up a terminal (ctrl+alt+t)
then type in 
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:kubuntu-ppa/backports
```
then 
```
sudo apt-get update 
```
then 
```
sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop
```
then log out and when logging back in select kde and go have fun 

If anyone would like to know anymore fluxbox ect post hope that this helps with making a choice

---

