---
title: "14.04, Dell Studio 1735 running off SD card - grey screens a result of this?"
date: 2014-08-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dave131 on 2014-08-17
Newbie here.  I just got a Dell Studio 1735 for free off Craigslist but wth no hard disk.  While I'm waiting for a cheap hard disk I ordered to come in, I installed Ubuntu 14.04 to a 32GB SD card and am running it from that.  The system has 4GB of memory, and it seems pretty good.  Even off the SD card, it still goes from power on to logged in desktop in about 40 seconds - that seems great to me.  I am noticing something that I don't know what might be causing it, so I could use some input.  When I get on the net with Firefox (the adapter is B/G so I'm only getting 54mps - I get 300 on my other new laptop), there are times, particularly if there are images on the page, when the SD card activity is constant for a while and the screen "greys".  After a while it comes back and all is fine until another time it does it again.  Is this because I'm running of the SD card?  I did check the BIOS and it currently shows the video AMD RV635 with 256mb of memory.  I know that Unity is supposed to be "heavy" on video, so do you think I would have better luck running one of the other lighter dm's?

Thank you.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-08-17
I had a 1535 for a few years. There's something wrong with that model, especially the video. I think it was the 1st-gen Core2Duo.  

Anyway - using SD will be slow, even class10.  The only thing worse is USB2.

As to the wifi - you are NOT getting 300Mbps - that may be the claimed connection, but I bet you aren't seeing even half that in real-world throughput. The same applies to the 54Mbps connection - I bet the real thoughput is less than 50% that speed - probably much less.  Every added device effectively halves the current throughput - 1/27mbps, 2/12mbps, 3/6mbps ... you get the idea. That is the nature of older wifi protocols.

In short - if you want hight throughput - use the GigE ethernet port on the system. It does work well.

To Unity or not?  It doesn't hurt to try LXDE.  3 minutes of your time to try it. If it doesn't help or you don't like it, go back to Unity.  There are lots of links here for how to add another DE, so I won't repeat (or search for them).

---

### Post by dave131 on 2014-08-17
So - when I'm running the SD card via a USB2 card reader I've really shot myself in the foot! ;)  When the cheap disk I ordered gets here I'll give it a try - if things aren't as good as they seem they should be, I'll probably sell the thing on Craigslist (and selling something I got for free seems like a deal to me! ;) ),

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-08-17
Running over USB or SDHC is for installs or emergencies, not daily use, IMHO.
It can work, but not well. There are installs specifically design for that method - must will copy the entire install into a RAM dis tinycore is like that. It is VERY fast, but highly limited in features.

---

### Post by dave131 on 2014-08-18
So, I'll wait for the cheap hard disk to arrive before any more questions.  I figured it had to be from running off the SD card.  It is just a temporary thing while I wait for the hard disk - I was just anxious to see how this got-it-for-free-off-craigslist laptop worked. ;)

---

### Post by dave131 on 2014-08-18
I guess I was incorrect in my thinking on wireless as well - I thought wireless was only as fast as the slowest device in use.  Given 3 or 4 PC's/tablets on this side of the router, I didn't think speed was really affected.  If 2 or more devices are transmitting at the same time, yes - but even then I still thought collision detection, etc., still applied.  Maybe that's all only for a wired network?

---

### Post by dave131 on 2014-08-21
OK, the used hard disk I bought came today and I installed it.  Loaded Ubuntu 14.04, amd it flies so far.  I really hate to say it, but I have a new laptop I just bought about 2 weeks ago (cheap Toshiba model) and this thing seems to run faster than it.  And this thing was free plus the $14.99 I paid for a used 160gb disk drive. Guess I'll be selling the new laptop so I can recoup part of the money I spent!

---

