---
title: ".deb installed but can't be uninstalled"
date: 2013-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Draky on 2013-12-03
Hello.

I've downloaded a .deb file.
Installed it with gdebi.

Not, when opening in gdebi, it stills tells me to install.

I can't uninstall it !

I also tried with Ubuntu Software Catalog.
I tried "sudo dpkg --purge xxxx.deb" and it gives me an error :(

Any dea on how to uninstall this package ?

Thanks a lot :)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2013-12-03
Your not purging the installation file, your purging the package.
Try running the dpkg command, but use the package name

It's been a looong time since I ran gdebi day to day, so I forget what it's behavior is.

Some fun dpkg reading (at least to me it was fun)
[http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2010/06/install-remove-deb-package/](http://www.thegeekstuff.com/2010/06/install-remove-deb-package/)

This should give you an idea of how to get the packages name.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2013-12-03
Usage:
Your command should be: 
**sudo dpkg --purge xxxx** (don't put xxxx.deb)

**dpkg -s xxxx** will give status (again, not xxxx.deb)

Also, using apt, for deb package abc.deb:
use **apt-cache policy abc** to see if installed.
use **sudo apt-get remove abc** to remove (uninstall).
use **sudo apt-get purge abc** to purge (uninstall + uninstall config files)

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-12-03
You need to use

```
sudo dpkg -P package_name
```

to purge.

If you just want to remove it, use

```
sudo dpkg -r package_name
```

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2013-12-03
FYI:
testing the gdebi package installer by opening an already-installed .deb file, it shows the package status and three option-buttons:

> status:  same version is already installed.
reinstall
remove
download

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-12-03
Hmmm.  Good to know.  I'll have to file that one in the rusty bear trap I call my mind.

---

