---
title: "create startup script for bixdata"
date: 2007-01-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sirhan on 2007-01-16
hi,

Just now i was trying to create a startup script to run bixdata server and bixdata agent on boot but still haven't success. I was following the instruction from this link [http://resources.angelosystems.com/bixdata.html](http://resources.angelosystems.com/bixdata.html) that actually created for fedora user.

Is there anybody out there that can help me ?? ;)

---

### Post by schilcha on 2007-01-16
> **sirhan said:**
> Is there anybody out there that can help me ?? ;)

I guess so, but it's hard to guess what your problem truly is. You should try to reveal some of the details of your problem and your approach so far.

What exactly did you do (modifications to the script?)
Have you tried running the script from within the terminal? does it work there?
Have you looked at the log-files? are there any boot-messages regarding your script?

---

### Post by sirhan on 2007-01-16
Thanks to [http://rob.pectol.com/cgi-bin/startup_scriptbuilder.cgi](http://rob.pectol.com/cgi-bin/startup_scriptbuilder.cgi).
Very helpful to newbie like me ;)
I manage to run the start and stop command using the script below.
However the restart command in this script is not working. It just run the stop command.
I was trying to replace the the script in restart script with this :
                d_stop
		sleep 1
		d_start
but still the script only stop without start.
Any idea ??? :-k 

[I]#! /bin/sh
#
#  This script was generated by The Ubuntu Linux Startup Script Builder
#  version 1.5 located at [http://rob.pectol.com/startup_scriptbuilder/](http://rob.pectol.com/startup_scriptbuilder/).
#
#  Generated: Tue Jan 16 18:32:13 MST 2007

PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin

if [ -r /lib/lsb/init-functions ]; then
	. /lib/lsb/init-functions
	logbegin="log_begin_msg"
	logend="log_end_msg"
else
	logbegin="echo -n"
	logend=`printf "echo .\n"`
fi

# Exit if the daemon binary is NOT available, executable, etc.
test -x /home/admin/bixdata/runserver.sh || exit 0

# Start function
d_start() {
	/home/admin/bixdata/runserver.sh 
}

# Stop function
d_stop() {
	the_pid=`ps -A | grep runserver.sh | awk '{$1=$1;print}' | cut -d ' ' -f1`
	if [ "$the_pid" != "" ]; then
		kill -9 $the_pid
	else
		echo
		echo "PID not known!"
	fi
}

case "$1" in
	start)
		$logbegin "Starting bixserver: runserver.sh"
		d_start
		$logend $?
		;;
	stop)
		$logbegin "Stopping bixserver: runserver.sh"
		d_stop
		$logend $?
		;;
	restart)
		$0 stop
		sleep 1
		$0 start
		;;
	*)
	log_success_msg "Usage: bixserver {start|stop|restart}"
	exit 1
	;;
esac
exit 0[/I]

---

### Post by schilcha on 2007-01-17
The script looks all right. You could have left the restart-section as is, since $0 refers to the name of the script currently being executed and "$0 stop" will therefore start your script with the argument "stop" (and likewise for $0 start). 

One more question...
What do you mean with:
> but still the script only stop without start.
1) The script issues the "Starting bixserver..." message, but in fact bixserver isn't running afterwards.
2) The script does not even pretend (by printing the message) to start the server.
3) something else

After all, I have to admit that I can't really help you. I remember to have encountered similar problems with other init-scripts (although I can't recall which scripts did cause trouble). If start/stop works, I'd simply suggest to write another restart-wrapper-script that starts and stops the server (which is again what "restart" should do, but for whatever reason fails to accomplish). 

Still, good luck!

---

