---
title: "can't resolve machine names on network"
date: 2008-02-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by troutbum13 on 2008-02-17
I have a ubuntu server (CLI), that will not resolve the machine names of the other computers on the network. I can connect if I use IP addys and I can nmap the network, but not by name.  I can resolve the server name from the desktop but not the other way around.

This only effects local addresses can resolve google.com just fine.

I am at a total loss of where to start?  This is the first time I am running linux only from the CLI 

any tips?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-02-18
> **troutbum13 said:**
> I have a ubuntu server (CLI), that will not resolve the machine names of the other computers on the network. I can connect if I use IP addys and I can nmap the network, but not by name.  I can resolve the server name from the desktop but not the other way around.

This only effects local addresses can resolve google.com just fine.

I am at a total loss of where to start?  This is the first time I am running linux only from the CLI 

any tips?

Install a DNS server or the tools that resolve Microsoft Network names - like winbind.

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-02-18
do you have a "local" nameserver defined in **/etc/resolv.conf**?

---

### Post by troutbum13 on 2008-02-18
my WAP is the DNS server, I have a mix of linux and windows on the network. I have a ubuntu workstation that can resolve all the machines in the network (nix and windows alike) The ubuntu server doesn't resolve any names but it's own.

I looked at the /etc/resolv.conf and it is identical between the workstation and the server, but neither contained the local DNS entry. I added it to the server just in case...no joy

edit: If I add the entries to /etc/hosts everything works as you would expect, but my network is dynamic IPs so that is only a temp workaround.....

---

### Post by troutbum13 on 2008-02-19
can anyone point me in the right direction??

---

### Post by Samuelh3 on 2008-02-19
I'm having the same issue. I get my IP address using DHCP. Below is what I have in my resolv.conf file.

# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

search domainname.local


nameserver 10.150.2.31
nameserver 10.150.2.30


When I try pinging servername.domainname.local I am unable to resolve the IP. Any ideas?

Thanks,

SH

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-02-19
just keep in mind that there are 2 separate instances where you use DNS:

1. on a large scale - most of us use the DNS servers our ISPs provide
a. your router can automatically get the DNS servers from your modem, so you can set your **nameserver** in /etc/resolv.conf to be the router IP
b. put your ISPs DNS servers in /etc/resolv.conf directly

2. on a "small" scale, i.e. local hostnames/IPs for boxes that no one outside of your network knows about ...

you can have "outside" DNS working fine, but hostnames specific to local boxes won't get resolved until you have a **nameserver** in /etc/resolv.conf that's running a *local DNS server* which contains the hostname/IP mappings specific to your network ...

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-02-19
> **Samuelh3 said:**
> I'm having the same issue. I get my IP address using DHCP. Below is what I have in my resolv.conf file.

# generated by NetworkManager, do not edit!

search domainname.local

nameserver 10.150.2.31
nameserver 10.150.2.30

When I try pinging servername.domainname.local I am unable to resolve the IP. Any ideas?

Thanks,

SHyou'll have to be more specific about what 10.150.2.30 and 10.150.2.31 are and if "domainname.local" is a legitimate searchable domain for your network ...

---

### Post by windyweather on 2008-02-21
I'm having the same problem....
I tried editing the resolv.conf file to add:
nameserver 192.168.1.1

[my local router] to the beginning, This still didn't work and the Network Manager wrote over the file on the next reboot.

All local hostnames are apparently being resolved externally. Tracepath shows them as far away addresses. Windows machines on my network can ping each other and can ping the linux box all by name. But the linux box cannot ping by name only by address.

Thanks,
- windy

---

### Post by troutbum13 on 2008-02-23
I have tried to add the local DNS server to resolv.conf...no joy...seems a few of us trying to figure this out....bump for other ideas?

Here is a little more info

```

resolv.conf
nameserver 68.87.85.98
nameserver 68.87.69.146
nameserver 192.168.0.1 

```

the first 2 are provide by my ISP the last entry is my LAN DNS...

The strange thing is that I can resolve from one of my ubuntu machines (which does not have a resolv.conf entry for the LAN), not the others....

---

### Post by windyweather on 2008-02-23
> **troutbum13 said:**
> I have tried to add the local DNS server to resolv.conf...no joy...seems a few of us trying to figure this out....bump for other ideas?

Here is a little more info

```

resolv.conf
nameserver 68.87.85.98
nameserver 68.87.69.146
nameserver 192.168.0.1 

```

the first 2 are provide by my ISP the last entry is my LAN DNS...

The strange thing is that I can resolve from one of my ubuntu machines (which does not have a resolv.conf entry for the LAN), not the others....

I've solved my problem by installing winbind and then adding wins to the /etc/nsswitch.conf file. My nsswitch.conf file has this line now:
```
hosts: files wins mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

```

Hope this helps.
- windy

---

### Post by scxtt on 2008-02-23
you might want to add a "search" definition as well ...

search example.net
nameserver 1.2.3.4 # provided by ISP
nameserver 4.3.2.1 # local

---

### Post by fermulator on 2008-06-26
> **windyweather said:**
> I've solved my problem by installing winbind and then adding wins to the /etc/nsswitch.conf file. My nsswitch.conf file has this line now:
```
hosts: files wins mdns4_minimal [NOTFOUND=return] dns mdns4

```

Hope this helps.
- windy

CONFIRMED:  The solution above posted by windyweather worked immediately for me in Ubuntu 8.04 (Hardy Heron):


```
sudo apt-get install winbind
sudo nano /etc/nsswitch.conf
```

Add the **"wins"** entry to the *"hosts:"* line in this file and save.

This fix should work immediately (no networking restart required)

---

