---
title: "specify tcp/udp in firestarter"
date: 2005-07-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by duffman25 on 2005-07-11
Hi

I'm curious to know if you can specify tcp/udp when using the port fordwarding options of firestarter. It doesn't show any option, just port number. If it fordwards both I thinks it's a bad idea... Anyone has more info on this?

Thanxs

---

### Post by ubuntu_demon on 2005-07-13
[QUOTE=duffman25]Hi

I'm curious to know if you can specify tcp/udp when using the port fordwarding options of firestarter. It doesn't show any option, just port number. If it fordwards both I thinks it's a bad idea... Anyone has more info on this?

Thanxs[/QUOTE]
 as far as I know this is not possible

But this is not very bad in practice. have never encountered a situation where a program uses some port to do tcp and another program uses the same port to do udp.

That's why the security risk os this isn't very high too.

If you want to have complete control you can save the iptables generated by firestarter. Then modify those rules and then load the iptables again. Whenever you are finished modifying remove firestarter and create a script in /etc/init.d and make sure to point to it in runlevel 2. (I can eloborate on this if needed)

---

### Post by duffman25 on 2005-07-13
[QUOTE=ubuntu_demon]as far as I know this is not possible

But this is not very bad in practice. have never encountered a situation where a program uses some port to do tcp and another program uses the same port to do udp.

That's why the security risk os this isn't very high too.

If you want to have complete control you can save the iptables generated by firestarter. Then modify those rules and then load the iptables again. Whenever you are finished modifying remove firestarter and create a script in /etc/init.d and make sure to point to it in runlevel 2. (I can eloborate on this if needed)[/QUOTE]

Thanxs for the reply. I still think is a bad practice from the firestarter's developers. I've read in the ubuntu's breezy goals that there's a firewall in progress... so maybe breezy comes with a better aproach to this.

---

### Post by ubuntu_demon on 2005-07-14
[QUOTE=duffman25]Thanxs for the reply. I still think is a bad practice from the firestarter's developers. I've read in the ubuntu's breezy goals that there's a firewall in progress... so maybe breezy comes with a better aproach to this.[/QUOTE]
 An advanced option for this in firestarter would be nice.

this is the wiki page for the firewall. It is a low priority goal so it might not get into breezy :
[http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/Firewalls](http://udu.wiki.ubuntu.com/Firewalls)

According to the wiki page the firewall will be even easier to use than firestarter. So this is probably not what you are searching for.

There are other firewalls available (for example shorewall). But if a firewall is needed my personal preferences are : firestarter if you want easy or do it yourself with iptables

Also please note that on default all ports are closed. ports get opened when you install some deamon/service. So a firewall isn't necessary unless :
- you are running a server that gets visited a lot
- you are paranoid

But there's nothing wrong with being a little paranoid with computers. That's why I ran firestarter untill I decided to do it myself (just saved the iptables that firestarter generated and adapted them a little bit). I wanted to have complete control over my iptables because I'm working on a traffic shaper.

---

### Post by YaAqoB on 2005-07-14
I was wondering if anyone can tell me how to allow traffic through a specific port with firestarter.
Azureus won't work when I run firestarter. I have port forwarded a specific port in my router which works fine untill the firewall is started. How to I tell firestarter to allow this traffic on the port that I have setup in my router?

---

### Post by ubuntu_demon on 2005-07-14
[QUOTE=YaAqoB]I was wondering if anyone can tell me how to allow traffic through a specific port with firestarter.
Azureus won't work when I run firestarter. I have port forwarded a specific port in my router which works fine untill the firewall is started. How to I tell firestarter to allow this traffic on the port that I have setup in my router?[/QUOTE]
 just forward the port in your router to your pc and open the same port in azureus .. if you don't understand don't run firestarter at all because it's not strictlly necessary and your router is a firewall too

---

### Post by YaAqoB on 2005-07-14
I have already forwarded the port in my router and also entered that port in Azureus.
I have been using Azureus fine for the last 3 months.
I just out of interest added firestarter last night to have a play and learn some thing new.
If I disable the firewall Azureus works fine. 
I'm just curious to see how I can allow that port traffic inside firestarter. I mostly understand how it works & I don't want to give up just because I havn't been able to figure out how to allow that port in the first 5 minutes of use.

---

### Post by ubuntu_demon on 2005-07-14
[QUOTE=YaAqoB]I have already forwarded the port in my router and also entered that port in Azureus.
I have been using Azureus fine for the last 3 months.
I just out of interest added firestarter last night to have a play and learn some thing new.
If I disable the firewall Azureus works fine. 
I'm just curious to see how I can allow that port traffic inside firestarter. I mostly understand how it works & I don't want to give up just because I havn't been able to figure out how to allow that port in the first 5 minutes of use.[/QUOTE]
 ok
go to the policy tab and click (rightclick?) in the allow service section :)

---

### Post by YaAqoB on 2005-07-14
Fantastic. I appreciate your help :)
I'll give that a go as soon as I get home.
 \\:D/

---

### Post by duffman25 on 2005-07-19
Hi

Browsing the firestarter mailing list I've found this mail:
> 
Ryan wrote:
 > In the Firestarter GUI, is there any way to distinguish UDP from TCP 
 > ports in the GUI? If not, that would be a nice feature for rule making.
 
 Since this is a frequently asked feature, I will be adding it to the 
 next version.
 
 Regards,
 Tomas


:D

---

