---
title: "18.04/16.04 Complete System Lockup"
date: 2018-06-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Infamous Blob on 2018-06-23
Hi,
Used 16.04 for a long time. Anyway, few weeks ago the system started completely locking up. If sound was playing it'd repeat jarringly a few times before going silent. The mouse could not be moved, couldn't Ctrl-Alt-Backspace to kill X and Ctrl-Alt-F1 (or any other other Fs) wouldn't take me into tty (at least not visually). First idea I had was to clean out the inside of my PC (considering overheating, although usually when that happens power just outright cuts). This didn't make any difference. Also ended up replacing the CPU as part of this process since I snapped a pin off my old one whilst trying to apply new thermal paste. Still nothing. Updated to Ubuntu 18.04 to see if that made any difference and, although crashes were initially less frequent, they still happen (with the same frequency as 16.04 now). I have since enabled SysReq and the system does not respond to the magic keys. Had to press the reset button. Memtest86+ said that everything was fine when I ran it, although accidentally installed 18.04 in UFI mode so can't do that again (or differently, think I only tested one of the CPU cores? still new CPU now so not sure if that's the problem).

Last thing that seems to happen in the kernel log, on a number of occasions, is "radeon_dp_aux_transfer_native: [a number] callbacks suppressed" but Googling that makes it sound like a trivial issue (plus the text is scattered elsewhere through the log). "netlink: 'wpa_supplicant': attribute type 213 has an invalid length." is another common last thing said, but again, this is another message that crops up a lot and Googling makes it sound trivial. Nothing obvious in the logs at all

The crash has not occurred in Windows, although I use that far less so that could be why. Did nuke Windows out of frustration when I installed 18.04, so can't test further.

Things I've tried:
SMART testing the hard drives say they're both okay. Used extended test from a Live USB.
Memtest86+ said the RAM was okay (albeit only using one CPU core - is noteworthy that since I've installed the new CPU the machine only uses 12/20GB of RAM, in spite of it being detected, separate issue mind and not one that's life destroying).
I've cleaned inside the unit with compressed air and gone so far as to take fans off the graphics card to remove the dust from the heat sinks. No change.
CPU is not the problem since it's been replaced.
Reinstalling/updating Ubuntu (16.04 > 18.04) has not solved the problem
Disabling Compiz does not work as a solution.

Things I've not tried:
Replacing the graphics card with my old one (think that's probably got something to do with it maybe - does seem to occur more frequently when doing graphics heavier things like YouTube videos and playing games, although not a given, also happened whilst typing this out) - won't have chance to try this until tomorrow.

System Specs:
Ubuntu 18.04
Radeon R9 270X
AMD FX 8350/AMD FX 6300 (broke the 6300)
Two hard drives, one mounted as /home and the other as /
20 GB RAM (only 12GB showing, but again different problem)
Gigabyte 970A-DS3P Motherboard
Qualcomm Atheros AR9227 Wireless Network Adaptor

Can post logs if needed, but couldn't see anything glaring in them. Could be that it's crashing before it gets chance to write in the logs? Was going to try this [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/CrashdumpRecipe?action=show&redirect=KernelTeam%2FCrashdumpRecipe](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/CrashdumpRecipe?action=show&redirect=KernelTeam%2FCrashdumpRecipe) but it doesn't seem to have recorded anything. "Inspecting the crash dump using crash instructions don't work" and neither does "Inspecting the crash dump using apport-retrace" saying that "ERROR: "/var/crash/linux-image*.crash" is neither an existing report file nor a crash ID". Not sure if I'm doing it right, but still.

All help appreciated.

:)

Update: appears the issue was the computers original harddrive, mounted as / SMART must be inaccurate. It's a ten year old drive so it's had a solid run. Reinstalled on the newer drive and now all is well.
Update 2: appears it wasn't the computer's original harddrive, went back to misbehaving the following day. Removed the old 4GB RAM stick and it started behaving again.
Update 3: and it wasn't that either. Crashes are far less frequent without it however, totally lost.

---

