---
title: "9.10 not booting  *INITRAMFS*"
date: 2010-03-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by davesbrain on 2010-03-17
Please help.  This is getting frustrating.  
I have one hard drive and one operating system on that one drive.  No dual boot, no raid, no windows, no usb boot.  Just 9.10 installed on one 40 gb drive.  After trying the various techniques from this forum, I'm now stuck at Grub loading, error, grub rescue prompt. No menu list to choose from or edit (e).
Here is the output of 'sudo fdisk -l'

```
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40000000000 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4863 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xd0f4738c

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        4677    37567971   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            4678        4863     1494045    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            4678        4863     1494013+  82  Linux swap / Solaris
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo grub-install --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sda
cp: not writing through dangling symlink `/mnt//boot/grub/gfxterm.mod'
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
mount: /dev/sda1 already mounted or /mnt busy
mount: according to mtab, /dev/sda1 is already mounted on /mnt
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo grub-install --recheck --root-directory=/mnt/ /dev/sda
cp: not writing through dangling symlink `/mnt//boot/grub/gfxterm.mod'
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo update-grub
grub-probe: error: cannot find a device for /.

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ 
 

```
In the past this fixed it, now I get 
> cp: not writing through dangling symlink `/mnt//boot/grub/gfxterm.mod' never seen that before.
And when I try and reboot I get Grub loading, error, grub rescue prompt.

---

### Post by davesbrain on 2010-03-17
Actually, when I reboot,  It gets stuck at grub loading, can't find file, grub rescue.

(This started with a spontaneous reboot(don't know why), which of course didn't reboot properly and dumped me at the initramfs prompt)

---

### Post by fisheater on 2010-03-18
I had the same problem, wasn't able to solve it despite searching and trying some suggestions. I ended up reinstalling after copying off my data with a liveCD.

Good luck, and *bump*!

FE

---

### Post by l4zy on 2010-03-18
try to install grub to sda1 since it's your boot flagged partition.

---

### Post by davesbrain on 2010-03-18
It's now 2 AM.   When I booted with live cd for internet help, I opened my home directory (not the live cd home) to be clear, and it was EMPTY! Perhaps a noob thing, but all my stuff should have been there.  EMPTY!  So I thought at that point I might as well just do a clean install from fresh.  Install went smoothly, applied all updates.  When it was finished a reboot was required...wait for it......INITRAMFS!

I'm beginning to think this is just garbage.  Our IBM 8088 downstairs boots up just fine.  

Any ways, I do appreciate the help.  This is ridiculous.

---

### Post by davesbrain on 2010-03-18
Bad sectors- none
Self assessment- passed
Overall assessment- disk is healthy

and all green in the attributes.


After installing the OS a second time...I carefully picked through the updates and omitted ones regarding grub and kernel.  After the selected updates (minus grub and kernel stuff), the mandatory reboot went ok.  After more than 24 hours I'm almost back to where I was.

---

