---
title: "11.1 worth the upgrade?"
date: 2011-11-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tim.hoeffel on 2011-11-10
I don't see many posts praising the new upgrade. Sounds like it is more trouble than it's worth. Esp for a non techie. Any opinions?

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-11-10
Nobody can make that choice except you. Download the iso, burn it to a CD, try out the Live environment, and make an informed choice.

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-10
Is there a must have reason for upgrading?

Im always the "sit back and see" kind of guy,
Looking at the forums for the issues coming in, Im inclined not be inclined at the moment.... but thats just me.......

---

### Post by Lord_JABA on 2011-11-10
No if you have dual monitor setup. Compiz zoom not working under gnome shell so no full screen youtube so far..

---

### Post by DMGrier on 2011-11-10
I think 11.10 is more polished in a few ways to 11.04. I am really hoping to see some serious polishing for 12.04.

---

### Post by fyrmedic on 2011-11-10
You would probably be wise to sit back and see. It is a new release and there are always a lot of posts fixing bugs. Unless you have a compelling reason to upgrade or you just can't wait to check out the newest release, then I would wait a while to move up.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-11-10
Firstly, Ubuntu releases are dates. It's 11.10 (Oct. 2011).

Secondly, what version are you using now?

I'm running it on my desktop and my laptop and they are both working beautifully. Even hibernation on the laptop works great.

I've always had great success with upgrades. I know many people haven't. I'm a firm believer that many upgrade problems are caused by strange system configurations and modification, etc. For some of those people, a clean install is far better.

---

### Post by getaboat on 2011-11-11
I've been a content 8.04 user for years - hence my lack of posts for ages. I haven't upgraded because the PC is really old and slow, I had issues with the upgrade to 8.04 and it just works well.

I am now looking to replace my PC with some new kit (i5 laptop) so I thought I would have a look at 11.10.

First impression was how good it looks and whereas 8.04 was sort of in the XP mould, 11.10 looks to have gone down the Mac route.

I'm trialling it on old PC (P4+, 1.5GB ram, dual boot XP) and it does seem slow and it has to be said a bit unstable (plenty of freezes) - but this isn't my target box just a trial.

Finding stuff is a bit tricky, I'm still getting to grips with Unity and "the dash" etc. but one thing that took me while to spot was where "Help" was (front page of firefox). 

Rather than go exactly like for like I an using what is the apparent de-facto these days rather than what I currently use. That means Libre rather than OO, something else rather than Amorak etc.  I'm gradually loading the stuff I do on 8.04 to see how it works on 11:10 - next is some music, then comes all my LAMP stuff.


Anyway the point of this ramble is don't judge a product by forum posts - go and try it. When I do get my new kit for my "live" PC, I want to hit the ground running. I want to be using it - not fiddling. So try it out.

Barry

(Hmmm I'll have to get around to changing my sig.... shows how long I have been away!)

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-11-11
> **tim.hoeffel said:**
> I don't see many posts praising the new upgrade. Sounds like it is more trouble than it's worth. Esp for a non techie. Any opinions?

Always keep in mind that those with problems are also the ones most likely to post to these *support* forums.

The only way to see if things work on your system or not is to try it yourself. Use a live system for testing, if you want to play it safe.

Anyway, most users have no problems with 11.10, and of course the general idea is that each version should be more refined and have latest versions of available programs (which should make them more refined as well). So in theory the latest version should always be better than the previous ones. Your personal experience may of course vary depending on hardware compatibility and personal preferences. Both of which being things nobody else can tell you, of course, so trying is the only way of knowing. :)

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-11
> **tim.hoeffel said:**
> I don't see many posts praising the new upgrade. Sounds like it is more trouble than it's worth. Esp for a non techie. Any opinions?

The truth lies among the answers you received so far. Nobody has something really positive or too innovative to say. The usual staff, changes for the changes.

The most positive for me? 11.10 is a little faster than 11.04 and OOffice opens a little faster as well....I thing so.

---

### Post by liquidmonkey on 2011-11-11
unity seems to b more polished which is nice.
takes a bit getting used to but unity is better IMHO.

if you no super critical stuff on your machine, ie code that might be messed up with an upgrade, then go for it.

i like the upgrade, works great!

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-11-11
Whenever a new version of Ubuntu comes out, there are always a lot of complaints, and people say "The previous version was the best!". Then the next version comes out, there are a lot of complaints, and people say "The previous version was the best!".

Don't be a sheeple, try it out for yourself. I prefer 11.10 to 11.04, and a lot of other people do too.

---

### Post by kaldor on 2011-11-11
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Whenever a new version of Ubuntu comes out, there are always a lot of complaints, and people say "The previous version was the best!". Then the next version comes out, there are a lot of complaints, and people say "The previous version was the best!".

Don't be a sheeple, try it out for yourself. I prefer 11.10 to 11.04, and a lot of other people do too.

Took this screenshot last year for situations like this:

[img]http://dl.dropbox.com/u/11286141/Testomonials.png[/img]

;)

---

### Post by timgood on 2011-11-11
I hated 11.04 and went back to 10.10, but I have to say that 11.10 is very much improved, stable, fast and slick. While I am still not a big Unity fan, I am now getting more used to it and I remain productive in work terms which is more than I could say for 11.04

So much of this is probably machine specific, but things like Skype and Unity 3D now work 'out of the box' and the improvements to the Unity interface make it easier to find what you are looking for.

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Nikolai508 on 2011-11-11
Here is a blog post from my friend titled Unity Vs Gnome 3.

Personally I do not like Unity that much, so I have either not upgraded, or I have and then used the classic mode.

In my opinion I would have preferred to be using Gnome 3 with Ubuntu.

[http://fusionstrike.com/post/ubuntu-unity-gnome-3/#more-150]("http://fusionstrike.com/post/ubuntu-unity-gnome-3/#more-150")

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-11-11
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Whenever a new version of Ubuntu comes out, there are always a lot of complaints, and people say "The previous version was the best!". Then the next version comes out, there are a lot of complaints, and people say "The previous version was the best!".

Don't be a sheeple, try it out for yourself. I prefer 11.10 to 11.04, and a lot of other people do too.

I'll definitely give +1 to this. :)

Week before 11.10 was released people were still complaining about how horrible and buggy *11.04* is, and recommending every asker that they should stick with 10.10 or 10.04 instead. :D

---

### Post by jonobr on 2011-11-11
Funny story,

In a previous company , we had a lengthy telecom trial of our equipment in Western USA.

Over the trial period, we got complaints of slow speeds, disconnections, complaints from the carrier etc.

After the trial ended, the customers were notified of the discontinuation
We got a tremendous amount of emails and phonecalls saying how great it was and how could they keep it going.


The silent masses.....

---

### Post by bradlandreth on 2011-11-11
I personally like 11.10. Agree with everyone who says it is much more polished. Unity has progressed but still has room for improvements. I have 10.10 on my laptop and haven't upgraded it yet. I will have to say that....

I like 10.10 (and previous versions) better than 11.04
I like 11.10 better than 11.04

Like some said, download it and try it out since you are unsure how it will run on your hardware. That would be my main concern. 

Who knows, 11.10 may actually run smoother :D

---

### Post by TheVisitors on 2011-11-11
I'm a long time Windows user who is trying to like Linux.

I prefer Debian, but it can be a little troublesome to first setup.  Mint Debian offered me what I wanted, but not everything was so stable.

Ubuntu kind of falls in between the two.  I hated Ubuntu 11.04 and walked right back to Windows.  I'm using Ubuntu 11.10 now and it is more stable and offers most of what I wanted.

Though they've not made a point to advertise it much, GNOME 3 has been released for Ubuntu and I find it stable (while as Mint it was a clear issue).

---

### Post by CiaoCiao on 2011-11-11
Member of the silent masses here.  I love ubuntu and I post very rarely.  If there are problems (and there are) they are far more easily solve-able than windoze.

I went from 10.10 to 11.10 recently and I am very happy with unity.  I am still getting used to it, but I like the Dash and search for apps much better than anything previous....

Awesome screengrab kaldor.  Made me laugh very hard....

---

### Post by bobsageek on 2011-11-11
If you are on 11.04 the polish and improvements to Unity are worth it, if you are on an older version and you feel compelled to stick with Gnome2 for now, you won't be happy. I see no reason to not upgrade if you try it from  a Live CD or USB key and have no issues I say go for it.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-11-11
> **bobsageek said:**
> If you are on 11.04 the polish and improvements to Unity are worth it, if you are on an older version and you feel compelled to stick with Gnome2 for now, you won't be happy. I see no reason to not upgrade if you try it from  a Live CD or USB key and have no issues I say go for it.

I hear this said a lot (try the Live CD/USB first and if everything is OK, it's good to go) and I just have to say that this isn't quite true. It sounds real good though.

A lot of stuff is the same between the Live CD/USB and an install, but some things are not. A good example is that you can't try the proprietary video drivers from a Live CD/USB. And these seem to be where many people have issues. Also, issues related to GRUB will not show up until a real install (especially in a multi-boot system).

So just beware of those type of things and you'll be OK.

---

### Post by haresear on 2011-11-11
> **Slim Odds said:**
> I hear this said a lot (try the Live CD/USB first and if everything is OK, it's good to go) and I just have to say that this isn't quite true. It sounds real good though.

A lot of stuff is the same between the Live CD/USB and an install, but some things are not. A good example is that you can't try the proprietary video drivers from a Live CD/USB. And these seem to be where many people have issues. Also, issues related to GRUB will not show up until a real install (especially in a multi-boot system).

So just beware of those type of things and you'll be OK.

I'll second that. In my case the Live CD/USB worked fine, but after the HDD install, the first reboot left me with a black screen. I was able to sort it out, but the Live CD is definitely no guarantee -- particularly in the case of graphics issues. I also think it more likely the HDD install will behave like the Live CD if the install is done without an internet connection. Otherwise, updates (e.g. proprietary drivers) may get installed that don't work as well as the Live CD.

---

### Post by billcauley on 2011-11-12
I'm very pleased with the upgrade to 11.10.  Unity 2D is the best interface that I've ever used, and it was a total surprise, as it didn't work with the prior upgrade.  Nothing beats doing things like loading programs with two keystrokes (Super + no.).  I primarily use Thunderbird and Chrome with Google synchronization, and the LibreOffice suite covers just about everything else.  When I typed in a web address with Dash and Chrome loaded the website, I was sold!  Problems: I occasionally lose the keyboard, and need a restart while using keystroke combinations in Thunderbird; but as with most things in Ubuntu, a fix will be along shortly.  I could go on and on; ...just sign me a "happy user of Ubuntu"!.

---

