---
title: "14.10 (Utopic Unicorn) known bugs and work arounds"
date: 2014-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cariboo on 2014-10-28
This release hasn't had any real huge problems, so far about the only problem I ran into is installing drivers from xorg-edgers ppa while systemd is enabled. The work around is to disable systemd when installing drivers, then re-enabling it, once they have been installed.

To enable systemd on your system, simply add the following :

```
init=/lib/systemd/systemd
```

to:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
```

in /etc/default/grub

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-10-28
Minimize applications to panel doesn't appear to be a default behavior on my 14.10 installations and so I applied the same work around as 14.04.  

```
gsettings set org.compiz.unityshell:/org/compiz/profiles/unity/plugins/unityshell/ launcher-minimize-window true  
```

---

### Post by loukingjr on 2014-10-28
I wasn't sure where to post this but it seems one can't install 14.10 as a guest in VirtualBox but if you upgrade a 14.04 guest to 14.10 then it runs fine.

no idea why that would be.

---

### Post by andrew.46 on 2014-10-29
There seems to be a problem with installing 14.10 (Utopic Unicorn) as guest in some versions of Oracle VirtualBox, it fails to install when the display becomes corrupted. (On my system parallel bands of bright colors.) The work around on my system was to move to TTY1 (with VirtualBox, Right-Ctrl+F1), then move back to TTY7 (with VirtualBox, Right-Ctrl+F7) after this the installation proceeded as expected. After full installation the Utopic Unicorn Guest booted normally...

I found this solution to my problem here:

Xubuntu 14.10
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/Xubuntu](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/Xubuntu)

---

### Post by loukingjr on 2014-10-29
> **andrew.46 said:**
> There seems to be a problem with installing 14.10 (Utopic Unicorn) as guest in some versions of Oracle VirtualBox, it fails to install when the display becomes corrupted. (On my system parallel bands of bright colors.) The work around on my system was to move to TTY1 (with VirtualBox, Right-Ctrl+F1), then move back to TTY7 (with VirtualBox, Right-Ctrl+F7) after this the installation proceeded as expected. After full installation the Utopic Unicorn Guest booted normally...

I found this solution to my problem here:

Xubuntu 14.10
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/Xubuntu](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UtopicUnicorn/ReleaseNotes/Xubuntu)
Thanks. I'll see if it works with Ubuntu 14.10.

I first ran into this issue trying to install Kubuntu Plasma 5 but on my Mac hosts what I did was Cmd+f2 into a tty type startx and it opened the plasma desktop. It didn't work for Ubuntu 14.10 however and apparently didn't work for a host running Kubuntu 14.04.

I was told by one of the mods in the VirtualBox forum there is a fix in the works.
thanks again.

---

### Post by pizzalover1974 on 2014-11-02
That and every 14.10 proper install of an Ubuntu based distro has killed my Open GL. Ubuntu, Zorin and PClinuxOS. All have Open Gl renderer not working with steam. My card is fine, No problems in Win 7 games.

AMD FX 8120 3ghz 8 core CPU, 8GB (2 x 4) of G-Skill 2100mhz DDR3 ram, Asus HD7770 1gb Gddr5 ram, 2TB HDD.

*update* Dug up a 14.04 copy of Ubuntu Studio..will leave of patching that for a month till 14.10 is fixed fully.

---

### Post by raccoonstrait on 2014-11-04
I have had a number of issues with 14.10:

Plymouth has crashed several times on reboot.
The cups server stopped working, but I managed a fix by removing and re-installing the printer.
Gmail-notify stops working after some time, but works again after a reboot.
dpkg-reconfigure -a does not seem to be there anymore, and it is missed.
I wound up removing ~/.config/dconf in a terminal after stopping lightdm and then restarting it.
A number of other items stopped working and had to be reconfigured/re-installed, I wish I could remember the list.

One good thing, the XFCE weather plugin started working again.

raccoonstrait

---

### Post by timgood on 2014-11-07
Since the demise of AMD64+Mac images, older Macbooks like the 2,1 will no longer boot from the amd64 iso files provided. However, Thomas Schmitt has kindly provided a c program which cunningly converts the iso images into Mac bootable DVDs. I have compiled a 64bit version of his program which is available [here.]("http://eekageek.co.uk/uploads/Binaries/make_single_eltorito")

To use it, make it executable by:

```
 chmod +x make_single_eltorito
```
place it in the same directory as the downloaded .iso image and run it in a terminal without arguments:

```
 ./make_single_eltorito
```

Then burn the iso and enjoy 64bit Ubuntu on your older Macbook.

For other architectures, instructions on compiling the c program can be found [here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu-cdimage/+bug/1298894/comments/16"). You will need to change the image name in the program file to match the downloaded iso filename.

Thanks to Thomas Schmitt for his excellent program.

---

