---
title: "help with mounting external drives"
date: 2009-04-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shateredsoul on 2009-04-04
so when I try to mount all my external drives it says i'm not priveleged, some are ntfs formatted, and when i run the ntfs config tool they mount but then i can't unmount them.  My usb drive will not load at all 

here's my fstab, can anyone help?

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=954d41d7-f96c-422e-91c8-2ebb1698b4c0 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=d36bd3f1-ee9e-4a33-81ff-911c7c0ee2a8 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/Phoenix ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by joshrobinson on 2009-04-04
How are you trying to mount it when it says you arent privileged?
Whats the exact command and the output it gives?

---

### Post by shateredsoul on 2009-04-04
I insert my usb drive.. and that's all.  Same thing when I right click and click on mount.

---

### Post by shateredsoul on 2009-04-04
......... windows is looking better. Do I really have to go through this for such a simple thing as recognizing an external device? it's such a common problem (at leas it seems like).  Ubuntu is great, but it needs to at least fix this. I can't imagine my mother, quite a few friends, or my professors putting up with this when they just need to print from a usb drive, print, or do something that is extremely simple to do on Windows.   I have been trying to change to Ubuntu, but I swear I have an issue everyday.  The support on these forums was great at first, but there's also this condescending attitude that some users take "oh you haven't searched hard enough" either that or you get ignored completely sometimes makes this transition extremely hard.  Not everyone has the time or resources to find out what you already know.  If you already know it, share your knowledge.. isn't that the spirit of this whole thing in the first place?  

I can simply imagine a situation where I have to print from my usb... but to do that I have to run virtual box, and run windows within that... why the hell would I do that when it's so simply done from windows? I'm sad to say that I think I will be one of the first to change to windows 7 when it comes out.  

I even started a blog to help beginners like me.. but what can I blog about when the forum members half of the time ignore issues because they feel that the poster hasn't searched hard enough?

---

