---
title: "11.04 &quot;bash: sudo: No such file or directory&quot;"
date: 2011-07-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brainard52 on 2011-07-09
This is the same with git. I'm not sure if any other commands are like this, but I know that both of those commands are installed.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-07-10
What is the exact command you're typing?

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-07-11
Maybe it is a path problem. Try this:
```
$ whereis sudo
sudo: /usr/bin/sudo /usr/lib/sudo /usr/share/man/man8/sudo.8.gz

```or```
$ ls /usr/bin/sudo
/usr/bin/sudo
```
to see if it is in the system. And then try to run it like this:
```
$ /usr/bin/sudo
```
Regards.

---

### Post by mcduck on 2011-07-11
> **papibe said:**
> Maybe it is a path problem. Try this:
```
$ whereis sudo
sudo: /usr/bin/sudo /usr/lib/sudo /usr/share/man/man8/sudo.8.gz

```or```
$ ls /usr/bin/sudo
/usr/bin/sudo
```
to see if it is in the system. And then try to run it like this:
```
$ /usr/bin/sudo
```
Regards.

It's not missing the "sudo" command, the error message actually tells that "sudo" can't find the file or directory brainard52 is trying to access. (the "sudo:" part in the error tells that it's sudo that gave that error message)

brainard52: If you can give an example of a command that gave you this error, we'll probably be able to tell you what's wrong with the command.

---

### Post by brainard52 on 2011-07-12
Actually, it is giving me an error right when I first open up the terminal. I'm not sure why it's giving me this.

```

bash: export: `PATH:~/pogeymon-online/bin/': not a valid identifier

```

pogeymon-online is the name of a file that I used the git command to download. I wonder if that Had anything to do with it.

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-07-12
Could you post the result of this command?
```
$ grep -i path .bashrc 
```
Regards.

---

### Post by brainard52 on 2011-07-12
```

bash: $: No such file or directory

```

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-07-12
Don't type the $. That just means "run this as a normal user". A "#" means "run this as root".

```
grep -i path .bashrc
```

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2011-07-12
@ the OP: What is the output of...
```
echo $PATH
```

---

### Post by brainard52 on 2011-07-12
```
grep -i path .bashrc
``` gives me ```
bash: grep: No such file or directory
```



```
echo $PATH
``` gives me a blank line

---

### Post by papibe on 2011-07-12
It looks like you tried to customize your ~/.bashrc , you made a syntax error, and the important variable PATH got blanked.

Edit your ~/.bashrc and remove that change. Probably the line that says:
```
PATH:~/pogeymon-online/bin/
```
Hope it help.

---

