---
title: "22.04 recently started sleeping"
date: 2023-08-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bbnd2 on 2023-08-20
I'm running 22.04 LTS on a Dell desktop. Uname returns Linux xxxxxxx 5.15.0-79-generic #86-Ubuntu SMP Mon Jul 10 16:07:21 UTC 2023 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux.

This machine has been running for 8 months just fine. Recently (about 2 weeks ago) it goes to sleep around every 10 minutes. I have this setup as a headless machine and use ssh to manage. If I ping the machine it wakes up and I can connect. The problem with that is I am using this as a sudo server and I'd really like it to stay awake.

If you have any ideas how I can troubleshoot this, I'd like to hear them.

Thanks
Don

---

### Post by Rubi1200 on 2023-08-22
Excuse my ignorance, but what is a sudo server?

What is the output of this check:

```
systemctl status suspend-then-hibernate.target

```

Mine shows as Inactive.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-08-23
Well... Ugh. LOL

A few weeks ago there "was" an update that broke the sleep / hibernation settings. I use Gnome Sessions.

There was a change in Gnome38 for the default setting for "sleep-inactive-ac-timeout" to satisfy Energy Certification compliance.

To turn the setting back off, do:
```

gsettings set org.gnome.settings-daemon.plugins.power sleep-inactive-ac-timeout 0

```
Another work-around is to install "caffeine" so you can just toggle the setting from the desktop. That is what I do.

Edit: Why caffiene? Because at the moment, after that "update" breaking things, nothing else works but "that" to keep my laptop from sleeping. It doesn't make sense, but that is what "I'm" left with. The above should work, along with setting the sleep and suspend settings. Those alone should prevent it from sleeping, but after that update, caffiene is the only thing that keeps it from sleeping...

---

