---
title: "7.04: OpenOffice.org problem: text-only toolbars"
date: 2007-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Frem on 2007-04-28
I recently performed a fresh install of Ubuntu 7.04. In all OpenOffice.org applications, out of the box, all the toolbars have text labels, but no icons. I poked around in preferences and found a whole list of toolbar icon themes. Default was selected, but did not work. I tried to change themes and eventually found "Human", the only one which works for me.

Has anyone else had this problem? Are all the other icon themes simply not installed? If not, how can I install them?

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2007-04-28
That's easily fixed...

Open Synaptic do a search for "openoffice.org-style", install any (or all) styles you want to have installed - I just install all of them, so, to be honest, I'm not sure this will work if you only install some of them, but it should.

That should restore icons in Open Office, you may have to go to to the Tools/Options/View menu in OpenOffice and select the desired style of icons.

It worked for me, I hope it'll work for you ;)

---

### Post by Mustafa Temizel on 2007-04-29
I had same problem but I fixed it now. Thanks @fwojciec

---

### Post by Frem on 2007-04-29
It worked for me, as well. Thank you.

---

### Post by fwojciec on 2007-04-29
You're both welcome :)

---

### Post by compuguy1088 on 2007-04-29
> **fwojciec said:**
> That's easily fixed...

Open Synaptic do a search for "openoffice.org-style", install any (or all) styles you want to have installed - I just install all of them, so, to be honest, I'm not sure this will work if you only install some of them, but it should.

That should restore icons in Open Office, you may have to go to to the Tools/Options/View menu in OpenOffice and select the desired style of icons.

It worked for me, I hope it'll work for you ;)

I had the same problem and did exactly this after looking through all of the OpenOffice packages in Synaptic. It should really after install/upgrade install all those styles from the start,

---

### Post by Angelo75 on 2007-05-03
Thanks very much boys! All works now!! :D

---

