---
title: "10.04 - different wallpaper for each workspace"
date: 2012-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mpilting on 2012-05-06
I have read many threads about this issue, yet I can't find a solution that works for me. I want to have a different wallpaper for each workspace. I have installed the compiz extras, so compiz wallpaper shows up. I have disabled nautilus show desktop in gconf-editor. I have selected different wallpapers in compiz wallpaper. But each workspace still shows the same wallpaper. Is compiz wallpaper broken?

---

### Post by Zvlwab on 2012-05-07
> **mpilting said:**
> I have read many threads about this issue, yet I can't find a solution that works for me. I want to have a different wallpaper for each workspace. I have installed the compiz extras, so compiz wallpaper shows up. I have disabled nautilus show desktop in gconf-editor. I have selected different wallpapers in compiz wallpaper. But each workspace still shows the same wallpaper. Is compiz wallpaper broken?

I was able to set 4 different wallpapers when I was still using 10.10 and the desktop cube, so it should work.

Have you actually turned on 'Wallpaper' and 'Show Desktop' in Compiz config settings manager? (You didn't mention that)
Are you able to create files/folders on your desktop? (You shouldn't be)
Since it is showing only 1 wallpaper, which one is it?

---

### Post by mpilting on 2012-05-08
Hi zvlwab,

"Wallpaper" is turned on. "Show desktop" in Compiz config settings manager is unchecked. Right-clicking on the desktop does nothing, so I can't create files or folders there. The wallpaper shown is the one selected in "Appearance Preferences" - not any of the wallpapers in Compiz wallpaper. In the main menu, if I go under "System", "Preferences", "Appearance", "Background", I can change the wallpaper. This says to me that Compiz is not actually controlling the background, but rather GNOME desktop is. Is there some way to get GNOME to release control of the desktop?

---

### Post by Zvlwab on 2012-05-08
Are the image loading plugins enabled?

I don't think I can help you any further, since I don't run Ubuntu 10 anymore.

---

### Post by Enigmapond on 2012-05-08
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TnDP7rJcR5A](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TnDP7rJcR5A)

You need to adapt it for 10.04...

---

### Post by underquark on 2012-05-08
As far as I remember you can only have one wallpaper. BUT if you are willing to sacrifice having things on your Desktop you can have any bitmap you like as a background but you can't have all your icons on top of it.

---

