---
title: "11.10 Battery Life"
date: 2011-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by EuropaCar on 2011-11-16
I'm using 11.10 on my new laptop (a ThinkPad X220). It came with Windows 7 and I get around 6-6.5 hours battery life. When I switch over to Ubuntu 11.10 (I dual boot) I am getting barely 2.5.

Anyone have the same issues? Can anyone offer advice?
Thanks

---

### Post by EuropaCar on 2011-11-20
Anybody? Am I the only one experiencing these issues?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2011-11-20
It's a problem with the kernel, everyone one that has a laptop with a pci-e bus is affected by the problem. The only thing I can suggest is wait for a kernel update, as there is a fix for the problem being tested at the moment.

---

### Post by aura7 on 2011-11-20
Will installing an older version of kernel solve this problem ?

---

### Post by EuropaCar on 2011-11-24
Thanks for the response. Do you know if there's a way I can follow the process of fixing the issue? Is it in a bug report?
I just updated my kernel and the issue is still not resolved.
Thanks a lot

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-11-24
Some users report an improvement with this application . [http://shuffleos.com/3009/jupiter-a-light-weight-power-hardware-control-applet-for-linux/](http://shuffleos.com/3009/jupiter-a-light-weight-power-hardware-control-applet-for-linux/)

---

### Post by layers on 2011-11-24
are they trying to "fix" the battery problem after 3.0.0.13?

---

### Post by scarleo on 2011-11-25
I had great success in improving my battery life by adding```
pcie_aspm=force
```to kernel boot parameters, press 'e' in grub (this will revert on next boot). If you after testing want to make it permanent just add it to /etc/default/grub where the line reads:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
```So after editing:

```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash pcie_aspm=force"
```Then run 'sudo update-grub'

It is disabled due to some hardware incompatibility so you might experience problems with this option, so test before making permanent. For me I gained about 20% battery life.

Good luck!

EDIT: You can read here about this and other fixes that you can try as well: [http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_i915_power&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=intel_i915_power&num=1)

---

### Post by CaptainMark on 2011-11-25
an older kernel wont have this problem but you would have to use an older version of linux, im using meego on my netbook and get a massive boost in battery

---

### Post by scarleo on 2011-11-25
> **layers said:**
> are they trying to "fix" the battery problem after 3.0.0.13?
I think this regression was fixed in latest kernel 3.2-rc3, but I might be wrong. So you'll probably have to wait for 12.04 before this makes it into Ubuntu.

---

