---
title: "error: unknown filesystem    grub rescue:"
date: 2010-09-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TXS_FRED on 2010-09-17
I recently installed Ubuntu 10.04. I do not have any other os installed. I recieved an update notice today. After the updates installed the system rebooted to show...
 
error: unknown filesystem
 
grub rescue: 
 
 
I am a shiny new user to linux and do not understand ityet. I have read multiple forums on how to resolve the issue. I am not able to get the computer to boot past the grub rescue prompt.  I have tried to boot from the ubuntu disk, with no success. The prompt still shows up. A lot of the commands that are stated in many forums are "unknown commands" I have tried booting from rescue mode. "ls" is a good command and displayed my devices fine. "search" is an unknown command. "set" is a good command. set root is a good command. ls /boot results in a response of "unknown filesystem"   any help is appreciated. 
fdisk = unknown command
#fdisk= unknown command

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-09-17
TXS_FRED,

Welcome to Ubuntu!

Not having the ability to boot to a LiveCD and run the bootinfo script will make things more difficult, but perhaps we can work through it here.

Having a grub rescue prompt means that Grub2 is aware of the system but can't find the correct files. So let's try to get Grub to find them.

You seem to understand the Grub CLI. I am going to assume your files are on sda1. You will know from your *ls* command where they really are. Change any references to (hd0,1) and sda1 to the correct values if you know they are different.

No need to copy or type anything after the # symbol, which are comments about what you are doing or what you should see.

```
set prefix=(hd0,1)/boot/grub
set root=(hd0,1)
ls (hd0,1)/boot  # should see files, including your kernel and initrd files
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda1 ro
initrd /initrd.img
boot
```

If this doesn't work, tell us which commands failed.

---

### Post by Calico_jack on 2010-09-18
Hello,

I'm in the same situation as TXS_FRED, (and I'm totally new to ubuntu or any linux distribution)

I have windows 7 on one partition, and ubuntu on the second one.

Today I launched the updates in ubuntu, after this I was asked to reboot, so I did.

After this I got the message :

[B]error : no such device : b3894e69-e2c0-4971-b5ec-e5d194c96c39
grub rescue >[/B]

I have visited many help pages including this one : [COLOR=Red]https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2[/COLOR]

only few commands are working, ls ; set ; insmod and unset

I followed the instructions,

typing **ls**, i got only : **(hd0)**

than i typed :

**set prefix=(hdX,Y)/boot/grub **  
    **set root=(hdX,Y)** 

I replaced **hdX,Y** by **hd0** in both the lines. ( I also tryed with **hd0,1** and **hd0,0**)
The commands works.

But when I enter : **ls /boot**
I get : **error unknown filesystem**

entering this :** insmod /boot/grub/linux.mod**
I get : [B]error unknown filesystem
[/B]
And so on for any command[B].

[/B]I hope you know a way out !

Thank you very much.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-09-18
Calico_jack,

Welcome to the Ubuntu forums. Although you have the same error message, your situation is different.

When you type "ls" and get (hd0) as a result, it means that Grub is not seeing *any* partitions. It sees the drive (hd0), but no partitions - such as (hd0,1) . This is not the case with the OP, as determined in discussions elsewhere.

It would be best for you to start your own thread, and post the contents of the RESULTS.txt file generated by running the bootinfo script found here:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/").

Since your problem was also an upgrade, it's possible the two are related. I'll monitor both threads as well as other posts and if I find a common solution I'll be sure to post in your thread.

---

### Post by Calico_jack on 2010-09-18
Thank you very much, I understand now why after hours of trying i didnt get it to work :D.

I will try to run the bootinfo script, but I dont have a liveCD yet. I will figur it out.

thanks again

---

### Post by asm_new on 2010-09-29
Hi,

I have the exact same issue as calico_jack. I tried creating a live cd/usb. Both of them start to boot but after a while they give me a blank screen and nothing is functional. I can run only ls and set commands in my grub_rescue. ls lists hd0, fd0, fd1 on my system. I am not sure how to proceed. Please help. I have valuable information I want to retrieve from my PC.

Thanks,

---

### Post by nytbis on 2010-09-29
Hi, 
I have the same problem as TXS, but did not solve my problem (TXS, did you solve it??).

To command 'ls' I have:
(hd0) (hd0,1 ) (hd0,2) (hd0,3) .. etc. etc.

I tried to type your lines, drs305,

Code:
set prefix=(hd0,1)/boot/grub
set root=(hd0,1)
ls (hd0,1)/boot  # should see files, including your kernel and initrd files
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda1 ro
initrd /initrd.img
boot

But here:
ls (hd0,1)/boot

I have:
error: unknown filesystem.

What to do?
Nevertheless my pc burn during this operations... :(

nytbis.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-09-29
> **nytbis said:**
> 
But here:
ls (hd0,1)/boot

I have:
error: unknown filesystem.

What to do?
Nevertheless my pc burn during this operations... :(

nytbis.

Ah... do you still have a computer? Hope so.

Anyway, you might want to boot to a LiveCD and mount your sda1 partition to see if the Ubuntu files exist (assuming this is a normal install and not wubi). You can open a terminal and should be able to mount your real Ubuntu partition with:```


sudo mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
```
and then open a browser and look at the contents of /mnt/boot to see what is there.

If there is nothing, you may have to reinstall Ubuntu, but in either case it would be best to start your own thread and include the contents of RESULTS.txt, which you will get by running the boot info script found here:
[_http://bootinfoscript.net/_]("http://bootinfoscript.net/")

---

### Post by nytbis on 2010-09-29
Ok, thanks. I did it and in the /mnt/boot folder I found:

- a Font/ folder
- a bcd file
- a BCD.log file (corrupted, unreadable)
- a boot.sdi file
- a bootfix.bin file
- a etfsboot.com file

now?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-09-29
> **nytbis said:**
> Ok, thanks. I did it and in the /mnt/boot folder I found: ...

now?

This (sda1) is not your Ubuntu installation, which must be on another partition if it exists.

You can try to find the correct partition by typing the following at the grub prompt until you find the one with the kernel and initrd images in it, or you can run the boot info script and post the results here:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/]("http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/")


If you just want to search from the grub prompt, type:

ls (hd0,2)/boot
ls (hd0,3)/boot
etc for each partition (hdX,Y) you found with the ls command. I would try ls (hd0,5) first, since that is often the partition on which Ubuntu installs if not on sda1.

---

### Post by K_Boomer on 2010-10-08
I recently had this problem with my old hard-drive and I brought it into a computer shop, which is against my personal beliefs. After forking over $59 and having them totally delete everything on my hard-drive with their "government" program (scary), they told me it wasn't worth the time fixing it and that I should get a new hard-drive.
After buying a new HD, I did the same stupid mistake, and was visited by by the 
grub rescue> 

no commands except "set" were recognized. "mount" "linux" "kernel" "sudo" and "help" were not recognized.

**Here is how I solved it:**
Pretty much what everyone's saying:

set prefix=(hd0,5)  (or the drive that has your ubuntu CD in it)
set root=(hd0,5)

Then I rebooted and my computer recognized that it should boot off of the disk instead of freaking out and jumping straight into grub rescue.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-08
> **K_Boomer said:**
> I recently had this problem with my old hard-drive and I brought it into a computer shop, which is against my personal beliefs. After forking over $59 and having them totally delete everything on my hard-drive with their "government" program (scary), they told me it wasn't worth the time fixing it and that I should get a new hard-drive.
After buying a new HD, I did the same stupid mistake, and was visited by by the 
grub rescue> 

no commands except "set" were recognized. "mount" "linux" "kernel" "sudo" and "help" were not recognized.

**Here is how I solved it:**
Pretty much what everyone's saying:

set prefix=(hd0,5)  (or the drive that has your ubuntu CD in it)
set root=(hd0,5)

Then I rebooted and my computer recognized that it should boot off of the disk instead of freaking out and jumping straight into grub rescue.

K_Boomer,

Nice that you were able to troubleshoot this on your own, but sad the 'professionals' couldn't.

The "set prefix" command is the easiest part of the equation to overlook. If the prefix path is wrong the boot may eventually fail at some point.

This is especially true if one is attempting to modify a menuentry (not your case) since it's not one of the lines in the entry itself and you have to go to the prompt to set it.

---

### Post by leeagt on 2010-10-15
sorry to bump an old thread. 
 
The issue i have is
 
error: unknown filesystem
grub rescue > set
prefix=(hd0,msdos1)/boot/grub
root=hd0,msdos1
grub rescue > ls
(hd0) (hd0,msdos5) (hd0,msdos1)
 
 
I have tried setting prefix and root to each of 
(hd0) (hd0,msdos5) (hd0,msdos1)
 
but nothing works. 
 
I am unable to boot off my 10.10 usb drive as there is a bug in the usb image creation 
 
I get the following
 
ubuntu SYSLINUX 4.01 debian-20100714 EDD Copyright (C) 1994-2010 H. Peter Anvin et al
 
but no prompt to be able to type anything
 
I take it my netbook is screwed ?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-15
> **leeagt said:**
> sorry to bump an old thread. 
 
The issue i have is ...
but nothing works. 
 
I take it my netbook is screwed ?

If the problem is the Grub prompt, I wrote a guide about booting from the Grub rescue prompt that may help get your system running:
[Grub Rescue Prompt Megathread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594052")

If the problem is occurring with your actual system files (after Grub transfers control to the kernel), which I think is what you are describing, do you have a way of downloading an ISO image that would be accessible from your netbook?  If so, we might be able to boot the ISO image from the Grub rescue prompt, which would at least allow you to reinstall Ubuntu or possibly repair your existing installation. If you can download an image, please give me it's potential location and I can give you the commands to try to boot it from the grub rescue prompt. Also please tell me which version you would want to install (Lucid, Maverick, 32 bit, 64 bit, etc).

---

### Post by leeagt on 2010-10-15
cheers i'll d/l 10.04 when i get home on my daughters windows PC and see if i can get it to boot.

---

### Post by thegandalf on 2010-10-19
Hi all, 
I have the same problem as Calico_jack post above. I type ls and it display only "hd0". And only few commands work in grub (same as Calico_jack)

I had installed ubuntu 10.10 throught wuby and then I installed "Burg" for ubuntu ,when I reboot I got this problem.

Can anyone help me ?

Thanks alot

---

### Post by bcbc on 2010-10-19
> **thegandalf said:**
> Hi all, 
I have the same problem as Calico_jack post above. I type ls and it display only "hd0". And only few commands work in grub (same as Calico_jack)

I had installed ubuntu 10.10 throught wuby and then I installed "Burg" for ubuntu ,when I reboot I got this problem.

Can anyone help me ?

Thanks alot
burg is not for wubi. Most likely you installed it's bootloader which will do nothing since it can't see your loopmounted partition.

So 1) reinstall the windows bootloader, or from a live cd install lilo (ignoring warnings regarding booting ubuntu) as follows:
```
sudo apt-get install lilo
sudo lilo -M /dev/sda mbr
```

2) Then, if you still have grub.cfg you should be able to boot both windows and ubuntu normally. If you don't have grub.cfg (I think burg uses burg.cfg) then you'll have to boot manually.
3) If grub-pc was uninstalled when you installed burg, then you will need to reinstall it to benefit from the automatic updates to grub.cfg - if you have to reinstall grub-pc, do not allow it to install it's bootloader to /dev/sda (or anywhere else) or you'll be back at a grub rescue prompt.
4) here are some manual wubi boot instructions if you find yourself at a grub prompt (not a grub rescue prompt). This example assumes wubi is on /dev/sda1 i.e. (hd0,1):
```
set root=(hd0,1)
loopback loop0 /ubuntu/disks/root.disk
set root=(loop0)
linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda1 loop=/ubuntu/disks/root.disk ro quiet splash
initrd /initrd.img
boot
```

---

