---
title: "8.04   USB format  Ext. 3"
date: 2009-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by interse on 2009-03-02
When I formatted my USB stick to Ext 3, my computer was unable to recognize it.   When I reformatted the 8.0 GB USB, the stick was recognized.

Would prefer to use either Ext 2 or Ext 3.   What do I need to do to make recognition possible?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-03-02
> When I formatted my USB stick to Ext 3, my computer was unable to recognize it.Is this computer running ubuntu or windows?  If ubuntu, there should be no problem at all and the computer should see it straight away when you plug it in.  If windows, it will not be seen without a third party ext3 driver installed, such as explore2fs.

---

### Post by interse on 2009-03-02
Running 8.10 exclusively.   Tried another USB stick formatted it to Ext 2 and it was recognized.  BUT, I could not save files to it from the desktop (files created just for this purpose) because I did not have permissions.   When I viewed Permissions, all of the options were dimmed and not accessible.

---

### Post by interse on 2009-03-04
Trying to use a Ext 2 or Ext 3 formatted USB stick for data storage.  
Need read and write access.  My exclusive Ubuntu system recognizes the USB stick but doesn't  let me access the drive because all of the Permissions are dimmed.  What is wrong and how can I change the situation?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-03-04
With the drive plugged in, press Alt+F2. Type gksu nautilus and then type your password. Once open, go to /media. Right-click on usbdisk, and select Properties. Go over to the Permissions tab, and enable writing for all users.

---

