---
title: ".htaccess password protection problem"
date: 2011-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SKDevelopment on 2011-04-01
Hello,

I have got a very strange problem. I am trying to protect a folder with .htaccess under Ubuntu.

I have created a folder 

/var/www/test/

and gave it permission 755. 

I have changed AllowOverride in etc/apache2/sites-available/default for / and /var/www/ to All

I have added the following lines 

<Directory /www/var/test/>
    AllowOverride All
</Directory>

to the very end of etc/apache2/apache2.conf

I have created the password file in  /www/var/test/ with the command

htpasswd -c .htpasswd admin

I have set the .htaccess in  /www/var/test/ with the following lines:

AuthUserFile /var/www/test/.htpasswd
AuthType Basic
AuthName "SecretPlace"
require valid-user

I tried to give both .htaccess and .htpasswd different permissions including 644 and even 777. I changed their owner and group to www-data.

Nothing helps. I am getting error 403 in the browser when trying to access index.php.

When I remove .htaccess the file index.php is perfectly accessible.

In the var/log/apache2/access.log I see the following:

10.1.0.012 - - [01/Apr/2011:11:52:39 +0400] "GET /test/index.php HTTP/1.1" 401 778 "-" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows; U; Windows NT 6.1; en-US; rv:1.9.2.16) Gecko/20110319 Firefox/3.6.16"


Trying to give the folder password protection without .htaccess - directly in 

etc/apache2/sites-available/default

gives the same error 403. I understand nothing.

Nothing helps. Any hint would be very valuable. I have lost a lot of time but I am still unable to protect the folder. Just any hint would be greatly appreciated.

Edit: for anyone who could be interested: the HTTP server was behind Microsoft ISA Server. Microsoft ISA Server seemed to change HTTP headers from code 401 to 403 automatically. So the users never saw the authentication form.

---

