---
title: "Ubuntu 5.10 - DHCP Server?"
date: 2005-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by m0e on 2005-11-30
I know this has been discussed in these forums before, but after almost 10 hours of searches, configuring, reconfiguring I still have no ICS joy. 
I have a desktop computer with a wirelees NIC and a wired NIC with Ubuntu 5.10 installed. I would like to use it as an access point when I am working on other computers, no matter what OS is installed on them. I have tried using the Firestarter method and keep getting the "Failed to start DHCP server" error. I have tried to install Webmin but can't open it no matter what I try, not sure why it is even downloadable through Synaptic. I've tried to manually edit my dhcp3.conf and dhcp3-sever files and have had no luck. 
My internet/network setup consists of cable modem connected to a Linksys wireless router. The Ubuntu machine connects to the router through the wireless NIC (wlan0). Can someone point me in the right direction to get the wired NIC (eth0) on the Ubuntu machine to act as a DHCP server and allow internet access to the client machines I have hooked up to it. I had this configuration working when I had Mandrake installed on this desktop but after upgrading to Mandriva 2005 the ICS stopped working and the machine seemed slower overall so I decided to try Ubuntu on it since I liked the way it ran on a machine I have with similar specs. I had a Win98 machine hooked up to it last week and had the ICS working then using static IP's, but after messing around with trying to get the DHCP server working I can't even do that now. I had to combine things I had read in a couple of different threads to make that work and after trying so many different things to get the DHCP server to work I have forgotten the exact steps I took before. I tried setting up the DHCP server acording to the Unofficial Ubuntu Guide but to no avail. The fact that the files it showed how to modify aren't located where it says to find them tells me it needs to be updated. 
Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by matthewv on 2005-11-30
Maybe try firestarter.. it is a firewall but can be configured as a dhcp server and sharing internet

---

### Post by greenway on 2005-11-30
I had some similar problems some time ago and I fixed it by configuring the DHCP server manuallly and instructing firestarter to use the excisting configuration. You set this under preferences>firewall>network settings>DHCP server details.

Configuring your dhcpd.conf file is pretty straight forward, if I remember correctly there is even an example configuration file included with dhcp3. If you need help with this, post your file here.
Also make sure you are editing the file located in /etc/dhcp3 not the in /etc, the last one is the one that firestarter uses. It's actually a copy of the original one in etc/dhcp3 so editing it might just work. However, to be sure stick to the one in /etc/dhcp3

Make sure the DHCP server is running (sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server start, if this one fails it's probably because it's already running, type sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server restart to be sure).

If you're sure the server is running but it's still not handing out leases, take a look at the TCP packets moving through eth0 (sudo tcpdump) and see if that gives you any clue.

[EDIT]Taking a look at /var/log/messages also might give you some clues about what's wrong[/EDIT]

---

### Post by m0e on 2005-11-30
How can I tell if the DHCP server is running? As I stated in my previous post Firestarter gives an error when I try to enable the dhcp server. When I do “sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp-server restart” from the terminal nothing seems to happen and connected machines show no dhcp server available. My Internet connection is through my wireless card (wlan0) which I have set to automatically get an IP through the dhcp server in my Linksys wireless router. My local network is connected by my Ethernet card (eht0) which I have set to a static IP. If I do “tcpdump -v” from the terminal it shows a connection from the connected machines IP, but trying to ping from either computer gives a host unreachable error.

This is the contents of my /etc/dhcp3 folder

dhclient.conf
dhclient-exit-hooks.d  
dhcpd.conf   
dhcpd.conf_backup
dhclient-enter-hooks.d  
dhclient-script        
dhcpd.conf~

Is there something missing from this?


This is the dhcpd.conf file

# DHCP configuration generated by Firestarter
ddns-update-style interim;
ignore client-updates;

subnet 192.168.0.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
	option routers 192.168.0.1;
	option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
	option domain-name-servers my.isp.dns.01 my.isp.dns.02;
	option ip-forwarding on;
	range dynamic-bootp 192.168.0.2 192.168.0.254;
	default-lease-time 21600;
	max-lease-time 43200;
}

That looks right to me, but I could be wrong.

This is the dhclient.conf file

# Configuration file for /sbin/dhclient, which is included in Debian's
#	dhcp3-client package.
#
# This is a sample configuration file for dhclient. See dhclient.conf's
#	man page for more information about the syntax of this file
#	and a more comprehensive list of the parameters understood by
#	dhclient.
#
# Normally, if the DHCP server provides reasonable information and does
#	not leave anything out (like the domain name, for example), then
#	few changes must be made to this file, if any.
#

#send host-name "andare.fugue.com";
#send dhcp-client-identifier 1:0:a0:24:ab:fb:9c;
#send dhcp-lease-time 3600;
#supersede domain-name "fugue.com home.vix.com";
#prepend domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
	domain-name, domain-name-servers, host-name,
	netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope;
#require subnet-mask, domain-name-servers;
#timeout 60;
#retry 60;
#reboot 10;
#select-timeout 5;
#initial-interval 2;
#script "/etc/dhcp3/dhclient-script";
#media "-link0 -link1 -link2", "link0 link1";
#reject 192.33.137.209;

#alias {
#  interface "eth0";
#  fixed-address 192.5.5.213;
#  option subnet-mask 255.255.255.255;
#}

#lease {
#  interface "eth0";
#  fixed-address 192.33.137.200;
#  medium "link0 link1";
#  option host-name "andare.swiftmedia.com";
#  option subnet-mask 255.255.255.0;
#  option broadcast-address 192.33.137.255;
#  option routers 192.33.137.250;
#  option domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1;
#  renew 2 2000/1/12 00:00:01;
#  rebind 2 2000/1/12 00:00:01;
#  expire 2 2000/1/12 00:00:01;
#}

This is definitely the default one installed with the dhcp-server, shouldn't this have changed or been regenerated by Firestarter once the dhcp-server was started? Or doesn't this file count?

---

### Post by greenway on 2005-12-01
When you run "sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server restart" does it give something like:

Stopping DHCP server: dhcpd3.
Starting DHCP server:dhcpd3.

If not, it's not running... 

Then just be sure, check if your client sends out a request for a lease, take a look at your /var/logs/deamon.log file. There should be a bunch of DHCP requests in there. If not, the problem is with your client (and we will take it from there).

If your client is ok, just forget about firestarter for the moment and let's try to get it working without it. To make sure your DHCP server is up and running. Type "sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server stop" and then "sudo /etc/init.d/dhcp3-server start". Then it should be running, assuming it's properly installed on your box.

I have included a copy of my dhcpd.conf file.

Finally, take a look at your server's /var/log/messages file if it gets the requests and replies to it with a valid lease. It also might give you an idea what's wrong with your configuration file (if there's something wrong with it ofcourse). If you can't make anything of this, post your messages file and I will take a look lateron.

goodluck

---

### Post by m0e on 2005-12-01
Okay, when I tried to start, stop, or restart dhcp-server from the terminal it would just return to the prompt without anything seeming to happen, no message saying service started or stopped. The /var/logs/deamon.log file was empty, so I used Synaptic to uninstall dhcp v2.x and then installed dhcp-server v3.x. After that I was able to start the dhcp server from terminal. so far so good. I started my client machine (Win98 this time) and after running “ipconfig /renew_all” it received an new IP from the Ubuntu box, SUCCESS, YAY! At this point I could ping both network cards on the Ubuntu machine from the Win98 box but couldn't see the Internet from there. After starting Firestarter with ICS enabled the Win98 box connected to the Internet immediately. I am still getting an error message from Firestarter about the dhcp server not starting but everything seems to be working so I can live with that for now. Thanks for all the help. It definitely helps if there is someone to point you in the right direction and show you things you didn't even know to look for.

---

### Post by greenway on 2005-12-02
Great! Succes finally!

Don't mind the errors in firefox by the way, mine also spits out error messages every now and then while everything is working fine.

Mattijs

---

