---
title: "10.4: Programs keep crashing."
date: 2010-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rmjohnson144 on 2010-05-16
I just reinstalled 10.4 from CD (last was an upgrade from 9.10 to 10.4). and now programs keep closing on me for no reason.  I can't surf with firefox without crashing all the time and Deluge keeps closing on my downloads.

any clues? the upgrade didn't give me this problem
-=Mark=-

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2010-05-16
open the programs from the terminal and see what output it gives when they crash.

---

### Post by rmjohnson144 on 2010-05-16
I started bothh firefox and deluge and they both just report a segmentation fault on error and nothing else.

-=Mark=-

---

### Post by rmjohnson144 on 2010-05-17
I think I found the problem.  After searching this error, I found it to be memory related then realized I was over clocking my CPU/Memory and forgot to reset my settings as I couldn't get things stable the other day.

I have reset the over clock now and so far things are peachy keen.

Thanks for the help
-=Mark=-

---

### Post by iponeverything on 2010-05-17
> **rmjohnson144 said:**
> I think I found the problem.  After searching this error, I found it to be memory related then realized I was over clocking my CPU/Memory and forgot to reset my settings as I couldn't get things stable the other day.

I have reset the over clock now and so far things are peachy keen.

Thanks for the help
-=Mark=-

Doh! I do things like this every now and again. Make some changes to test and forget to completely undo them -- then I end up spending several hours a week or so down the road debugging the issues caused by my changes..

---

### Post by Joe of loath on 2010-05-17
I think we all do... I did 5 windows reinstalls on my media center before I realised that my games were crashing because I had overclocked it...

---

