---
title: "&quot;Unable To Copy Users Xauthorization File&quot; error"
date: 2007-02-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ghandi69_ on 2007-02-21
I get this error whenever I try to open the packet manager or install software..... This seems to still be stemming from the crash caused from the last update which I had to do a xserver reconfigure to get back....

Also.. whenever I try to open an application that uses Full Screen (Like astromenace...)  I get the an error that says...

> Can't set video mode 640 x 480 x 16
Wrong resolution. Fatal error.


.. I run regular desktop operation under 1280 1024 32

Here is my xorg.conf file.. in case that helps..

> tony@Coolblue:/etc/X11$ cat xorg.conf
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
        Option          "XkbOptions"    "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ExplorerPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "stylus"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "stylus"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "eraser"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "eraser"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
  Driver        "wacom"
  Identifier    "cursor"
  Option        "Device"        "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
  Option        "Type"          "cursor"
  Option        "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Nvidia GeForce 7600GT"
        Driver          "nv"
        BusID           "PCI:5:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       30-100
        VertRefresh     50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Nvidia GeForce 7600GT"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection


---

### Post by ghandi69_ on 2007-02-23
uggh! That was the longest 24 hours ever.. but I did wait the whole 24!! lol

anyway.. really no one has seen this error?

---

### Post by robin. on 2007-02-26
I am recieving the 'Unable to Copy Users Xauthorization File' error when I attempt to use sudo apt-get or access the synaptic package manager.

---

### Post by ghandi69_ on 2007-02-27
Yeah, I never found a solution to it.  I ended up doing a fresh reinstall... Which keeps with my average of having to reinstall ubuntu about once a week since I started using it 3 months ago... 

:)

---

### Post by robin. on 2007-03-01
You're probably using linux much more intensively than me though.

I've been procrastinating on tinkering around and exploring ubuntu for several months now. Only recently has the curiosity been rekindled in an interest to use the do-all, end-all command line to handle my navigations rather than the clickety-click-click mess of rummaging through files, folders, and apps.

Its been great so far--only daily function I can't quite see myself replacing right now is gmail with pine/mutt haha.

In regards to the xauthorization file issue:

- I was running xubuntu 5.10 at the time, installed via a server install from an Ubuntu 5.04~06 ISO disc.
    > I was attempting to use sudo to install tilda & edit my sources list when the xauthorization file not found message came up.
    > the xauthorization message did NOT come up with some other functions i ran with sudo; like when I installed adobe's flash player.

- I've since upgraded (via iso cd) to xubuntu 6.06, and I've yet to see the message thus far (tried all the instances in which it occurred in 5.10 without incident)

---

### Post by ghandi69_ on 2007-03-01
Hmm...

I also have been running from a server install (server install.. then install xorg and gnome-core and all that.. so it doesn't come with all those programs.. and go from there.. maybe this problem is related to the fact we both did a server install??  I dont know..

I mainly use linux because its faster...prettier......and it has much more available free software to handle my homework needs (programming and such).

I still am finding it an eternal quest for it to handle entertainment though.  My Xauthorization issues started  while messing with Myth Tv..

I don't know if you messed with it.. but myth tv really seems a little outrageous...  I was just lookin for a lil program to watch tv with..and here you need to log out and log in and creates a new myth tv user for crying out loud.  I wasn't a full 5 seconds into the install process and I had broken everything.

Still enjoying my experience overall though.

---

