---
title: "100% CPU spikes when opening&amp;closing folders"
date: 2007-03-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-16
I am loving my Ubuntu (32bit desktop version) install but I have one problem.

When opening a folder, closing a folder, or minimizing my CPU ramps up to 100% and so because it is doing this it makes the whole operating system seem sluggish.  It sadly doesn't feel as zippy as MS Windows because of this bug.

Is this normal or should the CPU be a lot lower when opening and closing things?  Surely looking in a folder doesn't demand 100% CPU.  I have 2 gig of ram,nvidia 7900GS and a 64bit AMD processor so I am way above the minimum spec for ubuntu.  Surely everything should be super fast?

I am using beryl, so tried without it enabled using just GNOME metacity and I still get the CPU spikes.

Can anyone help me?

---

### Post by darrenm on 2007-03-16
Try disabling compositing in xorg.conf and see if that helps.

```
Section Extensions
Option "Composite" "Disable"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-16
OK, i'll have to try after work.

What does this actually do?  I'm not entirely sure what xorg does.

---

### Post by darrenm on 2007-03-16
Disables all the compositing stuff that Beryl / Compiz etc uses. You have to restart X after editing xorg.conf so just a simple reboot will do.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-16
> **darrenm said:**
> Disables all the compositing stuff that Beryl / Compiz etc uses. You have to restart X after editing xorg.conf so just a simple reboot will do.

will that effect beryl in a negative way?  

Can I just Ctrl+Alt+Backspace to restart X?

---

### Post by darrenm on 2007-03-16
Yes, Beryl won't be able to do all the fancy stuff. But at least it will tell you if thats whats causing it. Compositing causes lots of CPU blips for me too.

CTRL-ALT-Backspace will restart X but its not the best way to do it.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-16
I'm afraid that didn't solve it for me.

Here is a screen shot of me changing the size of a window for about a minute.  I just held the edge of the window and kept dragging it bigger, smaller, bigger, smaller.  My CPU goes to 100% for this task, surely something suspicious is going on!?

[IMG]http://i102.photobucket.com/albums/m107/timjbart/cpu.jpg[/IMG]

I have also notice 100% CPU when loading pages in Firefox, and switching tabs

---

### Post by rocketman768 on 2007-03-16
Bring up a terminal and type "top" and hit enter. Monitor this when you do something that causes cpu spikes and the program that is causing it will rise to the top of the list.

---

### Post by darrenm on 2007-03-16
I can make my CPU have to scale from 187MHz to 1.5GHz by tapping shift twice.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-17
> **darrenm said:**
> I can make my CPU have to scale from 187MHz to 1.5GHz by tapping shift twice.

I don't know what you mean.

When I look at 'top' in the terminal and start opening and closing things, it is **Xorg** that goes to the top.  Occasionally is it Nautilus. 

Are there any settings in xorg that need tweaking?

I'm in Windows now and things feel lightening fast compared to ubuntu, which is a shame :(  I'm sure ubuntu should be just as fast, if not faster!

---

### Post by farish on 2007-03-17
> **TimJBart said:**
> I don't know what you mean.

When I look at 'top' in the terminal and start opening and closing things, it is **Xorg** that goes to the top.  Occasionally is it Nautilus. 

Are there any settings in xorg that need tweaking?

I'm in Windows now and things feel lightening fast compared to ubuntu, which is a shame :(  I'm sure ubuntu should be just as fast, if not faster!


You could try to reconfigure xorg, just for the heck of it:

```
 sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

That will give you a shiny new xorg to start with.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-17
That hosed my xorg completely and it wouldn't start.  Had to copy back in the backup

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-17
How do I check that the nvidia driver is being used fully and properly?

Perhaps when windows load they are not being graphically accelerated so the CPU is taking too much load?

---

### Post by darrenm on 2007-03-17
Yep thats exactly it. Post your xorg.conf.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-17
I appreciate you trying to help me.  My xorg has been automatically configured using the latest version of Envy.

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Mon Feb 26 23:38:46 PST 2007

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "i2c"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "gb"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ButtonMapping" "1 2 3 6 7"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "20WGX2"
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Driver         "nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    Monitor        "20WGX2"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1680x1050" "1440x1440" "1400x1050" "1280x1024" "1280x960" "1280x800" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection


```

---

### Post by darrenm on 2007-03-19
I would have thought ```
Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
``` should be in the device section.

---

### Post by larrybrazos on 2007-03-20
i am having this same exact problem.  

i actually had two problems, first my partition was 98% full, so i cleaned that out and thought all would be fine, but apparently i had two types of lag.  cleaning the parition helped but i was also experiencing this cpu spike when windows are opened and closed.  

i have installed made many late night, hasty, suspicious command entries while trying to get beryl to work, so i will check there and if i find something, i'll let you know how i resolved.

---

### Post by larrybrazos on 2007-03-20
btw, i also jumped back in to windows and it felt blazing fast, and i was like "nooooooooooooooooooooo, the windows demons are trying to tempt me!!!!!!!"

i must resist and find a solution!

---

### Post by PartickThistle on 2007-03-20
I had this issue, too.  It's Gnome related for sure.  I didn't have time to debug it so a clean install was done - this made things at least 5 times as fast.  

I've now installed everything I had previously and things are still flying along.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-20
> **PartickThistle said:**
> I had this issue, too.  It's Gnome related for sure.  I didn't have time to debug it so a clean install was done - this made things at least 5 times as fast.  

I've now installed everything I had previously and things are still flying along.

nooooooo, don't tell me that!!!  A clean install!?!? Feels like it took me so much time to get things the way I want!](*,)   





I am tempted though :lolflag:


I have installed and uninstalled loads of things, and played with the command line when I don't really know what I'm doing!  I have an idea, I'll see how fast the Live CD runs when opening a window.  Anything that doesn't spin the CD should be in RAM and fly like Windows does :(

---

### Post by larrybrazos on 2007-03-20
same goes here, would like to avoid the reinstall and learn how to recover from something like this . . .

start with a beryl uninstall?
go back to default xorg.conf?
etc.etc.?

any thoughts?

---

### Post by larrybrazos on 2007-03-20
nm, i'll find this out on my own . . .

starting here . . .

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=353813](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=353813)

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-20
my xorg.conf is optimized by the nvidia install script ENVY so I really don't know what it did to optimise it.  To me, it really doesn't look like there's that much to be set up in the xorg.conf, but I'm probably wrong.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-03-20
this was interesting.

When I load up the live CD, then open the 'Examples' folder I get the same 100% CPU.

Then when I resize the window up and down it is sluggish and the CPU maxes out again.  I just don't think Gnome likes my PC for some reason.   Might try kubuntu or xubuntu live cds and see if the same thing occurs. 

Is it anything to do with power management?  Has Ubuntu lowered the frequency of my CPU so it is only a fraction of the power? :(

---

### Post by vinlai on 2007-04-03
I had a similar problem after upgrading to Feisty, solved after upgrading my xorg to 7.2. If you are using Edgy, it might worth trying to upgrade to xorg 7.2 following the guide on [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=373087").

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-04-04
> **vinlai said:**
> I had a similar problem after upgrading to Feisty, solved after upgrading my xorg to 7.2. If you are using Edgy, it might worth trying to upgrade to xorg 7.2 following the guide on [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=373087").

Ok that is an interesting suggestion.

Is xorg not included in Feisty then?  I was thinking about just leaving my PC and hoping that Feisty would fix it when it is released.

How do I check the version of xorg I am currently running?

---

### Post by darrenm on 2007-04-04
Xorg 7.2 is default now in Feisty

```
 Xorg -version
```

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-04-04
> **darrenm said:**
> Xorg 7.2 is default now in Feisty

```
 Xorg -version
```

Great.  I'll just wait for it to be released then.  Thanks

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-04-20
> **TimJBart said:**
> Great.  I'll just wait for it to be released then.  Thanks

...and now I have upgraded to Feisty and I still have the same problem.  Re-sizing a window makes the cpu go to 100% and be quite unresponsive, and opening a folder can spike it to CPU.

Switching a tab in firefox is also sluggish.

I'm convinced the problem is Xorg, but I'm not sure how to stop it.  Is Nautilus the same thing as xorg?:confused:

---

### Post by walmartshopper67 on 2007-04-24
I've got this problem too - i'm working on it. It's really, really pissing me off. Running open office hits my CPU at 100%. ugh. 

(no, Nautilus isn't the same as xorg, nautilus is just a program running ontop of xorg. Thats why this is such a pain - everything graphical runs ontop of xorg, so if xorg is slow so is everything else.)

---

### Post by Smuve on 2007-04-24
I had a similar problem a while ago and fixed it with a couple of things.

One thing you might try - make sure you don't have fbdev enabled in the upper load module section of xorg.  I'm not sure how I got it in there, but it shouldn't be.

Also, if you have TripleBuffer enabled, change it to "false"

Finally, I would highly recommend that you remove all things envy and nvidia related, then reinstall the nvidia drivers from one of the guides on this forum.   (This rewrites xorg, so ignore above if you do this first).

Ultimately, this is what fixed everything for me.

---

### Post by larrybrazos on 2007-04-24
> **Smuve said:**
> I had a similar problem a while ago and fixed it with a couple of things.

One thing you might try - make sure you don't have fbdev enabled in the upper load module section of xorg.  I'm not sure how I got it in there, but it shouldn't be.

Also, if you have TripleBuffer enabled, change it to "false"

Finally, I would highly recommend that you remove all things envy and nvidia related, then reinstall the nvidia drivers from one of the guides on this forum.   (This rewrites xorg, so ignore above if you do this first).

Ultimately, this is what fixed everything for me.
thanks smuve, i'll try that.

---

### Post by super.rad on 2007-05-10
im having exactly the same problem, i've got an ati card though. Doing pretty much anything spikes my cpu to 100%, tempted to do a clean install but would rather not as my home folder is on the same partition.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-05-10
> **super.rad said:**
> im having exactly the same problem, i've got an ati card though. Doing pretty much anything spikes my cpu to 100%, tempted to do a clean install but would rather not as my home folder is on the same partition.

I have done numerous clean installs and the problem has not been fixed.  It is to do with the way things are set up to begin with, so a clean install won't help that.  You would be better trying to edit certain things suggested in this thread to see if it helps at all.

---

### Post by super.rad on 2007-05-10
tried most the suggestions here and nothing has worked so far

---

### Post by super.rad on 2007-05-10
i looked in the system log viewer and im getting 3 messages repeated in kern.log, messages and syslog. the messages are
Kern.log
> May  4 20:25:52 jimin-ubuntu kernel: [  724.016000] hdd: dma_intr: bad DMA status (dma_stat=76)
May  4 20:25:52 jimin-ubuntu kernel: [  724.016000] hdd: dma_intr: status=0x50 { DriveReady SeekComplete }
May  4 20:25:52 jimin-ubuntu kernel: [  724.016000] ide: failed opcode was: unknown

Messages
> May  4 20:27:02 jimin-ubuntu kernel: [  794.000000] hdd: dma_intr: status=0x50 { DriveReady SeekComplete }
May  4 20:27:02 jimin-ubuntu kernel: [  794.000000] ide: failed opcode was: unknown


syslog
> May  4 20:27:52 jimin-ubuntu kernel: [  843.972000] hdd: dma_intr: bad DMA status (dma_stat=76)
May  4 20:27:52 jimin-ubuntu kernel: [  843.972000] hdd: dma_intr: status=0x50 { DriveReady SeekComplete }
May  4 20:27:52 jimin-ubuntu kernel: [  843.972000] ide: failed opcode was: unknown


anyone got any idea what these mean or how to solve them? also could this be whats slowing down my system?

---

### Post by super.rad on 2007-07-03
Bump, i've upgraded to ubuntu studio since but still getting the same errors and its still running as slow

---

### Post by FuturePilot on 2007-07-03
Hmmm. Just noticed this too. It doesn't spike up to 100%, more like 50%-70% but it still seems high for opening a folder.

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-07-04
I've gone back to windows on one of my PCs as the lag spikes were upsetting me! :(

---

### Post by TimJBart on 2007-08-21
I've just had a thought that I have never tried.

Cool N Quiet?

I have been having problems with it making things stuttering in windows, so could this be the case for ubuntu?

It seems to be on by default and I can't find anywhere in the BIOS to turn it off, how do I turn it off in ubunutu?  Thanks

---

### Post by zigx on 2007-08-21
Would it be possible for you to just reinstall it?

I had this problem in the past, and i THINK there was a bug on launchpad already... but anyways, my hardware has not changed at all, and i did a reinstall months ago which fixed it.

---

### Post by doublearon on 2007-08-31
You can disable Cool n' Quiet from starting up in the services dialogue ... i think it's in the administration menu but I'm not in front of my Ubuntu box.

---

