---
title: "9.04: Firefox, Epiphany, Opera - all freeze on 'save image'"
date: 2009-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by repran on 2009-05-02
I recently upgraded to Ubuntu 9.04 and after working with the new system without having issues suddenly firefox started to freeze for 10 seconds each time I tried to save an image to my HD.

Nothing helped so I tried Epiphany as well as Opera with teh exact same result.

Any suggestions?

Thanks,

Stefan

---

### Post by TADsince1995 on 2009-05-03
> **repran said:**
> I recently upgraded to Ubuntu 9.04 and after working with the new system without having issues suddenly firefox started to freeze for 10 seconds each time I tried to save an image to my HD.

Nothing helped so I tried Epiphany as well as Opera with teh exact same result.

Any suggestions?

Thanks,

Stefan

I've exactly the same problem. And it's not relating to Firefox/opera, it's a general issue, I experienced the same on OpenOffice...

---

### Post by m3o on 2009-05-04
> **TADsince1995 said:**
> I've exactly the same problem. And it's not relating to Firefox/opera, it's a general issue, I experienced the same on OpenOffice...

I have experienced the same issue normally while I have running open office and firefox only.  The computer just freezes, no keyboard or mouse and no HDD activity.  I think it might be a problem with open office, but still speculating at this stage.  So far I have had it happen about six times.

Any suggestions?

---

### Post by m3o on 2009-05-14
I think I may have found the solution to my problem.  It was definitely Firefox that was causing the issue, but only when I visited some pages.  I can't find the original article that I read to reference, but all I did was:

1. Delete the .firefox directory in your home directory
2. Using Synaptic remove firefox and flash player (search using firefox and flash)
3. Install Flash and Firefox

When I went to this site [http://tozzymodif.wordpress.com/](http://tozzymodif.wordpress.com/) everything would lock up.  Now it doesn't!

Cheers

---

