---
title: "Unmet Dependency Problem in 12.04 - libefl"
date: 2013-03-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bonesTdog on 2013-03-30
Hi all,
I do not know what caused this, but I seem to have a dependency problem and have no idea how to repair it. I thought I would give it a shot here in the forums to see if anyone can help so I can learn about how to research and fix this type of issue. Otherwise, I guess I can always simply re-install.

The message I am getting on my system tray says error: broken count >0 (typically caused by unmet dependencies). When I run Synaptic and try to fix the problem I get the following error:

(Reading database ... 270247 files and directories currently installed.) 
Preparing to replace libefl-bin 201212281219-551~precise1 (using .../libefl-bin_201303152313-21474~precise1_amd64.deb) ... 
Unpacking replacement libefl-bin ... 
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/libefl-bin_201303152313-21474~precise1_amd64.deb (--unpack): 
 trying to overwrite '/usr/share/edje/include/edje.inc', which is also in package libedje-bin 201303011150-2876~precise1 
dpkg-deb: error: subprocess paste was killed by signal (Broken pipe) 
No apport report written because MaxReports is reached already
Processing triggers for shared-mime-info ... 
Errors were encountered while processing: 
 /var/cache/apt/archives/libefl-bin_201303152313-21474~precise1_amd64.deb 

apt-get upgrade returns this error:
You might want to run 'apt-get -f install' to correct these.
The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 libefl-bin : Depends: libefl (= 201212281219-551~precise1) but 201303272155-21600~precise1 is installed
E: Unmet dependencies. Try using -f.

I could not get -f to resolve the issue but it makes me think there may be an easy solution?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-30
bonesTdog; Hi !

Did you run this terminal code:
```
sudo apt-get -f install
```

If errors still; Post the output of terminal codes:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
``` The errors generated by the package manager will indicate where to go next.[INDENT=3]
just try'n to help

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by bonesTdog on 2013-03-31
Yep,
apt-get update does not return any errors.
apt-get upgrade errors are posted above in the original post.

I also tried apt-get -f install and get the following error:
Preparing to replace libefl-bin 201212281219-551~precise1 (using .../libefl-bin_201303272155-21600~precise1_amd64.deb) ...
Unpacking replacement libefl-bin ...
dpkg: error processing /var/cache/apt/archives/libefl-bin_201303272155-21600~precise1_amd64.deb (--unpack):
 trying to overwrite '/usr/share/edje/include/edje.inc', which is also in package libedje-bin 201303011150-2876~precise1
dpkg-deb: error: subprocess paste was killed by signal (Broken pipe)
Errors were encountered while processing:
 /var/cache/apt/archives/libefl-bin_201303272155-21600~precise1_amd64.deb
E: Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)


It looks like the errors all point to my libefel somehow being an incorrect version but I have no idea how to fix the issue.

Happy Easter by the way...

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-31
bonesTdog;

Take this approach:
apt-get clean command clears out the local repository of retrieved package files. It removes everything but the lock file from /var/cache/apt/archives/ and /var/cache/apt/archives/partial/. When APT is used as a dselect method, clean is run automatically. Those who do not use dselect will likely want to run apt-get clean from time to time to free up disk space.

To clear the cache(s) from the command line, terminal commands:
```
sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get autoremove

```
Now see if the package manager is happy:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

Is the data base restored ?[INDENT=3]
try'n to help

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by bonesTdog on 2013-03-31
clean does not give any errors.
autoclean and autoremove both kick out the same error as above with the same file.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-03-31
bonesTdog; 
I am reluctant to take drastic measures with a library file, so I suggest that we go back to the package management's tools and see if the package manager will fix the problem:
```

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get -f install
sudo apt-get --fix-missing install
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

"dist-upgrade" will use it's smart mode and see what it can do.[INDENT]
I hope this works

[/INDENT]

---

### Post by Ctrl-C on 2013-04-09
> **Bashing-om said:**
> bonesTdog; 
I am reluctant to take drastic measures with a library file, so I suggest that we go back to the package management's tools and see if the package manager will fix the problem:
```

sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get -f install
sudo apt-get --fix-missing install
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
```

"dist-upgrade" will use it's smart mode and see what it can do.[INDENT]
I hope this works

[/INDENT]


I'm having the same issue. Nothing works...

Any advice would help.

Joe

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2013-04-09
@ Ctrl-C; Hi ! Welcome to the forum.

In order to give specific assistance, show us the errors you are getting.
Post the output of terminal codes:
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
```

We will see where to go from there.

---

