---
title: "10.04 nautilus very slow when logging in"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wincen on 2010-05-08
I just installed 10.04 and it seems great except for one thing.  When I login to my account it takes nautilus quite a long time to load up.  Because of that my desktop takes quite a while before showing up.

I have gnome-do installed and that loads up lightning quick.  It seems to just be nautilus... or perhaps something with the gnome-desktop.  Any ideas what the problem is and how to fix i?

--------------------------------------------------------
Sloved in post #3: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9263879&postcount=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9263879&postcount=3)

---

### Post by _0R10N on 2010-05-08
The time for gnome to startup completely will depend, among other things, on the applications you have installed (like Compiz, Cairo, Emerald, and other services). Also the underlaying hardware will decrease/increase performance as well.

I'm not a Xorg expert at all, but if there's a X11 problem when logging in your Gnome session, then it has to be in your /var/log/Xorg.0.log log file. Please post the output of that file, it might be helpful for some gnome expert :p

I can recommend you to check the applications selected as startup applications...

Kind regards!

---

### Post by bumanie on 2010-05-08
I have had this problem since alpha 3. I know one work-around is disabling floppy drive in bios if your computer does not have a floppy drive physically installed. In my case, I have had my floppy drive disabled since 9.10 - so that is not what is causing my problem. Hope this works for you - from login to desktop takes 27 seconds on my computer. Maybe you should add to the bug report on launchpad if disabling fdd in bios does not help. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-session/+bug/534040](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-session/+bug/534040)

---

### Post by wincen on 2010-05-09
Thank you bumanie!  The workaround to disable a floppy drive stopped the problem.

I saw that ubuntu has marked this as a low priority bug.  That's kind of disappointing because it means the user's experience is a low priority.

---

