---
title: "16.04 LTE Unusably slow, good computer, fresh install."
date: 2016-12-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pingupenguin on 2016-12-15
Hi, (this is my first post) I have a problem with ubuntu being unusably slow. everything works, but it takes about 4 seconds to open a terminal window and 5 seconds to open firefox.
I am dual booting with windows 10, and win10 works just fine. I'm also seeing some really weird behavior from the cpu in the gnome system monitor, maxing out one core one second, then another the next. (i would provide a screenshot, but I don't know how to make a picture URL)
Specs:
(custom made)
CPU: intel i7-6700k
Motherboard:Gigabyte Z170XP-SLI
GPU:EVGA GTX 1070
16 gb ddr4 ram
Please help and maybe tell me how to upload a screenshot!

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-15
Welcome to the forums, pingupenguin

No need to upload a picture. I believe that we can make out what you mean. You can run a program called *top* in a terminal session that will tell you more than what gnome system monitor will:```
top -i
```Pay particular attention to the "%CPU" column and let us know which process(es) is(are) eating your CPU cycles. The process name will be under the "Command" column. Mine looks like the following:```
 PID USER      PR  NI    VIRT    RES    SHR S  %CPU %MEM     TIME+ COMMAND
1551 root      20   0  693792 184128 134524 S   5.9  0.3  16:58.39 Xorg
2425 duckhook  20   0 1668992 178436  74712 S   5.9  0.3   6:01.76 compiz
2909 duckhook  20   0 2172388 886204 166524 S   5.9  1.3  47:16.89 firefox
&#8230;
```
If you want to slow down top's refresh rate long enough to be able to highlight with your mouse and copy, then:```
top -i -d 10
```&#8230;which will give you 10 seconds between refreshes. Best to wait for three or four refreshes before highlighting and copying. Please post your output back to this thread between [noparse]```
 and 
```[/noparse] tags for clarity. Or highlight the output and use the [img]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/editor/code.gif[/img] button in the *Adv Reply* toolbar.

EDIT

&#8230;on further thought, there is no need to copy and post. You can just tell us what processes and what the CPU% is. Anything more than 10% should be looked into.

---

### Post by pingupenguin on 2016-12-16
When I run top, the 2 important things i see are Xorg and compiz and at times, xorg starts going up to 99% and back down to 40..i think thats what's causing the different cores to max out. how do I make it use all the cores?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-16
xorg should not be using anything close to 99% of any combination of CPU. More like 5-10%. Please post results of:```
sudo lspci -vk | grep -iA20 vga
``````
glxinfo | grep "renderer string"
``````
cat /etc/default/grub
```...please post your output between [noparse]```
 and 
```[/noparse] tags for clarity. Or highlight the output and use the [img]http://ubuntuforums.org/images/editor/code.gif[/img] button in the *Adv Reply* toolbar. Linux is very persnickety about syntax and case. Best to copy/paste my commands into a terminal.

Also, enumerate all of the things you've done to your system since initial install&#8213;all things that depart from the default configuration. Did you install (or try to install): proprietary drivers? Compiz config? Unity tweak?

---

### Post by pingupenguin on 2016-12-17
first command:
```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation Device 1b81 (rev a1) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
    Subsystem: eVga.com. Corp. Device 6173
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 16
    Memory at de000000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16M]
    Memory at c0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=256M]
    Memory at d0000000 (64-bit, prefetchable) [size=32M]
    I/O ports at e000 [size=128]
    Expansion ROM at df000000 [disabled] [size=512K]
    Capabilities: [60] Power Management version 3
    Capabilities: [68] MSI: Enable- Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [78] Express Legacy Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [100] Virtual Channel
    Capabilities: [250] Latency Tolerance Reporting
    Capabilities: [128] Power Budgeting <?>
    Capabilities: [420] Advanced Error Reporting
    Capabilities: [600] Vendor Specific Information: ID=0001 Rev=1 Len=024 <?>
    Capabilities: [900] #19
    Kernel modules: nvidiafb, nouveau

01:00.1 Audio device: NVIDIA Corporation Device 10f0 (rev a1)
    Subsystem: eVga.com. Corp. Device 6173
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 17
    Memory at df080000 (32-bit, non-prefetchable) [size=16K]
    Capabilities: [60] Power Management version 3
    Capabilities: [68] MSI: Enable- Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [78] Express Endpoint, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [100] Advanced Error Reporting
    Kernel driver in use: snd_hda_intel
    Kernel modules: snd_hda_intel

03:00.0 PCI bridge: ASMedia Technology Inc. ASM1083/1085 PCIe to PCI Bridge (rev 04) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
    Flags: bus master, fast devsel, latency 0, IRQ 14
    Bus: primary=03, secondary=04, subordinate=04, sec-latency=32
    Capabilities: [50] MSI: Enable- Count=1/1 Maskable- 64bit+
    Capabilities: [78] Power Management version 3
    Capabilities: [80] Express PCI-Express to PCI/PCI-X Bridge, MSI 00
    Capabilities: [c0] Subsystem: Device 0000:0000
    Capabilities: [100] Virtual Channel
    Kernel modules: shpchp

05:00.0 USB controller: ASMedia Technology Inc. ASM1142 USB 3.1 Host Controller (prog-if 30 [XHCI])
```
Second command:
```
OpenGL renderer string: Gallium 0.4 on llvmpipe (LLVM 3.8, 256 bits)
```
Third command:
```
# If you change this file, run 'update-grub' afterwards to update
# /boot/grub/grub.cfg.
# For full documentation of the options in this file, see:
#   info -f grub -n 'Simple configuration'

GRUB_DEFAULT=0
#GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT=0
GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT_QUIET=true
GRUB_TIMEOUT=10
GRUB_DISTRIBUTOR=`lsb_release -i -s 2> /dev/null || echo Debian`
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=""

# Uncomment to enable BadRAM filtering, modify to suit your needs
# This works with Linux (no patch required) and with any kernel that obtains
# the memory map information from GRUB (GNU Mach, kernel of FreeBSD ...)
#GRUB_BADRAM="0x01234567,0xfefefefe,0x89abcdef,0xefefefef"

# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
#GRUB_TERMINAL=console

# The resolution used on graphical terminal
# note that you can use only modes which your graphic card supports via VBE
# you can see them in real GRUB with the command `vbeinfo'
#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

# Uncomment if you don't want GRUB to pass "root=UUID=xxx" parameter to Linux
#GRUB_DISABLE_LINUX_UUID=true

# Uncomment to disable generation of recovery mode menu entries
#GRUB_DISABLE_RECOVERY="true"

# Uncomment to get a beep at grub start
#GRUB_INIT_TUNE="480 440 1"
```
(not sure if i posted too much)
The problem started immediately after the first restart and the installation worked just fine. (I installed some 3rd party things that were available in the install)
Also, the RAM usage is normal.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-18
Lets proceed from milder medicine and go to stronger stuff only if necessary. The reason for this gradualist approach is that strong medicine also has more tendency to break systems. What follows is an overview of mildest to strongest steps. It's only meant to give you a sense of what to expect, so please don't implement them simultaneously. In all cases, make sure you have proper readable backups of your important data including Windows data. Also, have a Windows recovery disk available. Not a bad idea to have an Ubuntu LiveUSB stick around too. Make sure you actually boot with it to prove that it is bootable.

These precautions are necessary because we will be monkeying around with your video subsystem. Unfortunately, screwing that up will sometimes leave you with a non-working screen. It's a remote concern, but better to be prepared.

The following are measures in order of increasing severity:

[LIST=1]
[*]Run a LiveUSB of your current version/flavour, then *top* to see if a core is racing.
[*]Let's try turning off vsync for the current session with:```
export vblank_mode=0
```Do a *top* afterwards to see if performance has improved.
[*]The combo of xorg and compiz would indicate that compositing might be a culprit. Let's try fiddling with it. The easiest way to do so involves installing compiz configuration manager:```
sudo apt update && sudo apt install compizconfig-settings-manager
```Be careful now. This is a power-tool and can bork your desktop if mishandled. If step 2 above is unsuccessful, we have to try turning off vsync here at General&#8594;OpenGL&#8594;"Sync To VBlank". Turn this button off.
[*]If that doesn't work, turn vsync back on but turn off compositing.
[*]If that doesn't work, install a proprietary driver.
[*]If the act of replacing nouveau with nvidia doesn't work, then we will have to fiddle with catalyst. Be forewarned that I am out of my depth if it comes to that. I haven't fiddled with NVidia's proprietary drivers or interfaces in years. Someone else would have to step in at that point.
[/LIST]
Start with step 1. If that doesn't work, proceed to step 2, then step 3. If step 3 doesn't work, stop there and post back to this thread for further instructions on disabling compiz.

---

### Post by pingupenguin on 2016-12-18
WHOA. After i restarted this morning to check how it was running, it started running normally (cpu cores mostly idle). this was my 3rd or 4th restart and i did _nothing_ before i restarted except running terminal and firefox, of couse.
Do you have any ideas what could have caused this?
(P.S thanks for trying to help)
Merry Christmas!

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-12-18
> **pingupenguin said:**
> WHOA. After i restarted this morning to check how it was running, it started running normally (cpu cores mostly idle). this was my 3rd or 4th restart and i did _nothing_ before i restarted except running terminal and firefox, of couse.
An early Christmas present from Santa? :lolflag:

Sometimes, the Linux deities work in mysterious ways.
> Do you have any ideas what could have caused this?

My guesses were already enumerated in previous posts: *vsync*, *compiz*, then *nouveau*. But I've been on these forums long enough to know that it could be anything, from a kernel regression to a totally unrelated piece of HW. Have you unplugged anything between boots? Even something as innocuous as a USB hub? Did you install any system updates? I gather that you haven't but that's always where to start diagnosing.

If you still want to chase down the issue for curiosity's or knowledge's sake, then a good place to start looking is the logs. Especially the old logs covering the times in which the event was happening. If things are now peachy, *dmesg* likely won't show much, but you can still look at old *syslog*s and *kern.log*s. Ubuntu comes with a nice GUI log viewer that the dash calls "System Log" but is actually *gnome-system-log*. Command line jockeys would likely eschew the GUI for a combination of *zcat*, *zgrep*, etc but not recommended for new users. You will probably need to use the "settings" gear icon in upper right corner to open the appropriate files. logs are all located in /var/log/

Be warned that parsing log files can be a painstaking and monotonous endeavour without searching and filtering tools, hence why power users will use *zgrep*, etc, but&#8213;purely my personal opinion&#8213;you also end up learning a lot about the guts of the OS (if that's your cup of tea).

It's probably a good idea to look at *dmesg* even now. It is possible that the root cause is still there, but your OS has learned to recover gracefully and/or work around it.

---

