---
title: "(8.10) Freezes, Firefox Font change after upgrade and weird visuals"
date: 2009-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ksennin on 2009-02-06
I changed drives and installed 8.10 from scratch last night, but  after the 245 upgrades that came up immediately, and adding my usual bunch of applications (deluge, vlc, wine, firestarter, etc), the fonts inside the Firefox window became noticeably smaller.  More flattened down, too, actually making things as simple as my gmail page harder to read (my eyesight isn't what it once was).  I checked the desktop settings and the font sizes and types remained the same as before.

Also, I saw strange visual icon distortions when running in wine rapget, a manager for my rapidshare account.  The icons of paused, completed, or on-going downloads looked  corrupted, like crumbled, something I had never seen before.  Then, as I was thinking about what to do, the mouse became jerky, and finally the system froze.  I had to do a hard reboot, but experienced another system freeze soon after.  And again, afterwards.

I reinstalled the whole thing again, checked that fonts looked normal, but after the 245 upgrades, it again became flattened. No freezes yet, but the icons continue to look crumbled.

Now, I had run 8.10 on another hard drive on this very machine, and saw no troubles.  I then went back to 8.04 for a short while, and no troubles, either.  It seems it may be something in a recent upgrade specific to 8.10.

Anyone else had this problem?

---

### Post by ksennin on 2009-02-06
Well, had another  freeze just after I posted.

Also, as I restarted firefox, the fonts in the ubuntu forum page were 50 per cent larger now for no discernible reason, something not happening in other re-opened tabs.

---

### Post by ksennin on 2009-02-07
Well, it seems the upgrades were not the culprit, but rather the install in general, where my running rapget in wine is what crashes the system.

I had been running rapget for a year without troubles before.  I originally had 7.10, installed in a second drive, which I later migrated (without a full install) to 8.04.  In both I could run the program in wine.  Then I changed over to have 8.10 installed in the first drive instead, sharing with a winxp install, and using separate partitions for swap, /, and home.  Rapget never displayed correctly here. 
  Testing, I did a full install of 8.04, and it had trouble recognizing my integrated VIA video, unlike 7.10 (I think a generic driver was used as effects were disabled) and asked me to do a manual configuration, to which I balked. 
  I just tested the 7.10 live cd and it ran the app in wine perfectly.
  Perhaps new installs of 8.04 and 8.10 use a different video card configuration method or driver set than 7.10?  Probably the migration to 8.04 on top of 7.10 retained the needed video configurations for the app to continue working, but the full new install does not?

  I am wondering about going back and doing a full reinstall of 7.10, and upgrading it to 8.04, then 8.10.  When moving from 7.10 to 8.04 I lost access to my pixma cannon scanner, which was my main motivation to do a new install of the new release. I dont know if it will happen again.
  Can you upgrade directly from 7.10 to 9.10 online?

---

### Post by nelodvn on 2009-04-08
I am facing the same problem, started yesterday after firefox update.

---

