---
title: "8.10 Setting preliminary Keymap"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Stephen_at on 2008-11-04
I've just upgraded my Toshiba SA30 laptop to 8.10 and it hangs on the boot with the latest kernel.

If I press Esc on boot and go into the menu and select the second option it runs through everything fine until it reaches:

Setting preliminary Keymap

where it hangs without ever returning the [OK] part.

If I boot off the earlier kernels then everything is fine.

So does anyone have a fix for this?

If not, how do I raise it as a bug?

---

### Post by Stephen_at on 2008-11-06
So do I assume that no-one else is getting this problem? Its pretty fundamental if I can't boot off the new kernel.

So how do I edit the boot menu to take the latest kernel off the boot list?

---

### Post by stanley drew on 2008-11-18
I'm having the same problem, among other hanging issues with my boot process. I'm looking for a solution.

But if you want to edit your boot list of kernels you need to change /boot/grub/menu.lst.

---

### Post by regularfry on 2009-01-27
Just thought I'd chip in: I've got exactly the same problem, on the same laptop (Toshiba SA30). It's not strictly a freeze, though, it just takes *ages* to get to the next step (5 minutes or so; I didn't time it), which is "Preparing restricted drivers" for me. I'll have a dig through dmesg to see if there's anything obviously wrong.

---

### Post by sylvaticus on 2009-11-02
Same laptop, same problem. I were unable to install 9.10.
Now my only option is booting 8.10 (old, not updated kernel) using "rescue system".

Is there a quick fix? Dis u try other "modern" distributions?

---

### Post by Stephen_at on 2009-11-09
9.04 is on there now and its pretty good apart from it not shutting the power off when I select shutdown!

Oh and I had to manual set the video display because defaulted to Generic and wouldn't let me go up to 1024*768

---

