---
title: "10.04 iphone usb tethering"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hazyred on 2010-05-05
I'm on a fresh install of ubuntu 10.04 and I'm having a bit of a difficulty getting the tethering to work via usb through my iphone. I had heard that 10.04 supports the functionality natively.

The iPhone is a 3GS with 3.1.3 fw.

What I tried is to enable the tethering via usb and then connect the phone to the laptop and hope that it works. That failed. So I tried the opposite way as well. That didn't work either. By "didn't work", I mean, not even the little blue bar at the top of the phone to indicate that it's currently tethering came on.

Opening Rhytmbox allows me to see the phones contents and browsing through it in nautilus gives me access to the pictures. So, it is being recognized. Also, the phone is not jailbroken.

Any ideas on what I could try tweaking around to get it to work? If 10.04 is supposed to support it natively, is there something I overlooked?

---

### Post by hazyred on 2010-05-06
Bump =)

any advise appreciated :)

---

### Post by razorbuzz on 2010-05-07
This would be great.  I had it working in Karmic, but something's FUBAR'd now.

---

### Post by hazyred on 2010-05-10
bump.

---

### Post by matre on 2010-05-17
I have the same issue and stumbled across these instructions.  I havent been able to try this yet and wont be able to for a few days but maybe it might help you...

[http://techie-buzz.com/linux-tips/getting-iphone-internet-tethering-working-in-linux.html]("http://techie-buzz.com/linux-tips/getting-iphone-internet-tethering-working-in-linux.html")

If this is right you need to install a iphone USB kernel driver to use tethering.

The libimobiledevice library page which is how Lucid does its iPhone stuff mentions it as well.
 [http://libimobiledevice.org/]("http://libimobiledevice.org/")

Cheers,

Matt

---

### Post by matre on 2010-05-18
Hi,

I got around to trying this out and it works!!!

[http://techie-buzz.com/linux-tips/getting-iphone-internet-tethering-working-in-linux.html]("http://techie-buzz.com/linux-tips/getting-iphone-internet-tethering-working-in-linux.html")

I already had git-core installed but there was a few extra things I needed before it would work.

1.  I installed kernel source
2. I installed libimobiledevice-dev and libimobiledevice-util (not sure if that made a difference).

Compiled ipheth-pair and installed, compiled the ipheth-driver and loaded the module... plugged in my iphone 3gs with tethering off, checked the dmesg ... good.  Turned on tethering and it worked!!! Looks good.

I have a 3gs with 3.1.3 and am not jailbroken.  

Hope that helps you,

Matt

---

### Post by Jakiejake on 2010-05-18
> **hazyred said:**
> Bump =)

any advise appreciated :)

What Does Bump Mean?
Is it spam?

---

### Post by angelsguitar on 2010-05-19
> **Jakiejake said:**
> What Does Bump Mean?
Is it spam?

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bump_%28Internet%29](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bump_%28Internet%29)

---

### Post by angelsguitar on 2010-05-19
This works great. However, how can I make this module load automatically at startup? (maybe using modprobe or a script at startup?)

---

### Post by Jakiejake on 2010-05-21
> **angelsguitar said:**
> [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bump_%28Internet%29](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bump_%28Internet%29)

Thanks!

---

### Post by angelsguitar on 2010-05-22
> **angelsguitar said:**
> This works great. However, how can I make this module load automatically at startup? (maybe using modprobe or a script at startup?)

Never mind, I got it solved.

For anyone interested, I found this wonderful repo by Paul McEnery which has a packaged version on ipheth for Lucid and Karmic.  Just add this repo, install and that's it. The installation will take care of the compilation and module insertion (using depmod and modprobe), and you don't have to reactivate the module manually everytime you reboot.

Hope this helps anybody with the same problem.

[https://launchpad.net/~pmcenery/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=lucid]("https://launchpad.net/~pmcenery/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=lucid")

---

### Post by Kirkland14 on 2010-05-26
[IMG]file:///tmp/moz-screenshot.png[/IMG]I cut and pasted all the way and got "error" instead of where it says "make". did I miss something.

Thanks

Kevin

---

### Post by Kirkland14 on 2010-05-26
Sorry.  Maybe I should include the whole code.

---

### Post by angelsguitar on 2010-05-26
> **Kirkland14 said:**
> Sorry.  Maybe I should include the whole code.

Try the repo; it's easier. Here's the link again:

[https://launchpad.net/~pmcenery/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=lucid]("https://launchpad.net/~pmcenery/+archive/ppa?field.series_filter=lucid")

---

### Post by Kirkland14 on 2010-05-26
So I'll apologize now.  I'm a complete noob at this,  When I tried to copy and paste the command, the terminal said it couldn't recognize the command deb.  I'm obviously doing something wrong, but what.  and when I say noob, i mean noob. thanks

Kevin

---

### Post by angelsguitar on 2010-05-27
> **Kirkland14 said:**
> So I'll apologize now.  I'm a complete noob at this,  When I tried to copy and paste the command, the terminal said it couldn't recognize the command deb.  I'm obviously doing something wrong, but what.  and when I say noob, i mean noob. thanks

Kevin

Oh, don't worry. Here's what you need to do, step by step. I assume you are using Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx:

-Disconnect your iphone from the computer, if it's connected.

-Open the terminal and write the following command:```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:pmcenery/ppa
``` Input your password when asked and press Enter. This will add the repository to your software sources.

-Now type and execute this one on the terminal too: ```
sudo apt-get update
``` This one will update the package list info from the software download sources, including the one you just added.

-Last, type and execute the following command to install the ipheth driver and dependencies: ```
sudo apt-get install libimobiledevice-dev libimobiledevice-utils ipheth-utils gvfs
```


You can connect your iphone now (with the tethering option activated) You should be able to tether your iphone. It should appear on the NetworkManager icon on top as "eth1" or something similar.

Hope this helps! :)

P.D. - If your iphone doesn't have an Internet Tethering option available under Settings - General - Network, visit this address with the browser on your iphone: [http://help.benm.at]("http://help.benm.at") Once there, follow the instructions to activate the tethering option.

---

### Post by Kirkland14 on 2010-05-27
So everything was working great until the last step and then I got this:

W: GPG error: [http://ppa.launchpad.net](http://ppa.launchpad.net) lucid Release: The following signatures couldn't be verified because the punot available: NO_PUBKEY 39456311108B243F
kevin@ubuntu:~$ sudo apt-get install libimobiledevice-dev libimobiledevice-util ipheth gvfs
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package libimobiledevice-util

I don't know how to make the code box yet or I would have inserted it in there.  Thanks for your help.

Kevin

---

### Post by angelsguitar on 2010-05-27
Ok, execute the following on the terminal:

```
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys D48B8E25
```

That should take care of the error message about the key.

Now, about the "couldn't find package..." error, it was my mistake; I made a typo (actually, a few ones!!!) on the last step. The correct instruction for the last step should be:

```
sudo apt-get install libimobiledevice-dev libimobiledevice-utils ipheth-utils gvfs
```

Try it again now and see if it works. I already corrected it on the other post too.

P.D. - To make the code box, use the "#" button on the toolbar above when writing the message.

---

### Post by Kirkland14 on 2010-05-27
P.D. - To make the code box, use the "#" button on the toolbar above  when writing the message.

i was just testing there.  I hope thats not frowned upon.  anyway  so the code this time worked and i went to:

[http://help.benm.at]("http://help.benm.at/")

with my iphone and went through the steps but I don't see it in my network settings.  there was a new app installed but doesn't take me anywhere:


thanks again

Kevin

ps  obviously i did the code box wrong

---

### Post by angelsguitar on 2010-05-28
> **Kirkland14 said:**
> P.D. - To make the code box, use the "#" button on the toolbar above  when writing the message.

i was just testing there.  I hope thats not frowned upon.  anyway  so the code this time worked and i went to:

[http://help.benm.at]("http://help.benm.at/")

with my iphone and went through the steps but I don't see it in my network settings.  there was a new app installed but doesn't take me anywhere:


thanks again

Kevin

ps  obviously i did the code box wrong

Here's a link to the page where I found the info about tethering on iphone. It may help you complete the setup:

[http://www.mydigitallife.info/2009/06/28/activate-and-enable-iphone-as-internet-tethering-wireless-modem-without-hack-or-jailbreak/]("http://www.mydigitallife.info/2009/06/28/activate-and-enable-iphone-as-internet-tethering-wireless-modem-without-hack-or-jailbreak/")

I don't actually have an iphone (I just helped a friend activate tethering with Ubuntu on his iphone a few days ago), so this is as far as I can go. I'm sorry I can't be of further help.

---

### Post by reuvenim on 2010-06-27
Just wanted to say, for the record, that angelsguitar's solution worked for me on my iOS4 iPhone 3Gs.
Thank you very much!

---

### Post by CTenorman on 2010-06-27
I know the original poster wanted to know about usb tethering, but I'd be remiss if I didn't mention how well bluetooth tethering works.

I used to tether with a cord as well, and then finally broke down and ordered a blue-tooth internal card for my dell 1720. Best $20 I ever spent. So long as I leave bluetooth on on the iPhone, I just click the network icon, click the funny address that represents my iphone's bluetooth connection, and a few seconds later I'm good to go. The iPhone doesn't even have to leave my pocket!

If you're looking to charge up an iphone while you're at it or take advantage of speeds greater than 2mbps then you may want to use usb. However, I can't tell you how useful and convenient the bluetooth option is.

If you don't have a place you can pop in a bluetooth adapter inside your computer, you can get a bluetooth usb stub that plugs into a usb port. The usb transmitter sticks out about half an inch beyond the port and you don't even notice it's there. And for about $30-40 you've got bluetooth on any machine.

Sorry if this is off-topic, but I had such a great experience switching I just thought I'd let you know.

All the best!

---

### Post by yorkshire bloke on 2010-07-01
I was successfully using Paul McEnery's repo with my (unjailbroken) iPhone on Ubuntu netbook remix. Then (after an advertised update) things went all wrong and my windows stopped working. Something to do with Metacity I think.

Anyway...
I wasn't clever enough to sort that out, so I just uninstalled Ubuntu completely (via Windows 7 - I'm using Wubi) and completely re-installed from scratch. I have decided to give Xubuntu a go, just cos it looks nice and clean and light.

However I can't get the McEnery tethering trick to work in Xubuntu.
I am NOT very computer-literate, but I thought that Ubuntu and Xubuntu were basically the same under the skin. Anyone know if there's a reason this repo should work with Ubuntu but not Xubuntu I realise Xubuntu is very much stripped down (I even had to install gedit separately) but I like the look and feel of it. Would love to be able to get my 3G connectivity working with it.

I'm rambling. Bottom line - can you get USB iPhone tethering to work in Xubuntu?

Ta!

---

### Post by tonycm1 on 2010-12-18
> **angelsguitar said:**
> Oh, don't worry. Here's what you need to do, step by step. I assume you are using Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid Lynx:

-Disconnect your iphone from the computer, if it's connected.

-Open the terminal and write the following command:```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:pmcenery/ppa
``` Input your password when asked and press Enter. This will add the repository to your software sources.

-Now type and execute this one on the terminal too: ```
sudo apt-get update
``` This one will update the package list info from the software download sources, including the one you just added.

-Last, type and execute the following command to install the ipheth driver and dependencies: ```
sudo apt-get install libimobiledevice-dev libimobiledevice-utils ipheth-utils gvfs
```

You can connect your iphone now (with the tethering option activated) You should be able to tether your iphone. It should appear on the NetworkManager icon on top as "eth1" or something similar.

Hope this helps! :)

P.D. - If your iphone doesn't have an Internet Tethering option available under Settings - General - Network, visit this address with the browser on your iphone: [http://help.benm.at]("http://help.benm.at") Once there, follow the instructions to activate the tethering option.


Worked Perfectly for me running 10.04 with Wubi on my iPhone 3G with 3.1.3! Thanks for the guide!!!

---

### Post by six648 on 2011-06-07
tonycm1
Thanks for your efforts and steps, they are very useful.

---

