---
title: "9.04 How to update the usb stick?"
date: 2010-01-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-01-19
I installed Ubuntu 9.04 on a usb 16 GiB pen. It runs very well, but I want to update it. When I try, I get the message saying,
> Not enough free disk space... needs a total of 537 MiB free space on disk...
Running GParted shows that 842 MiB being used and 14.1 GiB free.
This confuses me much.
Any explanation?

---

### Post by smcleish on 2010-01-19
I had a similar problem. I can remember what was happening, but not how I eventually sorted it. In my case, the updater was checking the space on the netbook I was attaching the pen to, which didn't have the free disk space. So the fix was basically a question of getting the updater to look in the right place to find the space.

Sorry not to be more helpful, but I hope I'm pointing you in the right direction!

---

### Post by C.S.Cameron on 2010-01-19
If you used unetbootin or usb-creator to install Ubuntu to your flash drive you are running off of a disk image that can not be easily modified.
Also the persistence file casper-rw is limited to 4GB by the FAT32 filesystem.
If you want to be able to update or upgrade you can do a full install to your pendrive.
The easiest method is to unplug or disable your internal hard drive plug in your pendrive and run "Install Ubuntu" from the Live CD or Live USB.
Probably good to run System/Administration/Computer Janitor after every update, even then.

Looking at the size of your used space I see that you have only allowed about 120MB for your persistence file. This is not enough space to do much updating anyway.

If you want more space for persistence on your current thumbdrive you can delete your casper-rw file, (while booted from a different drive), and make an ext2,3 or 4 partition labeled casper-rw of whatever size you want, (Under 14.1GB).

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2010-01-20
Thanks for the replies...

I finally realized that I was not allowing enough space. The default seems to be 128 MB. I stretched this out to 1 GB, and the update took.:)

---

