---
title: "10.10 Wireless"
date: 2010-12-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by VonBlood on 2010-12-29
[FONT=Tahoma][SIZE=2] [SIZE=2]Hey guys,[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]
 [/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]I know this question has peen posed thousands of  times already, but I'm at my wits end. I think I've seen pretty much  every post on this problem already and said what they told me to do, and  still it doesn't help.[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]
 [/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Anyway, my problem is this; I recently decided I  wanted to run Ubuntu on my new latop, which already has Windows 7 on it.  Everything works just fine, except it seems I can't connect to any  wireless connection, it's hard blocked. Now before you say 'sudo rfkill unblock all', this doesn't work. The LED on my laptop itself for WiFi is turned off too.
[/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]
 [/SIZE]
 [SIZE=2]Below are some things that may be of help;
The wireless card I use is an Atheron AR9285, with the (I believe to be currently installed) ath9k driver.
```

job@ubuntu:~$ sudo rfkill unblock all
job@ubuntu:~$ sudo rfkill list
0: hci0: Bluetooth
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
1: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: yes
job@ubuntu:~$ sudo lsmod | grep ath
ath9k                 109233  0 
mac80211              278350  1 ath9k
ath9k_common            3143  1 ath9k
ath9k_hw              310453  2 ath9k,ath9k_common
ath                    16663  2 ath9k,ath9k_hw
cfg80211              173500  3 ath9k,mac80211,ath
compat                  7685  3 ath9k,mac80211,cfg80211
led_class               3393  2 ath9k,compat

```If you guys need anything else from me, just tell me what to do :)
[/SIZE]```
gksudo gedit /var/lib/NetworkManager/NetworkManger.state

```gives me WirelessEnabled=false, I don't know how to change this.

It has been suggested that I just enable the wireless on my BIOS, and keep it enabled there all the time. I just don't know how :)
If anyone could help me with all this, you'd be my hero. Thanks!

 [/SIZE][/FONT]

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-12-29
What's the output of:

```
sudo lshw -C network
```

could you paste the results in your next post.

---

### Post by VonBlood on 2010-12-30
```

job@ubuntu:~$ sudo lshw -C network
  *-network [COLOR=Red]DISABLED[/COLOR]      
       description: Wireless interface
       product: AR9285 Wireless Network Adapter (PCI-Express)
       vendor: Atheros Communications Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:03:00.0
       logical name: wlan0
       version: 01
       serial: 48:5d:60:81:24:49
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ath9k driverversion=2.6.35-24-generic firmware=N/A latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11bgn
       resources: irq:17 memory:f1d00000-f1d0ffff
  *-network
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: AR8131 Gigabit Ethernet
       vendor: Atheros Communications
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:06:00.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: c0
       serial: 70:71:bc:c3:91:7b
       size: 100MB/s
       capacity: 1GB/s
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress vpd bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd 1000bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=atl1c driverversion=1.0.0.2-NAPI duplex=full firmware=N/A ip=192.168.1.33 latency=0 link=yes multicast=yes port=twisted pair speed=100MB/s
       resources: irq:49 memory:f1c00000-f1c3ffff ioport:b000(size=128)

```As you can see, wireless is DISABLED, I just do not know how to enable this.?
edit: Wait, does this say Firmware=N/A? Doesn't that mean I should (re)install the firmware? If I'm not mistaken it's something like ath.. Any thoughts?

---

### Post by pingu1 on 2010-12-30
sudo wlan0 up? :neutral:

---

### Post by VonBlood on 2010-12-30
> **pingu1 said:**
> sudo wlan0 up? :neutral:

Could you specify? Just typing 'sudo wlan0 up' in terminal gives me an error that command wlan0 does not exist. Sorry, I'm a noob.

---

### Post by VonBlood on 2010-12-31
> **VonBlood said:**
> Could you specify? Just typing 'sudo wlan0 up' in terminal gives me an error that command wlan0 does not exist. Sorry, I'm a noob.

BUMP
```
sudo iwconfig wlan0 up
``` gives me an error message that this is unable to get wlan0 up due to RFKILL.
```
sudo rfkill unblock wlan0
rfkill list
``` does not do anything, gives me the following list;
```
job@ubuntu:~$ sudo rfkill unblock all
job@ubuntu:~$ sudo rfkill list
0: hci0: Bluetooth
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: no
1: phy0: Wireless LAN
    Soft blocked: no
    Hard blocked: yes

```
Note that this doesn't say wlan0, but phy0. iwconfig phy0 up gives error message no such device.

---

### Post by VonBlood on 2011-01-01
Bump, anyone know how to fix this? It's kinda important for me to have WiFi if I'm gonna use Ubuntu.

---

### Post by gerowen on 2011-01-01
Atheros wireless cards are usually identified as "ath0" instead of "wlan0".  So try:
```
sudo ifconfig ath0 up
```

I know it's obvious, but if you right click the wireless icon in your notification area can you check the option for "Enable Wireless"?

I'm just kind of shooting in the dark though, I'm not an expert on this kind of thing.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-01-01
**network** [COLOR="Red"]DISABLED[/COLOR] and **Hard blocked:** [COLOR="Red"]yes[/COLOR] 
are messages I have only seen when the wireless switch is set to OFF.

What model is your laptop?

---

### Post by VonBlood on 2011-01-01
> **gerowen said:**
> Atheros wireless cards are usually identified as "ath0" instead of "wlan0".  So try:
```
sudo ifconfig ath0 up
```

I know it's obvious, but if you right click the wireless icon in your notification area can you check the option for "Enable Wireless"?

I'm just kind of shooting in the dark though, I'm not an expert on this kind of thing.

```
sudo ifconfig ath0 up
``` gives me error 'no such device'. Oh well. And no, the enable wireless option is grayed out, so I can't click it, probably because it's hard blocked?
> **tredegar said:**
> **network** [COLOR="Red"]DISABLED[/COLOR] and **Hard blocked:** [COLOR="Red"]yes[/COLOR] 
are messages I have only seen when the wireless switch is set to OFF.

What model is your laptop?

Well, the LED on my laptop itself for WiFi is off too, how do I turn this on?
And I have a BTO P-book 15P31 laptop, it's a small brand which I chose cause they're cheaper and have better support, no major brand. Maybe this makes it incompatible with Linux? Although the network card I use is pretty common...

---

### Post by axept on 2011-01-01
Try to use "phy0" instead of wlan0 or ath0..

```
Sudo ifconfig phy0 up
```

---

### Post by ruben_linux on 2011-01-01
i have a HP Pavilion DV6 2145es, and wifi Atheros AR9285 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter.
 i think is:

sudo ifconfig wlan0 up

because is my experience:p

---

### Post by VonBlood on 2011-01-01
> **axept said:**
> Try to use "phy0" instead of wlan0 or ath0..

```
Sudo ifconfig phy0 up
```

Error message; no such device. :(

> **ruben_linux said:**
> i have a HP Pavilion DV6 2145es, and wifi Atheros AR9285 802.11b/g/n WiFi Adapter.
 i think is:

sudo ifconfig wlan0 up

because is my experience:p

This tells me that this action is impossible due to rfkill... However, rfkill unblock all doesn't work either, as I said before. Really weird!

---

### Post by gerowen on 2011-01-01
I have a couple of questions.

1) Is your wireless toggled normally with a FN key?  Like FN+key to turn on/off wireless in Windows?  Or is it a switch that you can flip?
2) If it is a FN key combination, did you toggle the wireless off in Windows before installing Linux?  I have a Windows hard drive I keep around for testing purposes, and if I forget and FN+F9 to disable my touchpad, Linux will not work with the touchpad at all, it sees it but refuses to accept input from it.  I have to boot Windows, re-enable it with the FN+F9 and then Linux will detect it.  I'm not sure how this works, it may be something specific to the hardware that Linux developers haven't picked up on yet, but it appears that the hardware manufacturers provided for the ability to do a hardware block of input from devices, which is cool if Linux supports the method of turning it back on, like a toggle switch, but I have yet to see a Linux distro properly support manufacturers' FN keys.

---

### Post by MARP1961 on 2011-01-01
I had the same 'wireless disabled' problem every time I restarted my Compaq Presario CQ70 laptop. I followed numerous instructions and tips in the forums but could only connect by waiting for around one minute until all booting activities were completed then pressing the wi-fi toggle button next to the power button. Even though I had set everything to automatic connect, it still seemed to need this procedure repeated after every reboot. One day I had a freeze and had to perform a forced shutdown on the power button. When rebooted, the wi-fi connected automatically and has caused no problems since! I am none the wiser.

---

### Post by VonBlood on 2011-01-02
> **gerowen said:**
> I have a couple of questions.

1) Is your wireless toggled normally with a FN key?  Like FN+key to turn on/off wireless in Windows?  Or is it a switch that you can flip?
2) If it is a FN key combination, did you toggle the wireless off in Windows before installing Linux?  I have a Windows hard drive I keep around for testing purposes, and if I forget and FN+F9 to disable my touchpad, Linux will not work with the touchpad at all, it sees it but refuses to accept input from it.  I have to boot Windows, re-enable it with the FN+F9 and then Linux will detect it.  I'm not sure how this works, it may be something specific to the hardware that Linux developers haven't picked up on yet, but it appears that the hardware manufacturers provided for the ability to do a hardware block of input from devices, which is cool if Linux supports the method of turning it back on, like a toggle switch, but I have yet to see a Linux distro properly support manufacturers' FN keys.

YES! This actually worked! For some reason, flipping the switch on my keyboard doesn't work. However, pressing Fn+F2 does, it doesn't show me anything works but it does :)
Thanks a bunch, you made my day :)

---

### Post by WlaadDyaab on 2011-01-02
Hi

I posted this on another thread with a similar problem to yours:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10307308#post10307308](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10307308#post10307308)

The only thing that I haven't experienced (don't know about) was to re-install Ubuntu on a dual-boot

If you find out how to delete the Ubuntu partition (ONLY the Ubuntu partition and not the Windows 7 one) and replace it with the new Ubuntu 10.10 installation maybe the link I gave you might help

Because the problem I had (wireless connection working but after restarting Laptop it never worked) was solved after installing the Chromium web browser and deleting/not using the Firefox web browser (you'll understand after reading the link)...etc

I hope the solution works for you like it did for me :)

---

### Post by coldraven on 2011-01-02
Please mark as solved using the thread tools link on the upper right side of the page.
Glad to hear you are happy now!

---

