---
title: "11.10 blank password, now im stuck"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nick3501 on 2011-10-14
so under user accounts i set my password* blank*..in a vague attempt to stop the password prompt from annoying me after the upgrade. Well ive really done it, as now i can not actually set a password, because when i try to unlock the user it wants a password. Same goes for terminal with the sudo command, it wants a password...but my old password does not work as i set it blank. Now im in a pickle. I went into recovery mode and attempted "passwd user" and when i try to change password i get 'authentication token error' or something. GAH!  

what to do?!

---

### Post by nick3501 on 2011-10-14
oh, and i cant use update manager, either.  I need to set a password, but my password is blank, and it keeps asking for a password...its an infinite loop!

---

### Post by Atamisk on 2011-10-14
I seem to remember fixing this once by booting into recovery mode, which gives you a root shell. from there, you should be able to run the passwd command to set a new password for your normal account. 

idk if there's a gui way to do this =/

---

### Post by nick3501 on 2011-10-14
thats what i tried (passwd in root shell), but im getting a dumb "authentication token manipulation' error, and password remains unchanged.

---

### Post by Gerald Daily on 2011-10-16
I have the same problem.  What is the fix?

---

### Post by gephyrin on 2011-10-16
god!! I did the same thing and am completely stuck!! mousepad does not work and completely frozen.. please help soon!!!!

---

### Post by nick3501 on 2011-10-16
I have a love hate relationship with ubuntu. So my solution was to wipe the drive and re-install ubuntu. So i download the iso image, try to make a usb startup disk, gets to 99% and what do you know, i need a password to write the bootloader:mad: . FUUUUU. Now i go to my desktop machine, with xubuntu, try to use the startup disk creator in there and i get an immediate "installation failed" cant do it.  Had to boot an old copy of xp, use the windows usb disk tool, try to install it on my computer...BAM bad image I/O error. FUUUUUUUU!!!

get yet another image, do the checksum, write in windows, install it on my laptop, BAM wifi wont work..need to spend a half hour poking around trying to find the (un-specific) method to get the broad-com chipset to work. once that happens, i get prompted for a stupid password every time i resume from suspend, and master password every time i start firefox, and every 5 mins in firefox until I enter it.  Do you know how annoying this is for somebody who doesn't have my password? :lolflag:
i know everybody here is security conscious, but my biggest complaint is the redundant passwords for everything. it should be easily disabled.

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-10-16
> **nick3501 said:**
> so under user accounts i set my password* blank*..in a vague attempt to stop the password prompt from annoying me after the upgrade. Well ive really done it, as now i can not actually set a password, because when i try to unlock the user it wants a password. Same goes for terminal with the sudo command, it wants a password...but my old password does not work as i set it blank. Now im in a pickle. I went into recovery mode and attempted "passwd user" and when i try to change password i get 'authentication token error' or something. GAH!  

what to do?!
I think you are confusing the administrator (root) with the keyring password, you cant set a blank administrator password you can only do that for the keyring.

---

### Post by goodyboody on 2011-10-16
OMG I did the same exact thing..
Left the password blank for user name and key ring.
Yes we can leave the password blank in 11.10.
and now i cannot access software centre or install via terminal.
its asks for user password for approval. Since the password is blank we cant leave it blank and old password doesnt work.
Also we cant change via root shell in recovery mode it gives error .
Help plz...
We cannot also reset password through user account...same trouble

---

### Post by nick3501 on 2011-10-16
sounds like a legit bug...it pretty much tanks your computer because you can not do any admin tasks (update, install restricted drivers, even access wifi if you are prompted for a root password as i was)  

is there a file within ubuntu that can be edited VIA live cd or usb linux, to set a password?  Or is it more complicated than that?

---

### Post by John451 on 2011-10-16
Just done the same thing but at least I'm not the Lone Ranger.

Seems like you cannot set a new password because the old password is off but to set the new password you need to fill in the old password field. While I can still l boot into the User Admin to browse etc does any easy way to set the Admin Password again without populating the old PWD field ?

---

### Post by x C0MMAND0 x on 2011-10-16
Try downloading KonBoot ([http://www.fiberdownload.com/Download/20686/Kon-Boot](http://www.fiberdownload.com/Download/20686/Kon-Boot)) which will let you start your system with elevated (root) privileges. 

***Be VERY careful what you do when you are logged into your system through this program (burns to a live CD), as you will have full ability to accidentally screw something up.  If you aren't 100% sure what command or anything you are running, don't do it.

I'm not sure if it will help you for sure, but it should be able to get you in as @root and then hopefully allow you to set or change a password on your system.

Again, BE CAREFUL!

---

### Post by gephyrin on 2011-10-17
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword) this dosent work!! says its an authentication error!! what a simple stupid bug!!!

---

### Post by Rhizoid on 2011-10-17
If you boot from a LiveCD/USB and create a new user with a known password you can copy the password hash from /etc/shadow in the live filesystem to the shadow file in your usual file system on the disk, then reboot and use the known password you copied across... it's a lot quicker than reinstalling from scratch.  I've not tested this with 11.10 or 11.04, but as far as I'm aware it should still work.

---

### Post by goodyboody on 2011-10-17
booting from live cd won't be a piece of cake ! 
There should be a simpler solution for it. But if there is not
then alas we can't do anything other than to boot from live cd..or re-install ubuntu 11.10

---

### Post by chand2020 on 2011-10-17
Simple!!! If you have set  password for root access then login as root and set new password directly for your administrator login.... If you don't set password for root just try it with blank..... I too have this problem but solved it with root login... ubuntu 11.10

---

### Post by Gledders on 2011-10-17
> **chand2020 said:**
> Simple!!! If you have set  password for root access then login as root and set new password directly for your administrator login.... If you don't set password for root just try it with blank..... I too have this problem but solved it with root login... ubuntu 11.10

Maybe I'm stupid but am very new to Ubuntu and don't quite understand this advice. Am in the same boat as everyone else with this.
I have installed on a netbook so no option of using a live cd.

Thanks
Gledders

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-10-18
> **Gledders said:**
> Maybe I'm stupid but am very new to Ubuntu and don't quite understand this advice. Am in the same boat as everyone else with this.
I have installed on a netbook so no option of using a live cd.

Thanks
Gledders
use the live usb flash drive instead, it's the same thing as the live cd.

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2011-10-18
> **Rhizoid said:**
> If you boot from a LiveCD/USB and create a new user with a known password you can copy the password hash from /etc/shadow in the live filesystem to the shadow file in your usual file system on the disk, then reboot and use the known password you copied across... it's a lot quicker than reinstalling from scratch. That's what I was about to suggest. This pretty much works on every Linux distro.

Setting accounts to blank passwords is always a **_BAD_** idea. This usually disables that account.

From the manual:  **man shadow**

*"... If the password field contains some string that is not a valid result of crypt(3), for instance ! or *, the user will not be able to use a unix password to log in ..."*

Another thing people with this problem might try:  **chroot**

- Boot from a live USB or live CD
- mount the "/" partition where your Ubuntu is installed on, e.g.
```
sudo su -
mount /dev/sda1 /mnt
```

If you used a more elaborate, old-school Unix partitioning scheme with separate /boot, /usr, /opt and /var partitions (... I usually do that ...), then you have to mount those too underneath the newly mounted "/"; in that case above sequence would be, e.g. (please adjust as needed!!):
```
sudo su -
mount /dev/sda5 /mnt
mount /dev/sda1 /mnt/boot
mount /dev/sda6 /mnt/usr
mount /dev/sda7 /mnt/opt
mount /dev/sda8 /mnt/var
mount /dev/sda9 /mnt/tmp
mount /dev/sda10 /mnt/home
...
``` Again: please adjust as needed.

- remount /dev, /proc and /sys so they are visible underneath /mnt; you'd do that as root:```

mount -o bind /proc /mnt/proc/
mount -o bind /dev /mnt/dev/
mount -o bind /sys /mnt/sys

```

Now you ***chroot*** (= *"change root"*) into your harddisks. It will be as if you had booted off your hard drive (you should still be "root" due to the ***"sudo su -"*** command early on):

```
chroot /mnt /bin/bash
```

==> Taddaaaa! If everything went correctly you should be super-user "root" and have control over your hard drives! You can now reset passwords if needed:

```

passwd your-normal-user
```

If that doesn't work you could create a new dummy user and then copy his new password hash into the password field of your old account ... that should work too. 

```
useradd -d /home/newuser -g users -G users,admin -m -s /bin/bash -U newuser
passwd newuser
``` Sorry, I couldn't test the command above, but it should create a new user account called *"newuser"* that is capable of executing ***sudo*** too ... So when you reboot normally again you may use this account to gain entry into the system and access to admin commands again, so you can repair things.

---

### Post by Gledders on 2011-10-18
Thanks to scorp123 my problems are over.
Didn't need to use your last suggestion as I followed the rest of it to the letter and it worked!
Many thanks

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2011-10-18
> **Gledders said:**
> Thanks to scorp123 my problems are over ...  You're welcome :D

Please mark the thread as "solved", OK? :)

---

### Post by MonolithImmortal on 2011-10-18
I don't understand why you'd want to set a blank password. If you set root as blank, anyone who could connect to you pc could run rm -rf. You'd be hosed.

As a note, never run rm -rf as root. It deletes everything in whatever directory you point it at.

---

### Post by nick3501 on 2011-10-18
well, for those laptop/netbook owners (such as myself) theres still the issue of the live USB. You cant make one if you have blanked your password, as I already mentioned, it requires admin password to write the bootloader (i have no idea why). So you end up quite stuck. There MUST be an easier way out of this, as many people apperently are setting their passwords blank thinking it will get them out of having to enter their password so often. (an annoying feature of upgrading ubuntu, i might add)

Also, WHAT is "token authentication manipulation error" that we are getting using the most well known method of changing the password? (in root shell, *passwd user*)

The good news is, for me, I could still back up all my files onto an ext. hard disk, and proceed to wipe the computer and do a fresh install (and on a side note, a fesh install fixed a number of issues I had from my previous 11.10 upgrade)

but I was lucky enough to have another computer to write myself a live USB (allbeit from windows, as apparently my xubuntu desktop refused to write any ISO that was not a xubuntu 11.04 iso)

---

### Post by WanderingAlbatross on 2011-10-18
I had the same problem and found this thread.  It seemed a bit long to me, so I kept looking and found [this one]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862543&highlight=authentication+token+manipulation+error").  It worked well for me.  It was able to do it from the user account by using the console (Ctrl-Alt-F1).  Before you try it, remember to get back is Ctrl-Alt-F7.  From other research it seems that whatever I did caused the user password to be set to NP for no password.  That was putting a lock on the password, and it had to be unlocked to get it to accept a new password.  It seems like this should be added to the documentation somewhere because a lot of people are doing it.

---

### Post by nick3501 on 2011-10-18
> **WanderingAlbatross said:**
> I had the same problem and found this thread.  It seemed a bit long to me, so I kept looking and found [this one]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862543&highlight=authentication+token+manipulation+error").  It worked well for me.  It was able to do it from the user account by using the console (Ctrl-Alt-F1).  Before you try it, remember to get back is Ctrl-Alt-F7.  From other research it seems that whatever I did caused the user password to be set to NP for no password.  That was putting a lock on the password, and it had to be unlocked to get it to accept a new password.  It seems like this should be added to the documentation somewhere because a lot of people are doing it.

excellent.

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2011-10-19
> **MonolithImmortal said:**
> I don't understand why you'd want to set a blank password. If you set root as blank, anyone who could connect to you pc could run rm -rf. Nonsense. You can't login when the password is empty. **/etc/ssh/sshd_config** clearly says this and it's a default value:```

...
PermitEmptyPasswords no
...
``` A user would have to be so ...ehmmm, "unfortunate" (to say it in a polite way) to edit that option too. So an empty password will create various problems (e.g. difficulties when trying to use **sudo** ...) but nothing of the sort you claim.

---

### Post by goodyboody on 2011-10-19
> **WanderingAlbatross said:**
> I had the same problem and found this thread.  It seemed a bit long to me, so I kept looking and found [this one]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862543&highlight=authentication+token+manipulation+error").  It worked well for me.  It was able to do it from the user account by using the console (Ctrl-Alt-F1).  Before you try it, remember to get back is Ctrl-Alt-F7.  From other research it seems that whatever I did caused the user password to be set to NP for no password.  That was putting a lock on the password, and it had to be unlocked to get it to accept a new password.  It seems like this should be added to the documentation somewhere because a lot of people are doing it.

Thanks You are a life saver..See I knew there must be easier solution no need to go crazy with live cd and crazy commands.
Simple Press CTRL ALT F1 
Type passwd
Enter your new password
Press CTRL ALT F7
enjoy..thanks..goes to..^^:popcorn:

---

### Post by scorp123 on 2011-10-19
You better keep bookmarks for those "crazy" commands, just in case you one day hose your system so bad that you can't even login ...

---

### Post by gawan on 2011-10-20
1. press CTRL + ALT + F1
2. log with your login name
3. type "passwd" and change your password
4. press ALT + F7

---

### Post by krvermeulen on 2012-05-03
> **gawan said:**
> 1. press CTRL + ALT + F1
2. log with your login name
3. type "passwd" and change your password
4. press ALT + F7

This saved my account, thank you!

---

### Post by ianp5a on 2012-06-10
This will recover you by removing the blank password. But is it possible to have a blank password without a problem? Or not have to enter a password when installing software or other system tasks?

(I dont want to try out a blank password and get stuck.)

---

