---
title: "RT 8.10 Kernel for single-core"
date: 2009-03-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by scaylos on 2009-03-08
Hi,
I'm fairly new to Linux. Ubuntu Intrepid 8.10 is the first distro I have tried. I've been having issues with Rosegarden (the system resolution error that sugests a RT kernel) and have only been able to find problems with dual/quad-core users.  As I have a single-core Athlon64, am I insulated from these issues?

Thanks,
Nick

---

### Post by sdennie on 2009-03-08
No, in fact, you are probably more susceptible than a dual/quad core.  I'm not familiar with rosegarden, but, if a piece of software is recommending that you need to run an RT kernel, it basically means that it's not able to utilize the CPU as quickly/often as it would like.  

Other processes are constantly running on your machine.  They don't take much CPU time but, the default Ubuntu kernel ticks at 250hz and only has voluntary preemption if a process is in kernel code.  What that means is that a minor background process can prevent even high priority processes from getting CPU time for 4ms in all cases and in some cases much longer.

The RT kernel ticks at 1000hz and has full preemption.  That means in many/most cases, the longest a background process can keep the CPU is 1ms and the worst case scenario is much better.  Which means that something with high priority can get CPU time much more frequently and reliably.

Ok, I'm rambling now.  To sum up, "Installing the RT kernel will probably help".

Edit:
Before anyone corrects me, yes, I realize this is a very simplified and not completely accurate description of things.

---

