---
title: "11.10 Screen Brightness resets to lowest setting when I restart laptop"
date: 2012-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Warstub on 2012-01-20
Every time I restart/reboot laptop, the brightness resets itself to the lowest setting. Really annoying.

I am a beginner Linux user. Please let me know if I have posted in wrong forum, and what further steps I should take if this problem is solvable.

Thanks. :)

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-01-20
Is it an nvidia video card? If so the nvidia binary driver doesn't save the brightness setting like it does to what you're probably used to in Windows. As far as I've read there isn't a solution for this but I may be wrong. I have to adjust via fn keys on boot myself.

---

### Post by Warstub on 2012-01-20
Graphics tab in System Info doesn't say.

The laptop is a Toshiba Satellite, L640, intel core i5

---

### Post by Warstub on 2012-01-20
okay, thanks.

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-01-20
Running the command

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

Should show you what card you have. 

And for future reference L640 is just your series of notebook. They shipped with both AMD and Intel CPU's depending on the model, and on Intel's sometimes laptops come with intel video cards and sometimes with nvidia, so always quote the full model for example Satellite L640-S1000. No worries, it's quite common. The actual model # is printed on the bottom of the laptop on the same sticker as the serial #.

---

### Post by Pro$pect on 2012-01-23
this is what worked for me:

> 
edit the file /etc/rc.local 

add this before line exit 0:

echo 5 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness 

Where 5 is the brightness level from 0 to 10

The max brightness is defined in /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/max_brightness. The default is 15 on my laptop. So if you want to set it to 50%, you should use echo 7

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-01-23
Worked here. Thank you! Oddly my max was 9!

---

### Post by Warstub on 2012-01-28
> **Pro$pect said:**
> this is what worked for me:ok, so I found the rc.local file, but I can't change it because I don't have permission. Can you please take me through the steps to do so.

Also, should there be gaps between any of the characters in "echo 5 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness"?

I tried to insert "lspci ... grep VGA" into terminal but I don't know what that line inbetween represents. 

Sorry, as I said, I'm new to Ubuntu, and don't actaully know all that much about computer language anyway.

I appreciate your help though.

---

### Post by partloer on 2012-01-28
I don't know if you are interested but I use a program called Redshift.  This changes the color temperature of your screen based on the position of the sun and your location.  During twilight and early morning, the color temperature transitions smoothly from night to daytime temperature to allow your eyes to slowly adapt.

[http://jonls.dk/redshift/]("http://jonls.dk/redshift/")

---

### Post by Rgibbons on 2012-01-28
Worked on HP Mini also. Thanks

---

### Post by scheibenlosen on 2012-01-28
> **Warstub said:**
> ok, so I found the rc.local file, but I can't change it because I don't have permission. Can you please take me through the steps to do so.

 After you open a terminal window, type "sudo gedit /etc/rc.local" without the quotes. You'll probably be asked for your password. Type it in and it'll open the file in Gedit.  Also, should there be gaps between any of the characters in &quot;echo 5 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness&quot;?

 Yes.  I tried to insert &quot;lspci ... grep VGA&quot; into terminal but I don't know what that line inbetween represents. 
 That's the character above the \ key.  
Sorry, as I said, I'm new to Ubuntu, and don't actaully know all that much about computer language anyway.

I appreciate your help though.

 Hope that helps some.

---

### Post by scheibenlosen on 2012-01-28
> **Warstub said:**
> ok, so I found the rc.local file, but I can't change it because I don't have permission. Can you please take me through the steps to do so.

Also, should there be gaps between any of the characters in &quot;echo 5 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness&quot;?

I tried to insert &quot;lspci ... grep VGA&quot; into terminal but I don't know what that line inbetween represents. 

Sorry, as I said, I'm new to Ubuntu, and don't actaully know all that much about computer language anyway.

I appreciate your help though.

 Okay. Open a terminal and then type &quot;sudo gedit /etc/rc.local&quot; without the quotes. You'll be asked for your password. Enter it, and the file will be opened in a text editor.  As to the gaps between the characters, yes there should be.  The | is just above the \, near your Enter/Return key. Hold the Shift key down while hitting the \ key.  Hope that helps.

---

### Post by siddi on 2012-07-24
I have the same issue on my acer SPIRE LAPTOP .... Everything was fine until one morning i switched on and the screen brigtness went low.

I am not able to change it back

Please help

---

### Post by Warstub on 2013-02-11
Okay, so what I did was follow these commands:

> **Pro$pect said:**
> this is what worked for me:Quote:
                                                 edit the file /etc/rc.local 

add this before line exit 0:

echo 5 > /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/brightness 

Where 5 is the brightness level from 0 to 10

The max brightness is defined in  /sys/class/backlight/acpi_video0/max_brightness. The default is 15 on my  laptop. So if you want to set it to 50%, you should use echo 7                      

Nothing happened.
So then I followed these commands:

> **czeem86 said:**
> Solved:

a friend has helped me to solve this
so i want to share the solution with others that might have the same issue:

type in the terminal:
sudo sed "s/\(GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=\)\"\"/\1\"acpi_osi=Linux acpi_backlight=vendor\"/" /etc/default/grub -i 

then type:
sudo update-grub

then type:
sudo reboot

hopefully it will work
best wishes

And now my laptop is stuck on max when booted up - complete opposite!
In the [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1976157&page=2](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1976157&page=2) forum, they talk about adding rc.local to start up application, but I don't know how to do that.

My video card on laptop is:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Core Processor Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 02)

---

