---
title: "Dual boot with xp, problems with sharing profile's thunderbird and firefox"
date: 2007-11-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hansje on 2007-11-29
Hello,

I have a dual boot with XP and Ubuntu Gutsy Gibbon. On both systems are Firefox and Thunderbird installed, so I would be able to share the profile in both OS's.
The profiles are on a separate drive formatted in NTFS. On my windows machine there is no problem, after editing profiles.ini. I did the same thing in Linux, but when I start Thunderbird or Firefox I get this Error: "Thunderbird/Firefox is already running but is not responding etc..." 
I opened a terminal and started Firefox using "firefox --profilemanager". Double clicked the wright Profile, now he is telling me the profile is in use.
I looked through the running processes, Firefox nor Thunderbird are there. I checked the profile for any lock-files.
I checked the read/wright permissions of the NTFS drive.
On my laptop this is working fine (XP-Feisty (profiles are on a FAT32 partition)).
It seems like I can't fix this one on my own, so I'm looking for some help.

Greetz
Hans

---

### Post by murt on 2007-11-30
Maybe it could be that the windows version of ff/tb saves some of its data in the windows registery?

---

### Post by Hansje on 2007-12-01
Maybe... I will try to figure that out
On my Laptop with Feisty there is no problem...
Thanks for helping

---

### Post by Hansje on 2007-12-03
Nobody?
Please, I realy need this to work

---

### Post by logos34 on 2007-12-03
Is write-support for NTFS enabled?  Maybe that has something to do with it.  just a guess

$ mount 

will indicate with 'fuseblk' rw if it is

---

### Post by nikosm on 2007-12-03
Hello Hansje,

I had the same problem as you. The difference is that I didn't touch the ini files, I created a new profile running firefox on ubuntu and told it to use the folder that lies on my windows NTFS partition, but I don't think this matters.

What worked for me was that I opened the NTFS partition where the profile lies (Places>Computer>...), entered my password, closed the nautilus window and then ran firefox / thunderbird again, and it worked.

Hope this helps. I guess if you have the NTFS partition mounted at boot, the problem will disappear completely.

Kind regards,
Nikos

---

### Post by MaximumFish on 2007-12-04
> **nikosm said:**
> Hello Hansje,

I had the same problem as you. The difference is that I didn't touch the ini files, I created a new profile running firefox on ubuntu and told it to use the folder that lies on my windows NTFS partition, but I don't think this matters.

What worked for me was that I opened the NTFS partition where the profile lies (Places>Computer>...), entered my password, closed the nautilus window and then ran firefox / thunderbird again, and it worked.

Hope this helps. I guess if you have the NTFS partition mounted at boot, the problem will disappear completely.

Kind regards,
Nikos

Can I ask how you did this exactly? I can't find an option for creating a new profile in either Firefox or Thunderbird and I'd love to share the profiles of both between Windows and Ubuntu.

---

### Post by nikosm on 2007-12-06
> **MaximumFish said:**
> Can I ask how you did this exactly? I can't find an option for creating a new profile in either Firefox or Thunderbird and I'd love to share the profiles of both between Windows and Ubuntu.
Hello,

sorry for the late answer, I was away...

open a terminal window and type
```
firefox -profilemanager
```

there it will ask you for a name of your new profile (I called it shared_profile) and at the next screen you are asked to either use the default folder (which is some random string generated by firefox dot the name you just entered) or a folder of your choice. Press choose folder... and navigate to your windows xp profile (it's under Documents and Settings>(your user name)>Application Data>Mozilla>Firefox>Profiles)

Kind regards,
Nikos

---

### Post by MaximumFish on 2007-12-06
Awesome, thank you! I'm guessing you can do the same with Thunderbird too. Time to give it a try. :)

Edit: Yep, worked with Thunderbird too. Thanks again.

---

### Post by nikosm on 2007-12-06
> **MaximumFish said:**
> Awesome, thank you! I'm guessing you can do the same with Thunderbird too. Time to give it a try. :)

Edit: Yep, worked with Thunderbird too. Thanks again.

You are welcome.

Hansje, please let us know if (and how) your problem has been resolved.

Nikos

---

