---
title: "gtk 2.x"
date: 2009-07-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by muctadir on 2009-07-02
please tell me what is gtk 2.x..
what can i do with it...???
how can i install it???

---

### Post by WRDN on 2009-07-02
GTK is the name given to the libraries used to create some Graphical User Interfaces (GUIs). You can read more about the toolkit [here]("http://www.gtk.org/").

---

### Post by credobyte on 2009-07-02
WinAPI ( Win32 ) and GTK ( Gnome ) are libraries .. you can't do anything with them, unless you are a programmer :)

---

### Post by WRDN on 2009-07-02
> **credobyte said:**
> WinAPI ( Win32 ) and GTK ( Gnome ) are libraries .. you can't do anything with them, unless you are a programmer :)

*cough* [Glade]("http://glade.gnome.org/") *cough*

You don't have to be a programmer to build GUIs, to understand the code generated by Glade though, you will need to understand the Gtk elements you added (e.g. button (Widget)).

Knowing how to program is essential if you want to create a usable UI though.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-07-02
> **muctadir said:**
> 
how can i install it???

It's already installed. When you log into your desktop and open a file browser window, that's running using GTK 2.

Why do you ask? Are you trying to compile software? Before compiling software from source code, first check if the program is available in Synaptic Package Manager (press the Reload button first).

If the program isn't available from Synaptic, and it's not available as a .deb file or a binary installer, only then should you try compiling the source code. If the configure script tells you that it can't find GTK 2, then it really means that it can't find the development libraries for GTK; install the "libgtk2.0-dev" package.

---

### Post by credobyte on 2009-07-02
> **WRDN said:**
> *cough* [Glade]("http://glade.gnome.org/") *cough*

You don't have to be a programmer to build GUIs, to understand the code generated by Glade though, you will need to understand the Gtk elements you added (e.g. button (Widget)).

Knowing how to program is essential if you want to create a usable UI though.

> The *Glade* interface designer enables you to create and edit user interface designs for      *GTK+* applications.
Programmer, designer .. whatever you call it :p

---

