---
title: "21.04 xorg very slow to start"
date: 2021-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by The Miker on 2021-05-21
Since upgrading to 21.04 I've noticed (can't help but notice) that xorg takes forever to load. It will sit at the login screen for about 5 minutes before it finally loads and I can't figure out why for the life of me. Dmesg doesn't show anything incredibly useful and Xorg.0.log might have some clues but I'm not really sure if that's it, nor would I know how to fix it if it was. I'll attach it regardless. Another strange thing is that GNOME uses a ton of RAM on startup. Right now it's consuming roughly 4GB of RAM. I've tried disabling extensions, looking at systemd services and disabling ones that might cause the issue, you name it.

Also, this might be unrelated, but when I start a Wayland session it does load instantly, but GNOME apps will refuse to load. Looking at the log shows that apparently the Yaru cursor theme can't be found, and that's what's causing the issue... but it's there. I'm using it. So I don't know.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-05-22
21.04 tries to start wayland first. If that fails, it is supposed to fallback to using X11.
I don't use Gnome3, call it personal taste.  Anyways, the last time I saw a really slow Ubuntu desktop was with 20.04 using ZFS in the experimental install.  It was painful - similar to what you've seen.  I ended up doing a new install with LVM+ext4 instead and everything became fast again.

BTW, since 18.04, Ubuntu Desktops have started using almost 2x more disk storage than before.  I'm blaming snaps.  Also, the default "swapfile" size seems to have been set to just under 1G, at least on my systems, so I manually remove the swapfile and create a swap partition/LV of 4.1G.  To me, on a desktop, there is only 1 swap size that works well regardless of physical RAM - that's 4.1G.  About a year ago, there was a long thread about swap in these forums.

I did not look at your ZIP file. Sorry. That seems too much like "work."

---

### Post by The Miker on 2021-05-22
Even when I had Wayland disabled entirely (through /etc/gdm3/custom.conf) Xorg would still take a very long time to load. I thought maybe the issue was that they did something funky with Wayland/Xorg in 21.04 so I tried turning it back on to see if it helped. It didn't.

---

