---
title: "9.10 - Auto user select at login"
date: 2009-12-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wilhoward on 2009-12-27
I've been looking through my menus and also searching the forums for a while now and can't seem to find anything relating to my issue.

As there is only one user profile on my computer I would like to have that profile automatically selected when the boot up gets to the login screen so literally all I have to do is type my password and tap "enter".
Is there any way of doing this?

If this is useful at all I'm using an Eee PC 1000H with a fresh Ubuntu 9.10 install and fully updated.

---

### Post by diablo75 on 2009-12-27
Have a look at this:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AutoLogin](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/AutoLogin)

Now, that is if you want it to auto-login to your account and not ask for a password... I know that's not exactly what you asked for but there may be an opinion within that panel that will let you auto-select the user but not actually log you in automatically.

The other draw back about not having a password is that if you have Wireless networks already setup you'll be asked to type your keyring password in to grant the system access to the encryption password needed to authenticate with your wireless router.  This can be reset so that it doesn't ask for a password to if it becomes an annoyance.

---

### Post by wilhoward on 2009-12-27
I've always known about that but I can't set auto login due to other people being in the house I don't want accessing my files and also the keyring makes it kinda pointless.

There used to be that option ages ago but I can't seem to find it in 9.10

Thanks for the reply though.

---

### Post by wilhoward on 2009-12-27
Bump...

Really looking at solving this.

---

### Post by wilhoward on 2009-12-30
No?

---

### Post by lloyd_b on 2009-12-30
With GDM (Gnome Display Manager), it appears to be a definite no.  If you want to remove GDM and install KDM ((KDE's equivalent to GDM), it *does* support auto-selecting the user (there's an option to automatically select the last logged in user, and set focus to the password field, which sounds like what you want).

I've never tried using KDM with Gnome, so I have no clue how difficult it would be to set this up...

Lloyd B.

---

