---
title: ".htaccess problem"
date: 2011-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Muhammad El-Saeed on 2011-04-20
I have a problem, when I try .htaccess file on var/www it works correctly but when I try public_html folder I got Internal Server Error

I tried to add this to **/etc/apache2/sites-available/default**
or **/etc/apache2/apache2.conf**
it still upon

```
<Directory /home/*/public_html/>
        AllowOverride All
</Directory>
```

---

### Post by ttshivers on 2011-04-20
I think this might help you [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/howto/public_html.html]("http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.0/howto/public_html.html")

---

### Post by Doug S on 2011-04-21
I do not think that you need the lines you showed in your default file (what I mean to say, is that I do not have them and I use .htaccess on some subfolders of my public_html directory).
If you have enabled the use of .htaccess in the /var/www directory, and it sounds as though you have because you mentioned it works, then I think it should follow onto subdirectories.
Was use of the users public_html directories enabled? It is disabled by default and the userdir mods have to be enabled. To check look at /etc/apache2/mods-enabled for two links to userdir.conf and userdir.load. To enable:
```
 
sudo a2enmod userdir
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart

```
Just for completness, perhaps for other readers, in general use of .htaccess is enabled via an edit to /etc/apache2/sites-available/default:
Change these lines:
```
        <Directory /var/www/>
                Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
                AllowOverride None
                Order allow,deny
                allow from all
        </Directory>

```To this:```
 
        <Directory /var/www/>
                Options Indexes FollowSymLinks MultiViews
                AllowOverride All
                Order allow,deny
                allow from all
         </Directory>

```
Note: There are many references that recommend to never use the ./htaccess method, but rather use the authentication method where each restricted folder is listed in the /etc/apache2/sites-available/default file. Myself, I use the .htaccess method because my site has very low traffic rates ( read: pretty much none ) and I find it easier. If I wanted to use the other method for a directory called "protected_1" the added code to the default file would be:
```
 
<Directory "/home/doug/public_html/protected_1/">
   AllowOverride FileInfo AuthConfig Limit
   Options MultiViews Indexes SymLinksIfOwnerMatch IncludesNoExec
   Authtype basic
   AuthName "Registered users only permitted"
   AuthUserFile /home/doug/.htpasswd
   Require valid-user
</Directory>


```
In either case the .htpasswd file should be located somewhere not accessable via an external web browser.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2011-04-21
Actually, if you have .htaccess working properly at the /var/www level, then the user public_html level should inherit the same policy, I think.
I tried it on my old system, albeit a different version of everything ( Ubuntu server 6.06 ) and the public_html folder did inherit, as expected. I did not do the experiment on my new system ( Ubuntu server 10.10 )
 
Also, the link given by ttshivers above might be incorrect, depending on which version of apache you are running. You might want the version 2.2 notes at: [http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/howto/public_html.html](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/howto/public_html.html) 
[http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/howto/htaccess.html](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/howto/htaccess.html) 
I only mention it because when I was learning this stuff I managed to get myself thoroughly confused by using the wrong version howto notes.

---

