---
title: "12.04 Login screen freeze"
date: 2012-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aextance on 2012-05-01
I upgraded to 12.04 (Precise Pangolin) on Sunday through the update manager. Seemed a slight improvement on Oneiric initially, though after finding poor call quality on Skype yesterday I again disabled the PulseAudio that I'd previously disabled but had been reinstalled. Then after shutting down and restarting the login screen froze. I can move the mouse, and login through Ctrl+Alt+F1, but not interact with anything on the login screen. 

Interestingly, after reading this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1967945](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1967945)

I tried logging in with GDM from the terminal, but that didn't even bring up a login box (I haven't used ubuntu tweak, btw)

I also tried setting GDM as the default display manager, but the boot process hangs when I do that. However, I've been able to get into Ubuntu by keeping lightdm as the default display manager, then pressing ctrl+alt+F1 when getting to the frozen login. From there:

sudo stop lightdm
startx

Got me into Ubuntu. I had to log in to the keyring but it looks like I should be able to get some work done. Changing my wallpaper hasn't fixed my problem, which is the suggestion in the "known bugs" thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1968155](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1968155) 

I'm reluctant to reinstall right now as I have a lot of work on and my partitions are a bit of a mess, but I may well do so once I get some breathing space - unless another obvious answer becomes clear!

---

### Post by aextance on 2012-05-01
Oops!

---

### Post by LinuxPS2 on 2012-05-04
I have a feeling you are encountering the same issue as I.

[EDIT May 4, 2012]
It appears to just be a permission error with the ~/.Xauthority file, currently the solution seems to be to just delete the file as xauth/xinit will generate a new one. This is easy, but if you would though, do me a favor and first provide your output from
```
ls -l ~/.Xauthority
```

To delete the ~/.Xauthority file
```
sudo rm ~/.Xauthority 
```


If for some reason its NOT a file permission issue, the below method worked for me

[OLD May 3, 2012]
Let's see what we have, on the surface it appears to either be an issue with lightdm itself or with our graphics driver (at least for me, my resolution reduced to 640x480) - lets take a look at the logs!

First looking to lightdm's logs
```
sudo nano /var/log/lightdm/x-0.log
```

or alternatively we can look through the Xorg file for errors, coded (EE) within the file
```
grep -e '(EE)' /var/log/Xorg.0.log
```

in both instances we are greeted with the same two errors (if not, perhaps we have differing issues)
```
[...](EE) No devices detected.
[...](EE) Failed to initialize GLX extension (Compatible NVIDIA X driver not found)
```


So, lets reinstall Mesa for GL
```
sudo apt-get --reinstall install libgl1-mesa-glx
```

Reboot your computer
```
sudo reboot
```

After the reboot,  your computer should be back to a functioning state albeit absent hardware acceleration.

If your NVIDIA graphics card, like my G310M, features Optimus powersaving features, you should take advantage of that!  (Thanks to VXLabs and Team Bumblebee) [[http://vxlabs.com/2012/05/01/review-of-ubuntu-linux-12-04-on-the-samsung-np300v3a-core-i5-nvidia-optimus-laptop/]](http://vxlabs.com/2012/05/01/review-of-ubuntu-linux-12-04-on-the-samsung-np300v3a-core-i5-nvidia-optimus-laptop/])

So, if hardware acceleration is a must and you have a graphics card that features Optimus here are the steps to go about utilizing your graphics card

Add all the appropriate PPAs for NVIDIA drivers and bumblebee
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bumblebee/stable
```

Update your repository list and install bumblebee
```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia
```

Add your user to the bumblebee group
```
sudo usermod -a -G bumblebee $USER
```

Logout and log back in to see the changes - you should now have hardware acceleration working (assuming you also have an Optimus capable graphics card)

---

### Post by aextance on 2012-05-08
Thanks for this, but in the end I did do a clean install of Ubuntu, which has let me log in. I've mainly been working in Windows since, as with every upgrade of the Ubuntu system I lose 5-10 hours making the new OS work on my machine. 

Shall I mark this as solved, or do you want me to leave it open for other users?

---

