---
title: "24.04 auto extracts ZIP file when opening"
date: 2024-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gmc1 on 2024-04-28
Since upgrading from 23.04 to 24.04 when I double click on a zip file, the file automatically extracts to the current folder rather than opening up the zip and I can then preview the contents. 

Is this a new feature to 24.04? How do I disable this as I don't want to automatically extract every zip file I open?

---

### Post by hong-xu on 2024-04-29
Were you using Archive Manager for zip files before?

1. Right-click on any zip file in the file manager.
2. Click on "Open with...".
3. Check "Always use for this file type".
4. Select "Archive Manager".

---

### Post by gmc1 on 2024-04-29
Thanks - that did it. Though I can't find Archive Manager - looks like it's been replaced with File Roller which seems to do the same thing.

---

### Post by hong-xu on 2024-04-29
Right, it's called File Roller -- my bad.

---

### Post by erotemic on 2024-05-04
I also had this issue with an install of 24.04. I don't see File Roller in my install. It doesn't show up in the "open with" menu, nor can I search for it in gnome.

 I had to `[COLOR=var(--primary)][FONT=var(--d-font-family--monospace)]sudo apt install file-roller`

[/FONT][/COLOR]I think this new default behavior is a mistake. I don't always need every file in a zipfile. Sometimes I just want to read a small text document in it. Automatically deflating can also be a security risk as double clicking a file will trigger a zipbomb without any warning.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2024-05-05
Based on recommendations from other users I adopted Recoll as my main desktop indexing engine. So in your case (after full lengthy indexing process) run in Recoll GUI Query Language - ext:zip
This means show extensions of type zip.   Other examples might be ext:pdf  ext:docx .. etc. Hover over query field to see cheat sheet.
You have multiple options for viewing. You can also customise to open in your own script. MIME viewers.

---

