---
title: "15.10 Black Login Screen - Unable to Login"
date: 2015-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by James_N. on 2015-11-05
Hello. I am new to Ubuntu so please bear with me. I had been enjoying Wily Werewolf for about a week after I UEFI installed it with a USB drive when one day it suddenly decides to stop working on me. I dual boot my lapop which is a Dell 7537 Inspiron i7 4510u GT750m graphics 16gb system. Checking disk management on Windows shows my partitions are healthy. When I turn on the machine, I am presented with the Grub2 bootloader menu. After the Ubuntu option is selected, some white text appears on the upper left of the screen: 0/1 and something about this much out of this much blocks. Then the loading screen comes up except it the animation does not go dot dot dot like normal - it rushes through. Then I am met with a black login screen:
Ubuntu 15.10 jdwinrar-dell tty1
jdwinrar-dell login:
I cannot login from this screen and Ctrl + Alt + F7 does nothing as well. Mouse cursor is also not present. I should note that when installing I selected the option to never login at boot-up time meaning I'd only need to login after I had logged out. I would like to know possibly what happened to the Ubuntu on my PC to cause this to happen as I would like to go back to it if possible without reinstalling. I did some minor tweaks for appearances, but after those it booted up fine. Maybe it was the uninstalling of my Nvidia graphics driver on the Windows partition? As you can see, I am at a complete loss and would appreciate any help. Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-11-05
Welcome. Have you updated/upgrade lately? Try doing that and rebooting. May not achieve much but we'll know your machine is up to date and there is nothing obsolete blocking the road. 

At the login screen, control+alt+F1, login to the CLI, then:

```

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

```	

You need to be online for this. Post back any anomalies in the output (don't need the whole output, just any messy bits at end for now).

PS: Any changes on the Windows side should have nothing to do with Ubuntu. They are on two separate partitions, only one boots at any one time, and never the twain shall (should) meet. :)

---

### Post by James_N. on 2015-11-05
I'm not sure what you meant by online, but I got to the tty1 login screen and tried control + alt + F1 and it was unresponsive. I did get a rough snapshot by booting several times of the bootup text though (I don't have any means of taking photos):

Ignoring EGRT invalid 0/1
nouveau E[ something something 00002 fault
nouveau E[ something something 00002 fault
fsck from util.
sda6 clean ##########/############ blocks

---

### Post by James_N. on 2015-11-06
Shameless self-bump...

---

### Post by James_N. on 2015-11-09
Could someone please help? I doubt I'm the only one experiencing this problem.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2015-11-09
James_N. Hello .. 

1) UEFI
2) dual booting Windows
3) auto login
4) release 15.10 with the new systemd  initiate system
-------- ouch ------- Where to start ?

Tell you what .. how about we try and boot in " recovery - (failsafe ?) mode " ?
Boot to grub's boot menu ( escape key when the firmware screen clears) , advanced options -> recovery -> resume normal boot ( or some such) - As I have no access presently to 15.10 and do not know what I am talking about I can not be certain.

For the present, we play around with grub's boot options and see what we can do . Once we know our options we can go deeper and find the cause of this situation . We will want a terminal at some point . Just a matter of finding out what it will take to get us a terminal.

[INDENT][INDENT]longest journey starts
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]with the 1st step
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

