---
title: "New 10.10 User, Having Shortcut Problems"
date: 2010-12-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by deathblossom on 2010-12-27
Hey all, my mom got my sister a netbook for Xmas (Aspire One) and the Windows 7 Starter it came with is a load of crap, so I'm trying to get her into the Ubuntu Netbook Remix, but to do that, I have to like it and know it first, but coming from the desktop variant, I'm having a hard time.

1) So apparently the Super/Win key is supposed to act as a shortcut to access the dock. This works for everything except what I'd really like it to work for: the system shortcuts. Namely:

Files and Folders
Applications
Workspaces/Expose (more on this later)

So there's currently no shortcut to easily get to the applications for me. I installed gnome do as an alternative (once I read the workaround for getting it to work, since remix apparently has a hold on the super key), however, my next problem is:

2) The Unity panel/dock keeps disappearing. When I was first launching Firefox, it launched with the panel intact. Now when I launch it, the window maximizes completely and the panel disappears with no way for me to bring it back (except to do a superkey shortcut that actually works). Why is this happening? How can I stop it from happening? Why is there no maximize decoration on the window to bring the panel back? Why does the toggle maximization state shortcut (Alt+F10) not work? The new shortcut I assigned for Gnome Do (ctrl+space) also works sporadically if this happens, so it's hard for me to click this away.

3) Supposedly clicking on the menu icon brings up an an expose like interface of all your open windows. Great, except this doesn't happen. I get a screen that brings up a bunch of menu categories like Web/Games/Office/etc. I want expose. The Workspaces icon currently on the dock is not expose and also, the superkey shortcut for this does not work.

Please help, I'm having heaps of frustration with netbook remix due to these shortcuts/usability problems.

---

