---
title: "14.04 LTS on Acer C720 - issues with disk partitions"
date: 2014-09-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by josh90 on 2014-09-22
GParted detects 12 /sda partitions and a few unallocated partitions on my 16 gig SSD. I have installed ChrUbuntu on this machine a number of times, and I haven't ever "cleanly" installed it (I haven't ever wiped the disk prior to reinstallation) - I suspect that this has something to do with the partitions that are showing up here. I understand that Chrome OS (which I wish to keep) still possesses space, and that it's unlikely that all of the partitions listed in GParted are invalid - but is there any way I could safely examine the contents of these partitions and/or delete and merge them with my Chrome OS space? Is it normal to have 12 /sda partitions and a few unallocated spaces? I can provide further info if needed.

Thanks in advance for any help you can provide.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-09-22
ChromeOS has like 9 partitions.  It is a GPT disk, so I wouldn't worry about it.  Here's my Chromebook partition today:
```
$ sudo parted -l
Model: ATA SC2 M2 SSD (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 128GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: gpt

Number  Start   End     Size    File system     Name    Flags
 1      1049kB  17.8MB  16.8MB                          bios_grub
 7      17.8MB  91.0GB  91.0GB  ext4            ROOT-C
15      107GB   126GB   18.8GB  ext4
 2      126GB   128GB   2202MB  linux-swap(v1)

```
I deleted all the ChromeOS partitions after loading Ubuntu Server on it, but didn't bother to clean up the partition numbering.  See how there's an sda15?  That wasn't me being cleaver. It was just the next partition number available.

I only ran ChromeOS long enough to change to dev mode, legacy boot and get Ubuntu installed. Didn't look too hard at the partitioning - just deleted the ones I didn't need any more, then shifted the storage to use that space for something useful.

---

### Post by josh90 on 2014-09-23
Awesome, thanks. I'm a bit new to the whole Linux deal, and didn't remember seeing this many partitions on my last install (13.10).

---

### Post by TheFu on 2014-09-23
> **josh90 said:**
> Awesome, thanks. I'm a bit new to the whole Linux deal, and didn't remember seeing this many partitions on my last install (13.10).

I use lots of partitions, when it makes sense, when using encryption or LVM and only on physical machines.  For virtual machines, I keep it simple - 1 partition for / and another for swap.  I avoid complexity, until it is necessary.

---

