---
title: "Help External Harddrive"
date: 2007-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rcmullins on 2007-05-07
I am having a hell of a time trying to get this hard-drive mounted. Drive is ntfs I am guessing.  Used to be able to access it with ubuntu.  I left-clicked--->properties---> and changed the file structure to ntfs and now it cannot be mounted at all.  

Error is:
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdb1, missing codepage or other error   In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try dmesg|tail or so

*Output of **fstab** looks like this:*
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=e5126d40-9782-46cf-83f7-8c88cc6d3a30 / ntfs defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=dbb9da8d-7de3-4cba-a876-e578a2431acf none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

*Output of **mtab** looks like this:*
/dev/sda1 / ext3 rw,errors=remount-ro 0 0
proc /proc proc rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
/sys /sys sysfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev 0 0
varrun /var/run tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=0755 0 0
varlock /var/lock tmpfs rw,noexec,nosuid,nodev,mode=1777 0 0
procbususb /proc/bus/usb usbfs rw 0 0
udev /dev tmpfs rw,mode=0755 0 0
devshm /dev/shm tmpfs rw 0 0
devpts /dev/pts devpts rw,gid=5,mode=620 0 0
lrm /lib/modules/2.6.20-15-generic/volatile tmpfs rw 0 0
binfmt_misc /proc/sys/fs/binfmt_misc binfmt_misc rw 0 0

This is really driving me nuts, can anybody help?

Additionally, I have done the following:

1. Created a new mount point ie:
mkdir media/External

2. Ran:
sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/sda /mnt/External

3. Error:
mount point mnt/External does not exist.

4. Created mount point ie:
mkdir mnt/External

4. Ran:
sudo mount -t ntfs /dev/sda1 /mnt/External
mount: /dev/sda1 already mounted or /mnt/External busy
mount: according to mtab, /dev/sda1 is mounted on /

---

### Post by rcmullins on 2007-05-07
See:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2611533#post2611533](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=2611533#post2611533)

For more details.  Getting help there.

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-05-07
/dev/sda1 is your / partition and it is already mounted so what are you trying to do here?

```

# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=e5126d40-9782-46cf-83f7-8c88cc6d3a30 / ntfs defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

```

Post the output of this command and point to which partition you want to mount to /mnt/External?

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

---

