---
title: "16.10 systemd-resolved - want to disable IPv6?"
date: 2017-02-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KillerKelvUK on 2017-02-07
Just want to stop a process listening for a connection that will never come is all.  Here ([http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/yakkety/en/man5/systemd.network.5.html](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/yakkety/en/man5/systemd.network.5.html)) says to ensure that IPv6 is disabled on the interface which it is but still I see the process is listening on a tcp6 port...
```

netstat -tulpn gives...

Active Internet connections (only servers)
Proto Recv-Q Send-Q Local Address           Foreign Address         State       PID/Program name    
...         
tcp6       0      0 :::5355                 :::*                    LISTEN      1166/systemd-resolv 
...     
udp6       0      0 :::5355                 :::*                                1166/systemd-resolv 

```

/etc/sysctrl.conf as the following lines included...

```

net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.default.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.lo.disable_ipv6 = 1
net.ipv6.conf.wlp2s0.disable_ipv6 = 1

```

Any recommendations/ideas welcome?

---

### Post by geeksmith on 2017-02-07
Did you reboot or run a sysctl command after editing /etc/sysctl.conf? Did you edit **/etc/[COLOR="#0000FF"]sysctl[/COLOR].conf** or **/etc/[COLOR="#FF0000"]sysctrl[/COLOR].conf** (seems like you may have mistyped the name in your post, but maybe you didn't)?

After modifying /etc/sysctl.conf, you run this to apply the changes:
```
sudo sysctl -p /etc/sysctl.conf
```

---

### Post by KillerKelvUK on 2017-02-07
Hey sorry, yes its a typo I meant /etc/sysctl.conf.  Also ran the commend and manually verified the conf had taken...

```

kelvin@blackbookpro:~$ cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/all/disable_ipv6 
1
kelvin@blackbookpro:~$ cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/default/disable_ipv6 
1
kelvin@blackbookpro:~$ cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/lo/disable_ipv6 
1
kelvin@blackbookpro:~$ cat /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/wlp2s0/disable_ipv6 
1

```

but systemd-resolved still shows its poky lil IPv6 head :-/

---

### Post by geeksmith on 2017-02-07
Have you also restarted systemd-resolved? I imagine a reboot at this point may allow all open IPv6 sockets to be released, then prevented at the next boot.

---

### Post by bearlake on 2017-02-07
You can disable it from the Grub as well on boot.

```
sudo nano /etc/default/grub
```

Look for 

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="xxxxx"      and add the following line to the end <ipv6.disable=1> so it looks like below.


```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX="xxxxx ipv6.disable=1"
```


```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by KillerKelvUK on 2017-02-08
@geeksmith, yup have manually restarted the process with systemctl and also rebooted.

@bearlake, haven't tried it as a boot time parameter so will give that a try and see if it produces different results.

Thanks both.

---

### Post by KillerKelvUK on 2017-02-10
So adding ipv6.disable=1 to the grub cmdline resolved this, albeit it was on-top of the /etc/sysctl.conf conf so will try removing that and re-test but thanks for the help :-)

EDIT:

So no config needed in /etc/sysctl.conf if disabling IPv6 as a kernel boot time parameter.

---

### Post by bearlake on 2017-02-10
> **KillerKelvUK said:**
> So adding ipv6.disable=1 to the grub cmdline resolved this, albeit it was on-top of the /etc/sysctl.conf conf so will try removing that and re-test but thanks for the help :-)

EDIT:

So no config needed in /etc/sysctl.conf if disabling IPv6 as a kernel boot time parameter.

Glad I was able to help, ran into the same problem 6 months a go.

---

