---
title: "I cant open gedit"
date: 2008-07-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mdmytryk on 2008-07-14
when i try to run  gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf i can with no problem, but when i try to with sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf it will either crash or not open at all? whats going on here?

---

### Post by geeth on 2008-07-14
Does gedit open in general?
Ie what happens when you just run 
gedit

or make a test file and then try to open it with gedit

---

### Post by mcduck on 2008-07-14
You should use "gksudo gedit".

Always use "sudo" for CLI apps, and "gksudo" for graphical apps.

Also, when you run the command does it output anything to the terminal? If it does, please paste the output here..

---

### Post by mdmytryk on 2008-07-14
Thanks for the prompt replies guys. 

When i type only "gedit" it will open fine and nothing is outputd in the terminal.  gksudo gedit prompts me for a password but often times gets hung up. When gedit eventually does open, it greys out almost instantly, and here again nothing is output to the terminal.  Is is possible something is corrupted here?



Also, Could I use VI to edit this, so rather than sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
could i use sudo vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf?  Im brand new to linix so pardon me if this is ridiculou question. 

thanks again

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-07-14
If you're brand new to Linux I recommend not a simpler solution -- vi is well loved but not very user friendly. First, before editing xorg.conf make a backup copy. Try "sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf". The mouse isn't supported so use the arrow keys. All commands are shown on the bottom of the screen.

---

### Post by geeth on 2008-07-14
> **fragos said:**
> If you're brand new to Linux I recommend not a simpler solution -- vi is well loved but not very user friendly. First, before editing xorg.conf make a backup copy. Try "sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf". The mouse isn't supported so use the arrow keys. All commands are shown on the bottom of the screen.

I couldn't agree more with this. 
Nano is very easy you just have to look at the bottom. The commands are like 
^x 
which is ctrl+x for exit.

vi for someone that is new is about as easy as chewing concrete

---

### Post by mdmytryk on 2008-07-15
Thanks for the input on VI. I have used it several times in the past when i used to mess around with C++, so i am a little familiar with it.  Thats a little besides the point, im still not sure why i cant open gedit with sudo?

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-07-15
I always use gksudo but tried sudo gedit to see if I could reproduce your problem but it works for me. Does the same happen if you run "sudo nautilus"?

---

### Post by mdmytryk on 2008-07-15
this is what i get when i type sudo nautilus:

Initializing nautilus-share extension
seahorse nautilus module initialized.

I am beginning to wonder if there is something wrong (missing) with my /etc/X11/xorg.conf. When i open it in VI, all i see is the following:

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Default Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Defaultdepth    24
EndSection


should there be more here?

---

### Post by fragos on 2008-07-15
My xorg.conf follows. Note I'm configured for a Wacom Graphire4:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Stylus2" 	"3"  # set button to right click
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"USB"           "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"USB"           "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"USB"           "on"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"pad"
	Option		"Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"          "pad"
	Option		"USB"           "on"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "pad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

