---
title: "Changing to a Custom Resolution for HDTV using NVIDIA Drivers"
date: 2010-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by C4U53 on 2010-07-17
I have a Philips 19' HDTV I use as my monitor, I have tried every guide out there, including the wiki one with xandr. Nothing works for me. This seems like it should be way easier, set custom resolution go.. but this isn't the case.

Using Ubuntu 10.04 -

I've tried editing the xorg.conf and adding the modelines and changing the modes , I've tried the xandr commands. I've tried guides from years ago to current ones. I'm desperate, Everything is cut off like maybe an inch not even. Can just barely see the edges of the top and bottom bars.

I've been working on this for many many hours coming up with nothing every time. I wish there was a way to just resize the desktop.

Please help so I can goto sleep. Tons of thanks in advance

Here is my most recent attempt at the conf file.

> 
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Philips 19PFL3403D"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 68.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 62.0
    ModeLine       "1808x974@0" 0.00 1808 1840 1840 1872 974 998 998 1023
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600M GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1808x974_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-07-17
remove xorg.conf as kernel now directly deals with X (or rename it)

sudo rm -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf

into synaptic, check that nvidia-settings is installed
then goto system -> admin -> nvidia xserver settings to set prefs

---

### Post by C4U53 on 2010-07-17
I removed the xorg.conf as suggested.

First thing I tried was the nvidia settings. The resolutions it list that I can choose from are not right. It seems to be missing all the ones I could use.

Thanks for the help.

PS. I double checked the package manager to be sure and all the nvidia packages are installed.

---

### Post by C4U53 on 2010-07-17
Ok, So this is what worked for me, simple solutions, One is just not paying attention, however I still do not know how to add custom resolutions. Hopefully this will help someone some day, moving on:

For my resolution issue it was a matter of OVERSCAN - I didn't know that was what my main issue was called. To fix this, go into the nvidia settings , select the actual name of your display then adjust the overscan slider. 

It's kind of just thrown in there and not where you'd expect, so look for it if you don't see it at first, click every button if you have to, thats how I found it. (Note: I had clicked every selectable item before doing this a second time, I just overlooked it the many times I went into the settings manager.. somehow)

As for my sound issue it was just a matter of installing gnome-alsamixer , once there (for me) you'll see like IEC958 / IEC958 Default PCM and finally IEC958 ... By default IEC958 and IEC958 are checked, the only one that matters is the one that isn't the third IEC958 however you(I) can't uncheck the first IEC958.

I just wonder if I messed anything else up editing different confs trying different solutions, tempted to do a fresh install so I can start -clean- unless there is an easier way to do this without starting all over.


Any info on how and why what I did worked would be great also.

Thanks.

---

