---
title: "9.04: /etc/crypttab being ignored?"
date: 2009-09-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ESC201 on 2009-09-20
Hi all, I used the Ubuntu 9.04 Desktop Alternate Install CD to setup my encrypted system a while back. I have two hdd's; one a backup of the other and I recently pulled the backup out to use for a project in another system. Now I'm trying to put it back in my Ubuntu system as a backup again. I've manually re-created the encrypted partitions and edited my crypttab and fstab accordingly. However, it appears that my /etc/crypttab file is being ignored. I am now only asked for the passphrase for my main hdd (the non-backup one) at boot time. In fact, I commented out the line for it in my crypttab and it still asked for it's passphrase at boot. This leads me to believe the crypttab file is being ignored and the data in it is really stored somewhere else. Is this correct? Any help or a point the right direction is awesome. Thanks!

---

### Post by ESC201 on 2009-09-23
Problem persists. Anyone? :confused:

---

### Post by ESC201 on 2009-12-04
I decided to revisit this problems months later. It still persists despite hours of efforts to determine the problem and/or what I'm doing wrong. Can anyone point me in the right direction? Thank you!

EDIT: I gave up and reinstalled with Ubuntu 9.10. /etc/crypttab now works properly.

---

### Post by jf/ on 2010-01-03
I'd like to revisit this problem if i may. I have 9.10, and /etc/crypttab IS being ignored. I thought i'd like to change the entries in crypttab to be slightly more readable, for instance, so instead of

```
sda1_crypt /dev/disk/by-uuid/...
```

I want something like

```
swap /dev/disk/by-uuid/...
```

And I modify /etc/fstab accordingly as well to use the new dev/mapper name. Unfortunately after rebooting, I still get prompted by grub (or is it something else?) for the passphrase for **sda1_crypt**, and what's worse, the swap is not mounted (I figure this is cos i've changed fstab. Ok, fine)!

So... it appears that just changing crypttab is not enough. Something else needs to be **informed** that there has been a change. My question is, what is this "something else", and how do u inform it? :confused:

---

### Post by macrowiz49 on 2010-03-25
It doesn't like the underscore. Try removing it.

---

