---
title: "Two 10.04 mysteries"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bowserdog on 2010-05-08
Twice I've downloaded the 10.04 (amd-64) iso.  I've burned both a CD ROM & a DVD, using different iso image downloads.  Both have fine (identical) md5 hash signatures.  Both hashes are exactly what Ubuntu documentation says they should be.  I've installed Ubuntu 8.10, 9.04, and 9.10 before.  But repeated tries to boot from the iso show that neither image will bring up a &quot;normal&quot; boot screen to let me select checking CD ROM contents or installing.  Both immediately go into showing an obscured keyboard and a person(?)  Both then fail, notifying me &quot;The installer encountered an unrecoverable error.  A desktop session will now be run so that you may investigate the problem or try installing again.&quot;  (I still haven't figured what this &quot;unrecoverable error&quot; is.)  The subsequent &quot;desktop session&quot; installation seems to work. I wonder if I'm trying to use the wrong iso image here.  This behavior is repeatable.  All my previous Ubuntu installations (amd64) .exhibited a &quot;normal&quot; boot screen and worked perfectly.  I am also having a second &quot;mystery&quot; problem while trying to install sun Java.  I need Sun Java to use the Sun Netbeans IDE.  I have previously started by by installing the sun Java JRE: &quot;sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jre&quot;.  It always worked previously.  Only it fails under my brand-spanking-new Lucid(?) 10.04.  Its error message says &quot;Package sun-java6-jre is not available, but is referenced by another package.  This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or is only available from another source.  E:  Package sun-java6-jre has no installation candidate.&quot;  So sun distributes a linux script for installing its jre:  jdk-6u20-nb-6_8-linux-ml.sh.  Hoping it might work, I tried it - but got this error message: &quot;cannot run sh jdk-6u20-nb-linux-ml.sh&quot;.  It fails during unpacking with &quot;/tmp/.nbi-4053348.tmp/jre6i14-linux-i586.bin not found.&quot;  Investigation revealed /tmp has no .nbi* directories whatsoever.  Trying several other alternatives also led to other dead ends.  I was starting to suspect the multiverse repository wasn't enabled, but Ubuntu documentation told me that in 10.04 the multiverse is enabled by default.  I tried reading /etc/apt/sources.list to verify that, but it was beyond my depth.  It sure SEEMS to be enabled.  So far my best guess is that the sun install script won't work in Lucid.  This may be the case.  I would sure appreciate some suggestions!

---

