---
title: "8.10 - Firefox crashed, no longer loads"
date: 2008-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LinerJoe on 2008-11-13
All,

I'm running Ibex, and after a java lockup (using Cisco Secure ACS web interface) and FORCE QUIT of Firefox, Firefox will no longer load.

When attempting to run firefox from a shell, here's the output:

$ firefox
/usr/lib/firefox-3.0.3/firefox: symbol lookup error: /usr/lib/xulrunner-1.9.0.3/libxul.so: undefined symbol: sqlite3_prepare_v2

I have completely removed Firefox and reinstalled.  I have re-installed all of the packages I could find which are related to xulrunner.  I have also re-install the sqlite packages.  I'm at a loss here.

Epiphany fails with the same error, so this is definitely an issue with gecko loading.  Unfortunately Epiphany w/ webkit backend and Opera both have issues with several of our internal applications, so I don't have many choices here.

I have searched for this particular error and didn't find anything which resolved my issues.

Thanks!

joe

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-13
Reinstalling firefox didn't repair the poroblem, because you didn't remove the profile directory. To remove the directory go to Places-->home Folder and press Ctrl-h, this will show all the hidden files and directories, click on .moailla-->Firefox-->xxxxxxx.default create a copy of your bookmarks, then delete the .mozilla directory. It will be recreated when you start firefox.

xxxxxxx.default will be a ranodm string of numbers and letters.

Jim

---

### Post by LinerJoe on 2008-11-13
I actually did that already, although I removed the .mozilla directory again.  The only difference is that I do get an Import settings dialog box, but after I click next it closes with the same error.

joe

---

### Post by philinux on 2008-11-13
I think the problem lies here.
sqlite3_prepare_v2
Not sure of a fix though.

What about

firefox -safe-mode

---

### Post by LinerJoe on 2008-11-13
I agree that it would seem to be related to the sqlite, but I haven't been to figure out what fixes it.

firefox -safe-mode ends in the same error.

$ firefox -safe-mode
/usr/lib/firefox-3.0.3/firefox: symbol lookup error: /usr/lib/xulrunner-1.9.0.3/libxul.so: undefined symbol: sqlite3_prepare_v2


joe

---

### Post by hisumg on 2010-10-04
I try to answer your question, thought it is seems too late.
 
My firefox was good when I add the sqlite3 lib to the /etc/ld.so.conf
 
the content of the ld.so.conf was :
/usr/local/iib/
/usr/lib/qt-3.3/lib
/usr/local/sqlite3/lib
 
so I deleted the last line "/usr/local/sqlite3/lib"
 
and the firefox can restart now.

---

