---
title: "11.10 Firefox XML Parsing Error"
date: 2012-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Cobraswordx on 2012-02-03
Ok so I just installed Ubuntu 11.10, I click on firefox so I can check my mail and I get this message:


XML PARSING ERROR: NOT WELL-FORMED
LOCATION: CHROME://BROWSER/CONTENT/BROWSER.XUL
LINE NUMBER 2295, COLUMN 9:


Okay so how do I fix this?

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2012-02-03
Interesting. Try removing firefox and then installing it again, then post back here. Preferable you would open up a terminal and do it that way, but you can use the Software Center too. If you do decide to use the terminal, here are the exact commands you should use:```
sudo apt-get purge firefox
sudo apt-get install firefox
```

P.S. Thunderbird is better for mail ;)

---

### Post by Cobraswordx on 2012-02-03
Hey THANKS :], sorry for the late response, I posted this before going to work. I just tried Sudo apt-get purge firefox and got this reponse

READING PACKAGE LISTS... ERROR!
E: ENCOUNTERED A SECTION WITH NO PACKAGE: HEADER
E: PROBLEM WITH MERGELIST /VAR/LIB/APT/LISTS/ARCHIVE.UBUNTU.COM_UBUNTU_DISTS_ONETRIC_UNIVERSE_BINARY-I386_PACKAGES
E: THE PACKAGE LISTS OR STATUS FILE COULD NOT BE PARSED OR OPENED.

---

### Post by Cobraswordx on 2012-02-03
Sorry for the double post, I restarted and tried again, the purge worked but upon trying to install it did this instead

The Terminal responded with 

"gr33d@gr33d-desktop:~$ sudo apt-get install firefox
[sudo] password for gr33d: ******
E: dpkg was interrupted, you must manually run 'sudo dpkg --configure -a' to correct the problem. 
gr33d@gr33d-desktop:~$"

---

