---
title: "14.04 file-roller cannot open rar files"
date: 2020-04-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pepito445 on 2020-04-11
Hello.
Using Ubuntu 14.04.6 LTS x86_64
And this version of file-roller : file-roller 3.10.2.1, Copyright © 2001-2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

The problem is that i cannot use GUI to open or extract .rar files. The "archive manager" won't recognize the .rar files"
The error i get is generic: "An error ocurred while extracting files."

unrar (the nonfree version) is installed.
At one point i installed unrar-free but now unrar-free is uninstalled as i thought it could interfere with unrar .
I am able to create .rar files with file-roller.
And i am able to view or extract .rar files created with file-roller . 
So the issue is that i cannot extract some rar files. However command line works.

unrar e file.rar

My guess is that there is an issue in the libraries between file-roller and unrar . file-roller should be able to know that unrar is installed but it is not the case and i don't know what to do to solve it.

I tried:
reinstalling unrar , unrar-free , file-roller
download file-roller source , configure, compile and install (it installed but same issue)
installing xarchiver (has the same issue basically, it says: "Archive format is not recognized!")

I was thinking of maybe editing file-roller source to solve this but i don't know where to start, also it is likely a very stupid error like missing a link somewhere.

Meanwhile i created a custom script and .desktop so it is easier to  extract files and it works. Also freeware software "B1 Free archiver" works as  expected.

Hope any of you can help.

---

### Post by pepito445 on 2020-04-11
So given that some , but not all, rar files are the ones that cannot be viewed by file-roller , i tried creating file with file-roller and it seems that it creates like this:

Details: RAR 4

And the target RAR files which i had issues are:
Details: RAR 5, encrypted headers

So the issue is something more specific to RAR 5 type of files not being read by file-roller.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2020-04-11
pepito445; Hello -

Are you aware ?
> 
 Ubuntu 14.04 LTS (Trusty Tahr) was the 20th release of Ubuntu. !End-of-life was April 25th, 2019. Paid support (ESM) is available.



As such - let us not beat on a dead horse :D

-Good things also end-

---

### Post by pepito445 on 2020-04-15
Hello,
yes, i'm aware. I hoped to be able to modify file-roller behaviour by configuration files without needing to upgrade system.

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2020-04-15
Hello,

have you tried 7zip? If I recall correctly it has many options including rar.

Regards!

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-15
> **pepito445 said:**
> Hello,
yes, i'm aware. I hoped to be able to modify file-roller behaviour by configuration files without needing to upgrade system.

No, you have to upgrade. There are remote attacks that haven't been patched because your release is out of support.
And FYI, file-roller is just a front-end. It uses several other software under the hood, RAR is one of them. So, you need an up-to-date RAR, not the front-end, and you CAN'T update RAR because there are no software repositories for 14.04 to install software from.

Do yourself a favor and do all of us a favor as well - obsolete OSes without security updates are dangerous for the user and for the community because they can be used for nefarious purposes - and upgrade to a supported release ASAP.

---

