---
title: "Nvidia Twinview second monitor works erratically"
date: 2008-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jacob111 on 2008-05-13
I have spend so many hours trying to find people on these forums working on the exact same issue, but with little headway.

I use a nVidia geForce Go 7900 card on a Dell Inspiron e1705.  I'm using Hardy now but the issue was identical on Gutsy.  I have two methods for setting up Twinview after plugging in the second monitor, and each has a problem:

-1. Open up the nVidia control panel ( # sudo nvidia settings) and press the "detect displays" button.  Usually nothing will happen until I press that button several more times, at which point the second monitor will show up.  Sometimes it will detect it properly and let me set it to 1280x1024 and sometimes it will only let it be set to 800x600 (and then I press the button again until it detects it properly).  The number of times I need to press "detect displays" until it (1) finds the monitor and (2) detects it correctly is, for all I can tell, completely random (ranges from like 1 to 50 times).

The problem with this method is (like many have described) the desktop is stretched across both monitors, so fullscreen windows actually go across both monitors.

-2. The second method is to just keep restarting X (ctrl+alt+backspace).  This is a pain to keep doing, but eventually, just like repeatedly pressing "detect displays", it will detect both monitors and set up a peachy dual-monitor setup where each monitor is treated separately, so maximized windows only fill one screen.  But this can take forever, and I have homework to do.  Just like pressing "detect displays", the number of times to restart X before getting it to work seems completely random.  Sometimes it detects both on restart, but again, sets the extra monitor to 800x600.

Any idea why this happens?  Computers are deterministic, meaning something has to change which triggers where or not the second monitor is detected, but I have no idea what it is.  Any help is appreciated.

Here's my xorg.conf

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Tue Mar  4 20:24:34 UTC 2008

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "evdev"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Name" "Logitech USB Gaming Mouse"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/by-id/usb-Logitech_USB_Gaming_Mouse-event-mouse"
    Option         "Buttons" "8"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5 7 8"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Synaptics Touchpad"
    Driver         "synaptics"
    Option         "SendCoreEvents" "true"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto-dev"
    Option         "HorizEdgeScroll" "0"
	## added to enable circular scrolling
    Option         "CircularScrolling" "on"
    Option         "CircScrollTrigger" "3"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Sharp"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 75.0
    VertRefresh     60.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Configured Video Device"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    Option         "NoLogo" "false"
    Option         "OnDemandVBlankInterrupts" "true"
    Option         "NvAGP" "0"
    Option         "TripleBuffer" "true"
    Option         "UseEvents" "true"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "true"
    Option         "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true"
    Option         "RandRRotation" "true"
	## added to enable manual scaling
    Option         "Coolbits" "1"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce Go 7900 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Configured Video Device"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0"
EndSection

---

