---
title: "printed document is scaled, why?"
date: 2009-09-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by barna on 2009-09-30
Hi,
I have installed 9.10, and I have set up my printer Xerox Phaser 8560 successfully, in the sense that it prints. However, my docs are scaled down when printed. I have for example an A4 pdf file, which prints at a scale of about 90%. The 'Scale to fit' under the printer configuration tool --> Job options [kubuntu] does not seem to influence this.
Anybody has an idea what to check?
Thanks

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-09-30
Are you using Xerox's print driver or the provided default for that printer?

The default drivers will get ink on the page but they're hardly ideal.

I had to buy TurboPrint drivers for my Canon printer. It prints borderless photos and behaves exactly as you'd expect. Even to printable DVDs (a tough test).

Check Xerox's web and see if they have a downloadable driver, or check for your Xerox on TurboPrint's web.

---

### Post by barna on 2009-10-01
I tried the PPD which I have been using under Ubuntu 7.10 (slightly different from the current one), and which worked perfectly under the old system. The same result: the document is scaled down.
These lines indicate that the filter foomatic-rip is used (?), can it be that this is the responsible for the buggy printout?

```

*cupsFilter:    "application/vnd.cups-postscript 100 foomatic-rip"
*cupsFilter:    "application/vnd.cups-pdf 0 foomatic-rip"
*cupsFilter:    "application/vnd.apple-pdf 25 foomatic-rip"
*%pprRIP:        foomatic-rip other

```

Should I file a bug report somewhere? Where?
Thanks

---

### Post by barna on 2009-10-01
Digging more into the details: in the multi-step conversion process when printing a pdf file, there is a 1st stage intermediate file
```

/var/spool/cups/tmp/foomatic-l26BoC

```
which seems to be a pdf file:
```

%PDF-1.4
%^P1^P2^P3^P4
% This file was generated by pdftopdf
%%PDFTOPDFNumCopies : 1
%%PDFTOPDFCollate : false

```

It seems that the mentioned pdftopdf filter is coming with cups: /usr/lib/cups/filter/pdftopdf
Looking at this intermediate pdf file:
- It has a papersize A4, as it should
- However, the graphics is scaled down already here, so it must be pdftopdf which makes this problem.

Any comments on this?

Thanks

---

### Post by barna on 2009-10-01
Further news: I have edited /etc/cups/printers.conf, and changed the line
'Option scaling 99' (99 being the highest value which I could set in the KDE printer config gui) to 'Option scaling 100', then restarted cups.
As a result, I got a slightly larger printed output... So it must be a scaling bug in one of the cups filters (probably pdftopdf, but also in others, because postscript files are also printed out in a too small scale)

```

DefaultPrinter b1-1006-tek>
Info Xerox Phaser 8560
Location Asacusa office
MakeModel Xerox Phaser 8560 Foomatic/Postscript (recommended)
DeviceURI lpd://b1-1006-tek.cern.ch/b1-1006-tek
State Idle
StateTime 1254403198
Type 8400924
Filter application/vnd.cups-raw 0 -
Filter application/vnd.cups-postscript 100 foomatic-rip
Filter application/vnd.cups-pdf 0 foomatic-rip
Accepting Yes
Shared Yes
JobSheets none none
QuotaPeriod 0
PageLimit 0
KLimit 0
OpPolicy default
ErrorPolicy retry-job
Option media iso_a4_210x297mm
Option prettyprint True
Option scaling 100
Attribute marker-colors none,none,none,none,none,none
Attribute marker-levels -75,-75,-75,-75,73,-3
Attribute marker-names Genuine Xerox Solid Ink Cyan, Phaser 8560/8560MFP, P/N 108R00723,Genuine Xerox Solid Ink Magenta, Phaser 8560/8560MFP, P/N 108R00724,Genuine Xerox Solid Ink Yellow, Phaser 8560/8560MFP, P/N 108R00725,Genuine Xerox Solid Ink Black, Phaser 8560/8560MFP, P/N 108R00727,Standard-Capacity Maintenance Kit, Phaser 8500/8550/8560/8560MFP, P/N 108R00675,Waste Tray, Phaser 8500 Series, P/N 109R00754
Attribute marker-types solidWax,solidWax,solidWax,solidWax,cleanerUnit,wasteInk
Attribute marker-change-time 1254403198
</Printer>


```

---

### Post by Narayana on 2009-10-05
Hi I know i am just a beginner.. but are you sure yours is not a problem with Evince?  Possibly the print settings in evince are set to 90%?  Did you try printing the same pdf file with say, Xpdf?

---

### Post by barna on 2009-10-05
I printed from the command line, using lpr. 
You can follow up this issues here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/440399](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/kdebase/+bug/440399)
After making an update a few days ago, and reinstalling the printer from scratcn, the debated Scaling option disappeared from the /etc/cups/printers.conf file, but a JobSheets option, or something similar appeared, which caused lpr to exit without printing. I had to remove this line manually from /etc/cups/printers.conf, now it prints correctly, on the right scale.

---

### Post by arunasr on 2010-01-03
Short solution
Adjust filter costs in /usr/share/cups/mime/mime.convs from 66 to 10

application/pdf                 application/vnd.cups-postscript 10      pdftops
application/postscript          application/vnd.cups-postscript 10      pstops

Long story
Same problem here, was driving me mad. It started after upgrade from 8.10 to 9.04. At first I thought it is my printer driver, however, hand-craftet PS file which I made today for calibrating the printer printed perfectly when I invoked the printer filters directly by hand. Turned up the cups debug and discovered that to print simple PS file it uses the filter chain 

pstopdf->pdftopdf->cpdftops->[printer filter]

This is due to the total cost of this whole chain being cheaper than direct application/postcript conversion to vnd.cups-postcript

Without much faffing about, I just lowered the cost of the PS and PDF conversions to corresponding CUPS versions and my printer scaling is back to normal for PS as well as printing from the Open Office.

Obviously there is an error somewhere within the chain that disregards "noplotfit" option (in GUI it translates into "Scale to fit" option which I have disabled), but I did not dig any deeper. Perhaps this needs to be reported as a bug to either Ubuntu or CUPS team. I am just glad I have fixed my system.

---

### Post by barna on 2010-01-06
Hi,
Thanks. I tried this, but it did not help, nothing changed.
When changing these costs to 10, and printing a valid A4 postscript file, the top of the page is cropped. I found the intermediate file
/var/spool/cups/tmp/foomatic-DS5qq7, which is a PDF file, having a page size 215.9 x 279.4 mm (i.e. smaller in height then an A4 page).

The preamble of this intermediate file said that this file was created by pdftopdf. This filter was not listed in the mime.convs file that you mentioned. However, I found this filter listed in /usr/share/cups/mime/pdftopdf.convs. I have increased the cost of this filter from 22 to 522 and now voila, the top of my document is not cropped anymore. 

So I conclude that pdftopdf is buggy, and this way one can avoid its use... It has not been thoroughly tested, though, just one single trial...

Thanks a LOT for this hint!

Do I see correctly, that Apple has bought CUPS?

---

### Post by barna on 2010-01-07
I tried this with another printer (HP DeskJet F300 Series), where documents were also cropped at the top. Now only a tiny bit is cropped at the bottom... (better than before, though...)
The previous printer, where it worked nicely, was a Xerox Phaser 8560

---

