---
title: "9.10 disk / filesystem problems"
date: 2009-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by parkland on 2009-11-22
I'm having some rather troubling problems.

Quick history, installing 9.10 fresh install, i had to deal with the flashing text screen problem. Once I managed to switch monitors to rectify that, I did a fresh install, and did all the updates, and copied all my data back on to the machine. 

Playing movies, once in a while, the system kinda locks up- contents of certain windows don't show up, programs dont start, and restarting the computer results in an "filesystem not mountable" type error, followed by a bunch of "inode" error comments, and "orphan" comments, and eventually it finished and restarted and running again.

I've tested my disk, with spinrite, and it is fine. I've hooked up my backup drive and played movies directly off it, and no errors. 

Something running, or what have you, is causing ubuntu /ext4 to crash or become corrupt, or something, and it is peeing me off. I've done 4 re-installs now, and can not find what the major malfunction is...

---

### Post by Spiritof76 on 2009-11-22
Sounds like disk problems.. have you done a fsck?

---

### Post by parkland on 2009-11-25
yeah, every time it restarts. 

Also done several spinrite's.

I have a load of large 500mb+ files on there, so I guess its an ext4 problem, and I'm just going to wait and see what kind of fix is available...

On my 6th fresh install with all updates, waiting in hope..

---

