---
title: "AVM Fritzcard ISDN"
date: 2005-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hr_Niels on 2005-11-12
Hi,

I'm trying to get internet working with my fritzcard. I've searched for a long time now, but it doesn't work yet :(
The exact name of the card is: "AVM ISDN-Controller FRITZ!Card PCI v2.0"

I don't know exactly what I've done so far, because it was a little bit confused...*g*
But if I do the following (what should be the command to go online, i guess):
```
$ pon
```
I get no reply at all in the terminal. When I look in the syslog, I find:
> tcgetattr: inappropriate ioctl for device (line 917)
pppd 2.4.3 started by root, uid 0
exit

If I do this: (arcor is the name I gave for the connection)
```
$ pon arcor
```
I get (in the syslog again):
> pppd 2.4.3 started by root, uid 0
Can't get terminal parameter: input/output error
exit

I'am not sure what is important (and responsible for the result), but here are a few file-contents:
- /etc/ppp/peers/arcor:
> # This optionfile was generated by pppconfig 2.3.10. 
# 
#
hide-password 
noauth
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/arcor"
debug
/dev/ttyS1
57600
defaultroute
noipdefault 
user "<myUsername>"
remotename arcor
ipparam arcor

usepeerdns

- /etc/ppp/peers/provider:
> # example configuration for a dialup connection authenticated with PAP or CHAP
#
# This is the default configuration used by pon(1) and poff(1).
# See the manual page pppd(8) for information on all the options.

# MUST CHANGE: replace myusername@realm with the PPP login name given to
# your by your provider.
# There should be a matching entry with the password in /etc/ppp/pap-secrets
# and/or /etc/ppp/chap-secrets.
#user "myusername@realm"
user "<myUsername>"

# MUST CHANGE: replace ******** with the phone number of your provider.
# The /etc/chatscripts/pap chat script may be modified to change the
# modem initialization string.
connect "/usr/sbin/chat -v -f /etc/chatscripts/pap -T <theNumber>"

# Serial device to which the modem is connected.
#/dev/modem
/dev/ppp

# Speed of the serial line.
115200

# Assumes that your IP address is allocated dynamically by the ISP.
noipdefault
# Try to get the name server addresses from the ISP.
usepeerdns
# Use this connection as the default route.
defaultroute

# Makes pppd "dial again" when the connection is lost.
persist

# Do not ask the remote to authenticate.
noauth

I used this howto: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com//IsdnHowto](https://wiki.ubuntu.com//IsdnHowto)
..ok, and a few others, but I startet with this one *g*

Has anybody an idea what I've done wrong or what can I do to get this working?
Any help is appreciated :)

Thanks in advance
greetings
Hr_Niels

---

### Post by Hr_Niels on 2005-11-13
anybody?

---

### Post by sundancer on 2005-11-13
Hi,

i think the problem lies in your /etc/ppp/peers/arcor:
```

[snip]
/dev/ttyS1
[snap]

```

The device is not correct. Don't know what devices are created by misdn, but with hisax there were /dev/ttyI* -devices.

Perhaps you should read 
[http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=5018&pp=10&highlight=isdn]("http://www.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=5018&pp=10&highlight=isdn")
HTH
Jan

---

### Post by Hr_Niels on 2005-11-13
Thanks for your reply.

If I do the first thing which is mentioned in the thread:
```
$ sudo modprobe hisax type=20
```
I get:
> FATAL: Error inserting hisax (lib/modules/2.6.12.9.386/kernel/drivers/isdn/hisax/hisax.ko): no such device
:/

Unfortunatly I have to leave here now and will be back on next friday. So I have no opportunity to make further tests until then :(
I'll let you know when I'm back.

greetings
Hr_Niels

---

