---
title: "11.10 Compiz High CPU &amp; VM Usage"
date: 2011-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tribble222 on 2011-11-01
After running my machine for a couple days without restarting, compiz and xorg seem to go crazy.

Currently compiz is at a constant 40-55% cpu usage without anything happening. xorg is staying around 20-30% constantly too.

Compiz is using only 187MB ram, but a whopping 1.1GB virtual memory.

Any time I click on anything my hard drive activity spikes and the action is very delayed, like compiz is needing to read from swap a lot.

Can anyone help me? Since it's not like this on reboot this feels like some sort of memory leak issue?

Thanks!

---

### Post by tribble222 on 2011-11-01
Just ran compiz --replace and everything is good again. Compiz back down to 8-10% cpu. So I guess that is a workaround, though annoying. I'd rather solve the problem.

---

### Post by tribble222 on 2011-11-05
Anyone have any ideas? It's really annoying running compiz --replace all the time. It places all my windows in the top left off the screen and I have to alt-drag them back into position every time.

---

### Post by tribble222 on 2011-11-07
Ok, I managed to solve this myself. In case anyone comes upon this post with the same problem, here's how I solved it:

I changed all the colordepths in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf to 24 bit. Both 32 and 16 bit had the problem, but 24 bit works.

I noticed a lot of errors about defaultdepth 32 which prompted me to change it.

Also, I'm using the nvidia binary driver and I added the following options at the same time, not sure if they helped or not:

    Option	   "AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
    Option	   "DisableGLXRootClipping"	"True"

Now my cpu is finally back to normal and compiz is much more responsive than it ever was before!

---

### Post by akarollil on 2011-11-18
I think I saw this too on 11.10. Thanks for the workaround. I will post if I see it again and try your workaround. But I am using nouveau rather than nvidia proprietary.

---

