---
title: "10.04 vga problems"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stevepoppers on 2010-05-13
I've been unable to connect an external monitor to my laptop running 10.04, even though the resolution and framerate are right. The monitor says something like "unsupported video settings".

In other news, I put the live cd into another computer which relies on a monitor and after the very first screen with the two logos at the bottom, the monitor decides to go to sleep. I try with another monitor and it just seems to have to feed. This is the more important problem, but I wonder if there isn't some built-in problem with 10.04.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-05-15
What type of monitor and graphics setup do you have?  Lucid in my experience has been doing quite well with all kinds of graphics, although ATI can be problematic.

I'm not sure what you mean by "two logos".  Maybe I just don't remember right, but I thought there was just the one logo during bootup, in the middle of the screen.  Which version are you using?

Also, there's a typo here somewhere, and I'm having trouble guessing what you mean: "I try with another monitor and it just seems to have to feed."  Can you clarify?

---

### Post by stevepoppers on 2010-05-15
By logos, I mean the very first screen that comes up when you put the live disc in.

The computer I'm working on right now is an HP with an HP monitor. Graphics is Nvidia Geforce 6150.

The other monitor seems to be receiving a signal from the computer under the same circumstances, but it's only black. Like it knows it's connected to something, but it's not really receiving anything. It would normally report "no signal" if that were the case.

---

