---
title: "10.04 Gnome Panel Issue"
date: 2010-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by false_chicken on 2010-05-05
I noticed that every time I logged in my network icon always moved to the middle of the top panel. Getting tired of moving it back every time I decided to remove the panel and start from scratch. But I cannot find the me menu or the shutdown/logoff/switch user menu. So I cannot rebuild the panel the way it was. How can I find these items? Or maybe restore the panel to default? Thanks.

---

### Post by wojox on 2010-05-05
User Switcher and Indicator Applet Session

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-05-05
To reset the panels. In a terminal write:

```
mkdir ~/.oldpanel
```then
```
mv ~/.gconf/apps/panel ~/.oldpanel
```then
```
*gconftool-2 --shutdown*
```finally
```
pkill gnome-panel
```

NOTE: This will completely reset your panels to the default configuration, they will look the same as if you'd done a fresh install.

---

### Post by thomasduclois on 2010-05-10
Thank you , WorMzy

---

### Post by sabrecom on 2010-05-24
Excellent, the instructions solved it for me
Thanks

---

### Post by TiloBunt on 2010-07-22
thx WorMzy, worked like a charm, after the workpaces and taskbar crashed on me.

---

### Post by watari_l on 2010-08-02
Thx it works :))

---

### Post by Super_Dork_42 on 2010-08-05
I had this problem, thanks for solving it, as it was stupid to have to restart my computer every time my router had problems and needed resetting.

---

### Post by Super_Dork_42 on 2010-08-07
Aw crud. I went to take the email icon part off and it took the sound part off, but when I tried to run those commands again, the first two failed and the second two didn't do it. How do I first undo the first two, so I can do the all again?

---

### Post by the_ebb on 2011-11-09
The commands works, but it appears I need to re-run them on each restart.

Any thoughts on adding that pkill command to the startup?

---

