---
title: "Monitor turns off after log in"
date: 2008-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Unreal_ on 2008-08-11
First time poster.

Preamble:
I have a Nvidia GeForce 7950. I am currently running Ubuntu 8.04 with dual monitors. My primary monitor is a BenQ 2200W, and a BenQ FP71E on the right.
They are running at 1680*1050 and 1280*1024 respectively.

Problem:
After I log onto unbuntu, my primary monitor switches off (No Signal Detected) and my right monitor switches to primary. I then have to go to the nvidia setting every time and enable the 2200W and set the FP71E to the right of it. Doing this every time is getting very frustrating, and I was hoping someone had a simple solution to my problem. Once i have set up EXACTLY the same settings that i had before, apply it, save the xorg file, it works. Restart pc and 2200W once again switches off.

Note: This monitor set up works fine, until after ive entered my password and username correctly then begin to log in.

---

### Post by Unreal_ on 2008-08-15
Here is my xorg.conf

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@vernadsky)  Thu Jun  5 09:26:53 UTC 2008


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "BenQ FP71E"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7950 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1280x1024_60 +1680+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0; CRT: 1280x1024 +1680+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by kdevil on 2008-09-08
I had this problem too (same resolutions as yours, too), and my metamodes were:
"CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: 1280x1024 +1680+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: NULL"

Getting rid of the "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: NULL" entry solved the problem, so if you're still having problems (it *has* been 3 weeks since you posted this) I suggest using a single metamode: setting the larger monitor to nvidia-auto-select and the smaller one to 1280x1024.

The only problem I have now is that Wine games can't go fullscreen on my primary monitor only...

---

### Post by kdevil on 2008-09-09
Oh, hey, I found a better way that fixed it for me and let me keep the metamode with the NULL screen.  The relevant part of my xorg.conf:
```

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "RenderAccel" "true"
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: 1280x1024 +1680+0; CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: NULL"
    Option         "NoTwinViewXineramaInfo" "False"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        **Modes      "nvidia-auto-select"**
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

