---
title: "8.10 Desktop on Powerbook G4"
date: 2008-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by adam35413 on 2008-12-10
I have been trying to get 8.10 to load onto my Powerbook to no avail.  When I get to the yaboot area, both the live option and the live video=ofonly option lead to a blank screen where the laptop hangs.  I tried going into live-nosplash-powerpc, but when I get into the init boot screen my laptop just sits there.  

I saw on one forum a recommendation to do modprobe on the ide_cdrom and harddrive after entering the init boot prompt area, but that had no effect.  Has anyone had any luck getting the 8.10 PPC install working?

---

### Post by 0graham0 on 2008-12-11
Hi,

I have a Powerbook G4 17" and the first couple times I booted after installing Ubuntu 8.10 it took 1-5 minutes to boot up. I did not have to enter anything special into yaboot (i just leave the prompt blank).

When ubuntu is supposed to be loading do you see a black screen with a white cursor at the top of it? Have you let your computer sit for a while?

One of my problems had to do with manually entering an ip during install, and then booting up disconnected from that network. Ubuntu was searching for the network for 1-2 minutes before timing out.

If you hit alt+f1 or alt+f2 (possibly fn+alt+f1) do you see the command line boot process?

I know all of that is a bit vauge but I hope it helps,

Graham

---

### Post by adam35413 on 2008-12-11
I now have Ubuntu 8.10 working on my computer and these are the steps I had to make to get everything working:

1. The normal live CD did not work for me.  I had to download the alternate CD to get to the install screen.

2. Once I got to the CD-ROM check stage,  the CD-ROM was not detected.  At that point I had to hit alt+F2 to get to a termnial.  At the terminal type 

modprobe ide-cdrom
modprobe ide-disk
modprobe ide-core
exit

Then hit alt-F1 to go back to the install screen.  

The steps are not exact, but it ended up working for me.

---

### Post by 0graham0 on 2008-12-11
Glad to hear you got it working. When you said trouble "loading" ubuntu, I didn't realize you were talking about installing it, sorry.

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2008-12-11
I went through about 4 versions and 2 distros on my G3 before I found one that worked right. I would suggest trying the alt install cd. If that doesn't work, try 8.04 or 7.10

---

