---
title: "8.10 freezes on splash screen til holding enter"
date: 2009-03-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by treyh on 2009-03-25
I have an hp laptop and ubuntu works without any real issues

On the splash screen the loading bar stops while bouncing back and forth until I hold the enter key down until it stops moving back and forth and starts from the left loading the full bar?

any ideas?

---

### Post by diwas on 2009-03-25
After you press enter in GRUB (ie after selecting Ubuntu to boot) press 

Ctrl+Alt+F1

and post the result.

---

### Post by sudoxe on 2009-03-29
I have the same problem, but since this guy didn't do what was told of him, I did and was able to write a little bit down.

Here it goes:
 > 
kinit: name_to_dev_t (/dev/disk/by-uuid/be07570d-3847-4fec-9a70-b8c2e6c47b3b) = dev (8,5)
kinit: trying to resume from /dev/disk/by-uuid/be07570d-3847-4fec-9a70-b8c2e6c47b3b
kinit: no resume image, doing normal boot...
 *reading files needed to boot... OK
 *Setting preliminary keymap....  (HANGS)
 *Starting basic networking...  (HANGS)


 > 
It says something about my wlan0, but it gets started as soon as it boots up... no problems there

Starting firestarter... [Fail]


---

### Post by sudoxe on 2009-03-30
bump bumpity bump bump bump

---

### Post by sudoxe on 2009-04-02
Okay, I don't think anybody knows how to fix this or have a workaround, so I'm just gonna live with it until i get a new laptop...

---

### Post by diwas on 2009-04-04
I am sorry I didnt reply in time, i couldnt use computer.

I am again sorry that i am not able to give u the solution. But, I would suggest you to start a new thread under networking sub category. I am sure you'll get help.

---

