---
title: "10.10 hangs unless typing or moving cursor"
date: 2010-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-11-14
I've used Ubuntu for a year or two on my laptop (Dell Inspiron 1440), but with the release and install of 10.10, whenever I'm not moving the cursor or typing, it freezes up. I can get it to unfreeze by typing/moving cursor usually.

I dual boot between Ubuntu and Mint and it also does this on Mint 10. 

When I would reboot, the hanging would stop for awhile, but would come back 10 - 20 minutes later. It would continue until I rebooted again. Clearly I can't use 10.10, which is a huge bummer for me. Any help would be great. 

I'm pretty lost here.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2010-11-14
One item to check is that it is not locking when attempting start a screen saver or doing power management.

Is the behavior the same if you change your power saving settings or plug the laptop in?  Try setting it up for always on and see if that changes the problem.  I know this is not a solution, but it may narrow the issue down.

---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-11-14
Yep, it's definitely not that. I don't have any powersaving things on (meaning when I close the lid, it just goes to a blank screen - also no screensaver/idle, etc). 

It'll be frozen and will unfreeze when I move the cursor (or type). When I stop, it freezes again immediately. 

I can even monitor activity on the System Monitor. There are no spikes, etc when it freezes. It just stops and then picks up again where it left off. I've never seen anything like this. 

-Eric

---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-11-17
Just thought that I'd bump this again. No new info, but I'm still stuck with the problem. Hope someone can help.

Thanks, 

Eric

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-17
Strange issue, at least for me.

What exactly happens when you say "frozen"? Does the screen turn black or you can see whatever was on your screen? What if you were playing some type of video? Does it get stucked then?

Which edition of 10.10 are you running? Desktop or Netbook?

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2010-11-17
You can also run 

```
top
```

In a terminal window and watch for processes that may be causing the issue.

---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-11-17
I'm running the desktop edition. Regular 10.10. 

When it "freezes," the screen doesn't go blank, it just stops. Everything looks normal, but whatever is running stops running. That is, until I move my mouse or type. If I'm playing a video, it's constantly choppy. Same goes for audio. 

I did the "top" bit and it all seems normal enough, though that stops too unless I'm moving the mouse, etc.

---

### Post by dopefish7590 on 2010-11-17
How much time is set before you computer is considered "Idle"?
(You can check that in System -> Preferences -> Screensaver)

You may not have any power saving or screensaver enabled, but that won't stop your computer from considering itself "Idle" after some time.

What happens when you increase this number?

---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-11-18
It's set for two hours, but happens maybe five or ten minutes after each reboot (it's different each time, but always happens).

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-18
Which graphics card is it and have you installed the proprietary drivers?

I am also interested in seeing anything in xorg.conf. It might not be directly related to the issue, please post the output of,

```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-11-18
Is it possible that I don't have an xorg.conf file? I put

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

into the terminal and got: "No such file or directory"


If I got to the X11 directory, there's no xorg.conf file. Did they do away with it for 10.10? 

Also keep in mind that I had the hanging problem with Mint 10.


In fact, it just happened now and I ran "top" from the terminal. The only program I have running is terminal and googlechrome. At the top is Xorg. Also Compiz is there. 

I've attached a screencap. 

Thanks again. Hopefully we can get this figured out.


Edit: As I was getting the screencap ready in Gimp, and uploading it, the hanging stopped. Not sure why.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-19
> Is it possible that I don't have an xorg.conf file?

Yes, modern X directly deals with all that graphics stuff. It doesn't come by default unless you yourself don't create it. And no real need to create it either.

I can find nothing in your top output. This issue is sounding really weird.

Can you try from a Live CD and see what happens? That shouldn't hang/idle. If that does this too, we'll need to search for something else.

---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-11-19
Before I installed it with the liveCD (actually thumb drive), I noticed that it was hanging in the same way, but figured that it was just a glitch that would be taken care of after the install. 

So, yes, it was there with the liveCD.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-11-19
> 
So, yes, it was there with the liveCD.

If so, I fear it is a hardware problem. That type of problem is not in my knowledge before, but I still feel it is related to the hardware some way.

Can you burn a Live CD of any previous version of Ubuntu or any other Linux distro and check your PC with that? If you've already got one, pop that in your CD drive and see if you PC still behaves the same on that.

---

### Post by sfranzyshen on 2010-11-21
try adding "clocksource=jiffies nolapic_timers" to the kernel command line
parameter.

sudo pico /etc/default/grub

change 

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

to

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nolapci_timer clocksource=jiffies"

save changes

sudo update-grub

reboot


sfranzyshen

---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-11-21
Sikander -
I also have LinuxMint 9 installed and have had past versions of both Mint and Ubuntu installed. This is the first time it's happened (and has happened in both Ubuntu 10.10 and Mint 10, so it looks like it's specific to this version). 

sfranzyshen -
Did what you said and so far (an hour or so) all is well. It seems strange that GRUB would trigger something like this, but so far so good. 

Where did you get this idea? It seems to have done the trick.

Many, many thanks. I'll wait a bit until marking this as solved, but I believe this might have fixed it. Thanks!

---

### Post by ch900 on 2010-12-26
Has there been a resolution yet?  I find the identical problem using:  10.04 LTS  special release with drivers for GMA 500 graphics chip.  2 GB memory, lots of disk space.  Computer is: ASus EeePC 1101 HAB. 

The problem is exactly as has been described in the thread.   I do notice, that sometimes I am unable to shutdown and a cold forced power down is required - I don't know if the "hang" just happens to occur when I was trying to shutdown.  (There is some evidence for this as the shutdown problem never occurs unless the computer has been operating for sometime.)  

One of my problems is I am a noob.   Processes running include:
Xorg, chrome, geyes_applet2, top, cpufreq-applet, ubuntuone-syncd, multiload-apple, syndaemon, gnome-terminal, multiload-apple, dbus-daemon, init, metacity,phy0, gnome-power-man, etc.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by sit properly on 2010-12-26
Yep, it has been solved (and I'll mark it as such shortly). 

I've been running 10.10 since the last post was made. No problems at all. 

I do remember having to do a cold shutdown several times due to the hanging. 

But sfranzyshen's solution solved it, I'm happy to say. Give it a shot. Hopefully it'll work on yours as well.

---

### Post by SGC622 on 2010-12-26
SAME THING HAPPENS TO ME!! i am running Kubuntu 10.04  and it is doing it. 
here are some of my issues

1 i try running my timer and it freezes.
2 my clock is so far behind i dont even go by it anymore, and because of it the date lags by a day
3 i cant play any flash games cause they all freeze.
4 installing a program
5 loading a web page

i also dual boot, i am running Kubuntu 10.04 and Ubuntu 10.10 and my Ubuntu is fine, which is causing me to want to give up Kubuntu for Ubuntu

---

### Post by SGC622 on 2010-12-26
> **sfranzyshen said:**
> try adding "clocksource=jiffies nolapic_timers" to the kernel command line
parameter.

sudo pico /etc/default/grub

change 

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

to

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nolapci_timer clocksource=jiffies"

save changes

sudo update-grub

reboot


sfranzyshen

ok i have been using linux for 2 years, but i dont know how to add that to the kernel command line, can you elaborate please?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-12-27
> **SGC622 said:**
> ok i have been using linux for 2 years, but i dont know how to add that to the kernel command line, can you elaborate please?

Read instructions. Follow instructions:

```
sudo pico /etc/default/grub
``` etc.

---

### Post by rpremuz on 2011-05-10
I had to use the workaround suggested by **sfranzyshen** to fix booting of Ubuntu 11.04 on a Toshiba nb300 netbook.
The kernel is Linux 2.6.38-9-generic #43-Ubuntu SMP Thu Apr 28 15:25:15 UTC 2011 i686 i686 i386 GNU/Linux.

So, in /etc/default/grub I set
```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nolapic_timer clocksource=jiffies"
```
and then run
```
sudo update-grub
```
and restart.

BTW, there was a typo in franzyshen's post: first it says 
**nolapic_timer**, which is the correct option name, and then 
**nolapci_timer**, which is incorrect.

HTH
-- rpr.

---

### Post by grey1beard on 2013-01-28
This also cured my Toshiba Satellite A30 running 12.04LTS from the same symptoms.
Too late, I discovered I didn't need a new HDD, nor a new CPU, nor even a new bios battery !
Many thanks,
John

---

### Post by rpremuz on 2013-01-28
grey1beard, which CPU does your Toshiba Satellite A30 have? (You can find that info in the **/proc/cpuinfo** file or in **System Monitor** application.)
Also, please provide the kernel version (**uname -a**).

According to [https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20172](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=20172) this issue was fixed in recent Linux kernels (v. 3.*) at least for Intel Atom processors.

-- rpr.

---

