---
title: "NTFS Partition disappeared"
date: 2007-09-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Phelan on 2007-09-26
I am using feisty and setup my ntfs partition with ntfs-3g...it's been working great, but as of late it decided to disappear.  I opened up file manager, which took about 30 seconds to open instead of 1-2 sdc...this was after trying to get a DVD to play (had to install codec), and now my\ ntfs partition is gone.  I did a search on here and cant find anything relating to this problem in feisty, and NO i do not know how to mount the drive..and yes I have rebooted.

any ideas?

---

### Post by tszanon on 2007-09-26
> **Phelan said:**
> I am using feisty and setup my ntfs partition with ntfs-3g...it's been working great, but as of late it decided to disappear.  I opened up file manager, which took about 30 seconds to open instead of 1-2 sdc...this was after trying to get a DVD to play (had to install codec), and now my\ ntfs partition is gone.  I did a search on here and cant find anything relating to this problem in feisty, and NO i do not know how to mount the drive..and yes I have rebooted.

any ideas?
Let's start by the most common issues. Please post your /etc/fstab. In the terminal, type:
```
cat /etc/fstab
```
Your ntfs partition should be there. Then, after you post it here, we will check:
1. if the mounting point exists;
2. if we can mount it manually.

---

### Post by Phelan on 2007-09-28
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=23667950-d123-423e-ad5a-8d969d1ad53a / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=eebe61da-7867-4e69-9b46-4532e0761e2f none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/COLE ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

---

### Post by tszanon on 2007-09-28
> **Phelan said:**
> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=23667950-d123-423e-ad5a-8d969d1ad53a / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=eebe61da-7867-4e69-9b46-4532e0761e2f none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
**/dev/sda1 /media/COLE ntfs-3g** defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
There it is. Now let's check if the mounting point exists:
```
ls /media/COLE
```
If it does not exist, create it:
```
sudo mkdir /media/COLE
```

Then, try to mount it manually:
```
sudo su
mount /dev/sda1
ls /media/COLE
exit
```
If you see the contents of the ntfs partition, then it's ok. If any error occurs, then other 2 things come to mind:
- the ntfs partition isn't sda1, for some reason;
- you will need to check what's the UUID of that partition and write it in /etc/fstab, like /dev/sda5.

Please post any error messages here.

---

### Post by Phelan on 2007-09-28
Did what you said, no error messages...didnt appear.  Got irritated, headed to bed and shut my laptop off.  Just turned it on, and bam there is my NTFS partition!  Thanks!

---

### Post by tszanon on 2007-09-28
> **Phelan said:**
> Did what you said, no error messages...didnt appear.  Got irritated, headed to bed and shut my laptop off.  Just turned it on, and bam there is my NTFS partition!  Thanks!
Hehehe, computers behave in a funny way. :)
Good to know it's solved. Please edit the thread and mark it as SOLVED, so everybody can benefit, ok?

---

### Post by mlandoni on 2008-04-23
Hi,

I have a similar problem. I sort of know what to do, but I'd love to hear someone's opinion first.

PREMISE
I had an HP laptop with a main Windows XP NTFS partition, and a FAT32 recovery partition (which allows me to boot and restore the PC to factory settings). I split the NTFS partition into two parts, one for Win and the other for my documents.

One day, I got fed up with WinXP and installed Ubuntu 7.10 Gutsy (64bit!) and everything went smooth. The NTFS partition with my documents was recognized even by the live CD. I was the happiest man on Earth. At this point, I had 4 partitions:
* In place of the WinXP NTFS partition, one Ext3 partition with Linux and one swap partition.
* My documents - NTFS
* The recovery partition - FAT32

THE CRIME
Yesterday I said: ah, let's try to see what happens if I boot from the recovery partition (in theory, it should work by pressing F11 at startup; in practice it did not work when I had WinXP installed, but now I have it as an option in the Grub boot menu!). So I asked Grub to boot its nemesis. I was pretty sure that nothing bad would happen. The first thing that appears is a window "Preparing Hard Disk". Geeeee! The next screen was a message like "I am going to wipe your HD clean -- <OK>" without a "Cancel" button. I panicked and I pushed the ON/OFF button.

THE AFTERMATH
"My documents", aka /media/sda5, is not visible anymore. I can see it from GParted (attached screenshot) and if I do cat /etc/fstab I get:

```
# /dev/sda5
UUID=12DEC0D9AAF7A929 /media/sda5     ntfs    defaults,umask=007,gid=46 0       1
```

I tried to manually mount it (btw, thanks for everything above, really useful for an illiterate like me) and I got the following message:

```
mount /dev/sda5
$LogFile indicates unclean shutdown (0, 0)
Failed to mount '/dev/sda5': Operation not supported
Mount is denied because NTFS is marked to be in use. Choose one action:

Choice 1: If you have Windows then disconnect the external devices by
          clicking on the 'Safely Remove Hardware' icon in the Windows
          taskbar then shutdown Windows cleanly.

Choice 2: If you don't have Windows then you can use the 'force' option for
          your own responsibility. For example type on the command line:

            mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda5 /media/sda5 -o force

    Or add the option to the relevant row in the /etc/fstab file:

            /dev/sda5 /media/sda5 ntfs-3g defaults,force 0 0
```

So now I suppose that I should force a mount, save everything on some other disk, and then clean it up with a format? or is there a better way to restore it? (Quicker? Safer? Both quicker and safer?).

Unfortunately my last backup was a couple of months ago so it would really suck to lose my documents.

Thanks a lot for the attention!

Mattia

---

### Post by mlandoni on 2008-04-23
Oh, OK... I found out about NTFSfix.

* I tried to mount read-only, and it did not work:
```
mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda5 /media/sda5 -o ro

fuse: mount failed: Device or resource busy
FUSE mount point creation failed
Unmounting /dev/sda5 (Archivio)
```

* I tried to run ntfsfix /dev/sda5 and:
```

Mounting volume... Error opening partition device : Device or resource busy
Failed to startup volume : Device or resource busy
FAILED
Attempting to correct errors... Error opening partition device : Device or resource busy
FAILED
Failed to startup volume : Device or resource busy
Volume is corrupt. You should run chkdsk.
```

Should I start to be worried?

---

### Post by mlandoni on 2008-04-23
OK, so I tried some more and made it, but in a bad way. I'd love to know if there's a better way.

The solution was to go back into the HP Recovery thing and start a nondestructive recovery. After that, quit normally, and restart Linux.

From Linux, since the NTFS log was not corrupted anymore, I could delete Windows and all the new files from my NTFS drive.

I understand that NTFS is all but transparent, so it might be that the best way to deal with these problems is to put the laptop's hard disk in a USB box and read it with a Windows computer. Which brings me to the next question:

Is there a filesystem that I can safely use and that can be safely shared between Linux and Windows and that supports files larger than 4 Gb? (Probably not).

---

