---
title: "14.04 - Not enough free disk space"
date: 2015-02-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by YMS_1975 on 2015-02-27
Hello,

I'm getting an error message on my computer when I try to do software updates that reads : **Not enough free disk space. The upgrade needs a total of 163 M free space on disk '/boot'. Please free at least an additional 56.5 M of disk space on '/boot'. Empty your trash and remove temporary packages of former installations using 'sudo apt-get clean'.**

I've tried running the sudo apt-get clean but it doesn't seem to do anything. In the top right hand corner, there's a red circle with a white horizontal line running through it. If I click the red circle, it reads : **An error occured, please run Package Manager from the right-click menu or apt-get in a terminal to see what is wrong. The error message was: 'Error:BrokenCount>0'. This usually means that your installed packages have unmet dependencies.**

If I type in "apt-get" as I'm instructed to, this is the output : 

[B]yousaf@yousaf-FX6801:~$ apt-get
apt 1.0.1ubuntu2 for amd64 compiled on Oct 28 2014 20:55:14
Usage: apt-get [options] command
       apt-get [options] install|remove pkg1 [pkg2 ...]
       apt-get [options] source pkg1 [pkg2 ...]

apt-get is a simple command line interface for downloading and
installing packages. The most frequently used commands are update
and install.

Commands:
   update - Retrieve new lists of packages
   upgrade - Perform an upgrade
   install - Install new packages (pkg is libc6 not libc6.deb)
   remove - Remove packages
   autoremove - Remove automatically all unused packages
   purge - Remove packages and config files
   source - Download source archives
   build-dep - Configure build-dependencies for source packages
   dist-upgrade - Distribution upgrade, see apt-get(8)
   dselect-upgrade - Follow dselect selections
   clean - Erase downloaded archive files
   autoclean - Erase old downloaded archive files
   check - Verify that there are no broken dependencies
   changelog - Download and display the changelog for the given package
   download - Download the binary package into the current directory

Options:
  -h  This help text.
  -q  Loggable output - no progress indicator
  -qq No output except for errors
  -d  Download only - do NOT install or unpack archives
  -s  No-act. Perform ordering simulation
  -y  Assume Yes to all queries and do not prompt
  -f  Attempt to correct a system with broken dependencies in place
  -m  Attempt to continue if archives are unlocatable
  -u  Show a list of upgraded packages as well
  -b  Build the source package after fetching it
  -V  Show verbose version numbers
  -c=? Read this configuration file
  -o=? Set an arbitrary configuration option, eg -o dir::cache=/tmp
See the apt-get(8), sources.list(5) and apt.conf(5) manual
pages for more information and options.
                       This APT has Super Cow Powers.
yousaf@yousaf-FX6801:~$ ^C
yousaf@yousaf-FX6801:~$[/B]

I did a search online and came across a thread that I thought might help me. I tried the following commands after reading those threads but it still gives me the same error.
I tried the following commands : 

1) sudo apt-get upgrade
2) sudo aptitude full-upgrade

Neither of these commands seems to resolve the problem. I know I have more than enough disk space. I have a 1 TB hard drive and 971.6 GB are free. So why is this error message being produced?

---

### Post by YMS_1975 on 2015-02-27
I read another thread online, and sudo apt-get -f seemed to have fixed the problem.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-02-27
I see you have a separate /boot partition which is not a good idea unless you have either LVM partitions, or you chose encryption when you installed the OS.

Lets see the output of ```
ls /boot | grep vmlinuz
```which will show us how many kernels you have installed on your system; it is usually excess kernels that fill /boot and cause this problem, but since 14.04 the ```
sudo apt-get autoremove
``` command should be able to get rid of any excess, so is worth trying.  In normal systems only the two most recent kernels are needed, the latest to run in most situations, and the previous as a backup.

---

