---
title: "8.10 - Mouse/Touchpad Clicking Issue"
date: 2008-11-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mrb88 on 2008-11-02
Upgraded from 8.04 to 8.10 and found that the clicking of the mouse or touchpad (this is a laptop) no longer works. If I boot into Gnome and click Applications, it stays highlighted. If I try to click and hold a window to drag it around, nothing happens. Really don't want to have to reformat. Any ideas? I also have a hardware error when booting into the new kernel (not with the old one), but I'm not sure how to get it offhand. If someone could tell me where the kernel log would be, that would help. Might be related. This problem does not happen when I'm in the 8.04 kernel, only the 8.10 kernel.

System:

Dell XPS M170 Laptop
Pentium M 2GHz
2GB RAM
80GB HD

---

### Post by mrb88 on 2008-11-02
Fixed it. Boot into failsafe mode in the root console and run:

dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

---

### Post by mrb88 on 2008-11-03
This didn't fix it.

I even reformatted and reinstalled 8.10. Still not working, per above.

---

### Post by mrb88 on 2008-11-03
Bump

---

### Post by StormTrooperVII on 2008-11-07
I have a similar issue on an hp compaq 8710w laptop.  I have an external monitor and keyboard, so at the same time I upgraded I also plugged in two mice, one for the monitor/kb, one for if i'm using the laptop monitor/kb.  I thought it might be correlated with having two mice, but now that I see that someone else is having the same problem, I don't think it is.

Probably a bug somewhere. I don't see the issue immediately, but once it starts happening the only option is to restart x (ctrl-alt-backspace) or to reboot completely (terminal "reboot" cmd).  Alt-tab still works, just mouse doesn't.  If you find a fix, please post here

---

### Post by blazerw on 2008-11-07
> **StormTrooperVII said:**
> but once it starts happening the only option is to restart x (ctrl-alt-backspace) or to reboot completely (terminal "reboot" cmd).  Alt-tab still works, just mouse doesn't.

I think your issue and the thread owner's issue are different. The thread owner sounds like he can't get the mouse buttons to work at all. You sound like yours works for a while. For what it's worth, I have your problem. It can be hours before my mouse buttons stop working. Some more information in no particular order:
1. Switching to another user, the other user's session is working fine, switch back, my session is still broken.
2. I have 2 monitors and am using Xinerama.
3. I use synergy to share the mouse with a laptop next to my PC. Buttons still work on the laptop when they don't on the PC with the SAME mouse.
4. Nvidia proprietary driver.
5. Dell Ubuntu PC, 530n I believe.
6. Logging out works and back in fixes the issue. You can log out by using "Ctrl-Alt-Tab" to switch to the panel with your fast user switcher applet, tab to the applet and press enter to get its menu and choose log out. You can also "Alt-Tab" to each application and use "Alt-F4" to close them one at a time.

---

### Post by StormTrooperVII on 2008-11-07
> **blazerw said:**
> It can be hours before my mouse buttons stop working. 
2. I have 2 monitors and am using Xinerama.
4. Nvidia proprietary driver.


Agreed with the above.  forgot to mention i'm using xinerama.  Haven't tried the log in/out thing.

Also I'm using nvidia-glx-173.  I couldn't get 177 to work right with two monitors for some reason, it wasn't autodetecting, but thats a different issue i think

---

### Post by blacky667 on 2008-11-07
similar problem here: after some random time mouse buttons stop working (can still move the mouse cursor but clicks are ignored)

found a bug description with work around which helped in my case: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/261995](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/261995)

in short: uncomment the InputDevice sections in /etc/X11/xorg.conf (if they are commented out by update-manager) and add the following:
Section "ServerFlags"
    Option "AutoAddDevices" "false"
EndSection

---

### Post by blazerw on 2008-11-13
The workaround didn't work for me.

Additionally, as an experiment, I tried running without Synergy (mouse & keyboard sharing), but I still lost mouse functionality.
Interesting note, this seems to happen every day around 2PM. Today was 1:48PM, other day about 2:15PM. May just be luck.

My next experiment will be disabling Xinerama and trying to work with just one monitor for a day.

---

### Post by AntonOlsen on 2008-11-14
I'm having a similar problem.

I have two NVidia cards, 3 monitors, and use Xinerama.

I think this might be a bug in Flash and/or Firefox.  I've had the problem about a dozen times since upgrading to 8.10.  The problem seems more frequent when playing flash games, or surfing youtube.  

My current theory is that closing a browser tab when the mouse is inside a flash area causes the problem, but I can't consistently reproduce the bug.

---

### Post by AntonOlsen on 2008-11-14
Well, the bug isn't limited to closing a tab with flash.

I just restored a firefox session with a flash video on metacafe and the mouse clicks stopped again.  I still think it is flash related though.

---

### Post by ph8 on 2008-11-15
I have this issue - my mouse works for a time then stops working - it's still moveable but I can't perform any click actions (e.g. selecting/dragging-dropping --- anything)

I can recreate this by playing an AVI or other video file in xine-ui, marking it as 'on top', placing a nautilus window behind it (completely covered) then right clicking on said window on the task bar and trying to move it away.

Any ideas at all would be amazing?

---

### Post by AntonOlsen on 2008-11-15
I also think I stumbled upon a fix, and maybe a possible cause.

I had installed btnx a while back for my Revolution MX mouse.  It is still starting, even after the upgrade to Intrepid.  I've read that it isn't compatible with the new X, so I tried killing it (both with kill and /etc/init.d/btnx stop) and it respawns and sometimes the mouse button works again.

If the clicks don't work, move the mouse to another USB port.  This seems to cause X to see it right again and the clicks start working.

I'm about to re-install from scratch because of a lot of other cruft on this box.  I'll post again if the problem occurs on the fresh system.

---

### Post by chimaster on 2008-11-16
Me too!!!

I can reproduce by jumping in and out of windows quickly. Although, it is still seemingly random.  

I'm using Xinerama with 2xNvidia 9500GT PCIE, 3 Screens.  I initially had alot of trouble with Nvidia drivers (mouse would freeze every 2 min) I've upgraded to 177.82 from nvidia directly, it's helped lots. But it still freezes.

I've also just stopped using xinerama to see if that helps, based on some other posts. But it would be great to have my cake and eat it too.

---

### Post by AntonOlsen on 2008-11-17
I'm now running x86 8.10 on my desktop, fresh install.

I have a wireless Revolution MX mouse, and a cheap wired mouse for backup when I forget to recharge the wireless.

I am still losing the ability to click.  It just happened now as I was surfing reddit, opening windows in a new tab, and closing them as I read them.  I was clicking the red X on the tabs to close them.

This time moving the mouse to a different USB didn't work, nor did plugging in the backup mouse.  A few times before I re-installed this worked, but not every time.  

In the end I had to ctrl-alt-bkspc and log back in.

---

### Post by amp_man on 2008-11-18
To the OP:

In /boot/grub/menu.lst, find the line that says "# defoptions=quiet splash" and add "i8042.nomux=1", then run sudo update-grub and reboot. Let me know if it works ;) If it doesn't work, you'll probably have to boot into recovery mode and fix it via command line, so make sure you have [nano/pico/vim/emacs] installed.

---

### Post by blazerw on 2008-11-24
This seems to be the launchpad bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/296167](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/296167)

I've seen suggested in there that if you're using Xinerama, switch to Twinview. I just did this, so no real test results for you. However, with 2 monitors, it's working exactly the same as with Xinerama except that it seems snappier and compiz works.

I'll update later if the problem doesn't reappear. Or if it does.

---

### Post by AntonOlsen on 2008-11-24
Unfortunately Twinview doesn't appear to work with multiple nvidia cards.

I've tried setting up twinview on the better card and using the other as a separate X instance, but it didn't work so well.

---

### Post by chimaster on 2008-11-24
Twinview is not an option for me. 3 Screens with Twinview is a pain, you end up with a seperate screen.  Although I don't have compiz and things are a little slower with Xinerama, I don't care, I have a need for Three screens when using my monitoring package (the dude) or Freemind.  

Would love to see xinerama, compiz working.  I've tried fakexinerama but it doesn't work with the new version of x. :(

That bug that blazerw has linked to seems to be the one.  Will be keeping an eye on that!

---

### Post by karlwilbur on 2009-01-06
"My current theory is that closing a browser tab when the mouse is inside a flash area causes the problem, but I can't consistently reproduce the bug."

I don't think that has anything to do with it. I have had this same thing happen without a browser even open.

I am using 2 video cards and 3 displays w/ xinerama. this was working fine in 8.04. I am totally regretting upgrading now. 

Anyone know of a downgrade path that I might take to resolve this? It is really debilitating.

---

### Post by AntonOlsen on 2009-01-06
I've given up on finding a cause.  I've had it happen any number of ways now, including immediately after logging in.  Many people have related that flash seems to make it happen more often than other things.

There is info on downgrading xorg to the hardy packages in this bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/296167](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/296167)

It seems to be narrowed down to xinerama, but I can't tell if anyone is working on it yet.

---

### Post by karlwilbur on 2009-01-06
I have found that this actually works for me:

(post from: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/296167](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/296167) )

Kevin Browne wrote on 2008-12-10: (permalink)

I also encounter this problem three or four times per day. I have three monitors on two Nvidia Quadro FX cards, using the nvidia 177 binary driver on 8.10.

I found that when the problem strikes, I can re-enable the mouse with the following steps:
1) Select a window using ALT+TAB.
2) Open the window's menu with ALT+SPACE.
3) Select 'Move' from the menu. The cursor should change to the hand cursor and be positioned in the centre of the window.
4) Move the cursor with the mouse. If this causes the window to move (unlikely), left-clicking should release the window and the mouse should work normally.
5) It's more likely that moving the mouse will just move the cursor and the window will stay put. In this case use the cursor keys to move the window to the primary monitor. If the window is already on the primary monitor, move it to another monitor, then back to the primary.
6) Once the window is on the primary monitor, move the cursor with the mouse. The window should move with the cursor, and mouse events register again.

This works for me every time. It's far from ideal, and I detest this kind of voodoo workaround, but it's better than restarting X. Of course, your mileage may vary.

---

### Post by karlwilbur on 2009-01-06
Alternatively, downgrading Xorg may work:

[http://dailyvim.blogspot.com/2008/12/ubuntu-downgrading-xorg.html](http://dailyvim.blogspot.com/2008/12/ubuntu-downgrading-xorg.html)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-01-15
> **karlwilbur said:**
> 
.........
I am using 2 video cards and 3 displays w/ xinerama. this was working fine in 8.04. **I am totally regretting upgrading now**. 

Anyone know of a downgrade path that I might take to resolve this? It is really debilitating.

Don't, I use 8.04 and I also now have this issue. It seems some recent update has caused it in both versions.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-01-16
Ok, after some experiments my system now seems to be cured - but I will need to have some of the others with this problem to try my "cure" to see if it works.

Basically I looked through my Synaptic history and tried to find a package update that occurred around the time I noticed this problem - and this are what I found and rolled back to a previous version (now, don't laugh....):

network-manager libnm-util0 libnm-glib0 (all now version 0.6.6.0ubuntu5)

I had been using the backported 8.10 versions, but since I have reverted back to this version my mouse keys have behaved (and I have removed the 8.10 backports from my repositories).

If any 8.10 user wants to obtain these old packages and see if they fix their problem, then this has info:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1036360](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1036360)


DRAT!, I still have the problem - although not as bad as previously, and it seems to totally disappear after a CTRL-ALT-BACKSPACE

---

