---
title: "[20.04] How to interpret this message in software-properties-gtk?"
date: 2020-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-05-07
Been playing around with Xubuntu 20.04 the last few days.  One of the first things I do is purge snapd because it has no option to disable automatic updates.  After I believed to have uninstalled snapd, I opened software-properties-gtk Updates tab, and noticed the message "Snap package updates are checked routinely and installed automatically."  But, again, I thought I had uninstalled snapd, so that shouldn't be the case on my machine?

Is it telling me I didn't completely uninstall snapd?  (Or that something else that's still there will force automatic snap package updates?)
Or is this just a generic informational text that's always shown, and has zero bearing on current system state?

(In case it's relevant, due to dependency issues such as [this]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2388137") I don't uninstall the snapd library -
```
$ dpkg-query -W | grep -i snapd
gir1.2-snapd-1:amd64	1.57-0ubuntu3
libsnapd-glib1:amd64	1.57-0ubuntu3

```

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2020-05-07
As an old hand, you are likely aware of these options, but if not, perhaps they might help: [https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/managing-updates/7022#heading--controlling-updates](https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/managing-updates/7022#heading--controlling-updates)

I find that Canonical has committed itself so thoroughly to Snaps that I no longer seek to disable it. Doing so breaks too many things. But it does cause me no end of grief when an update cycle springs up in the middle of something important. My workaround is to schedule them for early Friday mornings and to leave my computers running overnight that day.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-05-08
> **DuckHook said:**
> As an old hand, you are likely aware of these options, but if not, perhaps they might help: 

Thanks but I was already aware that's possible.  Unfortunately it is not sufficient.

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2020-05-08
If you download the source-archive for software-properties-gtk from [https://packages.ubuntu.com/focal/software-properties-gtk](https://packages.ubuntu.com/focal/software-properties-gtk) and grep through it for 'snap' you'll find that that message is just a label in the UI and is not connected to any logic which shows or hides it depending on whether or not snap is actually available. It's probably meant to tell users who *do* use snap that the settings made in that program have absolutely no influence on snap packages.

Holger

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-05-08
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
>  that message is just a label in the UI and is not connected to any logic which shows or hides it depending on whether or not snap is actually available. 

Thanks Holger! :KS

---

