---
title: "Qt 4.3.x - Repository - OpenFOAM trouble"
date: 2009-02-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by torden85 on 2009-02-21
Hi there! I'm a brand new user of Linux Ubuntu and I'm experiencing some issues with the installation of OpenFOAM 1.5.

ParaView binaries will work only with the Qt version with which it was made, namely 4.3.x (for the 32-bit version). Now, there is a link on the official site for the repositories, but the only thing that happens when I put the URL into my Synaptic APT is "malformed line 85...", which in addition completely crashed my Synaptic. :( I solved that, but I still can't find a proper repository for Qt 4.3.x.

Can anyone provide me with a full, appropriate APT address that has got Qt 4.3.x?

THANKS A MILLION! :)

---

### Post by cw2008 on 2009-04-29
Hi there,
I have recently installed OpenFOAM and am also trying to get everything working smoothly.

I don't have a direct answer to your question, but the standard Ubuntu 8.04 build comes with Qt 4.3.4
Are you sure that Qt is the problem?  Have you tried entering "qmake --version" as suggested in the openFOAM readme?

I do remember that I had to install some additional libraries to make ParaView work.

entering:
sudo apt-get install libqt4-dev 
in the terminal did the trick for me.


I hope that I have been of some help.

---

### Post by torden85 on 2009-04-29
Well, to begin with - I have Ubuntu 8.10 which comes with Qt 4.4.x. I kinda got over it because I simply found a binary version of ParaView and that pretty much solved the problem. :)

---

### Post by orodoni_le on 2009-05-03
> **torden85 said:**
> Well, to begin with - I have Ubuntu 8.10 which comes with Qt 4.4.x. I kinda got over it because I simply found a binary version of ParaView and that pretty much solved the problem. :)

I also had problems with the ParaView. I "successfully" installed OpenFOAM in the past, under Ubuntu 8.04, with only an error regarding a server connection during the ./foamInstallationTest check script.

Now, I upgraded my computer to Ubuntu 9.04, installed OpenFOAM, getting the same error at ./foamInstallationTest script.

```
Checking networking...
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Action                   Result                                       Crit
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pinging_username-laptop  Successful                                   yes 
Pinging_localHost        Successful                                   yes 
Test_rsh:                Unsuccessful_connection_refused*             yes
Test_ssh:                Unsuccessful_connection_refused*             yes
FATAL ERROR: No remote shell available.
             OpenFOAM 1.5 enviroment requires either ssh and/or rsh.
             Contact your system administrator.
```

As far as I know, this problem is critical only with parallel computing. My real concern is the ParaView under Ubuntu 9.04. How did you managed to run it? I try to install the Qt 4.3.x, but Ubuntu Jaunty comes with Qt 4.5.x and the downgrade isn't straightforward. I get this error when I try to start paraFoam
```
file does not exist:  './system/controlDict'

usage: paraFoam [-case dir]

* start paraview 3.3-cvs with the OpenFOAM libraries
```

I would appreciate the binary version of ParaView that you mention.

Thanks in advance for your help

---

### Post by torden85 on 2009-05-06
Well, as I said, I use Ubuntu 8.10, but nevertheless... I had no trouble with ParaView...actually I do, because I haven't managed to install the appropriate plug-ins for OpenFOAM, but I use VTK converter anyway.

Try finding a binary version instead of the source code. It worked for me.

---

### Post by lut on 2009-05-15
> **orodoni_le said:**
> I also had problems with the ParaView. I "successfully" installed OpenFOAM in the past, under Ubuntu 8.04, with only an error regarding a server connection during the ./foamInstallationTest check script.

Now, I upgraded my computer to Ubuntu 9.04, installed OpenFOAM, getting the same error at ./foamInstallationTest script.

```
Checking networking...
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Action                   Result                                       Crit
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pinging_username-laptop  Successful                                   yes 
Pinging_localHost        Successful                                   yes 
Test_rsh:                Unsuccessful_connection_refused*             yes
Test_ssh:                Unsuccessful_connection_refused*             yes
FATAL ERROR: No remote shell available.
             OpenFOAM 1.5 enviroment requires either ssh and/or rsh.
             Contact your system administrator.
```

As far as I know, this problem is critical only with parallel computing. My real concern is the ParaView under Ubuntu 9.04. How did you managed to run it? I try to install the Qt 4.3.x, but Ubuntu Jaunty comes with Qt 4.5.x and the downgrade isn't straightforward. I get this error when I try to start paraFoam
```
file does not exist:  './system/controlDict'

usage: paraFoam [-case dir]

* start paraview 3.3-cvs with the OpenFOAM libraries
```

I would appreciate the binary version of ParaView that you mention.

Thanks in advance for your help
Hallo Orodoni,

Have you managed to get paraView working in Ubuntu 9.04? I have the same problem with Qt when I try to build . If I use the binaries installed from the repository on ubuntu I get this message:
 
paraview: symbol lookup error: /usr/lib/libmpi_cxx.so.0: undefined symbol: ompi_registered_datareps

Please let me know if you found a solution.

Regards
Luther

---

### Post by zbangash on 2009-05-22
I don't know if the OP has solved the problem.  I also faced the same problem when I upgraded to 9.04. Here is one way to solve the problem: 

1. Download and expand the OpenFOAM and ThirdParty tarballs. Follow the instructions in readme.html regarding the .bashrc sourcing etc.  stop there. 

2. Google ParaView.  It's a free / Opensource software. Download the linux release file (not the source).  Expand it anywhere (I keep it in $Home/OpenFOAM/ThirdParty/ ).  Make yourself a cup of coffee while it downloads (48 MB or so) 

3. Now get back to OpenFOAM.  Follow the steps in the readme.html.  Instead of running 'paraFOAM', run 'foamToVTK'.  It will generate a vtk file.   

4. Run paraview.  In shell you can go to the /paraview-<version>/bin folder and run ./paraview.    Click on 'file' |'open'.. go to the folder, and open the vtk file.  Viola!! (by the way, frame 0 will be blank as there's no pressure difference etc.  Do not get confused) 

The only shortcoming is that ParaFOAM command makes the frames with timestamp, foamToVTK does not. Not that big a deal considering that you should know what frame is at what time. I even deleted the older (original) paraview-cvs that came with the OpenFOAM tarballs.  I like the newer version of paraview.

---

