---
title: "Problem with Desktop Effects on IBM x40 running Hardy"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GreenNet_user on 2008-04-25
Hi there,

Hope you can help, this has been going on for a few weeks.

Graphics card: Intel 82852/82855GM/GME Extreme Graphics (up to 64MB)
IBM x40, 1gb ram.

I had Gutsy installed and working fine for some time, no complaints what so ever. A few weeks ago though I tried plugging in a projector and the projection didn't show up right, I changed the 'screen resolution' for the 2nd screen to match screen 1, played around with those settings it seems Ubuntu picked up on the projector and made some changes of it's own.

Now, whenever I login without the projector the Desktop Effects cannot be loaded when I select "Normal" from the menu. So now I'm stuck with "none".

When I click on Normal, it gives me the error: Desktop effects could not be enabled.

I've tried changing the graphics card but still have the same problem. Now I've upgraded to Hardy (thinking it could solve the problem), but still no luck.

I tried the hardware test, and everything worked fine except the 'video' test, where I could NOT see any coloured lines moving.

Any suggestions?

Here's my xorg.conf

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection


Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"	"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizScrollDelta"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Device"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Failsafe Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1024x768"
	Horizsync	31.5-48.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1024x768@60" 65.0 1024 1048 1184 1344 768 771 777 806 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Failsafe Device"
	Monitor		"Failsafe Monitor"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1024	768
		Modes		"1024x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"	"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	Inputdevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "device" #  
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"vesa"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	1
EndSection
Section "screen" #  
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection
Section "monitor" #  
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
Option "Composite 1"
EndSection

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-04-26
What video drivers did you use in Gutsy? You seem to be running the vesa ones now (vanilla, no hardware acceleration), and you can't, to my knowledge, run Compiz with those.

I'd suggest you make a backup of your xorg, then reconfigure it without the -phigh argument (to make it a guide instead of autoconfiguring).
```
$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```


If it still fails, please post the output of entering the following in a terminal.
```
$ compiz --replace &
```

---

### Post by GreenNet_user on 2008-04-26
Thanks for your reply!

I tried that, the first bit worked fine. and now i Have a £ sign on my keyboard which is great, couldn't get that sorted through the GUI setup in Ubuntu.


But as you can see, the compiz command failed... :( 


moogerfooger@moogerfooger-laptop:~$ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
xserver-xorg postinst warning: overwriting possibly-customised configuration
   file; backup in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.20080426124930
moogerfooger@moogerfooger-laptop:~$ compiz --replace &
[1] 6280
moogerfooger@moogerfooger-laptop:~$ Checking for Xgl: not present. 
No whitelisted driver found
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 

moogerfooger@moogerfooger-laptop:~$

---

### Post by GreenNet_user on 2008-04-26
duplicate

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-04-26
With your videocard you have two options, and both have their drawbacks.

[http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Hardware/Intel](http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Hardware/Intel)

The pros and cons are listed there, and there are links to setting your system up with whatever solution you choose.

---

### Post by GreenNet_user on 2008-04-26
Thanks for that link!! It all looked promising, the editing of the file was fine, added everything that wasn't there already, and edited the rest.

The second part though, using the LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT-1.... command that seems to have gone wrong (after I rebooted). It all works, and I can see it's "trying" to use more effect. and in fact, it DOES let me switch to NORMAL Mode, but it's not as it was when i first installed it (before the projector attempt)...

the effects were much smoother, now it's jumpy, and almost unnoticable, in many ways it's slower than before...

making progress at least!!

moogerfooger@moogerfooger-laptop:~$ LIBGL_ALWAYS_INDIRECT=1 INTEL_BATCH=1 compiz --replace --indirect-rendering --sm-disable ccp &
[1] 6134
moogerfooger@moogerfooger-laptop:~$ Checking for Xgl: present. 
Checking for nVidia: not present. 
Checking for Xgl: present. 
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Warn: Plugin 'core' already active
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Warn: Plugin 'ccp' already active
Starting gtk-window-decorator
GConf backend: There is an unsupported value at path /apps/compiz/plugins/scale/allscreens/options/initiate_edge. Settings from this path won't be read. Try to remove that value so that operation can continue properly.

moogerfooger@moogerfooger-laptop:~$ Attempted to unregister path (path[0] = org path[1] = freedesktop) which isn't registered
Attempted to unregister path (path[0] = org path[1] = freedesktop) which isn't registered
Attempted to unregister path (path[0] = org path[1] = freedesktop) which isn't registered
moogerfooger@moogerfooger-laptop:~$

---

### Post by Zorael on 2008-04-26
> **GreenNet_user said:**
> Checking for Xgl: present.
So right now it's working, but it's slow? If you have xserver-xgl installed all effects *will* be software-rendered, so major slowdowns are to be expected. :>

You'd have to use the other driver option to get it smooth.

---

