---
title: "10.1 Running super slow?"
date: 2011-07-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Carlos.Fuentes on 2011-07-29
Hey all, quick question.

I'm running a Minecraft server off of a dell T110 with Ubuntu 10.1 installed, as I haven't had a chance to install Natty yet. The problem is, it's running very very slowly, past the point where I could say it's the hardware's issue.

I have an intel xeon (2.4ghz quad core) in there, with 2gb of RAM. 2gb isn't much, but the computer runs slowly even when the MC server itself is off.

I'm talking super super slow, like, the cursor doesn't even show up all the time. It disappears frequently and things take a while to render/open, a site like facebook takes about 20 seconds to completely load. Any tips?

Edit: This is my first ubuntu install, so I'm kind of new to it. The only problem/solution I could think is that I may have installed the 32bit version on a 64bit processor. I don't think I did, butttt that's the only thing that occurs to me

---

### Post by Russell John on 2011-07-29
Apparently you're using Ubuntu as a live CD?

---

### Post by Carlos.Fuentes on 2011-07-29
> **Russell John said:**
> Apparently you're using Ubuntu as a live CD?


Nope, I'm not :/

---

### Post by Russell John on 2011-07-29
That's strange, 2 GB is good enough for running Ubuntu, looks like something is eating up your system resources. Can you go to System > Administration > System Monitor and check under the Processes tab? If you find any process eating up too much CPU or RAM then end or kill it see if that helps.

---

