---
title: "U10.04 How do I autologin a user after log out?"
date: 2010-05-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ridgeland on 2010-05-12
In 9.04 this worked.  Log out and in 10 seconds a default user logs in if no keys are pressed.  I need this in 10.04
This is great for my Mom's PC.  When one of her grandchildren visits for the weekend they can log Mom out and use their ID, bookmarks games etc.  Then when they finish they logout and the PC logs Mom back in.  Mom doesn't have to fish around for a password.  She's 81 and I try to make things easy for her.
In both 10.04 and 9.04 I have /etc/gdm/custom.conf with
```

AutomaticLoginEnable=true
AutomaticLogin=ridgeland
TimedLoginEnable=true
TimedLogin=ridgeland
TimedLoginDelay=10

```
In 9.04 log out and in 10 seconds it does an autologin.  With 10.04 log out and it goes to the select a user screen and stays there.
Where is the configuration file?  What do I change?  Disable something like SELinux?

---

### Post by sirdan on 2010-07-19
I need this feature too - imagine a kiosk-type system where you want to logout the current session, so you can clean up and re-login with a clean session for the next user.  I consider this a "bug" in 10.04. I haven't tried the suggestion posted here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1421849](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1421849) Maybe a workaround?

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2010-07-22
Interesting.  A good approach for a kiosk that will never be turned off.  But it looks to me like for a user that wants to logout and turn off the PC they will get endless autologins instead.  I only want guest users to generate a autologin to the default user.  The default user still needs a way to turn off the PC.
I guess I could come up with some script that has sudo privilege to also GDM for guest users only... No.  
I agree it's a bug.  A useful feature was broken with the current situation.

---

### Post by grg3 on 2010-10-19
I was upset about this change, too. I now find that it is very easy to fix.

All that was required to make autologon work each time for my kiosk was the addition of one line to one file: /etc/gdm/PostSession/Default

```
/sbin/restart gdm
```

Just add this line before the exit line and the user that is set to autologin will be automatically logged in after each logout.

---

### Post by ridgeland on 2010-10-19
Thanks grg3,

Visit sirdan's post's thread and you will see that was their best solution.  Like that post says this can result in auto-login bypassing the option to let any other user log in or it results in having every boot wait x seconds while a screen asks if you want to cancel the auto login and let someone else log in.

Only the second option of a x second delay is a valid choice.  This choice add the x seconds every to every boot!  So to have a secondary user be able to logout and the primary user auto-logged in --- the primary user would be forced to wait the x seconds every time the PC is booted.

To me this remains a lost feature.

---

### Post by grg3 on 2010-10-20
Good point! You always need x seconds delay setup before making the changes to /etc/gdm/PostSession/Default. I allow at least 10 seconds delay on the kiosks that I build to allow the administrator to login, if needed.

I agree it is a lost feature. I am just glad to have found a work around.

---

