---
title: "Password for single-user, maintenance issue."
date: 2022-04-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by johnriordan on 2022-04-12
Hello All,

As part of the Ubuntu 20.04 LTS Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG), a check for setting the "single-user and maintenance mode" to authenticate with password is required. Totally agree however when I followed the instructions the system now requires a root password every time the workstation is bounced. Please find the commands I used to per their instructions. Not sure why this is happening. Also is their a process to reverse? I tried on one of two machines to manually edit the "/etc/grub.d/40_custom" file and ran "update-grub" I have since bricked the OS on that machine. Please see commands below.
Thanks All,
John

```
$ grub-mkpasswd-pbkdf2 Enter Password:
Reenter Password:
PBKDF2 hash of your password is grub.pbkdf2.sha512.10000.MFU48934NJD84NF8NSD39993J DHF84NG

Using the hash from the output, modify the "/etc/grub.d/40_custom" file with the following command to add a boot password:

$ sudo sed -i '$i set superusers=\"root\"\npassword_pbkdf2 root <hash>' /etc/grub.d/40_custom

where <hash> is the hash generated by grub-mkpasswd-pbdkf2 command.

Generate an updated "grub.conf" file with the new password by using the following command:

$ sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-12
That requirement violates the way that Ubuntu is setup NOT to have direct root access from any level. If you break that, you've broken many more security things that Ubuntu systems have in their favor over RHEL/Fedora.  If you want the most security pre-boot, then use LUKS encryption to lock all storage with 2FA.  Then there's no need to allow root for anything.

I've only seen STIGs implemented on RHEL/SuSE enterprise server systems.

Last week, there was a 4-part Ubuntu Security podcast with recommended security steps. They mentioned STIGs, briefly. The links to it were in the Ubuntu Weekly Newsletter that was posted to the forums somewhere.  Think I saw it yesterday or the day before.

Working through a check list blindly isn't a good idea, especially when the checklist was created for a different OS. Think through the purpose for each item, consider if that makes since or not, then follow the rules for only those things that do really matter. Never blindly.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-04-12
If you know the root password, use following steps to remove or reset the GRUB password.
[list]
    [*]Do not press any key at boot loader screen to interrupt the booting process. Let the system boot normally.
   [*]Login in with root account and open the file /etc/grub.d/40_custom.
    [*]To remove the password, remove the set superusers and password or password_pbkdf2 directives and save the file.
    [*]To reset or change the password, update the password or password_pbkdf2 directives and save the file.
    [*]Once necessary changes are made in file 40_custom, create a new configuration file.
    [*]Replace existing file grub.cfg with new grub.cfg file.
    [*]Restart the system and access the grub options from boot loader screen to verify the changes.[/list]

I whole heartily agree with TheFu following things blindly, I call that a lesson of hard knocks.
Good Luck though.
Hope you have the old Grub back-ups, makes it a bit less painful.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2022-04-14
Please use only standard fonts and styles when posting on the forums.

Unusual fonts and styles are eyesores, difficult to read on small devices and can be construed as a form of shouting, which offends forum netiquette.

---

### Post by johnriordan on 2022-04-19
THank you. Will give that a try.  It's requirement now that DoD has a STIG for UBUNTU 20.04 LTS.  I did not have a choice until I realized what it did to the system.  Again thanks again.

---

### Post by johnriordan on 2022-04-19
Thanks man!  I understand, but There have been 3 version of the UBUNTU 20.04 LTS STIG and A SCAP  was just put out. I am required to implement what the DoD says.  However, since it does not work I just want to back it out and hope for an exception because I can't have users login as root. As you can understand.

Thanks agian

---

### Post by TheFu on 2022-04-19
If you don't quote a bit of the post ... or say a handle, we don't know who you are talking to.
BTW, it is acceptable to have a single reply to different people AND the lurkers too.

DISA has this: [https://ubuntu.com/blog/disa-has-released-the-ubuntu-20-04-lts-stig-benchmark](https://ubuntu.com/blog/disa-has-released-the-ubuntu-20-04-lts-stig-benchmark)
> DISA has, in conjunction with Canonical, developed STIGs for Ubuntu 20.04 LTS and is available for download at the STIGs document library.


That's where I'd start. I assume the 20.04.4 docs would have specific commands?  I pulled down a copy flipped through a few pdfs, then saw the xsl and xml ... leave it to the DoD to make something that should be simple, not-so-simple.  How hard would it be to provide a simplified HTML4 file?

Stock Ubuntu doesn't have users login by root, so I don't see there being any issue.  Ubuntu users in the sudo group (or other configured groups in the sudo config files), are the only people who might have a chance to change to root using their own passwords.  No remote root is allowed into Ubuntu. We have to connect as a different user, then use sudo.  BTW, DevOPS tools understand that and work with it fine.

I used to do DOD work long ago. You may be using a different base image, as provided by the DoD, which doesn't work the way that a downloaded ISO from Canonical works.  Further, many cloudy VPS providers also ignore the no-root-allowed aspects of distros that are setup that way. If the installation provides access to root, then you don't have a standard Ubuntu install and all bets are off.

These forums are used mostly by home users and consultants.

Just found this tutorial: [https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/comply-with-cis-or-disa-stig-on-ubuntu](https://ubuntu.com/tutorials/comply-with-cis-or-disa-stig-on-ubuntu)

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-04-19
Yep ^^^^^ What he said. (TheFu)

---

### Post by johnriordan on 2022-04-21
Appreciate the response thank you (TheFu) and (1fallen).  Good info, I never had issues with the Rhel 6 and 7 Stigs/SCAPS.  The STIGS are still fairly new they are only at Version 3.

Again, Thanks guys!
John

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2022-04-21
> **johnriordan said:**
> Appreciate the response thank you (TheFu) and (1fallen).  Good info, I never had issues with the Rhel 6 and 7 Stigs/SCAPS.  The STIGS are still fairly new they are only at Version 3.

Again, Thanks guys!
John

was you able to rid the password, or reset it?

---

### Post by johnriordan on 2022-04-21
I backed it out and hoping for an exception as the reasoning for doing this does not apply and it really does not make sense as you all pointed out.  Thanks again!

---

### Post by rstraub-3589 on 2022-05-06
Hey, just a FYI, I ran into the same issue, that the password is required on each boot then. However IMHO it should only be needed if I want to have advanced settings or edit the boot options.
The solution was to add the superuser to a their own file (like you described) but additionally edit /etc/grub.d/10_linux and add the "--unrestricted" parameter to the line:
echo "menuentry '$(echo "$os" | grub_quote)' ${CLASS}

As described here:
[https://askubuntu.com/questions/1088215/grub-2-avoid-unrestricted-boot-options-are-overwritten-with-kernel-updates](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1088215/grub-2-avoid-unrestricted-boot-options-are-overwritten-with-kernel-updates)
or
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/GRUB/Tips_and_tricks#Password_protection_of_GRUB_edit_and_console_options_only](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/GRUB/Tips_and_tricks#Password_protection_of_GRUB_edit_and_console_options_only)

---

