---
title: "Odd-looking binary file appears, refuses to delete in Ubuntu 15.10"
date: 2016-04-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tapasray on 2016-04-10
Hello. All of a sudden I find a file, qt_temp.X22316, which is described as "Binary (application/octet-stream)" in 'Properties'. I suspect it may be some kind of malware. 

I am unable to delete it, or even rename it in order to delete it. The error message reads:

"&#8220;qt_temp.X22316&#8221; can't be put in the trash. Do you want to delete it immediately?
- Show more details
Error trashing file: No such file or directory"

When I click on 'Delete', the error message reads:

"Error while deleting.
There was an error getting information about &#8220;qt_temp.X22316&#8221;.
-Show more details
Error when getting information for file '/media/tapas/New Volume/140331-For Lenovo/qt_temp.X22316': No such file or directory"

Help would be much appreciated. Thanks.****

---

### Post by coldraven on 2016-04-10
It is most likely being generated by a badly written Qt application. Have you installed any software lately? See here for a little info.
[http://www.qtcentre.org/threads/62255-How-to-disable-creation-of-qt-temporary-files](http://www.qtcentre.org/threads/62255-How-to-disable-creation-of-qt-temporary-files)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2016-04-10
> **coldraven said:**
> It is most likely being generated by a badly written Qt application. Have you installed any software lately? See here for a little info.
[http://www.qtcentre.org/threads/62255-How-to-disable-creation-of-qt-temporary-files](http://www.qtcentre.org/threads/62255-How-to-disable-creation-of-qt-temporary-files)

It doesn't need to be a badly written application - it could just be an app that uses file-based IPC.  While it could be part of a virus, I find that very hard to believe.  It is probably nothing.  What is the full-path to the file?  That might help.

I searched my few desktops and didn't see any files that looked like that, but I don't run many Qt/KDE programs (maybe zero?). [https://www.qt.io/product/](https://www.qt.io/product/) explains what this file is likely part of on the system.  

I'd relax, but if you are really worried, the #1 security tool is having daily, automatic, versioned, backups.  So - how good are your backups?

---

### Post by tapasray on 2016-04-11
Many thanks, @coldraven and @TheFu.

I had turned off the computer last night. When I turned it on this morning, the thing was gone.

Weird, but all is well that ends well.

As for backups, I usually do it pretty frequently on external drives. Never could understand what automatic backup was about ... for instance, how will it help if the hard drive gets corrupted or crashes?

---

### Post by TheFu on 2016-04-11
> **tapasray said:**
> As for backups, I usually do it pretty frequently on external drives. Never could understand what automatic backup was about ... for instance, how will it help if the hard drive gets corrupted or crashes?

Versioned backups provide a daily record of the important system changes and data at a point in time. Those changes can be tracked - so, if this had been a virus attack, you'd have before and after points to compare and understand what happened so that steps to prevent it can happen.  If a corrupted file happens, with daily, versioned backups, you'll have 30+ days to notice it.  If a file that you haven't touched gets modified, that means either corruption happened or or or or ... something else.  Got hacked back in 2002.  Because I had versioned backups, I could see **exactly** what they'd done and had confidence to know 
* how they'd gotten in
* what I needed to prevent it
* what they'd touched on the system
After I disabled the service they'd hacked and cleaned up their temporary files, I was positive no other issues were left behind. I didn't even reboot the system. I **knew** it was fine. Without those backups, there was no chance I'd know anything for certain and would have ended up wiping the box completely and starting over.  I sleep really well, knowing there isn't anything short of a total house destruction that will impact any data.  If all the CPUs died today, a $300 replacement system could be in place tomorrow with just the backup disks and nothing would have been lost except 48 hours of access to that data. Backups happen here from 2-3am daily, so right now, there isn't anything "new" on the systems except email and most of that is system related output ... like how the backups ran a few hrs ago, plus daily logwatch reports ... nope, those run at midnight, so they'd be in the backups too.  If there were any issues with the most recent backups (there weren't), I'd have the version from yesterday (also no issues).

Some systems only get 60 days of versioned backups. Others get 120 days - depends on the risks involved with the system.  I will admit that 1 system I just built a few days ago doesn't have **any** backups yet.  The system it replaces still has 120 days of backups and I could put it back into service in about 3min time - just need to bring up the VM and move 2 router port forwards over. It is a high-risk system (email gateway), but it doesn't have much data at all (zero), so backups are tiny - like 300MB for 120 days.

Plus, backups are so small these days that it really isn't worth NOT doing it.  I don't do daily, automatic backups of ****everything**** - media files don't get that treatment, but documents, emails, system settings, everything else does.  Media stuff gets a mirror, manually requested, 1-2 times weekly.  Which reminds me ... need to kick off one of those rsync jobs.

I'm convinced that data which is referenced is better retained too - call it lazy bits. That is a real thing.  If the bits aren't exercised, over time, then they become lazy and harder to read. File-based backups like I do, only check the inode parts daily, but if those are lost, then the entire file is lost anyway. I do weekly "scrubs" on RAID disks (compares the bits across the different drives) - after all, if the files are important enough to put on RAID, then they are important enough to scrub weekly AND have 30-90 days of backups.  BTW, RAID isn't a replacement for backups. RAID is for 2 purposes only - HA or performance. Backups are still required ... just read these forums for all the times that something bad happens with RAID and the only real solution is to rebuild the RAID array and restore from backups.

Without these versioned backups, what can be done? Nothing.  There are 1,000 other reasons and uses for backups. About 20 are easy to list, but there are many others that become clear only after you need them.

---

### Post by tapasray on 2016-04-11
Thanks, @TheFu, for taking so much trouble to explain this. Unfortunately, about 60% of it went over my head. The 40% I think I understood, tells me that auto backup is a very good idea. Will be doing it from now on.

... Ok, I have activated automatic backup in Deja Vu and set it for daily, with "at least 6 months" retention period. By default, Trash and Downloads are the folders to be ignored. When I try to add more folders to the 'ignore' list, the Home directory opens up. Does this mean that Deja Vu will only back up the Home directory? Or should I navigate to where my media files are - on a different logical drive - to add those to the 'ignore' list?

By the way, when I back up an entire logical drive on an external hd (Seagate 1tb), apart from the data that's backed up, I also see a series of backup files of some 50/60 mb each probably ... I do not have that drive with me right now, so cannot provide the exact filename and size. I wonder if that is the kind of thing you are referring to. I do not see those files on another hd I have for backups, which is an HP 500 gb.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2016-04-11
Sorry - I don't know anything about Deja Vu.

---

### Post by tapasray on 2016-04-11
I thought the backup utility in Ubuntu is called Deja Vu. Maybe it's not. In any case, attaching a screen shot, so that you can see if this is what you use.

---

### Post by howefield on 2016-04-11
> **tapasray said:**
> I thought the backup utility in Ubuntu is called Deja Vu. Maybe it's not. In any case, attaching a screen shot, so that you can see if this is what you use.

It is called Backups in current versions, previously I think it was Deja-Dup..

```
Description: Back up your files
 Déjà Dup is a simple backup tool. It hides the complexity of backing up the
 Right Way (encrypted, off-site, and regular) and uses duplicity as the
 backend.
 .
 Features:
  * Support for local, remote, or cloud backup locations, such as Amazon S3,
    and Rackspace Cloud Files
  * Securely encrypts and compresses your data
  * Incrementally backs up, letting you restore from any particular backup
  * Schedules regular backups
  * Integrates well into your GNOME desktop
```

---

### Post by tapasray on 2016-04-11
Thanks, @howefield. Then I am on the right track.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2016-04-11
Sorry, I wasn't clear.  Since I run mostly servers (no GUI), using a GUI backup tool isn't very useful to me. Why learn 2+ backup tools?  I have looked at duplicity a few times, but never got it working the way I needed.  It is more like an "old-school" backup tool which requires different types of backups on different days of the week.  There is a well-known backup schedule that has been used for 40+ yrs.  Weekly "fulls" and daily "incrementals".  If more than 1 month of backups is needed, then monthly "fulls" are needed too.  

The tool I use, rdiff-backup, isn't that complicated.  No "full" backups needed weekly, just the first time. After that, everything is incremental.  The last backup appears as a mirror, to restores are just a copy for the most recent backup.  Older backup "sets" can be restored using rdiff-backup with a date-to-restore.  rdiff-backup doesn't have encryption built-into the tool, but it isn't needed, since encrypted storage works fine and all data is transmitted encrypted through ssh.  For people who use cloud storage, duplicity (and tools based on it) can seem like a nice option with the built-in encryption, but the weekly full backups need to be pushed to the cloud, er ... weekly. That's a bunch of data.  rdiff-backup generally takes just a few minutes per system to backup daily.  Our email server takes 30-60 minutes, but all the others just 1-4 min. The amount of daily change data is tiny compared to a full system backup.  

None of this probably helps an average end-user looking for the best, easiest, backup tool.  OTOH, be certain to search the forums for all the issues that people have with deja dup and duplicity. Definitely be prepared for those issues. Definitely do not loose the encryption key and expect to have access to the backups.  That key needs to be placed on multiple storage devices - one at home, one at the office and one with your lawyer.  This all assumes that you continue to use dejadup.

Hope I didn't bounce around too much.  Nothing wrong with dejadup, it just isn't the right tool for my needs.  It isn't like Unix doesn't have 50 backup tools available to pick from.

---

### Post by tapasray on 2016-04-11
!! Now I have <qt_temp.nS8930> in the same folder as before. 

The path is </media/tapas/New Volume/140331-For Lenovo>.

This happened after I edited a pdf file with Master PDF Editor. Wonder if there is a connection. This is the latest version of the utility. Until two days ago, I had been using an older version and never saw these files.

Thanks, @The Fu. I'll try rdiff and in the meantime, read up on issues with Dejadup and Duplicity.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2016-04-11
None issue ---- 

Master PDF Editor
   Requirements: Qt 4.6.2 or later.

I don't use rdiff, I use rdiff-backup.  I'm not suggesting this is the best tool for you or that it is worth the time to learn.  OTOH, if you already use rsync (any everyone with a computer should, IMHO), the the rdiff-backup commands are very, very, very similar.   rsync is like ssh and Unix - the 3 greatest computer inventions of all time (I joke, but not really).

---

### Post by tapasray on 2016-04-11
PS: And yes, I will save the key in multiple secure places. In fact, that's something I do as a matter of course.

Yes, I use rsync.

> **TheFu said:**
> None issue ---- 

Master PDF Editor
   Requirements: Qt 4.6.2 or later.

I don't use rdiff, I use rdiff-backup.  I'm not suggesting this is the best tool for you or that it is worth the time to learn.  OTOH, if you already use rsync (any everyone with a computer should, IMHO), the the rdiff-backup commands are very, very, very similar.   rsync is like ssh and Unix - the 3 greatest computer inventions of all time (I joke, but not really).

Ok, nothing to worry then. Thanks!!

I agree. rsync is a lovely programme. Just cool.

---

