---
title: "AWK and extracting data from hyperlinks"
date: 2011-03-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by .vogue on 2011-03-29
Hi,
In course of my work, I have come across a webpage where there are  several (thousands of hyperlinks). Of those hyperlinks, many are named  "CDS" and in each of these CDS hyperlink-- there are certain lines which  i need to chop off!! I kind of have this feeling that AWK would be the one to use. However, I am an absolute beginner!! Infact, I started using ubuntu yesterday ^^. 
I am desperately looking for some help.  F5!!

---

### Post by newbuntuxx on 2011-03-29
Please post an example of a few links, then specify which parts of the links you need cut off, etc...

The awk command will need be tailored.

---

### Post by newbuntuxx on 2011-03-29
In the mean time, let me share this with you:

In terminal run:

```
sudo apt-get install lynx
```

After installation, in terminal run:

```
lynx --dump http://www.google.com | grep "http"
```

This will grab all links on a given page.

---

### Post by .vogue on 2011-03-29
> **newbuntuxx said:**
> Please post an example of a few links, then specify which parts of the links you need cut off, etc...

The awk command will need be tailored.
thank you so much for your prompt reply. 

So, for example I need to go to this link [http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/110341805](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/110341805)
Then, there are several hyperlinks named CDS. My task would be to go to each CDS and chop off the data (at the end of the page) which starts with ORIGIN and terminates with //

I will have to save all this data together. Is it possible ( everything is possible.. but I am not a 'programming guy' :(  

Thank you once again for your help

---

### Post by newbuntuxx on 2011-03-29
Ok, so the the hyper link name is "CDS" but the link itself doesn't contain the letters "CDS"

Example:
```
<a href="/nuccore/110341805?from=190&amp;to=255&amp;report=gbwithparts">CDS</a>
```

What information do you need extracted from there?

---

### Post by newbuntuxx on 2011-03-29
Ok, I think I know what you mean. Tell me what do you need extracted from the following:

 ```
gene            4938210..4938647
                     /locus_tag="ECP_4788"
                     /pseudo
 CDS             4938210..4938647
                     /locus_tag="ECP_4788"
                     /note="hypothetical tRNA/rRNA methyltransferase LasT
                     nonfunction due to the frame shift"
                     /pseudo
                     /codon_start=1
                     /transl_table=11
```

For some reason, I wasn't able to download all of the contents of the page using wget/curl. Most of that output is generated by, what looks like, ajax.

---

### Post by nice_like_rice on 2011-03-29
newbuntuxx - if you read the html returned by wget or whatever it will say "Your browser doesn't support javascript". Either fake the User Agent, or just go to your browser, right click download source.

Then just make a script to grep CDS hrefs, go through all of them and grep ORIGIN...// and append...

---

### Post by newbuntuxx on 2011-03-29
Actually, that part of the page (genome cds etc..)is all generated on the fly with ajax. Its not even in the html source (you can check).

So, wget, curl etc.. are all useless since they are non-interactive. 

The only way that I found is to load the page in a web browser, copy paste it into a file and then do whatever operations on it. 


I don't know how faking the user-agent will help.

---

### Post by nice_like_rice on 2011-03-29
I assumed it just guessed whether you could view it based on your user agent, then didn't give you the page with certain ones.. Yes using a browser does seem like the only way.

---

### Post by nice_like_rice on 2011-03-29
I think this is incredibly difficult to do. I have all the links, however they all point to pages generated by ajax like newbuntuxxx said. Short of doing something really clever, the only option might be to use a scraper like spidermonkey? I have no experience with that but I think it parses javascript, though I think it would be complicated to set up...

---

### Post by newbuntuxx on 2011-03-29
Well, it maybe just easier to copy past the html into a file, and then perform the operations on it. I think thats what vogue wants.

Just need him to confirm if that is the case, and what does need to extract. Also, in what format do he want it.

---

### Post by .vogue on 2011-03-30
Thank you newbuntuxx and nice_like_rice. I am overwhelmed by your responses. 

Inside each CDS, there is something like 
ORIGIN      
        1 atgaaacgca ttagcaccac cattaccacc accatcacca ttaccacagg taacggtgcg
       61 ggctga
//

So, what I need is the sequence from  atggaacgca.........tga  in a readable format (word, txt). The next sequence from another CDS e.g if it is atgagaca...taa can begin from the tail end of the first one. Its basically a base pair sequence in DNA of an organism.
 I think scrapbook  from firefox might be helpful. 

Thank you once again!!

---

### Post by s.fox on 2011-03-30
[QUOTE=.vogue]In course of my work[/QUOTE]

From the [Ubuntu Forum Policy]("http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy"), Section II , point 7

> 
While we are happy to serve as a resource for hints and for asking  questions when you get stuck and need a little help, the **Ubuntu Forums  is not a homework service. Please do not post your homework assignments  expecting someone else to do it for you**. Any such threads will be taken  offline and warnings or infractions may be issued.Homework threads are not permitted.

Thread Closed.

---

### Post by s.fox on 2011-03-30
After discussing this thread with my fellow members of staff, we have decided to re-open the thread.

---

