---
title: "12.04 LTS Dual Monitor Problems"
date: 2012-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kvncltn on 2012-05-19
Decided to do a clean install of Ubuntu 12.04 64bit today and once it was installed the desktop never displayed properly and I was only able to move my mouse. I thought something went wrong with the installation and because it was a clean install I formatted and started again.

After a successful install the same thing occurred, only 3 items on the Launcher Bar appeared(Dash Home, Workspace Switcher and the Rubbish Bin) with nothing in the top bar and a moving mouse unable to do anything. I decided that I should try again but found the same problem. This time I noticed that when I moved my mouse some pixelated picture sometimes displayed on my second screen and I thought to turn it off and unplug it to see if that was the problem. Sure enough Ubuntu started and worked perfectly without the second monitor, turn it on and both screens go pixelated and the OS becomes unusable requiring a restart with the second screen disconnected.

Using the machine with one screen I decided to install the ATI proprietary driver to see if that may help with the second screen. Once installed if I have both screens connected I have 2 black screens. Once the second is disconnected I get an error message saying the screens exceeded the maximum size of 1920x1920. Searched for a solution to this and found I need to edit xorg.conf and change the virtual maximum size, there is no such file on my machine and when I found out how to re-create the file terminal gave me a fatal error.

The crazy thing is that if I use the installation disk as a Live CD it works perfectly with both monitors. How can the Live CD enable 2 monitors to work flawlessly but the installation using the same files manage to cause such trouble on the same hardware?

My hardware specs are as follows:
Intel Core 2 Quad Q9550
Gigabyte EP45-UD3
Gigabyte HD6950 OC
4Gb Crucial Ballistix DDR2 RAM
OCZ Vertex 2E 120Gb SSD
Logitech G500 and K300 Mouse and Keyboard
Dell E176FPf & U2412M

---

