---
title: "16.04.1 MANY 25 sec delays on boot with Nvidia card and driver"
date: 2017-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-01-11
Going to try to shoot this after abandoning it and then recently trying a radeon but couldn't install a driver. So back to trying Nvidia.

boot to grub, hit enter, then it sits there for 25 sec with a few disk reads, the speaker beeps, and then it 7 sec boots to password.  All I get on trace is the last 7 secs.

So what's causing the 25 sec hang?

New build but I've experienced it on past builds of 16.04.1 .

```
kris@kris-Z97X-UD3H:~$ systemd-analyze
Startup finished in 2.092s (kernel) + 5.730s (userspace) = 7.823s
kris@kris-Z97X-UD3H:~$ systemd-analyze blame
          5.166s udev-configure-printer@-devices-pci0000:00-0000:00:14.0-usb3-3\
           466ms dev-sda7.device
           200ms ModemManager.service
           snip
```

```
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: NVIDIA Corporation GM107 [GeForce GTX 750 Ti] (rev a2)
    Subsystem: eVga.com. Corp. GM107 [GeForce GTX 750 Ti]
    Kernel driver in use: nvidia

drivers tried: a bunch: 340.101   to 375.26

```

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-01-12
Are you getting those drivers from 'Additional Drivers' or external to the official repos? Curious ...

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-01-12
a) most came from software updates  I got a few more by doing
```
[FONT=Liberation Mono][SIZE=2]sudo add-apt-repository ppa:graphics-drivers/ppa[/SIZE][/FONT]
[FONT=Liberation Mono][SIZE=2]sudo apt-get update[/SIZE][/FONT]
  
```

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-01-12
Well, I found out a lot sooner than I thought I would - the AMD 16.50 driver didn't allow HDMI sound for this R7 250 card so I removed that driver, swapped back to the Nvidia card and installed 367.57 from "additional drivers"  The sound works fine but I've got the 25 sec delay back.  So it wasn't a 32bit thing as I am now 64bit.  Wonder what causes it?

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-01-12
Okay, starting to look at why the 25sec delay (BOTH in startup and shutdown)  I offer the following in case someone sees something wrong.
card is GTX750Ti

Note: in grub, after choose Ubuntu, it sits for 25 sec, THEN BEEPS once, and does a 7 sec boot to password.


A restart on this system now looks like:
click shutdown, choose restart, 25sec, BEEP, 25sec, BEEP, 7sec, BOOT, grub menu, 25sec, BEEP, 7 sec, password box.   HELP!!!

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-01-12
Okay, I'm stuck - GTX750Ti any driver other than nouveau and I have lots of delays on startup and shutdown/restart.  Speed is worthless.
   R7 250 any driver other than what's builtin and I loose HDMI sound ports.  Again, no driver and speed is worthless.

HELP...

---

### Post by efflandt on 2017-01-12
I gave up on 16.04.1 because it did something on shutdown such that my legacy BIOS splash screen would not display, grub menu would not display, no plymouth, basically a black screen until something did graphics (gui login screen) regardless of using GTX 750 Ti or GTX 1060. So since I cannot get to BIOS or grub menu, I cannot use 16.04.1. So I installed 64-bit 16.10 instead on mSATA SSD in SATA adapter (I still have 14.04 and Win7 on my hard drive). I am currently using nvidia-375 from graphics-drivers ppa, but there seems to be little difference between that and nvidia-370 package.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-01-12
> **efflandt said:**
> I gave up on 16.04.1 because it did something on shutdown such that my legacy BIOS splash screen would not display, grub menu would not display, no plymouth, basically a black screen until something did graphics (gui login screen) regardless of using GTX 750 Ti or GTX 1060. So since I cannot get to BIOS or grub menu, I cannot use 16.04.1. So I installed 64-bit 16.10 instead on mSATA SSD in SATA adapter (I still have 14.04 and Win7 on my hard drive). I am currently using nvidia-375 from graphics-drivers ppa, but there seems to be little difference between that and nvidia-370 package.

So you're saying that with 16.10 your traversing through grub boot is quick?

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2017-01-12
I started a new thread because dmesg clearly shows something at the 3 sec point

solved with nomodeset - see other post
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2349274](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2349274)

---

