---
title: "9.04 nvidia screen resolution not sticking after restart"
date: 2009-08-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by max_power on 2009-08-17
I have updated my sync rates in xorg.conf. 

When i set my screen resolution to 1280x1024 it works perfectly but after a reboot the screen resolution defaults back the "Auto" setting in the nvidia xserver manager.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by fooman on 2009-08-17
in order to make the settings "stick"...you have to make the changes as "root".

try this...open a terminal (applications > accessories > terminal) and type or copy/paste the following:

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

make the changes, click apply then "save to x configuration file".

hope that helps.

---

### Post by max_power on 2009-08-17
wow it was right in front of my face. THANKs!

---

### Post by majoob on 2009-08-27
Glad that worked for you, max_power, but my screen resolution still doesn't "stick".

My new system has a NVIDIA GeForce 9400 GT card and a wide-screen monitor with a native resolution of 1920x1080 (it's a 1080p).

I'd like to stick to 1920x1080... looks great. 

However, each time I reboot, the resolution drops back to an ugly 1280x1024.

After each reboot, I can go to System > Administration > NVIDIA X Server Settings and change the resolution from 1280x1024 back to 1920x1080, but I shouldn't have to!

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer X233H"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9400 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

fooman (or anyone), any suggestions?

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2009-08-27
enter this command at the terminal: 

gksu nvidia-settings

then edit the resolution to your taste and press save to xconfig. 
This way when you reboot you would have the resolution that you wanted and not the lowest which is 800x600

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-08-27
Don't auto-select your secondary window. Set it the same as primary.

---

### Post by majoob on 2009-08-27
rebooting

---

### Post by majoob on 2009-08-27
Lower rez again. Darn.... so close!

---

### Post by aljoriz on 2009-08-27
something might be amiss with the xconfig file.

---

### Post by gdepratt78 on 2009-08-28
Same problem here gksu and saving xorg settings no go....tried unckecking merge file too- GeForce 6200 NVIDIA driver 180.44.....just noticed im on an old driver...i will try updating to 185.16.36...

---

### Post by Dubstar_04 on 2009-08-29
I just did a fresh install and this worked for me:

Get nvidia to write a new xorg.conf file it can save to (parsing problem work round)

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```

Make changes as root:

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```


I hope this works for you.

---

### Post by Dubstar_04 on 2009-09-10
Did the above work for anyone?

---

### Post by mkili on 2009-09-11
Same problem here. I bought a new monitor, but the resolution is stick to the old one. I doubt the  above nvidia-xconfig && nvidia-settings will work, as only comments changed in xorg.conf.

---

### Post by nikbob on 2009-10-24
> **mkili said:**
> Same problem here. I bought a new monitor, but the resolution is stick to the old one. I doubt the  above nvidia-xconfig && nvidia-settings will work, as only comments changed in xorg.conf.

i had the same problem, and it was driving me round the bend until i stumbled upon here,

i tried everything - when i tried to save to x config file it wouldn't let me
so i tried 
nvidia x server settings 
>nvidia-settings configuration (bottom tab)
>include x display names in the config file (untick this box)
>x server display configuration (select the resolution you want)
save to x configuration file


restart and hey presto the screen resolution has stuck
it worked for me and i hope it works for you

---

### Post by mkili on 2009-10-24
I found out my desktop enviroment was changing the setting when logged in.

In KDE I ran displayconfig, there's something similar for gnome.

---

### Post by Liederkranz on 2009-10-25
Hi, I got the same problem as everyone. Bought a widescreen monitor (Samsung P2350) and can't get Ubuntu to stick to 1920x1080 after reboot. Tried everything the above, but for some reason after restarting Ubuntu, in the Nvidia X Server Settings window the Metamode goes back to number 10 of the list (which in my list says 1280x1024, the res I used in the old 19" crt monitor).

Also, for the record, in that list, the "nvidia-auto-select +0+0" is in second place, the first place is occuppied by my ideal res: 1920x1080.

This is my actual xorg.conf file:

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTS 250"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1920x1080 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
```

Tried editing my xorg.conf manually (removed "nvidia-auto-select +0+0", leaving only "1920x1080 +0+0" in metamodes), but it didn't help.

Then I realized that when I start Ubuntu, my login screen comes up at 1920x1080, and after logging in, it switches to 1280x1024. I don't know if that has something to do with the problem.

Another thing: I have the feeling that my xorg.conf is too small, as if there's some things or sections missing. Anyone can tell me if I can add something manually to help solve the problem?

Thanks all in advance!

---

### Post by mkili on 2009-10-25
> **Liederkranz said:**
> 

Then I realized that when I start Ubuntu, my login screen comes up at 1920x1080, and after logging in, it switches to 1280x1024. I don't know if that has something to do with the problem.


As I noted above, your window manager changes the resolution after you log in. Use your wm's configuration utility to change it, nvidia-settings has nothing with this.

---

### Post by ExTruckie on 2009-10-25
Well I kinda am having the same issue and none of the suggestions are working for me.
I also have the latest driver package but can't seem to get it to install. it is in a .run file
I know i have to do that from root but it still don't work!

---

### Post by 289Shelby on 2009-10-25
I don't know if this will be of any use as it's for KDE and I don't know if there's anything similar for Gnome.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961407](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961407)

Post #4

---

### Post by Liederkranz on 2009-10-26
> **mkili said:**
> As I noted above, your window manager changes the resolution after you log in. Use your wm's configuration utility to change it, nvidia-settings has nothing with this.
I don't know how I didn't try that in the first place.

The simplest solutions sometimes are the hardest to find.

Thanks a lot mkili!!

---

### Post by megamasha on 2009-10-27
[FONT=Arial Narrow]I'm running an Nvidia GeForce FX5700LE. Here's the story:

[/FONT]
[LIST]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow]Fresh install.[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow]Can't get desktop effects to work.[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow][FONT=monospace]Install nvidia driver[/FONT][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow][FONT=monospace]now able to enable and play around with desktop effects
[/FONT][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow][FONT=monospace]switch from 1024x768 (low res) to 1280x960 (high res)[/FONT][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow][FONT=monospace]desktop effects still work[/FONT][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow][FONT=monospace]upon restart, resolution is reset to low res and effects are disabled.[/FONT][/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow][FONT=monospace]I manually set to high res again and enable effects, and save using the code I found here [/FONT][FONT=monospace]([/FONT]gksudo nvidia-settings)[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow]restart again - resolution is now saved, but desktop effects have been disabled and I can no longer enable them in low or high res.[/FONT]
[*][FONT=Arial Narrow]My system hardware hasn't changed, so there should be no reason why my computer can't use desktop effects in high res when it was doing just that 15 minutes ago.[/FONT]
[/LIST]
[FONT=Arial Narrow]Any suggestions?

Thanks

Rob[/FONT]

---

### Post by megamasha on 2009-10-27
Oh, wait.
Sorry if anyone tried to find a fix for this - I've done it now.
I had switched to an earlier driver version while trying to get the resolution to stick upon restart and switching back to the latest version (or perhaps simply the act of un/reinstalling the driver) has fixed it.

---

### Post by Scoobin on 2010-01-23
I had the problem described in the thread title - I got a new monitor and it would boot Ubuntu in the native res but when I logged in it would revert to my old res even though the new one was selected in the Nvidia drivers. I tried many of the ideas in this thread and others without success. It didn't matter what I changed in xorg.conf, it wasn't going to fix the issue.

What did finally work, was so simple...

When I went to Display Drivers and it asked me whether I wanted to use the "Vendors" drivers, so instead of selecting the usual "Yes" I selected "no", and there it was, the wrong resolution was set in the Gnome display settings. I fixed that and now when I login it sticks. :)

---

### Post by mucksie2676 on 2010-02-19
Guys, I've had this problem for sometime and its thanks to some of the comments on this thread that i found the resolution.

Please see the link below with the answer.

[http://linux.die.net/man/1/nvidia-settings](http://linux.die.net/man/1/nvidia-settings)

As per one comment, and my own experience, the login screen is fine, but the post login desktop is outsized. this would imply the user profile. the gdm as far as i'm aware is global and overrides the nvidia drivers (defeats the purpose).

the per user display settings with the nvidia driver is by design to allow each user of a multiuser system to have their own preferences.

i hope this puts alot of your issues to bed as it did mine.

kind regards

---

### Post by maghoxfr on 2010-02-20
I'm reading that link but I'm too new, I don't want to mess around and end up worse than I was, I understand what the article says, I didn't consider it before. But what do I exactly write on the terminal? This is the excerpt:

> Loading Settings Automatically

The NVIDIA X driver does not preserve values set with nvidia-settings between runs of the X server (or even between logging in and logging out of X, with xdm(1), gdm, or kdm ). This is intentional, because different users may have different preferences, thus these settings are stored on a per-user basis in a configuration file stored in the user's home directory.
The configuration file is named ~/.nvidia-settings-rc. You can specify a different configuration file name with the --config commandline option.

After you have run nvidia-settings once and have generated a configuration file, you can then run:

nvidia-settings --load-config-only
at any time in the future to upload these settings to the X server again. For example, you might place the above command in your ~/.xinitrc file so that your settings are applied automatically when you log in to X.

Your .xinitrc file, which controls what X applications should be started when you log into X (or startx), might look something like this:
nvidia-settings --load-config-only &
xterm &
evilwm
or:
nvidia-settings --load-config-only &
gnome-session
If you do not already have an ~/.xinitrc file, then chances are that xinit(1) is using a system-wide xinitrc file. This system wide file is typically here:
/etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc
To use it, but also have nvidia-settings upload your settings, you could create an ~/.xinitrc with the contents:
nvidia-settings --load-config-only &
. /etc/X11/xinit/xinitrc
System administrators may choose to place the nvidia-settings load command directly in the system xinitrc script.
Please see the xinit(1) man page for further details of configuring your ~/.xinitrc file.
Thanks and sorry for being a pain...

---

### Post by maghoxfr on 2010-02-21
I'm new to the forum also, sorry for posting this the wrong way. My doubt is post above. Thanks

---

### Post by DoubleGrande on 2010-03-10
> **Scoobin said:**
> I had the problem described in the thread title - I got a new monitor and it would boot Ubuntu in the native res but when I logged in it would revert to my old res even though the new one was selected in the Nvidia drivers. I tried many of the ideas in this thread and others without success. It didn't matter what I changed in xorg.conf, it wasn't going to fix the issue.

What did finally work, was so simple...

When I went to Display Drivers and it asked me whether I wanted to use the "Vendors" drivers, so instead of selecting the usual "Yes" I selected "no", and there it was, the wrong resolution was set in the Gnome display settings. I fixed that and now when I login it sticks. :)
God bless this forum, and this thread.

I'd searched all over the web, and hopefully something like "ubuntu resolution resets after login screen" will help someone else find it too.  I've spent nearly a week trying to figure out why xterminal and logins and every other setting file seemed to know that I was going for 1920x1080, but still it kept "falling back" to the pre-nvidia driver install resolution right after login.  Doing just as you said System -> Preferences -> Display and simply saying "No" got me to the screen, where it actually at that point already said 1920 (because I'd done the manual change in nvidia-settings).  Simply clicking ok there to save the setting ended a week of hair pulling.

Thanks again, I'm sure there are more that will benefit from this simple, but hard to imagine solution for newbies.

---

### Post by peesaschmidt on 2010-04-03
>  Doing just as you said System -> Preferences -> Display and simply saying "No" got me to the screen
 Are you freakin' kidding me??? I actually said out loud, "there is now way this is going to work!", but then I tried the solution in the previous post and it worked! I have been trying for days to use different approaches in terminal, to no avail.
   So, while I am ecstatic that it worked, and I know I should not look a gift horse in the mouth, the "Ubuntu Studuntu" in me needs to know **why** this works, and why changing the settings through the nVidia software does not stick??? Thanks to everyone for posting the problem and solutions...

---

### Post by GrimJack on 2010-10-24
I have 10.04.1 and can confirm re-saving the screen resolution with Gnome's tool worked for me, too.

I can into this problem when I upgraded from a dying 4:3 CRT to a 16:9 LCD.

---

### Post by roaddogmm on 2010-11-03
Thank goodness for this thread.  I was just getting the updated nvidia drivers working on my old laptop with 10.10, and couldn't figure out why the resolution wasn't sticking.

Clicking no to get to the display and save it worked!

---

### Post by Marafarrico on 2010-12-01
I have Ubuntu 10.04. Saying "no" also worked for me. Except that the icons on the panel changed place...but this doesn't bother me.

---

### Post by User20202 on 2010-12-28
The idea of going into Preferences, Monitors and saying "No" and then setting the default screen resolution to the proper size does work for the screen resolution but it doesn't necessarily set the refresh rate to the right value if it is not shown in the alternatives. If that happens, what I found that does work is to first set the screen resolution as discussed above and then use Nano or Gedit to open ~/.config/monitor.xml and directly change the default refresh rate (as well as the default resolution if needed). It appears that GDM reads this file and overrides the settings in the /etc/X11/xorg.conf when GDM starts. This will insure that the settings stick when GDM (your desktop) actually starts and that the refresh rate is proper no matter what xrandr says.

---

### Post by epk15 on 2011-02-07
I bought a new monitor and experienced the same problems as many of you on this thread.  The key thing to understand is that the "NVIDIA X driver does not preserve values set with nvidia-settings between runs of the X server".  That explained why X server opens with the default resolution of my old monitor after rebooting.  

This fix is simple.  As mentioned by DoubleGrande and []("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1047702")peesaschmidt open System -> Preferences -> Monitors.  I was then prompted with a note that says "It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?".  I was afraid that clicking yes would change the driver back to the good ol vesa driver.  So I clicked no!!  I then changed the resolution and clicked Apply.  Then I clicked Make Default.  That fixed it!!  The default resolution is now 1920x1080 as desired!!

---

### Post by delphinen on 2012-10-13
> **epk15 said:**
> I bought a new monitor and experienced the same problems as many of you on this thread.  The key thing to understand is that the "NVIDIA X driver does not preserve values set with nvidia-settings between runs of the X server".  That explained why X server opens with the default resolution of my old monitor after rebooting.  

This fix is simple.  As mentioned by DoubleGrande and []("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1047702")peesaschmidt open System -> Preferences -> Monitors.  I was then prompted with a note that says "It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?".  I was afraid that clicking yes would change the driver back to the good ol vesa driver.  So I clicked no!!  I then changed the resolution and clicked Apply.  Then I clicked Make Default.  That fixed it!!  The default resolution is now 1920x1080 as desired!!

Finally! this really works! just set the default resolution using the "Monitors" application without overwriting what asks about NVIDIA as main setup. Thanks!

---

