---
title: "12.04 Unity:  Managing the Unity launch bar???"
date: 2012-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by L a r r y on 2012-05-23
OK, I got this Unity launch bar on the left edge of my screen, I found that I could drag icons up the bar to place the ones I want near the top.  Then, trying to drag some more, I ended up dragging the whole bar up and down.  What gives?

I'm lost.

---

### Post by Derek Karpinski on 2012-05-23
When you click on the icon to move it, hold the click and don't move your mouse until the icon 'detaches' from the launcher.  You'll see it move a bit, then you know the icon is free to be moved.

---

### Post by L a r r y on 2012-05-23
> **L a r r y said:**
> OK, I got this Unity launch bar on the left edge of my screen, I found that I could drag icons up the bar to place the ones I want near the top.  Then, trying to drag some more, I ended up dragging the whole bar up and down.  What gives?

I'm lost.

OK I figured this one out:  
Click and drag, and the string of icons on the whole bar moves.

Click, and hold still.  The icon under the mouse pointer is now free to move.  Drag it along the bar, then release.  

If the mouse strays too far from the bar while dragging an icon, the icon is dropped at the place where the mouse went out of bounds, much like when a football player carries the ball out of bounds:  The ball is placed on the field at the 14 yard line, if the player went out of bounds at the 14 yard line.

And Derek Karpinski advises:
"When you click on the icon to move it, hold the click and don't move your mouse until the icon 'detaches' from the launcher. You'll see it move a bit, then you know the icon is free to be moved."

Thank you!

---

