---
title: "10.04 &amp; visual effects"
date: 2010-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2010-06-02
Hello everyone out there in the land of the raising 10.04 since I have started to use 10.04 getting on the Internet is slow and my visual effects have gone out of the window. I know that the Nvida accelerated graphics drivers brigade are not the best; I have tried 173 & 96 but everything goes bonkers. I am using the processor at the moment and I miss the visual effects that I had with 9.10. But in any case when I boot 10.04 it is indeed very fast cheers for everything.


Computer is ToshibA QosmiO G20-147 with NvidA graphic card and is about five years old.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-06-03
> **Frankiewizard said:**
> Hello everyone out there in the land of the raising 10.04 since I have started to use 10.04 getting on the Internet is slow and my visual effects have gone out of the window. I know that the Nvida accelerated graphics drivers brigade are not the best; I have tried 173 & 96 but everything goes bonkers. I am using the processor at the moment and I miss the visual effects that I had with 9.10. But in any case when I boot 10.04 it is indeed very fast cheers for everything.


Computer is ToshibA QosmiO G20-147 with NvidA graphic card and is about five years old.

Different releases support different hardware. Check the release notes to see if 10.04 supports your hardware.

Ubuntu (actually the Linux components Ubuntu uses) stopped supporting old Nvidia video hardware quite a few releases ago.

---

### Post by Frankiewizard on 2010-09-25
Cheers David

---

