---
title: "9.10 Alternate CD File Sizes Vary???"
date: 2010-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by scathdesolas on 2010-04-26
I'm downloading the iso images for 9.10 Alternate CD. *As the desktop does not work, graphical. For whatever reason even once it starts to boot live (With no direct install) it says in the "boot terminal" (non-graphical, full screen) as I call it "Authentication Failure even bEFORE the actual program is loaded.* Asks me for username / password which does not exist, etc. I'm sick of windows. I used Ubuntu for about a week and fell in love.

Windows is poppy-cosh, compared to the speed, performance, customization, updates, few errors and bugs, everything is superb!** I already converted my fiance and best friend to using the OS in Dual-Boot :) I'll be an avid supporter and do even more using my media company to help promote xD **What's the point? Wine allows me to use all the programs I need that require windows, regardless.. **You have converted me.  **"If you build it, they will come." Amazing job.

I tried re-installing windows and to no-evail for whatever reason screwed up my entire re-installation of Ubuntu. Instead of saying Owner it says Administrator for the new install.

[U][B]Here's my list:
[/B][/U]
**1.) I need to completely wipe out all partitions and start over with a "fresh" HDD. Any ideas how to do so without an OS?** *It was suggested on wiki answers to use BootDisk.com*

**2.)** I have the torrent downloading which is 689.6MB ([http://mirror.mcs.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/9.10/release/ubuntu-9.10-dvd-i386.iso](http://mirror.mcs.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/9.10/release/ubuntu-9.10-dvd-i386.iso)) and the normal ISO which is 690MB ([http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/ubuntu-9.10-alternate-i386.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/ubuntu-9.10-alternate-i386.iso)), from two different Ubuntu.com pages...

[I]Which do I use? Why are they two different file sizes? I assume the larger file size is the best to use. This has happened when downloading the Desktop CD as well. The lesser file never worked properly. Do you guys have incomplete files on the server or something or perhaps just my hardware?

[/I][B]3.) [I]Use alternate installer to have Ubuntu as the ONLY OS.

Alternate Option:
[/I][/B][I]Put Ubuntu alternate cd installer onto my external HDD by Seagate and boot up to it, then install ubuntu... Any ideas on how this is possible?
[/I]

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-04-26
> **scathdesolas said:**
> 
**1.) I need to completely wipe out all partitions and start over with a "fresh" HDD. Any ideas how to do so without an OS?** *It was suggested on wiki answers to use BootDisk.com*

Just delete the existing partition and create new ones from the installer.

> 
**2.)** I have the torrent downloading which is 689.6MB ([http://mirror.mcs.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/9.10/release/ubuntu-9.10-dvd-i386.iso](http://mirror.mcs.anl.gov/pub/ubuntu-iso/DVDs/ubuntu/9.10/release/ubuntu-9.10-dvd-i386.iso)) and the normal ISO which is 690MB ([http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/ubuntu-9.10-alternate-i386.iso](http://releases.ubuntu.com/karmic/ubuntu-9.10-alternate-i386.iso)), from two different Ubuntu.com pages... 

689.6 rounded gives 690 doesnt it ? :)

that said, if the livecd doesnt give you a working desktop, there is a fair chance a fresh install wont either. What videocard do you have?

---

### Post by scathdesolas on 2010-04-26
nVIDIA GeoForce 5200. I'm using Ubuntu now actually. But the one I described above as "administrator". I personally think my CD Reader is screwed. My nephew put a cd Upside Down and played it in the DVD / CD Write/Read Combo drive... Now it wont even burn CDs. Thus why I added "alternate option". 

    I do not want to format my External HDD though, too many files to lose and no where to back them up. Any way to just extract and run?

---

### Post by insane_alien on 2010-04-26
putting a dirc in upside down shouldn't damage the drive(it hasn't for me at least)

---

### Post by scathdesolas on 2010-04-26
> **insane_alien said:**
> putting a dirc in upside down shouldn't damage the drive(it hasn't for me at least)

Actually it can damage the laser reader... it happened to me. Because all it does now is scratch CDs wheN I put them in. So it is indefinitely possible.

All the CDs I use actually get the same 1 error. I used two different CDs. One burned on an HP Slimline s2023w I think and the other a larger HP, normal desktop, about a month old all newer hardware.

---

### Post by SnickerSnack on 2010-04-26
> **scathdesolas said:**
> Actually it can damage the laser reader... it happened to me. Because all it does now is scratch CDs wheN I put them in. So it is indefinitely possible.

Not to get too much off topic, but just because someone put a disc in upside down and then sometime later it isn't working correctly, doesn't mean that the upside-down-disc caused the damage.  It could have (though it's clear how), but your anecdote doesn't give a clear indication that it did.  What else may your nephew have done to it?  ;)

---

