---
title: "14.04:  Just lost right side group on my top panel"
date: 2016-02-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oldefoxx on 2016-02-08
To keep long story short, I want 14.04 on a DVD with the Classic Gnome and several added apps invluding Slimjet, which just works better for me.  The reason I want it on a liveCD is that it is going to br a loaner, a vision whar i like about Ubuntu and think great about Linux in general.  Dash just does not cut it for me, and I would have a harder sell with it.  I don't mean money selling, I mean simplification selling.  These people are fed up with Winfows screw-ups and simple menus in place of chunky icons might be more to their taste right now.  They can drag menu items to the desktop or to the top panel if they want their chunky icons back.

But to keep up the illusion that Ubuntu os like Windows (common ground you see), I moved the top panrl to the bottom and added the hide buttons that come up on each side.  They can snake that panel off the screen if they want a bit more viewing space fot browing, editing. or their background.  Windows users are sort of accustomed to a clean top windows  edge, and might feel confined with a bar across the top.  Looked pretty good, and since I eas doing this on my laptop as a  practice, <i ;eft the hide buttons in place and tried to put it back to the top.

It went, but not cleanly,  I kept getting error notifications when it tried to put the small applet that hord on the farmost side back up.   It woud start, then it eouldf error.  I kept pushing retru, but it was a no-go/  and trying to follow advice on removing illing the panel and have it regenerate did not fix it.  Nor a reboot.  Funny thing though, it eas back okay on the login screen.  But had disappeared when I logged in.

So I;ve lost all my choices for shutdown, logout, suspend, restart, network, speaker, battery, date, time,calendar, and what have you.  Using dconf-editor, the settings are still intact, but the applet must have corrupted.  But that's all I know.  How to deal with it is a mystery to me.  That's why I am here.  It may be a coincidence that I was changing settings on the top panel at that moment, but I'm inclined to think it was more than that, like a corruption of the panel's config file, which I assume is somewhere on my home directory.

 I've another working install that I could copy the file over from if that would fix it.  Or someone can tell me hoe to do it the right eay -- remove, purge, install, etc.  I even have a friend account for guest I could copy it ftom.  I just need some advice and instructions.

---

