---
title: "ver14.10 - File Copies to NFS Mount Freeze whole computer"
date: 2015-01-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chris343 on 2015-01-27
Hello,

I've seen quite a few very old threads about this issue on previous versions of Unbuntu but have not seen anyone complaining of this problem on the newer versions of the software. I am running version 14.10

The issue is that whenever I attempt to copy a file much larger then a few gigs to an NFS mount which ultimatly points to a Synology NAS the whole computer EXCEPT THE MOUSE basicly $hits the bed and the copy progress bar never gets past half way. The symtms seem to come on slowly. By this I mean, the copy will begin as normal. Maybe 20 seconds or so into the process I will see the hard drive lights stop blinking on the NAS indicating that no transfer of data is taking place. Maybe another 20 secs later the I will loose ethernet connection and eventually the whole screen will go "gray" or dim as if the box has slowly slipped into a comma. At this point the computer is a paperweight and a hard reset is needed to bring it back to life.

 I am mounting the NFS mount point via the FSTAB. Here is the code I am using:

```
192.168.2.100:/volume1/DATA /home/me/NASDATA nfs nouser,rsize=8192,wsize=8192,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
```

The mount works flawlessly at each boot up. Accessing the NAS via the NFS mount works without issue as well. Just when I copy any decent amount of data to the NAS does the problem occur.

Anyone else having this issue? I coverted my setup from all Windows to this Ubuntu stuff but I must say my taste for it is quickly souring if I can't use my NAS disk. :mad:

Thanks for any help you can provide

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-01-27
Try increasing the buffers to 32768 or 65536 and add "async" to the options list.  I use 32768 on wifi connections and 65536 on my 100 Mbit Ethernet.  The 8192 value was appropriate in the days of 10 Mbit Ethernet.

However async will make the most difference.  Async lets the server buffer the transactions with the client at the very slight risk of data loss should the server go offline during the transfer.  In that instance the buffer would not have been written to the disk.  I've never experienced this problem in real life, though I have my server on a UPS.  Sync transfers take much longer since the client can only stream data as fast as the remote system can write it. See "The sync mount option" on the [NFS man page]("http://linux.die.net/man/5/nfs").

---

### Post by chris343 on 2015-01-27
Hello and thanks for your response.

I have updated my FSTAB buffers to 65536 then rebooted the PC. Once logged back in I performed another test copy.

Unfortunately for me the issue still persists. I tried coping a folder with random small files in it. The folder was 2.9gb in size. After copying 409mb the box froze up as before.

Not sure what the deal is. Any other suggestions by chance?

Thanks

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2015-01-28
Did you add "async" to the options list in /etc/fstab?

You don't need to reboot to test this.  Just unmount the device with "sudo umount /path/to/mount/point" then remount it with "sudo mount /path/to/mount/point".

---

### Post by chris343 on 2015-02-01
Hello,

My apologies. I should have mentioned that I did indeed add the "async" option but unfortunately the issue still persists


Here is the new FSTAB line:

```
192.168.2.100:/volume1/DATA /home/me/NASDATA nfs nouser,rsize=65536,wsize=65536,atime,async,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
```


    I did some additional experimentation using an Oracle Virtualbox instance of Ubuntu ver 14.04LTS. This VM was running as an instance on top of the problem machine I originally posted about. During this test, from the VM, I just browsed the network for the NAS Share and performed several Copy/Paste tasks between the two locations and the issue did not occur. The was NOT using NFS. I even used a large 4GB .ISO file during one test which would have certainly caused the Host machine to Puke if I tried from there instead.

So it seems there are 3 possibilities here. 

1..Either there is an issue/bug in NFS running on version 14.10 of UBUNTU
2. There is an issue/bug in OS version 14.10 of UBUNTU
3. There is a mis-configured "option" in my FSTAB entry that NFS is not happy using

I think my next course of action will be to remove the NFS entry in FSTAB on the Host computer and then perform the same Browse/Copy/Paste action I did while using the Virtualbox VM. This should narrow down if its an NFS issue or a Ubuntu 14.10 issue.


Ahh.....the joys of computer usage in the modern era :p

---

### Post by bab1 on 2015-02-01
> **chris343 said:**
> Hello,

My apologies. I should have mentioned that I did indeed add the "async" option but unfortunately the issue still persists


Here is the new FSTAB line:

```
192.168.2.100:/volume1/DATA /home/me/NASDATA nfs nouser,rsize=65536,wsize=65536,atime,async,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
```
...

In my experience, _the async option should be added to the /etc/exports file_ on the NFS server.  I mount all of my home directory data from a Ubuntu 14.04 NFS4 server and have had no problems moving large files  to and from clients.

---

### Post by chris343 on 2015-02-07
Thanks for your reply. I just wanted to make sure we are all on the same page here. It appears you folks are using version 14.04 and things seem to be good to go 
BUT the version I am using is 14.10. After doing some more digging it seems this 14.10 version may still be kind of a BETA release.

I've given up at this point. I am falling back to version 14.04.1 today until this possible bug gets worked out. Maybe I am the only brave soul using 14.10 :p

---

