---
title: "13.04 issues"
date: 2013-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by psfal on 2013-05-13
Not sure if this is even the right forum for this, just want to get this off my mind. 

I've been using Ubuntu for about 4 years, and for a (short) while Mint as an alternate. I've not had many problems with it and I love it. I've taken to doing installs for local friends and walking non-local friends through the process over the phone. This works well and it's easy to master the basics of Linux. I've converted 3 people in the last month from windows to Ubuntu or Mint. Once they're convinced away from Windows it doesn't take them long to become proficient in using Linux and they fall in love with it.

The last one has an HP G6 2225nr which is about 6 months old, I had to have her install 13.04 because nothing else would find her correct video or wifi drivers off the install image. It works perfectly for her, with only one glitch, which is not an issue with her but would be with others who have the same laptop. Her 13.04 won't find the camera that's built into the laptop, which worked under Windows 8, this bugs the hell out of me.

I tell you this because it leads to my other issue with 13.04. I installed it on one of my laptops alongside Mint 14.1. I need them both to help with any questions regarding them from people I help. The 13.04 won't find my external monitor so I only have the laptop display to work with, this would also be an issue for some of my people. It's not for me personally as I don't use 13.04, I love my 12.04 LTS version on my main laptop. Both Ubuntu 12.04 and Mint 14.1 find both displays without any problem on this secondary computer (Toshiba Tecra R10).

Barring some answers to questions I've posted regarding 13.04 I can't recommend it to my friends. This is what I do as I am disabled with lots of time on my hands, and coincidentally, I hate Microsoft for all my time they've wasted over the years formatting hard disks and reloading every time it got majorly unstable, constantly downloading updates to fix their security holes, updating anti-virus/spyware software, for the apparent lack of "give a damn" they show to their customers, and for their greed... I'm a mechanic by trade and not knowledgeable of the nuts&bolts of Linux programming, coding, debugging, etc., I know how to use it and I know how to work around issues that I've dealt with/been helped with previously, I'm a hands-on kind of guy. I do look for questions I can help with sometimes but they're usually beyond my experience.

Perhaps I'm regarded as a pain in the A for my inability to give back the help I've gotten over the last couple of years, or perhaps nobody's figured out the cure for the issues I'm now having. Regardless, 13.04 will remain only a fall-back for new computers if previous versions don't work, until I have answers to the issues I'm currently having. Given a choice, I'll only use LTS versions now, 13.04 is an exception to the rule and I've only made it twice so far, once on my friend's HP, and once on my own Toshiba because i have to be able to duplicate her environment...


Vent over, have a great night/day... Philip

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-05-13
hey Philip,
all we need to help you a bit, is to know your video card/chip and the driver used. I've seen in the past a few threads & reports about that second screen not detected or badly set/working. Googling around might give you some ideas and knowledge. But 13.04 is better than the previous release as Canonical have made quality his goal/target.

---

### Post by psfal on 2013-05-13
> **dino99 said:**
> hey Philip,
all we need to help you a bit, is to know your video card/chip and the driver used. I've seen in the past a few threads & reports about that second screen not detected or badly set/working. Googling around might give you some ideas and knowledge. But 13.04 is better than the previous release as Canonical have made quality his goal/target.

This is all I know, I hope it's enough, Thank you:)

[COLOR=#444444][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Toshiba Tecra-R10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  [/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#444444][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Ubuntu 13.04/Mint 14.1 dual-boot                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             [/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#444444][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Processor: Intel Core 2 Duo CPU P9400 @ 2.4GHz x 2                                                                                                                                                                                                             [/FONT][/COLOR]
[COLOR=#444444][FONT=Helvetica Neue]Graphics: Quadro NVS 150M/PCIe/SSE2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#333333][FONT=Ubuntu Beta]The graphics driver shows as Gallium 0.4 on NV98.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
64 bit OS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      [/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by upulr on 2013-05-13
Hi Philip,
I have the same experience with MS. Yet, my office is so tied down with MS, Linux is a big no no. I hope that it changes with the moves we are making to operate using cloud apps.Good news is that I started using Ubuntu recently and just luv it.
I'm no guru but heres something that I had. I use a Dell Inspiron 15. This one has a webcam that works just fine. However if I disable bluetooth using Fn+F2, my webcam wont work. For now I like this, as it give me a means to control both bluetooth and my webcam. I have no idea how the Toshiba is set up with function keys or if I messed up Ubuntu someway to make this happen using a tweak program. Anyway, just for info.
Good luck on finding a fix.
Upul

---

### Post by psfal on 2013-05-13
> **upulr said:**
> Hi Philip,
I have the same experience with MS. Yet, my office is so tied down with MS, Linux is a big no no. I hope that it changes with the moves we are making to operate using cloud apps.Good news is that I started using Ubuntu recently and just luv it.
I'm no guru but heres something that I had. I use a Dell Inspiron 15. This one has a webcam that works just fine. However if I disable bluetooth using Fn+F2, my webcam wont work. For now I like this, as it give me a means to control both bluetooth and my webcam. I have no idea how the Toshiba is set up with function keys or if I messed up Ubuntu someway to make this happen using a tweak program. Anyway, just for info.
Good luck on finding a fix.
Upul

Thanks for the webcam info Upul, I'll pass that on to my friend, her HP is the webcam issue, that just led up to my own personal issue with the external display on my Toshiba in that I had to install 13.04 to duplicate her environment. It's a separate Thread actually, I have both posted separately, this was initially just a vent post until it garnered a response (I'm an insomniac, I get a little cranky when I've been awake for 2 days). I'll be tickled pink if that fixes her webcam issue though:)

---

### Post by psfal on 2013-05-22
[COLOR=#444444][FONT=Ubuntu Beta]Having come to the conclusion that I'm not going to get an answer/solution to correct this issue. I've decided to abandon Ubuntu 13.04 and wait for the next LTS version to move beyond the 12.04 that I use on my primary machine, which works flawlessly...[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

