---
title: "16.04 not 'seeing' usb 16G drive, see in 12.04"
date: 2017-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alvinmoneypit on 2017-02-25
New install of 16.04 on Lenovo AMD A12 ideapad.  the laptop recognizes USB mouse and portable hard drive, but not either of my usb sticks, both of which are Adata and were installed out of the box with music files on my 12.04 system.  They continue to be seen and read on my 12.04 system, but not seen on the 16.04 laptop.  I did 'see' them with the dmesg command on the laptop, but nothing in the GUI. 
 I'd appreciate if anyone could point me to a workaround or perhaps guide me in better administering my permissions if that is the case.  
All responses appreciated. In my research of this issue so far, I don't think  I properly formatted these drives with gparted nor any other formatting program, I simply dragged my files onto the drive, the other drive I added the 16.04 Ubuntu bootable files as well.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-02-25
Perhaps it's something in your **BIOS **that needs to be configured in order to boot from your USB sticks. I know Lenovo is a little different and require more tweaking

---

### Post by alvinmoneypit on 2017-02-25
Thanks Rob, but I don't want to boot from them, I just want to see and use the files.  They work fine in 12.04 desktop, why not in my laptop?  I did look at my BIOS a bit and disabled some items I thought may be blocking the USB drives, but it didn't help so I put the settings back to their original confiuration except I moved "windows boot manager" to the bottom of the list as I loaded Ubuntu over  Windows 8.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-02-25
Have you tried using another USB port there maybe something wrong with the one you're trying to use just a thought

---

### Post by alvinmoneypit on 2017-02-25
Yes, I've tried all 3.  2 are 2.0 and one is 3.0, my usb drives are 3.0 which I think are backward compatible.  My usb mouse and hard drive are working in all 3.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-02-26
Do you have any other USB devices plugged in to that machine?

Try running the following command to see if your device is listed

Command:
```
 lsusb
```

This will give you a list of all devices plugin to your machine

---

### Post by alvinmoneypit on 2017-02-26
I ran lsusb with nothing connected and ran it again with an unbranded usb mouse connected.  Nothing connected I got 8 results, with the usb mouse connected I got 7 results, there was nothing that I could positively identify as the mouse.  The mouse is working.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-02-27
I'm hoping someone may have a better answer for your issue

You can bump your post every 12 hours this way it wont get lost

---

### Post by alvinmoneypit on 2017-02-27
Thanks for giving it a try, Rob. I just now tried 2 other usb drives I have, both these other drives loaded fine.   It looks like both my ADATA drives are corrupted some how that prevents them from being seen in my new installation.  I wondered about it when I noticed the 'busy' graphic  being displayed perpetually when they are inserted in my 12.04 setup.  Both of the ADATA drives must have acquired an error in my car as that is the only place they have ever been except my 12.04 desktop since purchase.  

I'll mark this thread as solved.  Thanks again for your help, Rob.

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-02-27
So you were able to see the other USB drives when you plug them in to your system? Something much have gone wrong with the other USB

---

### Post by alvinmoneypit on 2017-02-27
Yes, I only used those drives in my car besides my desktop, so something about my car corrupted them, possibly shutting the car off while playing the data could have done it, but being visible in my 12.04 system threw me off.

---

