---
title: "16.04.1 and notification for/of system updates..."
date: 2016-08-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-26
I seem to recall from 14.04.1 that every time an update was available, a pop-up would appear on the screen.

In 16.04.1 it seems that I have to remember to open Ubuntu Software, check if there are updates, and run them.

Or am I missing something?

Or am I remembering it wrong!

Thanks!!!

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-26
bump

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2016-08-26
I found this post on the topic it might help answer your question about the updater display dialog box [http://askubuntu.com/questions/98743/update-notification-not-appearing-when-an-update-is-available](http://askubuntu.com/questions/98743/update-notification-not-appearing-when-an-update-is-available)

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-26
My problem is that I have to regularly check "Ubuntu Software" to see if there any updates in there.  Otherwise nothing tells me. "Software Updater" does not get them all.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2016-08-26
Ubuntu Software is just one utility that will download and install updates for us. But It does not give out the notifications. Software Updater will also download and install updates. Whether we get notifications or not will depend on the settings in System Settings>Software & Updates>Updates tab.

We can set Automatically check for updates - Daily; Every two days, Weekly; Every fortnight; Never.
We can set When there are security updates - Display immediately; Download automatically; Download and install automatically.
We can set When there are other updates - Display immediately; Display weekly; Display fortnightly.

What are the settings on your system?

Regards

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-26
Daily
Download Automatically
Display Immediately
For long term support versions

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2016-08-27
I had a problem with automatic updates on Xubuntu 16.04, and I looked into it a month or so ago. My conclusion was that there is some problem with the check for updates being automatically carried out.

To get an indication of the status of update checks, show the terminal output of: 
```
ls -l /var/lib/apt/periodic
```

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-27
```
kris@kris-Z97X-UD3H:~$ ls -l /var/lib/apt/periodic
total 0
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0 Aug 26 10:00 unattended-upgrades-stamp
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0 Aug 26 10:00 update-stamp
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0 Aug 27 08:52 update-success-stamp
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root 0 Aug 26 10:00 upgrade-stamp
kris@kris-Z97X-UD3H:~$ 
```


Thanks all for looking in - yeah something is weird here, but I consider it relatively minor.  I will just have to remember to check "Ubuntu Software" occasionally...  it would be nice if it were to notify me, but then, it would be nice if I won the lottery...  ):P

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-08-27
One easy option is to fix your unattended-upgrades settings so the system upgrades without your intervention. No more notifications needed.
The settings are at /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-27
> **ian-weisser said:**
> One easy option is to fix your unattended-upgrades settings so the system upgrades without your intervention. No more notifications needed.
The settings are at /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades

Thanks but I prefer to know when it's updating so if something goes wrong I have a slightly bigger chance of knowing what it might be...

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-08-27
In that case, have you tried reinstalling the 'update-notifier' and 'update-notifier-common' packages?

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-27
No. This is a new build, a couple weeks old.

---

### Post by kansasnoob on 2016-08-27
Are you running the standard Ubuntu Unity desktop environment or some other desktop environment?

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2016-08-27
standard and very vanilla - all I am running is FF and TBird
ubuntu-16.04.1-desktop-amd64.iso   catfish file search, psensor, screenshot, filelight, grub customizer, gparted, backintime, Disks, Luckybackupsuperuser, K4dirstat, sound, system monitor, pulse audio vol control, tweakTool, gnome alsa mixer, scangearmp2, "SoftwareUpdater", 2 debs for Canon MG7520 printer.  I used TweakTool only to change font size - changed it back when a setting in FF didn't display right.

---

