---
title: "11.04 Freeze after Boot Menu (Grub?)"
date: 2011-09-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by EatMeReturns on 2011-09-23
I am booting from a USB drive (EDIT: It has 4GB). I followed the steps available at [http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download](http://www.ubuntu.com/download/ubuntu/download), and I did not have any issues. I even reformatted the drive, even though I already knew it was FAT32. After rearranging my boot order so that it will boot correctly, I am taken to the boot menu). Everything is fine and dandy until the purple screen with the text "Ubuntu 11.04" comes up. The four white dots start to turn orange consecutively from left to right, however it freezes on a random dot. I have not tried leaving it frozen for more than five to ten minutes. It froze on the second dot about 8 times, the third dot about 3 times, the first dot about 3 times, and the fourth dot once.

Here are my specs:
AMD A8-3500M APU with Radeon(tm) HD Graphics 1.50 GHz PROCESSOR
6.00 GB RAM
64-Bit Windows 7 Home Premium OS
HP Pavilion dv6 Notebook PC
AMD Radeon HD 6750M and AMD Radeon(TM) HD 6620G

My first attempts were with my second screen plugged in. The two screens have different resolution ratios. I also tried it without the second screen plugged in without any differences. I'm not sure what other information you need to diagnose the issue, but thanks in advance for at least reading this far in to the post. ^_^

---

### Post by EatMeReturns on 2011-09-23
Reaaaally starting to get turned off of ubuntu. At the bottom of the first page, no replies... Shameless self-bump.

---

### Post by EatMeReturns on 2011-09-23
Nobody?

EDIT: Upon pressing "ctrl+alt+f2" during this screen, all I get is a flashing underscore and a solid purple background.

---

### Post by EatMeReturns on 2011-09-23
Just used wubi. The issue was never solved so I'm not going to mark it as solved.

---

