---
title: ".xsession-errors grows with 500MiB/minute"
date: 2007-04-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stefangr1 on 2007-04-20
Something very strange just happened to me. I was using wine to install a program (running a file with a bat extention) and at a certain point in time I started to get an error that said my hard disk was full. I started to move files to other partitions, but after some time I noticed that the amount of free space on my root partition just kept decreasing very fast.

It appeared to by because of my .xsession-errors file, which was as large as 19.2GiB!!!  Grazy. After killing wine, deleting the file, and restarting the x-server it was gone, luckily.

I installed Feisty just yesterday, but I don't know if that has anything to do with it. I find it very odd though. Does anybody have had the same experience, know how this could have been caused, or how to prevent it from happening in the future?

---

### Post by Video Toaster on 2007-05-06
> **stefangr1 said:**
> Something very strange just happened to me. I was using wine to install a program (running a file with a bat extention) and at a certain point in time I started to get an error that said my hard disk was full. I started to move files to other partitions, but after some time I noticed that the amount of free space on my root partition just kept decreasing very fast.

It appeared to by because of my .xsession-errors file, which was as large as 19.2GiB!!!  Grazy. After killing wine, deleting the file, and restarting the x-server it was gone, luckily.

I installed Feisty just yesterday, but I don't know if that has anything to do with it. I find it very odd though. Does anybody have had the same experience, know how this could have been caused, or how to prevent it from happening in the future?

Yup, I installed Feisty last week and found that .xsession-errors had grown to 500+MB.  it's mostly filled with this:

```
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 169
  Major opcode:  145
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device
```

It's also got useless crap like this:

```
*** CLB *** Initializing Google Browser Sync...
*** CLB *** Instanciating core objects...
*** CLB *** Registering with XPCOM...
*** CLB *** Adding categories...
*** CLB *** Google Browser Sync initialized succesfully!
CLIENT: Task: Task::done()
CLIENT: Task: emitting finished
Very strange! got a DCOPReply opcode, but we were not waiting for a reply!
X Error: BadWindow (invalid Window parameter) 3
  Major opcode:  19
  Minor opcode:  0
  Resource id:  0x40007ff
Very strange! got a DCOPReply opcode, but we were not waiting for a reply!
CLIENT: Task: Task::done()
CLIENT: Task: emitting finished
CLIENT: Task: Task::done()
CLIENT: Task: emitting finished
Very strange! got a DCOPReply opcode, but we were not waiting for a reply!
Very strange! got a DCOPReply opcode, but we were not waiting for a reply!
[Warning ]: UnmapNotify event, but couldn't find the window.
CLIENT: Task: Task::done()
CLIENT: Task: emitting finished
CLIENT: Task: Task::done()
CLIENT: Task: emitting finished
```

Kate's asked me to reload the file due to changes over and over just in the time I was writing this post.  How can I fix whatever problems are causing this?  If I can't fix it, can I at least trash logging somehow?  :)

---

### Post by ronniet on 2007-05-08
yeah, ditto... i'm using Kubuntu and my .xsession-errors file was 89gb! It had quite literally filled my hard drive!

My file starts off with :
```

Xsession: X session started for ronnie at Wed May  9 00:05:57 BST 2007
startkde: Starting up...
startkde: kpersonalizer not found! Please install to properly configure your user.
X Error: BadDevice, invalid or uninitialized input device 167
  Major opcode:  144
  Minor opcode:  3
  Resource id:  0x0
Failed to open device

```

then goes on to ramble about :
```

QPainter::begin: Cannot paint null pixmap
QPainter::end: Missing begin() or begin() failed
QPainter::begin: Cannot paint null pixmap

```

and is still filling up with various errors! Like one other post said; is there a way to only log particular errors or, at worst, turn the blasted thing off before it fills my hard drive again!!  :D

---

### Post by stefangr1 on 2007-05-11
Glad to hear I'm not the only one. I think the "bad device error" is not related to the fast growth of the .xsession-errors file. Do the other people with this problem have the impression that the enormous file size is related to a specific task / program (like it was with me)? Or does it grow more or less steadily over time... in that last case there's a serious problem obviously.

If anyone finds out a preventive action to get rid of this in the future, I'm very interested.

---

