---
title: "PDF printing problem"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2010-05-10
This situation has been happening for some time and I have had no luck fixing it.  Our library has a HP LaserJet 2100M printer connected to the wall with ethernet. We have 3 XP machines, a windows 7, a mac, and 5 Ubuntus-running 9.10 and 10.04  that print to it. Text files print normally and pdfs from windows are OK. However the Ubuntus cause pdf files to print after several minutes a page or even longer. Sometimes web pages also cause it to hang.By this time the patron has given up and left. I am getting lots of pressure to fix this or dump the Ubuntu OS. I did a search under "print" in the Ubuntu Software Center and it came up with a ton of HP utilities but I hesitate to just install a bunch of stuff not knowing if it will help or not. Also this page at HP has a utility to install.Link is below.
[http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/downloads.html](http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/downloads.html)
I have also read that turning off print spooling may be an option, or will that cause other problems? I am not sure how to turn off the print spooling either.I have also tried different pdf readers with no luck.
Also numerous printers keep appearing in the printer config with similar names and different addresses. This is even with leaving the printer on all the time so the ip address stays the same. And even though I have the correct one set as default, sometimes another one will be highlighted in the print dialog box and so people just hit print and it never comes out as it is an incorrect ip address. No matter how many times I delete the extra ones they reappear.
 I hope someone can help me with this. I can be reached at home tonight at 231-882-4734 until 11pm, or at the library tomorrow 1-4pm at 231-882-4037 or also at the library Thursdays 12-7pm all EDT.Thank you.

The problem happens in 9.10 and 10.04. The place I was referring to is system-admin-printing. The biggest problem is the slow to never printing of pdf files. It is made worse by the numerous HP 2100 printers that appear each week with different ip addresses in the above location and Ubuntu doesn't always highlight the correct default printer I have set up.This is with the printer left on and the ip address hasn't changed.This would be a minor issue at home but at the library constant printer problems cause complaints and really is giving a negative reputation to Ubuntu. I feel if I can't resolve this in a few days I will be forced to go back to XP on our public machines. I have been asking for more time for the printer problem for months with not much improvement. All computers can now connect to the printer which is good, but the public doesn't know how to grab the printer that Ubuntu connects to unless it is highlighted correctly and they won't wait forever for a doc to print. For some reason the default printer I set up is not the one that gets highlighted on every computer. What happens as they will then hit print over and over or give up and leave. I can't believe that after all the studying I have done, it is a stupid printer that will make Ubuntu fail. Every new Ubuntu distro they keep adding eye candy and cool things but the problem is stuff that just works. That is what made me give it up way back in version 5.4. Even now I have constant problems with ext drives unmounting every few minutes that makes backing up virtually impossible.For example at home I had to screw around forever to get my sound working in 10.04 and same deal with the wireless card in 9.10. So I am very frustrated and am afraid that the leadership is making it more and more fancy without fixing the various usability factors that really make or break an OS for the users that aren't computer  tech experts.

---

### Post by notbitmonk on 2010-05-11
First, hplip is good.  Is an HP created and backed utility.  It displays the HP printers connected to your computer along with settings to manage your printer and ink displays.  Many HP printers are supported by this utility including your printer.  This is the support page for hplip regarding your printer: [http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/models/laserjet/hp_laserjet_2100.html](http://hplipopensource.com/hplip-web/models/laserjet/hp_laserjet_2100.html).  You will notice that it says that it is not recommended but that it is Fully supported although it has reached it support end-of-life.  So start by installing HPLIP which is in the Ubuntu Software Center.  in 10.04 HPLIP is installed and you just need to select the HPLIP Toolbox to a GUI to manage the printers. 

Second, I had a home network (all Ubuntu's) with a HP Photosmart Premium.  The only problem I had was that turning off the printer changed the ip address.  Ended my problem by assigning a static ip address.  I used the same solution for a friend's home network that contained an iphone, a Windows 7 and an Ubuntu.  Only the Windows 7 machine gave me some trouble.  So I would suggest assigning a static ip address to the printer.

Third will be the trouble with multiple printers showing up.  I'm stumped at this one.  Do you have more than one printer installed in these machines?  Is the account the users log in an administrative account?  Even at home I set up different accounts to prevent any trouble that may arise from my kid usage.  There are different ways to do this.  For my home network I went in to my Netgear router web admin page and set the static ip address for the printer.  On my friend's, his router did not offer such an option, so I set it directly at the printer web admin page.

Fourth, is this a clean install of 10.04?  I have used Ubuntu since 2006 and have to say that I clean install has been the best option when upgrading.  Sometimes things get left behind that screw up some things.  Try printing the same two pages from the XP and the Ubuntu machines and compare results.  Look at the network connection on the computer.  A green light should come up.  The times that an orange light came up for me, it meant that it using a lower bandwith than what it was capable of.  I just upgraded this machine to 10.04 and I'm installing HPLIP toolbox.  I'll coem again when is done to give you some more info.

---

