---
title: "sharing printer with windows"
date: 2009-02-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-02-24
my desktop (my brother's actually, anyway) runs on windows vista , while my laptop runs on ubuntu.
can i have access to his printer via wireless?
if not, is it possible to do it through windows xp installed on virtualbox?

thanks in advance :)
:popcorn:

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-02-24
Yeah you sure can.  I have that setup at home.  Works fine.

---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-02-24
could you point me to a how-to please?

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-02-24
Here follow [THIS](http://ubuntuforums.org/archive/index.php/t-32190.html).  You dont need to do step 2 if you know your wireless network is working.

---

### Post by chriskin on 2009-02-24
thank you :)

:popcorn:

i will try it as soon as i can

---

### Post by RedSingularity on 2009-02-24
No problem.  Let us know how it goes  :)

---

### Post by myonta on 2009-03-10
I know this is a bit of a necro, but this thread is going where my question is headed.

I followed the how-to linked by Shadow121 (thx, btw), but I actually want to do the inverse of what they describe:

I have my Canon i560 printer connected by USB to my Ubuntu box and want to share it with the Windows PCs on my network. Do I still use Samba? I'm sure I've done something similar in the past, but I can't remember how.

~Jon

---

### Post by myonta on 2009-03-10
Just a little update: I reconfigured my Windows networking setup and reset the workgroup. Suddenly, when I go through the "add printer" wizard I can now see my Ubuntu box and the printer there. Got it installed, used a locally saved Windows driver. Great.

New problem: the Ubuntu box is apparently letting my WinPC see the printer, but not use it. XP is telling me that the printer's status is "Access Denied, unable to connect." Any ideas?

Thanks,
~Jon

---

### Post by Dragonflyoh on 2009-09-25
Myonta
Did you ever solve the printer on the Ubuntu PC being shared by the windows PC? I have the same problem and have almost given up. When I try to print I get an error message  with a heading:
\\users-desktop\2600-series-peer-peer
Communications not available and a list of things to check, all of which are OK. The message is generated by Lexmark. I installed the printer on the windows pc using the install printer tool and it found the printer on the Ubuntu PC. I then installed the drivers from the printer CD and it has never worked. Ant ideas would be appreciated.

---

