---
title: "ATI Radeon Xpress 1100 Driver?"
date: 2007-09-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tolgak on 2007-09-23
I'm running an Acer Aspire 5100 laptop and it has an ATI Radeon Xpress 1100 graphics card. I can't find any drivers for it anywhere.

Anybody know how I can make it work?

---

### Post by aqchat300 on 2007-11-19
what version of linux are u running :D if u are using 7.10 hit system admin and restricted drivers manager check all the drivers and make sure they running cause acer isn't really a big thing for opensource drivers last time i checked

---

### Post by TheGreatBunghole on 2008-01-25
hey i  just installed Ubuntu 7.10, and i have an Acer Aspire 5100 with ATI 1100 graphics, and i tried to do that and it said this error message:

  The software source for the package

   xorg-driver-fglrx

 is not enabled.

and i think it might be because the driver for linux doesnt even exist, cuz its not even on their website!!! pisses me off!!!

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-01-25
The fglrx drivers work with the Radeon Xpress 1100, well I have them running on an Xpress 200 which is older than the 1100.

Try using the restricted drivers manager like said in the previous post otherwise use this tutorial to install the drivers: [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide)

Method 2 works best.

regards,
Danny

-- edit --

Just re read what you said, an that error may be caused if not all the software repositories are enabled.
Go into software sources and tick every box may help you.

---

### Post by ugm6hr on 2008-01-25
> **TheGreatBunghole said:**
> hey i  just installed Ubuntu 7.10, and i have an Acer Aspire 5100 with ATI 1100 graphics, and i tried to do that and it said this error message:

  The software source for the package

   xorg-driver-fglrx

 is not enabled.

and i think it might be because the driver for linux doesnt even exist, cuz its not even on their website!!! pisses me off!!!

[[IMG]http://img522.imageshack.us/img522/4773/reposav6.th.png[/IMG]](http://img522.imageshack.us/my.php?image=reposav6.png)

I think you have to enable the restricted repository:
In *Add/Remove...* go to Preferences (Software Sources) and tick the top 4 boxes.

---

### Post by kga5 on 2008-02-23
I have a Acer Aspire 5100 and I have downloaded Envy, now my ATI radeon Xpress 1100 can be used, but now im getting an error like this:
" The Composite extension is not available." That's when i try to change the visual effects to extra or normal.

Please help, i have Ubuntu 7.10, im am as new as i can be to linux.

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-02-24
This will be caused by an incorrect configuration in the xorg.conf.

You can run this in the terminal:
```

sudo aticonfig --initial

```

Which should setup your xorg configuration for you and hopefully fix this problem.

---

### Post by kga5 on 2008-02-24
I did what you told me to do, but the the terminal "says":"Found fglrx primary device section
Nothing to do, terminating."

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-02-24
could you post the output of:
```

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

this will help us determine any errors in the config.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-02-24
> **kga5 said:**
> I did what you told me to do, but the the terminal "says":"Found fglrx primary device section
Nothing to do, terminating."

If you want to run Compiz, you'll have to use the latest ATI driver (Method 2: here [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide))

OR you can install XGL with
```
sudo apt-get install xserver-xgl
```
Then you need to add this to your xorg.conf
```
Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "On"
EndSection
```

Also, open up /usr/bin/compiz with sudo gedit and make sure the first block looks like this (changes you probably need to make are bolded:
```
COMPIZ_BIN_PATH=**"/usr/bin/"** # For window decorators and compiz
PLUGIN_PATH=**"/usr/lib/compiz/"**
GLXINFO="/usr/bin/glxinfo"
KWIN="/usr/bin/kwin"
METACITY="/usr/bin/metacity"
COMPIZ_NAME=**"compiz.real"** # Final name for compiz (compiz.real)
```

Also in that file, you'll see a line that looks like WHITELIST="ati nvidia intel...". You need to add fglrx to that list.

---

### Post by kga5 on 2008-02-24
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "fi"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"      "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"  "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"      "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizEdgeScroll"       "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"  "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]"
        Driver          "fglrx"
        Busid           "PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "ATI Technologies Inc RS485 [Radeon Xpress 1100 IGP]"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        Defaultdepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
        Inputdevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        Inputdevice     "Configured Mouse"

        # Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
        #       InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        #       InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
        Inputdevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection
Section "Extensions"
        Option          "Composite"     "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by kga5 on 2008-02-24
Damn i got scared when i saw all that text you posted. But i played around with the terminal and the linux said that i have to reboot and when i rebooted it worked!!! Im glad you helped a newbie like me. Now i have everything solved and I dont have to think about switching back to Windows. Thanks again!

---

