---
title: "11.10 Desktop Switcher Glitches The Display"
date: 2012-02-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-02-09
Tried searching, but could not find anyone with the same problem.

Running Ubuntu 11.10 32bit with Unity turned off in Compiz.

I have everything running pretty perfect, with desktop cube and want not.

My problem is that whenever I switch desktops, it seems to briefly flash the previous desktop on the screen right after the switch.

It does it every-time I switch desktops, no matter which method I use to switch.

Right after I get to the new desktop, the previous one flashes on the screen for a fraction of a second.

I suppose I can live with it, but I like to show off my linux setup to my buddies, and try to convince them to give it a try.

And that issue is kindof an eyesore.

Any thoughts?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-03-01
*Bump

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-05-11
Same problem with Ubuntu 12.04

Is it just me?

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-05-29
now on a different computer

Still doing it

---

### Post by cbanakis on 2012-06-18
Finally, a solution.

Proposed updates for Compiz.

Add this ppa to your software sources.

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/vanvugt/compiz-preproposed/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/vanvugt/compiz-preproposed/ubuntu) precise main

Then just do a regular software update.

Seems to solve all my problems.

I did it a couple weeks ago, and have not found a downside yet.

---

### Post by ezzy25 on 2012-07-13
> **cbanakis said:**
> Finally, a solution.

Proposed updates for Compiz.

Add this ppa to your software sources.

deb [http://ppa.launchpad.net/vanvugt/compiz-preproposed/ubuntu](http://ppa.launchpad.net/vanvugt/compiz-preproposed/ubuntu) precise main

Then just do a regular software update.

Seems to solve all my problems.

I did it a couple weeks ago, and have not found a downside yet.

This had been working for me for over a  month now until the most recent update.  It looks like this ppa was updated on Jun 7, 2012.  Has this problem returned for anyone else?

---

