---
title: "WXGA Resolutions making me crazy...."
date: 2005-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fontosaurus on 2005-11-20
Okay, so I have a brand spankin' new Dell XPS M140.  The onboard graphics card is an Intel Media Accelerator 900 -- nothing grand.  When I first got everything installed, the system would boot into 1024x768 mode, when the primary hardware-wise is 1280x800.  Looks pretty crappy, esp. if I'm going to be running the GIMP on here.

Anyway, I've been tinkering around with my xorg.conf file, and after adding the HorizSync and VertRefresh to the file, it allowed me to choose between 640x480, 800x600, and 1024x768.  A "sort of" impovement, in the manner of, "Well, now at least you have some options."

I'm starting to wonder if this doesn't have something to do with my selection of the i810 driver?  I'm guessing that that's it... I've attached my xorg.conf file here, to see if anyone's got any ideas on the matter.


```

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/CID"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
        # paths to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/CID"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "GLcore"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "type1"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc104"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
        Driver          "i810"
        BusID           "PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        HorizSync       28-64
        VertRefresh     43-60
        Option          "DPMS"
        Modeline        "1280x800@60" 83.91 1280 1312 1624 1656 800 816 824 841
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "Intel Corporation Intel Default Card"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1280x800"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection


```

---

### Post by kingsidy on 2005-11-20
I had the problem with my onboard intel 855. I solve by downloading a program called "855 resolution". after installing type this in the command line 

"sudo gedit /etc/default/855resolution"

and put in mode 49, x = 1280 and y = 800.

then do dpkg reconfigure xerver-xorg

also check this thread ---> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27029]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27029")

---

### Post by fontosaurus on 2005-11-20
[QUOTE=kingsidy]I had the problem with my onboard intel 855. I solve by downloading a program called "855 resolution". after installing type this in the command line 
"sudo gedit /etc/default/855resolution"
and put in mode 49, x = 1280 and y = 800.
then do dpkg reconfigure xerver-xorg
also check this thread ---> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27029]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=27029")[/QUOTE]

Okay, that, for some reason, dumped me into 640x480 (ouch!), but I was able to revert to a backed-up copy.  Nowthen, I tried doing this:

sudo /usr/sbin/855resolution -l

And none of the modes came back with the proper resolution.  Mode 49 reports as 1280x1024, and none of the modes report 1280x800, which is the monitor's natural resolution.

Any further ideas?

---

### Post by kingsidy on 2005-11-20
you actually type that in after you install the 855 package. Then reconfigure xorg. In my case i put mode 49, and then i inputted 1280 and 800 manually while the file is being edited. Then restart and see what happens. I f the resolution does not go to the native resolution, then reconfigure your xorg.

---

### Post by Breepee on 2005-11-20
I don't mean to hijack the thread and all, but is Linux difficult about 16:10 resolutions? I'm thinking of buying an 1680x1050 screen and I'm using a NVidia 6800.

---

### Post by fontosaurus on 2005-11-20
[QUOTE=kingsidy]you actually type that in after you install the 855 package. Then reconfigure xorg. In my case i put mode 49, and then i inputted 1280 and 800 manually while the file is being edited. Then restart and see what happens. I f the resolution does not go to the native resolution, then reconfigure your xorg.[/QUOTE]

Yep.  I did this:
1. Install 855 package.
2. Modify /etc/default/855resolution
3. reconfig xorg
4. restart
5. pull hair out  :)

---

### Post by cpotato on 2006-01-12
Hi,

I just got my own brand spanking (so to speak) new XPS M140.  It has the linux i915/i910 driver in it.  I was about to ask if your problem had been fixed, but instead I can now tell you what worked for me.

First of all, I tried the i810 drivers but it never worked.  First it said there wasn't anything for PCI:0:2:0, so I added the BusID.  Then it said there wasn't anything for PCI:0:2:1.  Um...  there's no external monitor.  So I wrote a dummy device and monitor profile for PCI:0:2:1 and then it said it couldn't find the monitor.  So I'm stuck with VESA.

During the original configuration (during initial installation, when I selected VESA), it found the HorizSync 28-49 and VertRefresh 43-72.  I don't know if those numbers are wrong or not, but I read all the documentation and could neither confirm nor deny it.  It wasn't worth calling Dell to figure it out, so I left it.

Next, I replaced index 49 with 1280x800.  I never use 640x480, and I wanted to avoid any possible problem if I stuck in an external monitor that actually did have a higher resolution than 1024x768.

I had the same problem you described with 855resolution.  I downloaded it directly and rebuilt it, and replaced the version in /usr/sbin with the one I built.  Before, when I did the "855resolution start", it would say it worked but not actually change anything, just like you described.  Now the changes stay put.  You can download the 855resolution directly from [http://perso.wanadoo.fr/apoirier/](http://perso.wanadoo.fr/apoirier/).

Next, the line that I think is the only one that really mattered:  despite all of that, all I managed to do was remove the "640 x 480" resolution from the options when I started X.  (Well, except for when I was trying to use i810, then X wouldn't start at all.)  I finally found the right modeline:
   Modeline "1280x800" 80.58 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 827

If you have a driver other (i.e., better) than the i915/i910, then this probably won't work for you.  I did a google search for "modeline 1280x800 xps", and it was one of the many that came back.  I have no idea how I would have figured out that was 827 and not 828.  If you have one or many of the XPS upgrades, you can find a better Modeline that will work for you.  I just put them all in, and saw to my shock that it worked -- then I commented them out one at a time until it broke.

I commented out some of the loaded modules, too, but they weren't the problem for me and I put them all back.  They may affect performance, but they don't seem to matter as far as just getting it to work.

The result:  it boots into 1280x800, and I can switch to 1024x768, or 800x600.  I could probably get 640x480 by moving 1280x800 to some other location in 855resolution, but that's not important for me.

---

### Post by guinpen on 2006-01-13
[QUOTE=cpotato]
Next, the line that I think is the only one that really mattered:  despite all of that, all I managed to do was remove the "640 x 480" resolution from the options when I started X.  (Well, except for when I was trying to use i810, then X wouldn't start at all.)  I finally found the right modeline:
   Modeline "1280x800" 80.58 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 827[/QUOTE]


you are seriously my favorite person on the planet right now.  i've been awake for a good 9 hours installing various distributions, trying dozens upon dozens of mode lines, and trying every utility under the sun to generate them, and then i finally go back and try this in ubuntu, look on the forums, and try this..and VOILA!  apparently the b120 uses the same display!  you are a hero, sir.

---

### Post by efleming969 on 2006-01-23
This process works for me also.

1. installed 855resolution using apt-get

2. changed /etc/default/855resolution 

MODE=49
XRESO=1280
YRESO=800

3. changed xorg.conf  Montior Section

HorizSync      28-64
VertRefresh    43-60
Modeline "1280x800" 80.58 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 827

4. rebooted

I don't know if all these steps are actually needed but it does work on my Dell Inspiron B130 with a 15.4" monitor.

One thing confuses me about this though.  My card and chipset are actually not the i810, but i915.  The 855resolution hack is intended for the i810 drivers (which I do have on another laptop)  to make it think that it's capible of displaying 1280x800.

Another post on this forum recommends intalling the i915 drivers from freedesktop.org website, but the steps are not super clear, so i have not tried it.  I wonder if this driver is better and would support the native 1280x800 resolution without any hacks.  If so then we should have an ubuntu package for supporting i915 drivers.

---

### Post by slackn on 2006-01-30
I have just joined you all on my journey forward. I just got my new system today and installed it and was pulling out my hair. Thanks for this post. It is good to see others out there running ubuntu on the XPS M140. Thanks again everyone. 

Any other pointers going forward with this machine??

I noticed and error of "apm:bios not found" on shutdown

Any tips for this system are appreciated.

---

### Post by nik on 2006-01-31
The i915 driver is included with the i810 driver... A bit confusing :rolleyes: 

There is a modified version of 855resolution, called 915resolution. It's in the depos, cant remember which one... It worked great for me, just installed with synaptics and followed the README.debian instructions.

I believe they are working on fixing xorg, but nothing so far... :(

[http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/](http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/)

---

### Post by usprinter on 2006-01-31
For 630m and m140 (they are same), you may need to try 915resolution instead of 855resoultion.

[http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/](http://www.geocities.com/stomljen/)


I see it works on 630m so I suppose it should work on m140 too.

Hopefully it will work otherwise, I will have to use Windows on my new m140 which is just shipped by DELL.

Also read here
[http://lokorn.neuf.fr/](http://lokorn.neuf.fr/)

---

### Post by slackn on 2006-01-31
Well it worked for me using the 855resolution and I am at 1280x800. I did not have good luck with 915resolution. As for all my other hardware seems to be working correctly. Good luck with you new M140. If anything comes up I will try to add here. I wish I could get 1400x1050 though. Anyone done it?

---

### Post by nik on 2006-02-01
Nope... but using 1680x1050 with 915resolution...

---

### Post by slackn on 2006-02-01
Nik that is great. Any chance you can write me up a quick how to for getting it at 1280x1050 with 915resolution? Also what version are you using? I would really appreciate you helping me out. Just got this laptop and 1280x800 is just not enough.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by slackn on 2006-02-01
I should also add that the settings for xorg.conf would be handy too.

---

### Post by vaiciulis on 2006-02-01
Hi,
I changed my laptop's resolution to 1280x800 this way:
1. installed "855resolution" package using "Synaptic Package Manager" which you can find by following: System-Administration-Synaptic Package Manager. When Synaptic opens you have to enable multiverse and universe repositories. That you can do by following this path in Synaptic: Settings-Repositories-Add. Add the repositories on Security Updates and Updates as well. 

2. changed /etc/default/855resolution
MODE=49
XRESO=1280
YRESO=800

You can do it this way: Applications-System Tools-Run as different user. Run "nautilus" as root there. Follow the path /etc/default/855resolution 

3. Save and reboot. Everything works fine.

---

### Post by nik on 2006-02-01
He beat me to it :) Did exatly the same, only with 915 instead of 855...

And ran a 915resolution -l before changing resolution, just to see which mode to use. Here's my /etc/default/915resolution

```

#
# 915resolution default
#
# find free modes by  /usr/sbin/915resolution -l
# and set it to MODE
# 
MODE=38
#
# and set resolutions for the mode.
#
XRESO=1680
YRESO=1050
#
# We can also set the pixel mode.
# Please note that this is optional,
# you can also leave this value blank.
BIT=24

```

and relevant part of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel i915"
	Driver		"i810"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
        Option          "RenderAccel"           "true"
        Option          "AllowGLXWithComposite" "true" 
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel i915"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth		24
		Modes		"1680x1050"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

```

EDIT: it's easy to follow instructions in /usr/share/doc/915resolution/README.Debian after install... :)

---

### Post by slackn on 2006-02-01
Those instructions worked for me to I had already tried them. I am interested in getting my resolution up higher. like 1680x1400 as nik posted. Thanks for the reply though.

---

### Post by slackn on 2006-02-01
Thanks for your post nik.

Here are the issues I am seeing.
- the /etc/default/915resolution file was not present so I created it
MODE=4d
XRESO=1680
YRESO=1050
BIT=16

-the mode changes I make get written over on reboot
 - I changed the mode for 4d "915resolution 4d 1680 1050" (left 16 bit as it was already in the entry.

- I also went to the /usr/share/doc/915resolution/README.Debian as you suggested it contains only the text "<possible notes regarding this package - if none, delete this file>"
Any idea what that is all about?

I also set all my xorg settings to what you had in your example

Any ideas??

---

### Post by usprinter on 2006-02-02
hi nik, can you kindly let me know whether the 5-in-1 card reader works under ubuntu or not?
sorry, that's off-topic :)

---

### Post by nik on 2006-02-02
I'll let you know as soon as I find someone with a memory card to test with :)

---

### Post by slackn on 2006-02-02
I have read during my search that the card does not work.

---

### Post by usprinter on 2006-02-03
I have got my m140 and will install ubuntu on it, but
that would be a big disappointment if the card reader could not work :-(
But thanks a lot for all the help from you ubuntu-ers :)

---

### Post by slackn on 2006-02-06
Hey Nik any idea on my post regarding getting my res up and the errors I was seeing.

---

### Post by jjinux on 2006-02-21
Why use mode 49 instead of 58?  Mode 58 has a higher color depth.  It worked for me.  Maybe it doesn't really matter :-/

Anyway, thanks everyone.  I'm up and running!

---

