---
title: "10.10: unable to log in after editing fstab to automount partition"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2011-10-14
Hello guys! I hope you can help me with my Ubuntu 10.10 woes.

This morning, I figured I'd just quickly set up my new 10.10 installation to automount the ext4 partition on my laptop's second hard drive at boot before heading off to work.

So I downloaded the program "mountmanager", set the partition (which remains unchanged from my previous installation) to automount at /media/multimedia, and rebooted.

I am now unable to log in with my admin account. After I enter my password, the screen turns black, then a couple of lines are displayed - among them "starting bluetooth" - and then I'm back on the login screen.

Now, here's the killer: when I log in as a guest instead, everything is hunky dory! Unity loads without a problem, and the extra partition is properly mounted and accessible!

So really, the only thing that's wrong is that my main account is fried. Any idea how I can un-fry it?

Thanks!

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-10-14
Sounds like you are also effected by this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859233](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1859233)

---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2011-10-14
NICE! That's exactly what is happening to me. Thanks, man. I will try the solutions from that thread when I get home tonight.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-10-14
> **The Bright Side said:**
> NICE! That's exactly what is happening to me. Thanks, man. I will try the solutions from that thread when I get home tonight.
You are welcome :)

I would love to know if it works for you as well ;)

---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2011-10-15
Deleting .Xauthority solved my problem! For now. :-) Thanks again.

---

