---
title: "fstab help - ext4"
date: 2009-12-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cheesypoof on 2009-12-06
I have created a new ext4 partition(sda7) for which the purpose is to house my /home directory. That way I can reinstall without worrying about backing up my files all the time. By the way, the main partition(sda5) with the system files was an ext3 which was converted to an ext4. My fstab currently looks like this...

> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=528544fb-3827-41ec-a4d2-3435b0d668f5 / ext4 relatime,errors=remount-ro,noatime,nodiratime 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=692dd017-25ef-4936-8554-49df20168a5e none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/LocalDisk ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0

I want to add my partition but I am unsure of the parameters to put on it. I am stuck at this point:

> # Entry for /dev/sda7 :
/dev/sda7 /home ext4 [COLOR="Red"]**?**[/COLOR]

What do I put in place of the question mark? I would copy my previous ext4 partition parameters, but I do not think that is a full performance one since it was a conversion.

---

### Post by falconindy on 2009-12-06
'defaults,relatime' is fine.

---

### Post by cheesypoof on 2009-12-06
Are these the default karmic ext4 fstab parameters that are used on a new install? If not, what are they? Thanks for helping btw falconindy. I have no reason to doubt you, but hopefully one more person can confirm.

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2009-12-06
The default mount option for an ext3/4 partition in Ubuntu (>=8.04) is relatime.

[thread=283131]How to fstab[/thread]

[http://lwn.net/Articles/244829/]("http://lwn.net/Articles/244829/")

---

### Post by falconindy on 2009-12-06
I don't know what the defaults are for non root drives on Karmic, but I assure you these are safe parameters. default **usually** expands to the following, but it depends on the distro:

rw - read/write
suid - allow modification the owner/group permission bit
dev - interpret special device files as such (e.g. /dev)
exec - allows execution of binaries
auto - automount partition
nouser - don't allow users to mount partition
async - asynchronous write

'relatime' just reduces frequency that access/modified times are written to disk.

---

