---
title: "Strange BOOT screen and terminal, low graphics, doubling screen, strange colors"
date: 2010-06-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Svens on 2010-06-10
Hello everybody!
I tried to find a similar problem, but I could not. Hope that someone will be able to explain my problem to me and help to fix it.

The problem is that my BOOT screen and all my terminals (ctrl+alt+F1, F2...) are:
[B]1) with strange resolution;
2) with screen doubling itself;
3) with very strange colors.[/B]

[SIZE="1"]My boot screen shows up only in the last moments when booting is almost done, but I think that it is a different problem, not related to this (graphic cards driver loads late). [/SIZE]
[SIZE="1"]But [/SIZE]when my BOOT screen shows up, it is very strange. After BOOT screen passes by - everything is OK - desktop is with the right resoulution and right colours, no doubling.
**My Terminals look the same** as the BOOT screen. It is impossible to work with it. 

I have HP Pavilion DV6698en laptop with **nVidia 8400gs M** graphics card. 
I know that when I just installed Ubuntu 10.04 it was all right, but I don't know in which moment it turned out to be like this, but it would be now impossible to trace it, because that moment is at least month ago.

I am attaching images with what I see while BOOTing and in terminals.

I hope that someone will be able to help.
Thank you!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-06-10
into a terminal, run:

metacity --replace
sudo dpkg-reconfigure plymouth

sudo rm -f /etc/X11/xorg.conf

into synaptic (system admin synaptic), check that: nvidia-current, nvidia-current-modaliases, nvidia-common, nvidia-settings are installed

reboot, and check driver activation into : system admin hardware driver, nvidia-current might be activated

---

### Post by Svens on 2010-06-10
Thank you for your answer!

Unfortunately after doing everything as you told, there was no changes. (Except that I needed to run " sudo nvidia-xconfig " to make my xorg.conf again, because it wasn't created automaticaly and after reboot I had 640*480 resolution).
But there is a difference between my old xorg.conf and my new xorg.conf. But difference can't be felt.
Old one:
> 
Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection
Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Default Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection


New one:
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Sun Nov  8 21:50:38 PST 2009
Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection
Section "Files"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection
Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection
Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection
Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

[B]
But the problem still remains! Any new suggestions?[/B]

---

### Post by Svens on 2010-06-10
I don't understand how did that happen, but there's what I did:
I looked in this thread that it on top of all threads: Known Lucid Lynx issues
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469475](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469475)
and there I saw a fix for problem that I mentioned in first post [SIZE="1"](My boot screen shows up only in the last moments when booting is almost done, but I think that it is a different problem, not related to this (graphic cards driver loads late)[/SIZE], and made a fix to it:
```
Other graphics card users including nVidia may get a black screen with flashing cursor and then a very short duration plymouth.
https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...th/+bug/540801
One fix for this is to create this file.
Code:
[CODE]gksu gedit /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/splash
```
and add this option FRAMEBUFFER=y, save the file.
Then
Code:
```
sudo update-initramfs -u
```
[/CODE]

and: **WOW!** It fixed both things - the BOOT screen AND the identical Terminal problem! Of course, it is not so important HOW right now, but still - I would like to know if someone could explain how did this file fixed these problems. Specialy because I don't understand the connection between "splash" (as you can see in the new-made file directories location) and the terminals.

Thank you dino99 for trying to help! :)

---

