---
title: "11.10 -- Global menu problems in Chrome and LibreOffice"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by n125 on 2011-10-22
I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 11.10 tonight and I have noticed two issues in Chrome and LibreOffice, which I've outlined below.

Here is the issue in Chrome:

[http://img5.imageshack.us/img5/8044/chromea.png](http://img5.imageshack.us/img5/8044/chromea.png)

As you can see, there are two sets of window buttons. **Is there any way to make Chrome's window buttons disappear?** I am running the latest developer build of Chrome. This did not happen in 11.04. Switching between Chrome's "Use system title bar and borders" and "Hide system title bar and use compact borders" options does not help. (I have the latter checked in this screenshot.)

EDIT: Solution to Chrome issue: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/65645/chrome-14-unity-integration](http://askubuntu.com/questions/65645/chrome-14-unity-integration) I wonder why this option isn't even listed in the preferences.

Here is the issue with LibreOffice:

[http://img542.imageshack.us/img542/7783/screenshotat20111022020.png](http://img542.imageshack.us/img542/7783/screenshotat20111022020.png)

Here, well, it's just a mess. There is an ugly black margin on the right. If I maximize LibreOffice over top of some other program, I can see the right side of that program in this margin. This margin only appears in the LibreOffice "hub", and not in the individual programs like Writer, Calc, and so on. The window buttons are isolated in the top-left corner. **Is there any way to fix the right margin issue, and is there any way to enable the global menu so the window buttons don't look out of place?**

Oh, and also, does anyone know of a theme like Minty Freshness for 11.10?

Thanks.


[SIZE=1]For some reason I'm finding the transition from 11.04 to 11.10 more frustrating than the one from 10.10 to 11.04. :\ Some things are just so nicely polished, and other things look  like they were coded by someone just learning GUIs.

EDIT: Rewrote for clarity.
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by galois1 on 2011-10-22
I have the same issue with LibreOffice. If you do not use the global menu of LibreOffice then you will not have trouble (that is, if you run the apps directly). Sometimes, I had some problem when I ran Writer, Calc, etc. in a maximized window. But it seems to be already fixed.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-10-22
> **n125 said:**
> ...
Here is the issue with Libre Office:

[http://img542.imageshack.us/img542/7783/screenshotat20111022020.png](http://img542.imageshack.us/img542/7783/screenshotat20111022020.png)

Here, well, it's just a mess. The global menu does not work and there is a black margin on the right. Is it possible to make it so that Libre Office DOES NOT use the global menu? It still just seems buggy so I would rather not have to deal with it.
...

How did you install the global menu for LibreOffice? I understand it's not present by default.

---

### Post by n125 on 2011-10-22
Yeah sorry, I wrote this post while I was quite tired and I realize now, after rereading it, that it doesn't make much sense, so I edited it for clarity.

Essentially Chrome doesn't appear to realize that the window buttons have moved so it inserts its own, resulting in two sets of window buttons. Also, the LibreOffice "hub" has a buggy margin (see screenshot) which is really jarring. So I was wondering if there's any way to fix these two issues.

Sorry for the misunderstanding.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2011-10-23
> **n125 said:**
> ... Also, the LibreOffice "hub" has a buggy margin (see screenshot) which is really jarring. So I was wondering if there's any way to fix these two issues.
...

I too get a weird screen I do not like when I click on the LibreOffice icon. I don't know where the fault lies. But I "solved" it by having LibreOffice Writer and LibreOffice Calc in the Launcher and clicking on either of those depending on my needs.

(I've never been in the habit of clicking just LibreOffice and so cannot comment whether this oddity was present in 11.04.)

---

### Post by shadytv on 2011-10-23
for the first one try right clicking on the top of the browser and check "use system tile bar and boarders"
EDIT: sorry i didnt read very well i see that doesnt help
for the second one sorry same problem :(

---

### Post by gamblor01 on 2011-10-28
> **n125 said:**
> 

EDIT: Solution to Chrome issue: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/65645/chrome-14-unity-integration](http://askubuntu.com/questions/65645/chrome-14-unity-integration) I wonder why this option isn't even listed in the preferences.



This seems to be only a temporary solution -- at least for those who do NOT want the gnome buttons.  The solution works until I close that browser window.  As soon as I open another one it will launch in full screen mode.  I then double-click the menu bar to get out of full screen mode and consequently 2 sets of buttons are back.  I again have to right-click on Chrome to enable and then disable "Use system title bars and borders".

I'm not sure if this is an issue with Chrome/Chromium or if it's an issue with Ubuntu (probably Unity?).  I suppose I'll just file a bug report with Google and in Launchpad and whoever isn't responsible will just close it anyway.

---

### Post by rg4w on 2011-10-28
When changes in a distro require changes to an app, app proliferation slows.

The relative scarcity of apps for Linux if frequently cited as a main impediment for adoption.

Connect the dots, reconsider priorities....

---

### Post by ben.friedberg on 2011-12-24
I'm having the same issue.  Does starting / stopping chrome from the command line fix it?  has anyone done directory listings before / after to see what changes when prefs change?

---

