---
title: "8.10 to 9.10"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ffxigotenks on 2009-10-29
I decided not to upgrade to 9.04 for some issues I was having, and now I'd like to try 9.10, is there a way for me to upgrade from 8.10 to 9.10 without having to upgrade to 9.04 first? my update manager only offers an update to 9.04

---

### Post by hwttdz on 2009-10-29
You might be able to if you install update manager core and then do 
sudo do-release-upgrade -m desktop
Not sure though. (see here [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/HardyUpgrades), and scroll down to where you get to the non-contigious updates)

It is recommended to do it stepwise.  Next best thing might be to burn a cd, and reinstall if you have your home on a separate partition and wouldn't mind losing your root drive changes from default (i.e. user installed programs, changes to root drive conf files...)

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-29
I suggest you do the trying on a livecd first. If you dont have those issues there, and you are sure you want to take the plunge, then upgrading to 9.04 first is the only way I know off (short of a fresh install)

---

### Post by ffxigotenks on 2009-10-29
well crap... I was hoping not to have to do that.. oh well... thanks anyway

---

### Post by ffxigotenks on 2009-10-31
ok I was having some issues with ATI drivers since even though I have an all in wonder video card, it's classified as an X1300 card which is now a "legacy card".. I want to upgrade to 9.10, lock the packages referenced here 

[http://tan-com.com/posts/technology/fix-ubuntu-904-ati-driver-issue](http://tan-com.com/posts/technology/fix-ubuntu-904-ati-driver-issue) 

I'm wondering...
a) would the upgrade follow my package blacklisting?
b) any foreseeable problem to make things go smoother

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-31
> **ffxigotenks said:**
> ok I was having some issues with ATI drivers since even though I have an all in wonder video card, it's classified as an X1300 card which is now a "legacy card".. I want to upgrade to 9.10, lock the packages referenced here 

[http://tan-com.com/posts/technology/fix-ubuntu-904-ati-driver-issue](http://tan-com.com/posts/technology/fix-ubuntu-904-ati-driver-issue) 

I'm wondering...
a) would the upgrade follow my package blacklisting?
b) any foreseeable problem to make things go smoother

I would strongly recommend not trying downgrading your X. It may or may not work with 9.04 but over time you can be sure things will no longer work. If the opensource ATI drivers dont work well enough for you, Im afraid you better stick with ubuntu 8.10 until you upgrade your videocard.

---

