---
title: "10.04 painfully slow"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sherbert on 2010-04-30
I just upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 and it is nearly impossible to use now because of just sheer SLOWNESS. Karmic ran fast and flawlessly with multiple applications open at once, but after upgrading to Lucid it can take several seconds (10-15) to complete even the smallest tasks like opening the gnome menu. Scrolling in firefox is especially slow (and annoying). Compiz as well is not usable due to slowness.

---

### Post by Owen.C93 on 2010-04-30
> **sherbert said:**
> I just upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 and it is nearly impossible to use now because of just sheer SLOWNESS. Karmic ran fast and flawlessly with multiple applications open at once, but after upgrading to Lucid it can take several seconds (10-15) to complete even the smallest tasks like opening the gnome menu. Scrolling in firefox is especially slow (and annoying). Compiz as well is not usable due to slowness.
Whats going on in resource monitor?

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2010-05-01
I'm having the same issue on my laptop. I updated yesterday (I should know better by now) and now it is very sluggish.
Both CPU's are hovering around 70% use. Top shows xorg taking ~20% CPU followed by indicator-applet and indicator-sound-service both taking another 10% each.
It has 2 AMDX64 TL-56 procs and 2 GB ram - even though system monitor only reports 1GB.

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2010-05-01
@ Sherbet, what are your system specs? Are you using 32bit or 64bit Ubuntu?

@ elj4176, are you using Ubuntu 32 or 64bit?

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2010-05-01
uname -a shows 64 bit

Linux pilsner 2.6.32-21-generic #32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 08:09:38 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

As soon as I killed the indicator-applet my cpu's use dropped significantly. I also run pidgin instead of empathy so maybe that was causing the issue with that applet?

Thanks for the quick response.

---

### Post by The Thunder Chimp on 2010-05-01
Did you reboot the computer at least once?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-01
> **elj4176 said:**
> uname -a shows 64 bit

Linux pilsner 2.6.32-21-generic #32-Ubuntu SMP Fri Apr 16 08:09:38 UTC 2010 x86_64 GNU/Linux

As soon as I killed the indicator-applet my cpu's use dropped significantly. I also run pidgin instead of empathy so maybe that was causing the issue with that applet?

Thanks for the quick response.

sudo dpkg-reconfigure indicator-applet
sudo dpkg --configure -a
sudo apt-get install -f

install gconf-editor and use it

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2010-05-01
Yes I have rebooted. 

I ran the commands Dino posted and will see how that works. I already have gconf-editor installed but I don't follow why you are telling me to use it for this issue.

---

### Post by The Real Dave on 2010-05-01
> **elj4176 said:**
> Yes I have rebooted. 

I ran the commands Dino posted and will see how that works. I already have gconf-editor installed but I don't follow why you are telling me to use it for this issue.

Neither do I. Perhaps he misposted.

The command line system monitor htop is great, and will show what is using your CPU. (System Monitor afik only shows that user's usage)]

To install open a terminal [Applications>Accessories>Terminal] and type

[COODE]sudo apt-get install htop[/CODE]

Hit enter, enter your password, hit enter again and it'll install. [You may have to click Y also]

After that, run it in terminal with 

```
htop
```

and it'll show whats using up your CPU. Post a screenshot here and maybe someone can help track why this is happening.

Also, is this a fresh install or an upgrade?

---

### Post by elj4176 on 2010-05-01
I use top all the time but haven't tried htop yet. I'll give it a go and see what is going on.

I have been playing with adding/removing the indicator-applet and it seems the sound-service is tied to the messaging applet. Once I kill both of those then the cpu use drops. 

I'll try htop and be beack on later to post if I figure something out. For now I'll just remove the indicator-applet.

---

### Post by fyo on 2010-05-01
Benyt, you might want to start a new thread dedicated to your issue as it does not seem to be related to the one discussed here.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-01
> **fyo said:**
> Benyt, you might want to start a new thread dedicated to your issue as it does not seem to be related to the one discussed here.

New thread created for Benyt

---

### Post by nmcgrew on 2010-05-01
I upgraded to 10.04 two days ago as well and Firefox esp is extremely jumpy and slow since the upgrade.  Other programs are slow to open as well and the boot time that was supposed to be greatly increased is actually much slower.

Edit... I just ran the code mentioned earlier and have uploaded the screenshot to this post.

---

### Post by sherbert on 2010-05-01
2.2 GHz processor
1GB RAM
ATI Radeon X1600 PRO 512MB

resource monitor shows cpu usage steady at idle, then when dragging a window or anything like that it spikes up to about 60% but never really goes any higher than that.

I've rebooted several times. I'm currently using my XP partition so I can get stuff done.

Also I noticed that while its booting sometimes it flashes a screen with multicolored lines covering the entire screen.

---

### Post by sherbert on 2010-05-02
halp.

oh yeah and 32 bit

---

### Post by sherbert on 2010-05-03
So just for the heck of it I installed fglrx.

Resulted in: Extremely low-res splash screen, then when ubuntu booted the resolution went back to normal AND... everything runs smoothly!

BUT: Now I can't enable desktop effects and I know it's because of fglrx.

Do I really have to choose now between not having any desktop effects or having crappy video?

---

