---
title: "10.04 - crashed 10 times today."
date: 2010-06-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-05
I've been using LInux for a long time, and this is the first time this has happened to me.
I installed 10.04 today and so far it has crashed a lot of times.
It's not so much of a crash but, the screen goes blank, the top half of the screen keeps flashing with white and black lines hanging vertically.
I can't do anything when this happens, I just have to press the tower, and it brings me down to the shutdown screen.

Any ideas...?

Dell Dimension 2400, 2GB ram is the only hardware change.

---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-05
Bumping - My computer crashed about 3 minutes after I posted this.  I'm going to show you a picture of what comes up onto my screen now too.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-06-05
hi there~

many people with these dells have/are experiencing this. 

 The exact same thing was happening to me until about 2 weeks ago..
when it just stopped doing it.  
Now it is running perfect. 

 I really dont know how or why it suddenly "fixed itself".
But i posted a thread about it, here~ [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1494141](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1494141)

The only thing I can remember doing before it "fixed itself".. is running 
> sudo apt-get update
in the terminal. 

 again, I dont know if this is what did it or not,
But My PC was doing the exact same thing as yours.. for a couple/few months..
and I was getting to the point where I couldnt handle it anymore..
and then it stopped. 
Strange. lol

 Ill look around and see if I can find anything else..
but 'We', as in, everyone this is happening to..
are pretty sure that it is a graphics card issue.

Sorry I couldnt be more help...
Ill stop back if I find anything else, or think of anything else.

---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-05
Thanks , I tried the update.  Now to just wait and see I guess.
It's really annoying and can't watch a movie or anything...

I done the update thing and now I guess it's just time to wait and see.

THank you for your help :)

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-06-05
> **deceptionpoint said:**
> Thanks , I tried the update.  Now to just wait and see I guess.
It's really annoying and can't watch a movie or anything...

I done the update thing and now I guess it's just time to wait and see.

THank you for your help :)

No problem. 
I really hope it helps,
you are right. this is ***_very_*** annoying!
and it always seemed to do it at the most inopportune times..
Like right when I had finished writing a post or an email, 
before I could hit send, bang.. it would crash and go black, with white vertical lines flashing at me. 

  Or right when i had finished a song in LMMS~ and before I could hit 'save'.. bam, it would crash and id lose it all. :(

Patience truly is a virtue~ at least in my/this case...lol
I was seriously ready to pull my hair out it was happening soo often~  and just about, to the day..
 that I was ready to say "forget it!, Im going back to 9.10" ~ 

It stopped happening, 
and it has only happened once since then.. and that was when I tried to install a bunch of things out of curiosity (gloobus preview and cover gloobus) , through the terminal...

 and i had thought I "broke" it again, and was going to have to deal with this again.  But it's been about a week since then, and Ive not had one crash yet. 


 Ohh, almost forgot...
The only problem i have now is,
when I try to run "Stellarium"~
when I try to open it,
I get the same exact crash, and cant get out of it unless i do REISUB. 

 But even when I try to overload the PC, doing anything else.. no crashes. 

 I look forward to learning if the command helped you or not. 
thanks.

---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-05
Thank you.
I tried the update thing and it hasn't occurred since :D 
Thanks!

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-06-05
very cool. 
you're most welcome. 
I will find it amazing if that's all it takes to fix this. lol :D

Let's give it until, say.... tomorrow at about this same time.. 
and if it still has not happened again.. post back here and let us know,
then we will try to get the word to others having this problem, 
and we can find out if it truly is the fix! lol

I think there are still quite a few dealing with this. 
(or not dealing, and already gave up?).. in which case if they did give up on lucid because of this..
they should now be able to use it.. maybe?

 I dont know, 
But Im like you mate..
a big noob! lol :)

 thank you. <3

---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-07
Crashed twice today...

This really sucks...

Can any admins help.

This is ruining my experience with one of my favorite Operating Systems,

---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-08
It done it again!

This time I was working on a really important document

Seriously, this is really annoying me and ruining my experience, I've used Ubuntu before, and I don't want to go back to Windows, but it's not looking like I have much choice here.

Can anyone give some suggestions on how to fix this, seriously, anyone?

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-06-08
n00b!  

lol, just kidding. 

Sorry it's not fixed. 
I'm not sure what else to try...
and Admin definitely doesn't have any other ideas. 
at least i havent seen them be able to provide anything substantial for this. 

Would you really have to go back to windoze though?
Couldnt you just re-install 9.10 or something?
or there are other linux distros out there. 

Sorry that might have to be the case, 
and I guess ive no idea how mine was "fixed". 

dang.... :(

---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-08
I'm going to hold out a little longer, I'm hoping for a response from a developer or an admin or something, anything.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-06-08
> **deceptionpoint said:**
> I'm going to hold out a little longer, I'm hoping for a response from a developer or an admin or something, anything.

probably a wise decision.
just don't hold your breath, friend. 
I don't foresee it.
any of it. (developer or admin having an answer).
sorry to seem negative on the issue, 
I just haven't seen even one person come up with a real fix yet. 
and Ive searched high and low.

---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-08
I've experinced 4 of these crashes within 3 minutes.
Every time I booted back in I'd get it again.
This is becoming quite un-real.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-06-08
```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade
```

Then look in sys>admin>hardware drivers.

Could be graphics card or driver. Not sure.

---

### Post by deceptionpoint on 2010-06-08
I tried this and it upgraded 18 packages.

When I Went to the drivers it just said there are no proprietary drivers in use on my system.

(it's said that since I first used Linux 2 years ago) 

Time to wait and see this this work now 

Thanks for your help, i'll report in tomorrow if I don't get a crash.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-06-08
Missed the bit about the ram first post. Try taking it out and put it back a couple of times. You could also run the memtest from grub or a livecd.

---

### Post by captain22275 on 2010-06-08
sometimes ubuntu does not recognise drivers or if it does they are 3rd party no the official ones. what is your graphics card make as both ATI and Nvidia provide linux drivers.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2010-06-08
> **deceptionpoint said:**
> I've experinced 4 of these crashes within 3 minutes.
Every time I booted back in I'd get it again.
This is becoming quite un-real.

when I was experiencing the same crashes..
Upon restart~ If I didnt give it about a minute after the desktop would appear.. and just started clicking things, it would do the same thing. 

try to give at least a minute or so after showing the desktop, before you go clicking anything.

@ Captain~
Im pretty sure the graphics card is  
> 82845G/GL[Brookdale-G]/GE Chipset Integrated Graphics Device
             vendor: Intel Corporation

Lots of threads on this, with all of this info.
but still no fixes. 

mine just stopped crashing on its own, apparently.

---

