---
title: "9.10 Boot Issues"
date: 2010-02-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oni5115 on 2010-02-24
Boot sequence is basically:
1) Grub Menu.
2) Blinking Cursor 4-6 times.
3) White Ubuntu Logo on Black Screen.
4) Colored Ubuntu Logo on a brownish screen with a loading bar.

It seems to be rather random, maybe 1 in 4 boots that it locks up on step 2.  I just get a blinking cursor forever, until I press the reset button.  Then it usually loads just fine.

It does NOT seem to be Ubuntu specific.  I had this exact same thing happen with Arch Linux, hence I switched over to try Ubuntu.  (Well actually, it was because Arch had way newer Xorg than ATI's catalyst could handle and it was a giant pain in the butt to get working, but I digress.)  

In Arch I actually could see everything happening during the boot process, and the lock-ups generally happened at 2 spots.  During the ACPI pre loading it would sometimes say it needed more time to generate UUID's of devices, and that I should possibly load with some special kernel option to add a delay.  Sorry, I can't really be very specific since I erased Arch and put in Ubuntu over it.

The other one I can't recall, but I know it was during the time you start loading background processes.  Sorry, but I just can't recall which one it was stopping on. :(

Is there a way to force Ubuntu to show what's loading?  That way I can have a better idea of what is causing it to stop.

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-02-25
Assuming you're using Grub2, you could edit /etc/default/grub and change:```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"
```to```
GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=""
```Then there will be no splash screen covering up the messages, and no "quiet" command telling there to be no messages.  Then you have to run ```
sudo update-grub
```for the new settings to take effect.

---

### Post by artieman1 on 2010-03-01
I do not know how to create a new topic, but this seems to be as close as I can find.

I am running

DISTRIB_ID=Ubuntu
DISTRIB_RELEASE=9.10
DISTRIB_CODENAME=karmic
DISTRIB_DESCRIPTION="Ubuntu 9.10"

I have a 4 Port KVM (Avocent SwitchView USB)

I have a PS2 keyboard and mouse (Wireless Logitech) connected and the machine is an Asus AMD64 ...

Here is the problem.  If I connect a USB kayboard directly to the machine, it will boot just fine.

If I connect the USB connection from the Avocent KVM the machine will not boot 100% of the time.  I have been dealing with this for some time (about a year?) or more.  I simply make certain that if the machine is (has a chance) to reboot, I disconnect the keyboard connection (USB...) and no problems.  If I forget, I have no access to get it back up until I get home which is a pain.

I have researched Google and here and find many references to making some changes to the Grub loader and have had no success.

Is there any log files that might tell me what is going on?  If I make the Grub loader verbose output I see it hangs on the USB driver (I think)....  Please help...

---

### Post by quixote on 2010-03-02
Yes, it sounds like the boot process chokes on a bad driver for the USB keyboard.  I'm not sure how you fix that, and since it's a different question, the best thing would be to start over in a new topic.  All you need to do that is to click on the "New Thread" link which is near top on the left side when you look at the list of questions in any forum.

---

