---
title: "11.10 Misreads Monitor Dimensions"
date: 2011-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by llanitedave on 2011-11-05
I have Ubuntu 11.10 installed on two computers:  A homebuilt desktop with a 19" Samsung monitor and a Dell Vostro 1720 laptop.  On both of these computers I have tried both Unity and Xfce, and they both do the same thing with windows -- they overlap part of the screen.  On the laptop, windows extend past the bottom of the screen, making the lower border and resize corner inaccessible.  On the desktop, which has a proportionately deeper screen, I can get the bottom of the window, but my far-rightmost power/shutdown/settings icon is beyond the screen boundary, making it hard to do those general functions.

For the laptop problem, I can always resize the window, but if I close it and reopen the app later, or if I activate a file save dialog, it's right back to its over-large size again.  It's getting to be a bit of a pain.

None of this happens in KDE, so I'm guessing the glitch must be in GTK.  Is there any configuration I can do to adjust the screen size detection?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-11-06
> **llanitedave said:**
> I have Ubuntu 11.10 installed on two computers:  A homebuilt desktop with a 19" Samsung monitor and a Dell Vostro 1720 laptop.  On both of these computers I have tried both Unity and Xfce, and they both do the same thing with windows -- they overlap part of the screen.  On the laptop, windows extend past the bottom of the screen, making the lower border and resize corner inaccessible.  On the desktop, which has a proportionately deeper screen, I can get the bottom of the window, but my far-rightmost power/shutdown/settings icon is beyond the screen boundary, making it hard to do those general functions.

For the laptop problem, I can always resize the window, but if I close it and reopen the app later, or if I activate a file save dialog, it's right back to its over-large size again.  It's getting to be a bit of a pain.

None of this happens in KDE, so I'm guessing the glitch must be in GTK.  Is there any configuration I can do to adjust the screen size detection?

What happens when **you** manually change the screen resolution to the correct settings?

---

### Post by llanitedave on 2011-11-06
Hi, dcstar -- the only changes I'm able to make to the dimensions are to reduce the pixel dimensions.  The screen type on my laptop comes up as "unknown", with a resolution of 1440 x 900.  I can only lower that, I can't raise it.

I don't have access to my desktop at the moment, so I'm not sure what the settings say there.

---

