---
title: "slow scrolling problem with ati 9250"
date: 2008-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jcup on 2008-04-28
I first want to say... I LOVE UBUNTU!

I'm only a year into linux, I'm a recovering windows user, please be gentle... this is my first post here as well.

Sorry if this post is a little bloated...

Here is what I got Ubuntu 8.04 / ati 9250 256MB PCI/ 512 MB ram/open source driver? (whatever came with Ubuntu 8.04)

I have a onboard intel video adapter that is not in use, no monitor hooked up to it...

It's a pretty fresh install, updated, and I installed a few things

My problem is this, I'm using the open source driver for my ati 9250... Everything, and I mean everything works flawlessly except, when I enable Compiz Fusion I get very, very slow scrolling in firefox, and nautilis, anything that has a scrollbar..... so slow! Other than that, I have a beautiful transparent cube, and all the effects, but I can't use it cause nothing will scroll right, and I have to disable effects....

I have searched hi and low, all over this forum, all over the internet, I see people with similar problems, but none of their solutions helped... I need help.

I've tried installing the proprietary driver in the past and it never worked for me... Envy isn't working right either, I get...

/usr/lib/python2.5/site-packages/apt/__init__.py:18: FutureWarning: apt API not stable yet
  warnings.warn("apt API not stable yet", FutureWarning)

I dunno, I can't think of what other info to include... so here is my xorg.conf

I just know that there has to be something simple to fix this, and if anyone can help me I will be forever greatful, and I will be a ubuntu user for life, and hopefully I can help someone out one day soon :)

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"Intel 815"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"i810"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"Intel"
	Option		"XaaNoPixmapCache"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device1"
	Boardname	"ATI Radeon (fglrx)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:10:0"
	Driver		"ati"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"ATI"
	Option		"MergedFB"	"off"
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen1"
	Device		"device1"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor1"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor1"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "device" # 
	Identifier	"device2"
	Boardname	"VESA driver (generic)"
	Busid		"PCI:1:10:1"
	Driver		"vesa"
	Screen	0
EndSection
Section "screen" # 
	Identifier	"screen2"
	Device		"device2"
	Defaultdepth	24
	Monitor		"monitor2"
EndSection
Section "monitor" # 
	Identifier	"monitor2"
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection
```

thanx in advance to anyone willing to help!

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-04-29
You card is too old to be using the restricted drivers, so uninstall them through EnvyNG.
If you use Envy instead of EnvyNG (which you should have used for Hardy), run
```
sudo envy --uninstall-all
```
Otherwise just uninstall the restricted drivers you installed by using EnvyNG.
Because your xorg.conf is a little mixed up, run this to reset it to defaults:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
```
Now make sure you restart X if it doesn't do it for you (CTRL+ALT+BACKSPACE).
Now you can use the workaround to enable compiz with the open source ati drivers - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=764633](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=764633)

If you need further help, post
```
lspci | grep VGA
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
compiz --replace
```

---

### Post by jcup on 2008-04-29
Thanks Rocket2DMn... I'm going to try this as soon as I get home from work tonight... I really appreciate it!

---

### Post by jcup on 2008-05-06
Well, I didn't get to try it until now... been busy.

Anyway, here is where I'm at now.. I have removed any restricted drivers, and I followed the instructions in your link.

But still had the exact same problems... very slow scrolling when compiz is on. 

I tried to remove compize and reinstall, still the same problem...

I also tried removing compiz and reinstalling using this method- 

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=781218&highlight=compiz+newest+plugins](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=781218&highlight=compiz+newest+plugins)

Still no love, all effects work, but very slow scrolling???

What to do?

nothing strange in my xorg.conf... Is there any where else I can look?

It seems to me that if all effects work right, then it should be able to process the scrolling of a web page...

Is my system just too old? Intel Celeron 1.3/ 512MB pc133 ram/ 256MB ati powercolor radeon (pci)/ there is a reason I have ubuntu on this computer and windows on my other one... windows sucks the life out of this computer, while ubuntu runs very quick and nice...

Thanks Ubuntu Community!

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-05-06
Try removing xserver-xgl (if it's even installed), it has caused problems for some people
```
sudo apt-get remove xserver-xgl
```
Also post back the outputs of
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
compiz --replace
```

---

### Post by jcup on 2008-05-07
Hey Rocket2DMn,

Thanks again for trying to help me, I really appreciate this, being new here and all...

I was wondering about the xserver-xgl too, but 
"Package xserver-xgl is not installed, so not removed"

Here is corg.conf-

> Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver        "kbd"
    Option        "XkbRules"    "xorg"
    Option        "XkbModel"    "pc105"
    Option        "XkbLayout"    "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier    "Configured Mouse"
    Driver        "mouse"
    Option        "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier    "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
EndSection

And maybe the will help... the results of compiz --replace

compiz (core) - Fatal: GLX_EXT_texture_from_pixmap is missing
compiz (core) - Error: Failed to manage screen: 0
compiz (core) - Fatal: No manageable screens found on display :0.0

But, ok, when I did that my computer acted like it was going to turn on compiz, but it's like it couldn't fully do it. Could not display the title bar on any open windows...

hmmm...

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-05-07
That sounds to me like the driver might be broken, you can try
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall xserver-xorg-video-ati
```

A google search also showed this is a possible solution (if the above doesn't work):
```
gksudo gedit /etc/profile
```
and add this line to the top
```
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib
```
Then logout and log back in.  If this fails, you can open the file for editing again and delete the line that was added.

---

### Post by jcup on 2008-05-08
Soooo, still no dice...

I just read about 50 pages or so about other people having the same kinda problem, it seems to be happening on lots of different flavors of linux as well. Noone out there seems to have a the right fix.

Some people suggest changing the color depth to 16 insted of 24... that didn't work either. 

I think I'm gonna give up on this for right now, (you can too) and go on computing without any compiz. (I did it for years with windows anyway)

oh well 

sad

Thank you so much for all your help though! I really do appreciate it!

If any one else out there has any thoughts... please help, thanx

jcup

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-05-08
Sorry we couldn't nail it down.  Compiz is overrated anyway, you still get multiple workspaces in Metacity and the effects just slow down your computer anyway (even if you have a good card).  Even if you got the effects to work, you would find the system a little more responsive with them disabled, I don't even use mine unless I'm showing them off.  Good luck.

---

### Post by jcup on 2008-05-08
Well, thanks again.. I agree, while it's nice to have some neat effects, what I'm really happy about is having a good, nice looking desktop that out performs windows anyday!

---

### Post by O.H.Dog on 2008-07-18
I have noticed the same thing and I just looked at the description for compiz. It is an OpenGL effects manager, and the ATI 9250 does not do OpenGL. I noticed a similar effect with "that other OS".

Removing the compiz packages fixed my slow scrolling. Now if I could only get dual monitors to work.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-07-19
> **O.H.Dog said:**
> I have noticed the same thing and I just looked at the description for compiz. It is an OpenGL effects manager, and the ATI 9250 does not do OpenGL. I noticed a similar effect with "that other OS".

Removing the compiz packages fixed my slow scrolling. Now if I could only get dual monitors to work.

I don't think the open source ati drivers support dual head very well, and since your card is too old to use the fglrx restricted drivers, you are probably out of luck in that department.  I was unable to do dual head with my laptop's Radeon 9000.  I adapted by making the most use of multiple workspaces.

---

### Post by BoarderX2k3 on 2008-07-19
The Radeon 9250 supports OpenGL 1.x. I'm in the same situation as you. I'm running the same card, same driver, the compiz effects work fine, but I have the slow scrolling. 

My compiz --replace also reports this line:

```
Checking for Xgl: not present.
```

When I run glxinfo I get ```
direct rendering: Yes
```

Not really sure what this means...

---

### Post by jcup on 2008-07-22
I wish i could have gotten the slow scrolling problem fixed... I tried and tried to get dual monitors working, also to no avail...

Finally, I fixed the problem by getting ahold of a nvidia graphics card, and I use the radeon 9250 in my windows machine... 

My nvidia card works flawlessly, and I would suggest to anyone running linux to go with nvidia...

Sorry I couldn't be much more help...

---

### Post by kiarfuzzy on 2008-08-06
> **O.H.Dog said:**
> I have noticed the same thing and I just looked at the description for compiz. It is an OpenGL effects manager, and the ATI 9250 does not do OpenGL. I noticed a similar effect with "that other OS".

Removing the compiz packages fixed my slow scrolling. Now if I could only get dual monitors to work.

Try this :[http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=806&num=1](http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=article&item=806&num=1)
I have same card and my tv-out works fine (for movies, if that`s what you whant to do .. )

Oh and if you run into troubles with the install go here for a solution 
[http://www.phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?t=4738](http://www.phoronix.com/forums/showthread.php?t=4738)

hope i helped you

---

### Post by imperius69 on 2008-10-15
> **jcup said:**
> Here is what I got Ubuntu 8.04 / ati 9250 256MB PCI/ 512 MB ram/open source driver? (whatever came with Ubuntu 8.04)

I have a onboard intel video adapter that is not in use, no monitor hooked up to it...

It's a pretty fresh install, updated, and I installed a few things

My problem is this, I'm using the open source driver for my ati 9250... Everything, and I mean everything works flawlessly except, when I enable Compiz Fusion I get very, very slow scrolling in firefox, and nautilis, anything that has a scrollbar..... so slow! Other than that, I have a beautiful transparent cube, and all the effects, but I can't use it cause nothing will scroll right, and I have to disable effects....

I have searched hi and low, all over this forum, all over the internet, I see people with similar problems, but none of their solutions helped... I need help.

_Exact_ same problem with me mate, and cant find a solution. 

Anyone found anything that might help?

---

### Post by jcup on 2008-11-07
Sorry for the late reply.... unfortunately, the only thing that worked for me was to get a nvidia card, they have much better support, and much better drivers. 

I have heard that ATI is going to start supporting linux more, so they might come up with a better driver soon, good luck...

---

