---
title: "Suspend, hibernate, and mysterius dvd problem.. i need help"
date: 2007-06-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LaSaDa on 2007-06-13
Hi Ubuntu community.

I have had ubuntu (feisty) installed in a dualboot (vista) on my laptop for quite a while it is working fantastic, except for a few things which i hope you guys will help sort out.

1. Hibernate and suspend not working. When i try to suspend it just hangs with a little marker in the top of a black screen. When i try to hibernate, the screen gets black, and then it just hangs like the suspend. In both cases the only solution is to force a shutdown (by pressing and holding the startup/shutdown button). Can anything be done here? I have 1 gig of ram, and 1.4 gig swap.

2. My cd/dvd drive have been working without a hunch of a problem ever since the install. But then the famous kernel update from .15 to .16 messed up all of my mountings (my fstab) i sorted the mounting out, and now the problem is small. My cd's mount as usual with the icon on the desk, but the dvd's dont. When i insert them totem plays them fine, but they do not show up on the desk.. any ideas?
Heres my fstab:
> # /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=a23001d0-7495-4c0d-a809-6f5922f0c37b / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=eb260069-2636-4497-a2f1-585a62f85cba none swap sw 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/Vista ntfs-3g defaults,locale=da_DK.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sdc0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0

Any help will be much appreciated!

EDIT:
And btw I have Libdvdcss2 installed. (and all other codecs i could see the need for)

---

### Post by LaSaDa on 2007-06-14
any?

---

### Post by LaSaDa on 2007-06-15
please? really need some help here :)

---

