---
title: "9.10 Synaptic/Wireless package"
date: 2010-03-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-03-23
Can someone tell me how I go about pinpointing which package in Synaptic contains my wireless driver? Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-03-23
whats the wireless card?

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-03-23
Normally you can click system--->something I can't remember (I'm using Lubuntu)---->hardware or something close to that. Once you click it a screen will open with possible proprietary hardware drivers. Hopefully your card will be available and you can activate (download/install) the driver, reboot and be set.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-03-23
Atheros 5211 b/g. It works just fine. I need to know where it is so that I can do a reverse minimal install. I have no wired connection available to me and I've tried several different methods of getting wireless to work during a minimal install to no avail. So I figured I'd try working backwards. Start with a normal install and rip its guts out leaving wireless intact.

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-03-23
Can you add the LiveCD to your list of repositories? In synaptic, click Settings===>Repositories and then on the "Other Software" tab click "Add CD ROM". If your wireless worked with the LiveCD then the driver for it is on that CD and can be used to install it via synaptic.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-03-23
> **TBABill said:**
> Can you add the LiveCD to your list of repositories? In synaptic, click Settings===>Repositories and then on the "Other Software" tab click "Add CD ROM". If your wireless worked with the LiveCD then the driver for it is on that CD and can be used to install it via synaptic.

Thanks for the reply hoss. Per my last post, my wireless works just fine. I just need to know which package in Synaptic it would be in.

---

### Post by sandyd on 2010-03-23
> **warfacegod said:**
> Thanks for the reply hoss. Per my last post, my wireless works just fine. I just need to know which package in Synaptic it would be in.

it aint in one.
I believe that its either 
1. built into the kernel
2. loaded into the kernel as a module.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2010-03-23
I'm on Lucid right now so I don't know if this has changed since 9.10. But in Lucid there doesn't not seem to be a package with "Atheros" in the description, so the driver is probably in-kernel. Just make sure you keep Network Manager or there will be no easy way to actually connect the device.

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-03-23
Aren't kernels still packages?:biggrin:

Assuming, for the sake of argument, that its a module loaded into the kernel, as long as I don't delete the kernel itself then the driver would still be installed. Would that be a fair assessment?

---

### Post by warfacegod on 2010-03-23
I couldn't find any Atheros references in Synaptic for 9.10 (why I posted:p). Keeping Network Manager was exactly my plan. Working on the assumption that you and carlee/gary are correct, I'm going to go forward with my evisceration scheme.

Thanks guys. Thanks to TBABill too. You seem to have zest for helping people that has been somewhat lacking in this forum recently!:p

---

### Post by TBABill on 2010-03-24
No problem at all, too bad I went off on a tangent by mis-reading your question. Always nice to help others like I was helped when I started. Kindness usually comes back around :)

---

