---
title: "10.04 bootup and shutdown splash screens very unclear"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Copperline on 2010-05-19
Hi

I have recently upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 and everything is working well so far except
for the fact that the bootup and shutdown splash screens do not look correct at all. 

I can just make out the word 'Ubuntu' but if a file-system check runs at the start I can't read any of the progress information as it is extremely pixelated. I have managed to take a picture of the startup splash screen which can hopefully be viewed here:

[http://www.freeimagehosting.net/image.php?83989bccf7.jpg](http://www.freeimagehosting.net/image.php?83989bccf7.jpg)

The image is of my (one) screen...for some reason 'Ubuntu' is displayed on each side of the screen at the same time. This and the poor quality of the text is how the screen appears ...they are not an errors in my photograph!

I think it's likely that anybody reading this will require some of my system information...please let me know how I can find this out for you if you can.

I think that this link:

[http://reformedmusings.wordpress.com/2010/05/01/corrupt-bootsplash-fix-in-ubuntu-lucid-10-04-lts/](http://reformedmusings.wordpress.com/2010/05/01/corrupt-bootsplash-fix-in-ubuntu-lucid-10-04-lts/)

may help me...but i don't know if this is the correct solution.

Many Thanks
Copperline

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-19
Post in the terminal you have a graphics card that is probably outdated.```
lspci
```

---

### Post by Copperline on 2010-05-19
Hi thanks very much, here is the output of that command (please excuse the enormous long list...I don't know how to display it in a nice little scroll-bar list!):

00:00.0 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:00.1 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 0 (rev a2)
00:00.2 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 1 (rev a2)
00:00.3 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 5 (rev a2)
00:00.4 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 4 (rev a2)
00:00.5 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:00.6 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 3 (rev a2)
00:00.7 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation C51 Memory Controller 2 (rev a2)
00:02.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:03.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:04.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation C51 PCI Express Bridge (rev a1)
00:05.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation C51G [GeForce 6100] (rev a2)
00:09.0 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Host Bridge (rev a2)
00:0a.0 ISA bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP51 LPC Bridge (rev a2)
00:0a.1 SMBus: nVidia Corporation MCP51 SMBus (rev a2)
00:0a.2 RAM memory: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Memory Controller 0 (rev a2)
00:0b.0 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP51 USB Controller (rev a2)
00:0b.1 USB Controller: nVidia Corporation MCP51 USB Controller (rev a2)
00:0d.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 IDE (rev a1)
00:0e.0 IDE interface: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Serial ATA Controller (rev a1)
00:10.0 PCI bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP51 PCI Bridge (rev a2)
00:10.2 Multimedia audio controller: nVidia Corporation MCP51 AC97 Audio Controller (rev a2)
00:14.0 Bridge: nVidia Corporation MCP51 Ethernet Controller (rev a1)
00:18.0 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] HyperTransport Technology Configuration
00:18.1 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Address Map
00:18.2 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] DRAM Controller
00:18.3 Host bridge: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD] K8 [Athlon64/Opteron] Miscellaneous Control
04:0a.0 FireWire (IEEE 1394): VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6306/7/8 [Fire II(M)] IEEE 1394 OHCI Controller (rev 80)

10.04 itself runs perfectly on the graphics front.
I also have an extra graphics card - an NVIDIA 7600GS which I have slotted in to try and should be perfectly suitable...but causes the issue as well.

Many thanks for replying!
Copperline

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-19
Actually I should of had you run this.
```
lspci | grep VGA
```

---

### Post by Copperline on 2010-05-19
No problem - here it is:

00:05.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation C51G [GeForce 6100] (rev a2)

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-05-19
Of course ther are bugs reported with this card and xorg in general there are 2 PPA's that have updated driver set use at your own risk.
[https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates](https://launchpad.net/~ubuntu-x-swat/+archive/x-updates)
This one has some stability, but this next one is a risky one.
[https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~xorg-edgers/+archive/ppa)
You can if you have problems getting a bootup that looks good put nomodset at the end of the kernel at grub with a edit and hit ctrl x to boot.

---

### Post by Copperline on 2010-05-19
Thanks very much - I have a full system backup so I'll cross my fingers and give the drivers a try!

Many thanks!

---

