---
title: "11.10 recovery"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Frazer on 2011-10-22
Hello, can anyone advise me how to edit my Ubuntu ext4 file system via the root shell or even with a live cd?  The file system appears to be only read only and I cannot edit.  I need to amend a line on lightdm.conf as my system will not boot correctly while I was trying to set a different login screen.

---

### Post by mikejonesey on 2011-10-22
readonly fs means it was out of disk space or mounted incorectly... have you changed any grub settings recently?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-10-22
Try remounting the filesystem as read-write:

```
sudo mount <device-file> / -o rw,remount
```

where <device-file> is the device file corresponding to that partition, for example, /dev/sda1.

You can find it out by using the sudo fdisk -l command.

If remounting the filesystem as read-write doesn't work, then you might need to run fsck (filesystem check) on that partition.

---

### Post by philinux on 2011-10-22
> **Frazer said:**
> Hello, can anyone advise me how to edit my Ubuntu ext4 file system via the root shell or even with a live cd?  The file system appears to be only read only and I cannot edit.  I need to amend a line on lightdm.conf as my system will not boot correctly while I was trying to set a different login screen.

If I read you correctly you need to open a terminal and run

gksu nautilus

Be careful with this.

Or gksu gedit filename

---

### Post by Frazer on 2011-10-22
Thanks for the advice, I was able to run of a live cd and get to it in /media/ then gksu allowed me to gedit it.  Is it usual for the filesystem to be read only when in root shell via recovery?  I could not mount the filesystem as anything other than read only and even using nano with a sudo would allow read only.

---

