---
title: "i5-640M vs i7-740QM"
date: 2011-05-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by layers on 2011-05-27
[http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=50179](http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=50179)
[http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=49024](http://ark.intel.com/Product.aspx?id=49024)

So, my laptop passed away, and I need to get a laptop within the next 4-5 days, and I have found these two laptops - both from Sony, and the only noticeable difference is the processors and $100.

I am having trouble picking one because of the following reason:
- 2 cores and 2.5GHz
- 4 cores and 1.7GHZ

So, far I've had the Core 2 Duo - T5200 (2 cores with 1.6GHz), and the only time I have ever been a little annoyed was that sometimes, if you put VirtualBox on full-screen, sometimes it becomes laggy. 1.7G is not much of an improvement over 1.6G, but again, they are different technologies, and I am not sure if such a comparison is even relevant.

Is there anyone who is using one of these two and maybe has any insight on the limits you have noticed? Or what would you go with based on your usage?

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2011-05-27
I think it depends on your usage pattern. There aren't many applications which make effective use of multiple cores, so if you want to run one application really fast, and still run other applications, go with the fast dual-core. If you run lots of applications (actually run them at the same time, not just have them sitting there minimized) the quad-core would be a better choice.

BTW, the i7 should be faster than an i5 of the same rated speed. Also, it will probably use more battery.

I'm an AMD user. On my last build, I picked a dual-processor CPU rather than a slower quad core. If I want a mid-life upgrade next year, I will be able to install a 6-core CPU where each processor runs faster than my current dual-core. As it is, I can browse the web just fine while rendering a video in Cinelerra.

It's probably a good idea to Google the Sony model code and "linux" or "ubuntu" to see if any deal-breakers show up.

---

### Post by akand074 on 2011-05-27
Overall, the i7 is still better. I don't know about the full specs of the machines but the i7 does use a bit more power but it might have a bigger battery to compensate. Really it depends what you are going to do, for low multi-tasking, the i5 might even be slightly faster as it'd be at a higher clock speed more often where as the i7 can be a wide variety of clock speeds based on usage/number of tasks. Overall, and generally, the i7 will likely still be noticeably faster. I'd personally take price/other specs into consideration as well. Just between the two processors, I'd go with the i7 personally.

---

### Post by layers on 2011-05-27
> **gordintoronto said:**
> 
It's probably a good idea to Google the Sony model code and "linux" or "ubuntu" to see if any deal-breakers show up.

Hadn't thought of that, good idea.

---

