---
title: "i386 vs. AMD64 what to choose?"
date: 2007-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tokke on 2007-10-22
Hallo all,

In the past a lot of people adviced me to use the 32bit version of Ubuntu 7.04 instead of the 64bit version because of problems with installing Java, flash, etc...
Is this still the case in Ubuntu 7.10?  I have a HP Pavilion AMD64 laptop with 1 GB RAM.

Thx in advance

---

### Post by kosmic on 2007-10-22
Stay with 32bits, if you want to be free of trouble.

---

### Post by UK-Wobbie on 2007-10-22
> **Tokke said:**
> Hallo all,

In the past a lot of people adviced me to use the 32bit version of Ubuntu 7.04 instead of the 64bit version because of problems with installing Java, flash, etc...
Is this still the case in Ubuntu 7.10?  I have a HP Pavilion AMD64 laptop with 1 GB RAM.

Thx in advance

What make is your pc? 32 or 64? If it's 32bit you be better getting 32bit version of Ubuntu 7.04..
The 64bit will not work on 32 computers only 64 computers!

32bit version of Ubuntu 7.04 is for slow computers with a slow processor... It can be a intel or a amd.


64bit version is for faster computers what are made with a 64bit processor... Like Core 2 Duo, The new Intels... 

When you are buying a new pc it will say on it or the guy at the shop say to him :lolflag:
Or if your buying a Dell it will say on the site!

All 64 and 32bits are speeds in the processors!
The Ubuntus will be the same but the 64 bit will be more faster!

I hope that will help you out. :)

---

### Post by mali2297 on 2007-10-22
I suggest that you install the 64-bit version on a separate partition. That way you can try it out and make your own conclusions. If you don't like it, remove the partition and go back to your old 32-bit Ubuntu.

---

