---
title: "10.04 Instability"
date: 2011-02-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-02-18
All,

Just upgraded to 10.04 on Wed and noticed an instability.  It's intermittent, so can not tell you what triggers it, but when it kicks off a commandline screen comes up, with a command pointing to some battery monitor software, and I have a desktop, so no battery and wonder why my machine has a battery monitoring software, when none should be installed.

Anyway the screen stays up momentarily, then the system tries to go into something like a screen saver and I get all garbage on the screen, loose all ability to control and have to perform a hard reboot to recover from this.

If you have an idea, what I should look at, great!

Thanks!

OMR

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-02-18
Was it a clean installation or an upgrade from a previous release?

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-02-18
sounds like a but to me...[https://login.launchpad.net/fX60dsn5wzvbLQ5b/+decide](https://login.launchpad.net/fX60dsn5wzvbLQ5b/+decide)

maybe report it!?

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-02-19
All,

Well I was having a problem under 9.10 that I reported at:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10465203#post10465203](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10465203#post10465203)

so I upgraded to fix it.  Not sure if they are related, as they manifest themselves differently, but anyway I also found I have additional problems.

Before upgrading I also started having a problem with the windows manager, which I also reported there at the given link (was merged from seperate post).  I find that when I login, I have to go find Compiz, click on it before the window wrappers appear on the open sessions/windows.

Also I have no desktop icons and attempts to add desktop icons all fail.

Not sure if there is a common thread here or if all are independent issues needing addressing one by one?

Sure would like this stable.  Again in 10.04 as in 9.10 when the "System Monitor" is open the system seems more stable.

Thanks!

OMR

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2011-02-19
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> Was it a clean installation or an upgrade from a previous release?
Not to be annoying but to reiterate what TeoBigusGeekus asked: Was this a true upgrade or did you install 10.04 from scratch? Upgrading an earlier install with problems usually results in a new install with problems. Installing a new version from scratch usually results in ... well .. worst case ... a different set of problems :wink:

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-02-19
> **Morbius1 said:**
> Not to be annoying but to reiterate what TeoBigusGeekus asked: Was this a true upgrade or did you install 10.04 from scratch? Upgrading an earlier install with problems usually results in a new install with problems. Installing a new version from scratch usually results in ... well .. worst case ... a different set of problems :wink:

Since you and I did our last inputs at about the same time, hope the last post, I put in, answered all that!

If that is not clear, then this was an upgrade, not a fresh install.  I have over 200 software packages installed, so did not want to start over.  The upgrade disabled 49 of those so having to add them back.

OMR

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2011-02-19
> **OldManRiver said:**
> Since you and I did our last inputs at about the same time, hope the last post, I put in, answered all that!

If that is not clear, then this was an upgrade, not a fresh install.  I have over 200 software packages installed, so did not want to start over.  The upgrade disabled 49 of those so having to add them back.

OMR
With all of the posts in all of the distros, there is one outstanding.  Back up your Home folder and make a clean install.  Also you should be informed 10.04 has been upgraded to 10.04-2  There are so many things that are upgraded from one version to the next you cannot keep up with them.

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-02-19
BobC,

Since only 49 packages did not re-install a good backup that includes packages should keep me from burning the next 4 weeks re-installing.

What backup do you recommend?

OMR

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2011-02-19
> **OldManRiver said:**
> BobC,

Since only 49 packages did not re-install a good backup that includes packages should keep me from burning the next 4 weeks re-installing.

What backup do you recommend?

OMR
Besides the Visible folders in Home, Documents, Music, Etc.  I think if you look in /File System/Var/Cache you will find most of the packages you have installed.  Sorry, been awhile since I looked for them, if that is the wrong address.  There is also a list in Synaptic of the things you have installed if that helps.  I have a new install here so there is not much in Var/Cache now.

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-02-19
I don't know if I'm missing the point but you can get a list of all installed packages by doing```
sudo apt-cache --installed
```

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-02-20
> **Hippytaff said:**
> I don't know if I'm missing the point but you can get a list of all installed packages by doing```
sudo apt-cache --installed
```
Hippytaff,

That command just errors on my system and has no "--installed" option.

OMR

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2011-02-20
List of installed packages:
```
dpkg -l > ~/Desktop/inst_pack.txt
```
The redirection is necessary as the list is huge.

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-02-25
> **TeoBigusGeekus said:**
> List of installed packages:
```
dpkg -l > ~/Desktop/inst_pack.txt
```
The redirection is necessary as the list is huge.
T,

How do I find the 49 that "UPGrade" dropped?

OMR

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-02-25
T,

I see I can add the .txt file to a spreadsheet, now it would be nice to ID the "system" packages, and then add URL or apt-get info to the non-system, so I can write a bash script on these, to add after I kill the system and start the "fresh install".

If you have ideas, or code to that effect, please share.

Thanks!

OMR

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-03-29
All,

Finally doing fresh install with 10.04 tonight, with total reformat of HD.

OMR

---

### Post by Hippytaff on 2011-03-30
Let us know how it went

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-04-02
All,

10.04 did not go well, so had to run 9.10 install, with format, but had saved data and the package restore.

However though version is stable, I get this message when attempting any sudo command:

```
sudo: must be setuid root
```

If we can solve this I think I'm good.  Sticking with 9.10, when fixed as it is obvious 10.04 is still full of bugs.

Thanks!

OMR

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2011-04-28
All,

Really was beginning to think it was the hardware in this box until I finally got the 9.10 re-install working right.  I had saved all the installed apps using the command:
```
dpkg --get-selections > /home/packages.txt
```
then was restoring with the command:
```
dpkg --set-selections < /home/packages.txt
```
I took me several rounds of this until all the packages got properly installed and now the system, without system monitor running, over a week ago and now has been running stable since.

Was still having a problem with the PAM Keyring, but think I have that fixed now.  Will close this if it stays solid for 2 weeks.

Thanks!

OMR

---

### Post by OldManRiver on 2012-06-08
All,

Reviewing all my "OPEN" threads and trying to "CLOSE" them and get them solved.  

I'm numbering them.  This is Thread #32 in my series.

Your help in getting them resolved, closed, SOLVED, is appreciated!

OMR

---

