---
title: "How to install Ubunt on a specific drive?"
date: 2014-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-13
Hello, I want to dual boot Ubuntu ( I am on Windows 7). I went through the installation and when I got to where I want to what drive I want to install it on, I am confused what to do. I have 1 drive that has 30 GB free and I want to install on it. Whenever I click on the drive and click install, it doesn't install.

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-11-13
Hello!

Please be very careful.  At present I am not able to spend any time helping out in any detail with this (but might later this evening).  Please, for the sake of your sanity, don't try to do anything further.  Stop the installer and wait for a bit for someone to help you with this.

The first thing is that you need to understand a bit of terminology:  In the vernacular of the Linux world, you have *one *drive (or device).  The drive designations you see in Windows (C:, D:, etc) are not "drives", but *partitions.  *You have a 30GB *partition *on your *one* *drive/device *that you would like to install to.

The second thing here is that due to what I would consider poor wording in the installer (I would perhaps even go so far as to say "negligent" -- as much as I like Ubuntu, the developers at Canonical made a huge error here in my opinion), you may end up wiping out your entire Windows installation and have a significant emotional event when you discover that it is gone.

Those of us who have been around a while and know what we are doing know exactly what to do, so this bit of a goof up was not even noticeable.  For others, new to Linux, it has often been disastrous.

There are no monsters here, so I don't want you to run away in terror.  You just need to be sure what you are about.

Cheers!

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-11-13
You need to highlight the partition then click on Change.

Then you need to set the file system type, click on the drop down and scroll up, the best file system type is ext4, usually it is at the top.

The next thing is you need to set a mountpoint.
Click on that drop down and set / the / symbol is the root symbol, which will install the full system on that partition.

Something else to ponder is you might want to resize that partition, perhaps take it down 2GB.
The reason to resize is to have space ready for a swap partition.
Why 2GB is because it is a reasonable amount, not too small, and not too big.

After you have set the changes click OK, and the installer will pause while it makes note of the changes.
When it reloads the page you will notice that the partition should now say ext4 and have a mount / .

You should, if you took 2GB aside, notice that a new entry for unallocated is listed.
This you can make into your swap partition.
Do as before and highlight and click change, but this time all you need to do is select the file system type called linux-swap.
Nothing else is needed.
Once that is set, you should be ready to install.

Hope this helps.

Edit: I should note that this is a very generic answer, and that you should doubly make certain that the partition you want to use is not important to your current(Windows) system, and that it does not have any important files in it.

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2014-11-13
So I assume you know your partition sizes.
Anyway, technically you can proceed with the installation on the 30GB drive.
Select it, click Change, set to format, ext4 and mount point as "/".
Now if you click install, you'll be warned to not having any swap partition. But as long as you have plenty or ram you'll be able to run Ubuntu. You can continue with the installation after that.

Now you should be aware that you'll replace you windows boot loader with GRUB after the installation. Also you might be better off having a separate partition for swap. You can create may another 2GB partition just for it before you continue with you installation. Also it is better to install Ubuntu in the last partition /dev/sda4 so that it can be easier to erase/expand depending on situations.

---

### Post by westie457 on 2014-11-13
Totally agree with Qlll's statements. Going to add that as things stand the installation is failing because you are trying to install to a NTFS partition (Windows only). You need to be installing to a 'Ext4' partition.

However before we get to that there might be another problem in the background waiting to make itself known.

STOP the installation and go back to the Live Desktop please. When there open a terminal (pressing the Ctrl+Alt+T keys at the same time is the quick way) type in ```
sudo fdisk -l
``` The 'l' is a lower-case L . Post the output back here in [code] tags. The tags are generated by clicking the # in the panel at the top of the message pane, you can copy from the terminal with the mouse and paste between the code tags.

When we have that info further advice will be forth-coming.

Thank you.

---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-13
Thanks, I will do some research before I proceed.

EDIT: I am trying this on Virtual Box before I proceed to Dual boot. What I am doing is correct? Click on change>Ext 4 journaling file system>mount point: />then click install.

---

### Post by mountainman70 on 2014-11-13
Please give an answer ask by westie457 in post #5. 
Open a terminal and copy and paste:
sudo fdisk -l

Then post the answer. That way nobody will be assuming the size of your HD. For instance is this a 30GB HD with W7 on it 
or is it a bigger HD? 

I dual boot W7 & Ubuntu 14.04 LTS and just added a swap file to my Ubuntu 14.04.

---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-13
Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x5d416293

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *        2048      411647      204800    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
/dev/sda2          411648   885020671   442304512    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT
/dev/sda3       885020672   945829887    30404608    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda4       945829888   976773167    15471640   12  Compaq diagnostics
/dev/sda5       885022720   945829887    30403584    7  HPFS/NTFS/exFAT

Disk /dev/sdb: 2004 MB, 2004877312 bytes
218 heads, 39 sectors/track, 460 cylinders, total 3915776 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xe1e8e1e8

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *        2048     3901439     1949696    c  W95 FAT32 (LBA)

---

### Post by westie457 on 2014-11-14
```
[COLOR=#000000]Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Disk identifier: 0x5d416293[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]/dev/sda1 * 2048 411647 204800 7 HPFS/NTFS/exFAT[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]/dev/sda2 411648 885020671 442304512 7 HPFS/NTFS/exFAT[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]/dev/sda3 885020672 945829887 30404608 f W95 Ext'd (LBA)[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]/dev/sda4 945829888 976773167 15471640 12 Compaq diagnostics[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]/dev/sda5 885022720 945829887 30403584 7 HPFS/NTFS/exFAT[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Disk /dev/sdb: 2004 MB, 2004877312 bytes[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]218 heads, 39 sectors/track, 460 cylinders, total 3915776 sectors[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]Disk identifier: 0xe1e8e1e8[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Device Boot Start End Blocks Id System[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]/dev/sdb1 * 2048 3901439 1949696 c W95 FAT32 (LBA)[/COLOR][COLOR=#000000]
```


Looking at the output above you are good to go, the problem has not arisen.

Now looking at your first screenshot of the installer, in particular at /sda5.

Click change and if possible shrink it by 1 or 2 GB. (This is to allow the creation of the 'Swap space').
Still looking at sda5. In the 'Use as' box select 'Ext 4'. Check the small box below to format the partition. Mount Point is / (for root).

Click 'finish' or whatever is at the bottom, agree to some more prompts and wait a few seconds.
When everything has settled select the small empty partition, click 'Change', here you just need to select 'Swap' in the Use as box. This will be /sda6.
As before follow the 'okay's. If you are happy with this click 'Install Now'. If not, go back and make any other changes you want or cancel the installation.

**Do not use the Installer to change any of the other NTFS partitions**
If you do the consequences can be .quite terrible as far as Windows is concerned. If you are lucky all that will happen is Windows will force a 'chkdsk' at the next boot, if unlucky you will destroy the Windows partition.
[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-14
Do I need to use EasyBCD to add Ubuntuto the bootloader before installing? or it will create a bootloader automatically?

---

### Post by yancek on 2014-11-14
In the Ubuntu installation window, you should see "Device for bootloader installation" and under that the default is /dev/sda.  That will install the Grub booloader to the master boot record and should also detect and create an entry for windows 7.  EasyBCD is a graphical front end which modifies the windows bootloader and is basically Grub modified to run on windows.  Do you have a windows recovery CD or the original installation medium?

---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-14
> **yancek said:**
> In the Ubuntu installation window, you should see "Device for bootloader installation" and under that the default is /dev/sda.  That will install the Grub booloader to the master boot record and should also detect and create an entry for windows 7.  EasyBCD is a graphical front end which modifies the windows bootloader and is basically Grub modified to run on windows.  Do you have a windows recovery CD or the original installation medium?

Yes. I have the windows recovery CD and I have windows 8 CD in case anything goes wrong.

So, it will automatically create a bootloader. So I don't need to use EasyBCD

---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-14
Installation Failed.

I give swap area 2000 MB and then I saw 29000MB free. So I clicked on the 29000MB drive and use as Ext 4 and mount /. After that it went through a crazy process and crashed. 

Right now I formatted the drive back to NTFS. 

Can you please explain the swap area part? If possible a video tutorial (dont have to make one)

---

### Post by nerdtron on 2014-11-14
Start at 11 minutes on this video: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i_4Kh5kE3xA](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i_4Kh5kE3xA)

Remember the minimum requirements for installing Ubuntu would be two partitions, one is the "/" partition and the swap partition. Both will be explained on the video. Other partitions like /boot or /home are optional. By default they will be included on the "/" partition.
Also, if you have multiple hard drives, note where you would install the boot loader. It should be on the hard drive itself like /dev/sda or /dev/sdb and NOT on partitions like /dev/sda3.

---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-14
> **nerdtron said:**
> Start at 11 minutes on this video: [http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i_4Kh5kE3xA](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i_4Kh5kE3xA)

Remember the minimum requirements for installing Ubuntu would be two partitions, one is the "/" partition and the swap partition. Both will be explained on the video. Other partitions like /boot or /home are optional. By default they will be included on the "/" partition.
Also, if you have multiple hard drives, note where you would install the boot loader. It should be on the hard drive itself like /dev/sda or /dev/sdb and NOT on partitions like /dev/sda3.

I got Ubuntu installed but I cant seem to boot into windows. There is no bootloader option to choose Windows

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-11-14
> **Sagar_Patil said:**
> I got Ubuntu installed but I cant seem to boot into windows. There is no bootloader option to choose Windows

Open up a terminal(called terminal)
and run this command
```
sudo update-grub
```
Post the output here.

(Please use code tags, use the reply to thread button and click on the # button in the toolbar)

---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-14
> **deadflowr said:**
> Open up a terminal(called terminal)
and run this command
```
sudo update-grub
```
Post the output here.

(Please use code tags, use the reply to thread button and click on the # button in the toolbar)

```


Generating grub configuration file ...
Warning: Setting GRUB_TIMEOUT to a non-zero value when GRUB_HIDDEN_TIMEOUT is set is no longer supported.
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-39-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.13.0-39-generic
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-3.13.0-32-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-3.13.0-32-generic
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.elf
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Windows 8 (loader) on /dev/sda1
Found Windows Recovery Environment (loader) on /dev/sda4
done


```

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-11-14
If you reboot, do you have an option for Windows, now...

---

### Post by Sagar_Patil on 2014-11-14
> **deadflowr said:**
> If you reboot, do you have an option for Windows, now...

Thank you and all the others who have helped. I have successfully dual booted Linux and Windows 7.

---

