---
title: ".desktop files not recocnised by other applications"
date: 2015-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jwn-2 on 2015-07-16
I want to create .desktop files as links from one folder to another. The reason for this being that I need the real path to the destination file displayed instead of symbolic path created by the normal symbolic links. My .desktop files look like this:

[Desktop Entry]
Version=1.0
Type=Link
Name=Example
Comment=Example link
URL=file:///path to destination folder
Icon=folder

The problem with this is that no application other than the file manager (Nautilis I think) reconise this as a link to another folder. All applications either try to open the .desktop file as a file, or doesn't even display it in the list. Is there any way I can make a .desktop file being reconised as a link to another folder by all applications?

---

### Post by ashley-a on 2015-07-16
Hi, jwn-2!
Just want to check with you:
Have you made the file executable? Some programs will not realize certain files unless they are executable.

---

### Post by jwn-2 on 2015-07-17
Hi ashley-a

.desktop files does not have an option to make it executable. However I have now tried saving the file as a normal file (without the .desktop extension) first, make that file executable and then change the name to file.desktop. That made absolutely no difference however. The .desktop file is still treated as a normal file by all applications.

---

### Post by ashley-a on 2015-07-17
> **jwn-2 said:**
> Hi ashley-a

.desktop files does not have an option to make it executable. However I have now tried saving the file as a normal file (without the .desktop extension) first, make that file executable and then change the name to file.desktop. That made absolutely no difference however. The .desktop file is still treated as a normal file by all applications.
In my experiences, .desktop files can be executable...nevertheless...
try keeping them as a .desktop file and running
```
$ sudo chmod a=r+w+x "path/to/desktop/file"
```
then, try opening a different file browser (not nautilis) and opening the .desktop file through that.

One more thing: Ubuntu comes with a .desktop link in your /home directory. (in my case, /home/ashley). This .desktop is called examples.desktop or something. Try running ```
$ gedit /home/ashley/examples.desktop
``` Make sure to put your username in place of mine, though.
Now you should get a gedit window of the examples.desktop's coding. Change the path of the examples.desktop and save it somewhere else. Then run ```
$ sudo chmod a=r+w+x "path/to/the/edited/examples/desktop/file"
``` to executable-atise it, and try using one of your programs to access the directory you want through that. If that works, try editing more of the examples.desktop file untill it is what you want. Just remember: On your first edit, only edit the path. Then see if it works.
Tell me how that goes :p

---

### Post by jwn-2 on 2015-07-18
Sorry to disappoint you ashley-a, but it still does not work. I have run the cmod on the examples.desktop as well as on some of my own created .desktops, but no difference to the behaviour of other programs to the .desktop files. Could it have something to do with my version of Ubuntu? I am using version 14.04 LTS.

---

### Post by ashley-a on 2015-07-20
> **jwn-2 said:**
> Sorry to disappoint you ashley-a, but it still does not work. I have run the cmod on the examples.desktop as well as on some of my own created .desktops, but no difference to the behaviour of other programs to the .desktop files. Could it have something to do with my version of Ubuntu? I am using version 14.04 LTS.
I run 14.04 LTS, too...
Do you have access to another ubuntu computer? if so, copy/make a .desktop file on that and try it. What I have told you works for me...

---

### Post by jwn-2 on 2015-07-20
Unfortunately I don't have another computer. Is there not some other line or something that should be adde to the .desktop file. Here is one of my files (note that I use my own icon to distinguise it from the normal symbolic links):

[Desktop Entry]
Version=1.0
Type=Link
Name=UbuntuApps
Comment= Goto Ubuntu Applications
URL=file:///home/jonnie/UbuntuApps/
Icon=/home/jonnie/Pictures/Icons/link-change-dir.svg

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-07-20
Whether or not such a file ( a .desktop,  link type) is executable is irrelevant.
While nautilus allows the opening of folders with an other app thru it's context menu this does not extent to links to a folder via such a .desktop file. 
It does allow the use of other apps to open a 'Link to whatever folder'  that is created thru nautilus's context menu > Make Link
 
If you want to have an open with option on  link type .desktop files then try a different file manager like PCManFM though the ^ "Make Link" should suffice for most if not all use cases.

---

### Post by jwn-2 on 2015-07-20
Thanks for your reply mc4man. I am using the standard Make Link because I have no choice at the moment. However each and every link created in this way creates a new symbolic path to the target, which causes me endless problems. They are more of a nuicance than of actual use. I need a link that jumps to the destination as if you have typed cd/destination in a terminal. The shortcuts used by Windows do exactly that, and all other apps recognise them as links to another destination.

---

### Post by jwn-2 on 2015-07-20
O ja, I had a look at PCManFM and the reviews for that does not look good at all, so I prefer not to install that.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-07-20
What is one  specific use case of yours  for a link type .desktop that isn't to go/open to that location in a file manager?

---

### Post by jwn-2 on 2015-07-21
In the file manager (Nautilis) they ALL go to the target location. The problem is with other apps (other than the file manager). For example in Libre Office, when I want to open another file in the target location, and I click on the .desktop file to go to the target, Libre Office opens the .desktop file instead of going to the target. To be able to open the correct file I have to go all the way through the full correct path.

---

