---
title: "~/.bashrc problem"
date: 2010-12-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Party on 2010-12-17
Hi! All i did was open up terminal and type kate ~/.bashrc and i added 2 aliases: 1)alias c='PS1=" ";clear;' and 2)download='sudo apt-get install' and i saved the file.Then when i opened up terminal again this comes up: 

line 1: `-# ~/.bashrc: executed by bash(1) for non-login shells.'

line 1: syntax error near unexpected token `('


I deleted these 2 aliases i set and the same thing keeps happenening.

---

### Post by kgarbutt on 2010-12-17
Hi,

Replace your .bashrc with a nice new fresh one like this:

sudo cp /etc/skel/.bashrc /home/name of your dir

Note: Please add the correct name for your home directory in the above path. If you're not sure what that is, then you can type pwd in the terminal to find out. 

Good luck.

---

### Post by Party on 2010-12-17
That was fast! Thanks!!

---

### Post by kgarbutt on 2010-12-17
Your welcome. Consider it Ubuntu Service with a smile.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2010-12-17
> **Party said:**
> line 1: `-# ~/.bashrc: executed by bash(1) for non-login shells.'

line 1: syntax error near unexpected token `('

The problem is the minus (-) before the hash (#). A line beginning with a hash signifies that the rest of the line is a comment, and should be ignored by bash; since you have (probably accidentally) added a minus sign before the hash, bash is not treating the line as a comment, and as a result is trying to process it, hence the error. Simply remove the minus sign and save the file, the error will stop appearing.

---

### Post by Party on 2010-12-17
oooh i see!(silly me) Thanks everyone!

---

