---
title: "12.04 wont boot properly"
date: 2013-02-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by greatsirkain on 2013-02-04
problem #2 keeping me awake. It takes, sometimes, hours to boot up. It either goes to a black screen after the lubuntu loading screen or it tells me that cryptmathingy wont mount & I can wait longer or skip mounting. If it's not the cryptydoodah that wont mount it's 'temp'.

It always goes to fsck to look for errors at every boot (started after a power cut & now wont stop it), finds them fix's them goes to black screen.

The only way I can get it to boot at all is to keep turning it on and off at the plug (power switch becomes unresponsive) over and over again and keep forcing it to skip the file system check until it eventually works. If I let the check go ahead I get black screen. When I make it skip I eventually get the log in screen where I can select the DE etc 

((this is something in particular that I hated with a passion about windows with scan disk at boot, when I hadn't told it to, so I just started deleting autocheck.exe...where's ubuntu's 'autocheck.exe' because it must be destroyed.))

There's also a long list before the lubuntu loading screen of different kernel versions but none of them work, same goes for a win xp partition that hasn't existed for many months but it's still listed in GRUB.

I hate editing anything to do with GRUB because that's how I broke it last time

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-02-04
Forcing shutdown at power switch then will force a filecheck on reboot.

Best to remember the elephants.
       Never force shutdown your laptop. Use Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B instead. (For newer laptops they don't bother adding the SysRq print to the key, but it's the same as the PrtScr key)

   Holding down Alt and SysRq (which is the Print Screen key) while slowly typing REISUB
R-E-I-S-U-B to force shutdown
A good way to remember it is.
Raising Skinny Elephants Is Utterly Boring ...or
Reboot System Even If Ultimately Broken ...LOL.
[http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/](http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/)

    
If you are having issues, is hard drive failing? I do not know if Lubuntu has Disk Utility but that is what I check to see drive's status.

If you have file corruption issues then encryption complicates it. I do not know about encryption.

You may be able to narrow down issues if just one partition by looking in log files. Again I do not know Lubuntu but I use Log File Viewer. Logs are in /var/log and I look at dmesg first.

---

### Post by greatsirkain on 2013-02-04
one of the drives has been failing for over 5 years but the OS is one the good drive & it only scans one device. I just use the dodgy one as a dump & hope the things I put there stay there.

"Holding down Alt and SysRq (which is the Print Screen key) while slowly typing REISUB
R-E-I-S-U-B to force shutdown"....Thanks for that, that will save me many trips to the wall socket while muttering profanities :P

---

### Post by dan000 on 2013-02-04
> **oldfred said:**
> 
Best to remember the elephants.
       Never force shutdown your laptop. Use Alt+SysRq R-E-I-S-U-B instead. (For newer laptops they don't bother adding the SysRq print to the key, but it's the same as the PrtScr key)

   Holding down Alt and SysRq (which is the Print Screen key) while slowly typing REISUB
R-E-I-S-U-B to force shutdown
A good way to remember it is.
Raising Skinny Elephants Is Utterly Boring ...or
Reboot System Even If Ultimately Broken ...LOL.
[http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/](http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/)


Interesting, I didn't know this.

But, those are terrible mnemonic devices.
"Raising Skinny Elephants Is Utterly Boring" would be RSEIUB, not REISUB. I would never be able to remember it that way.

How about "Raising Elephants Is So Utterly Boring"?

---

### Post by oldfred on 2013-02-05
I have tried it several ways and it seems if you start with r and end with b most of the others are not critical in order.

---

### Post by greatsirkain on 2013-02-05
I broke it again trying to alter GRUB then when testing the boot USB I made. Now my MBR has DoS2 on it so I worked around it & just boot from super grub2 off of another bootable USB. That'll do for now, at least lubuntu boots straight up :)

I don't understand why OS's don't use super grub2 disk it worked flawlessly loading windows or linux, oh well crisis over. Now I have 3 hours to finish an assignment that I haven't started and is supposed to take a week to do

---

