---
title: "386 vs 686"
date: 2006-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tr333 on 2006-06-16
whats the difference between the 386 and 686 kernels?  i read somewhere that pentium3 is a 686 system...  would it be better to install the 686 kernel or would it cause me more problems than leaving the 386 kernel installed?

---

### Post by bruce89 on 2006-06-16
The 686 kernel is optimised for Pentium and the k7 kernel is for AMD Athlons.  The 686 kernel should be better, and allow for more than 1GiB of memory.

---

### Post by Melvil on 2006-06-16
In practice a lot of people (including me) experience performance issues with the 686 kernel, for instance higher CPU usage than on a 386 kernel.
Try both out and decide yourself which one you like better.

---

### Post by clparker on 2006-06-16
The 686 Kernel is designed for Intel Chips higher than a Pentium Pro. You could very well experience a performance boost from a kernel upgrade.

---

### Post by glotz on 2006-06-16
Try it. I'm on the 2.6.15-25-686 kernel and it's working just fine for me. You can have multiple kernels. They're all automagically added to your boot menu. After you see that the new 686 kernel works flawlessly for you, it's a good idea to get rid of the 368 kernels, they'll just take disk space and are by default always upgraded when there's a new version available.

---

### Post by az on 2006-06-16
Yes, for a PIII, install linux-686 and reboot.  If you are happy, you can remove all the linux-image-368 packages.  If you are unhappy (about your kernel) remove all the linux-image-686 packages.  Use synaptic.

---

### Post by awakatanka on 2006-06-16
Only have troubles with the 686 kernel. Random hangup and nee to reboot then. 368 working fine.

But its just a trail and error thing try it and you see if its faster our buggier.

---

### Post by tr333 on 2006-06-17
seems like i should give it a try...

thanks.

---

### Post by tr333 on 2006-06-17
it seems to have cured my startup/boot problems...
with the 386 kernel it used to freeze during the ubuntu splash screen, requiring a few restarts to get it going properly...  haven't had this happen while using the 686 kernel.

---

### Post by mikeandmore on 2006-06-17
compile it yourself if you're not satisfied with your kernel, it won't take too much time on my p4 1.2G...

---

