---
title: "17.10 splash screen problem with multiple monitors"
date: 2018-05-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by goodstuff9 on 2018-05-30
Ubuntu 17.10 (Xorg), gnome shell 3.26.2, kernel 4.13.0-43-generic.  


  I have three monitors attached to my computer.  Everything worked  great, but a couple days ago I noticed that when booting my computer -  with all three monitors turned on - the Ubuntu splash screen appears on  only one of the monitors - the other two remain black.  When the boot  process gets to the login screen, then all three monitors begin working  correctly, and everything is fine from that point on.  


  The monitors are:  

  [h=1][SIZE=4]1  VGA-1
[/SIZE][/h][SIZE=4]  [/SIZE][h=1][SIZE=4]2  HDMI-2 (primary)[/SIZE][/h][SIZE=4]  [/SIZE][h=1][SIZE=4]3  HDMI-3[/SIZE][/h]  The boot splash screen appears only on #1 (VGA-1).  


  My questions:  


  Why is the Ubuntu splash screen appearing on only one of the monitors?  

  
How do I control which monitors the splash screen appears on?  

  
This may sound like a minor problem, but it isn't really:  There are  several users who use this computer, most of them very computer  illiterate.  For them they do not need to use all three monitors.  So,  to keep things simple for them I have set the nicest monitor in the  middle (#2, HDMI-2), and have told them they only need to turn on that  monitor.  The problem is that if they turn on only that monitor and  start the computer, during the minute or so of boot time they see  nothing, only a black screen, (because the splash screen does not appear  on that monitor), so without that visual feedback they don't know if  the computer is starting properly or not.

---

