---
title: "I can not turn off my comp"
date: 2009-12-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by zedi on 2009-12-03
AutoFsck ruined my Karmic. I can not shutdown my comp. It hangs (freezes) with messages: 
*Shutting down ALSA... 
*Asking all remaining processes to terminate... 
*Deconfiguring network interfaces... 
*Deactivating swap...
				then a blinking cursor &#8594; [ - ] forever..............!!!!!

I'm positive its AutoFsck related because it started the day when the only change I did was installing AutoFsck. 
I think, it triggered fsck to check sda3, which is partition on my failing drive (16 bad sectors) and it keeps doing this, even after I removed AutoFsck,, changed the frequency of the checks in fstab, commented out sda3 entry in fstab and did manual fsck on sda3. 

Also I can see before above mentioned messages lots of numbers generated by fsck and message: *not automatically fixing this....

I did a lots of goggling and forums reading last 2 days but nothing worked for me except “alt + REISUO”, which is not really a fix and doesn't work every time (why?).
I'm in dire straits, so please help - anybody!

Zedi

---

### Post by akakingess on 2009-12-03
Not to be condescending, but the ol' sudo shutdown -now from the terminal gets the same result? Also, what partition is sda3 (i.e. what is on it, is it a swap, / , or something else entirely?

---

### Post by zedi on 2009-12-03
Unfortunately it doesn't work, not even "sudo shutdown -h -P now"; hangs on *Deactivating swap...
Answering the queston: - sda3 is my "store" partition, around 245 GB where I'm keeping my stuff as backup. It's on first disk with Winblows - my /home and Karmic + Jaunty are on second disk - sdb.

---

### Post by akakingess on 2009-12-03
> **zedi said:**
> Unfortunately it doesn't work, not even "sudo shutdown -h -P now"; hangs on *Deactivating swap...
Answering the queston: - sda3 is my "store" partition, around 245 GB where I'm keeping my stuff as backup. It's on first disk with Winblows - my /home and Karmic + Jaunty are on second disk - sdb.

Well, then my horrible suggestion that I'm sure you don't want to hear and already know, is to try to backup everything on sda3, and then use Gparted to delete and recreate that partiton, of course reformatting to avoid the bad blocks if possible. Of course, I have also been up about 48 hours straight and might need psychiatric help if that makes you feel any better ;)

---

### Post by zedi on 2009-12-03
THX but no, it's nothing wrong with sda3, I think. As I mention, the disk is failing and I'm going to replace it soon, when I figure out how. It has boot sector and Winblows, so the GRUB will be gone when I replace it with the fresh one. Is it?
Mainly however, I just discovered mine **/var/log is 8.1 GB**. That sucks! It's unacceptable! (for example:  kern.log -  2.9 GB, messages – 2.2 GB; what is going on?) Looks to me like my lovely Karmic is cactus now and needs to be reinstalled.
Unless somebody will help me. Anybody with the knowledge and willingness to help out there

---

