---
title: "12.04 &quot;floating window&quot; when I move it with a drag"
date: 2012-10-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by L a r r y on 2012-10-05
I have found several ways to get around some issues, and I may as well share with you what I have found.

But I would like an answer to how I can make Firefox drag and stop when I stop dragging it with the mouse.  It drives me nuts every time I try to drag the window to where I want it, and release, only to see it keep on going.

I will move it part way off the screen to access something else behind Firefox, then I want to position it back fully on the screen.  So I drag it back to the left side only to see it slide off the left edge and I yank it back only to see it slide off the right edge.  And I still don't have full view of the window.

Please point me to the fix.

OK as promised, some work-arounds that I have found:

The launcher is a joke, next to impossible to call it up with a mouse stroke, so I set the sensitivity slider all the way left and choose instead to use the Super key to raise it when I need it.

I add launch icons to the Desktop for those items I launch regularly and place some more icons in a Desktop Launch Icons folder.

Open the launch icons folder anytime I want the file manager open, and use the bookmarks and navigation tools to select where I want to be.  Open the folder again and repeat the process in a new window, so then I can drag from one to the other.  I can open my web site in one window and drag files between the local file system and the web site.

CTRL-ALT-T gets the Terminal.

Thanks in advance for help with dragging windows.

---

### Post by spaceshipguy on 2012-10-05
I have the same problem when I move a window a ‘long way’, with windows floating to the top of the screen, then sticking to the status bar and expanding to full screen.

I'm sure it's possible to switch off this behaviour, but I don't know how.

When I move a window in the danger zone near the top of the screen I don't release the mouse button immediately. I keep hold of it till I'm pretty sure the window has stopped drifting about. It'll go yellow if it intends to maximise itself. Then I reposition and let go with a slower more precise movement.

Perhaps it has something to do with the mouse accelerating to cover a large distance and forgetting where the pointer is. Just a guess.

---

### Post by L a r r y on 2012-10-05
> **spaceshipguy said:**
> I have the same problem when I move a window a ‘long way’, with windows floating to the top of the screen, then sticking to the status bar and expanding to full screen.

I'm sure it's possible to switch off this behaviour, but I don't know how.

When I move a window in the danger zone near the top of the screen I don't release the mouse button immediately. I keep hold of it till I'm pretty sure the window has stopped drifting about. It'll go yellow if it intends to maximise itself. Then I reposition and let go with a slower more precise movement.

Perhaps it has something to do with the mouse accelerating to cover a large distance and forgetting where the pointer is. Just a guess.

I have a solution for stopping the slide of the car into the ditch on wintry roads, and I tried that solution to sliding windows that don't stop when I stop dragging them.

The rock salt has fouled up the hard drive and I can't seem to get the troublesome window up at all, and the tow truck operator I called on has a large towing bill, but was of no help getting this computer back on the road! :) :)

Seriously, though, maybe someone will give the both of us an answer on how to make a dragged object stick when the mouse is released.

About crashing into the top bar, maybe we could install a guardrail app the window can bounce off of instead, ;) but it's just a snap to drag the top bar down to un-maximize the window.

---

### Post by L a r r y on 2013-02-14
> **L a r r y said:**
> I have a solution for stopping the slide of the car into the ditch on wintry roads, and I tried that solution to sliding windows that don't stop when I stop dragging them.

The rock salt has fouled up the hard drive and I can't seem to get the troublesome window up at all, and the tow truck operator I called on has a large towing bill, but was of no help getting this computer back on the road! :) :)

Seriously, though, maybe someone will give the both of us an answer on how to make a dragged object stick when the mouse is released.

About crashing into the top bar, maybe we could install a guardrail app the window can bounce off of instead, ;) but it's just a snap to drag the top bar down to un-maximize the window.

I like your humor -- rock salt indeed to make the window get traction on the desktop and stop on a dime.

I didn't realize I was reading my own post when I noticed the O.P was describing to a tee an issue I have been looking for a solution to!

I just got through yanking Firefox and seeing it drift too far this way and too far that way.

If anybody has any answers, please share.

---

