---
title: "[13.10] Is there an APP for LIVE -U.S.- TV networks to watch sports and TV shows???"
date: 2013-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by adamzendarski on 2013-12-16
[SIZE=2]Hi,

I want to stream U.S. television channels on Ubuntu, but I can't seem to find an application that can do it.

I want to be able to watch U.S. television networks (in English) like CBS, ABC, TNT, USA, HBO, HGTV, Spike, FOX, CNN, FOX Sports, and ESPN directly from Ubuntu.

Especially sports, I'd really like the ability to watch U.S. sports live on Ubuntu.

Basically I want to know if there is an application like TV-Maxe or SopCast Player for English U.S.A. live streaming television channels available.

**I installed TV-Maxe and liked the idea, but non of the shows are in English.**

If anyone out there knows of an app like TV-Maxe, but has English speaking shows and more U.S.A television networks, please share.

Thank you in advance.

Sincerely,

Adam[/SIZE]

---

### Post by phoyce2 on 2013-12-17
I've looked for this to my friend but to no avail.  If you find anything please post back in this thread!

---

### Post by adamzendarski on 2013-12-18
I'm almost thinking about creating my own and even possibly putting it on Ubuntu's "For Purchase" repository.

How much of a demand is there for one, or in other words, how many Ubuntu users would buy such an application for say, maybe $9.99 USD?

---

### Post by GraysonPeddie on 2013-12-18
Are you talking like 5,000 channels that I used to see in the Internet?

---

### Post by adamzendarski on 2013-12-19
I'm wondering if there's an app for Ubuntu that has LIVE U.S. English-speaking TV channels, like the following image (except, with U.S. channels):

 [IMG]http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-KWKz6287eJs/T9dogC_vWLI/AAAAAAAAJGs/biMLCbeVuSo/s1600/tv-maxe.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-12-19
Goooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaallllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

I don't know of any, but try programming a player and you will quickly see that the content providers are constantly changing the stream credentials.

---

### Post by adamzendarski on 2013-12-19
I guess programming is what I'll be doing then.

---

