---
title: "10.10 moving home directory, sound stops working."
date: 2010-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-10-28
Hi,

So when I try to move the home directory to another point, the sound stops working magically. Well actually the sound still works, but the controls don't work. Here  is what I am trying to do.

My home directory is currently at /home/user
I want it in another independent partition so I copy all the contents from /home/user to /dev/sda5 and then I mount /dev/sda5 to /home/user with rw permissions. Everything works perfectly, even my mozilla profile is copied and such, but the sound somehow disappears. When I comment out the line from fstab that mounts the the filesystem at /home/user, naturally things go back to normal because my folder at /home/user that was earlier becomes my home again. Things are working again. I can go back and forth, doesn't help.

Here are the specs, though they are irrelevant as everything including the sound works as long as I don't try to change my home dir. I'm using a Thinkpad T410. The destination filesystem btw is ntfs for my home directory, I know it's not suggested and most of you here will feel like lecturing me on how i shouldn't be using ntfs, but the point is I want to have my "Desktop" "Documents" "Pictures" "Videos" "Downloads" and everything in the same place for both windows and linux. So if moving the home directory to NTFS is strongly unadvisable, let me know how to move each of these folders to a desirable location. Here's what lspci has to say about audio device. Let me know if any more info is needed. Thanks in advance.

> 00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation 5 Series/3400 Series Chipset High Definition Audio (rev 06)


---

### Post by papibe on 2010-10-28
I don't know if this would help, but make sure you "own" your files when you mount the ntfs partition. If you don't use the right mounting options, ntfs may be mounted in a way that either root, or nobody owns the files.

I hope it helps.
Regards.

Edit: moreover, you can also set the permissions of the files with the ntfs mounting options.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-10-28
K, I'm not much of a linux expert. So can you give me the options that I need to add to fstab to make sure I own the files, or however it is that I can ensure that has been done. Here is the line that mounts the partition in fstab looks like (I decided to use UUID instead of /dev/sda5 after some googling because that seemed like a better idea).

> UUID=2E7E22807E224147	/home/user	ntfs	rw	0	1


---

### Post by papibe on 2010-10-28
Try this:
```
UUID=2E7E22807E224147 /home/user ntfs rw,nosuid,nodev,uid=youruser,gid=youruser,umask=022 0 1 
```
Replace youruser for your user :)

Regards.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-10-28
That doesn't seem to make a difference :(

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-10-29
I've concluded that it is probably a bad idea to move the home direcory to NTFS, and have created softlinks to the important folders in the home folder. However, can someone tell me how to write a script that would at startup create a softlink to every file and folder in my NTFS partition, inside my home folder. The script must also delete deas softlinks for the deleted files and folders. That way, i've practically moved everything to the folder anyway.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-10-29
> **kniwor said:**
> K, I'm not much of a linux expert. So can you give me the options that I need to add to fstab to make sure I own the files, or however it is that I can ensure that has been done. Here is the line that mounts the partition in fstab looks like (I decided to use UUID instead of /dev/sda5 after some googling because that seemed like a better idea).

Foreign filesystems like NTFS are **not** fully compatible with Linux and will **not** work correctly.

You can **only** put /home on a Linux filesystem.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-10-29
Yeah, I guess I've already agreed upon that. Thanks for pointing it out agian.

This changes the nature of my question to the one I posted above.

---

### Post by papibe on 2010-10-29
If you mount the ntfs on /media (keep the options I gave you before). You can use symbolic links to the content you want. For example the Music folder. First, move/backup your data someplace else, and then:
```
$ cd
$ rm -rf Music
$ ln -s /media/MyMusic Music
```
Now your Home's Music folder is pointing to the MyMusic folder on the ntfs partition on /media.

NOTE: the comand "rm -rf" will destroy ALL your data in Music, so make sure your data has been backed up.

Good Luck!

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-10-29
> **kniwor said:**
> Yeah, I guess I've already agreed upon that. Thanks for pointing it out agian.

This changes the nature of my question to the one I posted above.

The "point" is that in /home Linux puts things like config files in hidden files and folders - and **all** of these start with the "." character.

Guess what character is illegal as the first character in NTFS?

---

### Post by cmcx_linux on 2010-10-29
Have you tried deleting the pulse audio cookies? /home/<Your User>/.pulse-cookie and relog? 
Might help.
By default maverick comes with pulse audio enabled, if you move the home, you might be forgetting this cookie.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-10-31
Thanks for the inputs.

@papibe
If you notice I mentioned earlier that I had created softlinks to all the folders of importance already. Here is my problem.

I am using Ubuntu for almost all my tasks these days, but i cannot convert the filesystem of my main partition (that contains all the data) to Ext4 yet. I still want all the files that go into my home folder to invariably go there (/media/Main). Reason is that I do sometimes have to boot into windows and it is frustating to find that a file that I need is on an Ext4 parition.

Here is the solution I expect, and it is not the ideal solution but it will work in my case because these files are usually small. - A script that is executed at shutdown and moves all the newly created files in my home directory to /media/Main and then creates softlinks into the home directory. Additionally, it would be nice to have the script create softlinks to the files in /media/Main in my home folder at startup and clean up all the daed softlinks to files that were deleted while I was in windows.

---

### Post by kniwor on 2010-11-06
No inputs?

---

### Post by papibe on 2010-11-11
I think instead of copying the files you should "sync" them. It would a a good idea to look at the rsync command. Although it has same issues dealing with ntfs partitions, there's always tricks you can use. Check this post about using rsync on ntfs partitions:

[HOWTO: Backup using Rsync to NTFS]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=820425")

---

