---
title: ".ts file not recognized"
date: 2018-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jgw on 2018-10-19
I have noticed that nautilus thinks that a .ts file is a .text file.  I tried to get vlc to open it but that froze my entire system and I had to reboot.  Then, for the heck of it I had Kodi try and it played it with no problem.   This is not a big thing for my and I can live with it but I thought I would post this.  I also tried to reinstall vlc but was told I have the latest and greatest.  The strange thing is that there seems to be updates, to vlc almost every day and, in theory, should recognize and play .ts files.

I also tried to run it through mediainfo to see what that to say.  It said NOTHING (no error, no nothing).  I also tried to reinstall that and was told I had the latest and greatest.

Just thought to mention it as this is a problem that seems to go back years.

I will let this be for a couple of days then I will mark it solved.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-10-19
A MPEG-2 Transport Stream uses the H.264 codec.  So you should also install X.264 with VLC.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2018-10-19
Please don't mark it 'Solved' unless you can provide a solution. The 'Solved' tag is to assist others who may be having the same problem.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-10-19
> I have noticed that nautilus thinks that a .ts file is a .text file. 
 
Change the file association for it in nautilus.
right click on a .ts file and in properties and go to the open with section. then scroll down to your preferred media player and set that as the default.

---

### Post by jgw on 2018-10-19
There is no other option but 'Solved'.  If I don't do that it just hangs around forever.  I have, over the years, wished that there was another option, something like; 'Closed' would do it.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2018-10-19
What do you mean by: 
> If I don't do that it just hangs around forever.
The thread stays around even if it is marked solved so please clarify.

Thanks

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2018-10-19
> **jgw said:**
> There is no other option but 'Solved'.  If I don't do that it just hangs around forever.  I have, over the years, wished that there was another option, something like; 'Closed' would do it.

Only staff can close threads, and threads that have no new posts for one year are closed automatically.

"Hanging around forever" provides searchable information for users and lurkers alike. If we removed threads as they are solved the forums would be far less useful.

---

### Post by jgw on 2018-10-19
Never mind.  I am going to lose this one and have been here before.  I will just no longer mark ones with no solutions as solved.  Thanks for the reply

---

