---
title: "8.04 access Windows Files"
date: 2008-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bigal947 on 2008-05-22
Can it be true that in 8.04 I cannot view my windows files located on the same disk?

Al

---

### Post by crossedout on 2008-05-22
Sure you can.  Its listed under Places or via FileSystem->Media.
If you don't know which is your NTFS (windows) partition, jump into Terminal and type:
```
sudo fdisk -l
```

Whichever is listed as NTFS is your Windows partition.  Then just access Places and click on it.

If you need read/write access to those files you will need to install ntfs-3g.
```
sudo apt-get install ntfs-3g
```
Good Luck

-Xout

---

### Post by chasby on 2008-05-22
I can see the files on my WinXP partitions (which are on the same physical drive) just fine in 8.04.

---

### Post by bigal947 on 2008-05-25
After fdisk indicated the local disk as /dev/sda  I found my way to /dev/sda in Places and found it was listed as a file with no application associated. Any attempt to open it would give me such a message. I would expect it to be displayed as a folder.

Al

---

### Post by draconastar on 2008-12-29
In older versions of Ubuntu I had no problem finding my Windows files, because they were on a separate partition.  But with 8.04 I was able to install directly inside of Windows, and now I can't seem to locate them.  Does NOT being on a separate partition make it so I won't be able to view or use them?

I'm wondering because I'm attempting to fix a wireless connection, and getting the needed files will be easy if I can just download them in my Windows install and grab them from Ubuntu.

---

### Post by draconastar on 2008-12-30
So, in my complete Ubuntu noobishness, I noticed that Amarok had located the music that was in my Windows installation, which Ubuntu is inside of.  So I made it tell me where it was.

Turns out that all you have to do is go to /host, which is apparently the directory of C: (or whatever drive letter your primary is).  Hope this helps anyone who had a similar problem to mine.

---

