---
title: "how to flush your DNS cache?"
date: 2007-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by freerick on 2007-05-02
Hi, I need to override the IP address that one of my domains is resolving to, so I edited /etc/hosts.conf accordingly, however, the system still resolves the old IP address. Does anyone know how I can refresh my DNS cache without restarting?
Thanks!

---

### Post by jwbaker on 2007-05-02
There is no /etc/hosts.conf and there is no DNS cache.  Try editing /etc/hosts, and restart the application in question (your browser, for example).  In rare circumstances you might edit /etc/nsswitch.conf.  To diagnose, use the "dig" program on the command line e.g. dig [www.google.com](www.google.com)

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-05-02
> **jwbaker said:**
> There is no /etc/hosts.conf and there is no DNS cache.  Try editing /etc/hosts, and restart the application in question (your browser, for example).  In rare circumstances you might edit /etc/nsswitch.conf.  To diagnose, use the "dig" program on the command line e.g. dig [www.google.com](www.google.com)

/etc/hosts.conf actually controls the way DNS lookups are performed, so it is relevant (and real.....)

The /etc/hosts file is also relevant, and it can be altered manually or via System-Administration-Network-Hosts

---

### Post by ebash on 2007-05-02
There's the file /etc/resolv.conf that list the DNS servers to use. Edit it and the changes should take effect automatically. Keep in mind that some applications could cache their own DNS results (I think that firefox is one of them).

My system is using DHCP and the file /etc/resolv.conf gets regenerated by the application dhclient whenever the application gets started (usually at every reboot). If you use a static IP address the file shouldn't be modified at every boot.

---

### Post by jwbaker on 2007-05-02
> **dcstar said:**
> /etc/hosts.conf actually controls the way DNS lookups are performed, so it is relevant (and real.....)

Hrmm?

```
jwb@pismo:~$ ls -l /etc/hosts.conf
ls: /etc/hosts.conf: No such file or directory
jwb@pismo:~$ man hosts.conf
No manual entry for hosts.conf
jwb@pismo:~$ dpkg -S hosts.conf
dpkg: *hosts.conf* not found.

```

I've been using Linux for 12 years and I've never heard of /etc/hosts.conf.

Perhaps the file you are thinking of is /etc/host.conf?

---

### Post by freerick on 2007-05-02
Hey, thanks for your replies; I realized my mistake, the file is indeed called **/etc/hosts** and *not* /etc/hosts.conf (I might have gotten that mixed up with RedHat or even Windows, both of which I'm pretty sure do use this file).
I'm also pretty sure that there is indeed a DNS cache, and Firefox does cache its own DNS, but it doesn't need to be flushed after editing /etc/hosts, which is in fact the correct file.
Thanks again for your help!

:popcorn:

---

