---
title: "9.10 TVoverscan issues."
date: 2009-12-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xinu6 on 2009-12-12
First off, I will tell you I've been searching forums after forums since Thursday about this issue I'm having, and would greatly appreciate it if I can get more info from making a thread. (last resort)

I just downloaded Ubuntu 9.10, and I have an overscan issue with a 1280x720_60 res on my 42" Sanyo TV. I have been trying to figure out how to get it to a different res, but it seems each forum has 10 different solutions special to everyone's specs. 

My xorg.conf is empty right now, I just reformatted Ubuntu for the Third time due to booting failures from trying to get the screen adjusted correctly. 

I'm running on an older Nvidia card, 7600GT and on Windows (before I switched) it had adjuster sliders for the TV. Ubuntu X Server settings do not. My TV does not have any adjustment options neither. 

After all my research, I'm guessing I need a 1360(6)x768 resolution for a 720p screen, I'm running DVI-HDMI cable. Right now I can not see the top bar and the bottom bar and the sides are cut off when windows are maximized. 

Also I do not understand when I tried to configure my xorg.conf file after this last format I've done, it says "Could not find the file /home/name/etc/X11/xorg.conf", when I try to save.

Any help or answers or even links (although most links i have clicked) would be the greatest of help, and if more information is needed, please let me know. 

Thank you all in advance!

---

### Post by Xinu6 on 2009-12-12
bump :P im still researching, still cant find anything that can help me :(

---

### Post by Xinu6 on 2009-12-13
bump

---

### Post by tcchris on 2009-12-13
two things 
1. I have tried correcting overscan on a Samsung tv , with little success .
You have to make a modeline in the xorg.conf file . This modeline sets a smaller resolution , so that it fits the screen . Problem is your tv may or may not accept this . On mine it had to be multiples of sixteen , from original size . I cant remember where but there is a guide in ubuntu forums for this . It is not a "newbe" procedure . 
2. xorg.conf is read from /etc/X11/xorg.conf . If you create one and save it somewhere else , then you will need to move it .
2a. there is no /home/username directory replace "username" with your username

Hope this helps

---

### Post by tcchris on 2009-12-13
Another suggestion , go with vga cable .
My experience is with vga , no overscan , movies look ok , desktop is a little blurrier . VGA on mine is similar to 720p .
Also I think with the next Nvidia driver 190 there may be a slider .

---

### Post by Xinu6 on 2009-12-13
> **tcchris said:**
> Another suggestion , go with vga cable .
My experience is with vga , no overscan , movies look ok , desktop is a little blurrier . VGA on mine is similar to 720p .
Also I think with the next Nvidia driver 190 there may be a slider .

ill take overscan over blurry lol. thanks for the info, and im hoping the 190 does come with a slider, cause the 185 doesnt help me :(

and ya, for some reason when i open gksu gedit etc/X11/xorg.conf it shows at top right away home/name/etc/X11/xorg.conf

so idk, i cant save it cause it says that place doesnt exist, and second i want to make mode lines, but not good enough with the code quite yet to make it for my tv specifically, i see guides and last guide i did brought me to a name@name login -$ or something DOS like mode screen and i couldnt get past it, so i had to reformat. 

but i dled simdock and using that for my bottom screen and i changed the folder icon size so the top menus show a lot more (i can see the time now, but applications, idk what the second one says, and system are cut in half. so im guessing theres a date on top of the time. i can deal with this i suppose, id rather not cause i cant see the bottom and it annoys the piss out of me not having my windows maximized. so idk, ill keep researching still.

thanks :D

---

### Post by tcchris on 2009-12-13
another less than perfect option
if you use xfce desktop instead of gnome , it lets you adjust the screensize of the desktop
I really wish gnome had that feature

---

### Post by miniyak on 2009-12-13
I've also had this issue in the past [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1089131]("http://http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1089131")

where are these so called screen size settings in xfce? im wondering how i missed them.. xfce is easy enough to just install from synaptic btw. no big deal just log out gnome session login xfce session after the install (just in case there is any confusion amongst those new to the concept)
  
Somewhere i heard that there is an overscan option within the setting of some tvs, not the ones ive used.. but i'ld double check your set in case

As far as i'm concerned hdmi sucks, VGA works better for me

---

### Post by tcchris on 2009-12-13
I don't have xfce installed right now but if I remember correctly , you right click on desktop to get to settings , and adjust it by number of pixels on side and top and bottom .

---

### Post by efflandt on 2009-12-13
I guess it depends upon the TV, video card, and crossing your fingers.

I have a 27" HDTV Ready 1280x720 LCD that I am now using as a monitor.  It accepts 720p or 1080i input and also lists PC video modes up to 1280x1024.  When connected with VGA, X defaults to some 1152x8XX 4:3 mode, but offers a 1360x768 16:9 mode (even on old PC's that I did not think did widescreen).  I was pleasantly surprised that 1360x768 works fine.

When connected with DVI to my desktop, WinXP or X automatically use its native 1280x720.

Reaction to my 40" 1366x768 LCD has been different.  When I connect laptop VGA to it, WinXP sees it as 1360x764 60 Hz which is quite sharp.  But X defaults to 1024x768 4:3 which my TV automatically stretches full screen.  If I try to use 1360x768 60Hz it ends up so overscanned that my TV will not autosync to it regardless of any adjustments.  So I need to find a modeline for that.

Summary: Laptop VGA to 27", WinXP can only do 4:3 PC modes, X works fine as 1360x768 widescreen.  Desktop with DVI works perfectly in native 1280x720 with WinXP or Linux X.

Contrary to that laptop VGA to 40", WinXP is close to native widescreen mode, X only works in PC 4:3 modes or widescreen overscanned in all directions.  Have not tried DVI from desktop yet because I just had surgery.

---

