---
title: "19.04 choppy/stuttering video (not audio)"
date: 2019-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ken_Courter on 2019-05-04
I am running Ubuntu 19.04 and video playback is unwatchable choppy. Frame rate is approximately 0.5 per second. Audio is fine. This occurs regardless of video format or player. Other threads have mentioned that this is a problem with Intel integrated graphics controllers. I have seen other threads suggesting the creation of a file in /etc/X11 called 20-intel.conf or xorg.conf containing the following:

Section "Device"
  Identifier  "Intel Graphics"
  Driver      "intel"
  Option      "TearFree"    "true"
EndSection

I have tried this with no results. This has happened with any Ubuntu based distro or version I install on this machine. Doesn't happen with Arch, but I really want to stick with Ubuntu. Any ideas would be appreciated.

 lspci shows the following output:

0:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31/P35/P31 Express DRAM Controller (rev 0a)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31/P35/P31 Express PCI Express Root Port (rev 0a)
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0a)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation 82G33/G31 Express Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 0a)
00:1b.0 Audio device: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family High Definition Audio Controller (rev 01)
00:1c.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family PCI Express Port 1 (rev 01)
00:1d.0 USB controller: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #1 (rev 01)
00:1d.1 USB controller: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #2 (rev 01)
00:1d.2 USB controller: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #3 (rev 01)
00:1d.3 USB controller: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family USB UHCI Controller #4 (rev 01)
00:1d.7 USB controller: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family USB2 EHCI Controller (rev 01)
00:1e.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 82801 PCI Bridge (rev e1)
00:1f.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82801GB/GR (ICH7 Family) LPC Interface Bridge (rev 01)
00:1f.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82801G (ICH7 Family) IDE Controller (rev 01)
00:1f.2 IDE interface: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family SATA Controller [IDE mode] (rev 01)
00:1f.3 SMBus: Intel Corporation NM10/ICH7 Family SMBus Controller (rev 01)
02:00.0 Ethernet controller: Broadcom Inc. and subsidiaries NetLink BCM5784M Gigabit Ethernet PCIe (rev 10)

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2019-05-05
Stuttering happens when the video driver, FFMPEG & Gstreamer are not installed right, such that the video rendering is done on the CPU and not on the GPU.

How to fix it?  That is the hard part...

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-05-05
Try a different player like the combination of SMPlayer and mpv.

```
sudo apt install smplayer mpv
```

Any better?

---

### Post by Ken_Courter on 2019-05-11
Ended up doing a reinstall of ubuntu (I screwed it up fixing another issue) and the problem disappeared. Maybe something didn't install correctly? If so, why didn't it work with other installs? The world may never know!

---

