---
title: "9.04 on Pentium III"
date: 2009-08-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by azlan95 on 2009-08-19
I just installed 9.04.  My system is Pentium III with 256M ram and Intel 82815 onboard video.

I tried running terminal but it did not even show up.  The PC boots but seems the video driver used is not perfect.  Any ideas?

Azlan

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-08-19
Look in System > Administration > Hardware Drivers and see if there is something to activate.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-08-19
> **wojox said:**
> Look in System > Administration > Hardware Drivers and see if there is something to activate.

Intel graphics. Nothing to enable, remember?

The video driver is the best you're going to get. While there are a lot of Linux distributions that are intended for older computers like yours, Ubuntu is not one of them.

---

### Post by stinger30au on 2009-08-20
try 8.04 alternate install instead

i have 8.04 running on a p3 750Mhz pc with 512meg ram and 12 gig hdd

its quite useable

---

### Post by plucky on 2009-08-20
Try Alt + F2 and type in **gnome-terminal**

If that doesn't work try Alt + F2 and type in **xterm** to see if the xterm window starts up.

Good Luck

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-08-20
> **azlan95 said:**
> I just installed 9.04.  My system is Pentium III **with 256M ram** and Intel 82815 onboard video.

This is going to be a problem. If you can get more RAM in there, your experience will be much improved. As 3rdalbum says, Ubuntu is not set up for low-specced computers. **lxde** (which is in the repositories) is quite nice as a low-resource desktop environment.

---

### Post by azlan95 on 2009-08-20
Thanks everyone.

It's working now just fine.  Had to go to System -> Preference -> Display ( If I'm not mistaken) and uncheck the visual thingy or something.

Azlan

---

