---
title: "I need to edit a odt file generated in OOo 3.0 under Linux on Windows XP"
date: 2009-09-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Repgahroll on 2009-09-21
**[SIZE="5"]THE FIX IS ON THE NEXT PAGE, POST #14.[/SIZE]**

HERE IS A LINK TO THE POST ISOLATED:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8045864&postcount=14](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8045864&postcount=14)

____________________________________________________________________________

Hello there.

I'm making a document and i started it on Ubuntu using OOo 3.0, I used only the Verdana font because I know Windows has it.

Now i'm on a Windows machine and don't have access to another one, I have my odt file open from a usb drive (OOo 3.1 updated), but somehow the thing isn't compatible... text boxes became distant, tabs looks very larger, and some fonts inside some text boxes has totaly different sizes than the ones that i set on Linux.

Is there a way to open this file properly under Windows XP? I really need to edit it and it has a lot of text boxes and i just don't have time to edit everything again :(.

On Ubuntu it opens properly; I'm 100% sure because i double-tested it.

Thank you very much and sorry my english.

PS:Later i'll need to open it under Linux again to edit some last details and print the file.

---

### Post by mike555 on 2009-09-21
you can try converting it to another format for editing then back to whatever you want ...    [http://www.convertfiles.com/](http://www.convertfiles.com/)

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2009-09-21
You can also install Openoffice.org 3.0 on the XP machine.

For future use, you may want to install some fonts on your Ubuntu machine if you haven't already done so.

```
sudo apt-get install msttcorefonts mplayer-fonts ttf-xfree86-nonfree xfs
```

---

### Post by Chronon on 2009-09-21
You are saying that OOo in Windows isn't capable of rendering a file generated by OOo in Linux?

---

### Post by Shujah on 2009-09-21
checkout this page > [http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/oo-converters.html](http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/oo-converters.html)

---

### Post by triplesick on 2009-09-21
old gray wolf's solution is the correct solution.  there have been some formatting changes in the .odt format since version 3.0; the easiest solution is just to download the same version of ooo on your xp computer that you had on linux.

---

### Post by Repgahroll on 2009-09-22
Thanks everyone.

In fact yesterday something like 30min after my post I began to "convert" it by hand, because my time was very short... so i didn't sleep this night :(. I had to export in PDF to print and could not make the latest edits on a Linux machine, because it's not possible to edit a odt file saved on OOo for Windows on a OOo for Linux (the same compatibility issues).

@Old_Gray_Wolf: I already have such fonts on Ubuntu,

and i tried to install a lot of different openoffice versions both on Linux and Windows; yesterday on Windows I installed maybe 4 or 5 versions (from 2.4.2 up to 3.1.1) and all versions has the same issue, the Verdana font matches perfectly when the size is correct, but on some text boxes when i have 2 or 3 different sizes, the first size is applied to all the text there. And the most annoying problem is that the text boxes that I drawed together on linux became separated by a small gap on Windows. And the "tabs" seems to be a little larger on Windows also.

Another problem i have is that next week i will need to do the same thing (begin to write a document on Linux, edit it for one day on Windows, and edit it again on Linux to correct and adjust minor details and print) and i don't know if it's possible on Openffice... I tried also the sxw file and the exact same thing happens, if you want i can post some screenshots. The major problem is that i do everything on OOo and i need to copy pieces of other documents in odt also, and other programs like Abiword don't read it well (when pasted), so i can't change the program, it has to be done in OOo. Maybe some addon can do the job... isn't there some kind of editable PDF? OOo is a very good app and i never had problems with it, but is has to be cross platform compatible, at least if the fonts are available in both platforms :(.

Thank you very much

@ mike555 & Shujah: Thank you but i'm not trying to convert a file to another program, i just need to edit the same file on different OSs.

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-09-22
Google documents may be a viable option. You can upload an open office or word document from any platform, and later download it as any of the supported formats. You can even edit the file directly in the browser (and it has built-in VCS)

[http://docs.google.com](http://docs.google.com)

---

### Post by Repgahroll on 2009-09-23
Thanks Geirha, but unfortunately I can't depend on internet connection, in fact on the windows machine i have a dialup connection that is expensive and very bad (because there's no adsl in that region)... can't connect 95% of the time. Otherwise it would be an actual solution.

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-09-23
Ok. Can you use rtf (rich text format) though? All office suites should handle that format fairly well. It doesn't have as much features as odt/doc though.

---

### Post by Repgahroll on 2009-09-23
I tried RTS but the text boxes don't work at all. The problem (I actually think it's the only problem) is the texts are inside actual text boxes, not tables. I didn't make the documents, I'm just copying some parts of some documents and making one single file. A solution (I think) would be to convert the text boxes into tables... but it has to be done automatically because I'm talking about really huge documents. Can't be done manually. Anyway such converter doesn't exist and I think it would be very hard to make one because text boxes doesn't have collumns os rows... they are just independent boxes together :(.

Thank you Geirha!

I hope someone has a solution, because I'll need it within 4 days :(.

PS: Worth registering at openoffice forums just to ask this?

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2009-09-23
> **Repgahroll said:**
> .......

PS: Worth registering at openoffice forums just to ask this?

I think so. The community there is probably more focused on OO, and you might find someone had had a similar problem and solved it before.

---

### Post by triplesick on 2009-09-28
man, that really sucks. :(

---

### Post by Repgahroll on 2009-10-03
[SIZE=4]**I found the problem! :D**[/SIZE]

The system has two different Verdana fonts, the one that comes with Ubuntu (the opensourced one) and the one that lies within msttcorefonts (which overwrites the opensourced one after the msttcorefonts installation).

For some reason, the opensouced font overwrote the mstt one, maybe I reinstalled the relative package after the msttcorefonts installation.

So the fix here is simply to reinstall the msttcorefonts package.

I don't know exactly if the behaviour that i wrote here is right (the msttcorefonts overwrite the opensourced one, i don't even know if the default font is opensourced =/), however it fixes the problem.

So the tip is to make sure that the font you are using in Linux that has one with the same name on Windows is exactly the same, in other words, is the one made by MS, the one that lies within the msttcorefonts package.

Hope it helps someone.

Thanks everyone for your help and patience.
(sorry my english)

---

### Post by triplesick on 2009-10-04
GOOD EFFIN JOB!!  good news that you fixed it :)

---

