---
title: "9.04 Netbook Remix messed up my flash drive"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Streamline35 on 2009-04-24
So I was trying to install 9.04 netbook remix on my MSI wind. I used an 8GB flash drive, and when I used win32diskimager to write the image file onto it (from vista x64), it partitioned it to about 1GB, and it now refuses to be reformatted back to 8GB. In windows disk manager I can see the extra 6.7GB of unparitioned drive, but I'm unable to delete, resize, or do anything to either of the partitions. Does anyone know what diskimager did to my drive and how I can fix it?

---

### Post by dhughes on 2009-04-24
Can you boot from the USB without installing and then use Gparted to wipe and then partition the drive?

edit: nevermind, I see you said it refuses to be partitioned back to 8GB.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-04-24
> **dhughes said:**
> Can you boot from the USB without installing and then use Gparted to wipe and then p artition the drive?

You cannot change mounted partitions, simple boot up the installed Ubuntu system and then use the Partition Manager on the USB to delete the image partition.

---

### Post by MG37221 on 2009-04-29
I plugged my thumb drive (4GB) into my son's Windows PC and simply formatted it.  Worked like a charm.

---

### Post by dragonbeast25 on 2009-04-29
Try formatting it in Disk Management.

Control Panel, Administrative Tools, Computer Management, Disk Management.

---

### Post by bailout on 2009-04-29
I have had serious problems with 2 usb drives recently after using image writing utilities. I ended up with drives that gparted could see but not format and Acronis couldn't see but windows could see,format and write to but they still wouldn't work in acronis or linux. I ended up having to delete the partitions in gparted which enabled me to set the flags in gparted to bootable. Acronis could then see them and format them. However, I seemed to have to do different things to each drive and am not confident that I could fix them again.

It seems easy to damage the formatting on these drives and difficult to fix them.

---

