---
title: "ffmpeg frei0r filter error"
date: 2011-12-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bootstrap58 on 2011-12-07
Hello. that was my first topic. sorry for bad my english

Im coding an application (for windows) for video effects change (glow, saturation  etc..) im using ffmpeg and i've downlaoded latest windows build.

when i use frei0r filter i got a message

> **no such filter frei0r.****ffmpeg -filters** command 

> ffmpeg version N-35462-g61b1d85, Copyright (c) 2000-2011 the FFmpeg developers
  built on Dec  5 2011 14:22:27 with gcc 4.6.2
  configuration: --enable-gpl --enable-version3 --disable-w32threads --enable-ru
ntime-cpudetect --enable-avisynth --enable-bzlib --enable-frei0r --enable-libope
ncore-amrnb --enable-libopencore-amrwb --enable-libfreetype --enable-libgsm --en
able-libmp3lame --enable-libopenjpeg --enable-librtmp --enable-libschroedinger -
-enable-libspeex --enable-libtheora --enable-libvo-aacenc --enable-libvo-amrwben
c --enable-libvorbis --enable-libvpx --enable-libx264 --enable-libxavs --enable-
libxvid --enable-zlibseems like frei0r is enabled but i can't find on filters

> Filters:
aconvert         Convert the input audio to sample_fmt:channel_layout:packed_fmt
.
aformat          Convert the input audio to one of the specified formats.
anull            Pass the source unchanged to the output.
aresample        Resample audio data.
ashowinfo        Show textual information for each audio frame.
earwax           Widen the stereo image.
pan              Remix channels with coefficients (panning)
volume           Change input volume.
abuffer          Buffer audio frames, and make them accessible to the filterchai
n.
aevalsrc         Generate an audio signal generated by an expression.
amovie           Read audio from a movie source.
anullsrc         Null audio source, return empty audio frames.
abuffersink      Buffer audio frames, and make them available to the end of the
filter graph.
anullsink        Do absolutely nothing with the input audio.
blackframe       Detect frames that are (almost) black.
boxblur          Blur the input.
copy             Copy the input video unchanged to the output.
crop             Crop the input video to width:height:x:y.
cropdetect       Auto-detect crop size.
delogo           Remove logo from input video.
deshake          Stabilize shaky video.
drawbox          Draw a colored box on the input video.
drawtext         Draw text on top of video frames using libfreetype library.
fade             Fade in/out input video
fieldorder       Set the field order.
fifo             Buffer input images and send them when they are requested.
format           Convert the input video to one of the specified pixel formats.
gradfun          Debands video quickly using gradients.
hflip            Horizontally flip the input video.
hqdn3d           Apply a High Quality 3D Denoiser.

im really dont know how can i rebuild ffmpeg with frei0r for windows. im newbie.

can someone do that for me. how can i fix this.

inadvance thanks.

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2011-12-07
Please show your ffmpeg command.

---

### Post by bootstrap58 on 2011-12-08
sure.

```
 ffmpeg -y -i c:\myvideo.mp4 -vf frei0r="glow:0.5" -f flv c:\mynewvideo.flv
```

or

```
 ffmpeg -y -i c:\myvideo.mp4 -vf frei0r="saturat0r:1.0" -f flv c:\mynewvideo.flv
```

etc.

inadvance thanks for your relations.

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2011-12-08
Your commands are valid. Did you get your FFmpeg from [Zeranoe FFmpeg Builds](http://ffmpeg.zeranoe.com/builds/)? You should ask Zeranoe in #ffmpeg IRC channel (but he's not always there), or the [Zeranoe Forum](http://ffmpeg.zeranoe.com/forum/) why frei0r is not working, although *--enable-frei0r* is present in the FFmpeg configure.

---

### Post by bootstrap58 on 2011-12-09
> **FakeOutdoorsman said:**
> Your commands are valid. Did you get your FFmpeg from [Zeranoe FFmpeg Builds]("http://ffmpeg.zeranoe.com/builds/")? You should ask Zeranoe in #ffmpeg IRC channel (but he's not always there), or the [Zeranoe Forum]("http://ffmpeg.zeranoe.com/forum/") why frei0r is not working, although *--enable-frei0r* is present in the FFmpeg configure.

hello.

yes i've downloaded from [http://ffmpeg.zeranoe.com/builds/](http://ffmpeg.zeranoe.com/builds/) 3 days ago. thanks for your relations.

---

