---
title: "screen resolution degrading"
date: 2009-06-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bootdoc on 2009-06-05
my screen resolution has degraded to 1024x768 for no apparent reason.  I deactivated and reactivated the nvidia driver to no avail. system>appearence>screen resolution does not show a higher resolution than 1024x768.

Help please

nothing like jumping through hoops to fix screen res!

tried using envyng to fix resolution.  didn't work.

finally did
sudo nvidia-settings
changed res to proper setting and it came back with error could not make backup xorg.conf or some such crap so did:
sudo nvidia-xconfig
I believe that wrote a new xorg.conf after which I went back to the nvidia-settings and clicked save and it worked. 

Now if I only knew what happened in the first place.  What could wipe out driver settings to the point where the best resolution is 1024x768.  at one point it went as far as 800x640:-k  with no better options WUWT!  Its very disturbing.

---

### Post by salvachn on 2009-06-05
What is your native resolution? And is it an LCD? Try uninstalling nVidia drivers and then again installing it. Installation, not activation. Same procedure has worked for many.

---

### Post by bootdoc on 2009-06-05
I used the hardware drivers module to do this.  shouldn't that work!?  I've been using ubuntu since dapper and don't recall this happening except after upgrade.  It's not that I don't want to do a manual uninstall/reinstall, I will if I have to BUT the hardware drivers app should take care of it.  As a matter of fact the screen res should not degrade at all.  Isn't there a Xorg file that can be edited.  here is my xorg.conf.  it's pretty sparce don't you think?  No mention of the monitor brand or settings.

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load	"glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver	"nvidia"
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

---

### Post by bootdoc on 2009-06-06
nothing like jumping through hoops to fix screen res!

tried using envyng to fix resolution. didn't work.

finally did
sudo nvidia-settings
changed res to proper setting and it came back with error could not make backup xorg.conf or some such crap so did:
sudo nvidia-xconfig
I believe that wrote a new xorg.conf after which I went back to the nvidia-settings and clicked save and it worked.

Now if I only knew what happened in the first place. What could wipe out driver settings to the point where the best resolution is 1024x768. at one point it went as far as 800x640 with no better options WUWT! Its very disturbing.

---

