---
title: "12.04 lts"
date: 2012-09-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dominator2012 on 2012-09-23
I am a complete Linux nerd so forgive me if I do something wrong. I use winxp(32bit) and win7(64bit)on my desktop. I downloaded the 12.04 LTS 32bit live cd and burn it to a dvd. I then booted the cdrom from the bios boot menu. It started to load and I first got a purple screen with a couple of icons at the bottom. As it continued to load the screen turned black with a blinking cursor in the upper left corner. It went now where from that point. The cdrom light went out after loading for a minute or two and any keyboard presses produced nothing. I also downloaded the 64 bit version and the same thing happened. 

Here are my system specs
M/B Gigabyte EP45-ud3r 775 series
Cpu Intel Quad Core 9950
Ram 4 gigs
Video card EVGA GTX570
On board sound
Cdrom

it kind of seems to me that maybe it can't find the drivers for the videocard but am stuck. Any help will be appreciated

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-09-23
Welcome.

If you suspect that try booting from to the LiveCD (install image), hit F6 and that should give some  options. Choose 'nomodset'. Continue and see if that makes a difference.

If no go try installing using using the 'Alternative' text based rather than graphic installer. Can bypass most graphics based install difficulties and get you to a desktop so you can install required proprietary graphics drivers.

How does it run from the CD without installing?

---

### Post by jerrrys on 2012-09-23
You appear to need the nvidia driver

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1926473](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1926473)

Im not a nvidia person, maybe BuckyBall will verify this

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-09-23
[QUOTE=jerrys]Im not a nvidia person, maybe BuckyBall will verify this[/QUOTE]

Yep, appears to be the case. 

Tryy the F6 'nomodset' option or instal the Alternative ISO rather than Desktop. When you eventually get to a desktop plug in a cable and update. The Nvidia drivers should be offered (and possibly wireless if that's not working already).

If it's working when you boot from the ISO it is using the native drivers for your card and that is what you will wind up with using the Alternative install. Then you install Nvidia drivers ...

---

### Post by Sef on 2012-09-23
> instal the Alternative ISO

The alternative ISO is easy to use; however, it can get tricky if you have not partitioned before.  If that is the case and you are not sure how to partition, then please ask for help in the forums.

---

### Post by Ralph L on 2012-09-23
One possibility.  Whenever I boot from a live cd on my Dell D610 Latitude laptop, it goes to a screen with a little man icon on the bottom.  If I hit ESC within about 5 seconds, I get the normal boot menu.  If I don't do that, it goes off and does who knows what?

Just a thought.

---

