---
title: "11.04"
date: 2011-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ken0069 on 2011-07-12
Well, I just got done loading 11.04 on a mule box and I've got to say that this is the biggest piece of "junk" I've seen to date!  I spent about 20 minutes trying to change the desktop so something that resembles a computer I'm use to using to no avail!!  I'm just glad I didn't do a blind upgrade via the internet to any of my other 3 systems before I found this out!! Trust me, this one will go in the trash and there will be NO upgrades of my other systems, EVER as long as the newer version look and act like this one has!!:confused:

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-12
Hi, there is a lot of customizing that can be done and a lot to learn about unity but you are not going to do it in twenty minutes. 

Also you can log out click on your username go to the bottom of the screen and choose ubuntu classic.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-07-13
ken:  You're not alone in your dislike of Unity as the default desktop UI.  And, Canonical has already stated that they are NOT going to support the Ubuntu Classic mode after 11.04.

And, since Gnome2 is NOT being supported anymore, there's not likely to be a Gnome alternative in 11.10.

If you're willing to live with Unity but want your menus back, suggest you check out the Ubuntu Geek website.  He has an article about adding a package that will give you your menus back.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-07-13
Try Xubuntu.

Panels, icons, taskbars.... all the stuff you are used too :D

Xubuntu has come a long way.

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2011-07-13
Hated 11.04 in Alpha and Beta and RC AND on release.

I now use it on all my machines and am growing to like it. You're right, it's different and does not work the way you were used to but do you know.....give it a go.

DON'T JUST DISMISS CHANGE.

---

### Post by Gawains Green Knight on 2011-07-13
I agree entirely. Unity is incomplete at the moment. I've installed Cairo Dock to recover a lot of the lost functionality that comes with using Unity, but I do like the look of it. With more customization coming in future Unity updates, I think it could be cool.

---

### Post by AlanR8 on 2011-07-14
and I've just uninstalled Cairo Dock as I don't need it!!

Just love the fact that it is all so customisable

---

### Post by Topsiho on 2011-07-14
Well, I am using 10.04 for a while, until at least Unity matures a bit. After that I'll give Unity (or Gnome3) another chance or may return to KDE4, which I have heard is far better now than in the beginning.

I still mourn the good old KDE3 days ....

Topsiho

---

### Post by kngunn on 2011-07-14
I've been using 11.04 since the day it came out (or was it the day AFTER... oh, well).  I really like the reasons for moving to Unity.  I knew it would take time to get used to the new way of doing things, but I do new things all the time, so that didn't bother me.

Unfortunately, I've found that I'm using my Linux desktop less and less and less.  Unity just doesn't flow for me.  My work always feels hampered by it, and although I thought that was just a hump to get over I'm still not over it!

I've been a big fan of Ubuntu since 8.04, but Unity is killing me.  I'm either going to roll back to 10.10 or move to another distro.  Both choices really sadden me, but there's no reason to stick with something that constantly drives me to use another machine because my user experience is unpleasant.  I have a coworker here in the same boat -- he's even found himself working more in *shudder* WINDOWS.  Aiiieee!

Maybe Unity just needs maturity.  Maybe it's just a design that doesn't fit well with my way of working.  I don't know.  I just know 11.04 is the first Ubuntu that's left me seriously disappointed.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-15
Hi, this is one of the things that I did to make using unity easier on me but there is a lot of things that make unity easy and quick that people do not know about I am going to include some links. 
[http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity](http://castrojo.tumblr.com/post/4795149014/the-power-users-guide-to-unity)
[http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/things-to-tweak-fix-after-installing.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/things-to-tweak-fix-after-installing.html)
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/35488/list-of-custom-launchers-quicklists-for-unity](http://askubuntu.com/questions/35488/list-of-custom-launchers-quicklists-for-unity)
[http://theravingrick.blogspot.com/2011/04/video-demonstraton-of-few-things-i-like.html](http://theravingrick.blogspot.com/2011/04/video-demonstraton-of-few-things-i-like.html)
[http://blip.tv/jorge-castro/how-i-use-the-unity-dash-5016298](http://blip.tv/jorge-castro/how-i-use-the-unity-dash-5016298)
[http://blip.tv/jorge-castro/how-i-multitask-in-unity-5015448](http://blip.tv/jorge-castro/how-i-multitask-in-unity-5015448)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-07-15
> **ken0069 said:**
> Well, I just got done loading 11.04 on a mule box and I've got to say that this is the biggest piece of "junk" I've seen to date!  I spent about 20 minutes trying to change the desktop so something that resembles a computer I'm use to using to no avail!!

You should try logging out, clicking on your username at the login screen, and then choosing "Ubuntu Classic" from the Session menu at the bottom of the screen. It's that easy.

Unity is different. Change is inevitable, especially in Linux. If you want everything to stay the same forever, then computing is not for you.

---

### Post by kngunn on 2011-07-15
> **3rdalbum said:**
> Unity is different. Change is inevitable, especially in Linux. If you want everything to stay the same forever, then computing is not for you.

That's a straw man argument:  no one is criticizing change nor wanting a lack of change.  However, many people are finding Unity to be a poorly-developed interface.  Yes, it has its fans, so it does work for some people.  I think your comment is dismissive of the actual criticisms and rude to the person to whom you responded.

Remember when Apple decided a round mouse was a good design idea with the early iMacs?  That was change -- and clearly enough people thought it was a GOOD change for it to get manufactured. Unfortunately, it also meant that you could no longer tell which way the mouse was facing just by feel.  From a human interface point of view it was dreadful.  Apple didn't repeat that mistake.

That's how I feel about Unity.  Yes, it works for some people.  However, I find it unpleasant to use and a hinderance to my workflow.  I understand that some people feel differently.

For others perhaps Unity could be superior, but the gains have to justify learning a new workflow.  Are the gains big enough?  I've continued to be non-plussed after using it for several months now, so I've put in some time with it.  While an architectural step forward, it's a step back in usability.

Do you use a Dvorak or Qwerty layout on your keyboard?  If Qwerty, why haven't you moved to Dvorak?  It's supposed to be more efficient.  Maybe it is, but I'm a good typist on Qwerty, so is relearning to type worth it for a slight gain in efficiency?  If you don't move to Dvorak, should you give up on computing because, in your words, "you want everything to stay the same forever".

I'm glad you find Unity to be an improvement.  Many people don't.  Maybe that's OK and Ubuntu will get over this hump and continue to flourish.  That would be great.  I'm a long-time fan and the community is generally great.  However, criticizing people who think the new interface is not a step forward is not productive.

Personally, I think Unity simply isn't the right answer even though it is a response to asking the right questions.  I'm glad Ubuntu is addressing those underlying issues, but Unity?  No thanks.

---

