---
title: "ubu12.04 add launcher to desktop"
date: 2012-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ndhertubu on 2012-07-17
In Ubuntu 11.04/GNOME2 one could create on the desktop a launcher-cion (''shortcut') of an item under the Applications tree, e.g. Applications / Accessoires / Calculator by right-clicking Calculator and choosing Ádd this launcher to desktop' from a popped-up menu.
 
the right-click no longer works in Ubuntu12.04/GNOME3, it just starts the app, no menu.
 
How can this facility be restored or how to easily create a desktop launcher
from an item of the Applications tree ?

---

### Post by ssojjoss on 2012-07-17
I just drag and drop an application into the launcher bar.

---

### Post by ndhertubu on 2012-07-17
I addes AcrobatReader 9 that showd up in Applications / Office
when dragging to a panel: OK, put a nice Acrobat icon
 
but when dragging to desktop, it creates an uggly  icon labelded 'acroba't.desktop' and when clicking shows a pop up windows that says  that it has not been marked 'trusted' and I can only do Cancel
 
How to solve this?

---

### Post by ssojjoss on 2012-07-17
I am not completely sure what's happening on the desktop however if you right click the icon on the desktop and select properties then left click on the image, that will allow you to change what the icon looks like if it is the looks that you are worried about.

---

### Post by ndhertubu on 2012-07-17
It's not in the first place the looks, but the fact that it creates only a link file 
lrwsrwsrwx acroread.desktop -> /opt/Adobe/Reader9/Resource/Support/AdobeReader.desktop
and a 'file'icon on the Desktop. Clicking it returns a pop-up window telling me it is not markes 'trusted' and doesn't start Acrobat Reader
 
In Ubuntu11.04 it created a 396 bytes file owned by the user, which showed up with the appropriate AdobeReader icon.
 
Here it only make sa 55 byte link file ...  
 
I need to do 
$ cp /opt/Adobe/Reader9/Resource/Support/AdobeReader.desktop ~/Desktop 
(a file of 371 bytes)
$ chmod +x AdobeReader.desktop 
 
to have the icon change to an AdobeReader-icon 
(its label then also changes into AdobeReader (without .desktop) 
Then clicking it start Adobe Reader
 
But all this is cumbersome ...
 
On the orhter hand, for a program that is standard in the Applications (such as Calculator), dragging the Calculator to the desktop does create a regular gcalctool.desktop file of some 480 bytes and with an icon representing a calculator and the label Calculator'
 
There seems to be a difference in dealing with something that was added to the Applications menu by an own install (via Ubuntu Software Center) and something that was already in the Applications menu at installation of Ubuntu12.04 ...
 
or am I missing here something?

---

