---
title: "[SOLVED] Remove Windows from dual boot"
date: 2008-01-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2008-01-31
OK. I'm planning to remove Windows from my dual-boot... finally managed to find replacements for those *Windows only* programs!

Here's my query; Windows is on hda, Ubuntu is on hdb, I'm on two separate hard drives. I've got GRUB on the MBR of hda. If I format my hda to ext3 to simply wipe off Windows, will GRUB remain intact? I don't really want to wipe out my GRUB menu and brick my machine. It's working too nice at the moment and I just want to recover the 100+Gb of disk Windows is occupying.

I know I'll have to alter my menu.lst to drop the Windows entry and I presume I'll need to change the Windows line of /etc/fstab to show the change from NTFS to ext3. Any pointers on that would be greatly appreciated.

Here's my current fstab:
> 
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=59d42914-418d-499f-9f9c-1d280ef4726a / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=18a0d127-bd97-4d4a-b77e-ce6b5aff4e3a none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0
none /proc/bus/usb usbfs devgid=46,devmode=664 0 0


---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2008-01-31
see this: [http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#reinstallgrub](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#reinstallgrub) to re-install grub. 
if you wipe the drive, grub will be erased.

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2008-01-31
I did guess that it might wipe out GRUB, but I was hoping of some way of preserving it. I think that the Super Grub Disk might be of help here, but I've never used it before... doesn't look too tricky from what I've seen of the screenshots.

---

### Post by adrian15 on 2008-02-01
> **sleepingdragon said:**
> Here's my query; Windows is on hda, Ubuntu is on hdb, I'm on two separate hard drives. I've got GRUB on the MBR of hda. If I format my hda to ext3 to simply wipe off Windows, will GRUB remain intact?

If you format the Windows partition and you do not modify the MBR then grub will boot as always.

Then you need change partition id of windows partition with cfdisk and the format it to ext3 with: mkfs.ext3. Once you have done it you will have to create a folder where to mount your data (I will use /home,... previous copy of your home files to there (Check cp -a command)) .

Then edit fstab to add a line that maps your first hard disk with your home folder.

adrian15

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2008-02-01
Thanks for replying! I decided to bite the bullet and go for it. GParted formatted my hda for me and the MBR remained intact. Did a quick change in fstab to change the line:

/dev/hda1 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.utf8 0 0

to 

/dev/hda1 /media/hda1 ext3 defaults 0 0

and set my r/w permissions accordingly. I just added a sym link within my home directory and I've got full access. hda was never intended as a new location for /home/~, but rather as an archive drive for my music, videos and backups for hdb. I now have 160Gb of free space goodness!

---

