---
title: "22.04 Power, Wallpaper, Screensaver settings for all users?"
date: 2022-09-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by newdamage1 on 2022-09-07
I'm sure I'm just not using the proper search terms to find this info, but after banging my head for an hour digging in the OS and googling figured it was time to ask...

I'm setting up VDI's for our users that want the option, but I need to do some housekeeping like branding and similar options mentioned subject. Where would I find these settings?
In rhel I used dconf, and on xubntu some XML files in /etc/xfce4, a pointer in the right direction would be appreciated!


-noveau

---

### Post by ne29914 on 2022-09-08
The "hormal" (as opposed to your main account) settings are found in each user's $HOME/.config or $HOME/.local/share directories.

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2022-09-09
[QUOTE=newdamage1;14111402]In rhel I used dconf, and on xubntu some XML files in /etc/xfce4,/QUOTE]
dconf  editor you mean? If this is what you mean, you can still install dconf  editor here in Ubuntu. To install it just run the command below in your  terminal. To run terminal in you desktop just press ctrl + alt + t in  you Ubuntu desktop or you can just find it in your Linux Ubuntu  installed applications. Regards and cheers.
```
sudo apt install dconf-editor
```

---

### Post by newdamage1 on 2022-09-15
I just wanted to come back and update what I found, just in case this came up in a search. In this particular case, the locations of the files I was looking for are in /etc/dconf/(and subdirs). There is a decent guide to how the profiles work here: [https://help.gnome.org/admin/system-admin-guide/stable/dconf.html.en](https://help.gnome.org/admin/system-admin-guide/stable/dconf.html.en)

As ne29914 said above, after your first login, your settings are in your ~/.config/dconf/user file. In my case, I'm not forcing settings, just laying out a template. Deleting the user file and logging out and in will show the changes. Additionally, the dconf-editor mlk3_08 mentioned is a great way to find settings (and see what ones are deprecated).

---

