---
title: "Ubuntu 7.10 logging me out randomly"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by d4ng3r on 2008-05-01
So I have been running Ubuntu 7.1 for a little under a  month now, and everything was good until about maybe a week ago it would log me out randomly.  I'm new to Linux, and probably don't know the correct terminology for what is happening, so I will describe it.  It seems to happen when I minimize a window, or click the show desktop button (in bottom left) and the screen just goes black, it lists a few things its checked or done, all of which return "OK"'s, and then I am back at the login screen.  If I log in again, everything seems to work fine, as if nothing has happened.  I wouldn't even know where to begin to look to solve this problem, so any help would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-05-01
Sounds like Xorg crashing. What video driver do you use? There will probably be a backtrace in /var/log/Xorg.0.log.old after the crash (it will be at the end of the file). Might give a clue as to what is happening.

Do you have desktop effects enabled?

---

### Post by d4ng3r on 2008-05-01
I don't really know how to find my video driver, but this is an excerpt from my /ect/x11/xorg.conf that I think tells you:

> Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

As for Visual Effects I have it set to 'normal', which is what came as the default and haven't changed it.

I looked through /var/log/xorg.0.log.old as you suggested and the last few lines look as so:
> Backtrace:
0: /usr/bin/X(xf86SigHandler+0x81) [0x80c95d1]
1: [0xffffe420]
2: /usr/bin/X [0x817e389]
3: /usr/bin/X [0x817ad15]
4: /usr/bin/X(CompositePicture+0x153) [0x8161223]
5: /usr/bin/X [0x81674ff]
6: /usr/bin/X [0x8164425]
7: /usr/bin/X [0x815765e]
8: /usr/bin/X(Dispatch+0x1aa) [0x808f47a]
9: /usr/bin/X(main+0x495) [0x8076f05]
10: /lib/tls/i686/cmov/libc.so.6(__libc_start_main+0xe0) [0xb7db4050]
11: /usr/bin/X(FontFileCompleteXLFD+0x1e1) [0x8076241]

Fatal server error:
Caught signal 11.  Server aborting

(II) AIGLX: Suspending AIGLX clients for VT switch
(II) intel(0): xf86UnbindGARTMemory: unbind key 0
(II) intel(0): xf86UnbindGARTMemory: unbind key 1
(II) intel(0): xf86UnbindGARTMemory: unbind key 2
(II) intel(0): xf86UnbindGARTMemory: unbind key 3
(II) intel(0): xf86UnbindGARTMemory: unbind key 4 

I don't know what a signal 11 is, but if I were to guess, that is probably when it last crashed.  Thanks again for your assistance.

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-05-01
Signal 11 is SIGSEGV (segmentation fault).

Could you try disabling desktop effects (set to None) for a bit and see if the crash goes away. Also, could you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf please?

---

### Post by d4ng3r on 2008-05-01
Okay disabled desktop effects, lets see if that does anything.  For some reason the attachment manager doesnt seem to be working so I will just have to copy the contents of /ect/x11/xorg.conf here:

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Driver		"intel"
	BusID		"PCI:0:2:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Mobile 945GM/GMS, 943/940GML Express Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x800" "544x544"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

---

### Post by d4ng3r on 2008-05-05
Well, the desktop hasn't crashed all weekend, thanks to disabling desktop effects...although it would be nice if I could get them back somehow...

---

### Post by chrisccoulson on 2008-05-05
I don't have an Intel chipset, so i'm not sure what else to suggest other than reporting a bug on Launchpad.

---

### Post by hardysmiles on 2008-09-28
Hey--

I've just recently been having this same problem... through my forum searches people were also having this issue in gutsy... i never had this happen in gutsy, and its only recently in hardy that its happened to me. i do periodically install updates, so it may be as a result from that... my computer is on 24/7 and it only happens maybe once or twice a week, and its hard to determine what the trigger is...

i was just wondering if the problem was reported with launchpad and if there was any other solution other than compiz? (i use the zoom tool with compiz on a daily basis and don't want to give it up...)

---

