---
title: "[12.10 64bit] applications slow down and freeze"
date: 2013-02-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mafaldinha on 2013-02-13
Hi, 
I have this weird problem - recently the system started to freeze unexpectedly. The apps I'm running start to respond slowly and then stop responding at all, it's impossible to do anything, even open the system menu to restart or open sys manager. It started to happen recently, but I can't figure out what might have caused it - some update probably. But I don't know where to start with diagnosing this. 

just in case my graphic card: Quadro NVS 160M/PCIe/SSE2 

any ideas? I can't work like this and I want to try some solution before reinstalling the whole thing. 

thanks!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2013-02-13
watch your logs  :P
- .xsession-errors
-/var/log/xorg.0.log
-/var/log/dmesg

- /var/crash/

is your installation been tweated ? using ppa(s) ?

maybe you have forgotten to clean it:

sudo apt-get clean
sudo apt-get autoclean
sudo apt-get autoremove

sudo gtkorphan

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -f

sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh -a
(be patient, can take a while, dont stop it)

---

### Post by mafaldinha on 2013-02-13
thanks :)
I did some cleaning up, I've done some of that before, but not all. What is gtkorphan? It says 'command not found'. I'll see if the problem still occurs. Then I'll look into logs - at the moment they seem a little bit confusing, I don't know what to look for :)

---

### Post by arj154 on 2013-12-18
Hi

I've been having a very simular issue to you and i also have a UEFI laptop with ubuntu 13.10 64 bit, did you find a solution?

---

