---
title: "11.04 gksudo gedit permission errors (beyond my skill lvl / totally confused)"
date: 2012-03-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linuxrover on 2012-03-03
OK, I'm trying to set up a printer on 11.04 in a virtual machine (VMware Player 4.0) on a Win7 box.
 

 I've been trouble shooting this for a while and have run in to a road block I can't solve.  A lot of the troubleshooting stuff I've found does not apply directly to my system, but I've been able to adapt it.
 

 There were some issues on the win side of the box: I figured those out.  
 

 Now, if I understand things correctly I have to install the printer driver in Ubuntu, then I'll have to do some stuff with the player itself.
 

 The printer is a Dell rebranded Lexmark v515w. Dell has an Ubuntu driver for this printer for 8.04, 8.10 and 9.04. I figured I'd try it as I haven't been able to find a generic / open source driver for it.
 (And please don't say buy another printer, I already have one.)
 

 But here's the road block: There is a known typo in the driver installer. (The guy who found it and created the fix has told Lexmark about the typo, but a year has gone by and they have not fixed it.)   
 

 Now the guys fix is not 100% down the line with my system. For instance, he uses the command  
 

 cd tmp
 

 That did not work for me but
 

 cd /tmp  
 

 does work. So, I've adapted it to work on my system and have hit a road block that I cannot figure out for the life of me.
 

 So, here's the fix for the typo in the install:
 

 I have the extracted file (dell-inkjet-09-driver-1.0-1.i386.deb.sh) to my home folder.
 

 I open a terminal and run
 

 ./dell-inkjet-09-driver-1.0-1.i386.deb.sh –noexec –keep
 

 (No sudo, I have tried sudo here too, but it didn't make any difference.)
 

 I get a pop up box with the following error:
 

 [Lua]("http://www.lua.org/") error detected: While parsing install.lua: config/run.lua:1374: attempt to index global ‘ownhership’ (a nil value)
 

 I close the error message box with OK.
 

 (Note: This is the same error that I get when I try to run the installer. It is supposedly caused by a typo in the installer = the “h” in ownership above.)
 

 My terminal now says:
 

 

 Verifying archive integrity... All good.  
 Uncompressing nixstaller......................................................................................... 
 Collecting info for this system...  
 Operating system: linux  
 CPU Arch: x86  
 TRACKING IDENT = 140509  
 XXX@XXX-virtual-machine:~$  
 

 then I
 

 cd /tmp
 

 then I
 

 XXX@XXX-virtual-machine:/tmp$ gksudo gedit
 

 Then I input my sudo password which spawns an empty note tab in /tmp. I then graphically navigate to:
 

 A file which is not there today? I worked on this until late last and then went to bed. Last night I tried this several times and there was always a a temp folder that started “lau.(random junk)”. Today it's not there? But, there are a bunch of them in root that were created yesterday while I was working on this?  
 

 So I used  
 

 gksudo nautilus
 

 to open root and delete those and started over again.
 

 And the lau.blahblah temp file is still not there?
 

 And now I'm even more confused?
 

 Last night I would navigate graphically to a config folder inside /tmp with the file “run.lau” in it. Then I would edit the h out of ownership and save the file. At which point the terminal would throw (I think) the exact same error 3 times at once (even though I only hit save once). I don't remember what the error was now. It was very long, about 3 or 4 lines and I didn't understand some of of it.  
 

 I guess I shouldn't have shutdown the machine for the night? I don't know what happened? But the files are no longer being extracted in to /temp when I run
 

 ./dell-inkjet-09-driver-1.0-1.i386.deb.sh –noexec –keep
 

 And now I'm totally lost.
 

 Below is the original fix I copied off the web. (Note: Different driver, same issue.)
 

 


 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 First, you need to extract the files for the installer. To do this, you need to run[INDENT]./lexmark-inkjet-legacy-wJRE-1.0-1.amd64.deb.sh –noexec –keep[/INDENT]It’s worth noting that there are two hyphens before noexec and keep. Once you run that command, the files for the installer will be extracted to the tmp folder in the [current working directory]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Working_directory"). For now, just type **cd tmp** and press enter. Now, open up a text editor, such as gedit and navigate to the config folder in the tmp folder we just extracted. Open up the file “run.lua”. The problem is that Lexmark misspelled ownership as ownhership, which broke the installer. Around line 1484, you will find a line that says[INDENT]if tonumber(ownhership[1]) == 0 then[/INDENT]delete the errant h in the word ownership and save the file. Now, go back to your terminal and run **sudo sh startupinstaller.sh** in the tmp folder. The installer will work as expected now.
 


 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 

 Last night after I got the three errors in terminal I verified that the text in “run.lau” had been corrected, even though the general gist of the error was that I did not have permission to save changes in that file.
 

 Then I tried to run the installer and got the same error that is noted above as being generated by the typo. But, I can't even get that far today.
 

 I'm going to go beat my head against the wall now.
 

 Note: While troubleshooting some unrelated issues I decided to switch to virtual box. I have that ironed out, all except for the printer issue. I'm not sure how the switch will effect that. Also, I've run a test of a 12.04 alpha release from live CD. It is the first one that will support all of my hardware. I'm working on switching. I haven't installed yet since it's not the stable release. My next step will be to dual boot. But, I figure that still won't solve this problem because running straight on the hardware will not correct a typo in the installer.
 

 Any help would be greatly appreciated.
 

 Thanks.

---

