---
title: "X.Org Problem OR bug in Jaunty?"
date: 2009-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by b@sh_n3rd on 2009-05-06
Hi I've been using Jaunty for some time ever since beta. I had a problem after the final release so I did a clean install of the final release later on, which means I've got a new system here for about 2/3 weeks. Anyway, my problem is that when I boot my PC and GDM loads, Jaunty seems to "forget" the display settings and my resolution changes to 800x600. It returns to normal when I reboot. It's just annoying. I didn't worry about it before coz I noticed the same issue on Intrepid which started after I had a black-out and my PC went off without shutting down. Jaunty seemed to show this flu about 2 or 3 days after the clean install. Is this a prob with my installation, PC or is it just a bug in Jaunty? If it IS then it'd be the first time I noticed a bug in it and my PC is old but quite healthy, never gives trouble so I'm bypassing hardware issues.

---

### Post by anti_microsoft on 2009-05-06
It just may be the way the driver for your video loads. If it loads correctly when the desktop starts up I would not worry.

---

### Post by kinnerc on 2009-05-06
I'll reply to this [b@sh_n3rd]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=798732"), but unfortunately I don't have an answer, but only perhaps a confirmation.

Over the last two days I have tried to install Ubuntu 9.04 on a PIII, 0.5GB RAM machine that previously was successfully running Fedora 10. The installation seemed to go fine, but the xserver from gdm will not display correctly. It tries to find a good resolution or mode for the monitor and then after a bit just gives up.

I edited the BEJEEBUS out of xorg.conf. I have transcribed it below as it existed at this point. Not all of this was in place at one time. I simply commented out various things as I tried other things. NOTHING I did changed the monitor behavior at all.

The odd thing is that if I invoke "startx" from the command line console, THAT will work and gives me an 800x600 screen. I really don't understand why gdm won't work, but startx does.

By the way, the odd "mode names" in the xorg.conf transcription below came about when the log didn't seem to recognize modes named "1024x768" etc.

I was able to figure out my driver (mga), and the maximum resolution of the monitor (1280x1040). Didn't help.

I took the splash screen out of the boot loader. Nothing.

I took "quiet" out of the boot sequence so I could see things. Nada.

I reinstalled both gdm and xserver-xorg. Zip.  :-(

I'm going to install 8.04 now to see if that works. If so, note the xorg.conf and see if it will correctly upgrade.

If THAT doesn't work, I'll install Fedora 10 again and look at that xorg.conf

This is the first time a distribution has failed me on a desktop machine in a long time. I'm used to them failing on laptops, but not desktops. :-(

=====================================

Section "Device"
    Identifier        "Configured Video Device"
#    Driver        "mga"
    Driver        "vesa"
#    Option        "UseFBDev"        "True"
#    Option        "NoDDC"        "True"
#    Option        "IgnoreEDID"    "True"
EndSection

Section    "Monitor"
    Identifier        "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier        "Primary Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
#    Subsection    "Display
#        Depth 8
#        Modes    "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
#    EndSubSection
    Subsection "Display"
        Depth    16
        Modes    "119" "117" "114"
    EndSubsection
    Subsection "Display"
#        Depth 24
        Depth 32
#        Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        Modes "118" "115"
    EndSubsection
EndSection

---

### Post by b@sh_n3rd on 2009-05-06
My vid. card is an ATI 3D Rage Pro. As I recall saying before, my issue come's right after rebooting. Once I had to reboot thrice which got me really annoyed :D. Anyway, I didn't even "sniff" this prob on Hardy.

---

### Post by colau on 2009-05-06
> **b@sh_n3rd said:**
> My vid. card is an ATI 3D Rage Pro. As I recall saying before, my issue come's right after rebooting. Once I had to reboot thrice which got me really annoyed :D. Anyway, I didn't even "sniff" this prob on Hardy.
Can you please from terminal
[html]
lspci
[/html]

---

### Post by b@sh_n3rd on 2009-05-07
Hi, I ran lspci and the output is as follows:

00:00.0 Host bridge: Intel Corporation 440LX/EX - 82443LX/EX Host bridge (rev 03)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: Intel Corporation 440LX/EX - 82443LX/EX AGP bridge (rev 03)
00:07.0 ISA bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ISA (rev 01)
00:07.1 IDE interface: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 IDE (rev 01)
00:07.2 USB Controller: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 USB (rev 01)
00:07.3 Bridge: Intel Corporation 82371AB/EB/MB PIIX4 ACPI (rev 01)
00:0d.0 USB Controller: ALi Corporation USB 1.1 Controller (rev 03)
00:0d.1 USB Controller: ALi Corporation USB 1.1 Controller (rev 03)
00:0d.2 USB Controller: ALi Corporation USB 1.1 Controller (rev 03)
00:0d.3 USB Controller: ALi Corporation USB 2.0 Controller (rev 01)
00:0e.0 Ethernet controller: VIA Technologies, Inc. VT6105/VT6106S [Rhine-III] (rev 8b)
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc 3D Rage Pro AGP 1X (rev 5c)

---

### Post by b@sh_n3rd on 2009-05-10
I assume this is a bug in Jaunty. Coz, I've tried 3 PC's currently with Jaunty and all three show the same symptoms. First boot high res. Not always, but at unanticipated moments...Note that I've not noticed any other bugs on Jaunty other than this and a problem with the boot up splash screen, which is why I assume this is a bug (due to other users' complaints about various bugs I have not noted).

---

