---
title: ". desktop auto start issue"
date: 2015-01-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by matthew69 on 2015-01-19
I created a .desktop file in .config/.autostart when I login manually it runs. If I enable automatic login it fails to run. Any suggestions to get it running under automatic login?

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2015-01-19
what are you using that you had to create it manually, instead of with the startup manager ?
is it executable?
.config/.autostart  <- i hope thats just a typo ~/.config/autostart is what you meant
perhaps post the content of the *.desktop file ?

---

### Post by matthew69 on 2015-01-19
Ok I am building an arcade machine. I want cabrio-fe to launch on login. I have tried using the startup applications to no avail. Cabrio fails to start. I tried adding a call ( /usr/bin/cabrio ) in rc.local. Neither where successfully. Finally I wrote simple bash script then manually created a desktop file and placed it in ~home/(my username)/.config/autostart . The cabrio desktop file is as follows:[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Name=cabrio
Exec=/home/gamer/cabrio.sh
StartupNotify=false
Terminal=false
Cabrio.sh contains just the call /usr/bin/cabrio.
This set up works as long as I log in manually. However if I enable auto login it does not run. Any ideas on what charge to get it to run with auto login?

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2015-01-19
yeah, startup should be able to handle that fine. so is it executable?
terminal command:
chmod +x /home/gamer/cabrio.sh
or
just right click file-> properties-> permissions, check -> allow executing file as a program

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-01-19
That .desktop should have the 1st. listed line below & maybe also add the 2nd, a delay of couple of seconds could be useful
```
X-GNOME-Autostart-enabled=true
X-GNOME-Autostart-Delay=3
```

---

### Post by matthew69 on 2015-01-19
I double checked but I did have execute permissions for user group and others. It appears the 2 line Mc4man suggested did the trick. I can now turn on the arcade and watch It boot straight to cabrio. Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2015-01-19
Please mark your thread as 'Solved' under the Thread Tools menu at the top of the page. Thanks!

---

