---
title: "10.04 server crash, boot fail, now warnings &quot;grub-probe: sending ioctl 1261 to a part"
date: 2013-04-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oregonbob on 2013-04-09
I have a Ubuntu 10.04 Lucid server that has been running just great for around 2 years. A few nights ago it crashed during a rsync backup of a database to another server. After the crash it would not reboot, just hang at initramfs prompt. I fixed this by booting a live CD and ran fsck on the root file system of the HD. After the fsck (which did a lot of corrections) it now boots normally. I also downloaded Seagate's super-duper disk repair tool and did a 5-hour scan/fix-all on the SATA hard disk. It passed that and numerous other disk tests.

Now the system is booting fine and appears to be running fine except I now see a bunch of these warnings in /var/log/messages:

**grub-probe: sending ioctl 1261 to a partition!**

I have Googled for a solution but its one of those that others have had but no one seems to have a clear indication or fix.

I would like to build a new kernel just for assurance. Is there an easy how-to to simply build a new generic kernel? I could swear I've done it before but I'm getting old.

---

### Post by oregonbob on 2013-04-09
Update: I found an easy way to upgrade the kernel to latest, with command:
apt-get install linux-image-2.6.38-12-generic

That upgraded my kernel from 32-46 to 38-12 and appears to have stopped the grub-probe errors mentioned above. It seems to boot faster too.

---

### Post by kuifje09 on 2013-04-09
Glad you could repair the system.  But it must have been a hard crash.   What filesystem do you use ?
I have had crashes also , but never so severe.

---

### Post by oregonbob on 2013-04-09
It is an ext4 filesystem on a dual-boot Windows, although Windows is never used.

---

### Post by kuifje09 on 2013-04-10
I did a quck scan on the net, and it seems to be a bug in the kernel 3.2.*  ( not sure which ) but it would not be harmfull.
My idea , it is also related to ext4, the messages seems only to arise in that combination.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2013-04-10
A kernel of version 3.2.* would indicate Buntu 12.04. You are probably reading the wrong bug report.

---

### Post by kuifje09 on 2013-04-10
If this is realy another error then that one of grub-probe, then I would suggest a fsck from the disks.
I would go for   :  sudo  touch /forcefsck

Then a reboot ofcource.

---

