---
title: "Dual monitor problem"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by johnnyxxxcakes on 2008-11-14
I always have my 22" widescreen plugged into my laptop, but I've been experiencing a problem which has really started to bug me a bit more everytime I turn on my laptop.

The monitor reads what the computer outputs through it's female monitor plug on the side, so it goes past the BIOS loading screen (Acer; Loading, please wait...") and it goes to "Loading. Starting up, please wait..." and then the screen switches to Ubuntu loading up. After this, the screen usually flickers about two times, and then greets me with the welcoming screen. Well if I have the monitor attached, 75% of the time, the monitor is blank, but the display is on the laptop when I open up the lid. The resulotion on the laptop is at the set resolution I use on the monitor (1680x1050) but it doesn't fit fully on the screen.

I usually have to restart and try again, only hoping it works the next time. It's happened after 4 restarts today, and I'm really starting to get annoyed with this issue.

For any information you need, I'm running 8.04 (Hardy) on an Acer Extensa 4620.

---

### Post by johnnyxxxcakes on 2008-11-15
Anybody have a fix to this?

---

### Post by geogur on 2008-11-15
no fix but i to am having dual head display problems all i get is a cloned screen i want 2 deads , 21" / 17" but all i get is a clone!

---

### Post by blackened on 2008-11-15
> **johnnyxxxcakes said:**
> Anybody have a fix to this?

Yes and no. Mind posting the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

If you can tolerate gdm defaulting to a lower resolution on your 22" at login, then we can fix it via xorg.conf.

---

### Post by johnnyxxxcakes on 2008-11-16
> **blackened said:**
> Yes and no. Mind posting the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf?

If you can tolerate gdm defaulting to a lower resolution on your 22" at login, then we can fix it via xorg.conf.

I don't know if you wanted this or what:
> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection


---

