---
title: "[16.04] Unexpected reboots"
date: 2016-08-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iviarc on 2016-08-27
I just recently upgraded my machine to 16.04 (fresh install from 15.10) and I am experiencing unexpected reboots and I just cannot pinpoint what's causing it. 

Here are my [system specs]("http://pastebin.com/7DJLzyuF").

All of my temperatures are all within normal ranges.

I thought it was my NTFS hard drives failing, but I performed a low-level format to ext4 but I am still experiencing unexpected reboots. SMART also says the disks are OK.

Set [FONT=lucida console]Unattended-Upgrade::Automatic-Reboot "false";[/FONT] in */etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades*.

I am getting a crash reported by [FONT=lucida console]last | head -n 50[/FONT] but don't really know what to do from here.

*/proc/sys/kernel/panic* is also [FONT=lucida console]0[/FONT].

Here are some logs after the unexpected reboot on August 27 at 07:47:
[/var/log/syslog]("http://pastebin.com/Q1BYi9kU")
[/var/log/kern.log]("http://pastebin.com/1JVVQ4vS")
[/var/log/apt/history.log]("http://pastebin.com/cVRjRCB8")
[last]("http://pastebin.com/4sHv5euG")

If you think other logs/information would be helpful, please let me know.

Any help will be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by iviarc on 2016-08-29
I ran 2 memtest passes and everything was OK.
I disconnected my 2 HDD so that only my SSD is connected.
I also switched from my dedicated ATI Radeon HD 5000 graphics card to the integrated Intel one.

I am still experiencing random reboots. Any ideas?

---

### Post by mook765 on 2016-08-29
Your kernel versions seems to be 4.4.0-24-generic.
Recent version is 4.4.0-34-generic.
Upgrading the kernel to recent version may solve the problem.
Run in terminal
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt full-upgrade
```
Your kernel should be updated to recent version now.
After reboot you can check your kernel version with```
uname -a
```

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-08-29
It's important to understand that Ubuntu does not magically reboot itself under normal conditions.
By default, Ubuntu will merely notify you that a human needs to reboot the system. This only happens as part of a kernel upgrade.
Lesser causes like a crash or memfault are likely to freeze or crash your system, but not reboot it.
 
There are several ways for a program to trigger a reboot...all leave plenty of information in the logs. None are in your logs.
Looks to me like you have a hardware problem.

---

### Post by mook765 on 2016-08-29
What ian-weisser says really make sense.
I have unexpected reboots after a power failure. I live in an area where this happens often, specially when we have some kind of heavy weather.
I will know because if it happens i will sit in the dark as well.
I can change some Bios-settings to define the computers behavior after a power failure.
You may check if your Bios allows such setting and if available adjust the settings to do nothing after power failure.
If your machine then just switch off itself instead of rebooting, i would check the computers power-supply and the power-cable.
Could be just a bad cable or bad plug...

---

### Post by iviarc on 2016-08-31
> **ian-weisser said:**
> Looks to me like you have a hardware problem.

I think you are right. I also attempted to install Windows 10 from USB and during the initial boot (i.e. before the SSD is even accessed), my computer rebooted ... so it's probably not my SSD, but the CPU or motherboard.

If it was a software issue, there would definitely be something in the logs, but I'm new to Ubuntu, so I just wanted to make absolutely sure that I wasn't missing any logs before spending money on a new PC.

Thanks for everyone's help!

---

