---
title: "14.04 boots slower than 12.04"
date: 2015-07-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by claracc on 2015-07-15
Hello, I recently have upgraded my ubuntu 12.04 fallback to 14.04 fallback (metacity) in my hp compaq 6720s laptop with 2GB RAM and 00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (primary) (rev 0c).

I have noted that the booting time is bigger than when I had ubuntu precise. It takes 1 minute since I select kernel in grub screen till the login display is shown, then after introducing user and pass in the ubuntu fallback (metacity) option, it takes 1 minute and about 15 seconds more.

I have seen the messages in dmesg, and I observe the following gaps in boot time:

[HTML][    0.313951] pci 0000:00:02.0: Video device with shadowed ROM
[    0.316658] PCI: CLS 64 bytes, default 64
[    0.316723] Trying to unpack rootfs image as initramfs...
[    1.062220] Freeing initrd memory: 25796K (f4d8e000 - f66bf000)
[    1.062516] microcode: CPU0 sig=0x6fd, pf=0x80, revision=0xa1
[    1.062526] microcode: CPU1 sig=0x6fd, pf=0x80, revision=0xa1
[    1.062626] microcode: Microcode Update Driver: v2.00 <tigran@aivazian.fsnet.co.uk>, Peter Oruba[/HTML]

also:

[HTML][    1.227210] input: AT Translated Set 2 keyboard as /devices/platform/i8042/serio0/input/input3
[    1.332389] ata1.00: ATAPI: Optiarc DVD RW AD-7561A, GH09, max MWDMA2
[    1.348266] ata1.00: configured for MWDMA2
[    1.513945] isapnp: No Plug & Play device found
[    1.515186] scsi 0:0:0:0: CD-ROM            Optiarc  DVD RW AD-7561A  GH09 PQ: 0 ANSI: 5[/HTML]

and the more important gap of time:

[HTML][    2.732659] input: SIGMACHIP Usb Mouse as /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:1d.0/usb4/4-2/4-2:1.0/input/input13
[    2.734239] hid-generic 0003:1C4F:0034.0001: input,hidraw0: USB HID v1.10 Mouse [SIGMACHIP Usb Mouse] on usb-0000:00:1d.0-2/input0
[    3.733037] EXT4-fs (sda5): mounting ext3 file system using the ext4 subsystem
[    3.753866] EXT4-fs (sda5): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode. Opts: (null)
[    4.211336] random: nonblocking pool is initialized
[   32.230136] Adding 1124512k swap on /dev/sda6.  Priority:-1 extents:1 across:1124512k FS
[   32.331300] IPv6: ADDRCONF(NETDEV_UP): eth0: link is not ready
[   32.540955] systemd-udevd[312]: starting version 204
[   32.872082] lp: driver loaded but no devices found
[   32.914350] ppdev: user-space parallel port driver[/HTML]

Could someone with enough knowledge ( I don't understand this phrases in dmesg) address the problem for so long booting time?.

Although I know 14.04 requires more powerfull machines than 12.04, I don't think is reasonable to take more than 2 minutes in booting.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by spbach1234 on 2015-07-15
It may just be you have some very ram intensive prosess running at startup and consuming resources.
-Spbach1234

---

### Post by claracc on 2015-07-17
Any other idea about the longer boot time?, can it be considered as  normal for my hardware and ubuntu 14.04. 2 gnome fallback softwarev, to boot in abot 2 minutes ?

---

### Post by amoun on 2015-07-17
**From 8.04 to 14.04**

Just to say I think you are right in being concerned.

I recently updated my 8 year old Asus eeePC 900 (900MHz 1G) from Hardy 8.04 to Trusty 14.04.

I was concerned that the little old netbook wouldn't cope but was assured it would by someone who had just done that.

It works fine.

Boot to log in is 56 sec which includes 14 to decrypt my home folder. It then takes 25 sec to get the desktop working.
I never did a time check on Hardy but it doesn't seem any different

---

### Post by gdesilva on 2015-07-17
Hi, 

Interesting observations...Here is what I see on my system.

With regards to the first delay you have noted, in my case I also find a 0.3 sec delay which probably is not that significant.

[    0.232554] pci 0000:01:00.0: Video device with shadowed ROM[    0.232673] PCI: CLS 64 bytes, default 64
[    0.232713] Trying to unpack rootfs image as initramfs...
[    0.517677] Freeing initrd memory: 25260K (ffff880034e9a000 - ffff880036745000)

However, with regards to your third observation, I too notice a massive delay...


[    3.135632] EXT4-fs (sdb1): mounted filesystem with ordered data mode. Opts: (null)
[   18.603917] Adding 8388604k swap on /dev/sda5.  Priority:-1 extents:1 across:8388604k FS

Which is consistent with your observation. It appears  that adding swap takes a long time depending on how much swap space one allows. In your case the delay is larger but your swap is larger than in my case.

I never use hibernation and do not intend doing so, so I might remove swap space and see what will happen and report back.

---

### Post by gdesilva on 2015-07-17
Hi, I think my line of thinking was wrong.....it appears that approx. 15 second delay is in the mounting  root file system. Removing swap did not make any difference to that figure.

Will be interested to hear what others have to say....


EDIT : Checked a few other machines and they all seem to take around 15s to mount the root filesystem.

---

### Post by claracc on 2015-07-18
I don't think the adding of swapp be the cause of the delay since I have set vm.swappiness=10 in /etc/sysctl.conf as it is recommended.

Really I am lost, I don't know the cause in the slower boot. Previous 12.04 system booted like an arrow.

Perhaps to have the gnome fallback session could be the cause?, as I have mentioned from introducing user and pass till an operative desktop about 1 minute and 15 seconds pass.

Also, I have noticed log out takes more than 2 minutes ( I don't know if it is related with boot time delay). If I close evolution before logout there is not any delay. However shutdown button works perfectly, and computer turns off in about 10 seconds.

I don't know what more to see. 

Thanks for every comments

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-07-18
Do you have a large / (root) partition? On a large drive?
Is swap encrypted (if /home is encrypted then swap is also)?

My old 2006 laptop with 12.04 & fallback boots in about 40 sec, but I use 25GB for /.
My part 2006, part 2009 desktop & fallback also booted in about 40 sec, but then in 2011 I added a small SSD and it booted in 20 sec.
But new UEFI system with 8GB of RAM and SSD with 14.04 & fallback seems to take 20 sec from shutdown to working system. But I put in 3 sec delay on UEFI & 3 sec delay on grub menu so I could press a key. Dmesg say it boots in 2.9 sec? but largest delay is mounting swap (not encrypted).

---

### Post by claracc on 2015-07-19
No, my root partition is 24 GB and I don't have encrypted my home folder.

Here are attached, the specifications of my laptop, and here is the partitions in the ubuntu part, since this laptop is dual boot windows vista/ubuntu 14.04

clara@clara1:~$ df -h
S.ficheros     Tamaño Usados  Disp Uso% Montado en
/dev/sda5         24G   8,8G   14G  40% /
none             4,0K      0  4,0K   0% /sys/fs/cgroup
udev             991M   4,0K  991M   1% /dev
tmpfs            201M   892K  200M   1% /run
none             5,0M      0  5,0M   0% /run/lock
none            1004M   496K 1004M   1% /run/shm
none             100M    52K  100M   1% /run/user
/dev/sda7         46G    24G   19G  56% /home

I have tried the following, I have removed  evolution from applications at startup and since I introduce user and pass till a working desktop, the time is 40 seconds (it has been reduced from the 1 minute and 15 seconds with evolution launched at startup). Also the kind of partition is ext3. 

From selecting the kernel in grub (I use grub legacy, I don't know if it is important) till the display for introducing user and pass in gnome fallback (metacity) desktop is shown, time remains  about 1 minute.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-07-19
I use grub2, but do not think that makes any real difference in boot time. Actually may be slightly slower as it has many more features to support newer systems.

I also use ext4 which has been the standard since about 9.10? I think Ubuntu had to modify grub legacy to work with ext4 and not all grub legacy versions work with ext4.

Both my old laptop & old desktop before SSD, booted in 30 to 40 sec. So I do not think that your 40 sec can be improved a lot. Perhaps some minor things.

Linux automatically caches activity in RAM, so if you reuse something it may still be in RAM, so more RAM up to about 4GB helps system, but does not help booting as that is drive speed. When I changed to SSD on older laptop it improved boot & loading of larger apps a lot, but speed of system did not change much.
Of course my upgrades did not speed up my typing, which seems to be the biggest bottleneck in my systems. :)

---

### Post by claracc on 2015-07-20
So I assume that my hard disk is the responsible for ubuntu 14.04 taking about one minute since kernel selected in grub till the display to introduce user and pass in gnome flashback metacity display appears?. I have noted that it is more than in my previous 12.04 fallback system.

The 40 seconds from introducing user and pass is enough good for me.

Thanks for comments

---

### Post by gdesilva on 2015-07-21
Following some information provided by others I thought of checking out whether the size of the root partition will have a significant effect on boot time. Here are my findings.

With root fs of size 80GB the time to mount the fs was around 15s. (see my post above).

Shrunk the root fs to approx. 30GB and the time to mount is still 15s.

So, it appears that the size of the root partition does not significantly affect the boot time - ie. it remains almost a constant within the above measured parameters. However, I would expect it to be significantly different if a SSD was used.

Just some trivia. It would be interesting to hear what the OP's findings on this issue.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-07-21
I would expect with fast hard drives a larger / (root) partition would not make a huge difference.

But some with new 1 or 2TB drives use default install and have just / & swap. And Boot-Repairs summary report shows boot files scattered about drive as that is ext4 way to write full file and avoid fragmentation. While even then I would expect noticeable boot time to not be much longer,  drive has to do more/longer seeks across entire drive.

---

