---
title: "18.04 loaded as 32 bit in my 64 bit computer?"
date: 2018-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rapidrob on 2018-11-16
I upgraded a 14.04 32 bit computer to 64 bit CPU and graphics card. I downloaded 18.04 last night and it was ready by this morning. When I check the gear icon in the upper right corner for "about this computer" it shows 32 bit? Is this normal?

---

### Post by QIII on 2018-11-16
Did you download the 32 or 64 bit installation iso?

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2018-11-16
Regular Ubuntu 18.04 is only available as 64 bit .iso. The lighter flavours also have a 32 bit .iso, just as the minimal installer and you can get 32 bit Ubuntu by upgrading from a previous release.

What does```
uname -a
```show you? Maybe "about this computer" is somehow confused.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2018-11-16
Did you clean install or do an upgrade from 14.04?

---

### Post by rapidrob on 2018-11-16
upgrade. 
Here is what came up.
Linux rob-desktop 4.15.0-39-generic #42-Ubuntu SMP Tue Oct 23 15:43:58 UTC 2018 i686 i686 i686 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-11-16
If upgraded then par for the course, you can only upgrade to the same arch already installed.
If you want to replace the 32-bit version with 64-bit then you need to do a clean install, fresh.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2018-11-16
If the current 32 bit system is running well and does all you want and need I suggest you stick with it until you next need to upgrade your OS, possibly when 20.04 arrives in 18 months time.  What hardware do you now have, particularly RAM which is the main notable difference between 32 and 64 bit systems?

32 bit can use a max of 4GB RAM but 64 bit can use amounts way beyond anyone's likely needs at present. I'm not sure of the actual figure, and it depends on the OS kernel (Windows or Linux) and I have seen figures of 3TB, ie, a huge amount of RAM.

You will then need to backup all your important personal files (which I trust you do already!), clean install the OS and then restore your files back again from the backup.
That could be the time to consider creating and using either a separate /home partition to aid future OS upgrades, or a separate data partition where all your files are saved.

---

### Post by rapidrob on 2018-11-16
I have 8 GB of "Gaming" RAM. I'm not a gamer, just into photography and Vids.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2018-11-17
32 bit Ubuntu can handle more than 4GiB of memory (because of [PAE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physical_Address_Extension)), but it cannot assign more than 4GiB of memory to a single application, which your video editor may need. So 64 bit is better. Add to this that support for 32 bit is slowly disappearing, for example Chrome is only available as 64 bit nowadays.

So download the .iso for 64 bit Ubuntu, make backups of your files and do a clean install. Or, if you're happy with the current situation, do nothing until you want to upgrade your Ubuntu release.

---

### Post by rapidrob on 2018-11-17
I can remove and wipe the drive. When the drive is reinstalled,what is the best way for the motherboard to see the Unbutu 18.04 OS software on boot up? Should I try to down load to a thumbdrive and then load from there? I'm not a Geek, just like to play around a little.

---

