---
title: "8.04 Won't Go To Login Screen"
date: 2008-07-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FlamingChainsaws on 2008-07-23
I'm running Hardy Heron Satanic Edition. When I start my computer, it gets to the bootup logo thing ([http://ubuntusatanic.org/screenshots/Runes-Usplash-ss.jpg](http://ubuntusatanic.org/screenshots/Runes-Usplash-ss.jpg)), and stops at the first "A". Then, after a while, this shows up:
checking drive /dev/sda1: 44% (stage 1/5, 279/439) over and over
/dev/sda1: Inodes that were part of a corrupted orphan linked list found
/dev/sda1: UNEXPECTED INCONSISTENCY; RUN fsck MANUALLY
(i.e., without -a or -p options)

fsck died with exit status 4
[fail]

*An automatic filesystem check (fsck) of the root filesystem failed.
A manual fsck must be performed, then the system restarted.
The fsck should be performed in maintenance mode with the
root filesystem mounted in read-only mode.
The root filesystem is currently mounted in read-only mode.
A maintenance shell will now be started.
After performing system maintenance press CONTROL-D
to terminate the maintenance shell and restart the system.
give root password:
bash: no job control in this shell
bash: lesspipe: command not found
bash: command: command not found
bash: the: command not found
bash: dircolors: command not found
bash: command: command not found
bash: the: command not found

Thanks much for help.

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-07-23
Did you change any partitioning after doing the install and if you press the Ctrl+d keys does the boot up resume?

You might want to consider getting [this]("http://www.sysresccd.org/Main_Page") as a tool for file system maintenance.

---

