---
title: "11.10, HD 3000, confusion"
date: 2011-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jdawg70 on 2011-12-16
Should Ubuntu 11.10 64-bit support Intel Sandy Bridge HD 3000 graphics with acceleration out of the box?  I've been Googling around for *hours* and am just getting unrelated and conflicting results.

Found:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/69695/driver-for-intel-hd-3000-core-i7-2630qm](http://askubuntu.com/questions/69695/driver-for-intel-hd-3000-core-i7-2630qm)

But my experience is not like this.  I've got the Intel xorg drivers installed, mesa-utils, but Unity is still all 2D-y and running glxgears gives:

Xlib:  extension "GLX" missing on display ":0".
Error: couldn't get an RGB, Double-buffered visual

lspci | grep VGA:

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 2nd Generation Core Processor Family Integrated Graphics Controller (rev 09)

Thanks

---

### Post by thaelim on 2011-12-16
It certainly should - I'm running the exact same platform and I can tell you it works OOTB. If you can post the contents of /var/log/Xorg.0.log we can get started debugging this.

---

### Post by jdawg70 on 2011-12-16
> **thaelim said:**
> It certainly should - I'm running the exact same platform and I can tell you it works OOTB. If you can post the contents of /var/log/Xorg.0.log we can get started debugging this.

Thanks.

I have my old Nvidia card in the machine right now, so I won't be able to post the Xorg.0.log until I get back home and pull it.  But since the driver should be good to go, my suspicion that some package is missing from my install is pretty much clarified.  I had 11.10 installed on a different mobo with this Nvidia card before the mobo swap, so I imagine that's making things a little wonky.

---

### Post by Basher101 on 2011-12-16
I am a bit confuse too..

I have a Z68 motherboard (see all specs below) and can run Lucid Virtu to use both GPUs at the same time in Windows. In the BIOS i have the onboard graphics configured for d-mode (not being "visible" like a second graphics card, but still used for additional video performance). Now i googled but could not find anything regarding Virtu for Linux, maybe because those boards are fairly new...

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-12-16
i7 Sandy Bridge Laptop from System76. Unity 3D works out of the box, you can get straight from the LiveCD.

I don't have an xorg.conf file.

---

### Post by jdawg70 on 2011-12-17
Solved!

I was going to post my Xorg.0.log output, but after I killed the Nvidia drivers and yoinked the card, X wasn't starting automatically.  Manual startx -> Desktop.  Still no glxgears.

Bugged by startx dealy.  Reset compiz settings.

3D goodness.

Thanks all.

---

