---
title: "Multiseat for hardy heron"
date: 2008-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Augustino on 2008-11-16
Hello

Using [https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/multiseat/0.9.11](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/hardy/+source/multiseat/0.9.11)

I have installed udev, module-init-tools, pci utils, debconf and all
the dependencies needed, tried running almost all the files included
in the multiseat package in terminal using sudo, but not work the
multiseat system

I have the Intel D975 Motherboard with 3 PCI x16 in each one I have
the Asus nVidia EN6200TC512

I have enabled the nVidia drivers, but just I have image in one
monitor of 6 monitors

The xorg.conf have the following configuration is:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
       Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
       Driver          "kbd"
       Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
       Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
       Option          "XkbLayout"     "es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
       Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
       Driver          "mouse"
       Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
       Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
       Driver          "nvidia"
       Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
       Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
       Identifier      "Default Screen"
       Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
       Device          "Configured Video Device"
       Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
       Identifier      "Default Layout"
 screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
       Load            "glx"
EndSection

What should I do to install the multiseat system?

Best Regards

---

### Post by Augustino on 2008-11-17
nobody knows the multiseat 0.9.11 for ubuntu hardy heron?

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-11-17
I can see that english is not your first language, but can you explain what the problem is a little better? Does the program not compile? If the program installed properly ahve a look here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=707796](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=707796)

for a multiseat howto.

Jim

---

### Post by Augustino on 2008-11-17
> **cariboo907 said:**
> I can see that english is not your first language, but can you explain what the problem is a little better? Does the program not compile? If the program installed properly ahve a look here:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=707796](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=707796)

for a multiseat howto.

Jim

When I put this in terminal:

> 
DISPLAY=$MAIN_DISPLAY sudo /usr/bin/Xgl -dpi 86 -ac -accel glx:pbuffer -accel xv:pbuffer -softcursor $SEAT2_GEOMETRY :1.0 &


say me 

Could not init font path element /usr/share/fonts/X11/TTF/, removing from list!
Could not init font path element /usr/share/fonts/X11/OTF, removing from list!
Could not init font path element /usr/share/fonts/X11/CID/, removing from list!
XIO:  fatal IO error 11 (Resource temporarily unavailable) on X server ":0.0"
      after 81 requests (81 known processed) with 0 events remaining.

[1]+  Exit 1                  DISPLAY=$MAIN_DISPLAY sudo /usr/bin/Xgl -dpi 86 -ac -accel glx:pbuffer -accel xv:pbuffer -softcursor $SEAT2_GEOMETRY :1.0


________________________________________________

I am trying with this  [http://es.wikibooks.org/wiki/Multiterminal/Usando_Xephyr](http://es.wikibooks.org/wiki/Multiterminal/Usando_Xephyr)

This is for debian sarge and I am testing in ubuntu hardy heron, Will it work?

---

