---
title: "16.04 requires frequent reboot"
date: 2017-04-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Billingd on 2017-04-17
Hi 

I have ubuntu 16.04 installed on a lenovo laptop. All running very well, apart from a couple of applications that require a reboot in order for them to startup reliably. Both spotify and kodi will often hang during startup unless I have rebooted the PC beforehand - in which case they start up fine. Just wondering if anyone has any similar experience or ideas for resolving. Had this problem since initial installation of 16.04 8 months ago, and application updates to kodi and spotify have not resolved.

Many thanks



David

---

### Post by TheFu on 2017-04-17
Check the log files.  Any issues should be posted there.  Both the application logs AND the system logs.
The kodi team asks for log files with their issues all the time.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxLogFiles](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/LinuxLogFiles)

I use kodi almost daily and have a few addons installed.  There is one that I shouldn't use because it _could_ access content that isn't legal in my location. If I use it, other plugins seem to have issues until I remove the offending (semi-legal) addon . It doesn't always cause issues immediately, but eventually they happen.  Without that single addon, kodi is very stable - multiple weeks without any issues while using other addons all-the-time.

I should also say that my main kodi use is on a raspberry pi. Kodi is also installed on an x86 box here that seldom gets used. I don't recall having any issues with any addons on that machine, but it gets used only to play online streamed content from the 
a) TV networks (usually missed or interrupted by political or weather emergencies); CBS, you suck!
b) online, ad-supported, streaming sites like crackle and tubi.tv
c) livestreams for sports that don't get carried on **any** TV channels available. For example, there is a competition for my favorite sport starting Thursday-Sunday in Windsor, CA that will be live-streamed.  Preliminaries begin Thursday, which would never be shown on any TV anywhere.

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2017-04-18
I am not sure about spotify. But, one of my friends ran into this kodi issue. I think it was one of the add-on, plug-in which was giving him trouble. He disabled/removed all and then re-installed one at a time and the problem went away.

---

