---
title: "12.04.2 Stuck in Login Loop"
date: 2013-03-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LifeWithoutWindows on 2013-03-17
I'm in a bit of a predicament
I can't login through my normal account ([COLOR=#000000]the screen goes black and goes back to the login prompt)[/COLOR], and when I try to open the terminal with CTRL+ALT+F1, I get a black screen and a purple bar across the top
I've got no Idea how to fix this

---

### Post by LifeWithoutWindows on 2013-03-17
bump

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-03-18
It would help to answer your question if you were more specific about why (or how) you can't login through your normal account

If it's a password issue, you can fix it from the recovery console using the instructions here --> [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/resetpassword)

---

### Post by LifeWithoutWindows on 2013-03-18
I'll fix that
When I try to log in, the screen goes black and goes back to the login prompt

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2013-03-18
There is a file in your home directory called .XAuthority. Make sure it is owned by your user account or writable by all users.

---

### Post by LifeWithoutWindows on 2013-03-18
> **3rdalbum said:**
> There is a file in your home directory called .XAuthority. Make sure it is owned by your user account or writable by all users.

I can't open the terminal with CTRL+ALT+F1 though (shows a blank black screen)
How would I access it in this case?

---

### Post by LifeWithoutWindows on 2013-03-18
I can't seem to find .xauthority
I'm looking in my partition's home directory via a live CD and I can't find it

---

### Post by GrouchyGaijin on 2013-03-18
I remember once that I had a program installed that would not work properly.  The error had to do with .xauthority.  I couldn't find it either, so I created an empty file and named it .xauthority (or .XAuthority, I can't remember).  The problem disappeared after I created that file.

---

### Post by LifeWithoutWindows on 2013-03-18
> **GrouchyGaijin said:**
> I remember once that I had a program installed that would not work properly.  The error had to do with .xauthority.  I couldn't find it either, so I created an empty file and named it .xauthority (or .XAuthority, I can't remember).  The problem disappeared after I created that file.

well, now I can access the TTY Terminal, but there's no login prompt
I'm thinking it'd be easier just to reinstall

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2013-03-18
If you can boot into 'recovery mode' then you should be able to do everything from there - you will need to remount the filesystem with read-write permissions, but it will be much quicker than reinstalling. That's assuming the .Xauthority file is the problem of course (fwiw it does match your symptoms).

---

