---
title: "Is 12.04x64 known to be buggy in VB VM on x64 win host?"
date: 2012-05-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by computeratin on 2012-05-17
I'm in the process of switching from win7 to UB as my primary OS.
 
I've been playing with UB VMs for a year now. I know how to set them up correctly.
 
But, I still have a lot to learn about UB in general. Before I blow off my primary partition and convert I am going to build a special project for my wife. It will be my first UB build on hardware. It will involve lots of tweaks and hacks. I wanted to test those in a VM before I put it on hardware so I don't blow up the install.
 
But, I haven't even been able to get that far. I've been having tons and tons of low level system corruption issues. 
 
From the symptoms, if this were a winstall on hardware, I'd say that it was a corrupted video driver.
 
So, I'm wondering if Unityx64 is know to not play nice with VMs?
 
I've looked around and haven't been able to find any info.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-17
In VirtualBox, open the settings for your VM, and click on System on the left side. Make sure the chipset is PIIX3. Make sure the box is checked next to 'Enable IO APIC'. In the 'Processor' tab, make sure the box is checked next to 'Enable PAE/NX'. In the 'Acceleration' tab, make sure both boxes are checked. Note that your VM has to be shut down and not in snapshot mode to change the settings.

Sometimes VirtualBox struggles with 64-bit OSs if these settings aren't right. Also, make sure you have Guest Additions installed from within your VM. If you already have those things set right, I don't know what to tell you.

---

### Post by holycow131415 on 2012-05-17
When you do go on physical hardware, I'd advise you to just install Ubuntu side by side with Windows just in case. Dual booting will still allow you to use Ubuntu as your primary OS. It's always good to keep Windows as a back up in case Ubuntu gets messed up. Another example is that a lot of commercial softwares only work in Windows, or support teams from companies support Windows.

---

### Post by computeratin on 2012-05-17
Well I know I didn't check the box for 3D acceleration because every other OS (except XP) and every other UB distro I've put in to a VM gave me fits when I tried to use it. I'll enable it when I get home. Thanks for the help.
 
And I will end up with a dual boot. Right now I dual 7 and 7. One side has stupid, over the top security and got infected any way when I broke my own rules and let win connect directly to the web to DL an ISO from a very reputable site that had evidently been breached and gave me coodies. (Instead of using an UB VM for the job, like I knew I was supposed to.) 
 
My win sec skills are top notch. I have so many layers it's not even funny; registry virtualization, sandboxes, endpoint client, registry hacks, custom LGPE templates, and on and on. The virus writers are simply better than the counter tech b/c they move much faster and there are sooooooooo many holes in doze.
 
I took special precautions to prevent cross contamination to the paralel install. And they worked. (The sec it is not quite as tight, so I could play my games.)
 
So, I'm going to un-Bit Locker the games install, kill the primary and set up a UB / 7 dual with UB as the primary.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-17
Pirating software is just asking for trouble, no matter where you get it and how much security you have. I've run Windows for a long time with absolutely no 3rd party security at all, and never had any trouble with malware. It's the people who freak out about security that have the most trouble because they think they can do stupid things and get away without any trouble.

---

### Post by computeratin on 2012-05-17
> **forrestcupp said:**
> Pirating software is just asking for trouble, no matter where you get it and how much security you have. I've run Windows for a long time with absolutely no 3rd party security at all, and never had any trouble with malware. It's the people who freak out about security that have the most trouble because they think they can do stupid things and get away without any trouble.
 
 
Um, what are you talking about / smoking? See that's one of the reasons I gave up on this forum 8 months when I first started getting in *nix. If you say "My windows got dirty" then the first thing people here say is: "You're a pirate"!
 
Well as a matter o fact, not only am I not a pirate but I also just happen to hold a security clearance and would never do anything to mess that up because then I'd lose my abilty to do spiffy things like eat and pay rent!
 
And for your smarty pants bees wax: The ISO I was trying to DL was a free *nix forensics distro from a prestigious Italian university that does landmark computer research. I like to play with stuff like that. I'm a geek. It sounded cool.
 
Unfortantely it was so cool that some butthead cracked their site and put coodies in it which I caught, even though I have crazy security.
 
They were some mean coodies and you like to jump to conclusions. 
 
So do a lot of other people here.

---

### Post by forrestcupp on 2012-05-17
> **computeratin said:**
> 
They were some mean coodies and you like to jump to conclusions. 


Ha, ha. Sorry man. But when you talk about downloading an iso from some web site that is usually reputable, but it gave you "coodies", what am I supposed to think? :)

But hopefully if you check those settings I mentioned earlier, it will help you out.

---

