---
title: "Multiple downloads 3 hrs each, can not stop. Help !"
date: 2024-01-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BrassCat on 2024-01-18
Hello the forum. I am running Ubuntu 22.04 LTS. Trying to download Kubuntu to burn DVD for another sys build. 
Canceled 5 minutes in, as it was to take 3 hrs. Fine, just not right time to perform this. So I canceled. except it
did not cancel. When I started to download again, No screen shown download appeared, tried several times.

When I went to close Firefox, it stated I had 7 downloads in progress ! It gave me the option to cancel these download
which I used. Closed Firefox and tried again. I got no download screen, again. Closing Firefox, I now have 8 3 hrs download
in progress. Theses downloads do not cancel properly. Reboot this linux, they are still there.

How can I cancel / flush these downloads ?

Thanks for any help, Stan.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2024-01-18
To make life easier I suggest that you install Stacer which is a resource monitoring GUI.

Launching Stacer, in the 6th button down in UI you can monitor all running processes.
 
You can select any running process(es) and kill it/them

I know you can use command line for same purpose but it is much easier to visualise resources in a GUI. It is a Swiss army knife but do learn commands in parallel with GUI.

[Stacer link]("https://oguzhaninan.github.io/Stacer-Web/")

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2024-01-18
Did you try a reboot? 

Where are you getting this ISO image? Did you get it here: [http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/jammy/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/kubuntu/jammy/daily-live/current/)

Obviously speed depends a lot on how big your Internet pipe is. I just started downloading the ISO from that link. On my 300 Mbps connection it was estimated to take ten minutes or less.

---

### Post by BrassCat on 2024-01-18
Thanks for the responses.

I will be looking into stacer, thanks

I went to Ubuntu website, link to Kubuntu.org. 
Download from >>>> [https://kubuntu.org/getkubuntu/](https://kubuntu.org/getkubuntu/)

I am connected thru a DSL. download
speed is varying from 300 to 700 KB/Sec.

Yes, I did reboot at least twice. Even powered down to remove myself from the problem
and consider what was happening. Turned on later, problem still there. Then I got a notice Firefox 
was running two copies !!  ???  Wow.  Got both closed. Deleted partial download files. New download 
in progress now. 3.2 of 4 GB.  All seems OK.

[[COLOR=#000000]SeijiSensei[/COLOR]]("https://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=698195")[COLOR=#000000], you internet connection is mush faster than mine.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by guiverc on 2024-01-18
This doesn't really relate to your actual question, but it maybe helpful.

Are you downloading the full ISO?   If so, and have limited or slow bandwidth why?

I just updated a *daily* of Lubuntu 22.04 LTS, which I'm grabbing for QA purposes, but I sure don't download the whole ISO given only parts have changed.  I use `zsync` for the download and in the output I note

```

Read jammy-desktop-amd64.iso. Target 95.3% complete.

```

ie. other than the tiny .zsync file, my system uses CPU to compare what I have already, and then decide I only need to download the differences (4.7% of ISO).

If I wanted to download an that I didn't have a prior copy of, I'd *guesstimate* what ISO I currently have that is possibly closest to it, then use that.. or even do comparisons using a number of existing ISOs... ie. I'm doing lots of calculations on my box (ie. power & heat generated by CPU) but using almost no bandwidth.. and even if I start from a different release (eg. *23.10 ISO as starting point to download a 22.04 ISO, or if I want a Xubuntu ISO I may start with a Lubuntu ISO to save bandwidth*) I usually start with 23-63% already completed meaning the download is greatly reduced.

Maybe using a different download method may be better for you.

FYI:  My next download just started..

```

Read noble-desktop-amd64.iso. Target 98.2% complete. 

```

ie. in my case I'm 98.2% completed before the real download even starts.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ZsyncCdImage](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/ZsyncCdImage)

---

