---
title: ".run files, and how to run them"
date: 2007-02-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Strider42 on 2007-02-08
Hi,

I know this might sound stupid, but how do you run a .run file.  I have downloaded a Linux game (True Combat Elite) and it's saved to my desktop as a .run file - but when I try to do the install I get an error message telling me "could not open the file /home/paul/Desktop/true.combat.elite_049b-english-2.run".

Am I trying to install this incorrectly?  I'm guessing, double clicking the file is the wrong way to get this game installed :oops:

Any help appreciated as I'm still trying to get to grips with Ubuntu / Linux.

Thanks

---

### Post by zvezdogled on 2007-02-08
In linux u usually install things via terminal.
So what you should do is open an terminal, navigate to the your .run file and run it with comand  ./yourfile.run

Or in your case just write in terminal:

./home/paul/Desktop/true.combat.elite_049b-english-2.run

(watch for the fulstop at the begining)

I hope this will help.

---

### Post by sdide on 2007-02-08
Hey,

To run your file, open a terminal window (e.g gnome-terminal) and do :

cd /home/paul/Desktop

chmod 777 true.combat.elite_049b-english-2.run

./true.combat.elite_049b-english-2.run

---

### Post by pay on 2007-02-08
You can also run ```
sh /home/paul/Desktop/true.combat.elite_049b-english-2.run
```If you don't want to change the permissions or ```
sudo sh /home/paul/Desktop/true.combat.elite_049b-english-2.run
```So that every user can use it.

---

### Post by NicePics13 on 2007-02-08
The previous poster likes the command line, as do I, but newbies generally don't :-k 
[LIST=1]
[*]Check that the .run file is executable in Nautilus (right click - properties - permissions)
[*]Now when you double click the .run file Nautilus asks you what to do with it - run it (*run in terminal* if you want to know what it's doing)
[/LIST]

---

### Post by Strider42 on 2007-02-08
Top stuff guys.  Thank you all.  It's a steep learning curve, but I'm enjoying it :)

---

