---
title: "evolution and spam"
date: 2006-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by graigsmith on 2006-04-29
i have tried bogofilter, i have tried spam assassin, can't get usable spam protection working.  I don't wanna try using 2 spam filters if i cant even get one of them working.  i have a spam folder full of about 900 spam emails.   ](*,) 

i would prefer to use bogofilter, since it's in the main repositories.  i tried setting up some message filters, to get that running, and it diddn't seem to do anything.  tried training my 900 spams, took about 3 minutes or so, and still i get spam.

and spam assassin just plain sucks. ok, so it doesn't miss everything, but it misses most everything - which is pointless for me since i get so much spam.

---

### Post by Computeruser on 2006-04-29
I'm not sure what you are doing with Spamassassin, but it won awards two years running as the best spam filter out there. I use it. Last year, my mail account was hit with 10,000 spams. 100 got into my inbox. That is 99 percent effective. This year, spammers have redoubled their efforts and I have dropped to 98 percent reduction. I have redoubled my own efforts, and gotten more aggressive at blacklisting and scoring. These efforts seem to be paying off. 

You have to understand the user prefs file and set scoring to reduce spam and consider blacklisting domains responsible for spam. Spamassassin works and works well.

---

### Post by graigsmith on 2006-04-29
"You have to understand the user prefs file and set scoring to reduce spam and consider blacklisting domains responsible for spam. Spamassassin works and works well."

well, i put this in my /etc/mail/spamassassin/local.cf file
```
# SpamAssassin config file for version 3.x
# NOTE: NOT COMPATIBLE WITH VERSIONS 2.5 or 2.6
# See http://www.yrex.com/spam/spamconfig25.php for earlier versions
# Generated by http://www.yrex.com/spam/spamconfig.php (version 1.50)

# How many hits before a message is considered spam.
required_score           5.0

# Encapsulate spam in an attachment (0=no, 1=yes, 2=safe)
report_safe             0

# Enable the Bayes system
use_bayes               1

# Enable Bayes auto-learning
bayes_auto_learn              1

# Enable or disable network checks
skip_rbl_checks         0
use_razor2              1
use_dcc                 1
use_pyzor               1

# Mail using languages used in these country codes will not be marked
# as being possibly spam in a foreign language.
# - english 
ok_languages            en 

# Mail using locales used in these country codes will not be marked
# as being possibly spam in a foreign language.
ok_locales              en 


```

and its still not working. does spam assassin have to be running or something? or does evolution automatically call it?  what does the sa-plugin in evolution do?  does simply marking spam as junk train the filter?

---

### Post by Computeruser on 2006-04-29
I use Spamassassin at my mail ISP. Spamassassin just marks the mail with a score and sets a flag. I further re-write the message subject to prepend *****SPAM**** (rewrite_header Subject). But Spamassassin itself does not stop any mail. You could rewrite your subject and then send such subjects to your junk mail folder.

In my case, I invoke Spamassassin via Procmail. A short script in Procmail checks the flag and send all "yes" flags to /dev/null. I can see false positives in procmail.log. 

I can't help much beyond that (especially if you are running Spamassassin yourself). Good luck

---

### Post by cssutto on 2006-04-29
I had the same problem.

Someone steered me to this and two days later, I am hitting about 85%.

After about 400 spams.

This will cure your problem if you follow every detail.

CsSJR

---

### Post by graigsmith on 2006-04-30
nvm i upgraded to dapper, and the spam filtering works in it because it's using bogofilter, and evolution has the bogofilter plugin.

plus gstreamer .1 is pretty cool. its actually useful.

---

