---
title: "[12.04 LTS] Skype Notification Tray and Existing Instances"
date: 2012-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2012-05-01
After upgrading to 11.10 to 12.04LTS, I notice that the Skype  Notification Tray in the Top Panel became non-existent. While at first  it doesn't seem to be a problem, I found out that reopening the program  just won't do: **[COLOR=Red]Another Skype Instance may exist[/COLOR]**[COLOR=Black] prompts on the login screen on Skype.

HOW TO FIX

[/COLOR]Will need:

[LIST]
[*]Internet Connection
[*]Terminal
[/LIST]
(optional) STEP 0: **KILL** [COLOR=Red]existing instance[/COLOR] [COLOR=Black][COLOR=Navy]**ONLY IF SKYPE was previously OPENED**[/COLOR]
[/COLOR][INDENT]Open TERMINAL (CTRL+ALT+T) or via Unity Launcher[INDENT]type and enter: ***ps aux | grep -i skype***
[/INDENT]You will then have two lines of codes consisting of your  Username and a 4-digit processing id; One of the lines will have [COLOR=Red]**Skype**[/COLOR] on it. _Used the 4-digit in **that line**_.in[INDENT]type and enter: ***kill -9 (4-digit)***
[/INDENT][/INDENT]STEP 1: Download and Install *_dconf Editor_* via TERMINAL[INDENT][INDENT]type and enter: **sudo apt-get install dconf-tools**
prompt & enter: _**your password**_
after installation, close TERMINAL
[/INDENT][/INDENT]STEP 2: On DASH HOME, search and open _**dconf Editor**_[INDENT][INDENT]go to [B]desktop > unity > panel
[/B][INDENT]you will see [B]systray-whitelist
Add [COLOR=Red]'Skype'[/COLOR][/B] inside the brackets 
NOTE: (each words are separated by comma(,) 
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]FINISH!

viola! You can now see the SKYPE Icon in the NOTIFICATION TRAY in the TOP PANEL

---

### Post by ottosykora on 2012-05-21
well, but on my side I am now in unity, tried this, but the key desktop/unity/panel does not exist (12.04)

the only entry with panel is ibus

what to do?

---

### Post by stando007 on 2012-05-24
Hi,

this solution worked for me. I have Ubuntu 12.04 64bit. At least I thought I solved it. I have setup skype to start automatically (I added it to startup applications). 
But later I've found that occasionally skype icon does not appear on the panel after I am logged in my Ubuntu. Sometimes it is there, sometimes not. After killing skype process and starting it again, usually the icon comes up. 

Anybody with such strange behavior?

---

### Post by FenrirXIII on 2012-05-28
> **ottosykora said:**
> well, but on my side I am now in unity, tried this, but the key desktop/unity/panel does not exist (12.04)

the only entry with panel is ibus

what to do?

I am also using unity. please elaborate detail. so i can further help

[IMG]http://i48.photobucket.com/albums/f215/zentetzuken9687/Misc/Screenshotfrom2012-05-27232716.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Nat135 on 2012-09-18
This worked perfect for me, thanks a lot :) (I run Ubuntu 12.04 LTS with Unity on my Laptop)

---

### Post by taras.kuzyo on 2012-09-18
Worked for me too after re-logging.

---

