---
title: "How to install the new ATI drivers?"
date: 2008-09-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Alfx on 2008-09-18
So the new ATI drivers are out.

I heard they could fix the checkboard of doom I keep having.

I downloaded the driver, I ran sudo sh ati-driver-installer-8-9-x86.x86_64.run

then I proceeded with the installation.

I enabled them in the hardware drivers, then rebooted.

Upon restart I am forced to run in low graphic mode and no animation or anything works.

The only way I could get some drivers working, was with envyNG(which doesnt install the lastest drivers)

I need serious help

---

### Post by dontstealmyfish on 2008-09-20
im in the same boat. i recently installed the new 8.9 linux 64bit drivers from terminal, and it went in ok. i enabled the hardware and upon restart was forced into low graphics mode. it has a driver and monitor selection screen but it was hard to read. i tried a few things but none were working. any ideas? im using the 4870x2

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-04-30
> **dontstealmyfish said:**
> im in the same boat. i recently installed the new 8.9 linux 64bit drivers from terminal, and it went in ok. i enabled the hardware and upon restart was forced into low graphics mode. it has a driver and monitor selection screen but it was hard to read. i tried a few things but none were working. any ideas? im using the 4870x2

Holy crap September 20 2008 and no Response!!! LOL Here is what I suggest Get Ubuntu 9.04, install it and ATI 9.4 Drivers, reboot and stare at the Awesome Garbled locked up screen. Cool huh? :lolflag:

---

### Post by cmost on 2009-04-30
Try replacing the sparse (and entirely inadequate) xorg.conf with the one you backed up (you did make a backup, right?) the last time your ATI driver worked!  I'm finding xserver 1.6 and it's almost non-existent xorg.conf file to be entirely unacceptable in terms of performance.  Fortunately, any options you specify in xorg.conf override default xserver / xorg settings.  Good luck!

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-04-30
So if I install ubuntu, back up xorg.conf install ati driver then restore the old config file it will work? hmm, I bet it still wont work but what do i know. :)

---

### Post by cmost on 2009-05-01
No, no, no.  That's obviously not what I meant.  Try running a Sidux live DVD and back up its (excellent) xorg.conf.  Then, install Ubuntu.  Then install the ATI driver.  Copy the xorg.conf generated by Sidux, overwriting the wimpy Ubuntu generated xorg.conf.  Edit it to activate the ATI driver.  Reboot.  See if that helps.

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-01
When you say edit to activate ATI, would running aticonfig --initial -f work?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-05-01
Hang on a sec - you installed the driver using the manual installer and then you clicked Activate in Hardware Drivers? Wouldn't that just overwrite your brand new driver with the stock Ubuntu one?

---

### Post by ap90033 on 2009-05-01
No didnt do that. I mean install ati driver, overwrite xorg.conf then run aticonfig ---initial -f

---

