---
title: "10.10 Second monitor not working, strange issue."
date: 2010-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by altometer on 2010-12-30
Hello everyone,

I was previously using two monitors. I recently did a fresh install of maverick meerkat and was surprised to find that my second monitor only displayed the "Ubuntu" splash screen. 

I was not able to configure the monitor or control it from System>preferences>monitors
> sudo lshw -c video
[sudo] password for nathaniele: 
  *-display:0             
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 03
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: msi pm vga_controller bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:44 memory:fe400000-fe7fffff memory:d0000000-dfffffff ioport:dc00(size=8)
  *-display:1 UNCLAIMED
       description: Display controller
       product: 4 Series Chipset Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2.1
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.1
       version: 03
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=0
       resources: memory:fe800000-fe8fffff

After some searching I found something that said "update to the bleeding edge" After attempting this the monitor no longer shows a splash, but a single "_" in the top-left corner of the monitor.

Even stranger, when I unplug the monitor, and plug it back in, it turns completely green and causes text and immages on my working screen to mess up.

Does anyone have any troubleshooting tips or ideas?*

*I have attempted to re-install 10.4.1 and the issue persists. 
*reinstalled 10.10 and persists
*that update I did pushed me to 11.04
*no extended/restriced drivers are available.

Edit:Rebooted and the ubuntu splash is back. [http://www.majhost.com/gallery/Altometer/clean/img_0680.jpg](http://www.majhost.com/gallery/Altometer/clean/img_0680.jpg)

---

### Post by altometer on 2010-12-30
shameless bump. 
Update: the second screen displays the loading text while the ubuntu loading splash screen is displayed on the primary monitor.

This is weird I tell you!

---

