---
title: "9.10 Notification is Blacked out &amp; Dialog text is smeared"
date: 2010-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by braddcadd on 2010-01-06
Since I updated to 9.10 I've had 2 problems with display.  

(1) The notification bubble is blacked out.  System notifications, IM notifications, network notifications...none are visible.

(2) Some dialog boxes (not just OO) have unreadable text.  It happens for OO  every time.

(I am running an older IBM Thinkpad with a 1.8 MHz CPU and 1GHz of ram.)

Take a look at the attached images.

---

### Post by lotharmat on 2010-01-06
What display adapter is in your machine?

and do you have desktop effects enabled - Try disabling them if you have and see if this persists.

---

### Post by braddcadd on 2010-01-07
> **lotharmat said:**
> What display adapter is in your machine?

and do you have desktop effects enabled - Try disabling them if you have and see if this persists.

from LSPCI:
01:00.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility M7 LW [Radeon Mobility 7500]

Visual Effects are set to none.

Laptop is an IBM Thinkpad T42.  Thanks for any help, this is really annoying.  I have never had a problem with an update (sine 5.10) til now.

---

### Post by braddcadd on 2010-02-06
Any help with this one?  This is really annoying.

---

### Post by heavenly_blade101 on 2010-02-24
Bump, having the same problem on a T41, same vidcard, xubuntu 9.10

---

### Post by heavenly_blade101 on 2010-02-25
Sorry for the double post, but I found a way to "fix it". I just used xfce4-notifyd and it replaced the original notifications. works great.

---

### Post by braddcadd on 2010-02-26
Was that a daemon that you restarted or replaced somehow? Any ideas what to do in gnome?

---

### Post by braddcadd on 2010-05-15
The new version fixed the problem.  Thanks 10.04!

---

