---
title: "Blackbox, Debian menu system, and other weirdness"
date: 2006-07-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Krank on 2006-07-22
OK, um, hello? Is this thing on? Good... =)

Just move this thread if it's in the wrong place.

I'm using Blackbox, and thus the Debian "menu" package is the foundation for all my menuing (is that even a word?) needs.

As long as I only installed software through .debs and was content with the default menu additions, everything was just fine and hunky-dory.

However, I recently began having reason to add my own items to my menus, primarily for different Wine-emulated progs, such as uTorrent or DC++ (and no, I'm not interrested in any "but just use Azureus" arguments. I won't. Deal with it.)


So. I need to override the default menu system. On the surface, and according to the documentation of the "menu" package, this should be easy.

Combining the instructions found [here](http://olympus.het.brown.edu/cgi-bin/dwww?type=file&location=/usr/share/doc/menu/html/ch6.html) and [here](http://olympus.het.brown.edu/cgi-bin/dwww?type=file&location=/usr/share/doc/menu/html/ch3.html), I constructed a file called "utorrent" in my ~/.menu/ folder. The file contains the following:

```

?package(local.mystuff):\
       needs="X11"\
       section="Apps/Net"\
       title="uTorrent"\
       command="/usr/bin/wine /var/winapps/uTorrent/utorrent.exe"

```

I run "update-menus". It updates. If I intentionaly add some small error to the file, "update-menus" fails and informs me of the error. Therefore I must conclude that update-menus does indeed parse my file.

Here's the catch:

Nothing happens.

For each "update-menus", I've tried "blackbox->reconfigure", "blackbox-restart", and even CTRL-ALT-BACKSPACE - you know, the standard solutions for getting Blackbox to re-read its configurations and display the newly added software in the menu. It usually works, with software I've added from .debs...

But custom ones - oh-no.

Tried changing the (local.mystuff) to (wine) and (Wine), tried adding less weird commandlines ("gedit" and "/usr/bin/gedit"), tried different sections, tried removing the quote signs around the section...


What is the problem here?
Does anyone have any kind of experience with this stuff?

I'd be eternally grateful.

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2006-07-23
I've never used Blackbox (or Fluxbox or other derivatives), but I have used the Debian menu system.  I use FVWM, and it provides a script at /etc/menu-methods/fvwm to create menus in FVWM format.  The autogenerated menu is in /etc/X11/fvwm/DebianMenu.  TWM works the same way.  I can only assume Blackbox is similar.

---

### Post by Krank on 2006-07-23
Hm.

I found the autogenerated file (blackbox-menu)... Actually, I found two of them. I guess the one at /etc/X11/blackbox is "global" while the one at ~/.blackbox is "this user, specifically"...

OK, and I did eventually find a place where I *can* put my "override" files. The same place regular progs put them (/usr/share/menu)... This seems like a clunky solution, since the README in the same dir says:

```

In this directory, each individual package should install it's
menu files. Although changing them in this directory to change
the menus on your local system may work, the sysadmin (you?)
is best advised to put the local menufiles in /etc/menu, as,
otherwise your changes are deleted when you upgrade the
corresponding packages. Users may override the system-wide 
defaults by putting their menuentry files in ~/.menu.

```

Also, adding stuff to this dir adds ANOTHER dir to backup when making a settings backup.



However, I guess the problem has been "solved", even if not completely. I guess I'll never know why Blackbox/Menu doesn't care about local users' menu settings...

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2006-07-25
I think the menus in ~/.menu/ and /etc/X11/blackbox/ are completely different.  Maybe the ones in ~/.menu are used to generate the ones in /etc/X11/, but I doubt it.

---

### Post by jpkotta on 2006-07-25
Wow.  I was completely wrong.  For you to get the ones in ~/.menu, you have to run update-menus manually.  I'd say it would be easier just to put any extra menus in /etc/menu

---

### Post by 315234 on 2007-12-18
An explanation:

/etc/menu: system wide Debian menu files
~/.menu: user specific Debian menu files

/etc/X11/blackbox/blackbox-menu: system wide blackbox menu configuration
~/.blackbox/blackbox-menu: user specific blackbox menu
(similar directories can be found for other window managers)

update-menus: a utility to turn the Debian menu files into window manager specific menu configuration

menu-method: a script which does the WM specific conversion for update-menus. Each WM has one, it comes with the package, no-one but developers need worry about it.


So, to round up the issue:

Running update-menus as root works with system-wide (root) files. In other words, it reads from /etc/menu and (in the case of Blackbox) creates /etc/X11/blackbox/blackbox-menu.

Running update-menus as a normal user works with user specific files (since it can't do root stuff). In other words, it reads from ~/.menu and creates ~/.blackbox/blackbox-menu.

Hence, adding menu files to ~/.menu only ever effects ~/.blackbox/blackbox-menu. (There is probably some way to change this, but the following is a neater solution.)

Blackbox, by default, reads menu configuration from /etc/X11/blackbox/blackbox-menu, hence changes only show up if they were performed in the system-wide manor.

Look in ~/.blackboxrc, and you should find a line like this (if not, add it):
```
session.menuFile:       /etc/X11/blackbox/blackbox-menu
```

Change it to (or add):
```
session.menuFile:       ~/.blackbox/blackbox-menu
```

update-menus (as normal user)

reconfigure blackbox

Enjoy.

---

