---
title: "10.04 LTS AMD ATI Radeon boots to wallpaper only?"
date: 2011-06-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JohnVLang on 2011-06-15
Hi, 

Been using Ubuntu for a while and have come through from 6.10 or so through to 10.04 LTS... managed to get through most issues but this one has me stumped! Just did a recent update and now when the system boots i get to the 'desk top' but only shows wallpaper, no menus at all... can't Ctrl+F1 to Terminal but can esc GRUB and go through recovery mode, have tried repair packages and boot in failsafe graohics mode but still no go...

Have read through a number of posts but nothing seems to answer the issue.

Any thoughts, assistance greatly appreciated!

Thanks,
John

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-06-15
i have a few ideas, but will need more informaiton. follow this guide and post some specs: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475)
 
also did you do upgrades all this time or is this a fresh install of 10.04?
And does the liveCD of 10.04 work on your computer?

---

### Post by JohnVLang on 2011-06-15
Hi mastablasta,

From recollection - i'm pretty sure i've done updates/upgrades on this system from about 8.04? I think i prbably id an LTS upgrade from 8 to 9, then stepped through 9 to 10.04 - i'm holding off until the next LTS release with this box (generic no-name laptop).

01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility U1
wireless = none
00:00.0 Host bridge: ATI Technologies Inc AGP Bridge [IGP 320M] (rev 13)
00:01.0 PCI bridge: ATI Technologies Inc PCI Bridge [IGP 320M] (rev 01)
01:05.0 VGA compatible controller: ATI Technologies Inc Radeon Mobility U1

I'm running this on the box with the issues, then typing in on a different sys so let me know specifics of the info you require, there's a lot on some screens - like "lspci" and "sudo lshw"

Thanks,
John

---

### Post by JohnVLang on 2011-06-15
Ops, sorry - yes Live CD for 10.04 LTS boots fine...

Given that i can boot from Live CD, do you want the full specs from:

> follow this guide and post some specs: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1422475)

Thanks,
John

---

### Post by WallyJ2K on 2011-08-16
I am having issues with this exact video card as well, on an old HP notebook.

I am able to work using 11.04 in Classic Mode, but cannot get the external VGA to show correctly on my LG flatscreen TV.

Ideas?

Thanks,

WalllyJ

---

