---
title: "12.04 Upgrade fail Broken Pipe"
date: 2012-07-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrReaper on 2012-07-18
After upgrading to 12.04 the system now boots to an error message

"could not write bytes: broken pipe" then stops at 
Checking Battery State... OK

I have tried booting an earlier version of Ubuntu and it won't let me log in.

I have also tried Ctrl + Alt + F1 and it refuses my username.

How can I get my pictures and bookmarks out before I reinstall?

---

### Post by stepking2 on 2012-07-18
Try plugging out the harddrive and plug into a desktop computer.

---

### Post by Cheesehead on 2012-07-18
> **DrReaper said:**
> How can I get my pictures and bookmarks out before I reinstall?

Why reinstall?
If you provide more detail about where in the boot process this occurs, and how it's different in the other kernel, it may be simpler to *fix* the problem.

---

### Post by DrReaper on 2012-07-18
Lets see the system is a desktop. I don't know how moving the hard drive would help.

What do you want to know about the ubuntu? It's version 12.04 and it doesn't open anymore. 

I even managed to make things worse. I some how messed up the Grub loading the different partitions. 

I was able to get a Ubuntu live CD going however when i try to backup folders it says i have no access rights.

I was thinking of reinstalling because nobody has been able to help me with the ubuntu 12.04 not loading. How do i get a more detailed enumeration of the boot?

---

### Post by DrReaper on 2012-07-18
I fixed the grub problem! Super Grub 2 boot CD helped get into Windows so I could run fixboot. I am dual booting. 


I have been searching for answers and I have an Nvidia graphics card in this computer.

Is it possible to update the Nvidia driver on the system using a Ubuntu live CD? I cannot boot the ubuntu 12.04 on the system right now. It's still hanging on checking battery... OK

---

