---
title: "10.10 icedtea6-plugin + jQuery dialogs : crash firefox / JavaEmbeddedFrame"
date: 2011-03-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tolas on 2011-03-04
Ok, after a miserable half day with sun-java6-plugin ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1699651](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1699651)), i decided to give icedtea6-plugin (6b20-1.9.7-0ubuntu1) a try.

The particular java applet that i need to work has the following results:

* when run as the simplest HTML example of the java applet, with only markup to start the applet, it works every time without fail.

However, i need it to work inside my CMS, the code for which works fine under windows 7, and in general too under ubuntu. It's just this java applet that's giving me problems.

(1) when run inside my CMS, it will on first startup display the applet in a seperate window (with title: JavaEmbeddedFrame), which it's not supposed to do. This seperate window can be closed.

(2) when run inside my CMS for the second time or thereafter, it will either display this JavaEmbeddedFrame window again, but this time with no applet, just a gray field. This seperate window can often but not always not be closed, even after firefox has been shut down.
Or it will crash firefox entirely.

* when run inside my CMS but *outside* any of my specialized jQuery dialogs, it will display fine every time.

* but when run inside one of these specialized jQuery dialogs (i'm using jquery-ui-1.8.9), it will produce results as in (1) and (2).

Needless to say I'd like this java applet to work under ubuntu in one of my specialized dialogs, it's used to put media in my CMS, and you can guess how far i'll get without it on a fresh db.

It'll be a too-long explanation of how these specialized dialogs come in existence (theres a lot of code related to it), but I'm going to try to isolate the problem today. I'll give it half a day, if i can't get it to work i'm switching back to windows because i don't want to lose too much time on this.

---

