---
title: "Video problems"
date: 2008-07-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by penncon on 2008-07-20
I installed Hardy on my Sony Vaio a few months ago.  The video card is some kind of generic Intel card (I'm not sure where to find exactly what it is) but the install went fine and my video works acceptably.  I had to do some tweaking to get the 3d effects working, and eventually I got them working with one minor problem.  When I start my computer I have to boot into recovery mood, select to try to fix x server, then resume normal booting or else my screen will be all messed up.  This isn't a huge deal and I don't reboot that often so I chose to live with it.

Now, however, I'm trying to get Command & Conquer 3 to run, and I think that the problems I'm having are linked to my video driver.  So I look at my xorg.conf and get this:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection

There's nothing in there for video, just "Configured Video Device"??  I'm sure this can't be right.  So, here are my questions:

1. Does anyone know what I would use to correctly configure my video at this point?

2. I would probably at this point rather start with a clean install, but I have GBs of music and stuff that I don't feel like losing or taking four hours to back up.  Is there a way to install Ubuntu over what I have without losing data?

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by pauper on 2008-07-20
1) Find out about your card here:

```
lspci
```

Generate new xorg.conf

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Note: if your card is intel then, while performing the aforementioned command,
you should select "intel" driver (there are probably few intel-* drivers).

2) There is no need to do any reinstall. In fact remember to generate new
xorg.conf any time right after you do reinstall, full upgrade (next ubuntu release)
with right driver selected.

---

### Post by penncon on 2008-07-20
I tried the command above, but it never asked me about my video card, just my keyboard...?  My xorg.conf looks no different.

---

### Post by pauper on 2008-07-21
See my attachment. Do you get a similar prompt?

---

