---
title: "24.04 desktop session terminates when monitor is powered off or disconnected"
date: 2024-06-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by m1k3b0 on 2024-06-15
Just installed 24.04 Desktop today and found that disconnecting, powering off, or switching the monitor to another input causes my session to terminate. Since I'm running a few VMs in VirtualBox and share the monitor with another machine this is unusable.

Is this a bug in 24.04? I've run 22.04 for over a year and never had an issue with this. Is there any workaround? If not, I'll have to back-out and re-install 22.04.

Any pointers would be appreciated... thanks!

---

### Post by m1k3b0 on 2024-06-15
I've seen others post about this and I believe a bug has already been filed. Unfortunately, my VMs are down and can't wait for a fix, so it looks like it's a re-install of 22.04 for me. I didn't think such a serious bug would be overlooked thru all the Betas, etc. but maybe most testing is done on VMs. I'll be much more cautious about upgrades on a physical machine in the future.

BTW, I did check for the suggested setting, but evidently there is no "Automatic Logout" in the Settings > Power menu. I had already selected Screen Blank "Never" and Automatic Suspend "Off". Maybe I'm missing something...

Thanks!

---

### Post by psorcerer on 2024-07-28
@m1k3b0 it's clear that @niko090 doesn't have a clue what they are talking about...
Anyway the workaround is to Super-L (lock session) before disconnecting monitor. It does work 100% of the time.
I'm still in awe how come that bug was overlooked.

---

