---
title: "12.04 and boot options."
date: 2012-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-05-16
Been trying to boot 12.04 from CD on an old computer. It seems to start ok, but then hits a kernel panic and freezes before the desktop loads. So, I thought to try something like noapic nolapic and acpi=off, but how? Instead of showing the menu with a boot line, there is now a white block in the bottom left corner. I've managed to get to the **boot:** prompt, and the help page (F1) says I should type options there and hit Enter.
For example
boot: install noapic nolapic

Yet, no matter what I type, it says: 'no image found'. If I just hit Enter, it starts booting, and then panics, as mentioned above.

I've been trying to hold shift, Esc, and other keys, but nothing comes up that would accept boot options.

The computer has 512MB of RAM and integrated 82845 Intel graphics.

Update:
Took out the HDD, and was able to install 12.04 on another old computer, then put the HDD back. Luckily, the Grub menu would show at boot, and the desktop loaded OK after adding the **i912.modeset=1** option. Wouldn't boot otherwise.

Still haven't found any way to install 12.04 directly on that machine. Might need to test the Alt or minimal CD.

---

### Post by JRV on 2012-05-16
I had this problem with an old Intel Atom Mini-ITX board with Intel 945 graphics.  A BIOS upgrade fixed it.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2012-05-16
...and what happened after the BIOS upgrade? Did you get the place to type boot options?

---

### Post by JRV on 2012-05-17
It was a long time ago, and I don't remember wheni it  kernel paniced. But after the BIOS upgrade everything worked.

---

