---
title: "Boot Issues after Applying Update"
date: 2014-08-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dan_Chen on 2014-08-06
Hi,

First of all forgive me if I start  talking about linux in an incomprehensible way, I just started reading  about it a few days ago, so my knowledge is still at a novice level.

A few days ago I started attempting an installation of  multiple distros of linux on top of my already existent windows XP  machine. The machine is a netbook (SAMSUNG NC10).

I used  gpart and created a bunch of different ext4 partitions under an extended  partition. I first installed Ubuntu 14.04 on the first ext4 partition  and it looked like it was working fine. The system successfully booted  up and said there was some updates available. So I applied the updates,  and soon after when I restarted my system, it would go into GRUB and I  could choose the OS I want to boot. Choosing Ubuntu though, it no longer  seems to finish booting. It just sits idle on a black screen.

I did some research and found a tool called boot repair,  but unfortunately after selecting recommended repair, it did not fix the  issue.

Here is the log that was generated by boot repair: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/7970831/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/7970831/)

If anyone could provide any insight into a fix for this matter, it would be appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by stalkingwolf on 2014-08-06
the first thing i would do is 
make sure it is plugged in not running wireless.
at the grub menu select the recovery mode
when the recovery menu pops up select fix broken packages.

as i recall there is also a question box that pops up with a yes no response required. i answer yes the default.

hope that helps

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2014-08-06
> **Dan_Chen said:**
> If anyone could provide any insight into a fix for this matter, it would be appreciated. Thanks!Welcome to the wonderful world of Linux!

The black screen after doing updates is, more often than not, due to an update of the video driver turning out not to be compatible with your hardware. If that's what has happened to you, the Boot Repair disk won't help (as you've discovered).

Do the other distributions still work? The odds are that they will, until they too roll out an incompatible update and develop the same symptom.

I see from your Boot Repair log that your system is a Compaq; I have two boxes here that came from Compaq/HP. One came from Compaq, the other from HP. The Compaq's video chip is from Nvidia while the HP uses an AMD device. Both manfacturers provide proprietary drivers, and some of the most recent such drivers have turned out to be incompatible with older chips.

You may be able to get back into action by selecting an older kernel version on the Grub menu; updates do not normally erase the older versions so they will be available to let you roll back if an update makes things go wrong. Look under the heading "Previous Linux versions" for such older ones. If that brings back your screen, we can then offer additional ideas to more permanently fix the problem.

---

### Post by grahammechanical on 2014-08-06
On Ubuntu 14.04 we find previous Linux kernels in the Advanced Options for Ubuntu sub-menu. That is also the place where we find Recovery mode. As it is a new install you only have two kernels. Linux 3.13.0-24, which I guess is the original kernel and Linux 3.13.0-32 which I guess is the kernel that was installed by that update. You also have Intel integrated graphics.

All boot repair did was to re-install Grub. You can try loading into Linux 3.13.0-24 or selecting recovery mode. Or both. At the recovery menu select Resume. That may load to a desktop using an open source video driver. Once at the desktop you can go to System Settings>Software and Updates>Additional drivers tab and experiment with different video drivers. You need to be connected to the Internet and to allow the utility time to find the drivers.

Regards.

---

### Post by Dan_Chen on 2014-08-06
First of all, thank you all for the thorough responses. I appreciate the  detailed steps you all have written out to help me along with the  problems I'm experiencing. I was writing this post as I was debugging,  and the end result is that Ubuntu now boots correctly with both  versions. I thought it a waste if I deleted all my debugging information  so I've posted this information in quotes just in case it's of use to  anyone.

> I first attempted selecting the **recovery mode** for **Linux 3.13.0-32-generic**,  and after loading some files in a terminal-like screen and then  flickering a few times, it stalled on a black screen. It never made it  to the recovery menu.

I then attempted loading from **Linux 3.13.0.-24**, the **normal boot**.  I saw a Ubuntu load screen for a few seconds before it also stopped on a  black screen. This black screen is a little different from the previous  one for the Linux 3.13.0-32-generic (recovery mode) in that it has an  underscore at the top right corner that's flashing. After waiting for  about 5 minutes, it didn't boot, so I restarted the system again.

I then tried loading from **Linux 3.13.0.-24 (recovery mode)**. This time it did at least properly load the recovery menu. I first tried the **Resume normal boot**  option, but after seeing the screen flicker a few times, it stalled  again on a blank black screen, with residuals of flickering (thin  color-way) at the top of the screen. There were also some error messages  that displayed during the flickering, but it's too quick for me to see  what it says.

I then tried loading from **Linux 3.13.0.-24 (recovery mode) **again. This time I selected the **Repair broken packages**  option. The system ran through the entire repair successfully to my  knowledge. There was a few lines where it says it failed to find some  file, but hopefully these are normal. After finishing, it goes back to  the recovery menu, where I selected the **Resume normal boot** option. This time around, it flickers a few times, but it successfully boots into the OS, where upon loading, it gives me a **System program problem detected** popup. When I hit the **Report problem...** button. I get a new error popup which says, **Sorry, Ubuntu 14.04 has experienced an internal error.**  I think I got 6-8 of these internal error popups, before they finally  stopped. Also, while reporting the problem, I get another abnormal popup  which says **It seems you have modified the contents of "/etc/gdm/custom.conf". Would you like to add the contents of it to your bug report?**  After I finally made my through all the errors, I found the software  update program asking me for a reboot. I'm not sure if this has to do  with me using the **Resume Broken Packages** option on the  recovery menu or if it's residuals from Ubuntu not being able to boot  after applying the update the first time around.

While I was in there, I took a look at the Software and Updates > Additional drives tab as you suggested **grahammechanical**, but it doesn't seem like it found any, as it says **No additional drives available**. 

As I stated at the beginning of this post, it now boots properly, so hopefully everything will run smoothly in the foreseeable future. Again thank you all for helping me through this problem.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-08-07
Boot-Repair says you have the Intel video chip.
How much RAM?

My older Laptop with 1.5GB of RAM and Intel video will not run full Ubuntu with Unity. I have to add fallback/flashback in 2D mode. 
Others may suggest Xubuntu or Lubuntu as they also are lighter weight gui and would run much better.

Some systems may want to install with LVM and separate /boot. Better to choose just to install to your existing partition. Also do not attempt to share /boot or /home. You can share swap as long as you do not hibernate or else one will overwrite the other in swap.
A shared data partition may be better but some systems may have different UIDs.

 Shared Data with Different operating systems, different uid and gid issues - Morbius1
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1675381](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1675381)

---

### Post by Dan_Chen on 2014-08-07
Hey oldfred, first of all, thanks for taking the time to give me some pointers for what I'm trying to accomplish. I'm new to linux, so any help is appreciated. Now onto what you wrote.

> How much RAM?

The netbook I am running on only has 1 GB of ram. I made my swap partition 2 GB in size.

> My older Laptop with 1.5GB of RAM and Intel video will not run full  Ubuntu with Unity. I have to add fallback/flashback in 2D mode. 
Others may suggest Xubuntu or Lubuntu as they also are lighter weight gui and would run much better.

Is Ubuntu with Unity activated by default? Can it be deactivated to run in a lighter-mode? I am actually only installing Ubuntu on this machine for educational purposes only. I'm taking a Linux class which uses Ubuntu as one of the distros it works with. It sounds like if I have no need for Unity in the class, I could just configure it for 2D mode?

> Some systems may want to install with LVM and separate /boot. Better to  choose just to install to your existing partition. Also do not attempt  to share /boot or /home. You can share swap as long as you do not  hibernate or else one will overwrite the other in swap.
A shared data partition may be better but some systems may have different UIDs.

While I was doing my research about how to setup partitions for linux, it sounded like there is no need for a separate /boot partition so I didn't end up creating one. I'm planning to start installing the other distros of linux soon, but from what I've read, it sounded like I should point boot loader installation to whatever partition I'm using for my / for each specific distro. And then just using the Ubuntu installed GRUB to refresh/update my boot options. Does that like one of the easier ways to go about it?

My research agreed with what you stated about sharing /home, that it has the possibility of introducing problems even if all the distros use the same file system, so I will be using separate /home partitions for each linux distro.

I did end up sharing the the /swap partition though as I don't plan on hibernating or actively running multiple OS's at the same time, and from what I read it shouldn't cause any problems.

So my plan is for my partitions to look like the following:
sda1 - primary / NTFS / Windows Backup
sda2 - primary / NTFS / Windows XP
sda3 - extended partition

Under sda3 I have the following:
sda5 - logical / ext4 / ubuntu
sda10 - logical / ext4 / ubuntu-home
sda6 - logical / ext4 / centos
sda11 - logical / ext4 / centos-home
sda7 - logical / ext4 / opensuse
sda12 - logical / ext4 / opensuse-home
sda8 - logical / ext3 / Linux to Windows Data Share
sda9 - logical / linux-swap / swap

Again, I'm new to this, so any advice would be appreciated. Thanks!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2014-08-07
Plan sounds reasonable.

But with only 1GB of RAM many of the systems using the heavier gui, full Gnome or full KDE enviroments may not run or run well. If you do not install Unity in Ubuntu you only have command line like a server. For a new user that can be a bit of work. 

One of the issues of Linux is all the different desktops or gui that you can have. And most distributions offer more than one. And because of all the different gui, we often need to use terminal commands as those are almost always the same, but every gui would be different.

If you can get Unity to start or just get to terminal you can install gnome-panel from terminal. Then relog in or reboot and choose that at sign in using logo/icon/gear in upper right corner. You can install all the desktops but it then gets confusing.

       sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
On login screen click on logo/cog-wheel/star and choose 
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/classicgnome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/classicgnome)
12.04 LTS / Precise Classic (No effects) Tweaks and tricks kansasnoob & cortman
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseGnomeClassicTweaks](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PreciseGnomeClassicTweaks)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1966370) 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2090021](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2090021)
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/gnome-classic-in-ubuntu-12-04-its-like-nothing-ever-changed](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/gnome-classic-in-ubuntu-12-04-its-like-nothing-ever-changed)

    
 Screen shots comparing flavors
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/65083/what-different-desktop-environments-and-shells-are-available](http://askubuntu.com/questions/65083/what-different-desktop-environments-and-shells-are-available)

 Flashback/fallback in 14.04 Kansasnoob
Installing the package 'gnome-session-flashback' does exactly the same thing as installing the package 'gnome-panel'.
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2220264)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2090021&p=12994477#post12994477](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2090021&p=12994477#post12994477)

 Comparison of desktop environments - diffences in software
[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Desktop_Environment](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Desktop_Environment)
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_X_Window_System_desktop_environments](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_X_Window_System_desktop_environments)
All Desktops in one:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/64241/how-do-i-switch-to-xubuntu](http://askubuntu.com/questions/64241/how-do-i-switch-to-xubuntu)
Both Unity and standard Gnome classic use Compiz as a WM, whereas Unity-2D and Gnome classic (no effects) use Metacity. 
Gnome shell and Cinnamon (which is a gnome-shell extension) use Mutter as a WM.

---

