---
title: "10.x performance issues - OS barely usable"
date: 2010-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lituano on 2010-09-09
First of all, my current setup:
* Dell Inspiron 1521 Laptop
* AMD Turion 64 X2 Dual-core (each core rated @ 1.6GHz)
*ATI  Radeon Express x1250 (integrated; ATI/AMD dropped support for this card  some time ago, thus there are no proprietary drivers available for  current X server version)
* LG L206WTQ LCD Widescreen monitor connected via VGA, native res: 1680x1050
Ubuntu 10.10

My adventure started with Ubuntu 10.04. So, issues:
1) External monitor completely out of sync.
2)  3-5 minutes from boot (or after first serious system load) CPU load  rises astronomically and system becomes extremely slow. (Load doesn't  come from one specific process, instead CPU load of every process, that  was working, jumps up dramatically)

Then I thought, let's see if  the problem is distribution-related and burned Fedora 13 on to a  bootable CD. And.. absolutely the same happens on Fedora too (although  monitor works).

Then I remembered how Windows handles CPU: when  it gets pretty hot, throttles down the CPU for 2-5 seconds to cool it  down. Also, CPU has additional scaling ability (AMD PowerNow!: 800Mhz or  1600Mhz) to save energy. So I thought CPU scaling is malfunctioning on  linux for some reason. So...

Back to Ubuntu:
"cat  /proc/cpuinfo | grep MHz" revealed, that each core is working on 1600MHz  when system works normally (on boot and sometimes in between those  3-10min CPU spikes) and at just 800MHz, when it is slow as hell, so my  actions:

1) Updated to Ubuntu 10.10
2) Disabled CPU scaling on BIOS side

Results:
1) External LCD started working perfectly.
2) CPU clock reading (cat  /proc/cpuinfo | grep MHz) is now always at 1597.xx, same for both CPU cores
3) Still extremely high loads, but now a bit more tolerable

Now again back to Fedora:
Works..  flawlessly. Even though it runs on Live CD and "cat /proc/cpuinfo |  grep MHz" prints 800Mhz (have no idea why), everything works super fast  (even with Compiz effects set to max), with performance comparable to  Windows (may be even better, didn't test thoroughly).

I would  also like to mention, that I have installed xsensors on Ubuntu, which, I  believe, is measuring anything, but CPU temperature.

About throttling down, when CPU is frying..

How BIOS (yes, BIOS for sure, not Windows) control temperature (temp readings from Windows (utility: I8kfan)):
60C - fan speeds up;
93C - CPU throttles down for 2-3 seconds. After that temperature drops to 70-80C;
94-95C - fan switches to top-speed, extra noisy;
>95C - PC turns off immediately.

xsensors  on Ubuntu.. either core temperature is never displayed as something  more than 60C, although fan does switch to top-speed after some time at  very high load and PC does turn off, if heat isn't effectively  dissipated (e.g. vent holes blocked).

Which makes me into thinking.. something's wrong with Ubuntu and/or pre-installed drivers for my laptop.

Any ideas?
Thanks in advance :)

P.S.: If this thread belongs to Dell section.. Move it there then, my bad, sorry :P

---

### Post by lituano on 2010-09-17
Bump :-|

---

### Post by lituano on 2010-09-17
Solved. All the problems were caused due to overheating because of dust. Disassembled the laptop, cleaned everything up and voila - no more overheating or CPU throttling problems :)

Thread may be closed now.

---

