---
title: "10.04 64-bit frequent system Lockups"
date: 2010-06-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Richard Carlson on 2010-06-20
Was wondering if I'm the only one plagued by this problem. I have frequent lockups on 10.04 64-bit Ubuntu 'Gnome' on my system. It happens often and I have to reboot the system quite a bit. Drives me crazy. I'm using all of the newest updated software (i.e. also latest kernel). My system has a 4-core AMD 8-gig ram. I've gone into 'Bios' to insure everything there is 'correct'. Can't figure it out. Any idea's or suggestions? I also run a Nvidia 200 geforce card with Ubuntu's proprietary Nvidia driver and I also run Compiz-fusion and it is functioning properly. Other than the lockups it runs very well and wouldn't trade it for anything else.

Any suggestions would be appreciated. . .

Rich

---

### Post by kokonobs on 2010-06-20
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1478787)

There are many threads featuring random freezes/hang ups. Use the search function on the top right corner of the forum pages diligently and you'll find that you are not alone.

Would help if you could describe the lock ups and a bit more detail. ie - complete lock up, no response from mouse/keyboard, whether rebooting using Alt+PrntScr+ RSEIUB is able to reboot the system.. anything that would help someone understand exactly what you are facing. There are several people having lockups of different forms.

---

### Post by MooPi on 2010-06-20
Unexplained freezes always make me check for memory module problems. Boot the live CD or a memtest CD and check you ram.

---

### Post by dream_coder on 2010-08-26
I have very similar problems using Nvidia GT 210 and prorietary drivers from ubuntu nvidia ppa and also becaus ei bought the car to use vdpau in a media pc I am stuck of either putting up with lock ups all the time sometimes 3 or times during a movie or to not use vdpau and not be able to decode 1080's, and the purchase of the card would have been pointless lol.

until new driver update becomes available I am fairly sure the problem will continue to persist, having said that my geforce 9600 gt works a treat in my main pc no lock ups etc but it is to big to be a media pc :)

---

