---
title: "9.04, Help in Installing Compiz"
date: 2009-09-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ramanabv on 2009-09-21
Hi
I tried installing Compiz on 9.04. I haven't used compiz in my earlier 8.04/8.16 version. HP Pavilion Notebook with NVidia GeoForce with AMD Processor with 32 bit Linux
Drivers for Nvidia have been installed. I removed and reinstalled Compiz as shown in some posts. I ahve gone thru all the posts etc but still cant get it to work.

When I enable compiz I get some disturbed screens. What should I look for.

Any help appreciated

Ramana

---

### Post by juancarlospaco on 2009-09-21
Compiz is already installed with 9.04, 
you dont need to do nothing, the program comes already installed.

:)

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-21
You should look for an appropriate videodriver. What videocard do you have exactly? If you're unsure, open a terminal and post the output of:

```
lspci
```

---

### Post by ramanabv on 2009-09-21
Hi
I have nVidia Geoforce 6150 Video.
Processor is Athlon64/Opteron

Yes. Compiz comes installed. Since I couldn't get it to work I remoed and installed it again
I also tried Envy and reinstalled the nVidia drivers.
I can also see a option for nVidia X server setting under system. Ican see some GLX tabs in there

Thanks
Ramana

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-21
assuming the drivers work correctly, you can enable desktop effects in system > preference > appearance > visual effects.

If you want more than that, like the cube and all fancy effects, then install "compizconfig-settings-manager".

---

### Post by ramanabv on 2009-09-21
> **P4man said:**
> assuming the drivers work correctly, you can enable desktop effects in system > preference > appearance > visual effects.

If you want more than that, like the cube and all fancy effects, then install "compizconfig-settings-manager".

I have done that. I have run compiz check. It says OK. When I run compwiz some disturbance take place and I get my screen back. I ahve enables Cube etc. I have enabled custom appearance as explained in some places. How do I know compiz is working and how do I get the cube up. This is what I get 

ramana@ramana-laptop:~$ compiz --restart
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
xset q doesn't reveal the location of the log file. Using fallback /var/log/Xorg.0.log 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: present. 
Checking for non power of two support: present. 
Checking for Composite extension: present. 
Checking screen 1Comparing resolution (1280x800) to maximum 3D texture size (4096): Passed.
Checking for Software Rasterizer: Not present. 
Checking for nVidia: present. 
Checking for FBConfig: present. 
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
/usr/bin/compiz.real (core) - Warn: Unknown option '--restart'

/usr/bin/compiz.real (video) - Warn: No 8 bit GLX pixmap format, disabling YV12 image format

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-09-21
Hello,

when you right click in your Desktop, choose Change Desktop background and go where the visual effects are, can you enable the option normal or extra without having problems? If you cannot do so, then I think that you should have to configure your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file which is responsible for the graphics you get on the screen. I think that if you are able to fix that, you will be able to make compiz work. 

edit: also looking on your post check this out,
Checking for Xgl: not present...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=611877](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=611877)

Regards!

---

### Post by ramanabv on 2009-09-21
> **Claus7 said:**
> Hello,

when you right click in your Desktop, choose Change Desktop background and go where the visual effects are, can you enable the option normal or extra without having problems? If you cannot do so, then I think that you should have to configure your /etc/X11/xorg.conf file which is responsible for the graphics you get on the screen. I think that if you are able to fix that, you will be able to make compiz work. 

edit: also looking on your post check this out,
Checking for Xgl: not present...
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=611877](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=611877)

Regards!

Thanks. I can enable normal and extra without an issue. I can see some 3D effect when I switch between work spaces by ctl,all,>. But I cant seem to get teh cube. So it looks like the compiz is working and may be I don't know how to use it. The compiz configuration seems to be getting back to defaults every time. I keep setting cube and it seems to be getting back to wall. How do i get teh cube that every one seems to be talking about??

Thank you very much
Ramana

---

### Post by ramanabv on 2009-09-21
Hi
I can see some more things. ctl,alt , down lays all the windows flat. ctl,alt,> rotates the windows. So everything seems to be working ( not my brain though). I cant get wondows in to a nice cube and play around. ( except going back to defaults )

Also how do I automatically enable on start up?
regards
Ramaan

---

### Post by Claus7 on 2009-09-21
Hello,

so we are sure now that compiz is enabled. In order to make your cube work you have to specify its dimensions from the cube menu. 

If you open the compiz manager, from there you will be able to select cube. While selecting cube, go to its options and choose the horizontal (4) and vertical virtual size(1). The desktop should be set at (1).

If you try these, I think that you should be able to play with cube.

edit: Doing a fresh installation of karmic I went to System->Preferences->ComizConfig Setting Manager and then to:
General
General Options -> Desktop Size
and configured the size of the cube as above

Regards!

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-21
you have to enable cube **and** the rotate cube plugin. Then check your key bindings, by default I think its control+alt+mouse button 1 to rotate freely.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2009-09-21
[quote=ramanabv;7983808] 
ramana@ramana-laptop:~$ compiz --restart

 The correct command is **compiz --replace**.

 Once that's running you can use compizconfig-settings-manager to disable the desktop wall and enable the cube.

---

