---
title: "11.04 needs more love"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Wertigon on 2011-05-03
Hi!

First off, want to say that there is no problem at all with Unity as such, I think it makes a great effort to get out of my way, and it's definitely a step forward as far as interfaces go. Once you've relearned where everything is it's much cleaner and easier to navigate than Gnome2.

However, the latest release of Ubuntu doesn't work for me or my laptop. At all. :( My laptop is a HP Probook 5310m.

List of problems:

1. Closing the laptop lid makes the graphical interface freeze. I can solve this by writing "sudo service gdm restart" but then all my programs disappear.
2. Suspending makes me unable to find my 3G modem once I wake it up again.
3. Suspending makes me unable to use my ethernet card
4. Unplugging the power source makes unity crash sometimes. Happened twice when I also unplugged the NIC.

These four issues makes me unable to use 11.04 at all. Help?

---

### Post by maizuddin35 on 2011-05-03
the same thing happen to me when I want to suspend or sleep the computer. anyone?

---

### Post by cespinal on 2011-05-03
There have been similar reports. I do not know if bugs have been filed for this. 

I am also experiencing crashes, which appear randomly, leaving the screen with bars an disorted graphics. I have seen a little bit more stability in the last hours... but I just had a crash 10 minutes ago.

---

### Post by Wertigon on 2011-05-06
Ok, some more information:

I'm running the 64-bit version and the crash appears when I unplug the NIC, not the power cord.

---

