---
title: "Screen resolution too low"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mikewbma on 2012-05-03
The resolution for  my ubuntu pc is too low.
From the display setting is only shows 640x480 and there is no other options
The actually resolution my screen can support is 1280x1024 60Hz

when i log on to ubuntu after the login screen it pop up a window


and the xrandr shows
xrandr: Failed to get size of gamma for output default
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 640 x 480, maximum 640 x 480
default connected 640x480+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   640x480        50.0* 
   320x240        51.0  

and the xorg.conf show this

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 295.40  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-04.nvidia.com)  Thu Apr  5 22:33:07 PDT 2012

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


I have tried method from other thread but non work and I am on a tight schedule.
Please help me:frown::frown:

---

### Post by flipper T on 2012-05-03
hard to know where to start as we have no idea what ¨other thread¨ you are referring to & therefore no idea what you have already tried & failed...

supply more info.

---

### Post by mikewbma on 2012-05-03
Everything failed. All the changes from the other thread go reset once i reboot.

---

### Post by flipper T on 2012-05-03
what other thread ?

---

### Post by mikewbma on 2012-05-03
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594308](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1594308)

I try to implementedd  but some of the step result doesn't match,

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-05-03
Could you post the content of this file?
```
/var/log/Xorg.0.log
```
Please paste it here: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/]("http://paste.ubuntu.com/"), and then post back the link here.

Regards.

---

### Post by mikewbma on 2012-05-05
Here is some interesting results after a reboot the resolution seems to fixed it self. Until the next day I start the computer and it went back to that low resolution then I restarted and it went back to the resoution i wanted.

Strange don't you think. I hope this doesn't keep repeating because then I have to keep restarting the computer.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2012-05-05
Perhaps you could give some hints that people might use to help you? What version of Ubuntu? What video adapter? Have you installed a proprietary driver?

---

### Post by mikewbma on 2012-05-08
I am Using Ubuntu 12.04

the Proprietary driver is NVIDIA aclerated graphics driver

Ubuntu installed it automatically for me.

The same phenomenon still happens. I sometime get correct resolution but sometime don't. 
I have keep rebooting or go into safe mode and go back to normal mode.

---

