---
title: "12.04 mount command no longer works"
date: 2012-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Xifanie on 2012-11-16
Hi,

For a few weeks now, the mount command stopped working on me... I set auto-mount at startup for
/dev/sda3 > /media/Data
/dev/sda5 > /media/Install

and one day, they decided to stop mounting, giving me an error just saying: Unable to mount; freezing the startup process until I pressed a key. I also can't manually mount anything... I have this CD Image I want to mount, and while I used to be able to with:
mount -o loop /media/sda3/ISO/CD.BIN /media/Img2

now it returns "mount: you must specify the filesystem type"
But if I specify "-t" with anything, it doesn't help either:

```
root@xifanie-cpu:/home/xifanie# mount -o loop '/media/sda3/ISO/CD.BIN' /media/Img2 -t auto
mount: you must specify the filesystem type
root@xifanie-cpu:/home/xifanie# mount -o loop '/media/sda3/ISO/CD.BIN' /media/Img2 -t ntfs
NTFS signature is missing.
Failed to mount '/dev/loop0': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/loop0' doesn't seem to have a valid NTFS.
Maybe the wrong device is used? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/sda, not /dev/sda1)? Or the other way around?
root@xifanie-cpu:/home/xifanie# mount -o loop '/media/sda3/ISO/CD.BIN' /media/Img2 -t ext4
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/loop0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
```

Mount is the newest version. 
So I'm rather clueless... all the /dev/sda partitions mount properly, so does my DVD and anything USB.
Note: I also have Windows XP on this system and it started happening one time after I switched.

---

### Post by rai4shu2 on 2012-11-16
A CD, huh? If you want to mount that you should probably try converting using bchunk, first.

---

### Post by Xifanie on 2012-11-16
But why should I need to? I've mounted plenty of CD/DVDs before, and I can't mount my partitions, if I'm using the right words...
The problem is that it used to work, but now it doesn't.

---

### Post by Xifanie on 2012-11-18
Also, I tried converting with bchunk to simply end with the exact same errors as stated in my first post.

---

### Post by pkadeel on 2012-11-18
.bin file can not be mounted. you have to convert it to .iso
If you were able to convert .bin file to .iso then you can use the iso9660 type for mounting
```
sudo mount -t iso9660 -o loop,ro /iso/path /mount/path
```

---

### Post by Xifanie on 2012-11-18
@pkadeel:
```
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/loop0,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so
```

I'm not sure why I even tried... like I said, I mounted numerous CD images before and never encountered an issue. The problem aren't my CD images, something is bugging the actual mounting procedure and I have no idea what it is... I read about the possibility of errors on my HD, but I ran chkdsk with fixing as suggested and that didn't help at all.

Remember this isn't just about CDs, I can't mount my /dev/sda? to anything either.

---

### Post by rai4shu2 on 2012-11-18
> **Xifanie said:**
> So I'm rather clueless... all the /dev/sda partitions mount properly, so does my DVD and anything USB.

> Remember this isn't just about CDs, I can't mount my /dev/sda? to anything either.

You're having some trouble getting your story straight. Which one is it? Does it work or doesn't it? If you really have trouble mounting /dev/sda3, then how are you attempting to mount a bin file from there? :confused:

---

### Post by Xifanie on 2012-11-19
Sorry, I don't know the exact terms :/

I can use anything /dev/sda, so I'll have folders like /media/sda3 & /media/sd5, but I used to mount them as /media/Install & /media/Data as that's what I labeled my partitions before switching to XUbuntu. I set up an auto-mount on startup for this, and when it decided to stop working and just giving me errors instead, I lost the ability to manually mount CD/DVD images too. Both worked perfectly fine and one day bam, no longer works.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-11-19
I am now totally bamboozled about what works and what doesn't, just like **rai4shu2.**

Can you show us the output in terminal, one by one, of ```
sudo fdisk -l
sudo blkid -c /dev/null
cat /etc/fstab
``` which may at least help us figure out what your partitions are and perhaps why the automounting at boot does not work.  I am just wondering if fstab is now pointing to non-existent partitions, though that will probably not help the CD problem you seem to have though that is probably the .bin problem noted by **pkadeel.**

---

