---
title: "~/.bashrc"
date: 2010-07-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-07-28
hi

can someone tell how to edit or add codes to ~/.bashrc ?? and also what is this bashrc if anyone could explain... i have tried editing this bashrc without success... how to save the changes in bashrc...

regards

ubun2warrior

---

### Post by malspa on 2010-07-28
What happens when you try to edit it?  I just open up gedit or another text editor, edit it, and save the changes.  What changes do you want to make to it?

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-07-28
**Hi actually i came across the following post: so i wanted to try it out. Sometime back i was trying to install jdk 6 manually then i tried editing ~/.bashrc without success.... so i don't remember about that now...  I wanted to try the codes below, so please help...**

 Re: How to untar.gz and bz2 files easily in terminal
I use a function.

Add this to ~/.bashrc

Code:

# Extract files from any archive
# Usage: ex <archive_name>

function ex ()
{
  if [ -f "$1" ] ; then
    case "$1" in
      *.tar)                tar xvf $1        ;;
      *.tar.bz2 | *.tbz2 )  tar xjvf $1        ;;
      *.tar.gz | *.tgz )    tar xzvf $1     ;;
      *.bz2)                bunzip2 $1       ;;
      *.rar)                unrar x $1     ;;
      *.gz)                 gunzip $1     ;;
      *.zip)                unzip $1     ;;
      *.Z)                  uncompress $1  ;;
      *.7z)                 7z x $1    ;;
      *.xz)                 tar xJvf $1     ;;
      *)   echo ""${1}" cannot be extracted via extract()" ;;
     esac
   else
     echo ""${1}" is not a valid file"
   fi
}
# Modified by bodhi.zazen
# Thanks to rezza at Arch Linux

You then extract an archive with

Code:

ex archive_name

You can use a different name if you do not want to use "ex"

[B] Regards

Anoop
[/B]

---

### Post by malspa on 2010-07-28
So are you saying that you're actually able to edit ~/.bashrc, but that code doesn't work?

---

### Post by AlphaLexman on 2010-07-28
the file '~/.bashrc' is your personal settings file for using the default terminal in ubuntu.
With in this file, you can personalize your prompt, aliases and even functions, as you are trying to do.
To edit this file, in a terminal, type:
```
gedit ~/.bashrc
```Copy and paste the code at the end of the text.
Click on File, Save. Close gedit.
Restart your terminal by typing:
```
exit
```Go to Applications, Terminal.
Your new functions will now work.

---

### Post by ubun2warrior on 2010-07-28
Thanks alphalexman, it worked.... 

regards

ubun2warrior

---

