---
title: "9.10~my pc is making static noises !"
date: 2010-04-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KEE on 2010-04-04
yeah first time ever being on ubuntu os. i got 3 going on one pc but only one partition is making static noises coming the speakers and its kinda loud. any ideas why?? its only happening to one partition so im clueless to whats going here...to be more descriptive its like a constant sssshhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh or same  as a radio being off frequency. anything ideas may help.

---

### Post by colorlessprism on 2010-04-04
my msi wind does this if i have the volume turned up all the way. im pretty sure it has to do with the microphone. if i have my corded mic plugged in and the volume up there is no sound, but if the volume is all the way up and i unplug my mic i get noise. try turning down the volume or disabling the mic and see if that helps

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-04-04
hmm thanks, i tried setting to even mute under system>preferences>sound but no results. a few days ago after the latest update something pop up in notification area at top panel it was a nvida audio thing i played with it but no results so i exited it. is anyone familiar nvida? i tried getting it back but no luck

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-04-05
so i guess this might be the thing thats causing the youtube audio not to work any more since this static noise is all i hear...is 9.10 beta? i hear movies sounds and games sounds(WoW and alien arena..etc)  and systems sounds but youtube no =S like help with this or is it better off deleting ubuntu?

---

### Post by colorlessprism on 2010-04-05
9.10 is not beta, and 10.04 is to be released within the month. check out [Launchpad Bugs]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/"), and see if anyone else is having the same kind of problem. you could also wait and see if Lucid will work better for you. if you decide to wait for Lucid i would do a fresh install. good luck

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-04-05
> **colorlessprism said:**
> 9.10 is not beta, and 10.04 is to be released within the month. check out [Launchpad Bugs]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/"), and see if anyone else is having the same kind of problem. you could also wait and see if Lucid will work better for you. if you decide to wait for Lucid i would do a fresh install. good luck

ah. i did kinda fixed it by running recovery at startup however the last one will only work =S but not good since nvida is not working and most drivers arnt either at this recovery point. how do i fix nvida x server? and fix the drivers? its said its running in low graphics mode. $:run something nvida xserver or something? I'd like to get that code =) please and thanks

---

### Post by KEE on 2010-04-05
ok i figured how to get the drivers however i get this error please refer to /var/log/jockey.log?!? i couldnt find that file or document. any ideas?

---

