---
title: "14.04 update - Nautilus missing window border?"
date: 2014-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by d!ck-t on 2014-04-26
Hey,

I just updated to 14.04 last night and suddenly nautilus ('Files') seems to be missing its window border. This problem is specific to Nautilus - all other apps behave correctly. I'm using GNOME and Ubuntu x64.

A screenshot is attached. Does anyone have any ideas on the cause of this issue or any solutions?

Thanks,
Richard
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/aud2dLy.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by Zirts on 2014-04-26
They removed broders in 14.04 and considering how Gnome wanted to handle the title bar, I think what you are seeing is "working as intended".

---

### Post by markoid8 on 2014-04-26
I have the same "issue". As much as I understand how this is "intended", I can't believe how there is no way to resize the window. Plus it looks awful. :P

---

### Post by d!ck-t on 2014-04-28
Thanks.
It's good to know that it's not 'broken' per se, but it really does look bad to the point of looking like it *is* broken.

---

### Post by ibjsb4 on 2014-04-28
If your not happy with nautilus there is nemo file manager.

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nemo_(file_manager)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nemo_(file_manager))

Its in the software center

---

### Post by faustobp on 2014-04-29
Nautilus (Files) is intended to have no title bar, or a merged titlebar-toolbar, but what we see in ubuntu is not "working as intended". The nautilus window is not just missing the title bar, the problem is much worse, **it is missing all window decoration** like resize handlers, window borders, window shadows, etc. So this is a bug in the gnome 3 windows manager which is forgetting to decorate the nautilus window for some reason.

---

### Post by michal-cap on 2014-05-11
It seems that Radiance GTK+ theme used by Ubuntu does not handle the client side decorations well and thus it looks and behaves broken. The default theme for Gnome called "Adwaita" looks good though. You can fix this issue thorough gnome-tweak-tool (sudo apt-get install gnome-tweak-tool). Go to Appearance tab and change Window and GTK+ theme to "Adwaita".

---

### Post by DaleAmon on 2014-06-07
Is anyone working to fix the issue? Nautilus is a mess without it. Question: there must be some state information stored in a dot file somewhere. Does anyone know what it is? If necessary as a temp workaround I could 'resize' the window by editing the persistant data and restarting Nautilus.

---

### Post by DaleAmon on 2014-06-08
I tried this with no joy:  "wmctrl -r NewPhotos -e 0,100,100,100,100"; I looked in some old nautilus files and found: window_geometry="500x476+390+94" but have not found an equivalent in the new files. The nearest I have found are in ~./.config/nautilus/* and don't seem very useful.

---

### Post by DaleAmon on 2014-06-08
Gave up. The Nautilus 'upgrade?', like the folks at Nemo say, is a total disaster. Nemo looks much better and it actually works. [http://cinnamon.linuxmint.com/?p=198](http://cinnamon.linuxmint.com/?p=198) . So now I just need to find the magic to make the Places menu on the tool bar dump Nautilus for Nemo. I wonder what would happen if I de-install Nautilus?

---

### Post by DaleAmon on 2014-06-08
Nemo is like a breath of fresh air. Easy to use, easy to find what you want, does what you mean. I highly recommend anyone who comes through this discussion to just simply dump Nautilus and never look back.

---

### Post by Gridwalker on 2014-10-25
I never had this problem with 14.04, but it struck as soon as I installed 14.10 ... PLEASE can somebody tell me that there is a fix before I go posting this issue as a new thread?

---

### Post by yanemail-g on 2015-09-13
ALT + wheel button

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-09-13
*Thread closed.*

Back to sleep. Please do not wake old dead threads. :)

---

