---
title: ".so install file?"
date: 2009-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by andyperfect on 2009-10-17
So I just got done extracting a .tar.gz file, but after extracting, all I'm given is a file with the extension .so. I've searched, but can't find any info on this...Anyone know how to install this kind of file?

---

### Post by Bachstelze on 2009-10-17
What's the file in question?

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-10-17
What's the file ?

Normally you would open a terminal and navigate to where you have stored the file and use the sh command to install.

---

### Post by andyperfect on 2009-10-17
It's Adobe flash 10. After extracting, I'm given the file "libflashplayer.so"

---

### Post by howefield on 2009-10-17
Copy it to ~/.mozilla/plugins/

Restart firefox and you should have flash.

---

### Post by sirgogo on 2009-10-17
I'm guessing this is a theme?

You don't "install it". It's basically a file with a bunch of linked components in an xml-style (kinda, not really).

To install the theme, go to System--> Preferences --> Appearance.
Hit "Install" and navigate to the .so file. This *should* work.

Let us know what happens.

---

### Post by scouser73 on 2009-10-17
[COLOR="Red"]**Installing Flash Player via the Adobe website.**[/COLOR]

**1** - Go to [[COLOR="Red"]**Adobe Flash**[/COLOR]]("http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/?promoid=BUIGP")

**2** - Select **.deb for Ubuntu 8.04+** from the drop down menu

**3** - Click **Agree & Install Now**

**4** - Select **Open With** **GDebi Package Installer** in firefox or save the file and install the **.deb** file that way

---

### Post by Johnny B on 2009-10-17
this is a flash install script:
> #!/bin/bash
# Script  created by
# Romeo-Adrian Cioaba [email]romeo.cioaba@spotonearth.com[/email]
# Edited by Jordan Loehr [email]jordan.loehr@gmail.com[/email]

echo "Stopping any Firefox that might be running"
sudo killall -9 firefox

echo "Removing any other flash plugin previously installed:"
sudo apt-get remove -y --purge flashplugin-nonfree gnash gnash-common mozilla-plugin-gnash swfdec-mozilla libflashsupport nspluginwrapper
sudo rm -f /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/*flash*
sudo rm -f ~/.mozilla/plugins/*flash*
sudo rm -f /usr/lib/firefox/plugins/*flash*
sudo rm -f /usr/lib/firefox-addons/plugins/*flash*
sudo rm -rfd /usr/lib/nspluginwrapper


[B]echo "Installing Flash Player 10"
sudo cp libflashplayer.so /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/
echo "Linking the libraries so Firefox and apps depending on XULRunner (vuze, liferea, rsswol) can find it."
sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so /usr/lib/firefox-addons/plugins/
sudo ln -sf /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so  /usr/lib/xulrunner-addons/plugins/[/B]

cd /etc/
mkdir adobe
sudo touch /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
sudo echo "OverrideGPUValidation=true" > /etc/adobe/mms.cfg
exit

---

### Post by andyperfect on 2009-10-17
Thanks a bunch guys - got that all figured out. Figures I should have searched for Adobe flash, rather than ".so" file. :)

---

