---
title: "U9.04 64 Bit vs. 32 bit Bootup Differences"
date: 2009-07-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Trapper on 2009-07-06
I have a dual boot of Ubuntu 9.04 32 bit and 64 bit. Everything is basically the same on both installs and both are up to date as of this morning. I have one glaring difference in the 2 installs though. The 64 bit install does a normal bootup displaying the boot splash and it runs through the progress bar routine, etc., normally. On the other hand, when the 32 bit install boots up the boot splash shows but the progress bar doesn't show bootup progression. Instead it simply bounces from left to right several times and then a black screen displays and the text "Reading files needed to boot ..." Then it goes into a text boot up display and I note that everything loads okay according to the text display and then I am presented with the normal login screen.

Up until about 2 weeks ago there was no variance in the bootups of the 64 and 32 bit installs. The different behavior in the 32 bit bootup started just after daily updates one day. Anyone have a clue to why this is happening?

---

### Post by Trapper on 2009-08-04
A month later I will answer my own question.

If your bootsplash first appears then disappears during bootup and is replaced with a text line that says " Reading files needed to boot" followed by a text bootup routine, do the following:


1. Get a listing of all the UUID's on your machine.

```
sudo blkid
```2. Find the UUID for your swap partition and then compare it to the swap UUID in your /etc/fstab and /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume


If it differs in either or both, do steps 3 -5. 


3. Change your /etc/fstab and/or /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume to the correct UUID. (I use Gnome and edit with gedit. Adjust according to your desktop or editor prefs.)

```
sudo gedit /etc/fstab

sudo gedit /etc/initramfs-tools/conf.d/resume
```4. Then get your kernel version:

```
uname -r
```5. Then update initramfs with your kernel version:

```
sudo update-initramfs -u -k "your kernel-version goes here without parenthesise"
```When you reboot you "should" have the correct bootsplash functions during bootup if your difficulty was an incorrect swap UUID.

---

