---
title: "8.04lts, 8.10Ibex, crashing ( ksoftirqd/1, ksoftirqd/0) !?"
date: 2009-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by carl99fan on 2009-01-20
I have installed 8.04, 8.10, and 8.04 64bit, 
I have tried all three on two different drives.
ALL of my installs work on a lesser computer using AMD XP 3200+

NONE of them are stable on my #1 computer:
AMD 64 X2 4200+
1gb ddr2 533 single channel 64 bit ram
SATA Segate 250 gig
integrated 6100n graphics.
I have turned off the CPU Frequency manager as suggested...to no avail
I have removed the Nivida drivers just in case and still if I do anything heavier than firefox I crash. 
My computer seems to work OK till I do file transfers or just push it hard in general.

I will be working on my computer and it will freeze up, If I click on anything either NOTHING will happen and I will be forced to hard boot, or I will get the "failed to launch child process" warning and THEN nothing will happen.
Pressing alt-ctrl-backspace does not even save me.

But most disturbing of all is when it freezes and I watch my gkrellm....
then I see ksoftirqd/1, ksoftirqd/0, and dd using 98-100% of both cores, and my hard drives reading,(or writing)  at OVER 300 M/s
my temperatures climb within 3 minutes to over 85C 
then I hard boot it again.
I am not reinstalling Ubuntu, I am fixing this cause reinstall fails to fix this pestering problem.
PLEASE PLEASE if you know ANYTHING or have ANY Ideas fill me in.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-01-20
> **carl99fan said:**
> 
........
I am not reinstalling Ubuntu, I am fixing this cause reinstall fails to fix this pestering problem.
PLEASE PLEASE if you know ANYTHING or have ANY Ideas fill me in.

I would suggest going into the BIOS and resetting everything to default or to a "Conservative" setting (if it is available).

Linux pushes the hardware to its limits, you may improve things by reducing those available limits.

---

### Post by carl99fan on 2009-01-20
Ok I have reset my BIOS to it's defaults.

I have a "Debranded" HP computer bought at Geeks.
I now have a HP Splash screen so who knows what other settings I overlooked.
Do you have any Idea what "ksoftirqd/1, ksoftirqd/0, or dd is?"
and why they would start up like that? I am about to do some large file transfers so we will see if the BIOS settings do the trick....

---

### Post by carl99fan on 2009-01-20
No good.
Still the ksoftirqd/1 and dd pop up after a few seconds of frozen screen.
Can't do anything at all. had to hard boot again.
happens in both compiz and metacity.

---

