---
title: ".deb file is not installing Skype"
date: 2010-09-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by J-E-N-O-V-A on 2010-09-22
When I try to run this .deb file: 

[http://www.skype.com/go/getskype-linux-beta-ubuntu-32](http://www.skype.com/go/getskype-linux-beta-ubuntu-32) 

I get this error:

Error: Dependency is not satisfiable: libqt4-dbus (>= 4.4.3)

On the package installer window.


I am running 9.10 and it is newly installed, I am connecting to a university network.

Also, I'm having problems downloading things through terminal where it simply says that it can't find the package.

---

### Post by s0rc3r3r on 2010-09-22
[http://friendlytechninja.com/2009/10/16/howto-install-skype-on-ubuntu-9-10-karmic-koala/](http://friendlytechninja.com/2009/10/16/howto-install-skype-on-ubuntu-9-10-karmic-koala/)

I hope that answers it.

---

### Post by J-E-N-O-V-A on 2010-09-22
I'm having problems updating everything actually, I can't even listen to mp3 files, it says it can't find the plug-in or that it doesn't exist. 

That's not very important though, I just really need to be able to video-call my girlfriend right now. I've just started uni and the computer has packed in, we used to skype every day and now all of a sudden we can't. I've explained to her the problem but I reallllly just need to get it sorted now.

I THINK the problem is that I haven't applied my network connection settings system-wide, but I don't know how because I'm auto-detecting the proxy.

System => Preferences => Network Proxy Preferences allows me to apply a proxy system wide, but it doesn't have an option for when I'm auto-detecting the proxy. The logical solution would be to find the proxy myself and apply it system-wide, but I haven't been using computers like this for years so I'm very crap at this kind of thing right now.

---

### Post by J-E-N-O-V-A on 2010-09-22
> **s0rc3r3r said:**
> [http://friendlytechninja.com/2009/10/16/howto-install-skype-on-ubuntu-9-10-karmic-koala/](http://friendlytechninja.com/2009/10/16/howto-install-skype-on-ubuntu-9-10-karmic-koala/)

I hope that answers it.

Thanks for your reply, the terminal outputs:

Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
E: Couldn't find package libqt4-dbus

I think the reason is my network connection issue described above.

---

### Post by DexterLB on 2010-09-22
MP3 is the worst format possible you could have chosen.. why not get something better eh?

If you're really keen on MP3 then you might also be keen on the rest of the freaky formats, so you'd want to install gstreamer-.* plugin packages using synaptic

---

### Post by J-E-N-O-V-A on 2010-09-22
> **DexterLB said:**
> MP3 is the worst format possible you could have chosen.. why not get something better eh?

If you're really keen on MP3 then you might also be keen on the rest of the freaky formats, so you'd want to install gstreamer-.* plugin packages using synaptic
Which format do you recommend?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2010-09-22
You need to install libqt4-dbus just as the error message says.  Either use a package manager like Synaptic, or open a terminal and type 'sudo apt-get install libqt4-dbus'.  Enter your password when prompted.  You'll likely see apt-get reporting that it needs to install some other packages as well (called "dependencies").  Just say yes, let apt-get do its thing, then try installing Skype again.

Alternatively, you could install the Skype package that Ubuntu maintains instead of the one Skype itself distributes.  If you stick to the packages in the Ubuntu repositories, resolving all the dependencies will be handled automatically for you.

---

### Post by J-E-N-O-V-A on 2010-09-23
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> You need to install libqt4-dbus just as the error message says.  Either use a package manager like Synaptic, or open a terminal and type 'sudo apt-get install libqt4-dbus'.  Enter your password when prompted.  You'll likely see apt-get reporting that it needs to install some other packages as well (called "dependencies").  Just say yes, let apt-get do its thing, then try installing Skype again.
It says it can't find libqt4-dbus.

> Alternatively, you could install the Skype package that Ubuntu maintains instead of the one Skype itself distributes.  If you stick to the packages in the Ubuntu repositories, resolving all the dependencies will be handled automatically for you.
I don't know how to install this Skype. Could you tell me how, or point me in the right direction?

---

### Post by punkybouy on 2010-12-05
install the gdebi package manager.  After installing that right click the Skype installer package you downloaded from Skype.  It should have the .deb extension.  When you right click the package one of the options is to open it with gdebi.  If you do that you will see a button to install the package.  Gdebi will find all the dependencies and install those too.

---

