---
title: "Video problems - Intergrated Via S3 Graphics"
date: 2009-06-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dunk on 2009-06-23
Hi all,

I'm having some fairly irretating problems getting these machines to detect their monitors, I have a feeling it may be because of the lack of graphics drivers, but to be honest, as long as it detects the screen properly and displays at 1280X1024 I actually don't care. They are work machines and will be mainly used for basic internet use and text.

What I have so far:

Output from sudo lshw -C display

  *-display UNCLAIMED     
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: K8M800/K8N800/K8N800A [S3 UniChrome Pro]
       vendor: VIA Technologies, Inc.
       physical id: 0
       bus info: pci@0000:01:00.0
       version: 01
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: pm agp agp-3.0 bus_master cap_list
       configuration: latency=32 mingnt=2

XORG.Conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
Modeline "1280x1024" 109.62  1280 1336 1472 1720  1024 1024 1026 1062 

EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Not really sure what else to supply. Please help me guys and guyettes :)

Dunk

---

### Post by dunk on 2009-06-23
Hate to bump, boss is breathing down my neck... lol

---

### Post by dunk on 2009-06-23
Come on... surely someone has had some experience in this???

Please?

---

### Post by dunk on 2009-06-23
quick update. I have now tested the exact same set up, but on a different Dell monitor. This has worked without any problems after a simple reboot. The problem is that these 8 systems need to use the IBM tfts because we don't have anymore of the Dell tfts.

Cheers

The model number of the IBM TFTs is 6657-HG2 (Thinkvision L170).

Please help me

---

### Post by davidryderuk on 2009-06-23
Hi i have a "via chrome9 hc" card on my computer. I am not fond of it, due to it having quite terrible support in linux.

I do know however that in order to get the best performance on these cards then you are probably best double checking that the computer is using the openchrome driver for via graphics cards and not the generic one. 

The ubuntu community page for this driver is shown below. It has a list of possible bugs you could encounter when using the openchrome driver and how to fix them.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenChrome](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/OpenChrome)

The driver is included by default so you should just need to add the right options in xorg.conf to activate it (the following is my xorg.conf file)

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "openchrome"   [COLOR="SeaGreen"]//you need to at least add this line [/COLOR]         
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load  "glx"  
        Load  "dri"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode         0666
EndSection


```

Also you might want to check out the actual openchrome site. One of the more relevant pages is a list of features supported for your card.

[http://www.openchrome.org/trac/wiki/SupportedHardware](http://www.openchrome.org/trac/wiki/SupportedHardware)

I believe your card is referred to as the "K8M800 (Unichrome Pro group B)". The information their seems to be related to your problem. For example:

> For Unichrome Pro laptops the driver automatically activates VBE modes to make the panel work, and you will thus be restricted to the BIOS modes when you are using the panel with these computers. (This may not work in 64-bit mode.) 

Lastly the following forum seems to have quite a high number of linux users with via graphics chip sets (much higher than this one).

[http://www.tkarena.com/forums/linux-arena/](http://www.tkarena.com/forums/linux-arena/)

---

### Post by davidryderuk on 2009-06-23
Hi,
To add to my last post, i haven't really had much experience with connecting monitors myself which is why i didn't mention it. However after a bit of googling it seems like the guy in the following post seems to have a very similar problem to yours. It might be worth going through the same trouble shooting method to check whether your problem is related.

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/73513](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/73513)

---

### Post by lakersforce on 2009-06-23
I have heard that Fedora has much better S3 support than Ubuntu. Appereantly it should work "out-of-box." SO if that is an option, I would recommend giving Fedora a try.

---

### Post by davidryderuk on 2009-06-24
The situation seems to fluctuate quite a lot. I'm pretty sure that the openchrome drivers are the only ones available at the moment, and that once the appropriate lines are added to xorg.conf there will be little difference between the two distributions anyway but i could be wrong.

Via have in the past developed both proprietary and open source drivers for linux that were included by default in some operating systems (not ubuntu though) that had more features than the openchrome ones, but i think they may well have given up on that front and have offered to help openchrome development instead. They haven't released any new drivers in around 7 months.

I have tried a couple of other distributions on this computer, but never seemed to have really gained anything from it. I guess i am probably too familiar with ubuntu and am slightly put off by other issues with my computer (sound and suspending the computer).

---

### Post by dunk on 2009-06-24
> **davidryderuk said:**
> Hi,
To add to my last post, i haven't really had much experience with connecting monitors myself which is why i didn't mention it. However after a bit of googling it seems like the guy in the following post seems to have a very similar problem to yours. It might be worth going through the same trouble shooting method to check whether your problem is related.

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/73513](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/73513)

Thank you so very much for that link. I cheated and copied his example of xorg.conf straight over mine and it worked perfectly! Thanks so much, I spent hours pouring over this so it's saved my neck!!

Cheers

Dunk

---

### Post by davidryderuk on 2009-06-24
Sure. I'm glad you sorted your problem. :)

I probably would have copied the code as well, but i didn't think we were supposed to advise others to do that.

---

