---
title: "11.10 Mouse problems"
date: 2011-10-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wowtip on 2011-10-19
Hi, 

Installed 11.10 64bit from scratch. Now I get lots of problems where the mouse stops working. Left mouse button doesn't give any reaction, for _some_ windows, menus, frames?? Sometimes it seems the RMB takes the functionality of LMB?

Is this a know issue? Serached the frums, bot no luck.

Using a pretty standard 2 button + wheel logitech mouse.

This only happens in Unity, installed xfce, no sign of problems there.

Regards,
wowtip

---

### Post by Thucydides411 on 2011-10-19
I have had mouse problems ever since installing 11.10 as well. I then wiped my installation and did a fresh install of 11.10, but the mouse problems remain. They occur both with a Synaptics touchpad and a USB mouse. The mouse sometimes randomly freezes. This is accompanied by windows being dragged randomly about the screen. Sometimes, but more rarely, the mouse can no longer click after being unfrozen, and the keyboard is also dead.

---

### Post by BobW on 2011-10-22
I've also had problem with my trackpad freezing since I upgraded.
The cursor doesn't move and the buttons don't work.

---

### Post by coondog on 2011-10-25
Hello, I am having similar issues with my Synaptics touchpad. My issue is my touchpad will not work at all, but a USB mouse works just fine. 

I am running 11.10, 32-bit, on a Gateway M685 notebook.

Coondog

---

### Post by wowtip on 2011-10-26
coondog, BobW: Take a look at this thread:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1852081](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1852081)

Could add that I use a Logitech USB mouse and Nvidia Geforce GTX 260

After creating this thread I reinstalled with Xubuntu. Same problem there, so I guess it is _not_ only a unity problem, as I first thought.

Up until recently I used 10.04, without any problems. As it is now I am thinking of going back until there is a fix for this problem.

---

### Post by coondog on 2011-10-26
wowtip,

Thanks for the link. Looks like we'll be waiting for an update to come out and fix the issue. I've been using a cheap mouse in the meantime, but I'm like you, I'll probably revert to 11.04 until a fix is out.

Thanks,
coondog

---

### Post by swappa on 2011-10-30
Just want to add that I have the same issues. 
Suddenly my left mouse button on my MS wireless mobile mouse won't work. I have had that problem on an earlier version of Ubuntu as well, just can't figure out what I did to fix it - if I did fix it at all. This is so frustrating...Oh well, just another one of those "really?" moments I have had with Ubuntu lately. ..

---

### Post by coondog on 2011-11-02
swappa,

Not sure if this will help you too, but for now I have unchecked the 'disable touchpad while typing' in the mouse settings. After running a few days without this option I haven't had any issues with the mouse locking up.

coondog

---

### Post by Jaybyrrd on 2011-11-02
Did you try using an event finder to see how ubuntu registers it?

---

### Post by saidhabla on 2011-11-22
I've found how to unfreeze it... but still waiting for a fix.

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/65157/mouse-freezes-and-trackpad-doesnt-work-anymore](http://askubuntu.com/questions/65157/mouse-freezes-and-trackpad-doesnt-work-anymore)

You have to open a terminal and write:

```
synclient TouchpadOff=0
```

It will start working again.

---

### Post by iksander on 2012-02-08
Is there a permanent fix for this in prospect?

---

### Post by gingaz on 2012-03-01
For my x201 this problem started out suddenly and now exists on 10.04-11.10 and fedora 15/16.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by miketwo on 2012-03-08
Not sure if it will help you, but this was [COLOR=Blue]**[my solution]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11749116#post11749116")**[/COLOR] (link).

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2012-04-07
I've just started having this problem about ten minutes ago, although it's disappearing in Firefox as well...

Weird!

---

