---
title: "8.04 Hardy: Root partition problem"
date: 2008-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mainak_sen on 2008-11-04
I have been using Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy for about 6 months now, and dual boot with XP. Things have been running great so long, but this problem started a couple of days back and I am clueless. I shall greatly appreciate if any of you can help me out.

I have a single 80 GB HDD currently:
Two partitions (10 GB each) for Win XP,
8 GB for /,
10 GB for /usr,
20 GB for /home,
2 GB for swap, and
20 GB unallocated

(I am attaching the GParted output for more details if any of you need.)

Currently, i.e. for the last couple of days, my file system is showing that the / partition is 100% full with no space available. Yet, I only keep the system files in the / partition and all my stuff (docs, pics, everything) elsewhere (i.e. under /home). Until a few days back, the / partition used to be not even 50% full. The only thing that has changed that I can think of are the system updates. Also, there is this gvfs-fuse-daemon thing that shows 100% usage.

Here is df output:

mainak@mainak-desktop:~$ df -h
Filesystem            Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda7             7.4G  7.4G     0 100% /
varrun                505M  100K  505M   1% /var/run
varlock               505M     0  505M   0% /var/lock
udev                  505M   64K  505M   1% /dev
devshm                505M   12K  505M   1% /dev/shm
lrm                   505M   39M  466M   8% /lib/modules/2.6.24-21-generic/volatile
/dev/sda9              19G  4.2G   14G  24% /home
/dev/sda8              12G  2.4G  8.2G  23% /usr
overflow              1.0M   36K  988K   4% /tmp
gvfs-fuse-daemon      7.4G  7.4G     0 100% /home/mainak/.gvfs
mainak@mainak-desktop:~$ 

(I am also attaching the System Monitor File System output)

I want to know what is eating the space in / and how I can free the unwanted stuff.

Any help will be greatly appreciated.

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by geirha on 2008-11-04
My guess is there's files in root's trash. Try this command which will show where the space on / is used
```
sudo du -h -x --max-depth=1 /
```

Also, when you install packages, they get downloaded to /var/cache/apt/archives before they are installed, and the package files won't get deleted until you run ```
sudo apt-get clean
```

---

### Post by tonybaqain on 2008-11-04
do an **ls -ld /*** and execlude /home and /usr from your investigation. you have /dev /etc /proc /boot /var /lib /root /bin and /sbin , all of these need space, and alot, depending on how much you install .

---

### Post by mainak_sen on 2008-11-04
Geirha:

Thanks! You were absolutely correct and the problem is solved.

---

