---
title: "10.10 - No updates in about 2 months! No errors either"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by snowweb on 2012-04-27
I've tried various different servers (US, Ubuntu Main, my local), which all 'apparently' succeed in downloading the lists but all say that there are no updates available.

Any help would be appreciated. Thanks.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2012-04-27
Maverick Meerkat is dead. Support for it ended sometime in mid April 2012. If you are running Meerkat, you will need to either upgrade, downgrade, or switch ditros.

---

### Post by snowweb on 2012-04-27
> **deadflowr said:**
> Maverick Meerkat is dead. Support for it ended sometime in mid April 2012. If you are running Meerkat, you will need to either upgrade, downgrade, or switch ditros.

Really? I realize it's not the latest OS but I expected to be able to updates for most of the related software for sometime to come! Looks like choosing Ubuntu was a wrong choice then.

So are we saying that after just 18 months, there are no more security updates for apache, bug fixes for pulseaudio, etc? If that's really true, that's unbelievable and very annoying! It's a good thing I didn't put it on my server - I don't want to have to rebuild it every 18 months!

Thanks for your reply.

---

### Post by amordeastrum on 2012-04-27
There are two different types of Ubuntu releases.  

One is just a normal and regular release that only gets supported for 18 months, 

and the other one is LTS (Long term support) releases which was supported for 3 years on desktop versions and 5 years for server versions.  

That changed on the latest release which is 12.04 LTS and now both desktop version and the server version does get supported for 5 years.

If you want something solid to work with for few years, you could install a LTS version could skip 2 LTS releases without upgrading.

---

### Post by snowweb on 2012-04-27
I'd love to upgrade, but I wanted to avoid Unity in 11.04+ which is why I didn't keep up to date.

I'm thinking now that since I now use KDE, Unity should not affect me, since I can just switch to back to KDE after upgrading right?

If so, the next issue is whether I can do a direct upgrade to 12.04 (especially now 10.10 doesn't even inform me of new releases and give me the option to upgrade)).

If I can't upgrade directly, then that just leave the option of going via 11.10 and then to 12.04, which might be very messy.

The trouble is, I'd love to have the latest software, but I have development environment setup on my machine. I have so much stuff installed and working well, that really need to know that the upgrade will probably go smoothly! Any words on this would be appreciated :-)

Thanks for your replies by the way deadflowr.

---

### Post by QIII on 2012-04-27
If I am not mistaken, you can do an upgrade from a non-LTS older version to the current version with the LiveCD.

Not sure exactly how that would go with Ubuntu to Kubuntu, but it might we worth a try.

Do thorough backups and give it a try if you would like.  Really take care with your development environment configurations.  I, for one, would like to know how you fare if you are intrepid enough to go that route.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-04-28
Do you have 25GB or even 10GB as a smaller / (root) partition? You can do a full install of 12.04 and see how it works. 

You can copy your /home over. If separate and you use it in your new install it may update some settings that then may not work well in the old install. 

You can export a list of installed apps, but many have changed so that may only be a choice if you want to edit list. I have manually installed some of my most important apps but still have my list from 10.10 which was my main install and want to do some comparisons to see what else I want to install.

---

