---
title: "8.10 causing laptop to heat up"
date: 2008-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-30
I noticed that after installing 8.10 my laptop is getting really hot in one area and the fans never seems to go on. I am not even doing any tasks on it as I have just had it sitting up doing nothing while I try to get my wireless working. So there is nothing that is tasking it or anything and if it is just heating up that bad from sitting there, I don't want to know what will happen if it has to do something that is really cpu/gpu intensive. This is really worrying me because I don't want it to ruin my hardware.:(

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2008-10-30
What kind of laptop is it?

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-10-30
i wouldnt be surprised at all if its an acer laptop mine runs super hot and i mean you could cook eggs on the touch pad!

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-31
Its an HP dv8000z or if you want the actual model its a dv8240us. Is there any terminal command I can use to check the heat of my processor and video card?

---

### Post by PsychedelicReaction on 2008-10-31
```
sudo acpi -t
```

or for a more comprehensive list

```
sudo apt-get install lm-sensors
sensors-detect
```

and finally for obtaining values

```
sensors
```

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-31
Thanks I'll try that when I load Ubuntu back up and see how it goes. Right now in Windows it is running cool and the fans kick on when they need to.

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-31
> **PsychedelicReaction said:**
> ```
sudo acpi -t
```

or for a more comprehensive list

```
sudo apt-get install lm-sensors
sensors-detect
```

and finally for obtaining values

```
sensors
```

I did the sudo acpi -t , but that gave me almost no info at all. I can't install lm-sensors because I don't have an internet connection in Ubuntu...still working on getting damn wireless up and running.
The problem seems to be that my fans refuse to turn on and it starts to overheat really really fast from doing nothing at all.

---

### Post by ju2wheels on 2008-10-31
Ubuntu doesnt enable the fan by default in all laptops. I know I had to manually go in and enable it for IBM Thinkpad and I had to make sure acpi was installed for it to work on my Eee PC. If not they run hot as can be.

I would recommend googling for info on your particular laptop and Linux in general as there may be an acpi module or config you may need to modify.

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-31
> **ju2wheels said:**
> Ubuntu doesnt enable the fan by default in all laptops. I know I had to manually go in and enable it for IBM Thinkpad and I had to make sure acpi was installed for it to work on my Eee PC. If not they run hot as can be.

I would recommend googling for info on your particular laptop and Linux in general as there may be an acpi module or config you may need to modify.

I'm not really getting much info from Google.... go figure. Could you tell me what you did so that I can get an idea?

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-31
I'm bumping this up as it is a serious problem that will eventually fry my laptop if I continue to use it and the fan doesn't kick in.

---

### Post by laney_1 on 2008-10-31
this is a serious problem! :(

try here for info on the laptop: [http://www.linux-on-laptops.com/hp.html](http://www.linux-on-laptops.com/hp.html)

the problem you had with being unable to install the cpu heat info:
try and find a .deb on the net while in windows and transfer it via a usb stick or other portable medium to ubuntu.

laney_1

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-31
> **laney_1 said:**
> this is a serious problem! :(

try here for info on the laptop: [http://www.linux-on-laptops.com/hp.html](http://www.linux-on-laptops.com/hp.html)

the problem you had with being unable to install the cpu heat info:
try and find a .deb on the net while in windows and transfer it via a usb stick or other portable medium to ubuntu.

laney_1

Thanks for trying laney, but I couldn't really find anything on that site dealing with fan issues. I even tried looking at similar models without finding anything.

Please if anyone can help out with my HP dv8000z's fan(s) not turning on in 8.10

---

### Post by Hyper Tails on 2008-10-31
I have the same issue too on my acer apsire 5715-4740

---

### Post by laney_1 on 2008-10-31
the only thing i can think of (and is what i am doing) is staying with "hardy heron" coz it is active for a few more years. and wait until 8.10 is sorted out and more bugs are solved.

laney_1

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-31
Well maybe someone should file a bug report for this so that they can try and fix it. Otherwise it will probably go unnoticed. I'm not exactly sure how to submit a bug report though.

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-10-31
Well I am bumping this and if anyone else has heating issues with 8.10 please post them in here.

---

### Post by bobyy on 2008-11-01
Ciao.
If you can please post here the 

$cat /proc/cpuinfo
and
$lsmod |grep cpu*

after that we will see if cpufreq modules are loaded..

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-01
> **bobyy said:**
> Ciao.
If you can please post here the 

$cat /proc/cpuinfo
and
$lsmod |grep cpu*

after that we will see if cpufreq modules are loaded..

Here is the output
```
brandon@ubuntu:~$ cat /proc/cpuinfo
processor	: 0
vendor_id	: AuthenticAMD
cpu family	: 15
model		: 36
model name	: AMD Turion(tm) 64 Mobile Technology ML-40
stepping	: 2
cpu MHz		: 800.000
cache size	: 1024 KB
fpu		: yes
fpu_exception	: yes
cpuid level	: 1
wp		: yes
flags		: fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush mmx fxsr sse sse2 syscall nx mmxext fxsr_opt lm 3dnowext 3dnow up rep_good nopl pni lahf_lm
bogomips	: 1591.83
TLB size	: 1024 4K pages
clflush size	: 64
cache_alignment	: 64
address sizes	: 40 bits physical, 48 bits virtual
power management: ts fid vid ttp tm stc

brandon@ubuntu:~$ lsmod |grep cpu*
cpufreq_powersave      10368  0 
cpufreq_userspace      12420  0 
cpufreq_stats          14468  0 
cpufreq_conservative    16392  0 
cpufreq_ondemand       16400  1 
freq_table             13568  3 powernow_k8,cpufreq_stats,cpufreq_ondemand
pata_acpi              13568  0 
8139cp                 31232  0 
mii                    14592  2 8139too,8139cp
libata                200160  3 pata_atiixp,pata_acpi,ata_generic
```

---

### Post by bobyy on 2008-11-01
Hy .
The modules seems to be loaded and the cpu is running ondemand cpufreq-policy ..
Sory ...have no clue...
Stupid question ..you clean the fan holes? after 6/7 monthh of running they are fulll of dust..

for check temp on your box you need to install HDDTEMP and LM-sensors.
After install hddtempyou can see the temp with:
$sudo hddtemp /dev/sda
and
$sudo sensors_detect  and after reboot $sensors will show cpu temp`s

if is on intel platform acpi stuff will not show your temperature.

---

### Post by Kaneda187 on 2008-11-01
hey! i searched to try and enable the fan manually but found nothing!
Anyone know how to do it? I just upgraded yesterday and since my fan is steadily going but in hardy it used to be a lot louder.... is this something i should be worried about?

---

### Post by laney_1 on 2008-11-01
i'm going to go and file a bug report coz now it is effecting my laptop :( (hp pavillion dv6807).

hopefully something will happen now.

UPDATE: there seems to be action taking place by the kernel team as there is already a number of bug reports concerning fan control in ubuntu.

laney_1

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-01
> **bobyy]Hy .
The modules seems to be loaded and the cpu is running ondemand cpufreq-policy ..
Sory ...have no clue...
Stupid question ..you clean the fan holes? after 6/7 monthh of running they are fulll of dust..

for check temp on your box you need to install HDDTEMP and LM-sensors.
After install hddtempyou can see the temp with:
$sudo hddtemp /dev/sda
and
$sudo sensors_detect and after reboot $sensors will show cpu temp`s

if is on intel platform acpi stuff will not show your temperature.[/QUOTE]

It runs fine in Hardy and it also runs fine in Windows XP. So the problem must lie in Intrepid.

[QUOTE=laney_1 said:**
> i'm going to go and file a bug report coz now it is effecting my laptop :( (hp pavillion dv6807).

hopefully something will happen now.

UPDATE: there seems to be action taking place by the kernel team as there is already a number of bug reports concerning fan control in ubuntu.

laney_1

Laney thanks for submitting a bug report and its good to know that they might be working on something. If you find out anything else please let me know. Thanks again

---

### Post by djwheels on 2008-11-01
I'm experiencing problems with 8.10 fan control on a Thinkpad X31.  By default the fan control is set to automatic, so that the fan speed is adjusted according to temperature.  The problem is the fan never starts up at all, then my laptop overheats and freezes.

I edited /etc/modprobe.d/options and added 'options thinkpad_acpi fan_control=1' then rebooted.  Now I can manually change the fan speed with /proc/acpi/ibm/fan.  Is there any way to set the temperatures that the automatic fan profile uses to control the fans?  Right now, I just have to manually control my fan speeds.

Could you post links to the bug reports that you filed/found?

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-02
> **djwheels said:**
> Could you post links to the bug reports that you filed/found?

Yeah, could you post them because I would like to know how this is turning out. I need some solution otherwise I can't use 8.10 until it gets fixed or I find a workaround.

---

### Post by S1l3nt_Hunt3r on 2008-11-02
Do you know if Hardy have the same issue? i want to install Ubuntu on my hp laptop, but i saw this post while i was doing some research before...

thanks

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-02
> **S1l3nt_Hunt3r said:**
> Do you know if Hardy have the same issue? i want to install Ubuntu on my hp laptop, but i saw this post while i was doing some research before...

thanks

I didn't seem to notice really any heat problems in Ubuntu 8.04.1

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-03
Well it seems I found laney's bug report on launchpad. Here it is [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/292374](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/292374)

---

### Post by radtek on 2008-11-03
I have a Toshiba A215-S5808.

I installed 8.10 64 bit (beta) at the beginning of October and everything worked perfectly OEM. Never thought to check the fan which is usually running full blast!

Out of concern I felt for air movement... Is there any? Hard to tell. Laptop seems cool. Lick my finger- seems as if there is air moving. I pull out a flashlight and peer in the vent at the fan. I can't see the blades so it must be spinning. Just not at full tilt. 

I like this in my case. Saves on my battery. Could this problem for others be related to a power-saving bug?

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-03
I don't know. My fans never turn on and my side ports probably near the integrated video card get really hot and I could start to feel it through the keyboard. Even though its reaching extreme highs in heat, the fan never kicks on and I don't know what to do.

I would like to resolve this issue otherwise using 8.10 is out of the question.

---

### Post by duanedesign on 2008-11-04
HP G60-120US
2.0 GHz AMD Turion X2 RM-70 Dual-Core Processor
Ubuntu 8.10 amd64
2.6.27-7 generic

When I run sensors-detect I get this?

Sorry, no sensors were detected.
Either your sensors are not supported, or they are connected to an
I2C or SMBus adapter that is not supported. See
[http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/FAQ/Chapter3](http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/FAQ/Chapter3) for further information.
If you find out what chips are on your board, check
[http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/Devices](http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/Devices) for driver status.

Here is the whole thing.

duanedesign@duanedesign-laptop:~$ sudo sensors-detect
# sensors-detect revision 5249 (2008-05-11 22:56:25 +0200)

This program will help you determine which kernel modules you need
to load to use lm_sensors most effectively. It is generally safe
and recommended to accept the default answers to all questions,
unless you know what you're doing.

We can start with probing for (PCI) I2C or SMBus adapters.
Do you want to probe now? (YES/no): YES
Probing for PCI bus adapters...
Found unknown SMBus adapter 10de:0752 at 0000:00:01.1.
Sorry, no supported PCI bus adapters found.

If you have undetectable or unsupported I2C/SMBus adapters, you can have
them scanned by manually loading the modules before running this script.

We are now going to do the I2C/SMBus adapter probings. Some chips may
be double detected; we choose the one with the highest confidence
value in that case.
If you found that the adapter hung after probing a certain address,
you can specify that address to remain unprobed.

Next adapter: NVIDIA i2c adapter  (i2c-0)
Do you want to scan it? (YES/no/selectively): YES

Next adapter: NVIDIA i2c adapter  (i2c-1)
Do you want to scan it? (YES/no/selectively): no

Next adapter: NVIDIA i2c adapter  (i2c-2)
Do you want to scan it? (YES/no/selectively): selectively
Please enter one or more addresses not to scan. Separate them with comma's.
You can specify a range by using dashes. Addresses may be decimal (like 54)
or hexadecimal (like 0x33).
Addresses: 

Some chips are also accessible through the ISA I/O ports. We have to
write to arbitrary I/O ports to probe them. This is usually safe though.
Yes, you do have ISA I/O ports even if you do not have any ISA slots!
Do you want to scan the ISA I/O ports? (YES/no): YES
Probing for `National Semiconductor LM78' at 0x290...       No
Probing for `National Semiconductor LM78-J' at 0x290...     No
Probing for `National Semiconductor LM79' at 0x290...       No
Probing for `Winbond W83781D' at 0x290...                   No
Probing for `Winbond W83782D' at 0x290...                   No
Probing for `IPMI BMC KCS' at 0xca0...                      No
Probing for `IPMI BMC SMIC' at 0xca8...                     No

Some Super I/O chips may also contain sensors. We have to write to
standard I/O ports to probe them. This is usually safe.
Do you want to scan for Super I/O sensors? (YES/no): YES
Probing for Super-I/O at 0x2e/0x2f
Trying family `National Semiconductor'...                   No
Trying family `SMSC'...                                     No
Trying family `VIA/Winbond/Fintek'...                       No
Trying family `ITE'...                                      No
Probing for Super-I/O at 0x4e/0x4f
Trying family `National Semiconductor'...                   Yes
Found unknown chip with ID 0xfc11

Some south bridges, CPUs or memory controllers may also contain
embedded sensors. Do you want to scan for them? (YES/no): YES
Silicon Integrated Systems SIS5595...                       No
VIA VT82C686 Integrated Sensors...                          No
VIA VT8231 Integrated Sensors...                            No
AMD K8 thermal sensors...                                   No
AMD K10 thermal sensors...                                  No
Intel Core family thermal sensor...                         No
Intel AMB FB-DIMM thermal sensor...                         No

Sorry, no sensors were detected.
Either your sensors are not supported, or they are connected to an
I2C or SMBus adapter that is not supported. See
[http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/FAQ/Chapter3](http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/FAQ/Chapter3) for further information.
If you find out what chips are on your board, check
[http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/Devices](http://www.lm-sensors.org/wiki/Devices) for driver status.

---

### Post by vmunoz on 2008-11-04
I am having the same problem, no fan function at all, after installing Ubuntu 8.10 on my s10 Lenovo. The system dual boots, on the XP side, the fan works fine. (Otherwise, 8.10 works great out of the box on the s10.) If there isn't a fix soon, I will probably downgrade to 8.04.1.

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-04
The fan seems to run, but it only runs when it gets EXTREMELY hot and for a short period of time. I could care less if my fan has to run all of the time as long as it cools my laptop down. This is nuts and no one seems to have an answer and I don't even think it is really being looked into. Nothing like destroying your hardware...

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-04
Anyone have any ideas as to how to get the fan to turn on at lower temperatures? This might be the problem, either that or it doesn't sense the video card temperature and only goes on when the cpu temperature gets really high. This will cause me to stop using Ubuntu if I can't find a solution soon. ;(

---

### Post by Prophion on 2008-11-05
I am having the same sort of problem with my laptop.

It is an Asus M51va and since the release of 8.10 I have it dual booting with Vista. Direct after running Ubuntu for about 10 minutes I noticed that on the right side of the touchpad the laptop gets a lot warmer then I was used to under Vista. 

After two days running both Ubuntu and Vista on and off, I noticed that in Vista one or more fans turn up in speed once in a while. In Ubuntu however the fans stay on the same level the entire time (I am not even sure the fan that is ment to blow out air is even working). 

I have read several threads and bugreports of other users who have similar problems, so I hope they will come up with a fix soon.

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-05
Yeah, this heating issue is a major deal in my opinion. They really need to fix it.

---

### Post by vmunoz on 2008-11-07
UPDATE 11-7-08:

Earlier I posted that I thought I was having problems with the fan in 8.10 either not coming on or waiting until things really got hot. I am not sure now.

I decided to triple boot my s10 Lenovo (a netbook with the Intel Atom processor)---adding Hardy to the existing XP and Intrepid installation---to try to see whether it was my hardware or an OS-related problem. 

In XP, the fan runs often throttling up and down depending on what you are doing. 8.04.1 behaved the same as 8.10: the fan did not appear to come on. I was leary of just running it until it got tangibly hot, not having temp readings, so I installed lm_sensors, sensord and sensors-applet from Synaptic, and added the gnome applet to the top desktop panel to monitor the temp. It hovered around 20C most of the time (pretty close to the ambient temp of the room), only rising into the 30s when I viewed a Youtube video, then quickly dropping. But still no audible fan.

Then I went back to 8.10 and did the same. I got the same temp and fan behavior.

On another forum, I read that even 50C is still a normal temp for the Atom CPU and nothing to worry about. So if the temperature readings I am getting in both Hardy and Intrepid are correct, my Atom processor is running rather cold. Admittedly, I haven't really run my s10 for long periods of time in a warm environment and/or stressed it. I will be trying that soon. What is puzzling though is why in XP, on the same machine under the same conditions, the fan runs audibly quite often.

Either the temp readings in Ubuntu are not correct or XP runs the fans unnecessarily or running XP just stresses the CPU more, causing the fan to run more often?

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-09
Well I am not sure about your 8.04.1 install, but on mine I never really noticed it getting hot like this in 8.10 I do notice the same stuff you are noticing though. I really need a fix for this whether it be a manual change that I have to have to fan running all of the time or something.

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-13
It seems even 8.04.1 is now giving me heat problems. Might have to stop using Ubuntu if this continues otherwise its bye-bye laptop. :(

---

### Post by trwww on 2008-11-13
I blogged about [Ubuntu Fan Control]("http://www.osbank.net/winxp-2-dellbuntu/2007/12/ubuntu-fan-control-with-gkrellm.html") when I got my Dell E1505N.

From what I understand this only works on x86 installs (not x86_64).

[http://www.osbank.net/winxp-2-dellbuntu/2007/12/ubuntu-fan-control-with-gkrellm.html](http://www.osbank.net/winxp-2-dellbuntu/2007/12/ubuntu-fan-control-with-gkrellm.html)

---

### Post by brandon88tube on 2008-11-13
> **trwww said:**
> I blogged about [Ubuntu Fan Control]("http://www.osbank.net/winxp-2-dellbuntu/2007/12/ubuntu-fan-control-with-gkrellm.html") when I got my Dell E1505N.

From what I understand this only works on x86 installs (not x86_64).

[http://www.osbank.net/winxp-2-dellbuntu/2007/12/ubuntu-fan-control-with-gkrellm.html](http://www.osbank.net/winxp-2-dellbuntu/2007/12/ubuntu-fan-control-with-gkrellm.html)

Well I have a 64-bit edition of Ubuntu... :(

---

### Post by Sorex on 2008-11-15
I used to have over-heating problems with 8.04, which I know were caused by kacpid constantly running.  One day it just stopped happening, don't ask me why.  I got an update for 8.04 the other day and it started happening again, so I decided to upgrade to 8.10.  The problem still persists, I can't kill acpi by any means, and if it turn it off in some boot doc that I've forgotten the name of then the computer fails to boot and I have to reinstall the OS.

If I tell the computer to hibernate, when it wakes the prob is gone.  But on a restart kacpid will start up and use 50% CPU at all times.

Doesn't bother me too much, but it does make the battery life about 40% less.  So I'm lying, it does bother me.

Please sort this problem, it's clearly a widespread one!:confused:

---

### Post by evil6 on 2009-01-20
on 8.04 hardy. After this week's updates (don't know which one) my fan no longer kicks in and my T43 thinkpad heats up big time. 

How do I rollback?

---

### Post by uncibex on 2009-02-02
I had this same problem for a while with a dv2000.  Turns out it's hp's problem.  Check their site to find a recent bios flash which will turn the fan on anytime the computer is on.  The only problem is that you may have to get it in windows =(.  I'm not sure about that though.

Good luck!

Oh, and if you continue to have problems with your hp, try complaining to their customer service over the phone.  I got a lot replaced for free out of warranty.

---

