---
title: "9.04 Nvidia issues..."
date: 2009-07-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lovhorror on 2009-07-01
okay so i go to display and get this error

It appears that your graphics driver does not support the necessary extensions to use this tool.  Do you want to use your graphics driver vendor's tool instead?

i click yes and it opens nvidia xserver settings with this error

You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. 

did that, didn't fix a damned thing. in fact, now i have more errors.

the nvidia drivers aren't working, it only starts in low graphics mode and i get a mess of errors at start up. i just want my resolution back to normal, i don't want to have low graphics, and i don't know enough about this OS to revert to 8.10. anybody know what the hell i can do?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-07-01
wrong section for help, but here goes...

reboot computer, from grub go to recovery mode, then choose XFIX

things should work somewhat ok


to fix the rest we need to know what Nvidia card you have...

---

### Post by aquavitae on 2009-07-01
I had a similar problem getting nvidia drivers to behave recently - I ended up manually tweaking xorg.conf (which I'm more comfortable with anyway...). Without going into all the details, you can check to see if you're using the nvidia driver by opening up /etc/X11/xorg.conf, scolling down to the Device section and seeing what Driver is set to.  If its "nvidia" you're using the proper nvidia driver.  If its something else (usually "nv", you're using the low-res open source one).  This doesn't really solve the problem, but it will at least let you figure out which driver its actually using.

Also, it might be a good idea to have a look at the xserver log (under /var/log/Xorg.0.log).

---

### Post by lovhorror on 2009-07-01
> **aquavitae said:**
> I had a similar problem getting nvidia drivers to behave recently - I ended up manually tweaking xorg.conf (which I'm more comfortable with anyway...). Without going into all the details, you can check to see if you're using the nvidia driver by opening up /etc/X11/xorg.conf, scolling down to the Device section and seeing what Driver is set to.  If its "nvidia" you're using the proper nvidia driver.  If its something else (usually "nv", you're using the low-res open source one).  This doesn't really solve the problem, but it will at least let you figure out which driver its actually using.

Also, it might be a good idea to have a look at the xserver log (under /var/log/Xorg.0.log).

the xorg.conf says i'm using the nvidia driver, and i'm still unsure of how to fix this. going to try the reboot and fix method now.

---

### Post by Michael.Godawski on 2009-07-01
Moved to General Help.

---

### Post by lovhorror on 2009-07-01
xfix didn't do crap. ugh. anybody have any other ideas?

---

### Post by LowSky on 2009-07-01
uninstall the nvidia driver, reboot into recover, run xfix... then before you go any further let us know what Nvidia chip your using, if you don't know just open a terminal and type this command

```
lspci -v
```

this way we can suggest maybe a different install method. Some graphics cards don't work well with certain drivers.

---

### Post by lovhorror on 2009-07-02
[http://pastebin.ws/8iiren](http://pastebin.ws/8iiren)

when i tried to uninstall the driver it said it wasn't installed in the first place, could you let me know the best method to uninstalling the driver? can anyone let me know what to do here, i can't take this low res anymore.

---

### Post by Pierre3400 on 2009-07-02
Im having the same problem, i m sorry, but its my first day useing ubuntu, and i have no idea how i get into recover, and i have no idea where i find xfix?

---

### Post by lovhorror on 2009-07-02
i really need this fixed asap, anybody? c'mon?

---

### Post by lovhorror on 2009-07-03
jesus, it's crap like this that makes me just want to go back to windows.

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2009-07-03
is your driver up to date it fixed it for me
system -> administration -> hardware drivers

---

### Post by lovhorror on 2009-07-03
wont let me activate any driver except STA. says downloading and installing at 0% then closes.

---

