---
title: "12.04 or 12.10? ATI HD 5970"
date: 2013-03-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ThePhysician on 2013-03-17
[COLOR=#000000]Hello all. I have 8 GB of ram and an AMD X6 processor and a really excellent HD 5970 video card. Problem is, I don't know which version of Ubuntu to install to get the best gaming performance for my card. Some people say not to use 64 bit because some stuff and drivers are worse or not compatible, and I know I don't get very good FPS at all on Team Fortress 2 on 12.10 32 bit. [/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Why is this? Is it just that ATI's drivers suck so far for that card? I was a $500 card and can play games at 100+ FPS across 3 monitors in Windows, but struggles to play TF2 even. Guhhh. Tired of Windows, just looking for recommendations of which version to install for the best gaming performance.[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]12.04 32 Bit[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]12.04 64 Bit[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]12.10 32 Bit (currently TF2 is choppy as Hell)[/COLOR]
[COLOR=#000000]12.10 64 Bit[/COLOR]

[COLOR=#000000]Thanks greatly.[/COLOR]

---

### Post by DMGrier on 2013-03-17
ATI does not make the best drivers for Ubuntu. Now my question to you is did you install the drivers via "additional Drivers" application or the website? The Website may provide a better more current driver in terms of performance but I don't know how stable it woud run. 

As far as difference between Ubuntu 12.04 and 12.10 there should be none, upon 12.04 release it had poor performace when it came to gaming due to Unity. When 12.10 was released Canonical released some major fixes to make Ubuntu a better gaming platform since we got steam but all these fixes from my understanding where back ported to Ubuntu 12.04.

I have always ran 64 bit for CPU performance but use what ever works with your driver, if 64 bit is supported then use Ubuntu 64 bit.

---

### Post by Toz on 2013-03-17
Duplicate threads merged. 

Please do not create duplicate threads for the same issue, it dilutes community effort.

---

