---
title: "Could not switch the monitor configuration could not find a suitable configuration"
date: 2009-07-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by irv on 2009-07-30
I did not make any changes in my configuration and everything was working great yesterday. The only thing I did was run an update. Now today my laptop would not boot into GUI. I found the problem was the external monitor that was plug in was causing it not to boot. After I unpluged it I got it to boot in GUI. When I plug in the LCD monitor, which was working just find yesterday and then try to switch I get this message popup in the right hand corner of my desktop. "Could not switch the monitor configuration could not find a suitable configuration of screens. I checked my configuration and I saw some changes.
For the record my LCD is a Hanns.G 22".It was set at 1080 X ?. I don't remember the last number. and I think the refresh rate was 60.
My setting are now 1280 X 1024 and the refresh rate is 75. I tried to change it, but I don't even have those setting any more. If I try to lower the Resolution and apply it make me restart the system and then it will not go into GUI again. I need to run the fix in recovery mode. 
Is there any thing I can do to try to get this to work again? I want to use my LCD.
Here are some screen shots of what I am looking at. [ATTACH]122936[/ATTACH]

[ATTACH]122937[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by CatmanTiger on 2009-07-30
I also have the same problem.  I had old HP ultra monitor & today I change it to new Topview LCD monitor (a Chinease one It's Website english one still under construction and only has chinease letters :( ) When I try to detect monitor in display preferances it detect it as AOC intl 16"  My problem is My monitor still not prefecty clear. It has gray bands near text & slight gray area on left side.

---

### Post by irv on 2009-07-30
I believe my problem is in my /etc/X11/xorg.conf file. Here is what mine looks like.
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
I wish I knew what it looked like before when everything was working. I checked all the backups in my /etc/X11 directory and there is nothing that look like the one I had. I know there is a way to run something in recovery mode to have the system redo the configuration, but I am not sure how to do it. I did it once before, but I just can't remember.

---

### Post by irv on 2009-07-30
I got it fixed! I ran the command:
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
``` Rebooted and it works. I check the xorg.conf file and it looked the same, but my display settings changed. here is the before and after display settings:
[ATTACH]122954[/ATTACH]
I hope this helps someone else.

---

### Post by CatmanTiger on 2009-07-30
Oh... you are exallent.:KS

---

