---
title: "10.04 Has Blank Screen"
date: 2010-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jim Hill on 2010-05-26
I'm getting a blank screen, which has the 10.04 background colors, but nothing at the top (start Firefox, shut down, etc.).

I reinstalled 10.04 from a CD, and everything was ok for about an hour when the blank screen problem occurred again. Right clicking the mouse brings up a menu containing create folder, create launcher, create document, clean up by name, keep aligned, paste, and change.  Restarting brings up the blank screen.

Any suggestions?
Jim

---

### Post by thunderbox on 2010-05-26
Sounds like its simply not starting gnome-panel press Alt+F2 and run this command

> killall gnome-panel

that should kill any instance of gnome-panel and then let it restart automatically

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-26
it might be a video issue: which graphic card/chipset is used and which driver installed (system admin hardware driver)

look at .xseesion-errors into /home (unhide it with menu)
and into: system admin log viewer: mainly xorg,system, user, messages

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -f
sudo dpkg --configure -a

---

### Post by Jim Hill on 2010-05-26
Thunderbird's fix works fine, but must use it each time I start Ubuntu.  It's easy to do, however. I enter the code and wait a short while for the change to occur.

I wonder what changed?  Maybe I accidentally entered something that made a permanent change, but don't think I'm in the mode where such changes are possible.  I'm using the normal Windows mode.

Jim

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-26
into synaptic, remove/purge then reinstall the package(s)

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2010-05-26
Have you done an update since installation, its worth doing as many fixes will come down through that.
 
System->Admin->Update Manager

---

