---
title: "9.04 RC Minor Problems"
date: 2009-04-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Colinho on 2009-04-18
Hi, I updated to 9.04 RC a short while ago, and so far it has been great ^_^

However I have a few minor problems. The first one is my aerodome. I can rotate the cube fine, but the aerodome background is coming out weird:

[http://i304.photobucket.com/albums/nn171/Colinho22/Screenshot-5.png](http://i304.photobucket.com/albums/nn171/Colinho22/Screenshot-5.png)

I did try changing the image but it made little difference.

The other minor inconvenience I am having is that the screen seems to chop off a few pixels on the left hand side of the screen. For example, the show desktop button in the bottom left hand corner is missing about a third.

I tried to take a screenshot of this too but the screenshot showed it as it should be! It also shows the "hidden" pixels when I rotate the cube, i.e zooming out, but when I zoom back into a face it shows it again. I have tried changing themes and changing resolution but these did not help either.

These aren't the most important of problems but any help would be much appreciated :)

Cheers

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2009-04-18
How is your screen connected to your PC and what graphics card/drivers are you using.
If you are connected through VGA your missing pixels are probably caused by an incorrectly setup monitor. Press the auto adjust button if you have one.

---

### Post by Colinho on 2009-04-19
Hi, thanks for the reply.

I'm using a VGA cable with my 19" Viewsonic VA1912wb. I had tried auto adjust before (forgot to mention it) but that didn't do anything. I looked through the menu and found manual image adjust, which did the trick :) Should have thought of that before >.<

I used a compiz checking script I found and this is the output:

```
 Distribution:          Ubuntu 9.04
 Desktop environment:   GNOME
 Graphics chip:         ATI Technologies Inc RV535 [Radeon X1650 Series] (rev 9e)
 Driver in use:         radeon
 Rendering method:      AIGLX

Checking if it's possible to run Compiz on your system...

 Checking for texture_from_pixmap...               [ OK ]
 Checking for non power of two support...          [ OK ]
 Checking for composite extension...               [ OK ]
 Checking for FBConfig...                          [ OK ]
 Checking for hardware/setup problems...           [ OK ]
```

While I was upgrading to 9.04 RC I saw a message that said something about a fglrx driver not going to be compatible. Looking at the output, the rendering method says aiglx, is this something different to fglrx? Could this be the problem with Issue #1 - the aerodome?

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2009-04-19
No AIGLX is correct.
Not really sure about compiz, I tend to only use the basic features.

---

### Post by Colinho on 2009-04-19
Haha yea, I usually only "do the cube" when I'm showing someone Ubuntu -

Me: "Well it's safer, it runs faster, you get daily updates, it's free..."
Them: "Sooo.... I still like XP"
Me: *Shows cube*
Them: "OMG thats soo awesome gimme a try"

I'll try reinstalling the fglrx driver later, see if I can get it to work.

---

