---
title: "(9.10) Cairo-Dock Help"
date: 2010-01-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bone Crusher on 2010-01-13
Hey is there a way to get Cairo-Dock to automatically start when I log in? I also set up widgets to come up when I press F9. Is there a way to automatically open the screenlets when I log in?

---

### Post by Is Mise on 2010-01-13
If you right click on your dock, there should be a run on startup option in the Cairo-Dock sub-menu. About the screenlets, do you mean GNOME Screenlets, or the ones in Cairo Dock?

---

### Post by Bone Crusher on 2010-01-13
Ok, I got the dock, now I need the screenlets. I have the CompizConfig Settings Manager. This the command I used to get it.

sudo apt-get install screenlets compizconfig-settings-manager

The CompizConfig Settings Manager starts, but every time I turn it on, I must launch each screenlet.

---

### Post by PepeLapiu on 2010-01-13
> **Bone Crusher said:**
> Hey is there a way to get Cairo-Dock to automatically start when I log in? I also set up widgets to come up when I press F9. Is there a way to automatically open the screenlets when I log in?
To get Cairo Dock to start automatically when you log in simply go to 'System' > 'Startup Applications' and a "Startup Applications Preferences" window will open. Click on "Add" button and that should bring up a smaller "Add Startup Program" window.

For the 'Name' field, you write :
Cairo Dock
For the 'Command' field you write : 
cairo-dock -o 
And for the 'Comment' field you write whatever you want, your description of Cairo Dock if you please or you can even leave it blank too.
Now click the 'Add' button and close the "Startup Applications Preferences" window and you are set.

On next reboot your Cairo Dock should start automatically.

I been using Ubuntu for only 3-4 weeks and this is my very first help post ........ YEAH!!!!

Cheers,
PepeLapiu :D

---

