---
title: "10.10 Enable shutdown without confirmation? (yes I know I know...)"
date: 2010-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t0p on 2010-12-28
I know this question has been asked many times before - in fact I've spent a good while trawling through Google results on this question, but all I could find was stuff relating to earlier releases and seemingly *not* to Maverick.  I keep seeing stuff that says "right-click on the shutdown icon, select Properties" and so on.  Well, I've just upgraded (should I say "upgraded"?  It was a fresh reinstall really, not an Upgrade through the Update Manager) to 10.10, and right-clicking on the shutdown icon does not produce a "Properties" option.  I get About, Remove From Panel, and Lock To Panel... none of which are helpful.

So, it's been asked before and I'm gonna ask it again: How do I remove the annoying confirmation when I want to shut down Ubuntu?  10.10, that is.

---

### Post by hariks0 on 2010-12-28
In gconf editor, go to

/ -> apps -> indicator-session

In the right pane enable the key suppress_logout_restart_shutdown and close the editor. Now when the shutdown or restart or logout button is pressed there will be no confirmation dialog. If you change your mind and need the confirmation dialog back just uncheck the key value.

Alternatively you can disable it by typing the typing the following command in the terminal:

```
gconftool-2 &#8211;type bool &#8211;set /apps/indicator-session/suppress_logout_restart_shutdown true 
```
To re-enable it just change the key value in the end of the command to false.

---

### Post by t0p on 2010-12-29
**hariks0**, thanks for that.

---

### Post by hariks0 on 2010-12-30
> *hariks0*, thanks for the command line solution.  I couldn't have done without it, as I have no idea how to open the gui for gconf editor.

How does one launch gconf editor?

Edit Main Menu > Applications > System Tools > Enable 'Configuration Editor'

:lolflag:

---

### Post by t0p on 2010-12-31
> **hariks0 said:**
> Edit Main Menu > Applications > System Tools > Enable 'Configuration Editor'

:lolflag:

Yes... or you can hit Alt+F2 (or open a terminal)  and type in

```

gconf-editor

```

I figured this out for myself shortly after asking the question, which is why I edited that post.  But thanks anyway.

I'm going to mark this thread [SOLVED].

---

