---
title: "Changing monitor settings from command line"
date: 2008-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vvule on 2008-05-14
Few days ago I've bought a new monitor. Then I've changed settings for monitor to the nearest match to my new monitor SAMSUNG 943N, but now the picture on the screen is a real mess, and now I can't change the settings to previous one, 'cause I can't see on what I'am clicking.

Does anybody know how I can set parametars for monitor from command line?

---

### Post by vvule on 2008-05-14
Anybody?

---

### Post by pointone on 2008-05-14
You can run:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg -phigh
```

...to automatically regenerate your xorg.conf with safe defaults.

---

### Post by vvule on 2008-05-15
Well thanks, that helped to some extent, now the resolution is O.K, but I`don`t have access to Screen Resolution menu in Preferences and the scroling of documents and web pages,... is sooooooooo slow. It`s dragging itself like an old man,... so to say. Just to mention I`ve recently upgraded my Ubuntu to 8.04
I`ve also enabled my ATI restricted driver, but "It si not currently in use"

---

### Post by pointone on 2008-05-15
This is because you are likely now using the vesa video driver. When running dpkg-reconfigure, it should have asked you which video driver you wanted to use, IIRC. Select fglrx instead of vesa. 

Alternatively, you should be able to run "aticonfig --initial" to start using the restricted driver again.

---

### Post by vvule on 2008-05-15
I`ve etnered aticonfig --initial and this is what came out

Found fglrx primary device section
Nothing to do, terminating.

Actually first I`ve chosed VGA instead of VESA (which was default), but that was before I`ve upgraded from 7.10 to 8.04.

But when I tried to reconfigure XORG under 8.04, there was no option to choose between those two, everything was done automaticaly. And scroling is very slooooooow.

This is very anoying!

---

### Post by fyo on 2008-05-15
Look at xorg.conf manually.

```

vi /etc/X11/xorg.conf

```

(or whatever editor you prefer.. kedit, nano...)

The ServerLayout (usually first) is the part that shows which of the sections below are used. Find the name of the "Screen" and then find that section (default is... wait for it... "Default Screen").

Find the Screen section and the part with the appropriate identifier (e.g. Default Screen).

Here you should find your display settings and a reference to your graphics card ("Device"). In this section you can give the exact resolutions and timings you want to use (see [modelines (wikipedia.org)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XFree86_Modeline)).

You might want to use a modeline tool:

[http://bohne-lang.de/spec/linux/modeline/](http://bohne-lang.de/spec/linux/modeline/)

---

### Post by vvule on 2008-05-15
Here`s my xorg.conf.

What should I change,add,...

My graphic card ATI Radenon X1300 Pro, and monitor is
Samsung 943N 1280 x 1024 with 5ms response time,

Also, now I don`t have Screen and Resolution option under System!

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection
```

---

### Post by fyo on 2008-05-15
Please enclose large blocks like that in code tags. That prevents it from taking up too much space and cluttering everything up.

> Also, now I don`t have Screen and Resolution option under System!

Oh mfg. The windowsification of Linux. Sigh...

There's a python script somewhere (xorgconfig.py) that inserts the relevant bits. Don't ask me how that's the slightest bit better than having everything right there in the file to begin with.

You should still be able to stick proper (old) syntax in there.

---

### Post by vvule on 2008-05-15
Ufff, thank you for your effort,but just to mention, I`am pretty much beginer in working with Linux (as you can see) :), so please if you can tell me what should I do with that python script,where it actually is, and please in as much detail as you are able to.

Thanks!

---

### Post by fyo on 2008-05-15
> **vvule said:**
> Ufff, thank you for your effort,but just to mention, I`am pretty much beginer in working with Linux (as you can see) :), so please if you can tell me what should I do with that python script,where it actually is, and please in as much detail as you are able to.

Thanks!

The python script works with the values stemming from the GUI inputs you've provided. (The GUI's used to modify the xorg.conf file directly, which could admittedly be a bit of a mess).

However, there's nothing wrong with mixing old and new style in the xorg.conf file (I notice now that my mouse is set up that way... although it wasn't previously... must've happened when I upgraded to Hardy Heron).

Your best bet is probably to try out the automagical stuff before venturing into xorg.conf land (my graphics card and monitor won't talk together, so the ONLY way for my system to work is a carefully hand-crafted xorg.conf... but that should be seen as a last resort).

For starters, fire up Synaptic and search for fglrx. This is the binary ATI driver (which provides 3D acceleration). You should see both the driver itself and a control panel for it (fglrx-control). Make sure both are installed.

See if that helps.

---

### Post by vvule on 2008-05-16
Well this is the new situation

I have fglrx and fglrx-control installed,also a ATI Catalyst Control Center section under Applications appeared. But when I try to start it this is what come out

There was a problem initializing Catalyst Control Center Linux Edition. It could be caused by following. No ATI graphics driver is installed or the ATI driver is not functioning properly. Plese install the ATI driver appropriate to your ATI hardware or configure using aticonfigure.

This is what comes out when I type aticonfig --initial

```
Data incomplete in file /etc/X11/xorg.conf
	Device section "Configured Video Device" must have a Driver line.
aticonfig: Parsing the configuration file failed.
The above error messages are reported from XFree86 and may assist you in
diagnosing the problem with your configuration input file. Try use -f option
to generate a new configuration file
```.

So, what should I enter under Driver line!

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by fyo on 2008-05-16
> **vvule said:**
> So, what should I enter under Driver line!

Thanks in advance

Before mucking about with anything else, I would uninstall both ati components and then install them again. Hopefully, that will fix whatever configuration is missing...

---

### Post by vvule on 2008-05-16
Thanks, 
eventually I`ve managed to force my display to 1280x1024, but without fglrx, it seems that this driver has made me problems. Because when I install it, the scrolling was so slow, but Hardware drivers showed that it is not in use, although it was properly installed and enabled>

What did I do? I`ve just uninstalled it, chosed Radeon (just Radeon not fglrx) driver on the next boot, from Low Graphics menu,reboteed twice,and now everything is O.K! How - I don`t know!

---

