---
title: "Change default OS dual boot"
date: 2011-08-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bruv on 2011-08-28
I would like to change the default to Windows on my second PC, for my wife's purposes.
It has Ubuntu and XP defaulting to Ubuntu now,I have tried StartUp-Manager from Ubuntu Software Centre, and that's no good.

---

### Post by kartabosh on 2011-08-28
> **Bruv said:**
> I would like to change the default to Windows on my second PC, for my wife's purposes.
It has Ubuntu and XP defaulting to Ubuntu now,I have tried StartUp-Manager from Ubuntu Software Centre, and that's no good.

open grub.cfg 

open a terminal and 

sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg 

and move the windows startup lines above the ubuntu startup lines

---

### Post by Bruv on 2011-08-28
It tells me at the very top 

DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.

There are several entries for Ubuntu with Windows only once, well down the list.

I am not very confident messing with this to be honest.

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-08-28
> open grub.cfg

open a terminal and

sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg 
No, kartabosh. This is bad** advice as changes will be overwritten at the next kernel or grub update.

For the full details see [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2")

You need to edit **/etc/default/grub** and then run **sudo update-grub**

In the link above, scroll down to **/etc/default/grub (file)** to learn how to edit the file so your wife's PC will _always_ default to boot to win, unless some action is taken by the user.

---

### Post by Bruv on 2011-08-28
I shall have to study all that before I make any moves, or I could teach her how to change it at boot.......don't know which will be more difficult at the moment.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-08-28
You can also do that, but not much else at the moment, with **startupmanager**;  much easier than the /etc/default/grub edit, though it is worth looking into that as it is a very valuable exercise in configuring grub.
```
sudo apt-get install startupmanager
```

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-08-28
Take a look [**_[COLOR="DarkRed"]Here[/COLOR]_**]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1826142").

---

### Post by tredegar on 2011-08-28
> don't know which will be more difficult at the moment.
In the long term, it is better to edit **/etc/default/grub**

That way, things will not break when updates are applied.

The 4th post in stinkeye's link (by Mark Phelps) is the best, and most reliable way to go.

---

### Post by Bruv on 2011-08-28
I took the bull by the horns and did it, worked a treat.


Thank you all very much indeed.........better than trying to talk to the lady about computors, and paying attention during boot up.

---

