---
title: "11.04 black line issue"
date: 2011-08-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kingjimbo on 2011-08-27
A couple of weeks ago I "upgraded" to Ubuntu 11.04. Since then I have nothing but trouble (search my name and you see what I mean). 

Now I have come across another issue. Every once in a while (1 time every 2 minutes) a horizontal black line about 2 cm thick appears on my screen. It doesnt matter if I'm watching a video, browsing the web or doing nothing. It seems to appear pseudo random. 
I didn't have this problem before. I didn't change anything, however the update manager recently updated my system.

Help would be greatly appreciated. 

Might this be driver related?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-08-27
should means a graphic driver not activated: check "additional driver" from the menu

if you use nvidia: install (reinstall) both dkms & nvidia-current ( sudo synaptic)

---

### Post by kingjimbo on 2011-08-27
> **dino99 said:**
> should means a graphic driver not activated: check "additional driver" from the menu

if you use nvidia: install (reinstall) both dkms & nvidia-current ( sudo synaptic)
Thanks but I already checked that out. It shows that I am using the ATI/AMD proprietary FGLRX graphics driver.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2011-08-27
Sorry to tell you this ... but the appearance of solid bands of color on your monitor (I'm assuming it is a flat panel ... most are these days), is an indication that the panel hardware is failing.

I had this very thing happen with a Dell panel.  It started infrequently, got worse over time, and eventually, appeared every time I turned on the PC.  Prices being what they are today for new flat panels, it's not worth the expense of shipping it off to be repaired.

So, start saving for a new flat panel.  This one is going out!

---

