---
title: "NTFS-3G freezes my Feisty!"
date: 2007-06-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2007-06-04
I've had, until now, a perfect 7.04 fresh install. Printer, 'net, nvid card, sound, it was all good. The last job was to configure ntfs-3g and get my windows drive accessed. I'm running  a dual-boot with Windows on hda and Ubuntu on hdb.

The config went well and the Win drive showed up as mounted and I started to access, but it suddenly froze up. No warning, just a flashing Caps Lock LED on my keyboard. I had to kill power to reboot. This happens totally at random. Sometimes I can access hda well, the next time, it will freeze as soon as I go into /media/windows. I can be halfway through transferring a file to Windows when it freezes up! There seems to be no set pattern to it. The computer is stable at all other times, it just seems to be when I go for the Win drive. 

I also tried to remove then re-enable write support via ntfs-config, that seems to freeze it up instantly. Here's a copy of /etc/fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hdb1 :
UUID=59d42914-418d-499f-9f9c-1d280ef4726a / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=18a0d127-bd97-4d4a-b77e-ce6b5aff4e3a none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_GB.UTF-8 0 0

I can't see anything weird going on here, but the problem is big. I have specific software I use in Windows and some I use in Ubuntu, the sharing of files here between the two is a *little* bit essential!

Any help would be gratefully received!

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-06-04
Boot into XP and make sure you shutdown your XP properly instead of going into hibernation.  Then, see if you can access your ntfs filesystem from Ubuntu now.

---

### Post by szaka on 2007-06-04
When a user space process can freeze your computer then you either have a kernel bug or bad hardware. Considering that more and more people meet with hardware faults as the weather is getting increasingly warmer in the northern hemisphere, it's highly probably this is the reason in your case too. Could you please send the output of this command?
egrep -i 'ntfs|fuse|dma' /var/log/messages /var/log/messages.log /var/log/daemon.log

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2007-06-05
thanks for replying. OK. I've tried the log into windows and shut down cleanly a few times, it seems to make no difference. I accessed the logs and came up with this

egrep -i 'ntfs|fuse|dma' /var/log/messages /var/log/messages.log /var/log/daemon.log

grep: /var/log/messages.log: No such file or directory

/var/log/daemon.log: Jun  4 21:44:08 purepagan-desktop ntfs-3g[4051]: Unmounting /dev/hda1 ()
/var/log/daemon.log: Jun  4 21:44:24 purepagan-desktop ntfs-3g[6200]: Version 1.328
/var/log/daemon.log: Jun  4 21:44:24 purepagan-desktop ntfs-3g[6200]: Mounted /dev/hda1 (Read-Write, label "", NTFS 3.1)
/var/log/daemon.log: Jun  4 21:44:24 purepagan-desktop ntfs-3g[6200]: Options: noatime,rw,silent,allow_other,nonempty,fsname=/dev/hda1,blkdev,blksize=4096

I've noticed that if I 'sudo hdparm -d1 /dev/hda' then the problem seems to disappear, it behaves itself. I'm guessing a DMA problem, but I'm no expert!

I never had this problem under Edgy, and the drive is under a year old, it's a Seagate 160Gb, so it should be working OK.

---

### Post by kelvin spratt on 2007-06-05
you are running much the same as me i personally find that automatix does a better job of managing my NTFS drives than the Fiesty version as it rewrites permissions i store everything in ntfs

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2007-06-05
OK. I tried a small change to my 'sudo hdparm -d1 /dev/hda' from '/hda' to '/hda1' and got a small surprise

/dev/hda1
 setting using_dma to 1 (on)
 HDIO_SET_DMA failed: Invalid arguement
 using_dma = 0 (off)

I thought the *hdparm* command was doing something useful, but I came up with another random crash earlier today. I tried the Automatix NTFS mounter, but there's no difference there, apart from:

*locale=en_GB *  changes to
*locale=en_US*   in the Automatix version

Like I said before, I had no problem with the drive under Edgy, and chkdsk with windows reports nothing odd.

---

### Post by szaka on 2007-06-05
Yep, it seems to be a hardware or disk driver problem.

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2007-06-05
OK. Fair enough, only problem is that DMA is active and working just fine in windows. Now I've tried *hdparm /dev/hda1* and I get this:

/dev/hda1:
 multcount = 0 (off)
 IO_support = 1 (32-bit)
 unmaskirq = 1 (on)
 using_dma = 1 (on)
 keepsettings = 0 (off)
 readonly = 0 (off)
 readahead = 256 (on)
 geometry = 19457/255/63, sectors = 312560577, start = 63

er... DMA appears to be on, despite the error message from *hdparm -d1 /dev/hda1*

*hdparm -Tt /dev/hda1* gives the following:

Timing cached reads: 620 MB in 2.00 seconds = 309.53 MB/sec
Timing buffered disk reads: 154 MB in 3.02 seconds = 50.98 MB/sec

Well, the speeds look fine to me. Am I barking up the wrong tree here?

---

### Post by sleepingdragon on 2007-08-08
Ok. I've had to make a little change with visudo to allow me user rights to hdparm and setting it to run automatically when i login via the autostart in KDE. This seems to work well and I've had no other problems since. No the most ideal solution, but a solution it is...

---

