---
title: "new 11.10 install - untrusted packages????"
date: 2011-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2011-10-20
newbie just installed clean 11.10.  The first thing was to choose best server and then I did a 'updates available'.  Attached picture shows a few packages required under title Important Security Updates. When I choose Install Updates a window pops up saying Requires installation of untrusted packages.  How can this be on a clean install??  I have done sudo apt-get update & upgrade.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2011-10-20
Hmm... seems the problem was the 'best server'.  I reverted back to the main uk server and the updates are installing.

---

### Post by thisweb on 2011-10-30
I can't install updates and get same error message when doing with updates manager .     I have repopstory wine1.3 and wont update as it is untrusted.   Never used a key in ubuntu before.  Used wine repository for the last 5 installations of ubuntu, never had this message.  Others pop up (eg gnome-pie, and linux headers also) but there is no option to install without.  Why now?  Ubuntu is changed so dramatically, settings and security options slowly removed to the point of unusability. It is now so annoying that I am thinking of switching back to windows. Please can anyone help fix this. I don't even know where to find a key! Really hope adding keys is not  the solution anyway, its a VERY VERY VERY un-user friendly way of doing things which makes whole Unity (fisherprice easy) move idiotic.  I can't enter keys (put up with doing so every time), new users wouldn't have a clue!  Any other solution?  It was fine in 11.04

---

### Post by Miraceti16 on 2011-12-08
Hi I have the same problem and it is always with the Wine update.  This is a solution that works for me, I just run this script, which I made from a set of instructions I found on one of the Ubuntu Forums.   The following lines need to be copied into your text editor and then saved.  I use the name FixUpgrade.sh and to use the script you must use the command  sh FixUpgrade.sh.  It will ask for your password, it takes a while to run and at one point it asks if you want to continue, just press Y and it will continue.   As I said this works ok for me, but I really would like a resolution to the problem rather than just this work around:

The Script: copy all lines below the ****************************  into your text editor, and save it.

**********************************************************************

#!/bin/bash

sudo fuser -vvv /var/lib/dpkg/lock

cat /etc/lsb-release

uname -a

sudo rm /var/lib/apt/lists/lock 

sudo cp -arf /var/lib/dpkg /var/lib/dpkg.backup

sudo cp /var/lib/dpkg/status-old /var/lib/dpkg/status

sudo cp /var/lib/dpkg/available-old /var/lib/dpkg/available

sudo rm -rf /var/lib/dpkg/updates/*

sudo rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists

sudo rm /var/cache/apt/*.bin

sudo mkdir /var/lib/apt/lists

sudo mkdir /var/lib/apt/lists/partial

LANG=C;sudo apt-get clean

LANG=C;sudo apt-get autoclean

LANG=C;sudo apt-get --purge autoremove

LANG=C;sudo apt-get update -o APT::Cache-Limit=25165824

sudo dpkg --clear-avail

sudo dpkg --configure -a

LANG=C;sudo apt-get -f install

LANG=C;sudo apt-get --fix-missing install

LANG=C;sudo apt-get update -o APT::Cache-Limit=25165824 && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

---

