---
title: "9.04 kernal update"
date: 2009-07-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 16sinker on 2009-07-29
This morning I took a kernel update to 2.6.28-14. When I rebooted I opened GRUB to make sure that the new kernel was included. It was, but the previous kernel 2,6.28-13 had been removed. I checked Startup Manager and found that there was only 1 kernel checked to keep instead of 2. I have always kept 2 and didn't know there had been a change. Can I reload the previous kernel with Synaptic and if so will it automatically be loaded in GRUB?

---

### Post by michy99 on 2009-07-29
Has the kernal itself been removed or just the entry in menu.lst? What do you get for```
ls /boot/vmlinuz*
```

---

### Post by 16sinker on 2009-07-29
> **michy99 said:**
> Has the kernal itself been removed or just the entry in menu.lst? What do you get for```
ls /boot/vmlinuz*
```


Here is that output.

bofus@ubuntudell:~$ ls /boot/vmlinuz*
/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.28-14-generic
bofus@ubuntudell:~$

---

### Post by darco on 2009-07-29
Are you having any problems w/the new kernel? If not, I wouldnt worry about it. The point is to be able to go back to the previous kernel if the new kernel has issues...

darco

---

### Post by michy99 on 2009-07-29
Looks like 2.6.28-13 is gone. I think the packages you need to install to get it back are:```
linux-headers-2.6.28-13-generic
linux-image-2.6.28-13-generic
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.28-13-generic
```I'm really not sure if it will fix the menu.lst or not. If it doesn't, it is an easy job to edit it by hand.

---

### Post by 16sinker on 2009-07-29
No. I'm not having any problems with the new kernel and I have changed the setting in Startup Manager to "keep 2 kernels" so after the next kernel update I should have 2 kernels in GRUB. Am I right? I'm not going to worry about it and thanks for your reply.

---

