---
title: "11.04 Evolution 2.32.2 - multiple address books"
date: 2011-05-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Lerxst on 2011-05-18
I'm having an issue in Evolution after upgrading to 11.04 in which upon autocompletion when typing emailaddresses in the To/CC fields, is slower than molasses.

I'm trying to troubleshoot this issue, but in my Evolution the Personal addressbook (from Contacts) is displayed 7 times. That is I have one CouchDB, one entry for the Exchange 2003 server, and 7 "On This Computer/Personal" addressbooks. 

Any contact I add in one of these end up in every single of the others, even though none of these addressbooks are in use. But I can give every addressbook an individual name, so it appears to individual addressbooks.

I have searched the home folder and /usr for where I can find these and remove them, but they simply are nowhere to be found. 

Does anyone know in which file I need to edit in order to fix this, and does anyone else have the slow autocompletion problem after upgrading to 11.04?

---

### Post by kuhnza on 2011-06-30
> **Lerxst said:**
> I'm having an issue in Evolution after upgrading to 11.04 in which upon autocompletion when typing emailaddresses in the To/CC fields, is slower than molasses.


I'm experiencing the same issue on a fresh install of 11.04 with all the latest patches applied. I'm not sure if this is related but I added my Gmail address book to my contacts.

Is anyone else getting the same thing? Would love to know if this has been resolved.

---

