---
title: "12.04 LTS Guest Account"
date: 2012-07-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hank22077 on 2012-07-18
OK, I just upgraded & @ 1st wasn't sure if I'd like the new layout.
Seems cool, though...I'm gettin familiar now.
However, I do not like the fact that my computer can be turned on and logged into on guest account.
Can I change this to where an admin has to login to 'grant' access to Guest, like before in 10.04 LTS?
If so, how?

Thanks

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2012-07-18
Wow, this is more complex than I thought.  At first I was just going to say to disable it in the usual place.  Looks like you have a slight bit more work ahead to do it.  Check out this link for instructions on how to disable the Guest account:

[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/ubuntu-tiphow-to-disable-guest-account-in-ubuntu-12-04precise.html](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/ubuntu-tiphow-to-disable-guest-account-in-ubuntu-12-04precise.html)

---

### Post by hank22077 on 2012-07-18
Ok, thanks; but, I don't want it disabled.
I want my kids or thier friends or whom ever to be able to use a guest account.
I just want it like before.
No guest access without a logged in user to switch to it

---

### Post by Tommy on 2012-07-18
> **hank22077 said:**
> Ok, thanks; but, I don't want it disabled.
I want my kids or thier friends or whom ever to be able to use a guest account.
I just want it like before.
No guest access without a logged in user to switch to it

It sounds like you may need to consider exactly what it is you don't want the guests to do. 

If for example you want to keep them from accessing the Internet in the middle of the night or the middle of the afternoon, then you can program your router (or maybe even a cron job in Ubuntu) to enforce the hours. You could even use software like some hotels use that requires an authorization key to connect via your router.

If they have access to your hardware when you're not around, what's to keep them from booting from a live Ubuntu CD or USB drive? They wouldn't be able to MAKE it from a guest account, but it's not a really high hurdle if they have other friends with computers.

---

### Post by hank22077 on 2012-08-26
This doesn't seem so important anymore, so I'm marking it as solved.

However, I'd still like the 'old' option to enable guest account.

---

