---
title: "11.04 artifacts poll, please reply."
date: 2011-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jony121 on 2011-06-01
Not really looking for help but more a poll. If it's not just me then I will stop pulling my hair out.
Since the upgrade to 11.04 I am seeing lots of graphical artifacts and jerky movements from the effects (like the side bar and open/close windows.) If I say run a gl game it gets worse, the screen is covered and the login screen is impossible to see. If I log into the ubuntu classic (no effects) I see no artifacts till I log out.

Is anyone else experiencing problems with artifacts? yes/no is all that is needed but more info welcomed.

My specs:
Intel Centrino Duo
2gb Ram
Geforce 8400m gt (tried re-installing the drivers to no effect.)
ubuntu 64bit.

---

### Post by seawolf167 on 2011-06-01
Have you tried both the Hardware Drivers and the x86_64 manufacturer [proprietary drivers]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-270.41.19-driver.html")?

---

### Post by Frantic_Earthling on 2011-06-01
I have experienced none of these problems.

I have 32-bit 11.04 with Unity running on:

Asus M70Vn
Duo T9400
GeForce 9650M GT
nVidia with "nVidia accelerated graphics driver (version current) [recommended]"
4GB RAM

---

### Post by jony121 on 2011-06-02
> **seawolf167 said:**
> Have you tried both the Hardware Drivers and the x86_64 manufacturer [proprietary drivers]("http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-amd64-270.41.19-driver.html")?

Clever, I had considered them the same thing. I shall give it a shot.

I had hoped it was just a glitch with the new unity stuff.

Will post back later. Thanks to both of you for replying.

EDIT---

No luck. Never mind guys, guess it must just be one of those things. I shall try laying off the games for a while. Damn you TuxRacer!

---

