---
title: "My first cup of ubuntu"
date: 2008-12-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tijuana on 2008-12-18
hi everyone!

After getting fed up with how windows doesn't let you customise the GUI to your liking, I decided to switch to Linux on my notebook, just to try it out, and giving that ubuntu is held by a lot of people to be the easy to use linux without sacrificing features, I decided to go this way.

A friend of mine told me that I should try out KDE because its interface is similar to Windows, so I went and downloaded kubuntu 8.10. I found KDE 4.1 to have too many rough edges still so after a couple of days I dled ubuntu 8.10 and so far, it rocks! It's much faster than vista and the customization features i've seen so far are very promising.


My trial version of win server 2008 on my desktop pc expires soon so i'd like to get to know linux and specifically ubuntu better (so far i've followed step by step guides to configure some stuff - like the video card - but generally I feel like i'm completely in the dark with no knoledge whatsoever as to what i'm doing and what secondary effects my actions produce on the system as a whole). First of all, I'd like you to recommend me some books on linux, ubuntu, and linux for (dummies) windows users :P. Mark minasi, author of the spectacular "mastering windows server" series has a book on looking at linux from the windows IT admin perspective but I have still to read a review about it and I don't want to spend 50 bucks for a book without recommendation. This isn't the goal of my post, however, since I haven't got enough time to read some linux bibles; at least not right now.

Second, some specific issues I need to resolve in order to get linux looking the way my win desktop did, 'cause I need to get productive right away and the best way to acheive that is to get my ubuntu to look like my windows install. Here are the list of things I need to change in order to do so.

1. cube desktop and titlebar actions: in my windows setup I have yodm installed giving me a nice desktop cube and winroll to make my windows roll up/down. This allows me to get rid of the taskbar. Since Linux is all about being open (i.e. customizable) I would like to know if I can disable the minimize function on all windows. For the cube I installed compiz and configured it so that my mousewheel rolls my windows. The problem with that is that when I connect two displays and use xrandr to extend my desktop, compiz (and hence the cube and mousewheel effects) stops working (from what I read my Graphics card, an Intel X3100, can't handle a virtual resolution of 2880x1200). Though I can live without the cube I can't go without a simple roll gesture (gnome allows you to roll the window up with a double click but i'd like to be able to do it with one right-click or the mousewheel). Another compiz feature I haven't been able to disable is that the cube activates and my desktop switches everytime I use the mousewheel when my desktop is focused. since the mousewheel gesture on a titlebar rolls the window up and down, and I use this function all the time, I sometimes miss the titlebar and end up switching the desktop :S

2. dual display: I configured xrandr to get both my displays working. All was fine until I restarted my laptop. when I log in, both displays activate, but only my laptop display shows anything, my external CRT shows only an orange background. I can apparently move my mouse out of my laptop display but it just disappears, it doesn't go to my CRT.

Here are the contents of my xorg.conf file:

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"intel"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Modes	"1280x800" "1600x1200"
		Virtual	2880 1200
	EndSubSection
EndSection
```

3. docks: I hate the taskbar: it uses valuable space and is very unintuitive, more so with each new release of windows. To make it go away I installed objectdock and configured 5 docks as follows:

a) bottom autohiding dock with my most frequently used places.
b) right dock with the system tray.
c) right autohiding dock with shutdown and restart buttons.
d) top left corner dock with the clock.
e) left autohiding dock with icons for installed games.

Is there anyway to mimic this configuration with gnome's panels, or another app that provides docks?

4. app launcher: with vista's start menu I got used to typing in the app's name and then selecting it from a list of found apps. kde's launcher works similarly. Can I configure gnome to behave accordingly?

5. Mouse and keyboard shortcuts: how do I configure my mouse so that it works like this:

a. right click: options menu in an app, roll up/down on the titlebar.
b. middle click: double-click, except on the desktop where it would show a list of my most used apps (dynamic or predefined), and on the titlebar it would horizontally maximize the window in question.
c. double click: maximize on the titlebar (I know this one, it's in the window settings, but I need to be able to roll windows without compiz with my mousewheel so I don't have to assign double click to the roll function).
d. win key: show an app launcher similar in functionality to windows' start menu main section (shows a list of app matches while you type).
e. how do I bind a specific key combination to an app launch? (ex: alt+shift+win+a to launch aptana).

6. Where should I put shortcuts to my apps and bash scripts so they're recognized by the app launcher.

7. I have a multimedia keyboard. how can I bind these multimedia keys to launch useful stuf instead of controlling the volume and playback only?

Most of my question probably have easy answers, but since I know very little about linux, I'll be very grateful for your answers. I don't need you to explain to me how to do everything, just point me in the right direction and I'll happily do the research (though fool-proof step by step explanations will be greatly appreciated).

Thanks a lot in advance,

Best regards!

---

### Post by jimmy the saint on 2008-12-18
Way too much there to address individually so I will give some suggestions as to where to begin.

Dual Monitors:  [https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2008-November/006321.html](https://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-devel-discuss/2008-November/006321.html) discusses how to change the dual-monitor mode.

Desktop effects - install the advanced compiz control center.
```
sudo apt-get install ccsm
```
This will give you all kinds of options to play with eye candy.  Look under system>preferences>advanced desktop effects.

System>preferences keyboard shortcuts work for a lot of standard multimedia keys and configuring shourtucts (did for me at least.  There is also a program called keytouch that can do some more advanced configurations, but I find it to be more trouble than it is worth.

As far as the panels (or "docks") you can add, remove and move around all of the applets on there.  right click and select "add to panel" to add something, right click on something for config options (including remove) or select move to move it.  You can add a whole new panel, remove an existing one, drag them around the desktop to have them display elsewhere.  You can also configure them to disappear in the options.

if you install emerald theme manager you can edit all of the actions for windows (double click etc).  To a lesser extent you can modify these settings without emerald by going into system>preferences>windows.

as for quick app launching via typing, you may want to look at gnome-do.  It looks interesting.  

As for learning Linux and Ubuntu, there are hundreds of useful books, but I just started with google.  There are literally thousands of online resources for linux, ubuntu, individual applications and various specific areas of using linux.  Start out with a basic search "learn linux" gives many great resources at the top of the list.  the learn linux project got me going.


Good luck.

---

### Post by tijuana on 2008-12-18
thanks! I'll take a look at those apps/articles then :)

Regards!

---

### Post by tijuana on 2008-12-18
It seems Emerald is an extension for Compiz. Though I haven't tried it yet, I'm assuming Compiz Fusion must be enabled in order to use it. I need to have these mouse gestures even when compiz is disabled.

Regards!

---

### Post by zvacet on 2008-12-19
Read [this.]("http://eu.wiley.com/WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-0470082933.html")

---

