---
title: "9.04 CPU / RAM usage"
date: 2009-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JohnSearle on 2009-04-28
Is anyone else having issues with their CPU and RAM usage on this new release? 

It seems that a good chunk of the time my I have one CPU hovering around 50%, and the second hovering around 100%. On top of that, my RAM usage slowly goes up from the moment I turn the computer on. After a full day of usage my RAM is 100% used, and it starts working on my swap.

I've never had these issues before... just with this new release.

CPU: E7200
RAM: 4GB DDR2 800
MOBO: Gigabyte EP45-DS3L
Video Card: Sapphire Radeon HD 4550

I pretty well only run Amarok 1.4, Geany, Skype, Conky, and Pidgin. 

Any thoughts?

-John

---

### Post by Hellstudios on 2009-04-28
Perhaps You should tune down your system's GUI for more performance?


Go to system >> administration >> system monitor, and look for what's eating way at your resources, then report back to us.

---

### Post by kiwikat on 2009-04-28
I'm not noticing any more resource use on my eee 1000h.  9.04 is running faster than 8.10 did for me too. :)

---

### Post by Hellstudios on 2009-04-28
Yeah my CPU usage hovers over 0 - 1% for me, and my RAM is only being 20% used. :D

---

### Post by Seth_1 on 2009-05-19
Hi John

I have the same problem here.

My CPU is jumping between 25% and 75% most of the time. This happens even when I'm not doing anything specific (besides having Firefox open).
The RAM starts at around 12% and slowly climbs to 85-90% (maybe 5-8% every hour). After that it starts using up my swap space.

I believe it might be a problem with Firefox. It constantly uses about 40-50% CPU according to the sysmonitor-screenlet (it's less according to the gnome system-monitor) and right now, it is already at 1.3 GB RAM. I've been watching/streaming a lot of video's though without restarting FF.
If I restart it, the RAM dropt to 12% and CPU goes down to <10%.

I'm not using compiz fusion or other demanding tasks.

CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo T8100
GPU: ATI HD Mobility 3650
RAM: 3 GB
OS: 9.04 fresh install

---

### Post by ephemerae on 2009-05-26
I'm noticing the exact same symptoms that Seth_1 is noticing. It's definitely something to do with firefox - FF is eating a minimum of 50% (max 100%) of CPU sitting there doing nothing, but goes back down to 12% if I restart it. This never happened pre-jaunty.

Running on a Dell XPS M-170, 2GB RAM, no compiz, all packages up to date.

---

### Post by ephemerae on 2009-05-26
UPDATE: Since I'm naturally suspicious of Flash, I reinstalled the FlashBlock plugin, restarted, and now Firefox is operating normally.

This may work for you too, give it a try. At the very least it may help isolate where the problem lies.

(I think one of the websites I use, probably FaceBook, has a flash applet that interacts badly with the new Firefox. I just tried looking at some Youtube vids as a test and CPU usage returned to normal after watching the videos.)

---

### Post by raymondh on 2009-05-26
Run in terminal

```
top
```

to see what is being processed and give more clues.  Q to quit

regards,

---

