---
title: ".iso use and External Hard Drive (N00b=yes)"
date: 2008-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DoneWithMicro$oft on 2008-09-01
Alright, I'm new, and tired of MS. I bought a Western Digital Passport 250 gig External Hard Drive, and I had originally intended to use it for only large and mobile memory/back-up. Then I started to wonder if I would be able to actually use it as a C:\ drive for a computer (or the equivalent, if you know what I mean) then after some googling later, I decided that I wanted to install Linux (Ubuntu or Sabayon) on it and (assumingly) be able to boot that Ext. HDD. from any usb-ported computer.. here's where the questions come. 

Before I install it on the Ext. HDD, I plan on installing it on an old Win 98 computer, just to see how it works. Then maybe I can do all the Ext. HDD's formatting through there so that I don't risk messing up my standard drive on this computer.

Questions:   (1) If I put Ubuntu on my Ext. HDD, can I still use it as a mass storage device for windows computers? (a necessity)   (2) From my understanding, I would need to add a partition or something in order to keep both MS files and Linux files on the same HD. I have no idea how to do this. I had planned do looking it up later, but if someone has a good link to an idiot-proof walkthrough, it would be much appreciated :)   (3) Would this boot-up (after changing the BIOS if necessary) through any Computer with a USB port?   (4) Is there going to be a major drawback to running an OS through a USB HDD?   (5) ...Is there an important fact I seem to be forgetting?

I've been searching all over the net for ~3 days now, and I still haven't come across a straight answer to these questions, so sorry if its obvious to everyone else! :)

One last kinda major problem.. every time I download or burn an iso file, it doesn't work. I'm burning them as CD images, and I think the problem is that the files are being corrupted during download. (as MsMD5Sum has seemingly confirmed) ...advice? Ive tried downloading both from Bit Torrent and the Release Page on Ubuntu's website.

EDIT: Though I'm not too conerned about it, I can't get DSL to boot from my BIOS. I did everything mentioned in the walkthrough at pen linux's website, but no-go. It works in Qemu though?

---

### Post by sTpny on 2008-09-01
Just do it.. Learn from the experience. You will need an iso that passes the md5 check, but thats all you'll need, then just try it. The install process is pretty easy to follow. I've never tried what you are attempting, but I'm pretty sure it will work, so try it, and then if you get any errors, or if something doesn't work as you want it too, then post a question. If something does go bad, you can always just format again. 

Ohh, and burn at a low speed. 4X is good most times. And verify your disk after burning. Once you have a decent disk, just go for it.

---

### Post by steerguy on 2008-09-01
Also, you don't have to install on the win 98 pc at all if you just want to test. If you have a decently equipped computer and can run the regular cd then there is an option to run the OS without installing anything. That'll give you a demo of it and then you can click the "install" icon on the desktop if you choose to go through with it.

---

### Post by matdombrock on 2008-09-02
hey first off, i would not suggest that you install on the external hdd. its is quite difficult from my experience. Secondly, are you burning the cd right? Try using [burn at once]("http://www.burnatonce.net/downloads/") to burn your cd.

I love to see new people get into linux so if you need any more help feel free to PM me.

---

