---
title: "10.04 won't start after being cloned to ESX"
date: 2013-07-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by VMOS on 2013-07-06
Ok so I've got an ubuntu 10.04 server. At some point in the past a bigger hard drive has been put in and a new partition added with GPT label, this means I can't convert it using the v5 converter. So I use 4.1 (and throw together an esx 4.0 host especially for it, gah)
So the conversion goes ahead, but at the last step it gives me "failed to complete reconfiguration" but now I have an image of the server (I've tried this two ways, having a separate vmdk for the first drive and the added extent, and having a separate vmdk for every partition)
Now when I try to boot this "image" I get "error loading operating system" this isn't really a problem, I just use super grub to boot it and then do update-grub if I get it working.

So I do that and it starts booting up but hangs at mounting stuffs like in the attatched picture.

Of course, the fstab is still pointing to the drives on the physical server, so I've booted with ubuntu live cd (rescue mode won't allow me to start a shell on /dev/sda1/. I've edited the fstab to use /dev/sda1,2 etc, I've got the blkids of the new drives and put them in (I couldn't get the blkid of the swap, so I just reformatted the swap partition) I've tried it with and without swap and with without the partition that was GPT. All with pretty much the same result.

The drives on the original server were ext4 and the conversion seems to have turned them into ext3, I don't really care about that as long as I can get the thing working.

Any suggestions?

Here's what BLKID shows (this is all running via livecd in an ESX console, hence the pictures instead of text)

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/pyDK88i.png[/IMG]

Here's what PARTED shows

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/xiZcWc1.png[/IMG]

Here's what I put in FSTAB on my most recent attempt

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/iE8sM98.png[/IMG]

And here's where it boots to

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/srnGXAC.png[/IMG]

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-07-06
My suggestion? Stop using 10.04, which was released before GPT became available in the market.

---

### Post by VMOS on 2013-07-07
If that was an option, I would have had a new server built and deployed in less time than it took me to write that post. Client wants this particular server moved as is.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2013-07-07
Sometimes clients want things which are not completely rational. My condolences.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2013-07-08
If they were EXT4 devices then edit the fstab file to reflect that.

---

