---
title: "16.04 how to disable s daemon"
date: 2016-08-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by amitaru on 2016-08-13
On a fresh install of 16.04 I installed mpd (Media Player Daemon). It is set up to run as s system daemon, I try to run it as user. I tried to stop and disable with these two commands: "sudo service mpd stop" (and this works, it stops mpd) and "sudo service mpd disable" (and this doesn't work, next power cycle restarts mpd as a daemon again). A friend suggested to use "systemctl" instead of "service" and it was even worse, teh "stop" command didn't even stop the daemon.
Any suggestions ??
Thank you, Alex

---

### Post by mook765 on 2016-08-14
If you want to set up mpd as a user daemon, you may follow the instructions in this links:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MPD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MPD)
[http://crunchbang.org/forums/viewtopic.php?pid=182574](http://crunchbang.org/forums/viewtopic.php?pid=182574)
Greetings from Dr Google...

---

### Post by amitaru on 2016-08-17
Thank you Dr. Google I am very familiar with both links, actually it was the crunchbang blog that I used to try to disable the system daemon. Unfortunately both links are rather old (11.04) and the command "sudo update-rc.d mpd disable" (I made a mistake in my original post, this is the command I used) does not work, i.e. I expect after I issue this command the mpd daemon to NOT be restarted after a power cycle, yet it is restarted. What I am asking is what is the correct command in 16.04 to disable a "system" daemon. Could it be that I stepped into a 16.04 bug ? I probably should browse the 16.04 bugs forums...
Thanks again, Alex

---

### Post by mook765 on 2016-08-18
Dear Alex,
first I want to apologize for the "Dr. Google", I agree that this statement was not really respectful
and i will avoid statements like this in the future.
Now more about the problem...
You tried to disable the service with the command
```
sudo service mpd disable
```
"disable" is not an available option for the 'service'-command. You may check this with the command
```
man service
```
And this does not correspond with the information in the mentioned links, where it is said that you have to disable autostart for the mpd-service with the command
```
sudo update-rc.d mpd disable
```
That made me think that you didn't know about these tutorials...
Please refer to the man pages of this command.
```
man update-rc.d
```
I think this command is still up to date and will work.
I found some related files on my system ( I am on Kubuntu 16.04 ),location off files may differ from distribution to distribution, I dont know which distribution you use.
From file etc/rcS.d/README
> The scripts in this directory whose names begin with an 'S' are
executed once when booting the system, even when booting directly into
single user mode.

The scripts are all symbolic links whose targets are located in
/etc/init.d/ .

To disable a script in this directory, rename it so that it begins
with a 'K' and run 'update-rc.d script defaults' to update the order
using the script dependencies.

For more information see /etc/init.d/README.
From file /etc/init.d/README
>     Configuration of System V init under Debian GNU/Linux

Most Unix versions have a file here that describes how the scripts
in this directory work, and how the links in the /etc/rc?.d/ directories
influence system startup/shutdown.

For Debian, this information is contained in the policy manual, chapter 
"System run levels and init.d scripts".  The Debian Policy Manual is 
available at:

    [http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/#contents](http://www.debian.org/doc/debian-policy/#contents)

The Debian Policy Manual is also available in the Debian package
"debian-policy".  When this package is installed, the policy manual can be
found in directory /usr/share/doc/debian-policy. If you have a browser
installed you can probably read it at

    file://localhost/usr/share/doc/debian-policy/

Some more detailed information can also be found in the files in the
/usr/share/doc/sysv-rc directory.

Debian Policy dictates that /etc/init.d/*.sh scripts must work properly
when sourced.  The following additional rules apply:

* /etc/init.d/*.sh scripts must not rely for their correct functioning
  on their being sourced rather than executed.  That is, they must work
  properly when executed too. They must include "#!/bin/sh" at the top.
  This is useful when running scripts in parallel.

* /etc/init.d/*.sh scripts must conform to the rules for sh scripts as
  spelled out in the Debian policy section entitled "Scripts" (§10.4).

Use the update-rc.d command to create symbolic links in the /etc/rc?.d
as appropriate. See that man page for more details.

All init.d scripts are expected to have a LSB style header documenting
dependencies and default runlevel settings.  The header look like this
(not all fields are required):

### BEGIN INIT INFO
# Provides:          skeleton
# Required-Start:    $remote_fs $syslog
# Required-Stop:     $remote_fs $syslog
# Should-Start:      $portmap
# Should-Stop:       $portmap
# X-Start-Before:    nis
# X-Stop-After:      nis
# Default-Start:     2 3 4 5
# Default-Stop:      0 1 6
# X-Interactive:     true
# Short-Description: Example initscript
# Description:       This file should be used to construct scripts to be
#                    placed in /etc/init.d.
### END INIT INFO

More information on the format is available from insserv(8).  This
information is used to dynamicaly assign sequence numbers to the
boot scripts and to run the scripts in parallel during the boot.
See also /usr/share/doc/insserv/README.Debian.
So all this is a lot to read and leads to more and more information...
The conclusion is to follow exatly the steps in the tutorial.
It is recommended to use 'copy and paste' to put the commands in the terminal, this will avoid misstyping...
Kind regards...
Edit:
I just reread your last post and i see that my comment might be outdated.
But maybe there are some hints in the readme-files which leads you to a solution.
I'll try to find out more and post again when I have something...

---

### Post by mook765 on 2016-08-18
I just installed mpd on my system.
After installing i checked with the command```
service --status-all
```
which services are running.So i found mpd running```

...
...
[ - ]  mountkernfs.sh
[ - ]  mountnfs-bootclean.sh
[ - ]  mountnfs.sh
[ + ]  mpd
[ + ]  network-manager
[ + ]  networking
[ + ]  ondemand
...
...
```
Then i stopped the service mpd with```
sudo service mpd stop
```
Check again if service is stopped```
service --status-all
...
...
[ - ]  mountkernfs.sh
[ - ]  mountnfs-bootclean.sh
[ - ]  mountnfs.sh
[ - ]  mpd
[ + ]  network-manager
[ + ]  networking
[ + ]  ondemand
...
...
```
That looks good, mdp is stopped.
I disabled startup for the service```
sudo update-rc.d mpd disable
```
In the file manager (in my case Dolphin) I can see the changes in these folders: /etc/rc1.d
/etc/rc1.d
/etc/rc2.d
/etc/rc3.d
/etc/rc4.d
/etc/rc5.d
/etc/rc6.d
In each folder is a link named "K01mpd".
Review the output off the readme-files in my last post, there was something about renaming these links...

Reboot...
Systen booted up, check again if mpd is running or not```
service --status-all
...
...
[ - ]  mountkernfs.sh
[ - ]  mountnfs-bootclean.sh
[ - ]  mountnfs.sh
[ - ]  mpd
[ + ]  network-manager
[ + ]  networking
[ + ]  ondemand
...
...
```
As I can see, mpd was not started during boot, the command "sudo update-rc.d mpd disable" works!!!
If this doesn't work on your system then i don't know why...
My system is a fresh install, not upgraded from a former release.
There are more ways to manage services, so one helpful link might be this one:
[http://askubuntu.com/questions/19320/how-to-enable-or-disable-services/20347#20347](http://askubuntu.com/questions/19320/how-to-enable-or-disable-services/20347#20347)

---

