---
title: "13.10 Freezes on Resume from Suspend"
date: 2013-12-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dan Again on 2013-12-09
My system is set up in BIOS for S3 suspend (suspend to ROM) and to wake when the mouse is moved. When I move the mouse to wake it up, though, it freezes after 5 or 10 seconds of activity. In particular, I am using Gnome, and it seems like the computer freezes the first time I fly out to view the system tray (not sure if I'm 100% using the right terminology there, but hopefully you get the point). I tried changing the suspend behavior to S1, but then the computer just crashed on wake from suspend.

---

### Post by Dan Again on 2013-12-16
Bump.

---

### Post by Dan Again on 2013-12-24
Re-bump.

---

### Post by Toz on 2013-12-24
Lets get some more information and see if there is something obvious going on.

1. What is the make and model of your computer?

2. Can we see the dmesg log file of this computer? Open a terminal window, run the following command, and post back the link that is generated:
```
pastebinit /var/log/dmesg
```

3. Lets also have a look at your suspend log file:
```
pastebinit /var/log/pm-suspend.log
```

4. And your syslog might be helpful. Do this right after you recover from a resume attempt:
```
pastebinit /var/log/syslog
```

And finally, can you define "freeze" a little better? 
- Does the mouse just stop moving? 
- Any keyboard control? 
- Is the image still up on the screen? 
- Can you go to another virtual terminal (Ctrl+Alt+F1)?
- And if so, can you return to the gui terminal (Ctrl+Alt+F7)?
- And are you able to get control again?

---

### Post by Dan Again on 2013-12-27
[LIST=1]
[*]The computer is one that I built myself. It's a Biostar box that came with the motherboard. The CPU is an Intel i3.
[*][http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645518/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645518/)
[*][http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645522/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645522/)
[*][http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645524/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645524/)
[*]Generally, I can still see the desktop, etc, but I'm not able to interact with the computer at all (keyboard, mouse, etc). However, when I tried to resume from suspend just now, all I saw was a black screen with the mouse pointer...no desktop and no way to interact with the computer. In my experience, the only way I've been able to regain control is to hard-restart the computer by holding down the power button and then turning it back on.
[/LIST]

Thanks!

---

### Post by Toz on 2013-12-27
> **Dan Again said:**
> 
The computer is one that I built myself. It's a Biostar box that came with the motherboard. The CPU is an Intel i3.
Okay thanks.
> [http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645518/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645518/)
A couple if items noticed from the dmesg log file:
[LIST=1]
[*]It looks like you are using a usb keyboard and mouse. If this is so, can you try with a wired keyboard and mouse to rule out that its an issue with the USB ports not recovering properly on resume?
[*]You have this message:
> [   18.754731] [drm] Wrong MCH_SSKPD value: 0x16040307
[   18.754734] [drm] This can cause pipe underruns and display issues.
[   18.754734] [drm] Please upgrade your BIOS to fix this.
...if you search google for "Wrong MCH_SSKPD value", you'll see it seems to be related to graphics corruption & suspend/resume. You may be suffering from this bug. You could try to see if there is a bios update for your motherboard. From what I've been able to dig up, this was fixed in the kernel version you are using, so may be there is a regression? You may want to try upgrading the kernel to a more recent one if the bios update doesn't fix things.
[*]
[/LIST]
> [http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645522/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645522/)
From your /var/log/pm-suspend.log file, I see instances of unsuccessful suspend/resumes, but nothing glaringly standing out. For the most part, the "act" of suspend and resume works.
> [http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645524/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/6645524/)
From your syslog, I see this same message again during the suspend/resume cycle:
> Dec 26 18:54:17 MediaCenter kernel: [133045.097096] [drm] Wrong MCH_SSKPD value: 0x16040307
Dec 26 18:54:17 MediaCenter kernel: [133045.097097] [drm] This can cause pipe underruns and display issues.
Dec 26 18:54:17 MediaCenter kernel: [133045.097097] [drm] Please upgrade your BIOS to fix this.
Dec 26 18:54:17 MediaCenter kernel: [133045.390068] i915: No ACPI video bus found




Can you try the following:
1. Instead of logging in, go to the tet console (Ctrl+Alt+F1) and log in there. Then try running a manual suspend/resume:
```
sudo pm-suspend
```
...and see if it resumes properly.

2. Try with a wired keyboard/mouse to see if USB is not being properly resumed (from the gui).

3. See if there is a bios update available for your system.

---

