---
title: ".exe files"
date: 2009-08-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by frog3764 on 2009-08-11
I download many zip files that have an executable file to open and run.  What do I use in Ubuntu to open these up?  All help is appreciated.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-08-11
.exe files are for windows, not linux, but you may be able to use them with wine.

---

### Post by WRDN on 2009-08-11
As merlinus mentioned, you can use WINE (available in the repositories). Note that, **W**INE **I**s **N**ot an **E**mulator, rather, it provides libraries to allow Windows programs to run. It is always improving, but don't be suprised if a complex program with many dependencies does not run under WINE.

---

### Post by geirha on 2009-08-11
.exe files are windows binaries, and hey are incompatible with linux. Some windows program are runnable with wine though, so you might want to take a look at that: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wine](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Wine)

However, for the most part, there are equivalent programs for linux in the Ubuntu repositories. For information on how to search for and install such programs, see the chapter on adding and removing software at [https://help.ubuntu.com/](https://help.ubuntu.com/)

---

### Post by michy99 on 2009-08-11
An .exe can also be a self-extracting zip file. It is made to extract on systems which do not have extracting software installed. If that is what you have, you should be able to open it with Archive Manager.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2009-08-11
> **michy99 said:**
> An .exe can also be a self-extracting zip file. It is made to extract on systems which do not have extracting software installed. If that is what you have, you should be able to open it with Archive Manager.

I was about to add that myself; I've opened a lot of .exe files with Archive Manager.

:guitar:

---

### Post by pedro3005 on 2009-08-11
If they came on ZIP files they probably arent self-extracting, since what good would that make? lol

---

### Post by michy99 on 2009-08-11
> **pedro3005 said:**
> If they came on ZIP files they probably arent self-extracting, since what good would that make? lol

Like I said, a self-extracting zip file can be extracted even if you don't have zip or unzip installed.

---

### Post by nhasian on 2009-08-16
a self extracted zip file will *always* end with .exe and only self extracts in windows.  Thats also a popular way to propogate viruses (or is virii) in the windows world.  since zip is directly supported by the OS since windows xp there is no reason to use self extracting zip files.  anyway, i'm off point here.

I wanted to say many people who first start using linux are in the mindset like "how can I make this windows program run in linux" when they should be asking "what linux app will get the job done similar to the one in windows"

> **michy99 said:**
> Like I said, a self-extracting zip file can be extracted even if you don't have zip or unzip installed.

---

### Post by mrbiggbrain on 2009-08-16
> **nhasian said:**
> a self extracted zip file will *always* end with .exe and only self extracts in windows.  Thats also a popular way to propogate viruses (or is virii) in the windows world.  since zip is directly supported by the OS since windows xp there is no reason to use self extracting zip files.  anyway, i'm off point here.

I wanted to say many people who first start using linux are in the mindset like "how can I make this windows program run in linux" when they should be asking "what linux app will get the job done similar to the one in windows"

But really it should be more, how can i contribute to the community and add features i miss from my windows programs to linux programs...

but i'm a optimist

---

