---
title: "20.04 xbindkeys not working"
date: 2020-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pderocco on 2020-12-28
I've just recently upgraded from 16.04 (through 18.04) to 20.04, so I could use devices supported by the newer kernel. I used to have the middle mouse button configured to be equivalent to double left click, but it's not doing that any more. Now the middle mouse button acts like it's starting a drag, which continues until I press the right mouse button.

After lots of googling and trying stuff out, I'm still stuck. I've installed xautomation, xbindkeys, xdotool, and gnome-tweak-tool. I've created an .xbindkeysrc file containing

```
"xdotool click --repeat 2 1"
b:2
```

and started xbindkeys. When I type xbindkeys -s, it correctly shows that assignment, but it doesn't work. If I reassign it to do something more dramatic, like start a program, it doesn't do that either. However, if I assign something to a keyboard combination, as opposed to a mouse button, then it works.

Is this supposed to work in 20.04? Where should I look for something interfering with mouse interception? I don't remember how I got 16.04 to do this function five years ago, so it's possible that there's something left over from that that's screwing this up. Any ideas?

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2020-12-28
The middle click is used as an alternative copy paste function in unix/linux. That's why it's not commonly used in  this maner.

But try first before changing anything.
Open Gnome Tweaks and navigate to Keyboard & Mouse and turn of the switch for Middle Click Paste.
Or by terminal:
```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface gtk-enable-primary-paste false
```

To re-enable the middle mouse button click paste run:

```
gsettings set org.gnome.desktop.interface gtk-enable-primary-paste true
```
Also be sure to have Tap to Click enabled.

---

### Post by pderocco on 2020-12-28
> **1fallen said:**
> The middle click is used as an alternative copy paste function in unix/linux. That's why it's not commonly used in  this maner.
But try first before changing anything.
Open Gnome Tweaks and navigate to Keyboard & Mouse and turn of the switch for Middle Click Paste.

Thanks, but I've already tried that. It behaves the same whether that's on or off, and it's not assigned to Middle Click Paste, but to a different function entirely.

It looks like the issue is that I'm running Ubuntu in VirtualBox under Windows, and the MS mouse driver is already configured to translate a middle press into a left double click, but that's not getting reflected into the VM properly. Fortunately, the driver supports per-app settings, so when I configure middle press to be middle press when talking to a VirtualBox VM, then I don't see this behavior.

But I'm still not getting what I want. If I don't program xbindkeys to remap the middle mouse button, and I use xev to monitor the events, a middle press yields a ButtonPress event for button 2, and the release yields a ButtonRelease, so the events are coming in correctly now. But when I add the remapping of that button, a press yields:
```
LeaveNotify event, serial 37, synthetic NO, window 0x4600001,
    root 0x3ac, subw 0x0, time 27415960, (115,78), root:(171,739),
    mode NotifyGrab, detail NotifyAncestor, same_screen YES,
    focus YES, state 512
```
and a release yields:
```
EnterNotify event, serial 37, synthetic NO, window 0x4600001,
    root 0x3ac, subw 0x0, time 27416585, (115,78), root:(171,739),
    mode NotifyUngrab, detail NotifyAncestor, same_screen YES,
    focus YES, state 0

KeymapNotify event, serial 37, synthetic NO, window 0x0,
    keys:  4294967212 0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   
           0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0   0
```

(Middle Click Paste still has no effect.) If I run xev, hover the mouse over it's little test window, and then type the "xdotool click --repeat 2 1" command in a terminal window, sure enough, I get a ButtonPress, ButtonRelease, ButtonPress, ButtonRelease sequence. But when xbindkey runs it, I get those strange events shown above.

One last clue: xbindkey -v shows this warning: "Please verify that there is not another program running which captures one of the keys captured by xbindkeys. It seems that there is a conflict, and xbindkeys can't grab all the keys defined in its configuration file." 
The only other binding is its built-in control+shift+q, which works fine. It doesn't show this if my middle click reassignment isn't in the .xbindkeyrc file, so that's the one that's conflicting. But with what? Maybe it can't "grab" it and do what I want, but it's sure changing its behavior.

---

