---
title: "Unable to mount second hard drive."
date: 2007-12-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jfjunior on 2007-12-22
Hi everyone,

Just wondering if someone would kindly help me with this issue. I've read several postings on this subject and tried all the suggestions without any results. For sure I'm doing something wrong, but I cannot figure out what! :)

I've installed Ubuntu 7.10 recently into a second PC at home and I've never been able to mount my second hard drive where I used to backup my previous Windows XP data. This second hard drive is NTFS. 

I've already created a "/windows" folder to mount the drive, but despite all my attempts I've been unable to do it so.

This is the error message I get when I ran "sudo mount -a"

*******************************
mount: wrong fs type, bad option, bad superblock on /dev/sdb1,
       missing codepage or helper program, or other error
       In some cases useful info is found in syslog - try
       dmesg | tail  or so

NTFS signature is missing.
Failed to mount '/dev/sdb1': Invalid argument
The device '/dev/sdb1' doesn't have a valid NTFS.
Maybe you selected the wrong device? Or the whole disk instead of a
partition (e.g. /dev/hda, not /dev/hda1)? Or the other way around?


*******************************
Here is my fdisk -l 

Disk /dev/sda: 40.0 GB, 40016019456 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 4865 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x2c352c34

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1        4677    37567971   83  Linux
/dev/sda2            4678        4865     1510110    5  Extended
/dev/sda5            4678        4865     1510078+  82  Linux swap / Solaris

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1        1023     8217243   55  EZ-Drive

*******************************
and here is my fstab

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0

# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=771c7be5-9720-4e7b-9f28-a7bef0915bbd / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=de5882a5-5058-4ce7-8658-8fc52f5653f9 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0 0
/dev/sdb1 /media/sdb vfat defaults,umask=000 0 0

# Entry for /dev/sdb :
/dev/sdb1 /windows ntfs nls=utf8,umask=0222 0 0

*******************************

Thank you very much everyone! 

PS: I'm on my way to convert all my XP machines into Ubuntu. Of my three machines at home two are already running Ubuntu 7.10. The only reason I've not converted my last machine yet is because I cannot find a Linux driver for my Canon 9900F scanner. 

Regards.

---

### Post by TidusBlade on 2007-12-22
Linux cant mount NTFS just like that I think, might wanna try using ntfs-3g or AKA NTFS Configuration tool in the Ubuntu repos. Just check mount internal devices and it should do it's magic ;)
As for the poll, the only thing stopping me would be gaming, a hardcore gamer trying to fully switch to Linux can be really hard...

---

### Post by jfjunior on 2007-12-22
> **TidusBlade said:**
> Linux cant mount NTFS just like that I think, might wanna try using ntfs-3g or AKA NTFS Configuration tool in the Ubuntu repos. Just check mount internal devices and it should do it's magic ;)
As for the poll, the only thing stopping me would be gaming, a hardcore gamer trying to fully switch to Linux can be really hard...

Hi TidusBlade,

I actually just tried ntfs-config and I got an error message as follows:
"NTFS Signature is missing. Failed to mount '/dev/sdb1' invalid argument. THe device /dev/sdb1 does n't have a valid NTFS. Maybe you selected the wrong device? Or the whole disk instead of a partition."

I've attached the screen capture of the error for better description.

Thanks a lot for your reply.

Jay

---

### Post by TidusBlade on 2007-12-22
Happened to me once, I think you have to shut down windows properly so it can mount, I remember shutting it down using the restart button on my CPU, which isint exactly proper, and it wouldnt ount.

---

### Post by jfjunior on 2007-12-22
hmmm...that won't work as I don't have Windows on that machine, but only Ubuntu 7.10. I've completely removed Windows from my first hard drive and now I cannot mount the 2nd one. Thanks

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2007-12-22
> Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00000000

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1   *           1        1023     8217243   55  EZ-Drivethe partition your trying to mount is not NTFS it's an "EZ-Drive" file system which I've never seen before. apparently it's a drive overlay created from a Maxtor disk utility to overcome drive space limitations on older hardware. 

this can be fixed by adding "sdb=remap" (where sdb is the drive your trying to mount)at the end of your kernel line in your /boot/grub/menu.lst file and you should be good to go. then i would recommend reformatting to a native or at least normal files system

---

### Post by jfjunior on 2007-12-22
Thanks for the reply Ocxic, but it does not look it worked for me. Being new to Linux I think I may have done something wrong, again! :) 

Ive copied part of my menu.1st file where I added the "sdb=remap" argument, I've also tried with "sdb1=remap". Can you please let me know if I did it right? I did reboot the machine after saving the file after each change to no avail.

title		Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root		(hd0,0)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=771c7be5-9720-4e7b-9f28-a7bef0915bbd ro quiet splash sdb=remap
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet

---

### Post by Ocxic on 2007-12-22
unfortunately I can't find any more info on this,, but I keep getting  the same general info about the remap thing, sorry i couldn't help anymore.. try using the UUID for the drive instead of sdb, just a thought

---

### Post by Nunu on 2007-12-22
> **TidusBlade said:**
> Linux cant mount NTFS just like that I think, might wanna try using ntfs-3g or AKA NTFS Configuration tool in the Ubuntu repos. Just check mount internal devices and it should do it's magic ;)
As for the poll, the only thing stopping me would be gaming, a hardcore gamer trying to fully switch to Linux can be really hard...

Worked for me. Unfortunately i have to duel boot my machine so my wife can get to winslows, All my music is stored on one of the NTFS partitions on my machine. I installed ntfs-3g and am I am enjoying my music on Rhythmbox  as I type this reply up. :)

---

### Post by glasswalkerny on 2007-12-22
found this on the ez-drive partition type

```
55 EZ-Drive
EZ-Drive is another disk manager (by MicroHouse, 1992). 
Linux kernel versions older than 1.3.29 do not coexist with EZD. 
(On 990323 MicroHouse International was acquired by EarthWeb; 
MicroHouse Solutions split off and changed its name into StorageSoft.
MicroHouse Development split off and changed its name into ImageCast. 
It is StorageSoft that now markets EZDrive and DrivePro.)

```

---

### Post by jfjunior on 2007-12-22
Thanks everyone for replying. I  think I'm close to get this issue resolved. Ocxic called my attention to the fact that the drive appears as EZ-Drive, which didn't make much sense to me either. So I created a  Gparted boot cd which reported that partition as unreadable, which scared me a little, since I used it to backup my data on the network. 

Next I booted the machine with my ERD Commander 2005 cd and I was able to read my partition perfectly. So I used the ERD Commander File Sharing tool to enable sharing on the network. I'm now in the process of copying the data from this partition to my Windows machine. After that is complete I will use the Gparted boot cd to delete and create a new NTFS partition on this drive. Hopefully I can get rid of the Ez-Drive type and get it to work. 

I will post back with the results. 

cheers.

---

### Post by jfjunior on 2007-12-23
This issue has been resolved. This is what I've done:

1 - Booted Linux machine with Gparted LiveCD -> [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=115843&package_id=173828](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=115843&package_id=173828) which indicated me a problem with the second hard drive partition.

2 - Booted Linux machine with my ERD Commander 2005 CD -> [http://www.microsoft.com/systemcenter/winternals.mspx#erdcommander2005](http://www.microsoft.com/systemcenter/winternals.mspx#erdcommander2005) Interesting enought ERD could see and read my data successfully. 

3 - Used the ERD Commander to share the drive on my network and copied all my xp data backup to my Windows machine. It took a long time to copy almost 100Gb of data.

4 - Booted Linux Machine with Gparted LiveCD again and re-partitioned and re-formatted the drive with NTFS.

5 - Booted in the LInux OS, checked my /etc/fstab fle again following this handy guide: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/mountwindows)

6 - Ran my Ubuntu NTFS configuration tool, which in turn installed and configured the Linux and Windows sharing utilities, including SAMBA.

Confirmed the drive is now fully accessible and shared on my network. 

cheers...

---

