---
title: "14.04 Login Issue-Maybe I should post this here in general help?"
date: 2015-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Irish1 on 2015-07-12
**I'm not too sure if I should be posting this here or in the Desktop Environment section.  Sorry for the double post, I'm at the end of my rope**

I have looked high and low for a post and solution similar to what I am experiencing and have started a new thread as a last resort.

When I start up Ubuntu 14.04 the login screen appears for one second and then my desktop image quickly appears with the Ubuntu logo in the center of the monitor and nothing else and there is nothing I can do but press CRTL+ALT+F1. I can login in that way and enter commands and have tried updating and upgrading, but nothing seems to work. Twice I've been able to get to the login in screen by pressing enter a bunch of times, but this hasn't been working for the last couple of days. I have tried purging Cinnamon as I thought that might be the issue and have installed Bumblebee and have have also tried installing session and unity all to no avail.

I hadn't used Ubuntu in a few months as my wife was using W7 on the other hard-drive, but when I tried to get back in this happened. I thought I was just so far behind in updates or something that this was the result, but have removed mint-Cinnamon and am now back at a simple 14.04 which is fine, I'd just like to access Ubuntu again. I do not have Navidia installed, I think I have AMD and/or NCH drivers installed.

Any help would be appreciated or else I will just try reinstalling 14.04 or try Mint.

Thanks for any and all suggestions.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2015-07-12
You've been here awhile so you should be aware that we don't post duplicates here and that they are invariably:

*Thread closed*.

See [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2286526"). I have also bumped your open thread by moving it to ***General Help***.

Please be patient. We are all volunteers here and if someone can help they will. We span many time zones and the person who can help you maybe hasn't arrived yet. 

If your thread sees no action for >12 hours, simply post 'bump' to the thread. That will lift it to the top of the new posts list and into view again. If you want your thread moved, use the 'Report Post' button in the first post of the thread and staff will deal with it.

Good luck.

---

