---
title: "13.10 - Keyboard Layout wrong after Update to 13.10"
date: 2013-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RickJC on 2013-10-30
Hi All,

After upgrading my laptop from 13.04 to 13.10 the keyboard layout is wrong. When I view the keyboard layout chart it says "English (UK)" however it's missing keys (hash and pipe) and it seems more the US layout than UK ( @ and " wrong way around).

I thouht i got round this by changing the layout to US then changing back to UK which seemed to work, however once i reboot the laptop it does the same thing again.

Anyone had this problem? Or any ideas on how to solve this?

My laptop is a HP EliteBook 8560p.

Regards,

Rick

---

### Post by Horadranin on 2013-10-30
I'm also having this problem, except my native language is pt_br.

Also I filled the bug #1246272 for gnome-control-center (a package is mandatory to ubuntu-bug)

---

### Post by RickJC on 2013-10-31
No one able to provide any help on this? No one else had/seen this problem?

Rick

---

### Post by adami on 2013-11-03
Me also.

It shows 'Eng UK', but is actaully US.

When I click on UK it returns to UK.

This happens every time I reboot and sometimes after sleep.

---

### Post by Stardog on 2013-11-04
I have the same problem with mine. Anyone heard any news about this problem?

Mine is an Asus k52f.

---

### Post by RickJC on 2013-11-05
> **Stardog said:**
> I have the same problem with mine. Anyone heard any news about this problem?

Mine is an Asus k52f.

Hi,

Mine sorted itself out with the latest updates so I recommend doing an update and rebooting.

Rick

---

### Post by gratzimilian on 2013-11-30
Same issue on Dell Latitude E6530. UK keyboard selected, Keyboard Layout Chart is correct, but " and @ are the wrong way round. All latest updates installed.

---

### Post by Andy D on 2014-02-03
I've recently started getting the same problem on 13.10 viz on booting into Ubuntu, keyboard layout applet says English (UK) but " and @ are wrong way round, for example. Change to English (US) then back to English (UK) and it's now OK - but it's a pain doing this every time.

I've removed English (US) as an option and that appears to have solved it - go into System settings/Keyboard/Layout settings.

---

### Post by gren12345 on 2014-02-03
I had this exact same issue on a Lenovo B560 laptop following an update to Ubuntu 13.10. As suggested earlier in this thread I remove En-US from Keyboard > Layout Setting just leaving En-UK, rebooted but it did not fix it. I then did an update which included a kernel update (according to uname i'm now on 3.11.0-15-generic), rebooted and the keyboard layout is now correct.

---

### Post by andy-pcpki on 2014-04-28
I still have the problem in 14.04

Andrew

---

### Post by marcus-nyahoe-k on 2014-07-24
I don't know if this is still a problem, but there is a bug report here:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/console-setup/+bug/1310445](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/console-setup/+bug/1310445)

Within this it mentions running ibus-setup from the terminal and selecting Use System Keyboard Layout from the Advanced tab. It worked for me.

---

