---
title: "9.? and 10.04 and both freeze"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by IWC316 on 2010-05-01
In the past I installed 9.? and it would freeze after around 20 seconds. I came to the forums and got ideas on how to fix it but never did. I uninstalled and called it quits. So the IT guy at work said the 10.04 was out. So I thought heck lets give it another try. I did the windows installer thing and all seemed well. I started trying to find where to get it to fit the screen because the left was just off the screen. I have this computer on the HDTV. I think I was messing around about 5 min. and boom, it froze just like with 9.? Just when I thought I was going to like it! So any way I want it to work, so pleas help me out! I am doing this on a Compaq desktop with duel core processor, 1gig o ram, 160 gig HDD, and duel booting vista basic. I will give more details if needed. I just want to get this to work because I am debating using it on the new net book.

---

### Post by BlackGrapes on 2010-05-01
Same problem here, with both 9.1 and 10.04.
Looking for solutions...

---

### Post by IWC316 on 2010-05-01
hey are you using a wireless usb mouse and keyboard?  It seems they brought that up last time.

---

### Post by BlackGrapes on 2010-05-01
> **IWC316 said:**
> hey are you using a wireless usb mouse and keyboard?  It seems they brought that up last time.
Nope!
I even didn't find it's reason and solution. Now I am tired to search again for 10.04. Thinking of shifting to another distro...

---

