---
title: "8.04 dissapears from grub"
date: 2008-09-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by josejad on 2008-09-17
Hi everybody:

I had installed ubuntu 7.10 and windows vista in my laptop. Ubuntu was updated to 8.04 so in grub I had 8.04, 7.10 and Vista. 8.04 booted up right but 7.10 doesn't boot, I got errors.
I installed windows XP over vista, so I lost grub. I recover it with the Super Grub Disk, but it just found the 7.10 installation, not the 8.04. Now I get grub with the old options, just like before 7.10 was updated to 8.04.
Any idea about how can get it back?

Thanks in advance,

---

### Post by IamReck on 2008-09-17
You need to tell us what errors you are getting, it would also help if you copied and pasted your GRUB menu in here.

---

### Post by josejad on 2008-09-17
Hi:

Here you have my grub. The backup copy is the same, that's why I couldn't restore the 8.04 image

[I]"title		Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=07a75da6-1041-4baa-8ac7-2c7310d54e49 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 7.10, kernel 2.6.22-14-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.22-14-generic root=UUID=07a75da6-1041-4baa-8ac7-2c7310d54e49 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.22-14-generic

title		Ubuntu 7.10, memtest86+
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/memtest86+.bin
quiet

### END DEBIAN AUTOMAGIC KERNELS LIST

# This is a divider, added to separate the menu items below from the Debian
# ones.
title		Other operating systems:
root


# This entry automatically added by the Debian installer for a non-linux OS
# on /dev/sda1
title		Windows Vista/Longhorn (loader)
root		(hd0,0)
savedefault
makeactive
chainloader	+1"[/I]

When 7.10 starts, the screen get black and, if you press a key after a while the error you get is:
[I]kinit: no resume imae, doing normal boot...
Ubuntu 7.10 machine_name-ubuntu tty1[/I]

But this happens since I upgrade to 8.04, my problem is I can't get 8.04 back :-(

Thanks again

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-09-17
Add the following to the menu.lst```
title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=07a75da6-1041-4baa-8ac7-2c7310d54e49 ro quiet splash
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
quiet

title		Ubuntu 8.04.1, kernel 2.6.24-16-generic (recovery mode)
root		(hd0,1)
kernel		/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.24-16-generic root=UUID=07a75da6-1041-4baa-8ac7-2c7310d54e49 ro single
initrd		/boot/initrd.img-2.6.24-16-generic
```
Then check in Synaptic whether 2.6.24-19 is already installed and alter as you need.

---

### Post by josejad on 2008-09-17
I get a "file not exist" message. I've searched inside the boot dir an I just have the 2.6.22-14 files... I think I had the 2.6.24-16 ones, but I can't see them.

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-09-17
Have you checked whether the UUID you are using in your menu.lst for your Ubuntu partition is correct? Try:
```
sudo blkid
```
And compare the UUID of partition sda2 with the UUID in your menu.lst:
```
07a75da6-1041-4baa-8ac7-2c7310d54e49
```
If that isn't the issue, then please post:
```
sudo fdisk -lu
```

---

### Post by josejad on 2008-09-18
Hi again:

the UUID is rigth :-(

fdisk -lu:

```

Device       Boot    Blocks     Id   System
/dev/sda1    *       73505376   7    HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2            19535040   83   Linux
/dev/sda3            3486105    82   Linux swap / solaris
/dev/sda4            1156680     5    Extended
/dev/sda5            1156648+   82   Linux swap /solaris


```

Thx

---

### Post by northern lights on 2008-09-18
> **josejad said:**
> fdisk -lu:

```
Device       Boot    Blocks     Id   System
/dev/sda1    *       73505376   7    HPFS/NTFS
*/dev/[I]sda2*            19535040   83   Linux[/I]
/dev/sda3            3486105    82   Linux swap / solaris
/dev/sda4            1156680     5    Extended
/dev/sda5            1156648+   82   Linux swap /solaris
```
sda2 is (hd0,1) in GRUB syntax also. Plus there is but one Linux partition. Why you'd have two swapspaces is trifling, though.
It appears a reinstall might just be the quickest solution. Any data loss in case? How about booting from the LiveCD and backing up first?

---

### Post by josejad on 2008-09-18
Hi:
Yes, after a few answers, I was thinking that reinstall can be the quickest solution too.
No problem with data, just configuration, but it's not the end of the world for me.
Thanks everybody if no other solutions in a few hours.

See you soon

---

