---
title: "11.04 Minimal Install...Advice?"
date: 2011-05-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-27
Thinking of doing a minimal install but I'm kinda confused. Does an install from the mini iso do all the usual updating so that all my hardware works on first boot, and give me the normal stuff like compiz, synaptec, calculator and such without forcing me to install unity and ubuntu one and all the other bloat?

Will it walk me through installing firefox4 and the desktop environment, file manager, and window managers etc of my choice?

What else will I need to know? Are there any tutorials made for 11.04 because the only minimal install tutorial I've seen was older than 10.04.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-27
Didn't we answer this question 24 hours ago?  You are the same user, correct???

---

### Post by LordNeo on 2011-05-27
Nope, minimal means "what you need" not "what you think you need".
It will install a basic command line interface, with networking.
More than enought to install any application you may need (like a Graphical Interface).

Best regards

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-27
No, nobody did. I was told to uninstall things. This is a thread about how to best go about a minimal install given my needs, hopefully nobody derails it too.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-27
No, we posted instructions on how to use an alternative installation disc of Ubuntu and provided you with this link:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD)

If you keep asking the same questions over and over, you will be reported.

---

### Post by LordNeo on 2011-05-27
I'm still plenty of patience, so before you waste your time installing, compiling and stuff let's get into the basics...

What do you want from the computer and what kind of applications do you want to use?

What is the general use of your computer?

Will be installed as the only OS?

How many users will have? Does it need some privacy from one user to another?

Best regards

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-27
> **linuxinstalledfromhdd said:**
> No, we posted instructions on how to use an alternative installation disc of Ubuntu and provided you with this link:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/MinimalCD)

If you keep asking the same questions over and over, you will be reported.
You're not being helpful I should report you.

The first thing on that page is a warning that it's been out of date since 10.04. I read most of it and much of several of the links at the bottom. One of the pages says CLI install of 11.04 from a minimal CD doesn't even work...

> **LordNeo said:**
> I'm still plenty of patience, so before you  waste your time installing, compiling and stuff let's get into the  basics...

What do you want from the computer and what kind of applications do you want to use?

What is the general use of your computer?

Will be installed as the only OS?

How many users will have? Does it need some privacy from one user to another?

Best regards
Thanks again man. I'm just trying to get sort of a tailored install here without pissing everyone off.

I want to be able to browse the internet, for the most part. But I want to know in the back of my mind that I also have an extremely powerful machine should I decide to take advantage of it. I have XP and 7 on 2 other drives and they can do everything I need so it's not as much about what I want out of the computer as the specific experience I'm trying to get out Linux. Simply put, Ubuntu is what I need, it's bloat is what I don't.

Yes, I intend for Ubuntu to be the only OS on this drive.

My wife and I will be the only ones using it, no security from each other is needed. I think I can handle most of my needs with gksu nautilus so a perm-root account won't be necessary as I had thought before.

---

### Post by Thewhistlingwind on 2011-05-27
AFAIK. The mini ISO will give you a networked root prompt. From there, using the repositories and built in commands your expected to build a full system on your own.

And yes, I'm pretty sure that is the most "unbloated" you can go with Ubuntu. If it's not good enough, you may want to compile your own distro.

---

### Post by LordNeo on 2011-05-27
Ok, then i would advice you to start with an Xubuntu install (because it doesn't install gnome-unity-etcetera).
Then you can decide wich Graphical enviroment use, either Unity, Gnome, KDE or whatever you please (maybe you even want to keep the xcfe).
That is easily done by using one of the following commands:

sudo apt-get install gnome-desktop

sudo apt-get install unity

sudo apt-get install unity-2d

sudo apt-get install kubuntu-desktop

Then in the login screen (or in the login screen setup utility) you can choose your default desktop and later you can delete the old one ("sudo apt-get remove xubuntu-desktop" for example).

I advice you to then choose your browser. You have literally dozens of choices, from firefox to midori. Install a bunch, try them and then uninstall the ones you don't like.

We can keep going for a long time, if you want you can PM me and add me to msn/yahoomsg

Best regards

EDIT: I would advice going with minimal or server install, but setting the desktop manager and desktop enviroment can get messy and i want to save you the most effort i can

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-27
> **.psd said:**
> You're not being helpful I should report you.


Go for it.  I've got a report here all written up and ready to submit.  Repetitively asking the same questions for several days, and spamming a help group and wasting bandwidth is against the rules. 

I have plenty of patience, but I don't like users who think they are above the rules of this group, or are just generally arrogant, rude or insulting to other users either.  We don't need that here. 

You have been noticed.

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-27
@LordNeo, Ya I was looking at xfce, and seriously considering installing it alongside gnome on a minimal install. Not looking to go with a full install of any release any more, assuming I can gather enough info to complete a minimal install successfully (from what I understand, I just need the OS install/update and a desktop environment and a window manager to start with).

I'd like to chat or something with you beforehand but I just have a phone or like facebook or something. PM me about getting in touch if you want to help on a minimal install, just to get internet access and a desktop environment so I'm not completely lost, then I can start a thread here about where to go from there, if necessary.

@whistlingwind, Yup I've all but settled on a minimal 11.04 install. I would love to "compile" my own 11.04, I would keep everything but the bloat and it's dependencies, but that sounds like something years beyond my level.

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-27
Mini iso burned and I'm ready to start over fresh. Anyone who has installed 11.04 from a minimal install in recent memory:

What are the commands I will need to know in order to arrive at a working desktop (gnome, and maybe xfce)?

Starting the install now, I'll check this thread on my phone during install. Thanks in advance ;)

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-05-27
How minimal ?

```
sudo apt-get install openbox
```

If you want gnome , kde, or xfce, install gnome/kde/xfce and not ubuntu-desktop ./ kubuntu-desktop / xubuntu-desktop.

The -desktop will pull in all the bloat.

You will learn very fast what you need from there. fonts ? additional applications ? etc.

Use apt-cache search or install synaptic and search in synaptic.

As it is a minimal install, without the bloat, only you can decide what you want to install.

Also use google ;)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems)

If you want to try alternates, take a look at zenix

[http://zenix-os.net/screenshots.html](http://zenix-os.net/screenshots.html)

Or crunchbang, or slitaz, or tinycore , or arch linux ...

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-28
Just my luck, the install can't connect to a network:

Network autoconfiguration failed

Took me a week to learn that the minimal is what I need, and to settle on Ubuntu because it can supposedly be set up wirelessly. I'm pretty dissapointed I mean I have two network cards, one built in to the mobo and an aftermarket one plugged in. I've never had a problem with them through XP, VIsta, 7, and even Ubuntu 11.04, but the minimal install doesn't seem to like the former and I don't know how to make it use the latter.

Been reading for the last several hours and I think it has to do with trying to install 64bit Ubuntu while my motherboard has a realtek 8111 ethernet card (aka rtl8111 or something, the whole thing is quite confusing to me).

But also plugged in is my netgear wgn311 or whatever (I'm sure I can find out exactly what it is if and when that matters). Can I enter some console commands during the minimal install to make it use that one instead? Is the console (alt + f2) even where I'm supposed to be entering commands during a minimal install?

I'm so lost and about ready to give up, all I want is ubuntu 11.04 running gnome or xfce and a browser. I want all the automation of the full install, without all the bloat, is that really so complicated? Can't I rip the bloat from the iso or mess with it some way to make it only install certain things, while allowing it to do the automated stuff that a minimal install doesn't?

---

### Post by Thewhistlingwind on 2011-05-28
My suggestion, take a break, it will all seem clearer when your less frustrated. 

Also, to get your hardware specs, use lspci (The command.)

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-28
> **Thewhistlingwind said:**
> My suggestion, take a break, it will all seem clearer when your less frustrated. 

Also, to get your hardware specs, use lspci (The command.)
True. I've resorted to going on an uninstall mission, fully expecting to break stuff to see what I could do/learn. Got all the stuff I know about (probably not a dent compared to a minimal install) and broke gnome, but:

I learned. And I solved a problem on my own! First of all, during the minimal install I remembered from the first day of using ubuntu that alt+f2 brings up the console, that was cool but I got scared when alt+f7 didn't bring back the "screen". Alt+f1 did it, as you probably know. Obviously I couldn't complete the install, but it was a minor success for a newb.

Then I think uninstalling Evolution ruined my desktop after a restart. Again, panicked for a second, and then remembered... ctrl+alt+t, sudo apt-get gnome-panel, firefox, google how to restart, sudo shutdown -r now

So it's been a bittersweet night, failure and success. I think GNU/Linux could be really exciting, I just hope I can get some help around here doing a minimal install soon :)

A lot of people on here have been really helpful and cool and I wanna thank you guys. So.. Thanks :)

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2011-05-28
Yep, the minimal iso won't connect on my wireless either. Some of the other Linux distros will need a wired connection to install also. That's one of the good things about Ubuntu, and it has only been possible for the past couple of years.

I can understand your desire for a bloat-free system, but it is so much easier to just install the whole shebang and then remove the unwanted programs over a period of days or weeks. It can easily be done by using Synaptic Pkg Mgr. Something you might not be aware of; when you remove a program that is included in the Ubuntu-desktop.. You'll see a notification that indicates the entire desktop will also be removed. But it isn't true. What will be taken out is actually the meta-file for the desktop, which is just a list of the programs that define the Ubuntu-desktop. However, there are a few things that are deeply integrated into the desktop which WILL take out something critical to it's operation. Evolution mail is one of those things.

That's just one of the reasons that I recommended Xubuntu to you yesterday. Xubuntu has far fewer cross-dependencies than Ubuntu, besides being lighter and quicker to begin with. I would have recommended Xubuntu 11.04 rather than 10.10, but the newer release still has some bugs that need to be fixed. Although, there is a chance that you wouldn't be affected by them.

Anyway, I still stand by my recommendation of Xubuntu as opposed to Ubuntu. One more point: Most of the bloat in any Linux distro won't affect performance, it just wastes a bit of hard drive space. It doesn't eat up memory or cpu cycles like you might experience with Windows bloat.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-05-28
You see, there is a fine line between "bloat" and a functioning system. You can not have it both ways.

Either you are willing to learn enough about your hardware and linux to be able to build a minimal install or learn to live with the bloat.

In terms of your wireless, you will need to install using a wired connections and then google search your wireless card and install the driver.

If you take the time to learn to do a minimal install you will know your hardware and have a lean mean installation, but you will need to be patient with yourself and willing to learn.

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-28
True bhodi and 4orbs, I had to connect by wire, and everything worked! I'm amped!

So I restarted when it asked at the end of the minimal install, and eventually after restarting it got to a point where the screen froze so I hit alt+f2 and now I'm at a console I guess (screen is not frozen at the console, and I don't know how to get back to the frozen screen, not that I care to). Am I doing this right? This is what I see:

Ubuntu 11.04 mrt tty1
mrt login: _

mrt is what I chose for a username or something. Where do I go from here, what commands do I type in what order to get "the basics"? I've decided to go with gnome for a desktop, but I don't even know how to get that, and I don't know what else I want/need or even how to go about getting it. Please help! In the meantime I'm reading links others have already suggested concerning a minimal install to see what I can figure out.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-05-29
It is a long thread, but the link I gave you earlier covers most everythig you need.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/LowMemorySystems)

---

### Post by katykat on 2011-05-29
One of the key issues here is *what is needed*. 

It sounds like the OP wants a very basic system for browsing the web, and perhaps some other basic functions. 

For such basics I wuld probably simply recommend a LiveCD, and maybe even remastering *that* to get rid on any unnecessary garbage and burning it. Unhackable, and dont have to worry about security 'features' such as Apparmor (or Selinux) and firewalls. 

I took the opposite approach and installed the majority of the Debian archives, as well as CPAN. And then skinned it down by removing junk from init.d and Upstart. 

I just moved all the unneeded daemons to another driectory and start the ones wanted, when needed (like Apache). 

Indeed, I myself would like to know the minimal daemons needed for a typical setup where local network security is not an issue, but keeping people from getting a remote login is. Disabling NFS, SSH, and anything resembling Remote Desktop seems to be a place to start. 

In short, I would interpret the initial request as the settings for a system that looks and *feels* like the standard release, with it tailored for the users needs, and so maximum speed and flexibility. And there *IS* alot of junk that comes with the standard distros that can and do slow up a system. 

One of the main problems with Linux is that it comes from a world where the first priority has been to keep local users from each other and control of the system. And so there is no real paradigm of a system for the 'Home User' who has no need for password hiding, or even multiple accounts - and would just like to keep things simple. 
Keep the world out, with local users masters of the system, and not waste resources looking for unwanted users who arent there.

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-05-30
@Bhodi, Thanks, I read a lot if not most of that link, I was worried though because it said it hasn't been updated since before 10.04.

@katykat, on the money, and hopefully more distributors will pick up on that. The bloat may not slow my leviathan down, but that's not an excuse IMO. Given how extremely easy it would be for Ubuntu (or any decent group of coders) to release a version fully as automated, but also fully customizable, I've conclude that Ubuntu therefore explicitly wants its inexperienced users (home desktop or curious laptop users) to be exposed to promoted software whether they like it or not.

As for this thread, I completed a minimal install and realized that there just isn't a single well organized, up to date guide for accomplishing what I and katykat are talking about. Apparently for now it's either automation or customization if you don't have the time to learn things inside and out from the ground up starting at day 1.

So I reinstalled from the normal CD and am putting up with the fact that I can't have things exactly like I want for now. Thanks for all you guys' help!! I'll just customize what I can using the ubuntu classic mode for now until I learn enough to be confident to set up a minimal install to my expectations.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2011-05-30
Pre-customized distros? Have you visited [DistroWatch]("http://distrowatch.com/")?

---

### Post by katykat on 2011-05-30
I think we'll get hollered at here if we go into critiques, so maybe we should get a thread going on the 'Community Cafe' where we can at least throw some ideas out there for the powers that be to munch on. 

I like my gnome widgets, so not about to go to the desert of a base Xserver, but would like to be able to have a clear guide as to what junk is not needed and disposable, like on XP where you can go into services. msc with an axe and double the speed while quadrupling the security. 

The problem is that some of the junk is ever harder to find......

---

### Post by c-1000 on 2011-05-31
>  I completed a minimal install and realized that there just isn't a  single well organized, up to date guide for accomplishing what I and  katykat are talking aboutunfortunately youre right...unless something has come out recently that ive missed, minimal installs have always suffered from a dearth of information. ive been using the minimal install exclusively since jaunty, and its been mostly trial and error for me. it can be something of a chess match, but if you take your time, and spend some time, youll end up with exactly what you want.

ive never tried installing from the mini.iso -- i always use the alternate install disc. just hit F4 from the boot screen and select "install a command line system", hit enter, [hit enter again], and off you go. personally, i prefer the text-based installer to the gui, even if i am installing default ubuntu; the partitioning step can be confusing to the uninitiated but if your partitions are already set its fairly straightforward.
i also have the advantage of a wired internet connection which ubuntu recognizes almost immediately; if youre having trouble connecting im afraid i cant be of much help; but you CAN install the minimal system without an internet connection.

once you finish the installation and reboot, you be faced with a blank screen. it may be blinking or flickering. you have to hit ctrl-alt-F1 to get a login prompt. natty is the first version where i have had to do this, so i feel compelled to point it out.

from here, youve got a blank canvas, so to speak. you could just do a sudo apt-get install gnome-desktop and get it over with, but chances are thats going to pull in a lot of cruft and leave you not much better off than a default install. you just have to play around with different packages, see what dependencies they pull in, and figure out the best way to get everything you need and nothing you dont.

i use, and highly recommend, clonezilla to save your progress incrementally -- but thats really outside the scope of this thread, i think.

anyway, chew on some of that, and if you have any other questions ill take my best shot...

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-31
> **4Orbs said:**
> Pre-customized distros? Have you visited [DistroWatch]("http://distrowatch.com/")?

That would make this just way too easy I'm afraid. ;)

Some users believe that the more you suffer with the installation
the better the system will be in the end. 

Kinda like marriage.

Well maybe not marriage. Maybe it's like buying a car. 

For instance, some people aren't happy unless they practically give the
salesperson a complete nervous breakdown first, and keep visiting each weekend to
start the whole process all over again, until they figure out that the price is the price
they were told originally weeks ago or that miraculously the dealership will do 
whatever they want just to be rid of the insufferable buyer.

Suffering in life equates with quality...

And for the rest of us there is the live installation disc of Ubuntu  :)  (grin)

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2011-05-31
Well, I'm happy to hear that I can do a minimal install from the alternate cd and (I presume) pull in a few critical packages from the disc sans an internet connection. Gonna start downloading it now, can't resist trying. And if I can't get something usable accomplished by morning, I'll have the devil to pay.

---

### Post by c-1000 on 2011-05-31
everything you need *should* be on the disc...since the switch to unity im guessing the whole of gnome 2.32 is still onboard, but i dont know for sure.
if youre going with xfce i would just about bet that everything you need for a vanilla install is on the xubuntu disc. 

just run 'sudo add-apt-cdrom' and update to use the packages on the disc.
you may need to mount the disc yourself (using sudo mount) before running this command.

im sure theres a way to establish a wireless connection from the command line, but if nothing else you could always install X from the disc, then install network-manager and synaptic. network manager used to pull in a bunch of obnoxious dependencies, but i dont think its as bad as it used to be.

---

### Post by idoitprone on 2011-05-31
you may want to read about other distro's wiki

gentoo and arch have excellent wikis. after all, they are minimist install distros 

[https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Main_Page](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Main_Page)

although you do not have to configure as much in ubuntu. Those topics on basic commands can rival the helpfulness of ubuntu.

and no, this is not an effort to derail you from the original topic, but a better view of what you want in you installation.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2011-05-31
After doing some research, I've almost decided to install the minimal Ubuntu inside a virtual machine and build a lightweight thing in there, then use remastersys to create an installation cd of my custom build. That way my current working system is safe up 'til the moment of truth. Living on the edge here.\\:D/

And it looks like I can use 64 bit inside the VM and also have internet connection even though my computer is connected wirelessly.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-31
> **4Orbs said:**
> After doing some research, I've almost decided to install the minimal Ubuntu inside a virtual machine and build a lightweight thing in there, then use remastersys to create an installation cd of my custom build. That way my current working system is safe up 'til the moment of truth. Living on the edge here.\\:D/

And it looks like I can use 64 bit inside the VM and also have internet connection even though my computer is connected wirelessly.

You can save yourself some time with this:

[http://madbox.tuxfamily.org/](http://madbox.tuxfamily.org/)

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-05-31
> **4Orbs said:**
> After doing some research, I've almost decided to install the minimal Ubuntu inside a virtual machine and build a lightweight thing in there, then use remastersys to create an installation cd of my custom build. That way my current working system is safe up 'til the moment of truth. Living on the edge here.\\:D/

And it looks like I can use 64 bit inside the VM and also have internet connection even though my computer is connected wirelessly.Hi, yes you can do it that way, I have a minimal install of ubuntu and gentoo, but it took me days with gentoo to get it working right.

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-06-01
Let us know how that goes 4orbs, sounds promising.

I'm gonna study gnu/linux more before I attempt another minimal install. I just wish there were resources similar to Deke Mclelland's photoshop tutorials for Lynda.com. I watched 350 hours of video and read 2 comprehensive books on photoshop cs5, in addition to the follow-along time, "homework" projects, and contests I entered. I motivated myself to do that of my own volition, because the learning resources were of high enough quality that I felt it was worth the effort.

I would gladly put similar effort into learning GNU/Linux (if only for the money involved as a network manager) if all the resources weren't outdated 20000 page books, fragmented/unsolved forum topics, generally unorganized, incomprehensive and unkempt tutorials, expensive college classes of questionable value, or unresearched videos from 13YOs on youtube.

Honestly, people want things that work, that are intuitive and peronsalizable, that are customizable/expandable, and that don't have baggage. The day someone releases a customizable graphic install for ubuntu, it will be the status quo. Since this is so incredibly possible, easy, and in natural demand, I've concluded Canonical/Ubuntu is determined to ignore this demand for reasons not relevant to this thread.

As for private programmers, I can't imagine why they haven't figured this out yet. I would expect some group to release something like a hacked customizable version of the Ubuntu installer within a day or two after each official release...

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-01
Take a class in it a your local community centre or community college.

Intro to Unix in Linux. 

> **.psd said:**
> Let us know how that goes 4orbs, sounds promising.

I'm gonna study gnu/linux more before I attempt another minimal install. I just wish there were resources similar to Deke Mclelland's photoshop tutorials for Lynda.com. I watched 350 hours of video and read 2 comprehensive books on photoshop cs5, in addition to the follow-along time, "homework" projects, and contests I entered. I motivated myself to do that of my own volition, because the learning resources were of high enough quality that I felt it was worth the effort.

I would gladly put similar effort into learning GNU/Linux (if only for the money involved as a network manager) if all the resources weren't outdated 20000 page books, fragmented/unsolved forum topics, generally unorganized, incomprehensive and unkempt tutorials, expensive college clases of questionable value, or unresearched videos from 13YOs on youtube.

Honestly, people want things that work, that are intuitive and peronsalizable, that are customizable/expandable, and that don't have baggage. The day someone releases a customizable graphic install for ubuntu, it will be the status quo. Since this is so incredibly possible, easy, and in natural demand, I've concluded Canonical/Ubuntu is determined to ignore this demand for reasons not relevant to this thread.

As for private programmers, I can't imagine why they haven't figured this out yet. I would expect some group to release something like a hacked customizable version of the Ubuntu installer within a day or two after each official release...

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-06-01
> **linuxinstalledfromhdd said:**
> Take a class in it a your local community centre or community college.

Intro to Unix in Linux.
Exactly what I'm trying to avoid. I personally, and probably most people in my experience, learn better, and can learn more, and for free, through simple instructional and/or follow-along videos. Lynda.com and Khan Academy figured this out years ago, but it's entirely normal for the mainstream to lag behind.

As Linux is staged to destroy the win/mac-by-necessity status quo, there's a lot of money to be made filling in the void of intuitive learning resources (and the void of automated customizable intuitive user-friendly installs).

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-01
> **.psd said:**
> Exactly what I'm trying to avoid. I personally, and probably most people in my experience, learn better, and can learn more, and for free, through simple instructional and/or follow-along videos. Lynda.com and Khan Academy figured this out years ago, but it's entirely normal for the mainstream to lag behind.

As Linux is staged to destroy the win/mac-by-necessity status quo, there's a lot of money to be made filling in the void of intuitive learning resources (and the void of automated customizable intuitive user-friendly installs).


The sooner you understand the complete fundamentals behind the UNIX language, you will receive total consciousness.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2011-06-01
> Let us know how that goes 4orbs, sounds promising
Building from the minimal install was a fun learning experience. But it was extremely time consuming and the final result was a bit disappointing. While I managed to reduce the ram usage slightly compared to a normal Xubuntu installation, it didn't work as smoothly or pleasantly. Maybe if I spend more time fine-tuning, it would be nicer. However, I've already grown frustrated and tired of messing with unanticipated quirks.

For my needs it seems more sensible to just install Xubuntu, spend a couple of hours tweaking and adding an Openbox session. Three hours compared to the twelve hours I devoted to the minimal (which still doesn't measure up). I'll continue fiddling with the minimal, but without the enthusiasm I had two days ago.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-06-01
> **4Orbs said:**
> Building from the minimal install was a fun learning experience. But it was extremely time consuming and the final result was a bit disappointing. While I managed to reduce the ram usage slightly compared to a normal Xubuntu installation, it didn't work as smoothly or pleasantly. Maybe if I spend more time fine-tuning, it would be nicer. However, I've already grown frustrated and tired of messing with unanticipated quirks.

For my needs it seems more sensible to just install Xubuntu, spend a couple of hours tweaking and adding an Openbox session. Three hours compared to the twelve hours I devoted to the minimal (which still doesn't measure up). I'll continue fiddling with the minimal, but without the enthusiasm I had two days ago.

If you want the full experience, try linux from scratch, gentoo, or arch.

But yes, unless you do a ton of minimal installs there is a learning curve.

I do mostly minimal installs, so it does not take that long to get a minimal fedora / debian / ubuntu / arch system up for me personally, but I have been doing Linux for a while and for the most part I know exactly what packages I want.

Another thing I find, minimal installs typically do not save *that* much RAM these days, the main savings you get is on hard drive space.

The debian remix I made, zenix, takes up just over 1.5 Gb of hard drive space, while, last I looked, Ubuntu was weighing in at 3.5 Gb, so that is a substantial space savings, and that is what to expect with a minimal install.

If you want to save on RAM, do not start so many services when you boot and/or log in.

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-06-01
> **4Orbs said:**
> Building from the minimal install was a fun learning experience. But it was extremely time consuming and the final result was a bit disappointing. While I managed to reduce the ram usage slightly compared to a normal Xubuntu installation, it didn't work as smoothly or pleasantly. Maybe if I spend more time fine-tuning, it would be nicer. However, I've already grown frustrated and tired of messing with unanticipated quirks.

For my needs it seems more sensible to just install Xubuntu, spend a couple of hours tweaking and adding an Openbox session. Three hours compared to the twelve hours I devoted to the minimal (which still doesn't measure up). I'll continue fiddling with the minimal, but without the enthusiasm I had two days ago.
Precisely! Except I settled with regular Ubuntu, and I no longer have a minimal to fiddle/learn with.

@ Bhodi, I hope to one day be proficient with Linux. I'm willing to learn at a reasonable pace with reasonable resources, and I'm no longer expecting anything to work OOTB and am getting used to the research-everything-before-you-do-anything GNU/Linux mentality. That said, I don't think minimalists like myself prefer a minimal system for the performance boost. I already have a top dollar gaming rig, nothing is slowing it down or taking up too much space. I simply want a machine with everything I need and nothing I don't, so I see Ubuntu's promoted software and unnecessarily included packages not only as bloat (because I don't need it, and if I did then I should be allowed to select/deselect it during install or else acquire it after the fact), but actually as malware (because it's promoted 3rd party software that I can't uninstall without breaking things unless I'm an expert).

The point isn't just that I don't (and nobody should) want unneeded files no less entire software and architecture on my system which I don't have any reason to use/trust. The point is that Ubuntu has made an explicit choice to NOT give us the choice to NOT install much of this, or even the resources for newbs to uninstall it thoroughly and safely after the fact, and that's disturbing.

EDIT: Note, I don't want to come off as a complainer or whiner. I've come to terms with this reality and have expressed my willingness to put up with it as well as my willingness to learn and take control for myself.

---

### Post by bodhi.zazen on 2011-06-01
I understand, one person's unnecessary files and bloat are anothers ease of use.

I assume you are new to Linux, and that being the case you need to allow yourself time to grow and understand how Linux works.

Ubuntu, with all it's bloat, is one of the best, if not the best, distros for new users.

There are many distros with little or no bloat , including slitaz to gentoo to arch linux, but, with less bloat comes the expectation that you know what you are doing or are willing to spend the hours (or days in the case of gentoo) to learn.

I suggest you try a minimal install in VritualBox, and you will likely find in 6 months it is much much easier for you to perform a minimal install.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-01
> **.psd said:**
> Precisely! Except I settled with regular Ubuntu, and I no longer have a minimal to fiddle/learn with.

@ Bhodi, I hope to one day be proficient with Linux. I'm willing to learn at a reasonable pace with reasonable resources, and I'm no longer expecting anything to work OOTB and am getting used to the research-everything-before-you-do-anything GNU/Linux mentality. That said, I don't think minimalists like myself prefer a minimal system for the performance boost. I already have a top dollar gaming rig, nothing is slowing it down or taking up too much space. I simply want a machine with everything I need and nothing I don't, so I see Ubuntu's promoted software and unnecessarily included packages not only as bloat (because I don't need it, and if I did then I should be allowed to select/deselect it during install or else acquire it after the fact), but actually as malware (because it's promoted 3rd party software that I can't uninstall without breaking things unless I'm an expert).

The point isn't just that I don't (and nobody should) want unneeded files no less entire software and architecture on my system which I don't have any reason to use/trust. The point is that Ubuntu has made an explicit choice to NOT give us the choice to NOT install much of this, or even the resources for newbs to uninstall it thoroughly and safely after the fact, and that's disturbing.

EDIT: Note, I don't want to come off as a complainer or whiner. I've come to terms with this reality and have expressed my willingness to put up with it as well as my willingness to learn and take control for myself.

Did you ever download and try Crunchbang Statler XFCE/Openbox?  

It is a minimal distribution in pure debian. None of that, as you say, "bloat"...

It's free, and you can have it up and running on your system in about 20 minutes. 

They have a wonderful forum for new users like yourself, to help guide you through the process of having the exact type of system you have gone through so much trouble to explain to everyone here on Ubuntu help forums, and that you really really really wish was like Ubuntu.  Its just not. Sorry.  There are perhaps 4 or 5 other distros that would probably fit your request to a perfect match. 

I love Ubuntu, and I don't have any problems with it, but then again it's what I want out of the myriad of other very different and unique distributions of linux that are available completely for free for anyone to try. Before you make any more generalizations about Linux, I suggest you give them a try first. 

Cheers.

---

### Post by DinoT1985 on 2011-06-01
> **.psd said:**
> Precisely! Except I settled with regular Ubuntu, and I no longer have a minimal to fiddle/learn with.

@ Bhodi, I hope to one day be proficient with Linux. I'm willing to learn at a reasonable pace with reasonable resources, and I'm no longer expecting anything to work OOTB and am getting used to the research-everything-before-you-do-anything GNU/Linux mentality. That said, I don't think minimalists like myself prefer a minimal system for the performance boost. I already have a top dollar gaming rig, nothing is slowing it down or taking up too much space. I simply want a machine with everything I need and nothing I don't, so I see Ubuntu's promoted software and unnecessarily included packages not only as bloat (because I don't need it, and if I did then I should be allowed to select/deselect it during install or else acquire it after the fact), but actually as malware (because it's promoted 3rd party software that I can't uninstall without breaking things unless I'm an expert).

The point isn't just that I don't (and nobody should) want unneeded files no less entire software and architecture on my system which I don't have any reason to use/trust. The point is that Ubuntu has made an explicit choice to NOT give us the choice to NOT install much of this, or even the resources for newbs to uninstall it thoroughly and safely after the fact, and that's disturbing.

EDIT: Note, I don't want to come off as a complainer or whiner. I've come to terms with this reality and have expressed my willingness to put up with it as well as my willingness to learn and take control for myself.
That is because the majority of people arent experts and dont know what open source programs they want/need if they are migrating from Windows. Ubuntu is about accessibility too. So you want a minimal OS that you install what you want and you think a 14 year old girl just wanting LibreOffice for school or the grandfather that buys a used PC and loads up Ubuntu to do just that? THAT is why they aint malware. People dont like spending ages trying to get their computer to just work and going though all the PPA's during instalationl researching what each option does would take HOURS. Gedit or Nano? Banshee or Rhythmbox? EOG or Viewnior etc etc etc. Its stupid.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2011-06-01
A few years ago, I remember a guy on the Community Cafe forums who was adamant in making his point that it doesn't matter which Linux distro you installed because they are "ALL THE SAME". He was correct to some degree. Once it's installed and you've chosen your preferred desktop environment they all run at about the same speed, exhibit the same peculiarities and require very similar configuration, although there are exceptions. The big difference is "which one tickles my fancy?" the most. There is no "best overall" because that changes from month to month.

EDIT: Regardless, I consider Xubuntu the best overall because it's the one distro I keep returning to. Call me a hypocrite.

---

### Post by katykat on 2011-06-01
> **.psd said:**
> Exactly what I'm trying to avoid. I personally, and probably most people in my experience, learn better, and can learn more, and for free, through simple instructional and/or follow-along videos. Lynda.com and Khan Academy figured this out years ago, but it's entirely normal for the mainstream to lag behind..

I have been using Linux, on and off, for around 20 years. Ever since version 0.96 or thereabouts. 

But up until recently, it was never meant to be seriously taken for home use. 

It was written by propellorheads for propellorheads. 
Just look at the total gibberish for command names and syntax. 
Worse than the medical field where they use greco-latin to confuse people. 

The man pages are even worse. 
Obfuscated gibberish where they normally go out of the way to avoid simple examples that would clarify issues and meanings in a heartbeat. 

It is an industrial/academic OS - it runs everything from CERN to Amazon, and in places like that they have their own IT teams who probably speak to each other in Urdu or Esperanto just to confuse the heck out of people. 

Ubuntu is the first version of Linux to go after the 'home' market, even though it may be a little clunky about it, it has fully reached a competitive stage to take on Macs and Win. It is great for the typical home users who browse and need basic office apps. But who are not especially interested in technical issues and tweaking. The ideal Ubuntu is one where the user never, ever needs to see a shell script. 
One that makes a Mac look onerously difficult. 

It is, however probably one of the worst for learning the intracacies of Linux though, as it is ever getting far away from the core Unix design structure, and is morphing into something, well, alien. 

I would recommend Arch for the very, very basics of the command line, and Fedora for the tinkerers. Especially as the latter doesnt break as easily and their yum seems infinitely better at handling dependencies than apt/synaptic. (Needed when installing new apps or things from strange repositories). 

And to learn to turn Linux into  a powerful tool I would also recommend learning Perl, as it greatly expands on the power of the shell scripts, and can handle just about any web applications such as XML - and with 15,000+  additional 'mods' is effectivley an OS in itself.  (It would also give you the basic skills to handle others like C and Python and PHP). 

One tool I do recommend, however is Midnight Commander - mc .
It gives full system access when run as root, and full access to the command line with ctrl-o. 
Gnome-commander is similar, but more graphical, and its Samba support is excellent. 

I believe that learning the file system is much easier with them than the standard 'tools' which confuse the bejeesis outta me.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-01
> **katykat said:**
> 
One tool I do recommend, however is Midnight Commander - mc .
It gives full system access when run as root, and full access to the command line with ctrl-o. 
Gnome-commander is similar, but more graphical, and its Samba support is excellent. 

I believe that learning the file system is much easier with them than the standard 'tools' which confuse the bejeesis outta me.

Another one I would like to add is PCMANFM. It's a very simplistic GUI file manager reminiscent of old old windows 98.  You can change access to root (click Tools, and Change to Root) on the fly, and literally drag and drop whatever you want, wherever you want to put it, without knowing anything about the command line. You can open files in editors without the sudo command outside of your Home directory.  It can  be installed by simply doing a sudo apt-get install pcmanfm, and you can try it out to see exactly what I mean too.  Great little application that takes away some of the initial frustration out of using a Linux file system for the first time.  Though, it is important that everyone learn basic Unix commands too, eventually, and most importantly when they are ready to learn them. :)

---

### Post by .psd on 2011-06-01
And that's the way the cookie crumbles. Ubuntu it is, and the experience begins...

I never did try any other distros, just different methods of installing Ubuntu, which I immediately regretted. Everything works fabulously OOTB with Ubuntu, so until another distro is more mainstream with better install options then I'm in for the long haul (or unless I learn reasons why another official Ubuntu release like Xubuntu or Kubuntu should satisfy my whims better).

Trust me DinoT it's not only possible it's common sense. But I won't beat a dead horse.

We're on the same page katykat except you've been using Linux a lot longer. It's also funny you mention programming because software/web development has been a secret dream of mine for years, it just always seemed like too much work, like I'd have to learn 20 languages just to get anything done, and the profit/reward would still be questionable. I think with Linux becoming mainstream now is a good time to start, but I need to hop on some forums and ask some seasoned vets what they think are the best avenues and their outlook for the future.

Since the topic seems to be coming to a close, I feel the need to put this out on front street. I'm not anyone special, but I did grow up as a technology nerd among other geeks, and online, and I've certainly experienced countless UIs, install procedures, forums and opinions, etc etc etc. I think Ubuntu is staged more than any other distro by far to bring Linux to the mainstream home/enthusiast user. I think their funding and interests require them to promote a lot of software, and their install procedure therefore results in *massive* bloat and arguably malware. Granted Windows is worse, but two wrongs don't make a right. Anyways, my point is that the Ubuntu team is (perhaps intentionally, but with naive disregard for the market consequences) failing in critical areas, at such an important time in history, and that supply creates demand. A lot of people don't know they want something until they realize how useful or better it is. Based on my experiences in life and with GNU/Linux as a complete newb, the current and future community needs and is bound to want:

A) A way to install Ubuntu (not anything else) in a manner such that the user can choose *to* or *not to* install various things that would otherwise be installed by default, and/or to choose their own "parts", along with explanations. I can think of several ways to present these options to users of various experience levels. I believe Ubuntu realizes this is what people want, and have made an explicit choice to not make it happen, and so it is up to independent devs, but I believe smaller developers have simply overlooked the opportunity.
B) A series, eventually adding up to a comprehensive library, of tutorial videos, specifically like those presented by Deke Mclelland or Salman Khan. Especially covering beginner topics, but not lacking in intermediate or advanced topics.

Whoever satisfies these demands the most effectively, and assuming they are noticed, is staged to not only help the community beyond description, but also to ride the wave of demand from newbs. Profit or not, this is a golden opportunity to fill market void and make a name/career for oneself. I looked at all the resources I could find on amazon for learning linux/ubuntu, and trust me, none of them are accessible to the modern mainstream home user. The plethora of user-written tutorials and guides scattered across the internet hasn't proved much better, and they're certainly less organized.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2011-06-01
As you have seen, the problem with Linux specific tutorials is that they become obsolete very quickly. I think that discourages people from even attempting to write an in-depth how-to. Thank goodness we have the Ubuntu forums.

---

### Post by katykat on 2011-06-01
Pcmanfm is very close to nautilus in design. 

mc and gnome-commander are very powerful in that they are more than just file managers, you can manage pretty  much the entire file system out of them. Making symliinks, finding files, comparing directories, viewing, creating and manipulating archives, editing files., chmod, chown chgrp, ftp and even Samba. Even kill background jobs. 

mc with ctrl-o gives full terminal access.  The built in editor blows vi away. Directly edit configuration files without even bothering with the command line.  Its not pretty. Only useful. 

In Win there is FAR, with similar capabilities, though Total Commander is close, but lacks a native shell environment.

---

