---
title: "10.04 Killed Vista!"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iGuitar on 2010-05-02
After upgrading from 9.10 to 10.04 I can no longer access Vista or the Recovery Hard Drive. I simply get a black screen with a blinking cursor when I try to boot either.

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2010-05-02
Can you run **df -h** in terminal and post the output here (this will tell us if the partition are still there).

If they are still located on the disc (hopefully they are) try running the command **sudo update-grub**

If that does not work could you post the contents of your **/boot/grub/grub.cfg** file?

Regards,
~Jeff

---

### Post by chinoto on 2010-05-13
I get the same thing. For awhile I could just use my install disc to "repair windows", but for some reason that stopped working. (I may have had problems on 9.10 too, if I did, it was far less often)
I need to get my Windows partition working for my Visual Basic class :(
The laptop is a Compaq Presario CQ60, Windows was preinstalled, Windows install disk was for a different computer. The Windows partition was shrunk with gparted since the built in partition manager had to deal with files being in use (pagefile.sys for example), but it was still bootable (though I may have needed to use the install disk to repair it first).

---

### Post by sgage on 2010-05-13
I've encountered something like this in the past. Boot the Windows CD and make sure your Windows partition is marked A for active, using the diskpart utility.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-05-14
iGuitar:  It's been a week since you were asked for information.  We're not mind readers here.  If you won't work with us, then don't post your problems.

chinoto: Please don't hijack someone else's thread. Start your own thread so we can deal specifically with your problem.

---

