---
title: "10.04 upgrade - no desktop"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-04-30
I just upgraded from kubuntu 9.10 to 10.04.  Upon login, I have no desktop, task manager, or menus of any kind.  The only signs of life are the fact that CTRL+ALT+DEL brings up System Activity, and the apps that I have set to auto start (QuickSynergy and yakuake) have in fact started.

Please help me fix this.

---

### Post by GSF1200S on 2010-04-30
> **kooldino said:**
> I just upgraded from kubuntu 9.10 to 10.04.  Upon login, I have no desktop, task manager, or menus of any kind.  The only signs of life are the fact that CTRL+ALT+DEL brings up System Activity, and the apps that I have set to auto start (QuickSynergy and yakuake) have in fact started.

Please help me fix this.

Sorry to say this, but it appears you arent alone:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1464433](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1464433)

Im assuming you are at least using another DE to post this. If not, you could always logout of GDM to a console session and install something light like Fluxbox to get you to a working desktop (or use yakuake if your network works).

---

### Post by kooldino on 2010-04-30
That was the same issue I had.  Looks like they figured it out - PLASMA was missing!

sudo apt-get install kdebase-workspace

---

### Post by danielhulsey on 2010-05-07
same problem. ok this may be a stupid question and i should know this but if i can't get to the desktop then how do i run this command. how do i get to prompt?

---

### Post by dracayr on 2010-05-07
press ctrl+alt+F1

dracayr

---

### Post by danielhulsey on 2010-05-07
Thank you. see this is why i love linux so much. you don't get that kind of response from W!!!!!S.
Worked perfectly.

---

### Post by enchesss on 2010-05-22
worked for me too thanks.

upgraded with alternate cd using kubuntu and it aksed for the cd.

put cd in and it installed ok. now have workspace and seems fine.

---

