---
title: "10.04 GeForce Dual Monitors"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by casey.malek on 2010-05-06
Hey guys - I was running the previous version of Ubuntu with  dual monitors (GeForce 9500GT GPU, Acer x203H, Acer X241W monitors) and everything was working fine.  I upgraded to 10.04 this morning and one of my monitors is acting weird.  First of all, the display is perfectly fine, it shows the wallpaper, and if I try to launch a program that opened on the left monitor by default it opens and displays it perfectly fine on the left monitor.  However, the problem occurs when i try to move the mouse to the left screen, it appears to get "stuck" when i cross over to the left monitor.  The mouse cursor blinks and flickers around, once it has crossed over to the left monitor, making it impossible to click on anything.  I was wondering if anybody has experienced this, and how to fix it?  I've been using ubuntu for about 3 or 4 years so instructions should be enough to get me through. (I'd like to think).  thanks guys!

---

### Post by Timtro on 2010-05-06
Hmmmm... I'm not expert, but I'll take a crack (until someone who knows chimes in).

Are you using the binary driver? If not, then go to the restricted drivers manager and install. If yes, then do you have nVidia setting manager installed? If not, sudo apt-get install nvidia-settings and run it with sudo. Fiddle around and click apply. If what you get works, then save to an xorg.conf. Disable and reenable twinview perhaps.

Sorry for the rather basic advise, but I'm not clear on what the problem is. Sounds like an xorg issue, but it could also be the driver.

---

### Post by casey.malek on 2010-05-06
Under hardware drivers, I'm using the NVIDIA accelerated graphics driver (version 173), I tried it under the (version current)[recommended] but it didn't work either.  I also already have the Nvidia Xserver settings app under system>administration.  Like I said, this was working perfectly fine this morning running 9.10 (i believe) , as soon as I upgraded all hell broke loose.  I'll try your suggestions tho.  Thanks!

---

### Post by casey.malek on 2010-05-06
Timtro you rule!  I went into the x server settings, and on the messed up monitor i disabled "separate x screen", rebooted the machine, then enabled "separate x screen" , then rebooted again, works perfect now.  Thanks a lot for your help!

---

### Post by rawdul on 2010-05-07
Same problem here with Nvidia Quadro NVS 295. I played around with xorg.conf and think the problem lays with Xinemara and my second screen being rotated.

... after some searching I found bug report #56310: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/563100](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg-server/+bug/563100)

---

### Post by Squall Leonhart on 2010-05-10
I had the same problem with Radeon HD4870. The pointer got stuck instantly when I move it over to the second screen but I was able to move it back to the main screen.
I didn't have time to deal with it so I reinstalled Karmic instead.

Kubuntu 10.04 x64


(Woohoo, my first post! :) )

---

### Post by Timtro on 2010-05-17
> **casey.malek said:**
> Timtro you rule!  I went into the x server settings, and on the messed up monitor i disabled "separate x screen", rebooted the machine, then enabled "separate x screen" , then rebooted again, works perfect now.  Thanks a lot for your help!

Thanks! I'm really glad it worked out for you. I don't know what I'd do without my dual monitors!

:)

---

### Post by DinkyDogg on 2010-05-19
Exactly the same problem here, right after I upgraded to 10.04. This happened initially after doing the live upgrade, and persisted even after a clean install.

Using an Nvidia 8800 GTS and proprietary drivers. TwinView with Xinerama works fine in any configuration except for having my secondary monitor the the left of my primary, which is unfortunately how they're configured on my desk. I "fixed" the problem by swapping the DVI cables so my secondary is to the right of the primary, but that's not a great fix.

Hope whatever the issue is gets resolved soon.

---

### Post by SiliconS on 2010-05-19
I can't help solve the problem but I'd like to add my support to those with a problem. I've got three monitors running from two nVidia GPUs (one on the motherboard, and one on PCI). When I first installed 10.04 I got the whole thing running with Compiz as two separate X-screens and I was (relatively) happy. After the first reboot everything went to rats and now my cursor gets stuck and jumpy when it crosses the boundary from the PCI dual screens onto the mobo screen. No combination of Twinview/Xinerama/X-screen seems to return me to the first successful combination I had.
This is literally the only thing stopping me moving from XP to Ubuntu on my desktop. :(

---

### Post by robbie d on 2010-05-22
sometimes when mine boots it doesn't even pickup my second GPU. I have two Nvidia 9500 GT cards and the on board radeon. This only happened since the upgrade

---

