---
title: "What the heck did I do?"
date: 2008-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dilberito on 2008-05-22
I was playing a game and I hit ALT + something else (no idea what it is, I can't remember) and suddenly something came on my screen, I only caught the word "Resolution".

All I know is that it lowered my refresh rate for my screen. It all also appeared skewed. Right now the highest settings I can run are 1280 x 1024 and 51 Hz.

I don't really know what happened or what I did. Any ideas on how to restore the original settings that came with Ubuntu other than a fresh install?

---

### Post by tamoneya on 2008-05-22
what type of graphics card are you using? Nvidia, ATI, intel?  If you dont know type ```
lspci
```in terminal and post the result here.

---

### Post by Dilberito on 2008-05-23
I'm using Nvidia GeForce 8500. It was working just fine before.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-05-23
Post the output of:-
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

---

### Post by Dilberito on 2008-05-23
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"UseFBDev"	"true"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Driver		"nvidia"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


This is what came up.

---

### Post by PmDematagoda on 2008-05-23
The xorg.conf file looks ok, try setting the resolution and refresh rates manually using nvidia-settings with:-
```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

---

