---
title: "11.04 Wireless disconnects randomly"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-28
Hello.

I'm trying to share an ethernet connection via wifi to my iPod touch and my iPad. I used to do it just fine in Ubuntu 10.10. It used to give me issues but i managed to fix it. I dont remember how but i think it was by installing backport wireless drivers or something.

However, as i upgraded to 11.04 today, the problem was back. I've tried installing Wcid and i cant seem to do the backport thing anymore and nothing seems to fix the issue. Any help would be appreciated.

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-29
The Bumpities

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-29
Excellent. Now Unity refuses to work. I didnt mess with anything! I just booted up my PC and all of a sudden "This computer doesnt have the hardware to run Unity" or something. Absolutely excellent. This OS is absolutely quality work. 

I seriously think that Ubuntu has more problems in it than all Windows OSs combined. Geez.

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-29
I'm currently reinstalling ubuntu. I think to fix my wireless issue, I'll just install vmware and make a win xp virtual machine. In it I'll run the wifi whenever I need it. It's less than ideal. Heck if ubuntu 11.04 is trying to be more user friendly, then I shouldn't have to go this far to fix a problem. If this works that is. Haven't tried it yet. 

Ubuntu will be the most user friendly, in my opinion, when using the terminal becomes 100% optional. I find myself using it a lot and I've only been using ubuntu for a few weeks. Never had any knowledge of Linux before this and now I have to learn so many terminal commands just to get things working as they should out of the box. 

While I'm at it, I'll talk about unity. The only experience i have with docks was with the iPod touch and the iPad. As well as 20 seconds of me playing with a MacBook at Best Buy. While unity was working, I had trouble finding use for the "launcher" (the ubuntu devs can call it anything they want, but that my friend is a dock, and it's very Mac-ish). I mean, for me it was a lot faster to just go to the app searcher thing and I would have my app. A lot less cluttered as well. Who would wanna have a dock full of stuff they never use? Or occasionally use. So my unity dock, while it worked, was mostly empty and I cant see that changing. 

Also, how come I can't change where the dock appears? The thing would feel much more comfortable on the bottom of the screen, in my opinion. Not only that but it would add more symmetry to the desktop. I mean seriously, a panel on the top and a dock on he left? No symmetry at all! It looks ugly! It's like a child messing with the task bar on Windows! You would find it on the sides of the screen and 3 times it's size! 

But to give the ubuntu team the benefit of the doubt, perhaps some of these issues are my computers fault. After all it's an 8+ year old Dell Dimension 8300. Yeah. I've been using that PC since I was in high school. It's just worked well and never had a reason to upgrade. I'm gonna buy a new HP desktop and see how things change. I mean not yet but eventually I'll buy one. I was gonna buy a Mac but those computers are disgustingly overpriced. I could buy 3 computers for the price of one MacBook and they would be a lot faster. 

Overall I like unity, but i think it needs. A lot of work, I mean seriously, so much work that it's not even funny. If you're gonna copy Apple, why not add more docklets type thing? Why can't I make "stacks"? I think that's what Apple calls them. Mini folders where you would put your stuff right on the dock. 

Also I hate his that giant ubuntu button reveals the dock when you mouse over it. Constantly while using Chrome in full screen, I would accidentally mouse over it, causing the dock to interrupt mentor 5 seconds. It is incredibly irritating. I don't see any reason at all for the dock to reveal on mouse over like that. I mean you can already push to the left of the screen to reveal it or press the super key. It seems to me that feature was just implemented to irritate users. Seriously. 

But I guess I can't expect much from a free OS. I suppose they have to implement things to irritate people. Otherwise making this for free wouldnt be much fun. For the next prank I suggest creating an annoying mascot and having it appear to interrupt your work for no reason. Perhaps it could also sing embarrassing songs.

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-29
Doing the VMware thing didnt work. WMware quits unexpectedly now for no reason when i try to select the VM i wanna run. Excellent!

---

### Post by askates on 2011-04-29
I feel your pain, this exact same issue with the wireless is happening to me. It was happening before I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04, which hinted at a problem with the wireless router itself, but my housemates can use it without any problems on Windows laptops at the same time that I get disconnected.

Regarding the terminal usage, it's a steep learning curve! There's a lot to learn initially, but once you get to grips with it, you'll often find it a hell of a lot easier to use than the GUI.

If you're finding the launcher popping out annoying, you can always set it to only come out when you mouseover the top left corner of the screen (System Settings > Launcher and Menus). I found it strange that you can't customise the location, but I don't really mind either way.

I think your comment about implementing features to purposely annoy people was somewhat uncalled for. If you find Unity that annoying, you can always switch to GNOME. No one is forcing you to use it.

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-29
Hey, thanks for dropping a reply! I thought i was talking to myself here for a while. 

About the comments, yeah it was uncalled for, but i was frustrated beyond belief at that point. I actually really like Unity, it just needs work. I just wish i could get my Wi-Fi working. Seriously, its driving me nuts. 

The VMware thing didnt work, which was kinda of an overkill solution to begin with. Using an OS within an OS just to use Wi-Fi.Yeah, VMware just quit as soon as i inserted my Wi-Fi dongle and that was the end of it. VMware started quiting at start up. I had to uninstall it. 

Actually about the launcher thing, my problem is that it opens up when i mouse over at the top of the screen as you suggested. Whenever i use Google Chrome fullscreen on a wired connection, i find myself accidentally revealing the launcher when i try to go back a page or refresh a page (I'm a mouse kind of guy...) because i keep mousing over the ubuntu button by mistake. I wanna turn that feature off. I find pushing the mouse to the left of the screen to be more than enough to reveal it. 

And yeah, i'm kind sort of beginning to understand the whole terminal thing. I can navigate between folders and start up scripts from it by memory now. I know how to log out, reboot and open up programs which is a lot for me, haha. 

About the Wi-Fi. At this point i'm beginning to think it might be a kernel issue? I did a clean reinstall so i dont have any old ones around. The Wi-fi seems to work momentarily when i unplug the device and insert it back. Then the connection just dies after a few minutes. And the Wi-Fi works perfectly on Windows 7. But i use that for iTunes syncing purposes only. It'll be a pain having to switch to that when i need wifi.

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-29
Left the wi-fi idle for awhile on Windows 7 and it still works. This points to Ubuntu for sure. 

I dont wanna switch to Windows 7 because i just love all the free software on Ubuntu. Excellent software as well. The Ubuntu Software Center is amazing. I just go there and i get the apps i want. Quick and easy! 

On Windows you have to search, and search then find the right app after trying out several thousands of mediocre programs. Then you have to deal with DRM after paying obscene ammounts of money for said software. Its a pain. 

I'll keep trying to get Wi-Fi working. I need it working on Ubuntu.

---

### Post by lonniehenry on 2011-04-29
If you post some information about your hardware, then people will be able to help you.  Just complaining about the problems will not help.  The forums are most useful if you first search for a solution and then ask appropriate questions.

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-29
Oh believe me, searching is the most i've done. I searched and tinkered enough to accidentally break Ubuntu and i've had to reinstall twice due to failed attempts to fix this.

There isnt much hardware to speak of. This thing is 8+ years old. Its a Dell Dimension 8300, Intel Pentium 4 Processor @ 2.40Ghz, 1GB of ram, Maxtor 250GB harddrive. The Wi-Fi dongle i speak of is identified by Windows 7 as Atheros ar5007UG. Even though its just a cheap dongle i bought at dealxtreme. Cheap but it's always worked perfectly. It works in Windows 7 and it worked in Ubuntu 10.10. It doesnt seem to want to work on Ubuntu 11.04 anymore.

I tried installing Windows drivers using ndiswrapper. It installs successfully yet the connection still fails after a while. I'm not sure what other information i can provide that would be relevant.

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-29
Well i reinstalled ndiswrapper from synaptic instead of from the Ubuntu software center. Then... that's it. I didnt reconfigure it. I didnt install a driver or anything. The Wi-Fi has been stable for 2 hours or so. Hahaha, just when i was about to switch to Windows 7! XD

I'll run some commands just to see if there is anything different and then i'll post up what i find.

```
sudo lshw -C network
[sudo] password for *???*: 
  *-network               
       description: Ethernet interface
       product: 82562EZ 10/100 Ethernet Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 8
       bus info: pci@0000:02:08.0
       logical name: eth0
       version: 02
       serial: 00:07:e9:72:2c:b7
       size: 100Mbit/s
       capacity: 100Mbit/s
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list ethernet physical tp mii 10bt 10bt-fd 100bt 100bt-fd autonegotiation
       configuration: autonegotiation=on broadcast=yes driver=e100 driverversion=3.5.24-k2-NAPI duplex=full firmware=N/A ip=192.168.1.102 latency=64 link=yes maxlatency=56 mingnt=8 multicast=yes port=MII speed=100Mbit/s
       resources: irq:20 memory:fbfef000-fbfeffff ioport:df40(size=64)
  *-network
       description: Wireless interface
       physical id: 1
       logical name: wlan0
       serial: 00:02:72:8a:31:6b
       capabilities: ethernet physical wireless
       configuration: broadcast=yes driver=ndiswrapper+zd1211bu driverversion=1.56+EDUP,08/24/2006,6.19.0.0 ip=10.42.43.1 link=yes multicast=yes wireless=IEEE 802.11g

```

See, the thing is... i configured the ndiswrapper when i was using the software center version. Then i uninstalled it and reinstalled it using synaptic. I didnt to anything else and "driver=ndiswrapper+zd1211bu" is still controlled by ndiswrapper. Which leads me to believe that the update from synaptic fixed it. Let me check if Wi-Fi is still up. Yep, its still working. Before this it used to drop in like 4-5 minutes. Its been more than 2 hours now. I wont mark it as solved yet. I'll report back in a few days. And no, i wont forget. I'll update if anything happens.

---

### Post by LebenOjanen on 2011-04-29
My Fiancée is having the same problem though with a different wireless dongle. Good to see someone's made progress. I agree that it's pretty bad this type of problem managed to slip into the release.

I'll let her know about the possible ndiswrapper fix. Maybe it will help her case too.

---

### Post by TheSuperSteve on 2011-04-30
Well i managed to get the Wi-Fi working just fine now. It hasnt dropped at all since i did the fix yesterday. Here's what i did, note some of these steps may be unnecessary, i'm literally recounting my steps that lead to me fixing this. 

1: I installed ndiswrapper from the Ubuntu Software Center
2: I installed the Windows XP driver that came with my USB Wi-Fi dongle's installation CD.
3: I uninstalled ndiswrapper and reinstalled it straight from Synaptic.
4. Apparently that was it, it stayed configured with the driver. But apparently the version i'm using now is the latest or something because the Wi-Fi hasnt crashed at all. 

I hope this helps someone. I'll mark it as solved. Now ignore the rant on the first page. I tend to do that when i'm frustrated. I actually really like Unity and Ubuntu! Seriously! Like, i was gonna buy a Mac but Ubuntu talked me out of it! I'm a poor college student anyways! I would have to sell a kidney and a few pints of blood to afford a Mac. XD

---

