---
title: "9.10 Karmic Instant Kernel Panic"
date: 2009-12-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by skrittak on 2009-12-15
Under both 2.6.31-14-generic and 2.6.31-16-generic (this actually happened on a brand new fresh install, tried dist-upgrade but made no difference) upon booting into the desktop environment the pc locks up and the kernel panic keyboard LED's flash.

I can get into the command line via recovery  and that doesn't reproduce the error, i've also tried sudo apt-get install -f which I believe checks for dodgy packages?

Does anyone know of how to find out what's causing this error? I've tried looking for /var/log/kernel.log, got to the /log/ dir but can't actually open the file (linux novice).

Ideas?

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-12-15
Try cat to read the files you find. For example,
```
cd /var/log
ls #to list files and dirs in var/log
cat dmesg #kernel diagnostic message written a boot time
```

Common causes include bad ram or bad sector on hard disk, but this is hardly conclusive. More info is needed like computer make and model, chipset, etc.

Also useful ```
fdisk -ul
```

---

### Post by skrittak on 2009-12-15
Firstly thanks for the reply. OK, cat dmesg on #kernel, didn't understand any of what it produced but this is the last line

```
[      14.533110] type=1505 audit(1260904467.915:21): operation="profile_replace" pid=1087 name=/usr/sbin/tcpdump
```I drilled down to /usr/sbin/ but couldn't open tcpdump (cat dmesg #tcpdump and variations didn't work), the ls # was too big for the screen, is there a way to scroll up?

fdisk -ul

```
Disk /dev/sda: 160GB, 160041885696 bytes 255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders, total 312581808 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk Identifier: 0x24812480
[I]
Device      Boot      Start             End          Block            ID         System[/I]
/dev/sda1    *               63     107764019   53881978+      7      HPFS/NTFS
/dev/sda2           107764020    312560639    102398310       f       W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/sda5           107764083    306423809    99329863+     83      Linux
/dev/sda6           306423873    312560639    3068383+       82      Linux Swap / Solaris

```The HDD is brand new, and I ran chkdsk in windows, and it came up fine. I'm using:

Intel Core 2 Duo 6320 @ 1.86ghz 
2GB RAM
160gb SATA HDD
RT61pci Wireless
Asus P5NSLI MB
Palit 250GTS Green

---

### Post by spiderbatdad on 2009-12-15
ok so when you're looking at commands and a # follows the command, everything after the # is just a comment, not actually part of the command. Forgot you werent in a gnome-terminal. Try ```
cat dmesg | more
```This will only show as much as fills the terminal and  you can use enter to move down. There can be some messages that look alarming, but actually are nothing to worry about. Look for suggestions from the kernel like "Try using acpi-force" Honestly in 5 years of Ubuntu I have only seen a kernel panic once, pathetic I know, It was after a fresh install of Karmic. I resolved by using gparted live and completely re-writng my partition tables, then re-installing the os. If you were trying to locate a string in file you can pipe through grep like so: ```
 cat dmesg | grep APIC 
```
but it has to match, so grep apic might return different results.

---

### Post by skrittak on 2009-12-16
Ok I had a run through dmesg and nothing stands out. There were a couple of things where it says 'try using timer override if problems occur' and things like that, but it didn't actually state a problem with anything. I previously posted the last line of a log that ended in tcpdump, at the end of dmesg just after that line there was a new one:

```
[   14.403644] input: HDA Digital PCBeep as /devices/pci0000:0010000:00:10.1/input/input5
```

Only copied that as obviously the pc beeps when the LED's flash for the first time? Probably not relevant.

---

### Post by skrittak on 2009-12-22
Finally got the damn thing on launchpad:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/499419](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/499419)

Does this help anyone out with diagnosis?

---

