---
title: "12.04 grayscale freezing?"
date: 2012-09-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Shmockey329 on 2012-09-27
So for awhile now i have had problems with my system freezing, it seemed to be a software issue so i saved all my files and did a reinstall. as of 30 mins into this reinstall and re-setup nothing has changed. 
Running hardware:
Gigabyte 78LMT-S2p mobo 
phenom II x 955 @ 3.2 (i think) not overclocked thought that might be the problem and naturalized it but to no avail
 wd 1tb
4 gb ram (i have 16 but thought to simplify to see if that might be an issue as i will explain
Radeon hd 4350 1gb graphics card (hdmi to tv for screen output)

the only thing i have installed on this system currently is the driver for the grfx card

Problems:
my mouse (any of the 3 that i have tried) freeze Firefox (and only firefox (i have tried it in the home folder and Libre office both work) if the left button is pushed
movie players (vlc, Movie  Player, Xine) all freeze when trying to open any type of file
As do rhythm box and amarok for music files
while the desktop and hud keep their color firefox (as of typing this) and movie player both lose color and revert to grayscale
Also my system sound control refuses to work it puts it through the analog output to my externals but not to my tv. the oly way to get it to put out to the hdmi cable is by forcing it to though pulse audio controller. but the delays on  them are just different enought that it makes it unbearable, also the tv ends up distorted. its quite frustrating

i put my hdd in another desktop and it still didnt work which told me its something to do witht the interface and not my hardware. i also took my laptop hdd and tried it in this desktop and it worked flawlessly. they both have the exact same programs on them exluding hardware drivers. this is why i thought a reinstall would probably solve my problems. the grayscale reverts back to color after about 30 mins on a program or upon shutting down the program and restarting it. idk which var logs you might want me to look at and when you let me know i will asap. thank you in advanced for your help

---

### Post by Shmockey329 on 2012-09-27
Also if someone could explain to me why my screen has never touched the borders of my tv (panasonic 32" led) that would be fantastic

---

