---
title: "f-stab f-stab"
date: 2007-12-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bigs11 on 2007-12-09
Can anyone please help?

I have 2 hard drives. The first contains WinXp Pro on one partition, and data files on a second (vfat)
The second hard drive contains 2 logical partitions and a Swap partition. First partition has Ubuntu and the second has Fedora. 
I backed up all old partitions the other day using Acronis True Image. I then reformatted the second disc, and made the 2 logical partition, and a Swap partition. I then restored both Ubuntu and Fedora images to those newly made partitions.
The reason I did this was because I had a mess of partitions on the second disc, and couldn't allocate any more space to Ubuntu.
Anyway, as I expected, I needed to reinstall Grub, linking to Ubuntu's menu.lst. So I edited both Ubuntu and Fedora's menu.lst, and entered the new partition info.
My grub boots into Windows by default. Both Linux systems load and work fine, except for one thing. 
Now when I'm in Ubuntu, Fedora shows up as unmounted, and when I try to access it, it tells me I don't have permission. Also when I look in File System/media, whereas before my Ubuntu partition showed up as sdb1 and let me see the contents,
and my Fedora partition showed up as sdb5 and let me see the contents, now my Ubuntu partition shows up as sdb5 (because it's logical) but displays no contents, and my Fedora partition doesn't show at all. (obviously because it's not mounted)
The only other thing I edited after restoring partition images was the f-stabs on both Ubuntu and Fedora, but all I changed was their new partition locations. Pasted below is my Ubuntu fstab.

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sdb5
UUID=28100efa-b8be-489e-834e-509151d255dd /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=10041A150419FF02 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_AU.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=CAB9-F51B /media/sda5 vfat defaults,utf8,umask=007,gid=46 0 1
 /dev/sdb6
UUID=7e80f236-dfae-46ad-9a8a-8e4627dc967a /media/sdb6     ext3    defaults,rw        0       2
# /dev/sdb7
UUID=19c1942c-a316-4943-bbe7-278ad942406a none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0       0

Any ideas how I can auto mount all my partitions? Is there somewhere else besides fstab that I need to edit? I'm fairly new to this, and at the moment know just enough to be dangerous.
Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2007-12-09
> **Bigs11 said:**
> Can anyone please help?
........
Any ideas how I can auto mount all my partitions? Is there somewhere else besides fstab that I need to edit? I'm fairly new to this, and at the moment know just enough to be dangerous.
Thanks in advance for any help.

Install the **pysdm** package.

---

### Post by Bigs11 on 2007-12-09
> **dcstar said:**
> Install the **pysdm** package.

Thanks for the reply, but where do I get pysdm package. It doesn't show up in Add/Remove packages.

---

### Post by Bigs11 on 2007-12-09
Sorry, found it, installed it, and configured it. Now Fedora mounts and shows up. Don't know about Ubuntu tho, maybe I need a restart.
Thanks for the help.

---

