---
title: "&#120397;&#120410;&#120417;&#120406;&#120425;&#120414;&#120427;&#120410;&#120417;&#120430; lightweight Ubuntu - are there install package preset options?"
date: 2021-03-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Regexaurus on 2021-03-09
I'm new to Lubuntu, and was surprised to discover default inclusion of certain packages / services, in an Ubuntu variant billed as "lightweight".

For example:
[LIST]
[*]LibreOffice
[*]Firefox
[*]Transmission
[*]bluedevil/bluez Bluetooth tools/services/daemon
[*]cups, avahi, ModemManager, etc.
[/LIST]

I understand that depending on the intended use, some or all of these are required/critical. For my purposes, I installed Lubuntu on a Terryza T6 Mini PC (think Intel Compute Stick), to be used as a Rise Vision Media Player (digital signage). The T6 has a fairly low-powered quad-core Atom, and I want to minimize overhead as much as possible, to reserve as many resources as possible for the player software itself, without crippling the player. I want it to be able to handle video/audio well, as well as slides with text and static images, and slide transitions (fade, etc.).

I saw no package options when installing Lubuntu. Are there install profiles (e.g. "minimal") and if so, how/where do I find/select these options?

Thank you!

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2021-03-09
I would [explore Cubic]("https://www.linuxuprising.com/2018/07/how-to-customize-ubuntu-or-linux-mint.html") to create a custom ISO.

---

### Post by tea for one on 2021-03-09
Yes, Cubic is worth investigation. You can remove unnecessary packages and then create a new ISO.

Alternatively, there is a reworked ISO of Xubuntu [https://unit193.net/xubuntu/core/](https://unit193.net/xubuntu/core/)

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2021-03-09
First, I must say, I don't know what this means: "...install package preset options."

Now, packages and services are preinstalled because they are widely used or deemed necessary. Packages like FF, Office and Transmission do not cripple anything, and do not use resources, unless launched by the user. Nothing you've mentioned is actually critical, and can be removed.

Lastly, Ubuntu Mate and Xubuntu have an option for a minimal install, which doesn't include most of the default programs, except Firefox. If you haven't seen anything similar while installing Lubuntu, then it probably isn't there.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2021-03-09
A lightweight Linux distribution means that the desktop system doesn't continuously sap the processor power.  

Gnome is basically a bad computer game that happens to present a desktop and it makes any computer slow.  Anything else is less demanding than the default Ubuntu desktop - Lubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu are all lighter and faster.

If you want raw speed, then you need to install something completely different, such as Slackware or OpenBSD - the difference in speed compared to Ubuntu is absolutely astounding.

If you don't like LibreOffice, then try Abiword and Gnumeric.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2021-03-09
I'm running Lubuntu since a couple of years.
The "lightweight" aspect doesn't apply to the applications, but to the desktop environment.

I'm running on 12 year old laptops with Intel Core Duo and 2 GB of RAM, and they're _fast_. Win10 would need 20 times more potent hardware to even get close.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-03-09
In Ubuntu 20.04, there is a "minimal install" option in many flavors.  When I saw that a a full, bloated, web browser was being included, along with a few other unneeded packages, the team did remove those other packages, but not the browser. They considered that mandatory - it was Firefox. I disagreed, but definitely could see their point. I didn't test all the ubuntu flavors, but I did see that the "minimal" install first installed everything just like a full install, then selectively removed packages at the end.  At the time, I think the install was about 12 minutes.

To my knowledge, all Ubuntu desktops, every flavor have some bloat.  **transmission** is not required.  Oddly, I think bluetooth stuff is, because many people have bluetooth keyboards and expect those to work.  Ubuntu is an OS for humans.

For people seeking the ultimate lightweight distro, you can get down to about 15MB with a light GUI using TinyCore.  Add in a few preinstalled packages and it grows to 65MB - add a few more and it is 130MB - which is still 10x smaller than any Ubuntu desktop flavor.  [http://tinycorelinux.net/](http://tinycorelinux.net/) is where you can find those 3 different levels of tinycore.  They don't have a fancy packaging system, so be aware. OTOH, it might be easiest to just get a fresh version rather than patch every month.  Excellent for online banking, BTW.  Just don't use it for anything else - ever.

On my desktop, I usually purge unwanted packages and install the light versions I prefer in the first 30 minutes after an install. Of your list, all can be removed safely except the bluetooth stuff.  You can disable that and remove/blacklist the bluetooth kernel models so they will only eat storage, but not RAM or CPU.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2021-03-09
You didn't specify release details (*legacy* Lubuntu using LXDE or *modern* Lubuntu using LXQt).  Lubuntu currently has **three** supported installers selected by release & ISO chosen (*you didn't give specifics*).

Minimal install isn't currently offered on any ISO using `calamares` (ie. *modern* Lubuntu); it however is an open task ([https://phab.lubuntu.me/T58](https://phab.lubuntu.me/T58))

To achieve it, the Lubuntu discourse approach can be seen via [https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/what-happened-to-the-meta-mackage-lubuntu-core-in-20-04-lts/1045](https://discourse.lubuntu.me/t/what-happened-to-the-meta-mackage-lubuntu-core-in-20-04-lts/1045)

Legacy Lubuntu provided *lighter* options for many programs ([https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/](https://phab.lubuntu.me/w/bugs/) can be viewed to see a table showing comparison between *legacy*/LXDE releases & *modern*/LXQt releases) but those choices made no sense in a Qt5 environment that is now used.  

**Light** is still a goal of Lubuntu (thus LXQt & it's very light desktop), but it's not the only goal - please refer [URL="https://lubuntu.me/taking-a-new-direction/"]https://lubuntu.me/taking-a-new-direction/
[/URL]

FYI:  my primary desktop is a 2009 dell ([COLOR=#800080]optiplex 960 (c2q-q9400, 8gb, amd/ati cedar radeon hd 5000/6000/7350/8350)[/COLOR]) and it runs great in my opinion.  Most of my testing of Lubuntu & *flavors* is still on *C2D* boxes where a *lightweight* desktop runs best (*with less RAM than my primary box has*).  

I also suspect you're worried about **size of install**; which is less of a consideration ([25GB has been the recommended minimum since 17.10 for Ubuntu desktop]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/SystemRequirements") & *flavors*) , but  there have also been discussions on keeping the ISO small; it currently still fits on a 2GB thumb-drive, which feedback suggested was of more importance than *size-post-install* (*though yes we got numerous requests for a minimal install; thus the aforementioned Lubuntu task*)

---

### Post by Regexaurus on 2021-03-10
Thank you for all the replies, definitely helpful! I'm using Lubuntu 20.04.2 LTS / LXQt. I'm not really concerned about disk storage requirements. I'm primarily concerned with CPU and RAM use. The intended use is essentially a single-function Rise Vision media player (digital signage). I'm aiming to keep OS overhead at a minimum without crippling capability of handling high resolution (2160p) video at 30 fps.

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2021-03-10
> [COLOR=#000000]I'm not really concerned about disk storage requirements. I'm primarily concerned with CPU and RAM use.[/COLOR]
CPU and RAM usage depends on the software running at one given time. It has nothing to do with installed software, as noted above.
You can uninstall most if not all of the software you don't intend to use but if disk storage isn't a concern I would leave them alone.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-03-10
> **nomencl8ure said:**
> Thank you for all the replies, definitely helpful! I'm using Lubuntu 20.04.2 LTS / LXQt. I'm not really concerned about disk storage requirements. I'm primarily concerned with CPU and RAM use. The intended use is essentially a single-function Rise Vision media player (digital signage). I'm aiming to keep OS overhead at a minimum without crippling capability of handling high resolution (2160p) video at 30 fps.

I'd use raspberry pi v4 boxes and a tiny OS specifically created for the system. No way would I run a full desktop. Don't make it easy for the crackers.  

mpv for video playback. Plenty of controls.

For management, the safest way would be to swap in a new microSD card with OS updates and new data, but if you must have it networked, I'd use ssh-only with keys (never passwords) and ansible.  Install fail2ban if you are unwilling to lock down the firewall to prevent 99.999999999% of the internet from any access. Only allow your management IPs access, not the world.  Budget for new microSD media every year, though it won't be needed THAT often if you buy high endurance microSD storage.  Expect to replace the Raspberry Pis every 3 yrs. budget for 1/3 every year to be safe.

But only you know the real requirements.  I keep thinking of a huge sign in my metro area about 10 yrs ago showing an "inappropriate" image for about 5 hrs on one of the busiest streets here. They had poor security.  A few years ago, the electronic speed-limit signs were cracked here too.  Again, poor security.

---

### Post by Regexaurus on 2021-03-10
> **TheFu said:**
> ...I keep thinking of a huge sign in my metro area about 10 yrs ago showing an "inappropriate" image for about 5 hrs on one of the busiest streets here.
Oh, geez. :oops:
Thankfully, these are not high-traffic, high-profile signs, though the pay would/should be better... :-k
They're for inside an office building of a nonprofit org. Still, I don't wish to be wiping egg off my face anytime soon.
I'm fairly security minded and have been considering some of the implications. The Rise Vision media players require Internet access, so must be networked. I'll likely end up putting them on an untrusted VLAN. I'm moderately concerned about physical access to the media player hardware. BIOS/UEFI admin is password protected, and I'm trying to find out how to disable boot for anything (e.g. network, USB) besides internal storage, or if that's possible. I did install openssh-server and considered configuring sshd to allow only keys for authentication. I don't think that would interfere with automatic local sign on...? Which brings up another point. For the Rise Vision media player to launch automatically "on boot", it requires a user to automatically sign on. To satisfy that requirement, during Lubuntu installation, I checked the option to automatically login. That seems like a big hole for local/physical access security, but I don't know of a way around it. As far as I know, there is no support for running the Rise Vision media player as a daemon/service that loads without a user first signing on.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2021-03-10
Well, create a separate user account that can only run the intended software, nothing else.  Don't let it have a real shell.
There's lots of old-school Unix security techniques which have been forgotten. They still work, but you need to do the research.

Don't allow auto login to any account that provides a generic shell.
Physically secure the systems. Use a long video cable though a wall if you must.

Don't allow bluetooth or wifi.  I've actually had a 24 hour old, fresh install AND freshly patched system with wifi disabled, no network cable connected, hacked over bluetooth.  I didn't realize that Ubuntu enabled bluetooth without asking. Since then, I remove the bluetooth kernel modules from the systems. 

Firewall everything to prevent inbound or outbound access except to the specific locations required to perform the exact tasks.

And don't run any Ubuntu desktop on this hardware.  Use a specialized, stripped down, install.

VLANs aren't real security, unless all the unwanted VLAN IDs are filtered from the wires.  VLANs are just suggestions.

And that sign was a billboard - probably 50 ft by 30 ft near an intersection that thousands of vehicles traversed every few minutes.

---

