---
title: "10.10 Won't Boot. Recovery Mode &quot;cannot open display&quot;"
date: 2011-01-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by subsynth on 2011-01-08
So I was tweaking around with stuff and was trying to disable app armor like I had successfully done on another machine.

Upon reboot it would hang.

I booted into recovery mood and reinstalled apparmor via the CLI.

It rebooted to login but it was asking for my password (previous set to auto login) and each time I put in the password it went back to the login

I booted into recovery and reset the user password via CLI

Regular booting hangs at the blinking cursor

Recovery booting works fine but when attempting to launch nautilus i get this error:
cannot parse argument: cannot open display

Any suggestions? I really don't want to have to reinstall everything. (this machine is a stripped down install running boxee.

ETA

startx brings up black screen with cursor, mouse moves cursor but nothing else.

ALT Fx does nothing...

lspci says I have  Intel 82865G it's integrated into the motherboard.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-08
What about running recovery and booting choosing 'failsafe x' at the recovery options. Any different? Whatever you did may have switched off the graphics driver if you have one (don't ask why but it is 10.10). At least that way you can check (unless you know how to through CLI). Check in System >Admin >Additional Drivers, but you probably already know that. Then 'Activate' and see if that makes any difference. 

Did you do any updates recently (kernel for instance)?

---

### Post by subsynth on 2011-01-08
failsafex doesn't work, the monitor goes into power save like it's not connected to anything.

I booted into recovery of the previous kernel and get same results

service gdm start causes the screen to flash back and forth a few times and then do nothing.

So it appears I'm missing or disabled a graphic driver. It was not an "additional hardware driver"

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-08
That's what it seems. Not sure how to fix but will keep thinking. Keep us informed of your progress.

---

### Post by subsynth on 2011-01-08
my xorg.conf is blank... so I'm looking into that..

ETA

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
does nothing

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-08
Odd. This is all I have in mine if that's any help. The graphics driver lines are off course probably wrong for your machine but I am running 10.10:

```
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Default Device"
        Driver  "fglrx"
EndSection
```

Maybe you could try adding just the screen lines. 

I remember there being a whole lot more in 8.04 LTS, even before I started messing with it. This maybe changed in new in the 10.** releases also.

---

### Post by subsynth on 2011-01-08
I tried everything I could think of. I currently have swapped hard drives and I'm reinstalling, I still have the old setup untouched on the other drive. But I've had some other weirdness so I'm thinking it may be the HD...

still open to suggestions if I can get my old setup back up and running.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-01-08
I've just gotten up and a bit blurry but I did have a flash on arising (I said a flash, lol).

There must be a log somewhere which contains the details of packages you've recently removed. If you could find that you could possibly just reinstall the same ones and with any luck things would be back to normal. Presuming this is your problem, of course; missing files. It could just be missing graphics driver which is more likely (or switched off).

---

### Post by Mrs Twaddle on 2011-02-28
I think this is the same problem that I am having.
I just run an upgrade and now it won't boot.
I can get it to boot if i select netroot in the recovery option then type startx
I get a fully working root desktop then.
Can't figure out why i can't boot normally tho.

---

