---
title: ".Sh will not work when link is made"
date: 2010-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KainPen on 2010-11-01
Hey Everyone I just start to learn about make .Sh files and running them. I managed to make one and got my Air Card working. Made a Link to on the desktop and it runs with no issues.
Now i am tring to get one to run a Java program i use. 
I currently have the .sh file in the directory where the Jar file is that need to be run. and if i go there and click the .sh file tell it to run in thermal. my Java program starts no issue.

But if i make a Link to it and place it on the desktop the Java program will no longer start.
#!/bin/bash
java -Xmx1024m -Xss512k -XX:MaxPermSize=128m -Dsun.java2d.ddoffscreen=false -Dsun.java2d.noddraw -Dsun.java2d.d3d=false -jar d20Pro.jar
exit
I noticed my exit command does not get a chance to run either. so the thermal window does not close after the Java program starts any suggestion.

---

### Post by Wayne_V on 2010-11-01
try adding a "cd <path to d20Pro.jar>" before trying to run it.

---

### Post by KainPen on 2010-11-02
did not work.
currently reads
#!/bin/bash
cd d20Pro 
java -Xmx1024m -Xss512k -XX:MaxPermSize=128m -Dsun.java2d.ddoffscreen=false -Dsun.java2d.noddraw -Dsun.java2d.d3d=false -jar d20Pro.jar
exit

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-11-02
use full path to d20pro to be sure you are in the right place (/home/yourname/d20pro or whatever it is), probably launcher doesn't start in user's home so relative paths fail - cd d20pro means 'go to the d20pro dir which is located in current dir'. If the current dir is not the same you think it is, then the cd command will fail.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2010-11-02
Hi

Try the full absolute path.

Kind regards

---

### Post by KainPen on 2010-11-02
still no luck must be something with java.

when i run the .sh from directory it is located in it says invaded directory in terminal window then program loads.????? 

when tring to run from link the terminal  window pops up then closes no program start. is there a command to make terminal window stay open???

---

