---
title: "GPU lockup error/black screen 12.10"
date: 2012-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by acidblue on 2012-10-24
After a fresh install of 12.10 i login but get a black screen for a few moments then a terminal with a GPU lock up error, then back to the login prompt.

Toshiba satellite P15-S479
Nvidia G-Force Fx5200 go

Cannot log into my new install, I chose the "install 3rd party software option" when I installed.

Thought that might download and install the nvidia driver, but I guess not.

Any suggestions??

---

### Post by Immolatus on 2012-10-25
I looked up the card and nvidia does have Linux drivers to support it.

you might try CTRL + ALT + F1 at the login screen.
this will bring you to run level 1 (TTY1)
login at the prompt and do:

sudo apt-get install nvidia-current




the password here is your login password.:popcorn:

---

### Post by acidblue on 2012-10-25
Ok That sort of helps.
I can get a desktop, but no icons and the mouser flikers and dissapears
ocassionally.

I have to use keyboard shortcuts to get to a terminal to run apps.

I checked the display and it says im using the following:
Vesa: nv34 e133 ln.
Which is not my nvidia card.

So it's using the vesa driver, not the "nividia-current" i installed
using your suggestion(thanks btw).

Need a little more help.

---

### Post by timgood on 2012-10-25
Uninstall the driver:

```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-current
```

Then: ```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic nvidia-current
```

Reboot and you should be OK.

---

### Post by acidblue on 2012-10-25
> **timgood said:**
> Uninstall the driver:

```
sudo apt-get remove nvidia-current
```

Then: ```
sudo apt-get install linux-headers-generic nvidia-current
```

Reboot and you should be OK.


No Go.
linux-headers-generic already newest version is what apt-get tells me.
I re-installed anyway but have same poblem.

the Vesa driver is loading.
Can't I blacklist it, or change it in xorg.conf??

EDIT:
I installed 'gnome-session-fallback"
So I could get a usable desktop.
I treid using the "Nvidia X Server Settings" in the System Tools section.
It said I wasn't using the nvidia driver,(no kidding) and that i should run "nividia-xconfig" as root, which I did.
Now My resolution is stuck at 800x600 :(.

Here is my xconf:
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 304.43  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-02.nvidia.com)  Sun Aug 19 21:28:54 PDT 2012


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-10-25
Hi!, **acidblue**,

For an nvidia GeForce FX5xxx video card you need the nvidia-173, you should find it in Synaptic Package Manager if it is not listed in Additional Drivers.

The latest version from the nvidia website is 173.14.36, but in 12.10,  SPM lists three versions: nvidia-173; nvidia-173-dev; and nvidia-173-updates-dev, all as version 173.14.35.

Whether a 'FX5200 go' will run OK with 12.10, I do not know; it certainly ran in 12.04 but in Unity 2D.

Chao!,** bogan**.

---

### Post by acidblue on 2012-10-25
Where is Synaptic??
I don't see it listed any where.

Tried software center but it giving this error:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:

nvidia-173: Depends: x11-common (>= 1:7.0.0) but 1:7.7+1ubuntu4 is to be installed
            Depends: xorg-video-abi-12 but it is not going to be installed
            Depends: xserver-xorg-core (>= 2:1.10.99.901) but 2:1.13.0-0ubuntu6 is to be installed

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-10-25
Hi!,** acidblue,**

Synaptic is no longer included with the kernal installation, you need to install it. ```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install synaptic
```Chao!,** bogan.**

---

### Post by acidblue on 2012-10-25
I can't install the nvidia-173 driver.
I'm getting a "Depends: xorg-video-abi-12 but it is not going to be installed" error.
Says this is not installable :(.

What now?

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-10-25
> **acidblue said:**
> I can't install the nvidia-173 driver.
I'm getting a "Depends: xorg-video-abi-12 but it is not going to be installed" error.
Says this is not installable :(.

What now?
Sorry, that's beyond my know-how, perhaps someone else can assist.

Good Luck. Chao!, **bogan**

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-10-26
Hi!, **acidblue**,

I do not know if this is anything to do with your difficulty in installing the 173 driver, but you should check out the /etc/modeprobe.d folder.

If there is a file called 'nvida-graphics-conf' you should re-name it to something like: 'nvida-graphics-legacy' - the name must not end in ".conf".

The main purpose of this file is to blacklist the nouveau driver so it does not conflict with the nvidia driver, but in this case it also blacklists the nvidia-173 driver.

Chao!, **bogan.**

---

### Post by acidblue on 2012-10-30
I never got this to work in 12.10.
I installed 11.10 and got a prompt after reboot to install the nividia driver, which is how I remember Ubuntu working before all this Unity stuff.

I might try 12.04, downloading it right now as a matter of fact.

EDIT:
12.04 is installed and works ok, nvidia driver from repos woks!
Only problem was I was getting a system error pop up window, it appaers
it was jocky-gtk that was the offending item, I did an upgrade of jocky-gtk
but still get the pop window with the error.

---

