---
title: "11.04 Screen Display"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Misiu10 on 2011-05-02
Hello everyone,

New to the forums and have a problem I am looking for help/advice on:

I have recently installed Ubuntu onto an older PC of mine (Pentium 4, duel-boot using wubi).  The only screen I have for it is a TV screen (about a year old with VGA input).  The screen works fine when Windows XP is live, but when I boot into Ubuntu things go downhill.

Its hard to describe exactly what is happening... Basically I have no control over which window is visible at a given time.  Functionality still works, the machine can tell which window has focus and where I can click, but the visuals do not correspond.  If I try to open a menu or drop-down it flickers in and out of sight and when multiple windows are open it is a crapshoot as to which will be visible.

I have been trying to solve this for a few days now and any help would be appreciated, even if it's just advice as to which tree I should be barking-up.

Thanks in advance, and apologies if I have posted this in the wrong place.

-M

---

### Post by K4NEB on 2011-05-02
the moniter / screen / tv in yiour case only displays what the computer is telling it too.

thats my impression anyway. so i would say your screen is not at fault

---

### Post by Misiu10 on 2011-05-02
Thanks K4,

I don't think the screen is at fault.  The screen works perfectly well with the windows boot and there are no faults with it when it is connecting to other devices.  My assumption is that the graphics driver Ubuntu has, or has decided on, is having compatibility problems but I have no idea how to check this or change it.

My perusing of other forum posts have so far failed, I was hoping someone could give this problem a personal touch.

---

