---
title: "18.04LTS Desktop NFS permission problems"
date: 2020-08-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-08-20
Manually mounting NFS shares

host: /etc/exports
```

/home/myfileserver  xps13(rw,sync,no_root_squash,no_subtree_check,all_squash)

```

ls -la /home/myfileserver
```

drwxrwxr-x  5 nobody nogroup 4096 Aug 20 17:09 .
drwxr-xr-x 12 fpolan fpolan  4096 Apr 29 11:09 ..
-rwxrw-r--  1 laozi  laozi    552 Aug  1  2018 homes (t110) (T) - Shortcut.lnk
drwxrwxrwx  6 laozi  laozi   4096 Aug 12 03:17 personal
-rw-rw-r--  1 laozi  laozi   2190 Jul 13  2015 security.conf
-rw-rw-r--  1 root   root    2190 Aug 12  2013 security.conf_t110
drwxrwxr-x  8 laozi  laozi   4096 Aug  4 09:37 techieStuff


-rw-r--r--  1 nobody nogroup   24 Aug 20 17:11 test.txt
drwxrwxr-x  2 laozi  laozi   4096 Aug 23  2015 x86

```

Client:
manually mounted /home/myfileserver
```

sudo mount 192.168.1.89:/home/myfileserver /mnt

```

ls -la /mnt
```

drwxrwxr-x  5 nobody nogroup 4096 Aug 20  2020 .
drwxr-xr-x 27 root   root    4096 Aug 17 10:05 ..
-rwxrw-r--  1   1000    1000  552 Aug  1  2018 homes (t110) (T) - Shortcut.lnk
drwxrwxrwx  6   1000    1000 4096 Aug 12 03:17 personal
-rw-r--r--  1 nobody nogroup    0 Aug 20  2020 per.txt
-rw-rw-r--  1   1000    1000 2190 Jul 13  2015 security.conf
-rw-rw-r--  1 root   root    2190 Aug 12  2013 security.conf_t110
drwxrwxr-x  8   1000    1000 4096 Aug  4 09:37 techieStuff
-rw-r--r--  1 nobody nogroup   24 Aug 20 17:11 test.txt
drwxrwxr-x  2   1000    1000 4096 Aug 23  2015 x86

```
Directory mounts okay. Can create and save new files with nano. owner/group nobody/nogroup
When editing existing files with SublimeText3 it asks for password on each save. Brackets errors and won't save.
What do I have to do to owners/permissions to make it all work
Thanks
Frank

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-08-20
Do the userid and groupid match between the two systems?  That's key for NFS.
Also, you probably want to export using async unless this is a DBMS being accessed over the LAN.  sync will kill performance.
On the client side, if the network is 100base-tx or faster, use the tcp option on the mount.

My client-side options are:
-t nfs -o proto=tcp,intr,rw,async

But the numbers for each userid and groupid need to match on the client and server. Then standard Unix permissions work.

Please don't use 777 permissions. Please.  If you need multiple accounts to have access to the same directories, place those userids into the same group and force the groupid on the directory to be that shared group. There are ways to force all newly created files and sub-dirs to have that group too using the setgid permission bit.  Search for "working together"  and chmod in these forums for those steps.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-08-21
Yes the userids and groupids don't match. 
there's only one user on the system I need to change so I assuming that I have to create another user on the system and use it to change the original user.
Is that correct?
Thanks
Frank

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-08-21
Technically, they uid/gid don't HAVE to match, but if there are users or groups with the same uid or gid on the different systems, those will have the same access and controls as the real owner and group.  The least trouble solution is to have userids and groupids (the numbers, not necessarily the names) match between all systems.  Enterprises handle this by using LDAP for user management. That forces all the uid/gid to be consistent across all systems.

Just make those numbers match on all systems.  How is a different question.  I would just manually edit the passwd and group files, ensuring they are "consistent".  Of course, before changing them, make a copy of the files first so if something bad happens, you can put them back.

The files to be checked are all in /etc/
[LIST]
[*]passwd
[*]group
[*]shadow (doubt any changes are needed)
[*]gshadow (doubt any changes are needed)
[/LIST]

Each has a manpage that describes the layout for the file.  If there are other ways, I don't know.  These changes don't magically change anything on the file systems, so those changes have to be handled separately - just use chown, chgrp and chmod as needed.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-08-22
I think I've got it working now but I suggest you don't recommend anyone try to change the uid / gid unless they'really know what they're doing :-)
If I hadn't had ssh access it would have been a complete reinstall. The desktop wouldn't let me log in after I changed the uid. but I could login via ssh and eventually created a new user, deleted the original user, and recreated the original user  with the uid / gid Ineeded..

Thanks
Frank

---

### Post by TheFu on 2020-08-22
> **Frank P said:**
> I think I've got it working now but I suggest you don't recommend anyone try to change the uid / gid unless they'really know what they're doing :-)
If I hadn't had ssh access it would have been a complete reinstall. The desktop wouldn't let me log in after I changed the uid. but I could login via ssh and eventually created a new user, deleted the original user, and recreated the original user  with the uid / gid Ineeded..

You can fix almost any issue by booting from a _Try Ubuntu_ boot flash drive. Reinstall is seldom required, though if you have  good backups, then a reinstall plus recovery should be less than 30 minutes.

Could have used the Try Ubuntu to make the changes too, but I've done it a few times on running systems for normal user accounts. Worked fine.  Just don't dally, be fast when editing on the live system. Be quick with any chown & chgrp commands. I would have done the changes on the nfs server side, not the desktops to minimize impacts, but your setup may be mixed use. Only you would know that.

---

### Post by Frank P on 2020-08-23
Makes sense - the 2nd times always easier anyway
Thanks
Frank

---

