---
title: "Sharing folders"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bilijoe on 2008-05-10
I have several computers connected together via a LAN (Ethernet).  Originally, they were all running Windows XP, but common sense has had me converting them, one by one, over to Ubuntu-Linux.  As the computers were converted, my network appeared to remain intact, with all the computers showing up under "Places > Network" as "Windows Network", under which was my workgroup, named "Sierrans", under which each computer showed up, identified by its (Windows) name.  I am now down to only one computer still running Windows (XP), which may remain a Windows machine, because it is my son's computer, and he is a gamer.  He is also an artist, and needs access to the printers and scanners on the network.  Yesterday I needed to make accessible some data on one of the most recently converted computers, a Compaq notebook, running 64-bit Ubuntu 8.04.  I went in and marked the folder to be shared, and got the message that sharing was not installed, along with the option to install it.  I clicked on "install" and everything appeared to go smoothly.  After the installation finished, I marked the folder as shared, and the little hand, indicating a shared folder appeared with the folder's icon.  I then went to the machine that needed the data (a Dell Desktop, running Ubuntu 7.10), and opened "Places > Network".  As usual, I got the icon labeled "Windows Network".  This time when I clicked on it however, instead of the workgroup "Sierrans" showing up, two workgroups appeared; Sierrans, and one named "workgroup".  I opened Sierrans, and all the computers on the neetwork had disappeared, except for the one which is still a Windows machine.  I opened "workgroup" and found only the one computer on which I had just set up the shared folder.  The shared folder was there, and the data accessible, so, to some degree, I had succeeded, but I don't want a workgroup named "workgroup"; I want the computer that is in "workgroup" in Sierrans, and I want the computers that disappeared from Sierrans, back in Sierrans.  The system would not let me move the one computer out of workgroup and into Sierrans, nor would it let me delete or rename "workgroup".  The message was something close to "operation not supported by back end" (I should have written down the exact wording).  It was late, so I packed it in for the night.  Today, I thought maybe the computer on which I was trying to access the shared folder did not have sharing installed on it either, so I went in and marked my "Public" folder to be shared.  I got a slightly different message from what I had seen on the other machine, but the idea was the same; "Sharing services are not installed.  You need to install at least either Samba or NFS in order to share your folders."  Then there was an option to install NFS, and an option to install "_S_MB", both checked by default.  So, I clicked the "install services" button.  The window disappeared, the cursor turned into the little whirly, for a second or two, then the exact same message window re-appeared.:confused:  I clicked the install button again--same result.  Being an old Unix hack (in a previous life, I was a Unix system administrator, though I've forgotten most of what I knew, so now I'm a newbie again), I am not particularly timid about becoming a super user, so I logged out, and logged back in as root, thinking maybe the install was failing because I lacked the appropriate privileges.  Nope.  Same exact results.  Back in normal user mode, I began prowling around, and discovered that, according to Synaptic, both NFS and Samba are already installed.  So, why won't the system allow me to share a folder?  Why does it think neither Samba nor NFS is installed?  Why do I have a workgroup named "workgroup"?  Why can't I move the one computer in workgroup into Sierrans?  Why can't I rename or delete "workgroup"?  (I tried doing all this stuff as root, BTW, so it isn't a matter of privileges or authorization.)  Why did my other computers disappear from Sierrans, and how do I get them back?  All the networking was working so well, until I marked the folder on my laptop as "shared".  Now I have a mess, and it appears to me that the network tools available under "System > Administration" are entirely inadequate to make the kind of changes it seems I need to make.  HELP!  PLEASE!  SOMEBODY! ](*,)  (BTW, I posted this under General, and not under networking, because I don't know if it's a network problem, a software problem, or a computer ID problem.  I'm sorry if this isn't the right place for this post, but the situation seems to raise questions, for me, anyway, that are not specifically network related.)  As usual, any helpful information or advice will be greatly appreciated.:)

---

