---
title: "amd64 7.04+nvidia-settings+twinview+big problem"
date: 2007-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by treeby on 2007-05-08
I have a geforce7600GT, feisty AMD64 version and a TV that I want to watch movies on. I also have another little monitor hooked up that i would like to use as a second monitor when i don't need the tv.
however, any time that i want to change anything in nvidia-settings, like when i try to activate the tv
everything gets all pixalated on the bottom half of the screen and the upper half is black (one time in the lower half even i had some images of the vista logout screen???) then once the time period is over for you to say if you want to keep the settings (i can't say whether or not i do since everything is pixalated nonsense) i 
just get a big black screen where i can see just fine my mouse but nothing else. then since i didn't save
anything, when i restart, everything's back to normal but i still can't use my tv or other monitor. has
anyone else had this problem? is this an nvidia thing or a AMD64 thing or just me?

should i not use nvidia-settings and just configure my xorg.config file myself?
i'm at work or else i would post it. if you think it would help let me know and i'll post it when i get home.

i also have beryl installed...don't know if that matters
and all these things work just fine on my vista dual boot...which i would really, really like to stop having to use...
thanks for any help!

---

### Post by treeby on 2007-05-11
bumb

NO ONE has had this problem? should i post this somewhere else? 
thanks for any help

---

### Post by Hobo Joe on 2007-05-12
I have this problem, a solution would be nice.

I'm trying to run Twinveiw with dual monitors with beyrl, and I get the same problem you described.

---

### Post by treeby on 2007-05-13
one thing that kinda helped but the problem is still there is i turned off the blur effects in beryl....now when i turn on twinview i get either 1) a pixalated screen followed by a black screen or 2) a big black corner on each of  the monitors and icons and panels just randomly placed...but at least i can click that i don't want the settings and i don't have to reboot.

please any help on this would be really nice. even something like 'there is no solution, wait for updates'

thanks

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-05-13
Can you post your /etc/X11/xorg.conf so we can take a look?

---

### Post by treeby on 2007-05-18
thanks...here's the xorg.conf file:


# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Nov  9 17:55:59 PST 2006

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder26)  Thu Nov  9 17:56:28 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic Q20wb"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 82.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Videocard0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 7600 GT"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Videocard0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Option         "AddARGBGLXVisuals" "True"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-05-18
I can see the problem right away.  It states right in the documentation that beryl does not work with xinerama.

You are out of luck with this set-up.  

I use twinview with beryl and it all works fine.  There is a how-to for twinview in the forums here, and it only involves adding 3 or 4 lines to your x-org to get the dual monitors working.

---

### Post by treeby on 2007-05-18
but i thought that i was using twinview with the nvidia-settings??? that's what i would put it on...
i thought that was my problem...that when i did put it on twinview that's when i'd get my problems...

---

### Post by rsambuca on 2007-05-19
Twinview and Xinerama are two different methods for using a dual monitor set-up.

You will have to remove the xinerama first, and then set-up twinview, which is very easy.  Here is a [[COLOR="Red"]how-to[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=1773584").

---

### Post by treeby on 2007-05-20
but that's what i followed...i did sudo nvidia-settings...went into the nvidia control panel thing and
turned off xinerama and everything else and put it on twinview. as soon as i put it on twinview that's
when i have the problem. do i have to like delete everything completely?

---

