---
title: "9.o4 download"
date: 2009-09-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mickfost on 2009-09-17
I am new to this and I have just downloaded Ubunto 9.04 and saved it to desk top but now I am unable to open it ,ant Ideas any one.Many Thanks

---

### Post by lindsay7 on 2009-09-17
This should be an ISO file. You need to burn this to a cd with a program that can burn an ISO file to a cd.  You then use the cd to boot up your computer.

---

### Post by nikhilbhardwaj on 2009-09-17
im assuming its an iso
you'll need to burn it to a cd
and install ubuntu from it

you can also use tools like daemon tools if you are using windows

---
there you go lindsay7 had already posted

---

### Post by raseel on 2009-09-17
As other posters have mentioned, it's best to burn a CD with the ISO file and install Ubuntu.

However, another way is to boot up Ubuntu using that ISO file from a Virtual machine if you have something like VMWare or VirtualBox installed on your system.

If you have no idea what Virtual Machines are, I think it's best to burn the CD.

---

### Post by marcopolo1981 on 2009-09-17
If you haven't got a iso burning program for windows, there is a free one at [http://isorecorder.alexfeinman.com/isorecorder.htm](http://isorecorder.alexfeinman.com/isorecorder.htm) and download the software for your current OS.

Then go to [http://www.petri.co.il/how_to_write_iso_files_to_cd.htm](http://www.petri.co.il/how_to_write_iso_files_to_cd.htm) and follow the instructions it gives for "ISO Recorder Power Toy (Freeware)".

Once that has completed, reinsert the cd and reboot your computer. At boot, you may have to press on of the 'F' buttons to select which device to boot from, if it doesn't automatically boot from the cd. It normally tells you at the bottom of the screen which 'F' button to press, but you will have to be quick.

Once successfully booted from the cd, just follow the instruction that it gives you. I am assuming that you downloaded the Live CD version?

If you need any help beyond this point, please post back.

Mark

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-09-17
A word of warning!  There are monsters in the woods!

Ask about partitioning before you do it.

You may not want to wipe out your current OS (even if it is the "other" (hack, cough) OS).

If you want to keep it, there are several tutorials on the subject.

Let us know what you want to do, and we'll direct you to the right resources.

---

### Post by modifiedreality on 2009-09-17
You could always use WUBI and install Ubuntu from windows.

---

### Post by QIII on 2009-09-17
Wubi is best used as a temporary solution for trying Ubuntu out. 

A Wubi install can be made into an install in its own partition, but that is a tale for another day.

Not that I am recommending against it, per se, but just pointing out my humble opinion.

---

