---
title: "18.04 hung at unity-greeter"
date: 2020-06-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nickolai_Leschov on 2020-06-13
I have had a functional Ubuntu 18.04 system with Unity and unity-greeter installed. Now, after a while, it started hanging at unity-greeter: the greeter is displayed fine, but the computer doesn't react to keyboard nor mouse and I cannot switch to alternate terminals with Ctrl+Alt+F1, Ctrl+Alt+F2 etc.

I am able to boot to GRUB and choose alternate kernels to boot into, with or without recovery mode, but it hangs all the same.

The system is configured with LVM and full disk encryption. I am able to enter encryption password at the prompt, then hit Esc key to see diagnostic messages scrolling by, then the system is hung at the greeter.

**Where do I look to figure out what's wrong?** I suspect it's something video drivers or X-related, because I switched to the latest video drivers, X and stuff in order to optimize my gaming performance. I was going to switch from PlayOnLinux to Lutris, and started by installing the recommended drivers, latest Wine, then switching to the LTS Enablement Stack (just in case) and whatnot (I intended to document the changes, but haven't gotten around to it).

---

### Post by MoebusNet on 2020-06-14
Wow! I hadn't realized there was a Unity-centric community dedicated to keeping Unity going for Ubuntu at: [https://ubuntuunity.org/](https://ubuntuunity.org/)

When I looked though, there wasn't any activity on their forum. Maybe their Twitter account or something would be a place to inquire. Canonical gave up on Unity when 18.04 first came out.

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2020-06-15
> **MoebusNet said:**
> Wow! I hadn't realized there was a Unity-centric community dedicated to keeping Unity going for Ubuntu at: [https://ubuntuunity.org/](https://ubuntuunity.org/)

When I looked though, there wasn't any activity on their forum. Maybe their Twitter account or something would be a place to inquire. Canonical gave up on Unity when 18.04 first came out.

  Most of the discussions are here [https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/desktop/ubuntu-unity-dev](https://discourse.ubuntu.com/c/desktop/ubuntu-unity-dev)

---

### Post by Nickolai_Leschov on 2020-08-03
I'd like to ask you not to write this off as a Unity problem. This is a Ubuntu problem:

**How do I recover a system that is hung at the greeter?**

---

