---
title: ".txt files, Ubuntu and other operating systems"
date: 2006-02-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gimbo on 2006-02-27
I assumed that plain old .txt files would be just about *the* most suitable "cross-platform" file type, and that a .txt file would look the same in Ubuntu, Windows XP, Mac OS X or any other modern operating system.

In my limited experience, this doesn't seem to be so. Text files created in gedit (Ubuntu 5.10) do **not** display the same in Notepad (Windows XP). Line breaks get converted into that box symbol that Windows uses when it doesn't know what the character is. The result is one big, messy paragraph full of little boxes where the line breaks should be.

I have a vague understanding of the concept of character encoding, but I'm pretty much ignorant of the details (I've no idea what the practical differences are between ISO and UTF-8, for example). I assume the reason Notepad can't display the line breaks is that it's using different character encoding, but I could of course be completely wrong.

If anyone could clarify the reasons behind all this, and suggest a solution (or even just a sensible default encoding to use), I'd be very grateful.

---

### Post by procras on 2006-02-27
One of the biggest issues is how the end of a line is represented.
This may be by a single character or by two characters.

The character encoding is also important.

Most Linux editors contain commands to change the line feeds etc from one type to another.

eg. in vim you can set the fileformat to whatever you want and the editor will do the work for you.
:set ff=unix 
Sets the format for Linux
:set ff=dos sets it for winblows

You can examine a file in Linux with the file command
file <name> will return
file: ASCII English text, with CRLF line terminators
For a dos type file and
file <name> will return
file: ASCII English text

For and ordinary linux file.

There are other utilities around such as todos and tounix or something like that

Have fun!

---

