---
title: "16.04 on compaq d530--need help"
date: 2016-05-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by benji6 on 2016-05-26
Hi! I tried to run Lubuntu 16.04 on said desktop computer to no avail. The live version will not work. The installer will run, but it will not boot once installed. Is there any hope?

Here is the hardware:

Pentium 4 cpu 2.60 ghz
2573MB ram
Integrated graphics

Any other information will be forthcoming, if needed. Otherwise, I await suggestions on how to make this work.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-05-26
You may need to boot the live system with the **nomodeset** boot option in order to get a GUI desktop in Lubuntu with that old Intel P4 which will probably use very old graphics such as Intel 945.

Once at the GUI even though at low resolution, you should be able to install as usual.  Now when you reboot to the installed OS you will again need to use the nomodeset boot option by hitting "E" for Edit when in the grub menu.  You will have to hold shift at power-on if this is a single OS machine in order to see the grub menu.  Add the word **nomodeset** after quiet splash in the kernel line, then hit F10 to boot using that boot-option.

Once you get to the desktop update in the usual manner and also install **xserver-xorg-video-intel** package which for some reason is not installed by default on machines with this old graphics chip.

I had the same problem with an old netbook as shown in thread at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2321734](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2321734)

---

### Post by benji6 on 2016-05-26
The integrated graphics controller is 82865g, which I imagine is an earlier version. I did load up the live version using nomodeset as you suggested. Currently working on a new install. So far so good.

UPDATE: Running Lubuntu from hard drive, now. Relatively simple fix for how big a problem I thought this was. Thank you.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2016-05-28
Good. If you have installed the Intel drivers then you could remove nomodeset.

---

