---
title: "Low Graphis Mode on Start Up"
date: 2008-04-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jpw27 on 2008-04-08
I just moved to a new HDD a few days ago, and now whenever I reboot/turn on I start in low graphics mode.  I can go a tty and install the nVidia drivers, and then restart X and everything's good, but it is slightly annoying if I have to reinstall drivers everytime I turn on my computer.  Can anyone help?

---

### Post by Crushyerbones on 2008-04-08
I had that problem and decided to backup my home folder and install hardy.

Recently though, I've witnessed something similiar which I fixed by doing this:

run synaptic
type in linux-image and REMOVE EVERYTHING with that name
install or reinstall linux-image (yes, that's the real name of the package)

Basicaly this makes sure you're using the latest linux image

do the same for linux-image-generic and linux-restricted-modules

IMPORTANT: MAKE SURE YOU DON'T REBOOT WITH NO LINUX IMAGE. I never tried it but I'm sure it won't be pretty.

---

### Post by jpw27 on 2008-04-08
I have not really looked at Hardy, but I'm backing up right now in preparation for reinstalling Gutsy if necessary.  But the thing is, each time when I reinstall the nVidia drivers, it says I already have them installed, so it seems like I need to set the default driver or something.  I'll Google around a bit and see if I find anything.

Thanks for the tip about linux-image, I'll try it.

---

### Post by jpw27 on 2008-04-08
All to no avail.  Tried reinstalling linux-image, tried a multitude of nvidia-xconfig options, tried just about everything I could think of.

If anybody knows anything about why it isn't using the nVidia drivers as default, please say, it's really starting to bug me.

---

### Post by jpw27 on 2008-04-09
I've figured out (I think) that for some reason Gutsy is using a failsafe xorg.conf every time I boot.  I tried to get around this by copying the nVidia created xorg.conf into the failsafe.  But it generates a new failsafe each time it boots, so it wasn't much use.  What could cause it to use the failsafe each time it boots?  I don't think there is anything wrong with the xorg.conf generated by nvidia-xconfig, because I can install and use it fine, it just doesn't stick through a reboot.  

Installing drivers every time I turn on my computer is becoming increasingly frustrating.  Does anybody know why it uses the failsafe each boot, or how I could stop it from generating the failsafe so I could 'trick it' into thinking the nvidia-xconfig generated one is the failsafe?

---

