---
title: "12.04 Upgrade Font Issue"
date: 2012-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by drmrgd on 2012-04-30
I upgraded my virtual machine to 12.04, and was a bit surprised to see that it killed my conky (no biggie to fix I'm sure), and changed my font resolution.  Even though the font sizes have not changed in the system settings, they are extra large all of the sudden, and have made my windows huge.  I took a quick screenshot to sort of demonstrate how certain fonts have stayed the same size (window titles, Kickoff Menu, Task Manager), but others are super large now (Dolphin, System Settings, Conky, Kate (not shown)). Unfortunately, I can't find any screenshots before the upgrade to show as a comparison.  Since I haven't yet updated my home computer and I'm using the same exact setup there, I can attach one when I get home if it helps to see what's going on.

Does anyone know why the fonts are larger than indicated (no way it's a size 9 font!), and how best to fix it.  I tried to just lower the font size.  However, it seems that the fonts switch over to the light version instead of regular, which is more difficult to read.  This is driving me a little nuts!

---

### Post by drmrgd on 2012-04-30
I just figured it out.  For some reason, it was rendering the fonts larger than what they should be.  Just in case anyone else has this problem in future, I'll post the solution.  I fixed it by forcing the DPI of the fonts to 96, which brought them back to the size they should have been in the first place.  Hope that helps someone in future.

---

### Post by garzaj on 2012-05-27
Could you please tell me how you forced that? I'm having the same problem.

---

