---
title: "UNR 10.04 / Toshiba NB205 Problems"
date: 2010-07-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Auzeroel on 2010-07-02
Firstly, and to put it in simple words, I am a complete rookie when it comes to using Ubuntu, I disregard the terms thus, even though I have read many topics that propone solutions, I have not been able to apply them.
I recently installed the UNR 10.04 in my Toshiba NB205 and I am having some problems with the booting, bluetooth and finally the sound. It takes 3 to 5 minutes to get to the desktop and the speakers lack sound, adding aswell that they only work when I plug the headphones in.

I revised some topics before posting this message, and I found with possible solutions for the booting and sound issue here is the link:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks/ToshibaNB205](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/HardwareSupport/Machines/Netbooks/ToshibaNB205)

I did follow the instructions, however, I still don´t know what to do, any suggestions you might have?

---

### Post by matey3 on 2010-07-02
I am kind of noob but Have you run the updates recently?

The 3rd time I did, It solved many of my problems, including the problems with my wireless network. 
When you boot you should see 3 different versions of Ubuntu kernel(eg; ubuntu 2.6.32-23-generic) etc. in the grub menu.

you can update either by using the System-> Administration-> Update Manager
or via the terminal by typing:

sudo apt-get update


Good Luck!

---

### Post by Auzeroel on 2010-07-03
Ok thank you, I'll try that

---

### Post by Auzeroel on 2010-07-04
Well I've try it and still doesn't work...How do I  use a text editor as root? 

Is there a noobish guide or something so I can understand the basics terms? Or should I re-install Windows 7 Starter?

---

### Post by Auzeroel on 2010-07-04
Bump

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-04
sound:
press-> **alt+f2**
type-> **gksudo gedit /etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base.conf**
put-> **options snd-hda-intel index=0 model=auto**

boot:
press-> **alt+f2**
type-> **gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub**
look for-> **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"**
change to-> **GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nohz=off"**

open a terminal: accessories-> terminal
type-> **sudo update-grub**


not sure about bluetooth, have to google that.

---

### Post by Auzeroel on 2010-07-04
Oh man thank you so much! Now it runs just fine.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-04
> **Auzeroel said:**
> Oh man thank you so much! Now it runs just fine.

your welcome. sorry about bluetooth, i haven't found a easy fix yet, the 1's i found are complicated. i'll try & get back to it when i get a chance, todays just a busy day for me, 4th of july got to have that bbq & beer. ;)

---

### Post by spancho on 2010-07-10
First off, thanks so much for the help. I just installed UNR 10.04 onto my NB205 yesterday, and am now trying to solve these little problems. The boot fix worked like a charm, but I copy-pasted the "options snd-hda-intel index=0 model=auto" into the correct file, saved, rebooted, and still doesnt work. Am I doing something wrong here?

---

### Post by spancho on 2010-07-10
OK, I'm a fool. This actually worked perfectly and i just didnt know it. Cheers!

---

### Post by Auzeroel on 2010-07-11
Dammit, I still can't get the bluetooth working...

---

