---
title: "Problems with apt-key (Illegal instruction (core dumped))"
date: 2020-04-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fog762 on 2020-04-19
Hi guys,
since yesterday i have problems when i run "sudo apt update", for each repository i get this message: "Unknown error while running apt-key".
When, from the command line, I type this command: "apt-key list" i get this message "Illegal instruction (core dumped)". Same message if type
"apt-key finger" or "apt-key exportall". If type just "apt-key" i get the normal apt-key help screen. As a consequence, the apt update 
procedure indicates that all repositories do not have a valid GPG key. I don't know how to solve the problem, could you help me?
My Ubuntu version is:
Distributor ID:    Ubuntu
Description:    Ubuntu 18.04.4 LTS
Release:    18.04
Codename:    bionic

Kernel version is:
4.15.0-96-generic #97-Ubuntu SMP Wed Apr 1 03:25:46 UTC 2020 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by mIk3_08 on 2020-04-19
Just try ```
sudo apt-get update
```

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-19
> **mIk3_08 said:**
> Just try ```
sudo apt-get update
```

This is exactly what the OP did: > since yesterday i have problems when i run "sudo apt update"

@fog762

Please run the command again and post here the complete error messages in code tags (Go advanced, click "#" and paste inside). We'll troubleshoot from there.

---

### Post by fog762 on 2020-04-19
Hello guys,
the problem is generated by the hard disk. The reporitory GPG keys database is corrupt. A hard drive check solved the problem but I suspect that the device will break soon :icon_frown:

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-04-19
It may break soon indeed. 
Replace the drive ASAP.

---

