---
title: "Xubuntu Screen Resolution Issue and NO xorg file"
date: 2009-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fidosg on 2009-11-25
I have just loaded up Xubuntu (9.10) on an old Sony Vaio (PCG-FX503) with PIII and 256ram. 

The issue I am having is that the screen resolution options are limited to 800x600 and 640x480.

I would like to change this to 1024x768.

All the information I can find on the forum refers to changing the xorg file, but Xubuntu does not seem to have one in /etc/X11.

I have no programming knowledge and this is my first foray into the Linux world, so please bear that in mind! thanks

---

### Post by fidosg on 2009-11-26
Bump - can anyone help me out here. I don;t believe there is an xorg file in Xubuntu, so how do I go about adding a new screen resolution?

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-11-26
Assuming you are connected to the internet:
1. Run your Update Manager and let it download and install all the updates for the system. It may take a while.
2. After rebooting, go to Hardware Drivers in the Applications>System menu and see if there is a recommended driver for your video card.
3. Activate the recommended driver and wait for it to download and be installed.
4. After the driver finishes installing, reboot.
5. It will most likely boot back into a different resolution than previous, maybe even your desired resolution. If it loads the desktop properly, there is no reason to edit the xorg.conf (installing the driver also creates the file). Just use the driver's settings manager to change resolution. If you have an nvidia video card or chipset, open the nvidia Settings Mgr as root (in a terminal enter **gksudo nvidia-settings** and change the res there), then click the button to save your settings to the xorg.conf file and accept the "merge with existing" dialog. Reboot or logout and when you log in again everything should be fine.

---

### Post by fidosg on 2009-11-26
> **4Orbs said:**
> Assuming you are connected to the internet:
1. Run your Update Manager and let it download and install all the updates for the system. It may take a while.
**Done**

2. After rebooting, go to Hardware Drivers in the Applications>System menu and see if there is a recommended driver for your video card.
** It reads  "No proprietary drivers are in use on this system"**

3. Activate the recommended driver and wait for it to download and be installed.
N/A
4. After the driver finishes installing, reboot.
N/a
5. It will most likely boot back into a different resolution than previous, maybe even your desired resolution. If it loads the desktop properly, there is no reason to edit the xorg.conf (installing the driver also creates the file). Just use the driver's settings manager to change resolution. If you have an nvidia video card or chipset, open the nvidia Settings Mgr as root (in a terminal enter **gksudo nvidia-settings** and change the res there), then click the button to save your settings to the xorg.conf file and accept the "merge with existing" dialog. Reboot or logout and when you log in again everything should be fine.

Is there anything else that can be done?

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-11-26
You can find out which video card you have by entering in a terminal:
**lspci**
The line that starts with VGA is the description of the video card. You can post that here and maybe there is a driver available for it.

If there is no driver available for your gpu, but you know for certain that the card was capable of 1024x768 resolution, you might try creating an empty xorg.conf file on your desktop and paste the below into it and save.

```
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

```
Then using the terminal, copy the file, as root, to the /etc/X11 folder. First change the YOUR-USER-NAME portion below to your real user name:
```
sudo cp /home/YOUR-USER-NAME/Desktop/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

Then reboot and, with any luck, you will have a desktop at your desired resolution (but no proprietary driver). If the desktop borks after rebooting and you have only a blinking cursor, you will need to first log in to the blinking cursor and then remove the xorg.conf file by entering:
```
sudo rm /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
Then reboot again.

---

### Post by fidosg on 2009-11-26
First off, many thanks FOrbes for taking the time to help me out, I appreciate it.

Now unfortunately, creating the xorg file did not solve the problem - left with just the cursor I had t oremove it as you suggested I might.

My Graphics card is:
00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation 82815 Chipset Graphics Controller (CGC) (rev 11)

Does this help to find the source of the issue.
thanks

---

### Post by sadi2009 on 2009-11-26
Hey man... I was having this same problem with my Kubuntu... I wasn't getting my preferred resolution... so here is what I did... (Note: I dont have any Xorg file also... actually u can go well without it)

1. Remove the xorg.conf file from the /etc/X11/ (if u have any ;))

2. Reboot your pc to console mode (terminal/only text mode)

3. Then type this in the console: sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

4. Reboot your PC again

5. The End (hopefully this will solve your problem) :p:D:)


Take care.
God Bless.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-11-27
Maybe in the future there will be a proprietary driver available for your Intel chipset, but I wouldn't hold my breath waiting. The only thing I can suggest is to use the 800x600 res and then customize your desktop to look like the higher resolution by changing font size, panel width, icon size, etc. I realize that is a cheezy suggestion, but it could make the desktop more tolerable. Hopefully someone else will come and post a better idea. Good luck.

---

### Post by fidosg on 2009-11-27
Thanks Sadi2009 - unfortunately that did not work either. 

Perhaps there simply is not a solution for this problem, until a new driver appears, as 4Orbs has suggested. I guess I'm back to XP which is unfortunate!

---

### Post by raidoh on 2009-11-27
I did a quick search and came across an old webpage about running linux on your PCG-FX series of laptops along with some links to sony specific linux drivers. You might find a working driver for your laptop somewhere in there... 

[http://juljas.net/linux/vaiofx240/]("http://juljas.net/linux/vaiofx240/")

You can also try to look around Sony's driver database for similar machines. I had the same problem with an old Dell laptop and found a Red Hat video driver for my exact machine. Upped my resolution and seems to be working fine.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2009-11-28
Here's another idea (and probably frowned upon in this forum). Not all Linux distros are created equal. For instance, on my old computer I installed sidux a while back... and without any proprietary driver installed I still had a wide range of available resolutions. Now, sidux is lightening fast (also xfce4 desktop) compared to any Linux system I have ever used, but it's not for the inexperienced. I would guess that there are other Linux os's that might provide a pleasant experience a'la resolution. It depends on how adventurous you feel about the old laptop and your fondness for Xubuntu.

Another option might be to install one of the window managers like Openbox (my favorite) on your Xubuntu installation and customize the Openbox session quite differently than the xfce session. Openbox window frames are considerably thinner than the xfce window frames, and their size changes as the titlebar font size is changed. Openbox with the lxpanel (which can be transparent) and a few other goodies like nitrogen for wallpapers, lxappearance for gtk2 themes, cairo-dock for a cool app launcher... the whole combination of random junk becomes incredibly beautiful once you tweak it. You'll soon forget about the low resolution you are stuck with. And an Openbox session is a hot-rod compared to the xfce session. It takes very little time to install, and maybe a couple of days messing with it to get in the groove. If this idea peaks your interest [HERE IS]("http://urukrama.wordpress.com/openbox-guide/") a good how-to. You know, Linux loves you; Windows wants to suck the life out of you.

---

### Post by fidosg on 2009-11-29
thanks again to everyone for their time,  but unfortunately, I'm not really technically minded enough to start down this road, and also I've devoted enough time to the problem for now!

---

### Post by Marvin666 on 2009-11-29
I had a similar issue that never got resolved, except an external monitor's best working display mode wasn't supported (1024x768 71hz). I run xubuntu jaunty. Currently it isn't an issue for me, as both the monitor and laptop stopped working (unrelated hardware failures).

---

### Post by marsanpin on 2010-11-06
Thanks 4Orbs,
Your post helped with xubuntu 10.04. damned screen resolution!... my system loaded the i740 video module but I needed to write a xorg.conf like you explained.
happy ubunter :D cheers!

---

