---
title: "Blank screen using fglrx and an HDMI audio question"
date: 2010-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by schrute on 2010-09-09
Hi!
I have now for two days been battling against my computer. The problem I'm having is that I'm not able to use fglrx as it only gives me a black screen at the time when login screen should appear. I have tried installing from packages, and also building my own packages from the downloaded .run file from amd's website. I have tried reinstalling, reconfiguring, removing xserver-xorg-video-ati and so on, but the problem is basically the same even though sometimes it made the screen turn off instead of just black as it's now and have been for the most setups. I've tried running without xorg.conf and tried making one using aticonfig -initial , either ways the result is the same, blank and black screen.

I can confirm with dmesg | grep fglrx that the module is loaded (even now though I'm actually using radeon driver). The X log in /var/log is just an empty file, so no help there. Actually I started of with this yesterday but with a Debian/lenny installation, and had the same problem (the turning off screen variant). In Debian I couldn't even start X using any other driver (even though I maybe could now after I learned a bit more of how package tools work) so I installed Ubuntu instead. In Ubuntu everything loads but is using the radeon driver as default... Ubuntu though suggested on launch to upgrade to the propriety fglrx driver on launch, but that only made my screen to turn of on next launch...

The reason I really need/want to use fglrx is that I have my receiver connected through the HDMI cable and using it for sound. This works in Windows. As I understand I need to use the fglrx driver to do this in Linux, or do I ? Actually the HDMI out is shown in the mixer settings, but I don't get any sound through it... Guessing that I need to access some CCC settings that I cannot start when using radeon driver. Or should it be enough to get HDMI-out  sound just having the fglrx loaded though not using it for graphics ? 

How should I proceed with this situation? Trying to get fglrx to work or trying to get audio to work using radeon driver? And what can I try more? I have actually used both Linux and FreeBSD a bit in the good old days of the late-nineties (remember Slackware 96 :) ) but don't think I ever had this hard solved problem...

My system is:
Ubuntu 10.(4? latest netinstall) x64
C2D E6600 on P5B-deluxe
4GB RAM
ATI HD4350 (1 hdmi, 1 dvi, 1 vga), monitor connected on DVI

---

### Post by schrute on 2010-09-10
I have now tried removing and reinstalling again through jockey. Unfortunetly the screen just turns off at about the time login should appear. Also I still dont get any log generated, is there any way to force it? Maybe start in failsafe-mode and start X with some special argument?

Anyways here is the info I get with dmesg, so fglrx module seems to get loaded:
[    6.030803] fglrx: module license 'Proprietary. (C) 2002 - ATI Technologies, Starnberg, GERMANY' taints kernel.
[    6.070895] [fglrx] Maximum main memory to use for locked dma buffers: 3802 MBytes.
[    6.071023] [fglrx]   vendor: 1002 device: 954f count: 1
[    6.071559] [fglrx] ioport: bar 4, base 0xc000, size: 0x100
[    6.071750] [fglrx] Kernel PAT support is enabled
[    6.071766] [fglrx] module loaded - fglrx 8.72.11 [Apr  8 2010] with 1 minors

I'm using the autogenerated xorg.conf , should I change it and more data? :
Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    DefaultDepth    24
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Default Device"
    Driver    "fglrx"
EndSection

---

### Post by schrute on 2010-09-10
I have now tried all the tricks in the [http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Lucid_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Lucid_Installation_Guide) and still only getting blank screen :/

I'm suspecting that it maybe so that the output is going to either HDMI or VGA output of the graphics card. Could it be so? Unfortunately I dont have any other monitors/tv to try the other outputs... Can I explictly specify using aticonfig to use DVI output ?

---

