---
title: "9.04 - Suspend occurs while downloading in Firefox &amp; kills download progess"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Icm76 on 2009-05-05
Absolutely infuriating bug this! I just got 1GB of the Windows 7 RC and my computer went into suspend. Lost all the progress as there was no way to resume - the Firefox download box was frozen and displayed the download failed message :(

check_cpu_type option in the configuration editor makes no difference.

---

### Post by hansdown on 2009-05-05
Hi Icm76.

Usually jiggling the mouse should bring you out of suspend. Is this not

working?

---

### Post by Icm76 on 2009-05-05
Thanks, I think you misunderstand - suspend occurs & exits mostly as it should. However an *_active download_ * should prevent entering the suspend state. It's not happening, the computer is going 'idle' regardless of the active download! 

The frozen Firefox download box after exiting suspend may be a different issue, but it doesn't matter as you still lose your download progress :(
EDIT: I was still able to open up Firefox again and continue browsing, but it didn't unfreeze the download window

---

### Post by hansdown on 2009-05-05
My mistake Icm76.

Wish I could help.

---

### Post by Icm76 on 2009-05-06
> **hansdown said:**
> My mistake Icm76.
Wish I could help.
Thanks for taking the time to reply anyway :) Posted this more as a warning to others, expect there will be a bug fix eventually but 9.04 seems to have its' share of bugs and issues

---

### Post by bkadoctaj on 2010-04-10
> **Icm76 said:**
> Thanks for taking the time to reply anyway :) Posted this more as a warning to others, expect there will be a bug fix eventually but 9.04 seems to have its' share of bugs and issues
Yeah, does anyone have a solution to this?

---

