---
title: "8.04 Sreen Savers"
date: 2011-03-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by atravnic on 2011-03-06
Hi there -- Can someone please tell me where I can find the 8.04 screen savers--which are far nicer then the 9.04 screen savers--and how I can install them in 9.04.

Not sure it's relevant to this, but I'm running 8.04 on a old IBM ThinkPad, and 9.04 on an HP Pavilion. Please let me know if this is not enough info.

Thanks a bunch.        ...Fred

---

### Post by ipatfrmww on 2011-03-06
Ok, what you can do, (I think this should work)
Find out where the binarys for the screensavers are on your hardy system (somwhere in /usr/share)
Then you can use them on a new computer.
To do this you need to make some new desktop files in your /usr/share/applications/screensavers/ directory)
You will need to have root access to do this, and also know how to write .desktop files
They are just text files, however you can't see inside them cause they are special.
You can see the names of desktop files by running ls in the directory.
(the actual names don't come up in nautilus)
then you run gedit <name of it>.desktop in the directory, and you can edit them
You will need root access to edit files in /usr/...

Alternatively you could find out which debian package installs the screensavers come from, then i could do it for you.
And you could then just copy the files across.
(that would take more than  day though)

If you don't like messing around with your system then you might be out of luck.
The way I described is kind of hacky. I could think of a better way to do it if i knew what the screensavers in 8.04 were like.

Btw why are you using 9.04 anyway?

---

