---
title: ".exe"
date: 2007-01-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mszl_1 on 2007-01-15
when i receive a message that needs a .exe ro run, how would i go about it on a linux box?
thanks

---

### Post by taurus on 2007-01-15
.exe is a Windows program (unless somebody misses label it) so you need to use wine to run it.  Of course, wine is available in the repos.

---

### Post by MetalMusicAddict on 2007-01-15
> **mszl_1 said:**
> when i receive a message that needs a .exe ro run, how would i go about it on a linux box?
thanks

Generally, you dont. You can do like taurus said but Im gonna go out on a linb here and say your doing something on the web?

Im unsure if WINE and Firefox can work together if this is your need.

---

### Post by Shay Stephens on 2007-01-15
"Are you sure you want to run this .exe trojan/virus/spyware?"

Yes     No     Quit

Click yes to hose your system, click no to ignore this warning, click quit to turn off these warnings.

---

### Post by mszl_1 on 2007-01-16
thanks to al lwho replied. thing is i was sent a message at work but i want to show my children it at home. it was sent via a windoze  box with a .exe.  i have wine on my box so i was hoping it would "just work" it was scanned before i received it but i dont trust microsoft as far as i see. 
ta:)

---

### Post by Shay Stephens on 2007-01-16
If you believe the exe to be safe, and you have wine installed, you should be able to just right click on the exe and choose to open the file with wine.  It might even be default, so double clicking on the exe file might run it too.

---

### Post by majoridiot on 2007-01-16
copy the .exe to your ubuntu desktop

```
 cd ~/Desktop
wine file.exe
```

---

