---
title: "9.04  How do I Remove the ROOT program?"
date: 2009-04-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-04-26
I mistakenly installed the program, ROOT. I now want to completely remove it.
Can somebody advise me on how to do this?:confused:

---

### Post by Zoowey on 2009-04-26
Go into "Add/Remove Applications" and search for ROOT then simply uncheck the box and hit "Apply Changes"

Hope this helps.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-04-26
Zoowey, thanks for the reply...I already tried that.
But...
Interestingly enough, the program "ROOT" is listed in the Applications menu, under the Programming selection, but when I open the menu for Add/Remove, the program is no where to be found. Neither can I find it under the Synaptic Package Manager. 
That pretty much explains why I can't remove it.
So still looking for an answer.:confused:

---

### Post by Sef on 2009-04-26
How did you install it?

---

### Post by Legace on 2009-04-26
Do the following:

Open GEdit (Applications -> Accessories -> Text Editor)
Now go to the "ROOT" entry, and drag the icon into the GEdit window.
Post the contents here.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-04-26
Thanks for the replies

Sef... I installed it using "apt-get install ROOT".

Legace... I don't understand:> Now go to the "ROOT" entry, and drag the icon into the GEdit window.
Could you clarify how to do this?

---

### Post by Buffalo Soldier on 2009-04-26
Is there any program called "ROOT"? My last search in synaptic shows no program by that name.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-04-26
Of course... otherwise I wouldn't be trying to remove it, would I? If it was to be found in Synaptic, I wouldn't be posting this thread. lol.
This is what it opens with.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-04-26
I resolved my dilemma by formatting the partition and installing Ubuntu Jaunty Jackalope again.
This wasn't such a drastic action, as I wanted to get the newly released version anyway.:guitar:

---

### Post by Linux000 on 2009-04-26
Couldn't you have just typed 
```
apt-get remove ROOT
apt-get autoremove
```?:confused:

---

