---
title: "v11.04 gm855 --&gt; Gnome Desktop no effects :-/"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by spielball on 2011-04-29
As of 11.04 the intel gm855 works. However, I only get Gnome Classic without effects. Is there a way to get the effects? Two weeks ago I had tried a custom live cd from Glasen's Blog, who provided a fix for v10.04. And there I had the effects (shadow, wobble). So I thought it must be possible to get them too in v11.04.

I have the following in xorg.conf:

Secton "Device"
Identifier "Card0"
Driver "intel"
Option "Shadow" "1"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
Identifier "VGA"
Option "Ignore" "true"
EndSection

But still, I can only use 'Classic without effects'. Any ideas?

---

### Post by simulationsofsai on 2011-04-30
Download and install the compizconfig-settings-manager and you can enable the wobble and a whole lot of other effects in there.

---

### Post by spielball on 2011-05-01
I don't think that this will provide a solution. Because it seems my gm855 graphics card is still blacklisted on kernel level. Because in 'System > Preferences > Appearence' I don't have a a tab for 'Visual Effects'. On the logon screen I can only choose 'Classic (no effects)'. If I choose the normal 'Classic', Ubuntu does not login, but throws me back to the login window.

Anyway, at the moment I can't do any testing. Because I'm starting from live stick at the moment. My permanent installation is crippled after I uninstalled moblock/blockcontrol, so I cannot access the internet from there. Will get back here when my installation is fixed.

EDIT:
I've installed the compizconfig-settings-manager, but the settings don't have any effect. So I guess I first have to fix the graphics card issue.

EDIT 2:
I found out it has to do with Gnome in Natty. It needs open GL 1.4, even though it's not Unity. But compiz in Natty also needs open GL version 1.4. My graphics card can only v1.3. Therefore it won't work.

---

