---
title: "8.10 Overheating"
date: 2009-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Robbyx on 2009-01-06
My PC just froze. The keyboard ceases to control the system. I had to reset the computer.

On restarting there was a lot of buzzing comming from the computer. I restarted again and checked the bios settings.I noticed the CPU temp had gone up to 99deg and that was why the  alarm was buzzing. I took the cover off and both the cpu fan and the psu fans were working.


Is there an application that I can add to the panel which will show me the temp of the cpu? I can see one that is for cpu useage but not for temp.

Are other people experiencing their machine freezing in the same way? I have checked the memory with memtest and it is ok.

Robin

---

### Post by Sorivenul on 2009-01-07
Hi, Robin.

"sensors-applet" should let you monitor your ACPI thermal zone temperature from the GNOME panel:
```
sudo apt-get install sensors-applet
```

Then just add it to your panel.

Manually, in a terminal, you could also run:
```
acpi -t
```
or 
```
acpi -V
```

Also, more information would be good:
Are you using a desktop or a laptop?
What type of CPU do you have? (As the maximum heat settings can vary from CPU to CPU)
Is the 99 degrees in Farenheit or Celsius?

You may also be interested in [this guide]("http://www.heatsink-guide.com/content.php?content=maxtemp.shtml") about CPU temperatures.
Another note, I wouldn't put this as a RAM issue (but it probably didn't hurt that you ran memtest, anyway).

Hope this helps!

---

### Post by Robbyx on 2009-01-07
Also, more information would be good:

Are you using a desktop or a laptop?
*Desktop*


What type of CPU do you have? (As the maximum heat settings can vary from CPU to CPU)
*I am using a desktop intel dual core 4805: lga775 smithfield*

Is the 99 degrees in Farenheit or Celsius?
*Celcius*



[I]Sensor Applet
Do you know how to add the cpu to the sensors as it is not there by default.[/I]

Thank you for your help

Robin

---

### Post by Sorivenul on 2009-01-07
> **Robbyx said:**
> 
Do you know how to add the cpu to the sensors as it is not there by default.

You'll need to install the sensors applet with the command I gave you above, or using the Synaptic Package Manager. After that, right-click your panel, click "Add to Panel...", and look for "Hardware Sensors Monitor" in the list. Select it, and the applet should start running.

Good luck!

---

