---
title: "[SOLVED] cant find 'that' post (xorg tweaking)"
date: 2008-05-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2008-05-29
hi all
ive just had to do a reinstall of the heron. now im back up to speed everything is working as was if not better. the only thing i cant find is a certain post that dealt with xorg.conf files. basically there were several lines you could add to your file to help tweak it. now the last time i used these instructions it seemed instrumental in removing the slight pixalation of DVD, avi images. the strings in question looked like this;

load     "?"
load     "?" 

where ? is whatever it was lol. there where also a load of
true/false switchs as well. if anyone can point me back to this page id be very grateful.

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2008-05-29
might need a bit more detail on the thread you are looking for. what was it about? specific driver? pixelated playback?

some option for the load command are

```
Load  "glx"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "xtrap"
	Load  "GLcore"
	Load  "dbe"
	Load  "record"
	Load  "IA"
	Load  "freetype"
```

see if any ring a bell, but i wouldn't use them unless you know what they do.....i only know "dbe" is double buffer

---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2008-05-29
i think it was related to fglrx (i have used the search facility)
the "dbe" i have only seen in relation to conky. the post im trying to find was set out such that you added a couple of strings at a time to see if they helped or hindered. its really annoying as i make a habit of bookmarking such posts as benefit my setup, this time i forgot!

the entrys went in the last part of the xorg file heres my current one;

ection "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	
EndSection

---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2008-05-29
actually heres my whole zorg.conf, there where about 6-7 lines i added i think composite and texture was involved, i wish i could remember!

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"gb"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	
EndSection

---

### Post by renzokuken on 2008-05-29
it was probably ```
load "dri"
``` and also

```
Section "Extensions"
        Option      "Composite" "enable"
EndSection
```

but dont quote me on that.

this is probably more help than i can be
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide)

---

### Post by Fenris_rising on 2008-05-29
yeah i think that was one of them lol. im still searching trying all the combis of glx fglrx ati etc etc olololol

---

### Post by m.rankovic on 2008-06-01
Option "TexturedVideo" "on" ?

---

