---
title: "10.10 firefox assertion error"
date: 2010-12-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bdemers on 2010-12-02
Just upgraded to 10.10 form 10.04 firefox 3.6.12 is in place.  When trying to bookmark, I get an assertion error. Pushing buttons enough times will get the bookmark in place, but would like to deal with making the error messages evaporate.  What info do you need to help me eliminate this?

Here's message:

ASSERT: parent node must have _DOMElement set
Stack Trace: 
0:PMV_nodeInserted([object ResultNodeClassInfo],[object ResultNodeClassInfo],23)
1:moveItem(757,3,-1)
2:PMIT_doTransaction()
3:doTransaction([xpconnect wrapped nsITransaction])
4:placesTxn_doTransaction([xpconnect wrapped nsITransaction])
5:doTransaction([xpconnect wrapped nsITransaction])
6:EIO_onFolderMenuListCommand([object XULCommandEvent])
7:oncommand([object XULCommandEvent])

---

### Post by MadCatmkII on 2010-12-02
I also get an assert error occasionally when making bookmarks. On top of that I've had some bookmarks get corrupted in such a way that they point to another bookmark in my collection, keeping the name but having the wrong address. Have you noticed this last problem as well?

I'm using 10.04 with firefox 3.6.12

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2010-12-02
try it without all your extensions and addons and see if it works

---

### Post by bdemers on 2010-12-02
I have not noticed a corruption to the bookmark's index.  Yikes!

I'll turn off the 3rd party stuff, good idea.  I have noticed it behaving itself since I posted my whine.  Figures, doesn't it?

---

### Post by pootan on 2010-12-02
Yea, good luck with this one. I've had this problem for > 6 months and there are a few unresolved threads here by me and others as well as a few open/ closed tickets on launchpad.net. It seems to be triggered by visiting sites with a certain css style and right clicking bookmark this page and the problem escalates from there until a fire fox restart, at least for me.  I've learned to live with it because removing all add ons and completely purging firefox and reinstalling did nothing. I thought an upgrade to 10.10 would do the trick but alas no. I'll be watching with interest. :popcorn:

---

### Post by bdemers on 2010-12-02
That's funny.  I just got done watching a Seinfeld rerun with a big bowl of popcorn.  

Never had this issue until I did a 10.10 update.  Thought it might have something to do with the Ubuntu version of 'Fox.  Maybe Chrome as a workaround?

---

### Post by MadCatmkII on 2010-12-04
I've noticed now that new bookmarks don't appear in my bookmarks menu anymore, only their name appears when I go into Manage my bookmarks (that's what it's called in english, right?)

And to top it off, I got a assertion error on logging in to post this reply :-/  I don't want to resort to using other browsers, I'm quite fond of my firefox...

edit: I should probably mention that this was done with all plugins, including those for codecs and flash, disabled.

---

### Post by MadCatmkII on 2010-12-18
Hello all, I have an update to my problems as described above. After going through some messages in the Mozilla knowledgebase I came across a suggestion to delete the places.sqlite file in my firefox profile (found in ~/.mozilla/firefox/*name-of-profile*/) and lo and behold, all was well again. According to [this]("http://support.mozilla.com/sv-SE/questions/757946") it should be safe to delete this file.

---

