---
title: "[20.04] Suspend not working properly on automatic login"
date: 2022-03-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-05
Hello all !

Since I don't want to enter a password everytime I start my pc, I turned on automatic login under settings > users.

The problem is, hitting the suspend option from the top right corner > power off, greets me with a login - password prompt when I wake from suspend.

I've looked around a bit, and one solution that was proposed (and reportedly works for some), is toggling the "**lock Screen on Suspend**" to **off**, under settings > privacy > screen lock.

That sadly didn't do the trick for me. If I toggle it off and hit suspend, the screen goes black for about a second, but comes back, and the case doesn't turn off. The desktop is alive and running as if I haven't clicked suspend at all.

The funny things is, *after that *if i toggle **lock Screen on Suspend back on, **the pc goes to suspend as if I've clicked suspend, and when I wake up there is no password prompt. 

It's as if the OS is waiting for the screen to be locked before going into suspend.

I've tried toggling it to off and restarting the pc just in case, but still no dice. Also just realized that when the toggle is off and i hit suspend, there's no internet anymore.

This is a big deal for me since I use suspend *a lot* during the day. I've had no problems with it whatsoever in 16.04 before.

Any help is much appreciated !

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-05
Something else has came up: Every once in a while, the password prompt is not when waking up, but before going into suspend (after I've clicked suspend). That's confusing. If I enter the password and hit enter, it goes into suspend. If I don't, it just stays there on the password prompt without going into suspend. edit: Sorry for unnecessary language.

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-06
Is there something wrong with automatic login I wonder.

It's now constantly asking me to login/password when I click suspend.

Any ideas ?

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-08
Still haven't managed to solve this issue :( 

Any help is much appreciated !

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2022-03-08
Did you set a blank password? This can cause issues

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-08
> **ActionParsnip said:**
> Did you set a blank password? This can cause issues

No, my password is most certainly not blank:D

I have a user password. Maybe the admin (root?) password isn't set somehow ? 

But then, executing the sudo command in the terminal prompts password, I enter it and it works...

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-15
I still haven't managed to solve this issue sadly :( 

Any ideas ?

---

### Post by ddddd5 on 2022-03-21
SOLVED !! It's been SOLVED !!! :D

I'm guessing this was somehow addressed in one of the the recent system updates, or was fixed when I flashed a new BIOS version a few days ago.

In any case, it's solved and I'M STOKED.

For further information, **lock Screen on Suspend **option under settings > privacy > screen lock is toggled as **ON**. This was not working previously.

---

