---
title: ".rm to .mp3 converter best application"
date: 2011-02-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by fr05t6it3s on 2011-02-01
1. Which is better, having to install the driver to run realmedia (.rm/.ra) audio formats or install an application to convert .rm/ .ra to .mp3? 

2. I see that realmedia demuxer is available through gstreamer ugly. Would that be advisable or is it any good?

3. [followup to #1]: What application is the best to convert realmedia to mp3?

thank you.

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2011-02-01
Hi, and welcome to the forums!

Perhaps your question would have more chances to get a lot of aswers in the multimedia forum. Anyway, here my 2p:

Converting sound from a compressed loosy format to another always will be a bad thing. I'd try to keep your existing .ra files in that format. So:
[INDENT]- There is [realplayer for linux]("http://www.real.com/realplayer/download") Have yoy tried it?
- There is also a realplayer in the repository, which is based on the open source HelixPLayer. I see it supports also other formats as mp3, ogg vorbis, and more.[/INDENT] 

Never tried myself though. Don't have .rm in my collection.
Best
JC

---

### Post by hansdown on 2011-02-01
Welcome to the forum, fr05t6it3s.

Gstreamer should work fine.

You could also install

```
sound converter
```

---

### Post by fr05t6it3s on 2011-02-01
> **JC Cheloven said:**
> Hi, and welcome to the forums!

Perhaps your question would have more chances to get a lot of aswers in the multimedia forum. Anyway, here my 2p:

Converting sound from a compressed loosy format to another always will be a bad thing. I'd try to keep your existing .ra files in that format. So:[INDENT]- There is [realplayer for linux]("http://www.real.com/realplayer/download") Have yoy tried it?
- There is also a realplayer in the repository, which is based on the open source HelixPLayer. I see it supports also other formats as mp3, ogg vorbis, and more.[/INDENT]Never tried myself though. Don't have .rm in my collection.
Best
JC

Thanks for the suggestion, JC Cheloven.

Admin, can you move this thread to the Multimedia forum please? Thanks.

Well, what I am trying to do is to play .rm audio format in ExpressScribe. Currently, ExpressScribe doesn't recognize this audio format. I guess I would have to convert this to .mp3 audio format or install a driver that this transcription app recognizes.

---

### Post by claracc on 2011-02-02
I think that your idea of converting .rm or .ra format files to .mp3 is best than trying audio players (real player) play this kind of files since some of these files cannot be played by linux real player ( see my unanswered thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1678278&highlight=.ram+audio](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1678278&highlight=.ram+audio) ) but they can be played by realplayer for windows.

So other alternative to listen or see these files can be to use realplayer for windows in ubuntu through wine. I haven't tried it yet.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-02-02
If you have the right codecs installed on Ubuntu (namely, the package known as "w32codecs" or "w64codecs"), then you should be able to use Audacity to open the file and then output it to MP3. Audacity can even work with (the audio from) video files, which might be handy for you.

---

### Post by angelinaparker86 on 2011-02-02
Free RM to MP3 Converter can convert Real Media files to MP3 files  which can be played in MP3 Players. All Real Media formats (*.rm, *.ra,  *.rmvb) are supported. The program is a freeware and does not contain  any form of malware, including but not limited to: spyware, viruses,  trojans and backdoors.

---

### Post by JC Cheloven on 2011-02-07
> **claracc said:**
> I think that your idea of converting .rm or .ra format files to .mp3 is best than trying audio players (real player) play this kind of files since some of these files cannot be played by linux real player ( see my unanswered thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1678278&highlight=.ram+audio](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1678278&highlight=.ram+audio) ) but they can be played by realplayer for windows.

No longer an 'unanswered post' ;)

---

### Post by Nixarter on 2011-02-07
Well, I second what JC Chelovensaid about the files.  You will always lose quality when going from any format (lossy or not)to a lossy format, regardless of any increase in bitrate or any other factor.  The only way to not lose quality is if you transcode to a non-lossy format (such as flac, if set correctly) at the same sample rate (though you will lose it if you go from the non-lossy format to a lossy one, such as mp3).  Flac files are open-source and widely compatible with FOSS programs, but they are very large (about 10x the size of an mp3 of the same length).

So, yeah, transcode if you wish but keep the originals!

---

