---
title: "10.10 using continuous 8.6kb/s network download"
date: 2010-10-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Robvdl on 2010-10-10
I've installed Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit (I am an experienced Linux user here), installed a few extras like docky, zeitgeist, added my Ubuntu one account (I don't synchronise much at all, about 100kb max), my twitter account using Gwibber, but nothing much else.  I also mount a few smbfs shares in my fstab file at bootup.  About the only other program that uses the net that I can think of is running would be rabbitvcs, but I can't imagine that will keep downloading if I am not doing anything.

I noticed that when opening system monitor, it is continuously downloading 8.6kb/sec, even if I am doing absolutely nothing.  It gets to the point that after an hour or so of use, 100mb or more has downloaded, but what for??

I tried a Googling a few commands to figure out what is eating up network download bandwidth, such as "netstat -p" and "lsof | grep tcp", to try to figure out what is downloading so much at a constant rate, but I can't seem to find the process.

Any ideas on how to figure out what is doing this?

I have tried disabling stuff one after the other:

I disconnected my Ubuntu one account
I removed my Twitter account from gwibber
I terminated zeitgeist-daemon
I terminated all desktop-couch related processes
I disconnected all my smbfs drives

But it is still downloading 8.6kb/sec, steadily.  This is wasting a lot of bandwidth during the day, and I am not sure what is causing it.

p.s. it is only doing downloading, never uploading.

---

### Post by rick550 on 2010-10-10
Im having this problem also but its lower than 8kb it downloads and uploads.

When your away from your computer put it in suspend so it doesn't use your internet.

It may be some bug in something that needs internet connection.
Im using Ubuntu 10.10-64Bit.

---

### Post by Andy06 on 2010-10-11
Were you running as root when you used the netstat -p command?

If not, try it again as root. Also try netstat -v.

Your problems sounds serious and distressing, I'd go insane :)

In Windows, I'd just run to resource monitor and it tells you which app is using the network, where, how etc.
I tried the Gnome system monitor but there was nothing similar :(, maybe try Wireshark?

---

### Post by Robvdl on 2010-10-15
Sorry about the late reply, but I have fixed the problem.  I should have thought about using Wireshark earlier (I had used it before), but next time I will remember.  Anyway, the source wasn't my machine, but another machine on our network, owned by my flatmate, so the traffic wasn't coming from the Internet at least.  He's a bit of a Windows fanboy and likes his gadget/utility software.  He uses this program called cFosSpeed which is supposed to do traffic shaping, in that program was an option that he ticked blindly (not even knowing what it meant) to do with broadcasting statistics.  It was using UPNP and broadcasting a fair bit of traffic to 192.168.1.255, so I think it was sending it to all computers on the network - how annoying.  Anyway, once we found the problem, he disabled this option and the bandwidth on my machine dropped back to 0, yay!

---

