---
title: "14.04 Lightdm Resume from Suspend."
date: 2014-12-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheVolamoot on 2014-12-30
On ubuntu 14.04 I have gnome 3 installed from PPA, with Lightdm. When on GDM when resuming from suspend it prompts for password, but on Lightdm it goes straight to desktop. I'm not sure if this is a configuration issue I have or if this is how it was designed to work. 

Just trying to figure out whether i can get Lightdm to ask for password on resume.

Thanks!

-- EDIT --
It appears to have been a bug with gnome-screensaver and dconf-editor.

> [COLOR=#333333][FONT=UbuntuRegular]On ubuntu 13.10, macbookair 5.2, gnome-shell 3.8 I've had the same issue.[/FONT][/COLOR][COLOR=#333333][FONT=UbuntuRegular]These have been the system settings:[/FONT][/COLOR]

[LIST]
[*]gnome-control-center > brightness & lock > *lock* on and *require password when waking from suspend* enabled
[*]dconf-editor > *org/gnome/desktop/lockdown/[disable-lock-screen]("http://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=47&t=85912#p517372")* disabled
[*]dconf-editor > *org/gnome/desktop/screensaver/lock-enabled* enabled
[*]dconf-editor > *org/gnome/desktop/screensaver/ubuntu-lock-on-suspend* enabled
[/LIST]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=UbuntuRegular]This had no effect/didn't give any clues:[/FONT][/COLOR]

[LIST]
[*]sudo dpkg-reconfigure gnome-screensaver
[*]sudo apt-get install libnss-myhostname because of dmesg error "*[systemd-hostnamed[11869]: Warning: nss-myhostname is not installed. [...]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/systemd/+bug/1185596")*" which was the only clue there
[/LIST]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=UbuntuRegular]**This made my day:**[/FONT][/COLOR]

[LIST]
[*]switching all the above mentioned keys in dconf-editor twice
[/LIST]
[COLOR=#333333][FONT=UbuntuRegular]So why? dconf bug? Or a combination of libnss-myhostname/gnome-screensaver/dconf? ... Didn't (want to) reproduce the problem and solution.[/FONT][/COLOR]


More information from my solution can be found here -> [http://askubuntu.com/questions/299786/why-doesnt-ubuntu-13-04-prompt-me-for-a-password-after-suspend](http://askubuntu.com/questions/299786/why-doesnt-ubuntu-13-04-prompt-me-for-a-password-after-suspend)

---

