---
title: "AMD 64 or i386?"
date: 2010-12-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eng123 on 2010-12-13
I have AMD Athlon(tm) 64 Processor 3500+ but I run Vista in 32bits should I get the i368 or the AMD64 version of ubuntu? :confused:

---

### Post by xaegis on 2010-12-13
Yes. ;)

---

### Post by eng123 on 2010-12-13
Yes what? Which one?

---

### Post by Bitrate on 2010-12-13
> **eng123 said:**
> I have AMD Athlon(tm) 64 Processor 3500+ but I run Vista in 32bits should I get the i368 or the AMD64 version of ubuntu? :confused:

Depends on how much RAM your system has. If you have less than 2GB then stick with the 32bit version of Ubuntu.

Ubuntu 64bit is quite mature and well supported. The only minor issue with the 64bit release is unstable 64bit flash support. Blame Adobe for that.

---

### Post by argedion on 2010-12-13
> **eng123 said:**
> I have AMD Athlon(tm) 64 Processor 3500+ but I run Vista in 32bits should I get the i368 or the AMD64 version of ubuntu? :confused:

This is my take on the situation. Would you drive a mustang like a Toyota Corolla? I mean after all a mustang has all that power it would seem to be a waste not to use it properly. 

You can use 32 bit however if you have more than 3 gigs of ram you will need to make sure you are using a PAE kernal or else you will only get 3g of what you have.

---

### Post by bowens44 on 2010-12-13
Install the 64 bit...................

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2010-12-13
The 64 bit is faster and there are no longer any reason to use a 32 bit just to get some applications.  Everything has caught up with the times.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-12-13
I have run 64-bit even on my early Athlon 64 3200+ (2 GHz 1024K cache) from back in the SuSE 8.0 or 8.2 days 5 or 6 years ago (the PC is from 2004) which until recently had 1 GB RAM and now 2 GB.  The only issue I have with Ubuntu is that it cannot run real 64-bit flash from adobe (which is not in Ubuntu packages anyway) unless it also uses flashplugin-lahf-fix.so that someone came up with for cpus that lack the lahf_lm instruction used by real 64-bit flash.  That works fine with Firefox, but Hulu Desktop does not recognize it. So on that PC I just use flashplugin-installer package which uses 32-bit flash with npwrapper.

For any newer system I install ubuntu-restricted-extras, then uninstall flashplugin-installer and use real 64-bit flash from adobe.  I just extract it and cp it to /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins (using **sudo** to do that as root).

---

### Post by bobcollard on 2010-12-13
> **efflandt said:**
> I have run 64-bit even on my early Athlon 64 3200+ (2 GHz 1024K cache) from back in the SuSE 8.0 or 8.2 days 5 or 6 years ago (the PC is from 2004) which until recently had 1 GB RAM and now 2 GB.  The only issue I have with Ubuntu is that it cannot run real 64-bit flash from adobe (which is not in Ubuntu packages anyway) unless it also uses flashplugin-lahf-fix.so that someone came up with for cpus that lack the lahf_lm instruction used by real 64-bit flash.  That works fine with Firefox, but Hulu Desktop does not recognize it. So on that PC I just use flashplugin-installer package which uses 32-bit flash with npwrapper.

For any newer system I install ubuntu-restricted-extras, then uninstall flashplugin-installer and use real 64-bit flash from adobe.  I just extract it and cp it to /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins (using **sudo** to do that as root).
For a Ubuntu compatible distro with true 64 bit flash, try Linux Mint.  Trouble is Hulu and some of the others don't recognize 64 bit flash yet.

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2010-12-13
Hulu works fine here with 64-bit flash.

---

### Post by eng123 on 2010-12-14
sry guys but u just got me more confused. I have 1gb ram
which version should I use?

---

### Post by akand074 on 2010-12-14
> **eng123 said:**
> sry guys but u just got me more confused. I have 1gb ram
which version should I use?

64 bit. If you have a 64 bit processor, go 64 bit. The benefit of 64 bit isn't just in using more ram (matter of fact the new Linux-pae kernel supports more than 4GB in 32 bit), but the fact that 64 bit OS is exponentially more efficient with handling RAM. You may not notice this most of the time, but might as well use your system to the best of it's ability. I'd go with 64 bit if I were you. I've used 64 bit Ubuntu for years, haven't had an issue.

---

