---
title: "8.04, USB DRIVE permission problems"
date: 2008-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by museworry on 2008-05-06
Hello.

I do not exactly remember, when this problem appeared: before or after upgrading 7.10 -> 8.04. The things is when I plug in Usb flash drive and trying to browse new media in dolphin, it says: permissions denied.
Though I can do the following :

```
sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /media/tmp/
```
And get read access to my flash.

It could be some hal related problem, but I do not know, how to config is. 

Also, my user is a member of plugdev group.

This is my fstab:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=8708b41b-fe13-4ef0-ab30-b9fa7d2d9361 / ext3 nouser,defaults,errors=remount-ro,atime,auto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda2 :
UUID=528C49278C4906C7 /media/sda2 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=adb95d5f-8ed6-441f-bd11-5a427ed0c292 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,atime,noauto,rw,dev,exec,suid 0 0
#/dev/sdb1 /media/120 auto umask=022,nouser,noauto\040force,atime,noauto,rw,nodev,noexec,nosuid 0 0
#/dev/sdd1 /media/iPod vfat nosuid,noauto,nodev,rw,umask=077,gid=1000,uid=1000,user,defaults,noatime,iocharset=utf8 0 0

```

thanks :(

---

### Post by luisromangz on 2008-05-06
Try adding your user to the "disk" user group.

---

### Post by ejay563 on 2008-05-06
When you plug the drive in, take note of where it mounts automatically. Then, open a terminal,and do

```
$ sudo -r chmod 777 /path/to/drive

```

This will set read/write/execute permissions to every type of user, and you should be able to read/write to your drive.

---

### Post by museworry on 2008-05-07
> **ejay563 said:**
> When you plug the drive in, take note of where it mounts automatically. 

how would I know where it was mounted? moreover, how can I see hal log, may I can examin it and see, what comand does it use to mount?

Adding user to disk group did not helped.

---

### Post by ejay563 on 2008-05-07
When you plug it in, does it show up on the desktop? If so, double click on it, and you should be able to see where it is mounted in the "address bar." Usually these things are mounted in the /media folder, so it would be something like /media/disk . As for the hal log, I'm not sure where it's located, but if I have time I'll do some research.

---

### Post by boralyl on 2008-06-04
I have had similar issues since upgrading to 8.04.  Both of my flash drives give permissions denied when auto mounting as well as my external usb hard drive.

When I connect dmesg outputs:
```

[441893.179972] usb 5-5: new high speed USB device using ehci_hcd and address 4
[441893.400260] usb 5-5: configuration #1 chosen from 1 choice
[441893.463616] scsi5 : SCSI emulation for USB Mass Storage devices
[441893.464580] usb-storage: device found at 4
[441893.464586] usb-storage: waiting for device to settle before scanning
[441898.475253] usb-storage: device scan complete
[441898.476209] scsi 5:0:0:0: Direct-Access              USB Flash Memory 1.00 PQ: 0 ANSI: 2
[441898.494179] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] 500736 512-byte hardware sectors (256 MB)
[441898.494868] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Write Protect is off
[441898.494873] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Mode Sense: 0b 00 00 08
[441898.494876] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
[441898.503190] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] 500736 512-byte hardware sectors (256 MB)
[441898.504062] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Write Protect is off
[441898.504069] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Mode Sense: 0b 00 00 08
[441898.504072] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Assuming drive cache: write through
[441898.504081]  sdb: sdb1
[441898.505805] sd 5:0:0:0: [sdb] Attached SCSI removable disk
[441898.505854] sd 5:0:0:0: Attached scsi generic sg2 type 0

```

Which looks fine.  However when I run the mount command, /dev/sdb1 isn't listed as being mounted.

I can manually mount it via:
sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /media/usb

Any idea why it won't automount anymore?  Or how to make it automount with the correct read/write permissions?

---

### Post by toster13 on 2008-06-05
> **boralyl said:**
> I have had similar issues since upgrading to 8.04.  Both of my flash drives give permissions denied when auto mounting as well as my external usb hard drive.
---------skip----------

try my post this 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5124650#post5124650]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=5124650#post5124650")

---

### Post by museworry on 2008-06-09
after googling and change something in policy files I've made some improvements. Now, when I plug in USB Flash or Drive and browse to it I got the inputbox:
'System policy prevents mounting internal media. Authentification required to perform this action. Please enter your password to verify'. And after I entering my password it become accessible. 

How can I get read of asking me password every time? Thanks.

---

### Post by DaveQB on 2008-08-06
Anyone know the answer to the last post ?
This is a new "feature" in Hardy I take it.

---

### Post by HousieMousie2 on 2008-08-18
> **museworry said:**
> after googling and change something in policy files I've made some improvements. Now, when I plug in USB Flash or Drive and browse to it I got the inputbox:
'System policy prevents mounting internal media. Authentification required to perform this action. Please enter your password to verify'. And after I entering my password it become accessible. 

How can I get read of asking me password every time? Thanks.

BUMP!

I just upgraded to Hardy also, Kubuntu... and I get the same dialog box "System policy prevents mounting internal media" before I can access my other hard drive (Windows XP.)

How can I get things back on track here?  It is a pain in the posterior to have to give it my password every time I fire up my machine.

Thank you.

---

### Post by Graeme Hewson on 2008-08-27
> **HousieMousie2 said:**
> 
I get the same dialog box "System policy prevents mounting internal media"


This happens on one machine I use, but other Hardy machines don't have the problem.

Does the command "polkit-auth" show nothing? Try running as root:

[FONT="System"]polkit-auth --user *user* --grant org.freedesktop.hal.storage.mount-removable[/FONT]

Now "polkit-auth" should show you have the the authorization to mount removable media, and in fact I can. That may or may not be useful to you depending on how often you reboot, of course.

It's a puzzle, though, that in /usr/share/PolicyKit/policy/org.freedesktop.hal.storage.policy the error message "System policy prevents mounting internal media" is for fixed, not removable media.

For a workaround which survives reboots, you could try changing /etc/PolicyKit/PolicyKit.conf to include:

[FONT="System"]    <match user="*user*">
           <return result="yes"/>
    </match>
[/FONT]
See "man PolicyKit.conf". I haven't tried this, though.

Of course, anyone using either of these suggestions should think through the security implications.

---

### Post by HousieMousie2 on 2008-08-27
Thanks for the suggestion.

I added the drive to the etc/fstab file and set the permissions for that drive.  Works now, no password prompts... Amarok has no issues getting media off of the other drive.

---

### Post by Graeme Hewson on 2008-08-30
Well, I've just rebooted after a whole load of updates appeared a few days ago, and everything's fine now. I don't get prompted for my password when I plug in a disk, and polkit-auth shows I have a full complement of authorizations.

---

### Post by DarkReverend on 2009-04-25
> **Graeme Hewson said:**
> This happens on one machine I use, but other Hardy machines don't have the problem.

Does the command "polkit-auth" show nothing? Try running as root:

[FONT="System"]polkit-auth --user *user* --grant org.freedesktop.hal.storage.mount-removable[/FONT]

Now "polkit-auth" should show you have the the authorization to mount removable media, and in fact I can. That may or may not be useful to you depending on how often you reboot, of course.

It's a puzzle, though, that in /usr/share/PolicyKit/policy/org.freedesktop.hal.storage.policy the error message "System policy prevents mounting internal media" is for fixed, not removable media.

For a workaround which survives reboots, you could try changing /etc/PolicyKit/PolicyKit.conf to include:

[FONT="System"]    <match user="*user*">
           <return result="yes"/>
    </match>
[/FONT]
See "man PolicyKit.conf". I haven't tried this, though.

Of course, anyone using either of these suggestions should think through the security implications.

This ALMOST solved a problem that had been bugging me for months.  I had the mount-removable permission already, but when I added the mount-fixed, I was once again able to mount USB drives.  thank you for helping to solve this Major headache.

---

