---
title: "Nvidia badly broken with Gutsy"
date: 2007-11-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ephonk on 2007-11-21
Ok, I am moving back to XP now.  Not happy about it, but I have stuff to do that I need my computer for, and Gutsy (well, Nvidia actually) has really let me down.

I had a terrific Feisty installation and was quite happy with it.  I was so happy with it that I was looking forward to the Gutsy upgrade, and so confident that I didn't back up the old system.  Yeah, fatal mistake, I know...

Lemme back up and give a couple specs here...  I have a Nvidia GE Force 5700 LE card.  For a monitor, I have a 52" HDTV, a Mitsubishi WD52525.  The HDTV has a very limited native resolution set.  1280x720 ended up working well.  I'll list the working xorg.conf at the end of this note.

So once I'd upgraded to Gutsy, I never got the 1280x720 resolution back.  I never got any resolution I could stand working with.  The best I could manage was 1024x768 at a 5:4 aspect, which looked like hell.  Telling the driver that the monitor was widescreen pushed it out far beyond the boundaries of the visible desktop, like I could only see 1/4 of it at a time and had to scroll around.

I tried Envy.  Nice utility, but no help here.  I tried calculating and writing custom modelines.  No-go.  And of course I tried simply applying the xorg.conf that worked in Feisty.  Nope.

So I reinstalled Feisty and was happy again.  Everything worked like it was supposed to.  Until they pushed the updated Nvidia driver and I was back in the EXACT same situation in Feisty that I had been in with Gutsy.  This made me so angry that I cannot bear to re-install even my beloved Feisty.  I feel betrayed.  Grrr.  

Yes, it did occur to me that the update might actually break my system.  This thought came the split second after I hit the "Accept Changes" button.

Paradoxically, XP gives me a clean 1280x720 widescreen right out of the box.  So, I'm stuck going back to XP.  I'll probably try some other distros at some point, but I suspect that anyone who uses the Nvidia driver is going to give me the same problems.

If anyone wants to try to help solve this issue I will be more than happy to rip things up again - I really did love my Kubuntu experience for the most part, and I REALLY miss Amarok.  I can't believe how badly Windows Media Player blows.

So, Thanks for reading thru this sad story.  As promised, here's the xorg.conf file that worked in Feisty:

[FONT="Courier New"]#
# Nvidia GeForce 5700 LE
# Mitsubishi WD-52525 HDTV
# Kubuntu 7.04
#
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings: version 1.0 (buildmeister@builder3) Thu Nov 9 17:56:12 PST 2006

Section "ServerLayout"
Identifier "Layout0"
Screen 0 "Screen0" 0 0
InputDevice "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
InputDevice "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
RgbPath "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
Load "dbe"
Load "extmod"
Load "type1"
Load "freetype"
Load "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
Option "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Mouse0"
Driver "mouse"
Option "Protocol" "auto"
Option "Device" "/dev/psaux"
Option "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
Option "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
# generated from default
Identifier "Keyboard0"
Driver "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
# HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
Identifier "Monitor0"
VendorName "Unknown"
ModelName "Mitsubishi MEUSPTV3"
HorizSync 15.0 - 48.0
VertRefresh 59.0 - 61.0
Option "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
Identifier "Videocard0"
Driver "nvidia"
VendorName "NVIDIA Corporation"
BoardName "GeForce FX 5700LE"
Option "NoLogo" "On"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "metamodes" "1280x720 +0+0; 1280x768 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1600x1200" "1280x1024" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection
[/FONT]

---

### Post by mpierce on 2007-11-21
You probably need to upgrade your driver to the nvidia-glx driver. I just replaced my graphics card with a Nividia 6200 256Mb one and everything when blank, i.e., no screen and no terminal. I had to access box and fix it by telnet. 

If that driver doesn't work, go to the nVidia site and download one of their drivers and install it. 

If you think the driver that you are using is correct, you can reconfigure everything from the console by:
   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

This will allow you to reconfigure you keyboard settings and monitor to use your nvidia driver. 

After you reconfigure, I would compare old xorg.conf.dpkg.bak settings and copy relevent lines to new file and restart the X server, e.g.,
   /etc/init.d/kdm restart or 
   /etc/init.d/gdm restart

Persistence and a little patience will usually solve your problem without the need to revert to another OS but then, if you want to, you want to.

Hope this helps...

---

### Post by mpierce on 2007-11-21
BTW, forgot to add, I upgrade my video card to run Compiz which is spectacular!

Good luck...

---

### Post by ephonk on 2007-11-21
Thanks mpierce!

I will give all of this stuff a try...  It's very similar to much I've tried before, but with a couple of new things that might make the difference, like I'm pretty sure I haven't ever used the -phigh flags. 

And no I really don't want to be on XP.  But I did spend *weeks* on this back when Gutsy first arrived and it just wore me out.  Exceeded my persistence vs. pain threshold.  

But I will surely keep trying...

Thanks again!

---

### Post by g2g591 on 2007-11-21
[FONT=Courier New]I'd say (may or may not work but this is my best guess) remove the "1600x1200" from the modes section of the screen section and change the "1280x1024" to "1280x720" so it looks like this:
[/FONT]> Section "Screen"
Identifier "Screen0"
Device "Videocard0"
Monitor "Monitor0"
DefaultDepth 24
Option "metamodes" "1280x720 +0+0; 1280x768 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; 800x600 +0+0; 640x480 +0+0"
SubSection "Display"
Depth 24
Modes "1280x720" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by ephonk on 2007-11-21
Huh!!  I hadn't noticed I was out of synch there.  Good catch.

Another thing to take note of for when I dive back into it.

Thank you g2g591!

---

