---
title: "How-to: Have your /home on an NTFS partition"
date: 2008-12-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by unprinted on 2008-12-08
The basic problem we need to overcome is that *ix and Windows use different models of 'ownership' of files and directories. The default ntfs driver allows you to do a subset of operations on ntfs partitions, but this isn't enough to allow you to have a working /home directory system on an ntfs partition.

See [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=901127") and [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=956812") for two examples of saying it can't be done.

But it can...

**There is a risk of data loss with this - if you do not need to do it, do not try.**

My excuse is that the online backup service I use will not look at any partition that is not FAT32 or NTFS format and I would like to use it to back up /home. I could (should?) just mount the partition as a subdirectory in /home, but on a new system, there wasn't much to lose.

**You need:**

[LIST]
[*]a system that will happily dual boot into Windows 2000/XP/Vista and Ubuntu.
[*]an NTFS partition for Windows' system files
[*]an ext3 or other format partition for Ubuntu's / partition
[*]an NTFS partition, preferably freshly formatted, to share between the two and which you can currently read/write to under Ubuntu
[*]an Ubuntu user account for all Windows user accounts who may wish to access the /home partition and vice versa
[*]printed instructions for moving /home onto a new partition. Various tutorials exist - I used [this one on psychocats]("http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/separatehome")
[*]an up to date backup (see warning on top!)
[*]to read all these instructions - if you don't feel able to do any of them, stop now!
[/LIST]

It is probably possible to have /home on the Windows' system partition, but again see the first warning: you could lose that. 

1. The ntfs drivers we will be using use a file, /.NTFS-3G/UserMapping,  to tell it how to convert the Windows permissions system into the *ix one and vice versa. You can download Windows and Linux programs to generate the file [here]("http://pagesperso-orange.fr/b.andre/usermap.html").

You will end up with something like:

```

# Generated by usermap for Windows, v 1.1.0
:ian:S-1-5-21-3746740168-3059144531-1038510649-513
ian:ian:S-1-5-21-3746740168-3059144531-1038510649-1002

```

So 'ian', the Ubuntu user (and group) will be writing files with Windows permissions for user 1002 (as it happens, the Windows 'ian' account) with the Security Identifier (SID) of that long number.

There should be one line per user, typically in the order the accounts were created.

The usermap utilities are not particularly helpful in showing which named account uses which SID - if necessary, look at the Windows registry to map names to SIDs and edit the UserMapping file as necessary. 

The resulting info which needs to go in /.NTFS-3G/UserMapping for each of the partitions you want to be able to use. The directory and filename need to be the correct case.

2. Download the advanced ntfs-3g driver source code [from the ntfs-3g site]("http://pagesperso-orange.fr/b.andre/advanced-ntfs-3g.html"). As of writing, the latest version is 1.5130AR.1 - note the AR! Without that, you will have the standard drivers, without the permissions code. 

3. Expand the zipped tarball - if you need to be told how, you should probably not try to do this, so stop now! - and change to the ntfs-3g-1.5130AR.1 directory (the name of this will change when the driver version number changes).

4. Even the advanced drivers do not have the necessary options installed by default, so you need to change

```
#define POSIXACLS 0
```

to

```
#define POSIXACLS 1
```

in include/ntfs-3g/security.h and src/secaudit.h

5. Remove the existing ntfs drivers

```
sudo aptitude purge ntfs
```

6. Install the new ntfs-3g drivers

```
./configure
make
sudo make install
```

7. Edit /etc/fstab (again, if you need to be told how, stop now)

The current driver for the partition you want to use (mine was previously mounted as '/data') will probably be ntfs, change it to ntfs-3g with options 'defaults,nodev,nosuid'

```
UUID=(16 digit hex number) /data           ntfs-3g    defaults,nodev,nosuid  0       1

```

8. Reboot back into Ubuntu. You should be able to access the same ntfs partitions as before. 

9. Follow the 'move /home to a new partition' instructions, from the point where you have created the new partition. You will need to change lines like

```
sudo mount -t ext3 /dev/sda3 /new
```

to 

```
sudo mount -t ntfs-3g /dev/sda3 /new
```

(As mentioned on that how-to, your device will probably be different - mine is /dev/sda6, for example)

You will know if something has gone wrong if 

```
find . -depth -print0 | cpio --null --sparse -pvd /new/
```

produces pages of errors. Permission errors probably point to a problem with your UserMapping file or a failure to edit the ntfs-3g source code.

---

