---
title: "11.04 and fglrx Problems"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by asalina on 2011-04-30
Excerpt of Xorg.0.log output:

[948402.264] (II) fglrx(0): Kernel Module Version Information:
[948402.264] (II) fglrx(0):     Name: fglrx
[948402.264] (II) fglrx(0):     Version: 8.78.30
[948402.264] (II) fglrx(0):     Date: Sep 20 2010
[948402.264] (II) fglrx(0):     Desc: ATI FireGL DRM kernel module
[948402.264] (WW) fglrx(0): Kernel Module version does *not* match driver.
[948402.264] (EE) fglrx(0): incompatible kernel module detected - HW accelerated OpenGL will not work

September 20 2010???

Is there a newer kernel module for fglrx? How can I get and install it?

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-04-30
Which Ubuntu is that? You need to reinstall the ATI driver, can you boot into graphics at all?

You can try to boot into "safe mode", then uninstall the current driver, then boot normally and install the ATI driver again.

---

### Post by asalina on 2011-04-30
> **3Miro said:**
> Which Ubuntu is that? You need to reinstall the ATI driver, can you boot into graphics at all?

You can try to boot into "safe mode", then uninstall the current driver, then boot normally and install the ATI driver again.

I'm not sure what you mean by which Ubuntu. It's 'regular' Ubuntu Desktop, I guess.

System Monitor claims:

Release 11.04 (natty)
Kernel Linux 2.6.35-28-generic
GNOME 2.32.1

After the first restart I was informed that I didn't have the hardware to run Unity and was
recommended to log back in using Ubuntu Classic, which I did. The reason I didn't have
good enough hardware was because of the fglrx driver issue above.

So to answer your second question, yes, I can boot into graphics, but I have no 3D
acceleration due to the ancient kernel module.

---

### Post by asalina on 2011-04-30
Update: I tried re-installing fglrx (both by marking for re-installation, and then after that
failed, removing and then installing again). Still have the same problem. Kernel module
for fglrx  (Sept. 2010 version) is not compatible with the fglrx driver.

This all worked fine with 10.10, BTW.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-04-30
When we ask for "Which Ubuntu" this means 10.04, 10.10, 11.04 (your case).

The proper way to reinstall the driver is to:
1. Go to Additional Drivers (System -> Admin)
2. Deactivate the driver
3. Reboot
4. Activate the driver
5. Reboot

My guess is that when you upgraded to 11.04, the driver did not get updated. Synaptic probably doesn't do all the steps required to reinstall the driver, that is why we have the Additional Drivers utility.

I hope this helps.

---

### Post by clhsharky on 2011-04-30
> Kernel Linux 2.6.35-28-generic
Is a Maverick kernel

Natty is at Kernel Linux 2.6.38-8
If that makes any difference!
Some thing is not matching up.


Sharky

---

### Post by asalina on 2011-05-01
> **clhsharky said:**
> Is a Maverick kernel

Natty is at Kernel Linux 2.6.38-8
If that makes any difference!
Some thing is not matching up.


Sharky


Yup, that was the problem. Seems I hadn't rebooted like I thought I had. I'm sure I restarted
the system but I can't remember the details now.

Thanks for the clue.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2011-05-01
> **asalina said:**
> Yup, that was the problem. Seems I hadn't rebooted like I thought I had. I'm sure I restarted
the system but I can't remember the details now.

Thanks for the clue.

If this resolves your issue, please mark the thread as "solved".

---

### Post by Lupajz on 2011-05-01
No this doesn't solve his problem. I have very same problem with fglrx becouse Natty isn't compatible with driver. 

```
sudo aticonfig --initial -f
```

Try to run this. It gives me linking error :P

---

### Post by cottfcfan on 2011-05-01
I get the same error.
The only way ive found is by downloading the latest driver from here:
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx)
And following the installation method from the release notes off the same site.
The driver installs correctly and the error disappears, but i have to warn you that in my case the graphics are still poor.

---

### Post by aeronutt on 2011-05-01
> **cottfcfan said:**
> I get the same error.
The only way ive found is by downloading the latest driver from here:
[http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx](http://support.amd.com/us/gpudownload/Pages/index.aspx)
And following the installation method from the release notes off the same site.
The driver installs correctly and the error disappears, but i have to warn you that in my case the graphics are still poor.

Thanks for the ati driver site! Anyone know how to tell what version of fglrx is included with 11.04?  I can't tell from synaptic or from 'additional drivers' GUI. (I've been having a time with my graphics cards too. They perform much better in windows than under 11.04.)

---

