---
title: "Is this an Ubuntu or a Firefox issue not-fetching websites ?"
date: 2014-11-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Innernet on 2014-11-27
Hi all.

For a couple of months now, access to any web page is taking about half a minute -if I do not get a "Server not found" or timeout- message.
After _half a minute or more_, a very delayed "Looking up www.something" appears at the bottom left of screen, and if lucky, loads it.

Noticed that if I close and reopen Firefox; the fetching is very fast, instantaneous, normal.  But when at a web site, navigating to another page, hangs as explained, unless I close the browser and reopen again.

Running 14.04 + Gnome + Firefox on new hard drive since a couple of weeks ago.  And did the same behavior with 12.04 + Gnome + Old Firefox v14 in old hard drive.

Please help with diagnostics/tweaks.

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2014-11-27
Please read my contribution (post #10) to this related thread .. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2254271](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2254271)

---

### Post by Innernet on 2014-11-27
Thanks, dragonfly41.

The first request for 'Vital stats' hanged, as typical symptom :  
[ATTACH=CONFIG]258240[/ATTACH]
After 'Try again'; shows startups, which seem decent :
[ATTACH=CONFIG]258241[/ATTACH]
Startups times are not a concern; it is the fetching of a web site the very delayed -when successful-

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-11-27
Innernet; Hello;

Your attachments did not take.; FYI.

In any event, is this a DNS issue ?

What is set for your 'nameserver' ?
```

cat /etc/resolv.conf

```

And, while we are at it, may as well look and see what is set up for networking:
```

cat /etc/network/interfaces

```

We see where to go from these outputs. In this case "code tags" work better to relay the information.
code tag tutorial:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2171721&p=12776168#post12776168)

In the system it is a failure
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]to communicate
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Innernet on 2014-11-27
Thanks.

externet@externet-Compaq-Presario-CQ60-Notebook-PC:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 127.0.1.1
externet@externet-Compaq-Presario-CQ60-Notebook-PC:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

I do can see the attachments ¿?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-11-27
Innernet; Hey !


Not important, but I get:
> 
Invalid Attachment specified. If you followed a valid link, please notify the administrator

when I click your links.

as to what is:
For reference on my system ( no Network Manager used, in my case):
```

 sysop@1404mini:~$ cat /etc/resolv.conf
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 208.180.42.68
nameserver 208.180.42.100
nameserver 0.0.0.0

sysop@1404mini:~$ cat /etc/network/interfaces
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
##changed eth0 to eth1 26feb2014##
auto eth1
iface eth1 inet dhcp
sysop@1404mini:~$

```

Before we go editing the files for a qualified nameserver, and stipulating a network interface,- OR we Try reconfiguring the resolvconf package-; let's look at some other files:
```

cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules

```

It really helps to put your outputs in "code tags", please.

Now we do know what the problem is, looking now to see the avenue for resolution.

In my little mind
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]taking small steps
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Innernet on 2014-11-27
Thanks.
For the last request:

> externet@externet-Compaq-Presario-CQ60-Notebook-PC:~$ cat /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
[main]
plugins=ifupdown,keyfile,ofono
dns=dnsmasq

[ifupdown]
managed=false



> 
externet@externet-Compaq-Presario-CQ60-Notebook-PC:~$ cat /etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-net.rules
# This file was automatically generated by the /lib/udev/write_net_rules
# program, run by the persistent-net-generator.rules rules file.
#
# You can modify it, as long as you keep each rule on a single
# line, and change only the value of the NAME= key.

# PCI device 0x10de:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:0a.0 (forcedeth)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:1f:16:7f:26:df", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="eth*", NAME="eth0"

# PCI device 0x168c:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/0000:07:00.0 (ath5k)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:24:2c:75:a7:a4", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan0"


Retrying the previous unattached :

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-11-27
Innernet; HoKay !

We can make a plan.
This:
> 
ifupdown]
managed=false


Tells the system "YOU" are going to manage the networking. If that is your desire, we can do that.
There is this to consider:
> 
# PCI device 0x168c:/sys/devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:14.0/0000:07:00.0 (ath5k)
SUBSYSTEM=="net", ACTION=="add", DRIVERS=="?*", ATTR{address}=="00:24:2c:75:a7:a4", ATTR{dev_id}=="0x0", ATTR{type}=="1", KERNEL=="wlan*", NAME="wlan0"


Do you also use the wireless network ?
Else we need to consider letting the system manage the Networking.

Also may I see the output:
```

cat /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf

```
as you are using the forcedeth network driver I want to see the options that are set.

[INDENT][INDENT]where there are solutions there are no problems
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by Innernet on 2014-11-27
Thanks.
For the request :
I have very poor skills with compfusers.  Do not know if I really want to manage the network. Too easy for me to goof and end lost in space.

> externet@externet-Compaq-Presario-CQ60-Notebook-PC:~$ cat /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf
cat: /etc/modprobe.d/forcedeth.conf: No such file or directory


I **only** use a wifi hot spot as internet source. No wired networking at all.

Sorry, I cannot make it in ´&#263;ode' as my keyboard layout is today stuck in another language and refuses to come back to english layout to find the brackets.

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-11-27
Innernet; Hooo Boy;

> 
I only use a wifi hot spot as internet source. No wired networking at all.


Places things in a different perspective for me; I have no experience trouble shooting WIFI as I have never had an occasion to do so.

Let's have the system manage the  Networking:
To do so we need to tell the system it has control. Edit the file " /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf " :
```

sudo cp /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf-bak
gksudo gedit /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf

```
Now the file is opened: change in the line " managed=false" to:
```

managed=true

```
save the file and exit back to terminal:
Now to reconfigure the network, There is a wizard to do that for you:
```

sudo dpkg-reconfigure resolvconf

```
It will present you with a question about preparing /etc/resolv.conf for dynamic updates - answer "Yes". It may also present you with another question about temporarily appending your existing config to the dynamic one - I suggest answering "No" to that one.

Let's see if the wizard will find and activate the correct 'nameserver' .


[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]maybe yes
[INDENT][INDENT][INDENT]maybe not so yes
[/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2014-11-27
Hi

Create a new Firefox profile and see if the problem persists.

That'll help eliminate / implicate Firefox.

You can start Firefox from the terminal or the run dialog passing in -ProfileManager and -no-remote.

You do want to check the above switches by reading the man page for Firefox as I am nowhere near a Linux box.

Kind regard

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-11-27
@ Matt; Hi !

Pleased you dropped in.

@ heads better than 1, and this one is knuckle headed .

:)

---

