---
title: "11.10 broken after update from 11.04"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Seregwethrin on 2011-10-14
Hi,

My Ubuntu asked me to update to 11.10 from 11.04, I said yes and entered my password for authorization.

It said there's like 8 hours to finish so I slept. When I woke up there's only mouse cursor and black screen.

I explicitly restarted my computer. Than it stuck on boot screen. It says something like "Waiting for network configuration" and after says "Continuing without network configuration" and stucks there too.

What do you suggest me to do?

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2011-10-14
Check some of the other threads out .... maybe a answer will arrive soon for network
problems in one of them ......

---

### Post by Seregwethrin on 2011-10-14
But it is not a problem of network configuration. It remains on booting screen after no network notification. So it's a general error occured during update.

I think that maybe some files are corrupted during update.

---

### Post by joaopinheiro on 2011-10-16
My Asus notebook upgrade ended up the same way. But my main PC upgraded fine. But today, after I shut it down, I have the same problem... I'm very disappointed with this. It's the first time in more than 10 years of using Linux that something so bad happens... And I don't understand the reason why it happened!!! Some help would be greatly appreciated...

---

### Post by Seregwethrin on 2011-10-16
I just want to know could we fix this with inserting ubuntu cd/dvd and booting from it, installing again without losing any files? Maybe even settings?

---

### Post by mar11 on 2011-10-16
I faced the nearly the same problem. Please check my thread.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862116](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1862116)

please tell me if you figured it out. I will do the same.

---

### Post by Seregwethrin on 2011-10-18
I put the Ubuntu cd and pressed Update from 11.10 to 11.10 two times and it stuck in both while updating at very different points.

THANK YOU UBUNTU. THANK YOU FOR BRUISE MY TRUST IN LINUX..

---

### Post by drawkcab on 2011-10-18
Given the radical changes I do think that upgrading is unwise.  You can access your files and back them up from a live cd.  Then I would recommend a fresh install.

Two of my upgraded systems were workable but buggy.  Fresh install has left me with no problems whatsoever.

---

### Post by Seregwethrin on 2011-10-18
I'll do that but I don't have time and now I'm stuck with Windows until I have time. I had many server programs installed and configured, many settings done at my Ubuntu so it will take a lot time for me to do them again..

---

### Post by bobski60 on 2011-10-18
Gonna bump this as I too am having probs, I went for the upgrade from 04 to 10 but as with the connection that did come back but all the links on the desktop Icons all lead to Ubuntu Software center (strange but true. I too have installed server progs so.
Can we install 11.10 on CD then do a fresh install and not loose anything ( I should have done that in the first place....done a fresh install I mean ) BUT LOOSING everything is very drastic....ie: all programmes installed and server configuration etc...
The lad is coming home this weekend  and I promised a nice new computer setup and running so he can still play his games on...blow blast blimey

---

### Post by _MOLE_ on 2011-10-18
> **Seregwethrin said:**
> I put the Ubuntu cd and pressed Update from 11.10 to 11.10 two times and it stuck in both while updating at very different points.

THANK YOU UBUNTU. THANK YOU FOR BRUISE MY TRUST IN LINUX..

Yup, mine broken, too.

I have been using Linux since 1995 and have used GNU since day 1.
And I am **NOT** happy with the declining quality of each Ubuntu iteration. 

My HP DC7100 w/ ATI (RV370) graphics has got less and less usable. 

Now it is UN-*******-USABLE.

"Hey, Canonical, are you taking backhanders from someone to make the quality of the 'free' product low, in order to sell people support, THANK YOU FOR ******* UP A PERFECTLY GOOD OS, DEBIAN"

---

### Post by Seregwethrin on 2011-10-18
I think it is because they are trying to make Ubuntu as "human friendly"

If something is more friendly means error messages and other useful reports are gone.

If I would see the problem, I could search for it on the internet and fix it. But I can't...

---

### Post by Nekksys on 2011-10-18
This bug is due to a change in the way the running programs and associated lock files are kept. The fix is simple. 

******************************* IMPORTANT NOTE *******************************
You will be performing some of these tasks from the command line as the ROOT user!
Do NOT deviate from the commands given as you will TANK your system if done incorrectly
****************************************************************************************

1.) Go to a command console after booting your machine by pressing CTRL+ALT+F4 - The console at CTRL+ALT+F1 may be busy or unresponsive so use F4 for now.

2.) You will have to log in as ROOT or a SUDO user and DELETE the file "pid" from the /var/run/dbus directory
  If you logged in as a SUDO user, run the following command:

    sudo -i

And then run: 
rm /var/run/dbus/pid

3.) Reboot the system:

    shutdown -r now

4.) Log in as usual

******************************* IMPORTANT NOTE *******************************
 The following section will take place after you have logged in. Again, follow these instructions exactly
****************************************************************************************

 5.) Open your file manager AS ROOT - This _***_MUST_***_ be done as ROOT. No exceptions!!!!

6.) Copy everything inside the /var/run directory into /run - You will get some errors. It's OK. Don't worry. We mainly need the associated stuff and directories that live there. Choose "Skip" or "Autoskip" and move on to step 3.

7.) Copy everything inside the /var/lock directory to /run/lock - Same thing goes here as for step 2 above.

******************************* IMPORTANT NOTE *******************************
FROM HERE ON OUT, you'll want to write these directions down because you will NOT have GUI to help you. Do NOT deviate from the instructions given here or you WILL COMPLETELY TANK YOUR SYSTEM.
****************************************************************************************

8.)  Press CTRL+ALT+F1 and log in as either ROOT or a user with SUDO privileges

9.) If you logged in as a SUDO user, run the following command:

    sudo -i

10.) Now that you're root, run the following commands based on your system:

For KDE systems
    service kdm stop

For GNOME systems
    service gdm stop

For XFCE systems
    service xdm stop

If you get an error or no feedback at all, try one of the other system's commands.

11.) Change directories to /var using:

    cd /var

12.) DELETE the run directory inside /var

    rm -rf run

13.) DELETE the lock directory inside /var

    rm -rf lock

14.) Create a symlink to /run using /var/run as the link name

    ln -s /run /var/run

15.) Create a symlink to /run/lock using /var/lock as the link name

    ln -s /run/lock /var/lock

16.) Reboot the system

    shutdown -r now

******************************* IMPORTANT NOTE *******************************
If you have done everything exactly as noted here, you will come back to a properly running system.
****************************************************************************************

---

### Post by joaopinheiro on 2011-10-19
I'll move back to 11.04...

---

### Post by typal on 2011-10-20
I did the above steps, but I'm still having an issue. Shutdown is much faster, and programs to close when I enter the shutdown command, but if I read the output as my computer is shutting down (hit escape at the purple screen with Ubuntu and the dots), I get a ```
Killing all remaining processes...                      [fail]
```

Granted, it helped a lot, so thank you, but I'm still not comfortable with processes not being shut down properly.

---

### Post by deesto on 2011-10-31
> **Nekksys said:**
> This bug is due to a change in the way the running programs and associated lock files are kept.

May I ask for specifics on what the lock file change was?  

Perhaps someone knows why such a change would be made in a "minor" release, when so many people would be prompted by the OS itself to upgrade?  Surely this couldn't have gone untested.

I upgraded a working 11.04 VirtualBox VM over the weekend and now have a non-working blob of a VM image file.  Thanks for your procedure; I'll give it a try.

---

### Post by bochi2 on 2011-11-25
I have tried every fix I found here several times after upgrading to Kubuntu 11.10. All the /var/run and /run/lock and simlinks seem to be correct. I also did the chmod on those files as suggested. 

I'm still getting the long boot "waiting for network configuration" etc. I don't want to do a reinstall as several things now work better with this upgrade, ironically networking. Network manager now connects automatically to my wired broadband and I was able to configure my VPN to work in NM manager. In the previous version (11.04 I think) I had to use wicd and shrew to make these connections.

So I can live with this if I have to, but there should be a fix. Go make a sandwich while I wait for Kubuntu to boot seems uncool. Today there was a kernel upgrade, which I prayed would fix this , but not. I  have a dual boot with Windows so I can do Windows if I'm in a hurry, but I prefer using Linux. In the 'old days' we could make a batch file to fix things like this, so it would seem that someone could create a script for this. I'm sure I'm not the only one still suffering with this, so I hope someone can come up with something that really works. :(

---

### Post by bochi2 on 2011-11-25
Did you ever find a fix? I'm stuck too.

---

### Post by deesto on 2011-12-17
bochi2: if you're still stuck, one suggestion I have would be to try the upgrade procedure again, and let it go as far as it can before giving up.  I did this a few times, and it failed twice before succeeding and going all the way through.  After that and in addition to Nekksys's instructions, I seem to be all sorted.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2011-12-17
> **joaopinheiro said:**
> I'll move back to 11.04...
That's what I did.

---

