---
title: "10.10 Desktop: partitions, ntfs, ext4, and performance"
date: 2010-12-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xiotech on 2010-12-10
Hello All... I have a few general questions that I'm quite unclear about. I installed 32-bit Desktop Version Ubuntu 10.10 using the wubi installer. I'm running a win2003 box with 2 ntfs partitions (C: 50gb, D: 30gb). I installed the ubuntu into the existing D: partition. it runs really great.

Q: Does the installer actually take away a physical piece of that ntfs partition for an Ubuntu 10.10 partition and file system (ext4), or is more of a virtual space thats fooled into thinking it's an 8gb partion and mounts the ext4 file system? 

Q: Would it be better (performance wise) to just kill that D: ntfs partition of mine and re-install offering the desktop installer bare drive space to work with and having a native ext4 file system?

Q: Can I run virtualbox or a similar package within Ubuntu Desktop 10.10 (Single core AMD Athlon 32-bit with 1gb of ram) or do I have to have Ubuntu Server running and at least 64-Bit processor or multiple cores?

Thanks.
Tim

---

### Post by xiotech on 2010-12-11
bump

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-11
Hi.

1. Yes the drive being used for Wubi Ubuntu is actually a virtual drive and shows up as a folder on your NTFS partition. So yes, it takes space from your NTFS partition.

2. Yes having Ubuntu on its own separate partition is recommended as that boosts the performance and is also far more stable than Wubi. Wubi was just intended for testing Linux and not a long term solution.

3. Yes you can run Virtualbox on a single core processor and on Ubuntu Desktop version.

I would not suggest to cleanly wipe Windows unless you are sure you can survive without Windows. For everyone, there are a few apps that need to be run on Windows.

If you are planning to install Ubuntu on its own separate partition, you can always do a proper dual boot that doesn't involve Wubi.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WindowsDualBoot)

If you prefer to keep Wubi, I would suggest to apply the *Permanent Fix* from this thread so that you don't break your Wubi install with update/upgrades.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1639198)

---

