---
title: "10.04 Static IP addresses using Network Manager"
date: 2010-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ozguitarplayer on 2010-05-02
Hi,
I have four PC's in a home network setup, no server just peer to peer using ssh.

I have tended to use wicd to set static IP addresses because Network Manager didn't always perform as I thought it should.
Now that I have installed 10.04 I cannot see how to set static addresses using Network Manager so I installed wicd, and disabled Network Manager.

After setting the address with wicd it shows that the computer is connected to the internet however I cannot get internet access, though I can network with my other computers. I've uninstalled and reinstalled a few times just to check that I haven't been careless but the results are still the same.

I'll happily use either system so long a I get static addresses.

---

### Post by spiky001 on 2010-05-02
dose this help
[http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/ubuntu/change-ubuntu-server-from-dhcp-to-a-static-ip-address/](http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/ubuntu/change-ubuntu-server-from-dhcp-to-a-static-ip-address/)

---

### Post by ozguitarplayer on 2010-05-02
thanks spiky001,
that was a good read and although I didn't try it I was reminded by it that I hadn't properly uninstalled Network Manager when I installed wicd so it sorted the problem for me in a round about way. All is now good...thanks again

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-05-03
> **ozguitarplayer said:**
> Hi,
I have four PC's in a home network setup, no server just peer to peer using ssh.

I have tended to use wicd to set static IP addresses because Network Manager didn't always perform as I thought it should.
Now that I have installed 10.04 I cannot see how to set static addresses using Network Manager so I installed wicd, and disabled Network Manager.
........

It is simple to set a static IP in Network Manager, just go the the IPv4 section and add in the (obvious) data.

---

### Post by lucacerone on 2010-06-19
Actually setting the static ip through network manager works till
you don't log out.. but when you restart your computer the settings disappear... this is a long time issue, it would be nice if it would be solved for the next release!!!

---

### Post by HazelIced on 2011-01-18
I know this is old, but maybe it will help somebody.
I think that to fix the problem of the static ip disappearing when you log out you have to follow instructions like on this other link
[http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/ubuntu/change-ubuntu-server-from-dhcp-to-a-static-ip-address/](http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/ubuntu/change-ubuntu-server-from-dhcp-to-a-static-ip-address/)
And change the /etc/network/interfaces file to add your network and the ip address and all that information.

---

### Post by justborn on 2011-05-24
ifconfig will give me details abt my address,netmask & gateway but how do i get details abt my network and broadcast?

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-24
You can use a bash script file:

In terminal:

touch scriptname.sh

Cut and paste this:

#! /bin/bash
ifconfig
echo
echo Gateway"               "Interface
route -n | awk '/UG/ {printf "%-21s %s\n",$2,$8}'
echo
echo DNS Servers
awk '/nameserver/ {print $2}' /etc/resolv.conf
echo

and then save it..

sudo chmod +x scriptname.sh

And then move it into your PATH

			 				sudo cp scriptname.sh /usr/bin

---

### Post by justborn on 2011-05-26
do i have to remove 'dhcp-client' for these configurations to work.And if yes,how?because synaptic asks to remove 'ubuntu-minimal' too .:confused:

---

