---
title: "13.10 Grub Help"
date: 2013-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by amhainen on 2013-11-30
I hate the purple background on Grub. I just want black. I never seem to have luck with custom background image. What works best is changing Grub so that it's all text.

It's something like console or quiet splash or something. But that flag in /etc/default/grub gives just white monospace text on a black background for Grub.

[B]Does anyone know what flag I'm looking for?
[/B]
Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by amhainen on 2013-11-30
I figured it out:

```
# Uncomment to disable graphical terminal (grub-pc only)
GRUB_TERMINAL="console"
```

With a reinstall every 6 months, I keep forgetting a few things like this.

---

### Post by amhainen on 2013-11-30
This is a pretty good for making Light DM black:

[http://roger.steneteg.org/213/customize-lightdm-in-ubuntu-12-04/](http://roger.steneteg.org/213/customize-lightdm-in-ubuntu-12-04/)

To change this we need to modify the following file
**/usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/com.canonical.unity-greeter.gschema.xml**
 In the file change the following section to point to the wallpaper of your choice
 
<key name="background" type="s">
    <default>'/usr/share/backgrounds/warty-final-ubuntu.png'</default>
    <summary>Background file to use, either an image path or a color (e.g. #772953)</summary>
</key>

You should also change this one to **false**

 <key name="draw-user-backgrounds" type="b">
    <default>false</default>
    <summary>Whether to draw user backgrounds</summary>
</key>

I also prefer to change the **background-color** property to #000000 in order to avoid the orange Ubuntu color to flash before the wallpaper is loaded.
 When you are done with your changes you need to compile the XML  schema files into the binary file gschemas.compiled for the changes to  take effect
 
sudo glib-compile-schemas /usr/share/glib-2.0/schemas/

---

### Post by amhainen on 2013-11-30
With 13.10 on my Dell Alienware M11X R2 with an NVIDIA card (this is key), my fan wouldn't stop running. I ran top/htop to see what was up. I googled and found that this solved my problem:

[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee)


[LIST=1]
[*]sudo add-apt-repository ppa:bumblebee/stable 
[*]Enable the Universe and Multiverse repositories (for bumblebee and nvidia packages respectively). 
[*]sudo apt-get update 
[*]Install Bumblebee using the default proprietary nvidia driver for 12.04 - 13.04 : sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia virtualgl linux-headers-generic
[LIST]
[*]And for 13.10 : 
[/LIST]
sudo apt-get install bumblebee bumblebee-nvidia primus linux-headers-generic  
[*]Reboot 
[/LIST]

Now my fan finally shut off.

Now on to more stupid stuff like restricted extras.

---

