---
title: "load"
date: 2014-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by martin-gustafsson on 2014-11-22
I recently bought a new laptop and installed ubuntu 14.10
I thought the performance was a bit poor, so I added more RAM and a ssd.
Now, the performance it OK, but when I look at the info provided by the top-command (see below) I always see a load level above 1.0, usually around 1.3 when using firefox. 
Even when the computer is rebooted and idle, the load average says 1.02, never below 1.0.
So I wonder, what is the normal load level for unloaded system?
Has it changed an isn't it 0.0 anymore?


top - 14:45:28 up  4:22,  2 users,  load average: 1,42, 1,31, 1,26
Tasks: 199 total,   1 running, 198 sleeping,   0 stopped,   0 zombie
%Cpu(s):  8,9 us,  2,2 sy,  0,0 ni, 88,7 id,  0,2 wa,  0,0 hi,  0,0 si,  0,0 st
KiB Mem:   5996536 total,  1964836 used,  4031700 free,   101464 buffers
KiB Swap:  6174716 total,        0 used,  6174716 free.   926900 cached Mem

  PID USER      PR  NI    VIRT    RES    SHR S  %CPU %MEM     TIME+ COMMAND                                                            
 4296 martin    20   0 1312780 433024  80416 S  17,6  7,2   2:31.09 firefox                                                            
 1215 root      20   0  361276  61424  39400 S   4,0  1,0   6:39.41 Xorg                                                               
 2165 martin    20   0 1469420 105668  59092 S   2,7  1,8   3:36.98 compiz                                                             
 4526 martin    20   0   30388   3324   2800 R   0,7  0,1   0:00.04 top

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2014-11-22
laptop specs?
using Ubuntu (Unity) ? maybe you should try a lighter weight alternative like ubuntu mate or xubuntu

---

### Post by mcduck on 2014-11-22
The (theoretical) idle load would still be 0, not that you'd really expect to ever see that when running a graphical desktop. Of course keep in mind that the "100% use" load level depends on how many processors/cores you have, as load of 1 means one core is (potentially) fully utilized. So for a quad-core i7 with hyperhreading, 100% CPU use would equal 8.0 load (and thus load of 1.0 would equal 12.5% total CPU use).

Also it's worth remembering that load is about more than just actual CPU use, it also includes stuff like IO wait (the processors would have work to do, but needs to wait for some of the required data from your hard rive, or network, for example). So even with normal CPU use, issues with hard drive (or simply checking for updates, downloading or writing a large file etc) can cause high load.

Anyway, there's quite a lot of stuff going on right after a reboot, so you should give it 5 minutes or something before you check the load. And maybe do it before you open any additional applications like Firefox. Then it's probably worth checking the actual CPU use of processes top reports to see what might be causing the load. If there's no process using CPU but the load is still high, then [iotop]("http://www.cyberciti.biz/hardware/linux-iotop-simple-top-like-io-monitor/") might give you a better answer (I don't think it's installed by default, but it's available in the repositories.)

---

### Post by martin-gustafsson on 2014-11-22
The laptop is a Dell Vostro 2521 with a Intel 2127U processor.
It came with 2GB ram and a SATA-disk.
I added 4 more GB of ram, so 6 in total.
Also replaced the SATA-drive with a SSD.
I don't see any high cpu-load and not any high io-load either from iotop, so I am a bit confused.

Direclty after reboot I launched a terminal and started top. The load was 0.5 but increased constantly up to 1 even wiithout and new proccesses started (by me).
I am wondering if there might be load generated by the network/wifi-driver. lspci reports:
Network controller: Qualcomm Atheros QCA9565 / AR9565 Wireless Network Adapter (rev 01)

A modern computer with the hardware I have should be able to handle a normal Ubuntu desktop, so I am reluctant in replacing it with xubuntu or lubuntu. The computer came preinstalled with an older Ubuntu-release, but I don't remember which. However if there is some issue with 14.10 and my hardware, I will condsider reinstalling it with 14.04 or the one below.. On the other hand I am not sure if it (the abnormal load) really is a problem as long as it is performing ok.

---

### Post by martin-gustafsson on 2014-11-22
Found an usb-stick with ubuntu 14.04.1 and rebooted with it. The load level was about 0.5 when running it from usb, so I concluded that there is something wrong with 14.10 that gererates a lot of load with my hardware. Decided to revert back to 14.04. The computer has just been reinstalled with 14.04 now and the load level stays close to 0 when idle instead of 1. Another difference is that the fan stays silent with the new installation as opposed to before when is was running at maximum speed most of the time.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-11-22
> **martin-gustafsson said:**
> The laptop is a Dell Vostro 2521 with a Intel 2127U processor. ...

A modern computer with the hardware I have should be able to handle a normal Ubuntu desktop, so I am reluctant in replacing it with xubuntu or lubuntu. The computer came preinstalled with an older Ubuntu-release, but I don't remember which. ...
IIRC, Dell puts 12.04 LTS on their laptops; I don't know if the version is the latest point release or the original 12.04 from way back.

And the video section is like this:```

Video Card

    Intel® HD Graphics 3000
    Optional AMD HD7670M 1GB
```Did you go for the optional AMD?

---

