---
title: "12.04 - installing latest Nouveau Driver"
date: 2012-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-12-28
I have two desktops that have different nvidia cards and both have random shutdown problems.  I've tried all the 'fixes' (there are many of them) but nothing works.  I would like to try and purge the nvidia drivers (which I have done) and use the latest Nouveau driver.  I have purged nvidia-current on both machines and all seems fine - but I have no idea what driver I am using.  Most google attempts on installing/find out about the Nouveau driver are about replacing the Nouveau driver with Nvidia - not what I want. The latest Nouveau package, I think is, version 1.0.4 but when I enter this in terminal **egrep -i " connected|card detect|primary dev" /var/log/Xorg.0.log** I get: 

**[    19.718] (II) NOUVEAU(0): Output DVI-I-1 connected**

Not sure how the above relates to version 1.0.4.  How can I find out what Nouveau version I am running and how do I install the latest version?  Many thanks.

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-12-28
Hi!, **Quarkrad**,

Run Synaptic Package Manager - you may need to install it - with 'nouveau' as Search filter.

The package name is "xserver-xorg-video-nouveau" and it will have a green flag against it if it is installed.I f not you can install it from there.

The version number shown against mine is: 1.1.0.2-0ubuntu3. [ in 12.10 Quantel.]

You can also check from a terminal::```
~$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3 vga # will tell if it is used
apt-cache policy xserver-xorg-video-nouveau
xserver-xorg-video-nouveau:
  Installed: 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3
  Candidate: 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3
  Version table:
 *** 1:1.0.2-0ubuntu3 0
        500 http://gb.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ quantal/main i386 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status
~$ 
```Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2012-12-29
Thanks, Synaptic showed I have the same version as you.  Interestingly the terminal command gave me:

[B]$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3
Usage: grep [OPTION]... PATTERN [FILE]...
Try `grep --help' for more information.[/B]

how do I ensure it is kept at the latest version?  Do you have to have a ppa ref or is it built-in with new kernel updates?

---

### Post by bogan on 2012-12-29
> **Quarkrad said:**
> Thanks, Synaptic showed I have the same version as you.  Interestingly the terminal command gave me:

[B]$ lspci -nnk | grep -iA3
Usage: grep [OPTION]... PATTERN [FILE]...
Try `grep --help' for more information.[/B]

how do I ensure it is kept at the latest version?  Do you have to have a ppa ref or is it built-in with new kernel updates?Sorry, my typo: the command should be:```
lspci -nnk | grep -1A3 [COLOR=Blue]vga[/COLOR]
```It is supposed to be built-in to updates.

Chao!,** bogan.**

---

