---
title: "11.10 - Dual Monitor - Wacom Cintic - Nvidia"
date: 2011-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jamie-khan on 2011-11-13
Hi Guys,

I upgraded to 11.10 a few days ago and it has completely screwed my dual monitor set up.

On my previous setup the Ubuntu display menu picked up and identified my monitor and wacom cintiq 12in screen. I was then able to use the xsetwacom and MapToOutput controls to make a start up script that would map the stylus to the wacom.

From what I have read on forums 11.10 has some trouble with nvidia cards and dual monitor displays. Im using the 3rd party drivers provided by Nvidia, this gives me dual display but its all configured by the Nvidia set up controls, in the Ubuntu display settings my monitor appears as one big unidentified display (1280 x 1824).

I checked over on the linux wacom project webpage and it seemed there was a way to achieve the same result as the MapToOutput control while using Nvidia but it was completely over my head.

I was wondering what my options are here. Should I roll back to a previous version? (would rather not as I love the unity desktop and all that). Could I get a different video card, one that integrates better and would allow me to use the xsetwacom tools that im used to? or is there a way I can get ubuntu to pick up my monitors again as it did before?

Any help much appreciated.

Jamie.

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-11-13
Hi jamie-khan,

I believe Jason has finished adding Nvidia proprietary driver support to MapToOutput.  So you may be able to use that instead of the CTM method.  You'll need to clone the xf86-input-wacom git repository to get his updates.  Instructions are on the [BambooPT HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1515562") part II. or the [LinuxWacom HOW TO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1038949") section 2.

---

### Post by jamie-khan on 2011-11-13
Hi Favux,

Thanks for your reply, both links look very helpful. I will have a go at getting this working later tomorrow and will update the thread with how I get on.

Thanks again,

Jamie.

---

### Post by jamie-khan on 2011-11-14
Hello again.

Im still having problems, sorry im pretty useless at this.

I followed the instructions to install and clone the directory in question, everything seemed to go fine. My monitors are still showing as undefined in the Ubuntu Display panel so I dont understand how I am meant to map anything to them. Not sure if I have missed something.

Any help much appreciated (needed)

Thanks for your time so far.

Jamie

---

### Post by Favux on 2011-11-14
Hi Jamie,

> My monitors are still showing as undefined in the Ubuntu Display panel so I dont understand how I am meant to map anything to them.
So I'm guessing:
```
xrandr -q --verbose
```
doesn't distinguish between the monitors when the proprietary Nvidia driver has them?

But doesn't the Nvidia X Server Settings applet show the two monitors?

This is what I've seen so far:
> The NVIDIA binary driver doesn't support RandR 1.2 but it does support Xinerama. Due to a server bug, we still get the current server's RandR version back when we query, so we need to check to the binary driver-specific NV-CONTROL extension first. If that or a RandR < 1.2 version is present fall back to Xinerama if we need to.

User commands:
   xsetwacom set "device name" MapToOutput HEAD-0
   xsetwacom set "device name" MapToOutput HEAD-1
I haven't seen anybody actually try it yet, so that's all we have to work with.  Going through the rest of the patches I see a couple of additional tidbits.

MapToOutput commandline keywords:  next, desktop  (coming keywords: right, left)
Parameter:  "KeepShape"

Not sure if "KeepShape" has actually been fully reintroduced yet.

---

### Post by jamie-khan on 2011-11-17
Hi,

Sorry havnt had chance to post due to work.

Map to 'Head-1' worked fine!

Thanks for all your help.

I didnt realize I could map straight to head-0 and head-1. The monitors dont seem to be named as that anywhere on my system so just glanced over them on the forum how-to not really understanding what it meant.

Again, to all the people who make it possible to run a Wacom on Linux and Ubuntu thank you so much.

jamie

---

