---
title: "12.04 problem with read in sh scripts"
date: 2014-04-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SWTP_Tech on 2014-04-18
I found a script to change the hostname using read like so after my own script failed with read. This script also failed with read:

```
#!/bin/bash
#Assign existing hostname to $hostn
hostn=$(cat /etc/hostname)

#Display existing hostname
echo "Existing hostname is $hostn"

#Ask for new hostname $newhost
echo "Enter new hostname: "
read name

#change hostname in /etc/hosts & /etc/hostname
sudo sed -i "s/$hostn/$name/g" /etc/hosts
sudo sed -i "s/$hostn/$name/g" /etc/hostname

#display new hostname
echo "Your new hostname is $name"

#Press a key to reboot
read -s -n 1 -p "Press any key to reboot"
sudo reboot
```

If I manually enter all the commands, it works perfectly, which is confusing to me.
I know Ubuntu uses Dash instead of Bash, but running it with Bash has no difference.

I was wondering if anyone could point me in the direction of what's wrong?

---

### Post by davea42 on 2014-04-18
It would really be nice if you showed and said precisely what you mean by 'failed with read'.
Unexpected result?  Error message on stderr?    It would be even better to show a failing
complete short example that did not alter system files!

I'm sure this is nothing complicated, but please be more specific.

---

### Post by SWTP_Tech on 2014-04-18
: not foundest.sh: 4: Documents/test.sh: 
Sorry about that, meant to post it with the script and got distracted:
Here's the output of the script that's echo'd into the terminal

```
Existing hostname is POSTEST
: not foundest.sh: 7: Documents/test.sh: 
Enter new hostname: 
asdf
: bad variable name10: read: name
: not foundest.sh: 11: Documents/test.sh: 
```

---

### Post by davea42 on 2014-04-18
In /tmp:
echo q3 >myhostname
echo q3  >myhosts
1156: bash tchg
Existing hostname is q3
Enter new hostname: 
xxx
Your new hostname is xxx
q2 1157: cat myhosts
xxx
q2 1158: cat myhostname
xxx
q2 1159: cat tchg

#!/bin/bash
#Assign existing hostname to $hostn
hostn=$(cat myhostname)

#Display existing hostname
echo "Existing hostname is $hostn"

#Ask for new hostname $newhost
echo "Enter new hostname: "
read name

#change hostname in /etc/hosts & /etc/hostname
sed -i "s/$hostn/$name/g" ./myhosts
sed -i "s/$hostn/$name/g" ./myhostname

#display new hostname
echo "Your new hostname is $name"


----------
which works sensibly. AFAICT.

---

### Post by davea42 on 2014-04-18
foundtest.sh? test.sh?
Your test script is under which name? Where could those two .sh names have come from?

---

### Post by SWTP_Tech on 2014-04-18
test.sh is the name of the file- not foundest.sh is similar to output i've gotten using different variable names for read...sometimes it'll omit a character in the output. In this case it omits the first character from test.sh after : not found, not really logical output from what I know, but that's the only sense I can make of it.

---

### Post by davea42 on 2014-04-18
If your hostname or the input name has a / character your script
is not going to work...    Why either would have / I do not quite understand.

---

### Post by davea42 on 2014-04-18
You should consider actually checking the input for problematic characters...
Specially if you  are altering system files!!!

---

### Post by davea42 on 2014-04-18
Did you write your script in Windows (with notepad, for example)? Or type it in Linux?

---

### Post by davea42 on 2014-04-18
In the past dash had problems with variable names in certain contexts, but
you do not seem to be using those commands (export local readonly). 
My example works ok with dash  (Running Ubuntu 13.10) and bash and sh.

---

### Post by SWTP_Tech on 2014-04-18
I wrote it in windows using notepad++, viewing the script with gedit shows everything typed properly- I've tried moving the script around and all, but same issues. Glad to see I'm not the only confused person.

---

### Post by davea42 on 2014-04-18
Ok.  You are not the first to make the mistake.
Either use  dos2unix on Linux to convert the file from Windows line-ends to Posix/Linux or else
use the notepad option to write the lines with posix line ends.

The shells expect proper Posix line ends (a newline character) 
not the Windows (carriage-return newline) character pair.

Converting my script with unix2dos  I get similar errors to yours.
So just use dos2unix to fix the problem.

---

### Post by steeldriver on 2014-04-18
... or open your script in vi (or vim) and convert the line endings with

```

: set ff=unix

```
then re-save (**w**rite and **q**uit)
```

: wq

```

---

