---
title: "10.10 suspend/restart/shutdown/logout often freezes"
date: 2010-10-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by drmartens on 2010-10-21
Hi, I wonder if anybody has this issue.
Lenovo X200 notebook, 64bit maverick, external monitor connected through DisplayPort, fast SSD drive, encrypted home

I'm almost positive these issues were non existent after installing 10.10RC, but I'm not 100% sure. Maybe I will install it again to check it out.

Anyway, when I try to suspend/restart/shutdown/logout the system often freezes, showing the console with the similar output:

[IMG]http://forums.virtualbox.org/download/file.php?id=2554[/IMG]

I know this guy is running Ubuntu in VM, but I have very similar ouput, except the last usplash line.

But the first line I always have in the output is the infamous
> GLIb-WARNING **: getpwid_r(): failed due to unknown user id (0)

On a very rare occassion, the system hanged while booting (showing the above glib line as well. But that's quite rare, so I'm not that concerned.

Now, sometimes it does respond to ctrl+alt+delete after freezing, and after I hit this combination, another line appears (from memory):
> Init: rc main process killed by TERM signal
Checking for running unattended-upgrades

But that's it, I cannot do anything else, only hard reset, which is especially painful when I suspend in the middle of work...
There is no interesting information in the logs - a few messages in the kern.log, but nothing I think would show the culprit...

It's very annoying. What is the best way to debug such issues?

EDIT: other than that, the machine is very stable and I have no issues with it. It also worked perfectly on lucid 32bit.

---

### Post by ptosiani on 2010-10-29
Hey man, I think that this people, and I, have more or less the same problem, and apparently with no solution..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1606478](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1606478)

---

