---
title: "12.04 Wubi 64-bit loses root directory on restart"
date: 2012-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pgranger on 2012-10-14
*(I'm very sorry, I posted this a short time ago in a related thread. My question was moved to a different thread and closed, with no explanation. I don't understand why; this is a legitimate question, and it seemed be be relevant to the thread where I posted it. Did I do something wrong by asking this question? If so, could someone explain to me what I did wrong? If I did something wrong, I don't want to do it again. I'm trying to be a good citizen, and trying to get help with a major problem.)*

What I am experiencing is very similar to what is described at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1724209](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1724209), although that thread seems to be discussing 10.10 and 11.04. I've tried the solution described there, but didn't get anywhere with it. (Probably because I don't understand what it's trying to do.) I have read through this thread and others that seem related, but have not been able to make use of those solutions.

I am not an experienced Ubuntu sysadmin. A few years ago, I used to use Ubuntu 8.04 pretty regularly (32-bit on a dedicated desktop system), and never had a problem. Then didn't use Ubuntu at all for a while. Now I have acquired a brand-new laptop, and I have (repeatedly) set it up with Ubuntu 12.04, which fails with this error every few days. The error seems unrecoverable, and I have to completely reinstall everything from the ground up, which very time-consuming and frustrating.

**System info:**

Lenovo Edge E530, 64-bit Intel core i7. The E520 was listed as certified hardware on the Ubuntu site, I was hoping the E530 would be good also.

**OS:**

Came with Win7 Pro 64-bit installed.
I am using Wubi (Windows Ubuntu Installer) to make it into a dual-boot system with Ubuntu 12.04 64-bit.
I know there are other ways of accomplishing the dual-boot setup, but this seemed like the fastest and easiest, and I'm not enough of a guru to think I can accomplish it any but the simplest way.

**Result:**

Ubuntu seems to install correctly. I can use it successfully for a few days, configuring it and adding the tools I need, and it seems okay. Then after a while, it simply fails. A couple times it was after running a system update and restarting, a couple times it's been after doing nothing at all except doing a shutdown and restart. I always do a proper shutdown, I do not at any time just power it down without executing a proper shutdown.

On restart, I see:

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]Checking disk drives for errors. This may take several minutes.
Checking disk 1 of 1 (n% complete)
Press C to cancel all checks in progress[/FONT][/INDENT]

I let it proceed uninterrupted. After a short time (usually when it's reached about 6% or 7% complete) I get this error:

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]The disc drive for / is not ready yet or not present[/FONT][/INDENT]

or

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]The disc drive for /tmp is not ready yet or not present[/FONT][/INDENT]

Followed by:

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]Press F to attempt to fix the errors, I to ignore, S to skip mounting, or M for manual recovery[/FONT][/INDENT]

Pressing "F" does nothing, just switches the message to

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]Continue to wait, or Press S to skip mounting, or M for manual recovery[/FONT][/INDENT]

I don't know anything about how to do a manual recovery, but from earlier threads that seems to be what is needed, so I pressed M to get to a command-line screen, where I see the error:

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]Filesystem check or mount failed.
A maintenance shell will now be started.
CONTROL-D will terminate this shell and continue booting after re-trying
filesystems. Any further errors will be ignored.[/FONT][/INDENT]

(Sometimes the first line is replaced by "[FONT="Courier New"]Root filesystem check failed.[/FONT]")

Then a bunch of errors like this:

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"][  194.935443] loop: Write error at byte offset 29970400256, length 1024.
[  194.935457] Buffer I/O error on device loop0, logical block 30457792
[  194.935514] Buffer I/O error on device loop0, logical block 30457793[/FONT][/INDENT]

and a command prompt. (There can be anywhere from half a dozen, to many screens-full of that error message.) I try the command

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]mount -o remount, rw /[/FONT][/INDENT]

as described previously in another thread, but that doesn't seem to do anything. Just returns me to the command prompt without showing any output. Have also tried

[INDENT][FONT="Courier New"]mount -o remount, rw /tmp[/FONT][/INDENT]

since I sometimes get the error reported with the [FONT="Courier New"]/tmp[/FONT] directory. What, if anything, am I supposed to see when I execute this command? Is it silently succeeding, silently failing, or doing nothing?

Since I didn't have any other ideas of what to do, I just gave it a [FONT="Courier New"]CTRL-D[/FONT] to restart. And when I power up again, I'm in exactly the same state.

So, for now I will simply remove Wubi, and re-install everything again, and hope it'll be more than a couple days until the next time it fails on me. But I need to get this remedied, because I can't be rebuilding my system from the ground up every couple of days.

[LIST]
[*]Is 12.04 inherently unstable in this way? Seems like a lot of people are seeing this problem, so I'm pretty sure it's not just something I'm doing.
[/LIST]
[LIST]
[*]Is the problem with trying to dual-boot? (I don't have any choice in that. I can't take Windows off, and I need Ubuntu for class.)
[/LIST]
[LIST]
[*]Is the problem with using Wubi? (If so, I could try to find a different way to make my system dual-bootable.)
[/LIST]
[LIST]
[*]When I execute the "[FONT="Courier New"]mount -o remount, rw /[/FONT]" command, what am I supposed to see, if anything?
[/LIST]

This is getting to be extremely frustrating. I'm not doing anything unusual to the system. I haven't even had a crash. It's happening after normal-seeming shutdowns. I really like Ubuntu, and absolutely must have it installed for a class I'm taking. But having to tear down the whole system every few days and start over from scratch is getting ridiculous, especially since I am adding more tools and configuration to the system as I go, and have to repeat that every time as well.

Thanks for any assistance or explanations.

---

### Post by critin on 2012-10-14
> *(I'm very sorry, I posted this a short time ago in a related thread.  My question was moved to a different thread and closed, with no  explanation. I don't understand why; this is a legitimate question, and  it seemed be be relevant to the thread where I posted it. Did I do  something wrong by asking this question? If so, could someone explain to  me what I did wrong? If I did something wrong, I don't want to do it  again. I'm trying to be a good citizen, and trying to get help with a  major problem.)*

Hello, pgranger

I imagine your thread was moved because you posted a new question on an old forum.  If a forum has been inactive for a time, they are closed to avoid this sort of thing from happening.

You should always start your own thread because no issue is the same, and software changes too fast to use fixes from older problems.

Your other question is not closed, only moved to its own thread.  This one may be though, because now you have duplicates and both will have answers--confusing.  lol  Why don't you ask a Mod to close this one and then you can use the first only.

---

### Post by pgranger on 2012-10-14
Thanks for the explanation. Okay, I guess that makes sense; since some places prefer replying to old threads over starting new ones, it's hard to keep track of which rules are in effect in which place.

And I swear, when I looked before, the other one had been closed, but I do see it's reopened again.

Yes, I'd prefer to have only one open, obviously. Having two live threads on the same subject was never my intent.

---

### Post by critin on 2012-10-14
> Having two live threads on the same subject was never my intent.That was clear, and no problem, but you'll need to send a note to a Mod or Staff. Or mark this as solved, post an explanation and link to your other thread, or vice-versa, close the other thread if it has no replies and use this one.

In Thread Information at the top of the page, you'll find the Forum Code.  It explains the ins & outs.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy](http://ubuntuforums.org/index.php?page=policy)

Good luck in finding an answer to your questions.  I think it's going to take experts to answer these.  Don't worry, it'll keep them sharp.

---

