---
title: "9.04 boot freeze when using ext LCD"
date: 2009-06-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 83ssd on 2009-06-30
Been having fun trying to get proficient in 9.04, my first trek into the land of unbuntu. ):PMost recent hurdle has me confused.
  Background. I installed 9.04 on an old laptop on which the backlight on the LCD screen burned out. My goal was to use my home theatre LCD as its screen, hence not recycling it. The results are hopeful, but sporadic.
9.04 is the ONLY operating system on the laptop.
  The laptop being used is a Gateway 450SX4. 9.04 was installed from a mailed CD and has worked fine on occasion when I can get the external screen to operate.
  Here’s the prob: recently when attempting to boot, the laptop freezes after the Ubuntu graphic loads. The frozen screen has the cursor (which is active) in the upper left corner, and the middle of the screen has the circular graphic frozen. Occasionally it goes through to the desktop just fine, but that is rare (and frustrating.) 
  I did an experiment that may add insight. I can just barely see the images on the old 450 SX4 laptop with the burned out back light. If I do NOT have the laptop connected to the LCD ([FONT=&quot]Active Matrix LCD, 1920 x 1080[/FONT]), it moves to the password screen without a problem. However, if I plug in to the LCD at that point, I get a “No input detected” message.  When I plug in my current laptop (running XP) the LCD picks it up no problem.
  [FONT=&quot]After doing some reading on various forums, wondering if perhaps my freezing has something to do with the resolution difference on the laptop and the LCD. Any input appreciated![/FONT]

---

