---
title: "11.10 Can not shut down"
date: 2011-12-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-12-05
I can not shut down my PC without using the on-off switch at the rear of the machine.  The drop down "Shut Down" key does not work.

Any help please??????

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2011-12-05
Does it work if you open a terminal and type

sudo shutdown -h now

---

### Post by Diametric on 2011-12-05
or 

```
sudo init 6
```

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-12-06
Cheers guys.
I shall try these out over the next 2 weeks as the problem does not occur every time I try and shut down.  If I get a negative response during that time to either command I shall report back immediately.

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-12-10
Cheers guys
I have tried both these when the machine refused to shut down, and they both worked, though I found the computer on this morning when I tried the [HTML]sudo init 6[/HTML] command.

So what is wrong and how do I fix it?

---

### Post by JCM_Pico on 2011-12-10
Same here, 
I've an Ubuntu 11.10 machine that when I try to shut it down it gets hanged......
The only way to shut it down is to brute force it

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-12-10
[HTML][/HTML]There clearly is an issue with some machines/builds.

Suggest not brute force.  The commands I was given below work great, in not resorting to brute force.

I am awaiting feedback as to "what next" to fix it properly, but this does for now.

Update:
[HTML]sudo shutdown -h now[/HTML]  Actually shuts down the machine

[HTML]sudo init 6[/HTML] reboots the machine

I gather both should shut down.

---

