---
title: "12.04.2 won't boot after today's updates"
date: 2013-02-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sgage on 2013-02-24
Like the title says. It gets as far as the Ubuntu splash and just stays there. I am able to boot into recovery mode. 

Any ideas has to how I can recover?

[I thought I saw another posting on this earlier but I couldn't find it. I apologize if this is duplication.]

---

### Post by Pilot6 on 2013-02-24
Did you install a propritary video driver? If you did, then how did you install it?

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-02-24
> **Pilot6 said:**
> Did you install a propritary video driver? If you did, then how did you install it?

I had installed nvidia-current, the way I always have, with apt-get install nvidia-current. It worked fine. This morning I updated and all seemed to go well - there was new kernel stuff and it seemed like a new nvidia module was compiled.

After my failure to reboot, my first instinct was to boot to recovery mode and remove the nvidia module, as I have had to do many times in the past. Same problem upon rebooting.

I am able to get into recovery mode, so if you have any suggestions...

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2013-02-24
Try booting into the previous kernel.  Some users seem to have problems with the 3.2.0-38 version.

---

### Post by sirriffsalot on 2013-02-24
I have a laptop that behaves strangely and does not allow me to boot into Ubuntu unless I have "nomodeset" set in the grub.cfg file, replacing the line quiet splash $vt_handoff.

If you get desperate to just access your OS for some reason, do

```
 sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg 
```and find the line to the kernel version you are trying to boot into (or just change every single one if you are unsure) by looking for a  line that goes something like this:

linux    /boot/vmlinuz-3.2.0-38-lowlatency-pae root=UUID=6964840f-7235-4b02-833b-e437570eabef ro   quiet splash $vt_handoff

The line of the kernels will start with "linux    /boot/". And find where the "quiet splash $vt_handoff" is, and replace it with the text "nomodeset". If you can, an easy way to do it without mistake is to click "Replace" in gedit, and paste the "quiet splash $vt_handoff" line and type "nomodeset" in the "replace" field. This'll boot you in without it trying to do any nvidia stuff, which usually works out the best. Be careful not to mess around with anything else in that file, but if you should be unfortunate enough to do so, Ubuntu keeps a backup of the file automatically ;). All the above assumes that you have the "quiet splash $vt_handoff" in that file, if not, change whatever comes after "ro" just to be sure. If this approach does not help, then... 

Did you completely remove nvidia? I'd use the purge command in case you did not.

```
 sudo apt-get purge nvidia-settings 
``` 

Do that to nvidia-173 and all the other nvidia-related things you have and reboot, fingers crossed!

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-02-24
> **LeoTB said:**
> I have a laptop that behaves strangely and does not allow me to boot into Ubuntu unless I have "nomodeset" set in the grub.cfg file, replacing the line quiet splash $vt_handoff.

If you get desperate to just access your OS for some reason, do

```
 sudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg 
```and find the line to the kernel version you are trying to boot into (or just change every single one if you are unsure) by looking for a  line that goes something like this:

linux    /boot/vmlinuz-3.2.0-38-lowlatency-pae root=UUID=6964840f-7235-4b02-833b-e437570eabef ro   quiet splash $vt_handoff

The line of the kernels will start with "linux    /boot/". And find where the "quiet splash $vt_handoff" is, and replace it with the text "nomodeset". If you can, an easy way to do it without mistake is to click "Replace" in gedit, and paste the "quiet splash $vt_handoff" line and type "nomodeset" in the "replace" field. This'll boot you in without it trying to do any nvidia stuff, which usually works out the best. Be careful not to mess around with anything else in that file, but if you should be unfortunate enough to do so, Ubuntu keeps a backup of the file automatically ;). All the above assumes that you have the "quiet splash $vt_handoff" in that file, if not, change whatever comes after "ro" just to be sure. If this approach does not help, then... 

Did you completely remove nvidia? I'd use the purge command in case you did not.

```
 sudo apt-get purge nvidia-settings 
``` 

Do that to nvidia-173 and all the other nvidia-related things you have and reboot, fingers crossed!

Well, after years of being an nvidia-wrangler, I tried everything I could think of plus suggestions. No joy. 

So I reinstalled - not a big deal, I have excellent backups and reinstall all the time testing different things, so I have it down to a science. 

Thanks for the suggestions, though - they'll go in the file :KS

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-02-24
> **ajgreeny said:**
> Try booting into the previous kernel.  Some users seem to have problems with the 3.2.0-38 version.

Precise installed a 3.5.0 kernel on my system, which was updated today.

I thought of trying the previous kernel, but still no joy. Something got seriously confused...

---

### Post by Gyokuro on 2013-02-24
Hi

It is a known bug: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1132092](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1132092) and looking at this bug report it seems that the NVidia kernel interface got not rebuilt.

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-02-25
Hi!,** sgage**,

The latest update to 12.04.2, raising 3.5.0-24 to 3.5.0-25-#38 has a serious bug.

Rebooting after the update, went to a very low-res GUI, with a frozen mouse cursor and 'Ctrl+Alt+F1-6' not giving a tty login, only freezing the GUI.

Booting to recovery was no help; always previously, I have been able to use the tty to reinstall the nvidia driver, but this time the Login & password process was corrupted, carrying the first letter of the last line entry on to the next line.

Eventually I was able to get the nvidia driver to reinstall and now things are back to normal. But do not ask what I did differently  that succeeded the umpteenth time I tried.

One way or another you need to reinstall the nvidia driver, after you do the update; make sure you have downloaded the nvidia .run file, before updating.

Chao!, **bogan.**

---

