---
title: "11.10 Temperatures Too High?"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MutantJohn on 2011-10-22
Hello All,

So I immediately noticed because I am always (and I mean ALWAYS, my gf is never interested to hear them either lol) looking at my CPU and GPU temps but after I upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10 I noticed some large differences in idling temps.

In 11.04 my CPU was usually ~35C and now I'm at like ~40C. That's not such a big deal though 'cause I mean, eh. Although when I'm using my desktop now and even typing, my proc's temp will jump to like ~45C.

My GPU though is the biggest change though. MY GPU (an nVidia GeForce GTX 460) has gone up the most. It used to idle below my processor but now it shoots up to 40-48 C easily (whereas it was like in the mid to mid-high 30's with 11.04).

The thing is though, I play a lot of Heroes of Newerth and my peak temps during play haven't changed at all so my cooling is fine and processes are running normally but my idling temps are just so high.

My proc is an AMD Phenom II X4 955 Black Edition. Is it the Black Edition that's making my CPU so hot as well? Because I've heard that it's the newest linux kernel that's 'causing all the problems.

Do any of you guys know?

---

### Post by MutantJohn on 2011-10-28
Okay, well if no one's gonna post then fine : P

But something odd did happen today that I feel should be mentioned. Whilst idling, my processor somehow ran up to it's max temperature (64 Celsius) and wouldn't come down. So I cleaned my computer, tightened to motherboard to my case and when I booted up everything went back to normal. But now I'm scared to ever leave my computer alone lol. 

I think there's something afoot here.

---

### Post by oldtimer7777 on 2011-10-29
I have a noisey processor fan on my system, and I noticed the fan was spinning slower on 11.10..  I think there was an issue with CPU fans on previous versions of Ubuntu where it wouldn't self-adjust. Maybe in 11.10 it has been modified to work now. You can adjust your fan speed in BIOS instead if you want a cooler CPU.

> **MutantJohn said:**
> Okay, well if no one's gonna post then fine : P

But something odd did happen today that I feel should be mentioned. Whilst idling, my processor somehow ran up to it's max temperature (64 Celsius) and wouldn't come down. So I cleaned my computer, tightened to motherboard to my case and when I booted up everything went back to normal. But now I'm scared to ever leave my computer alone lol. 

I think there's something afoot here.

---

### Post by MutantJohn on 2011-10-29
Okay, thank you so much. I guess what happened to me then when my computer went up to its max safe temperature was just a weird glitch which I assume happens from time to time. 

I'm actually pretty okay with my computer idling hotter than it used to now because I've also noticed that my computer is quieter with 11.10 and I use the stock fan which is loud as hell. As long as I know it's intentional now I can rest easily.

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2011-10-29
> **MutantJohn said:**
> Okay, well if no one's gonna post then fine : P
 
But something odd did happen today that I feel should be mentioned. Whilst idling, my processor somehow ran up to** it's max temperature (64 Celsius)** and wouldn't come down. So I cleaned my computer, tightened to motherboard to my case and when I booted up everything went back to normal. But now I'm scared to ever leave my computer alone lol. 
 
I think there's something afoot here.
AMD sucks for this exact reason. The maximum temperature for intel processors is usually 100 C or 105 C.

---

### Post by MutantJohn on 2011-10-29
That's very true. Although I put my PC together to be of gaming quality. Not amazing but enough so that I can if not max a modern game play without any hiccups on medium. I'm more or less thinking of comparing Amenesia which I can max to Battlefield 2 which I default to medium on, I think. Been awhile since I used Windows 7.

But yeah, AMD is pretty cheap and I was looking to save money so I went with that. In the future though I'm just going to go with the cheapest best processor, be it AMD or an i7.

---

### Post by Gremlinzzz on 2011-10-29
Had temp problem with the kernel 11.10 was using,loud fan and heat was rising.so i installed 10.04 no problems.everything works silent fan and heat back to normal.:popcorn:

---

