---
title: "10.0.4 - iptables script loaded / not active"
date: 2010-11-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by serialubu on 2010-11-26
hi,


when i run my iptables script using fw builder (=installed on my router/server)  everything works fine...until i reboot  (nomather "test run" is active or not)

to counter this problem i'm using the 'iptables-restore' in the "interfaces" file.
upon reboot  a "iptables -L" confirms me the correct rules are loaded.

however... 
tests (eg ping test from an ethx interface) to the outside indicate the script does not seem to be working. upon installing the script with fwbuilder this works again fine....

i see no difference in the route table nor do i seen anything suspicious in the syslog.
restarting the "network" does not solve anything either

i have seen posts about an you need to activate it by using "/etc/init.d/iptables save active" but theres no iptables in that location. only /sbin contains that program. 


all suggestions are appreciated.

ps: i have been spending hours finding out solutions for other problems but this one seems to get the best out of me
ps2: been upgrading to "0 day" old 2.6.36.1 natty kernel recently but even with the regular 10.0.4 kernel this problem is still there
     still stuck to the regular iptables v1.4.4 tho.

edit : i can not be the only one using iptables/10.04(desktop) ?

---

### Post by serialubu on 2010-11-27
as said , 
all suggestions are apppreciated
i can not believe to be the only one using 10.04(1) with iptables .. :(

---

### Post by serialubu on 2010-11-28
found the solution...

ipv4 forward was not active in the sysctl.conf file. 
once i made that change everyting works well at reboot.

it seems that fw builder is loading up some modules that stay active  even when you exit.
those were in some way circumventing that parameter and very likely the source of my confusion.

---

