---
title: "10.04 clean install causes grub Unknown FileSystem."
date: 2010-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by valindil89 on 2010-05-07
So I upgraded from 9.10 to 10.04 and during the upgrade it asked to install a new version of grub or keep the current one. Thinking that I should just upgrade the grub just to make sure that I had the latest version I decided to do it. So I told it the partitions to use the ubuntu, ubuntu swap, vista, and vista recovery.. Finished the upgrade and restarted. 

I tried to boot into both the vista, and vista recovery but I noticed something weird. Grub switched the names, the actual vista install is called recovery, and when you tried to load it, a blinking cursor would appear for a split second and then loop back to grub. If you tried to select the vista recovery now called vista it would just sit at the blinking cursor for infinity. But booting into ubuntu worked.

So I decided to wipe ubuntu and do a fresh install of 10.04. Went through and set up the swap and ext4 partitions at the end of the hard drive(because I would like to expand the windows directory should I ever be able to boot into it). Now when I start up and select vista recovery now called vista it sits at the blinking cursor just as before... BUT when I select the original vista install , it says:

Unknown FileSystem
GRUB rescue>

...

Ideas?

PS.....

Both ubuntu and vista are 64bit if that makes a difference.

---

### Post by valindil89 on 2010-05-07
bump

---

### Post by valindil89 on 2010-05-08
anyone know how to fix this?

---

### Post by valindil89 on 2010-05-10
Still having problems with this, and unable to fix.

---

