---
title: "18.04 caffeine not working"
date: 2018-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by stoogiebuncho on 2018-07-16
Just installed Xubuntu 18.04, and caffeine doesn't seem to be able to prevent the screensaver from coming on when I watch full-screen videos or play full-screen games.  I'm using xscreensaver, by the way.

When I run caffeine in the terminal, I get this error message when it tries to inhibit the screensaver:
```
org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name org.gnome.SessionManager was not provided by any .service files

```

I also installed Lubuntu 18.04 on a different machine, and caffeine is working fine there.

Anyone else having issues with caffeine on Xubuntu?  Are there other alternatives for automatic screen inhibitors?

---

### Post by kazakore on 2018-07-17
For xscreensaver to not activate with videos etc (at least with VLC and others I use) you also need to install the xssproxy package.

```
sudo apt-get install xssproxy
```

> xssproxy implements the org.freedesktop.ScreenSaver D-Bus interface described
in the Idle Inhibition Service Draft by the freedesktop.org developers. The
inhibition of the screensaver is then controlled using the XScreenSaverSuspend
function from the Xss (X11 Screen Saver extension) library.

This package is useful when using a lightweight window manager with the X
built-in screensaver. For example Firefox uses the org.freedesktop.ScreenSave
D-Bus interface to disable the screensaver when playing videos. This package
implements that interface and disables the X built-in screensaver in that
case. A possible use case is to install this package with the xmonad window
manager and the display locker tools xssstate and slock included in the
suckless-tools package. All the major full-featured desktop environments like
GNOME come with a built-in implementation of the beforementioned D-Bus
interface and thus make no sense to be used with this package.

I don't know why this isn't done as standard!

---

### Post by Doru80 on 2018-10-25
You can update your system with unsupported packages from           this untrusted PPA by adding **ppa:caffeine-developers/ppa**           to your system's Software Sources.[URL="https://launchpad.net/+help-soyuz/ppa-sources-list.html"]
[/URL]
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:caffeine-developers/ppa
sudo apt-get update

Or try this link
[https://launchpad.net/~caffeine-developers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~caffeine-developers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa)

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2018-10-25
> **Doru80 said:**
> You can update your system with unsupported packages from           this untrusted PPA by adding **ppa:caffeine-developers/ppa**           to your system's Software Sources.[URL="https://launchpad.net/+help-soyuz/ppa-sources-list.html"]
[/URL]
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:caffeine-developers/ppa
sudo apt-get update

Or try this link
[https://launchpad.net/~caffeine-developers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~caffeine-developers/+archive/ubuntu/ppa)

That PPA hasn't been updated in a very long time. Don't use unless you're running Xenial or Trusty.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-10-25
> **oldos2er said:**
> That PPA hasn't been updated in a very long time. Don't use unless you're running Xenial or Trusty.
+1 or just don't use it. ;)
I'll quote the Dev/Maintainer
> 
To run caffeine (it is designed to be run in the background, not in a terminal,)
Mine shows:
```
 caffeine
/usr/bin/caffeine:99: PyGIDeprecationWarning: Since version 3.11, calling threads_init is no longer needed. See: https://wiki.gnome.org/PyGObject/Threading
  GObject.threads_init()
/usr/bin/caffeine:47: PyGIDeprecationWarning: GObject.timeout_add is deprecated; use GLib.timeout_add instead
  GObject.timeout_add(30000, self._check_for_fullscreen)

```
But when I use:
```
caffeine-indicator
/usr/bin/caffeine-indicator:184: PyGIDeprecationWarning: Since version 3.11, calling threads_init is no longer needed. See: https://wiki.gnome.org/PyGObject/Threading
  GObject.threads_init()
/usr/bin/caffeine-indicator:106: DeprecationWarning: AppIndicator3.Indicator.set_icon is deprecated
  self.AppInd.set_icon(icon_name)

```
All is good and i can then activate caffeine.
 
There was a bug filed but marked invalid, so maybe you can add a better bug report. Found here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/caffeine/+bug/1768658](https://bugs.launchpad.net/caffeine/+bug/1768658) and here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/caffeine/+bug/1768801](https://bugs.launchpad.net/caffeine/+bug/1768801)
Try kazakore's suggestion "xssproxy"

---

### Post by Holger_Gehrke on 2018-10-25
XFCE4 has a presentation mode in which it disables Lightlocker (through dbus, i think) and regularly produces synthetic input events that stop xscreensaver. You enable presentation mode by right clicking on the power manager icon in the system tray and selecting it from the menu. If you don't have a power manager icon in the system tray, you can enable the icon in the settings for the power manager. So neither caffeine nor xssproxy necessary.

Holger

---

### Post by CFWhitman on 2018-12-19
> **Holger_Gehrke said:**
> XFCE4 has a presentation mode in which it disables Lightlocker (through dbus, i think) and regularly produces synthetic input events that stop xscreensaver. You enable presentation mode by right clicking on the power manager icon in the system tray and selecting it from the menu. If you don't have a power manager icon in the system tray, you can enable the icon in the settings for the power manager. So neither caffeine nor xssproxy necessary.

Holger

There are various ways to disable the screensaver manually. The point of caffeine and/or xssproxy is for it to happen automatically.

---

