---
title: "Cs4"
date: 2009-08-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Fsmv on 2009-08-04
Is there any way to install Adobe CS4 programs in Ubuntu because that's the only thing keeping Windows on my computer.

---

### Post by Redundant Username on 2009-08-05
I don't think so, you should check WineHq to see if it will run under wine. I'd just use Gimp instead.

---

### Post by philcamlin on 2009-08-05
> **Redundant Username said:**
> I don't think so, you should check WineHq to see if it will run under wine. I'd just use Gimp instead.

Wine supports up to CS3

---

### Post by king EZi on 2009-08-05
well, you can run virtualbox in linux and install windows and whenever you wanna use CS4 just go to the virtualbox, no need of a reboot.

---

### Post by Fsmv on 2009-08-05
I can live with CS3. Also I hate Gimp and I mostly need Flash.

---

### Post by Fsmv on 2009-08-05
> **king EZi said:**
> well, you can run virtualbox in linux and install windows and whenever you wanna use CS4 just go to the virtualbox, no need of a reboot.

Would I need an installation CD for that, because my computer came with vista pre installed?

---

### Post by king EZi on 2009-08-05
> **Fsmv said:**
> Would I need an installation CD for that, because my computer came with vista pre installed?

Download an XP iso you can mount that and install. In my opinion, it works better than running something under wine. 

Can't really give you a link to download the .iso ;), but im sure there's a lot around. You can also install vista but ummm...i prefer xp. :D

---

### Post by Fsmv on 2009-08-05
I think I'm gonna use virtualbox and XP because my dad can get a XP from work.

---

