---
title: "problem with windows partition and UBUNTU 6.10"
date: 2007-04-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dfczone on 2007-04-14
Hello every body...

excuse me, i don't speak very well english.


I've a problem, i've installed UBUNTU 6.10, and i've 2 partitions (NTFS) for windows and one for my very important documents, the 2 partitions are allready showed in /media, but she haven't content.  The partitions don't make Automount and them don't showed in the desktop. hier is my fstab content:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=09685010-b567-46ca-b342-b03344fd02d0 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda7 :
UUID=92d1f28d-f2b0-4c1b-8469-b10475a0ef60 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hdd /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/ /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/hda1 /media/hda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=de_CH.utf8 0 1
/dev/hda5 /media/hda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=de_CH.utf8 0 1


Can your help me?  Thanks so mutch. :confused: :confused:  

Bye

PS: I'm a LinuX n00b

---

### Post by kidders on 2007-04-15
Hi there,

Could you post the output of **mount**, just to confirm that your filesystems aren't mounting correctly. If they aren't, I would suggest the following:[LIST=1]
[*]Add the "noauto" option to your NTFS filesystem references in /etc/fstab, to prevent Ubuntu from trying to mount them at boot.
[*]Reboot your system.
[*]Take a look at the output of **dmesg**.
[*]Try **sudo mount /dev/hda1**.
[*]Take another look at **dmesg**, and post any new information that appears at the end of it.[/LIST]Assuming your NTFS filesystems will still fail to mount correctly, any error messages that appear in dmesg, /var/log/syslog, etc. will help diagnose the problem.

> **dfczone said:**
> i've 2 partitions (NTFS) for windows and one for my very important documents

One important thing worth mentioning is that _using ntfs-3g with important data is **not** a good idea_. You should probably consider other options.

**Edit:** Please post back if I've written anything you don't understand. I don't speak German very well (I'm assuming that's your native language), but I'm sure we can still find a way to understand eachother!

---

