---
title: "9.04 - Rebooting requires PW?"
date: 2009-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-05-05
When I reboot my machine at home, it prompts me for a password. Why?

When I installed 9.04 and it asked me to hit the additional "okay" button, I thought that was great cause sometimes I would go to reboot and I'd click shut down on accident. But now out of no where I started getting prompted to put a password in to simply reboot or shut down? Why is this?

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2009-05-05
Sounds like to me that you may have found a bug in the O/S OR since I don't get that behavior (I am not prompted for any password when I shutdown my computer), that you have a bad installation of Ubuntu 9.04.

Did you check the integrity of the Ubuntu CD by running the verification function that is found on the initial Ubuntu boot screen menu BEFORE you installed Ubuntu ?

---

### Post by basenvironment on 2009-05-05
That is strange, sounds like something you might have accidently configured. Have you changed any settings lately?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-05-05
No, I didn't change anything system-wide, at least. I didn't test the CD, but I always burn at the slowest speed possible. Keep in mind it was working fine, but now it prompts me for the password.

The one thing I'm curious about is when I was rebooting, it was when I was in the middle of running a bunch of terminal commands to set up folder shares for samba and whatnot, so I was using sudo a lot.

Would that have caused this? I'll take a better look at it when I get home.

---

### Post by wpshooter on 2009-05-05
Integrity of the CD should ALWAYS be checked regardless of what speed it is burned at !!!

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-05-10
Still got the same ole problem... Getting annoying as hell...

EDIT - And just like that, I found the problem. I rebooted my PC and came back in Ubuntu. Right then I had to reboot again and it didn't prompt me for a password. I was like... wait... so I realized something. The XP computers in the house @ 3 am synchronize their documents to their specified samba shares on my computer.

I booted up to Ubuntu. Went to reboot. It asked me cancel/okay within 60 seconds. Okay fine. On my spare XP computer here I logged into samba as a user. Back on my Ubuntu desktop I went to hit reboot and it said other users are logged in, you must authenticate to restart this computer.

So that's it. Since I rarely reboot my computer but once every 3-4 days that's why, cause the XP computers synchronize to this @ 3 am. Bingo.

ONLY PROBLEM IS - Out of curiosity, I checked the "remember password" thing for when I went to reboot. How can I revert this saved password so I DO have to put it in each time? I was hoping that if I put the password in, instead of prompting me for a password, it would prompt me with cancel/okay for 60 seconds. But it doesn't do that. It just flat out reboots since the PW is saved. How can I flip that setting around?

---

### Post by cdude on 2009-05-10
> **Roasted said:**
> When I reboot my machine at home, it prompts me for a password. Why?

When I installed 9.04 and it asked me to hit the additional "okay" button, I thought that was great cause sometimes I would go to reboot and I'd click shut down on accident. But now out of no where I started getting prompted to put a password in to simply reboot or shut down? Why is this?

I get the same behaviour, but it happens randomly. Lately, though, rebooting doesn't require a password confirmation. I'll try to see what the cause is when the problem reoccurs.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2009-05-10
System -> Administration -> Authorizations

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-05-10
Well, this is kind of a bummer.

If a Samba user is logged in - When I hit reboot, it just magically reboots since I saved the admin password.

If a Samba user is not logged in - I get the 60 second warning for cancel/okay before rebooting.

Isn't there a way to require the 60 second warning but NOT require the admin password to reboot, regardless of whether or not Samba users are logged in or not?

---

### Post by Roasted on 2009-05-10
Bingo. Got it.

As Temujin suggested, System - Administration - Authorizations.

I scrolled down to "system" where I see:

Stop the system when multiple users are logged in.
Stop the system.
Restart the system when multiple users are logged in.
Restart the system.

For both options where "...when multiple users are logged in" I set the settings to:

Anyone - No
Console - No 
Active Console - Yes

Active Console was the only setting I changed, by simply moving it to "Yes"

Thanks guys!

---

