---
title: "13.10 fresh install is broken"
date: 2014-02-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by charlie_b on 2014-02-05
I have been using Ubuntu 12.04 for the last couple of years with no problems, other versions before that. I just did a fresh install of 13.10, not an upgrade, on a separate partition.  It is consistently  crashing after a few minutes of use. Mainly when I am trying to use system menus, most particularly under System Settings. I click either on this button or one of the submenus, and then the screen, mouse and keyboard all freeze, then the monitor goes haywire. There is nothing I can do to unfreeze it or fix it.  I have not had a problem like this with any previous version of Ubuntu. Any ideas?

---

### Post by QIII on 2014-02-05
Hello!

I have to ask the standard first question just to get it out of the way, of course -- did you check the md5sum?

Best wishes!

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-05
Second question would be, do you use any closed source drivers?

Or would closed source drivers work better, maybe?

---

### Post by charlie_b on 2014-02-06
Thanks for the replies. No, I didn't check the md5sum. The ISO is not a download, it is  from the DVD accompanying the latest Linux User & Developer magazine. I've never had any difficulty with them before, so I assumed everything would be fine. Second - no, I didn't download the closed source drivers during the install. If you think it might help I'll try downloading them.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-06
Before even considering whether to see if the closed-source drivers would help, have you run a system update yet?

My personal feeling is that if you've never needed the closed-source driver then you shouldn't need them now.
But, of course, there is the off chance that the open-source drivers for the card have digressed and the closed source are better.
Unlikely though.
And if the gpu is intel then closed-source drivers are off the table anyway, intel doesn't have closed-source drivers.

What do you know about your system?

---

### Post by charlie_b on 2014-02-06
Yes I ran a system update straight after installation, made no difference. And no, I've never needed the closed source drivers before.  I have just attempted two things - installation of additional drivers via the package manager - made it worse, screen went straight to black after login. So I tried a complete reinstall, with the restricted extras this time. Made no difference. So, unless anybody has any other suggestions, I'm going to write this attempt off as a failure, assuming the DVD is stuffed.  I'll try downloading an ISO from the reputable source. Thanks for your replies everyone.

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-06
Well at least you did the smart thing and tried it out on a testing partition.

If you have the nerve you could try testing out the next LTS 14.04, still in development
If you want you could download the daily build from here
[http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/)

Only a simple thought, no need to go and do it if you don't want to.
Downloading 13.10 to try out might be good enough.

Good Luck in any case.

---

