---
title: "9.10 not allowing telnet after a while."
date: 2010-01-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kusumoto on 2010-01-12
I have a machine running Karmic and dovecot/postfix as a mail server.
Everything is working fine with the mail system, except one thing. After sitting for a while I am unable to get to the server via telnet/pop3/smtp. 
Immediately after I ssh into the server to check it, these services start working.
Any ideas?

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-01-12
> **kusumoto said:**
> After sitting for a while

How long? I suspect that there might be a time out issue. There should be GUI based preferences where you can alter its settings as sys admin.

Have you ever tried [Webmin]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Webmin")?

---

### Post by kusumoto on 2010-01-13
I'm not sure of the exact time it takes. It seems that every night it is doing this.

I can ping it when it is like that, but not telnet/POP.
Then as soon as I ssh into it, those services just work.

I have never tried webmin.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-01-13
> **kusumoto said:**
> I have never tried webmin.

In my opinion, you should. It's a good program with a lot of things to check out in there.

---

### Post by kusumoto on 2010-01-14
well. I guess i will look up webmin then.

---

### Post by kusumoto on 2010-01-14
ok. i got it installed. it looks pretty nice.
any idea where i should start looking for this issue?
i'm checking around, but any informed advice would be good too.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-01-14
I would advice you to use ssh instead of telnet. Offers better security to my knowledge. Maybe it works better?

[This]("http://www.webmin.com/standard.html") is the standard modules for Webmin, telnet was not included in the list.

---

### Post by kusumoto on 2010-01-14
Well I use ssh to actually access the server. I was just using telnet to test the mailserver. Just telnet server 110 or 25 was what that was.
I put a couple of the services on unlimited for some kind of timeout feature. Dovecot and postfix. I can't seem to find where I did that now though.
I also set some automatic emails/scheduled backups. I figured that might prevent it from doing this to, and be pretty useful.

---

### Post by kusumoto on 2010-01-25
Well it's still doing it.
As long as I have an ssh session with the server the telnet/pop3 works. Last night the machine that had a telnet session to it restarted and this morning I had no mail/telnet until I opened a new ssh session.
It just seems like something that should be easily cured, but I don't see anything that should make this happen. As I said before, I can still ping it when this happens and as soon as I open a new ssh session to the server it goes back to normal.

---

### Post by khelben1979 on 2010-01-25
Let's hope someone else can help you in this then. Hope you enjoyed Webmin, it's pretty powerful.

---

### Post by kusumoto on 2010-01-27
Is there some other place in the forums where I should post this perhaps?

---

