---
title: "grub2 error: command 'gfxmode' not found"
date: 2012-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by murthy on 2012-05-03
I have installed Xubuntu 12.04 64 bit with windows 7 recently.  After using Grub customiser to add a background picture to the menu and other tweaks, after selecting xubuntu in the grub menu "Grub error: command gfxmode not found, Press any key to continue" is displayed.  Xubuntu loads after pressing a key.  I am using Ubuntu/Xubuntu since many years without any such problem.  Browsing the forum/web has not yielded any solution.  Kindly help.
AMD Phenom XT1090T, NVidia GT 520, 8GB.

---

### Post by Zvlwab on 2012-05-03
Before trying anything else you should try if updating your GRUB helps
```
sudo update-grub
```
Also posting your /boot/grub/grub.cfg might help.
Have you modified any files in /etc/grub.d/ ?

---

### Post by murthy on 2012-05-03
Yes, I have tried it without solving the problem.  (I have only used grub customiser)  My grub.cfg is pasted below please:

#
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi

function savedefault {
  if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then
    saved_entry="${chosen}"
    save_env saved_entry
  fi
}

function recordfail {
  set recordfail=1
  if [ -n "${have_grubenv}" ]; then if [ -z "${boot_once}" ]; then save_env recordfail; fi; fi
}

function load_video {
  insmod vbe
  insmod vga
  insmod video_bochs
  insmod video_cirrus
}

insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,msdos8)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f15229a0-6645-4c14-b90f-dc17afdf3947
if loadfont /usr/share/grub/unicode.pf2 ; then
  gfxmode=800x600x8
  load_video
  insmod gfxterm
  insmod part_msdos
  insmod ext2
  set root='(hd0,msdos8)'
  search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f15229a0-6645-4c14-b90f-dc17afdf3947
  set locale_dir=($root)/boot/grub/locale
  set lang=en_US
  insmod gettext
fi
terminal_output gfxterm
if [ "${recordfail}" = 1 ]; then
  set timeout=-1
else
  set timeout=5
fi
play 480 440 1
### END /etc/grub.d/00_header ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###
insmod part_msdos
insmod ext2
set root='(hd0,msdos8)'
search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f15229a0-6645-4c14-b90f-dc17afdf3947
insmod jpeg
if background_image /home/sri/Pictures/RedFlower800x600.jpg; then
  set color_normal=white/black
  set color_highlight=green/black
else
  set menu_color_normal=white/black
  set menu_color_highlight=black/light-gray
fi
### END /etc/grub.d/05_debian_theme ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux_proxy ###
menuentry "Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-24-generic" --class ubuntu --class gnu-linux --class gnu --class os {
	recordfail
	gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
	insmod gzio
	insmod part_msdos
	insmod ext2
	set root='(hd0,msdos8)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root f15229a0-6645-4c14-b90f-dc17afdf3947
	linux	/boot/vmlinuz-3.2.0-24-generic root=UUID=f15229a0-6645-4c14-b90f-dc17afdf3947 ro   quiet splash $vt_handoff
	initrd	/boot/initrd.img-3.2.0-24-generic
}
### END /etc/grub.d/10_linux_proxy ###

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober_proxy ###
menuentry "Windows 7 (loader) (on /dev/sda1)" --class windows --class os {
	insmod part_msdos
	insmod ntfs
	set root='(hd0,msdos1)'
	search --no-floppy --fs-uuid --set=root 925A4E745A4E555F
	chainloader +1
}
### END /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober_proxy ###

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2012-05-03
Check out the How to in my signature. Step 1 has gfxmode and if you like you can simplify your grub2 menu with it.
There are several examples of what the screen will look like. My current screen is on post #105.

I have these three menu items that display:

Ubuntu Lucid Lynx
Ubuntu Lucid Lynx (Recovery)
Windows 7

I think the problem is **gfxmode=800x600x8**

That says 800x600 with a color bit depth of 8 bit. Mine is set to 32.
Check the How to.

---

### Post by Cavsfan on 2012-05-03
Something I might mention is that I have had to take jpgs into Gimp and then select Image (at the top) and then select Scale Image.
Then I selected at the bottom Quality Interpolation: linear.
Then click save and click on the + to show Advanced Options.
I make sure quality is 100% at the top and change Subsampling to best quality and then click Save.

Sometimes, prior to doing this, the picture would not show on the grub screen. It would just display black and white.

---

### Post by Zvlwab on 2012-05-03
It looks like you are missing this part:
```
function gfxmode {
	set gfxpayload="$1"
	if [ "$1" = "keep" ]; then
		set vt_handoff=vt.handoff=7
	else
		set vt_handoff=
	fi
}
if [ ${recordfail} != 1 ]; then
  if [ -e ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt ]; then
    if hwmatch ${prefix}/gfxblacklist.txt 3; then
      if [ ${match} = 0 ]; then
        set linux_gfx_mode=keep
      else
        set linux_gfx_mode=text
      fi
    else
      set linux_gfx_mode=text
    fi
  else
    set linux_gfx_mode=keep
  fi
else
  set linux_gfx_mode=text
fi
export linux_gfx_mode
if [ "$linux_gfx_mode" != "text" ]; then load_video; fi

```
which should be just below the line
```
### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/10_linux_proxy ###
```

This results into setting gfxmode to a NULL value on the line
```
gfxmode $linux_gfx_mode
```

I think you can fix it by replacing the following line in /etc/grub.d/10_linux_proxy
```
        gfxmode \$linux_gfx_mode
```
with
```
        gfxmode keep
```
or
```
        gfxmode text
```
depending on what you prefer.

Then run
```
sudo update-grub
```

Altough I think it would be better to restore all files in /etc/grub.d/ to their original state.

---

### Post by murthy on 2012-05-04
Thanks for the immediate reply.  However, my /etc/grub.d/10_linux_proxy does not contain any entry as mentioned.  The files have been changed by Grub Customiser and there are no backups.  Please inform how I can restore all files in /etc/grub.d/ to their original state.

---

### Post by Zvlwab on 2012-05-04
I attached my files to this post.
I don't know why you have a file named 10_linux_proxy instead of 10_linux, but usually it's called 10_linux.
Before running
```
sudo update-grub
```
you need to make sure that you have copied 10_linux to /etc/grub.d/ and made it executable.

---

### Post by murthy on 2012-06-18
The problem has been solved.  I had uncheked the option '(script code)' in the 'linux (custom)' section.  After checking it, the problem did not reappear.  Details at:
[http://www.ubuntugeek.com/grub-customizer-graphical-interface-to-configure-the-grub2burg-settings.html/comment-page-1#comment-125825](http://www.ubuntugeek.com/grub-customizer-graphical-interface-to-configure-the-grub2burg-settings.html/comment-page-1#comment-125825)

---

