---
title: "HARD DISK ERROR while booting"
date: 2011-12-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by marcellux on 2011-12-27
Hi,

I just bought a Notebook HP Pavilion dv6 with Windows 7 on it. First thing I did was to format the entire HDD, I created 3 partition; 1 for Windows, 1 for Kubuntu 11.10 and 1 for data.

After a while I started to get "HARD DISK ERROR" messages on startup. The message was obviously generated by BIOS. So, I thought it has nothing to do with the OS. I took it back to the shop where I bought it and they send it to HP for replacing the HDD. 

After 2 weeks I picked it up and they just replaced the RAM memories, updated the BIOS and re-installed Windows 7. But they did not change the HDD. They said there´s nothing wrong with the HDD. 

I Installed Kubuntu 11.10, single boot, and I am still getting the "HARD DISK ERROR" from the BIOS before Kubuntu even starts loading. This happens 4 times out of 10.

Could it be possible that Kubuntu causes the porblem? Does anybody else have that problem? I would take it back to the shop, they would re-install Windows 7 and wunna replace the HDD again... 

So, what to do?

Thanks a lot in advance

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2011-12-27
> **marcellux said:**
> Hi,

I just bought a Notebook HP Pavilion dv6 with Windows 7 on it. First thing I did was to format the entire HDD, I created 3 partition; 1 for Windows, 1 for Kubuntu 11.10 and 1 for data.

After a while I started to get "HARD DISK ERROR" messages on startup. The message was obviously generated by BIOS. So, I thought it has nothing to do with the OS. I took it back to the shop where I bought it and they send it to HP for replacing the HDD. 

After 2 weeks I picked it up and they just replaced the RAM memories, updated the BIOS and re-installed Windows 7. But they did not change the HDD. They said there´s nothing wrong with the HDD. 

I Installed Kubuntu 11.10, single boot, and I am still getting the "HARD DISK ERROR" from the BIOS before Kubuntu even starts loading. This happens 4 times out of 10.

Could it be possible that Kubuntu causes the porblem? Does anybody else have that problem? I would take it back to the shop, they would re-install Windows 7 and wunna replace the HDD again... 

So, what to do?

Thanks a lot in advance

Was the error happening after they restored to factory with Windows? You aren't fully clear on that. First thing I would do is find who made the hard drive and run their diagnostic tool (WD Diagnostics, Seagate Seatools, Hitachi DFT, etc) and see what is reported.

---

### Post by marcellux on 2011-12-28
I ran a quick and a complete hard disk test (Hitachi) and it gave no errors...

the error message was coming before the restoring to windows and after.

now I tried installing openSUSE, also KDE... and first thing I see after reboot is "hard disk error".

.....

I just tried with a Gnome distro, BT5 (no unity)... still getting "hard disk error". I click F2 and then ESC and the OS starts, but not happy with that...

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2011-12-28
There's no point in installing other OS's. If it was happening after they sent it back with Windows 7 on it, before you wiped it again then it is a problem with the computer. You shouldn't have installed Kubuntu even. Just given it back with Win7 still on it and told them to fix it correctly. You need to restore it back to Windows and give it back until it's done.

If it's a hitachi drive then DFT should have detected whatever code the drive is reporting to the BIOS. So it might be a problem on the mobo and not the drive itself.

---

### Post by marcellux on 2012-01-01
this is part of the problem!!!  UEFI

[http://benjaminkerensa.com/2011/10/23/uefi-headaches-begin-linux](http://benjaminkerensa.com/2011/10/23/uefi-headaches-begin-linux)


I read somewhere that removing GRUB and installing ELILO as bootloader should solve the problem... I 'll give it a try and then I'll post back to tell the results!!!

So, here it's me again with the results:
ELILO can handle UEFI!!! "HARD DISK ERROR" message on startup is gone!!!  Notice: after first reboot you will get 3 errors; no file found, no suitable mode found and no video found. Linux will run anyways. After second reboot the 3 errors will not show anymore!!! 

The boot loader looks like old school "grub" to choose what you want to do and with no timeout set as default, so you have to press enter to start. You can change the configuuration on elilo.conf, it should be located under etc/elilo.conf.

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-01-01
Then why was it giving a hard disk error when freshly installed with factory Windows?

---

### Post by marcellux on 2012-01-05
because of the dualboot! grub took over and became the only bootloader

---

### Post by xyzzyman on 2012-01-05
There was no grub when it was only windows installed!!

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2012-01-05
> **marcellux said:**
> because of the dualboot! grub took over and became the only bootloader
He is asking when just Windows was installed.  When you boot up Windows, and you got the error.  No other partitions were there, Kubuntu wasn't installed.
BTW, since this is solved, at the top right hand corner of the thread "box" there is something called "Thread Tools".  Click it, then click "Mark as Solved".

---

### Post by marcellux on 2012-01-17
with windows as only OS, no error messages.

with windows and linux dualboot with grub 2 bootloader, hard disk error

with linux as only OS, hard disk error

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2012-01-17
Windows is known for hiding error messages unless it is fatal

---

### Post by marcellux on 2012-05-01
And you are so right!!! 
I just cross-checked 2 notebooks with both HDDs... The toshiba HHD gave error message in the other notebook too. I bought a Samsung and it is now working sublimely!

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2012-05-03
Excellent to hear!
We had an iMac die with its HDD in.  The bootups took minutes, and things were very crashy and buggy.

Now you can have a great Ubuntu experience!

---

