---
title: "Resolution Help"
date: 2011-02-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by -schizoid on 2011-02-13
Well, after installing some routine updates, all of a sudden my monitor resolution has stopped working correctly. This has happened to me before, and I fixed it by editing the xorg.conf file. These are the settings:

> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder75)  Thu Apr 22 11:44:23 PDT 2010

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Acer"
    ModelName      "X203H"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 6150SE nForce 430"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "Acer X203H"
    Option         "metamodes" "1600x900_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1600x900"
    EndSubSection
EndSection
Now, whenever I boot up, I get an error message stating that X server does not support this resolution. The resolution somehow defaults to 1024x768. When I try to change the resolution through the NVIDIA settings, the proper resolution (1600x900) is not available. The closest ones are 1440x900 and 1600x1024. Also, my monitor is not recognized as it was before, but shows up as an unknown CRT (actually Acer X203H) Any suggestions on how to fix this?

---

### Post by -schizoid on 2011-02-15
Anyone?

---

### Post by -schizoid on 2011-02-17
Giving this another bump, haven't found a solution yet.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-02-17
The modern 'X' doesn't need an xorg.conf file any more. It can configure the graphics on the fly. I would recommend to try reconfiguring your graphics and see if things improve.

Press Ctrl + Alt + F1 at your desktop and login to the tty1.

Backup your existing xorg.conf

```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```

Note, capital 'X' for X11.

Reconfigure your graphics.

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

Reboot

```
sudo reboot now
```

---

### Post by -schizoid on 2011-02-17
Tried what you suggested. As far as I am aware nothing happened. One other thing I noticed though is that in "monitor preferences" (non-NVIDIA screen configuration tool), the max resolution is 1024x768, exactly what the computer loads in. The NVIDIA tool still does not have 1600x900 available in the options.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2011-02-17
Did you try removing and re-installing the nvidia drivers?

---

### Post by -schizoid on 2011-02-17
Yes, that brought me back to the same situation. No correct resolution in menus, boots at 1024x768.

---

