---
title: ".odt file corrupted :frown:"
date: 2012-04-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by paxh2o on 2012-04-09
hi 

i tried to open an .odt file today but i get the message "file corrupted". i sync important files with Ubuntu one but so far i cant restore a previously saved version. 

i didnt have the back up option activated :(

i tried opening it as zip. but all i get is error...
open office recovery tool retrieves an empty file.

any suggestions???

i only have a 2 month old copy of the original .


ive attached the file in case someone more experienced  wants to try ....

---

### Post by dragonfly41 on 2012-04-09
I tried recovering in OpenOffice but just get a blank file.   The file is only 48k in size.

p.s. perhaps look in trash for old copy?

or try this in terminal       [COLOR=Navy]locate *.odt[/COLOR]

---

### Post by paxh2o on 2012-04-09
> **dragonfly41 said:**
> I tried recovering in OpenOffice but just get a blank file.   The file is only 48k in size.

p.s. perhaps look in trash for old copy?


thanks! 
yes its not a big file... actually the last available copy i have is 44.5k
 and i get the blank file as well....

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2012-04-09
I tried it in LibreOffice 3.5 but still get an empty file in that.

Also attempted to open it in Abiword, which manages to get nothing but a load of garbage, and a couple of pages of ??????????????? at the end of the 55 pages, so no use at all.

---

### Post by paxh2o on 2012-04-09
my guess is that ubuntu one lost  part of the files (as would normally appear in the .zip file) while trying to sync the file due to bad connection. But shouldnt there be a trace of my last saved file on my hard disc?? do u think its possible to restore it as if it was a deleted file ??

i mean sync like.... check..... delete.... replace, im i right?

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-04-09
Lost or corrupted files in Libre Office is not as uncommon as we'd like it seems.  I've read some places that there's an issue with with .odt and ext4 file systems. If you do a forum search for lost files+ .odt or lost files+libre office you'll find some company, sorry to say.  I've taken to keeping current versions on a FAT32 flash drive as well as the hard drive.  So far so good but then i haven't created anything which I would be well and truly screwed if I lost it.  Critical files are the most prone to corruption and loss in my experience.

---

### Post by paxh2o on 2012-04-09
yes, ive done my homework! i ve seen similar cases around here. funny thing is most corrupted files come from students either masters or phds. i feel sorry for us poor students

---

