---
title: "9.04 - Add directory to $PATH"
date: 2009-10-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-04
I want to permanently add my home directory to the $PATH. All the references , tips, and suggestions I found are no longer valid.
How do I do this with Ubuntu 9.04.:confused:

---

### Post by ecmatter on 2009-10-04
Add this line to the end of your .bashrc file:

```

PATH="$HOME:$PATH"

```

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-04
> **ecmatter said:**
> Add this line to the end of your .bashrc file:

```

PATH="$HOME:$PATH"

```

export PATH=$PATH:$HOME

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2009-10-04
Add this to the end of ur /home/.bashrc file (press enter at the end of the line):

```
export PATH=$PATH:/home/yourusername
```

Of course replace [COLOR="Red"]yourusername[/COLOR] with your user name...

---

### Post by slakkie on 2009-10-04
> **gradinaruvasile said:**
> Add this to the end of ur /home/.bashrc file (press enter at the end of the line):

```
export PATH=$PATH:/home/yourusername
```

Of course replace [COLOR="Red"]yourusername[/COLOR] with your user name...That is what $HOME is.

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-12
I apologize for the delayed response. Unavoidable circumstances.

I appreciate the answers to my query, but have to admit, I am still confused as to exactly what to add to the .bashrc. It seems there is a bit of a disagreement as to the exact entry. Can I get a clarification, please?

---

### Post by Dejai on 2009-10-12
Open a terminal and type:
gedit .bashrc

Add what was said above. Save and close. Restart Terminal.

---

### Post by barthel on 2009-10-12
`export PATH=$HOME:$PATH` if you want your home directory checked first
`export PATH=${PATH}:$HOME` if you want your home directory to not have priority over the default path.

If you put this in ~/.bashrc, it will only affect bash shells. If you put it in ~/.profile it will affect dash as well.

Finally, adding $HOME to your path isn't necessarily the best idea. But if you create a `bin` subdirectory, it will automatically be included the next time you log in. (Check out ~/.profile). That's even easier than modifying ~/.bashrc.

---

### Post by lavinog on 2009-10-12
+1 to ~/bin directory

Why clutter your home folder with executables anyway?

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-10-12
Yes, lavinog, you are right. I don't need the clutter.

Thanks for the replies... really great forum!

---

