---
title: "ubuntu studio crashed video"
date: 2009-03-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by skippymo on 2009-03-10
hey guys, thought i would post this here too, i have it video forum as well. trying to get more exposure.

hi everyone,

i have a weird problem, i installed ubuntu studio and today i cannot use the top option for the boot. i get a xorg error and it asks if i want to view the file and fix the changes (that only happened once, not anymore). only thing i don't know enough about this to diag the problem. if i use the second option under the recovery option ( i think it is an older version ) i can boot to ubuntu fine.

tried to use the recovery option and fix the x server did not work.

help i don't know what to do.

---

### Post by Peasantoid on 2009-03-10
Huh. Post up the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf and someone should be able to help you.

---

### Post by skippymo on 2009-03-10
i'm not sure how this is going to help since i'm using a different boot then the one that automatically boots up. i assume i'm using an older version or a backup version. example: ubuntu studio loads a screen that displays the logo and the words ubuntu studio and the words fill in (white) as it loads. regular ubuntu displays the ubuntu logo and a status bar that loads. i'm successfully booting with the older status bar one. i only once booted with the ubuntu studio splash screen. anyhow the config file is from the one i can boot into.




# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by skippymo on 2009-03-10
maybe this will help.

i have these options on boot

2.6.27-11 generic
2.6.27-11 recovery
2.6.27-7 (or 6 i don't remember) generic
2.6.27-7 (or 6 i don't remember) recovery

i have to select the 2.6.27-7 to boot
if i let the auto load of the first my screen goes nuts and i never get to my logon screen

also i have reloaded the xserver and my old ones are backed up but i don't think that is working

sorry about being vauge not sure how to explain this one.

---

