---
title: "7.10 Live and RAID / LVM drives"
date: 2008-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pradeepjey on 2008-04-25
Hi,

Ok, the story so far. I have an old Linux installation over 2 SATA drives in  a RAID 0 array. I've upgraded my machine, and I want to pull some files off this array before wiping it and starting again. So I'm using a 7.10 Live CD. I just want to mount the drives so i can copy stuff off onto a USB hard drive. My new motherboard doesn't support RAID so I'm using a PCI RAID card (VIA VT6421)

So I know the installation on the drives uses LVM so first thing I've done is 

# sudo bash
# apt-get install lvm2
# modprobe dm-mod

then

#apt-get install dmraid

and here's where I'm stuck

#dmriad -ay -vvv

gives this

[I]WARN: locking /var/lock/dmraid/.lock
NOTICE: /dev/sda: asr     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: ddf1    discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: hpt37x  discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: hpt45x  discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: isw     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: jmicron discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: lsi     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: nvidia  discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: pdc     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: sil     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: via     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sda: via metadata discovered
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: asr     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: ddf1    discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: hpt37x  discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: hpt45x  discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: isw     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: jmicron discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: lsi     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: nvidia  discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: pdc     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: sil     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/sdb: via     discovering
NOTICE: added /dev/sda to RAID set "via_bfbghfghif"
RAID set "via_bfbghfghif" already active
INFO: Activating stripe RAID set "via_bfbghfghif"
NOTICE: discovering partitions on "via_bfbghfghif"
NOTICE: /dev/mapper/via_bfbghfghif: dos     discovering
NOTICE: /dev/mapper/via_bfbghfghif: dos metadata discovered
ERROR: dos: partition address past end of RAID device
NOTICE: created partitioned RAID set(s) for /dev/mapper/via_bfbghfghif
RAID set "via_bfbghfghif1" already active
INFO: Activating partition RAID set "via_bfbghfghif1"
WARN: unlocking /var/lock/dmraid/.lock[/I]

If I try mounting /dev/mapper/via_bfbghfghif I get a message saying it is already mounted or the target dir is busy.

Computer file browser sees the /boot partition on the drives (which would be non LVM) but if I try to access it I get the already mounted message. It can't see the LVM partitions I need. Gparted doesn't seem happy either as it just sits forever on "scanning devices."

The fdisk output for both drives is as follows:

[I]ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk /dev/sda

The number of cylinders for this disk is set to 19457.
There is nothing wrong with that, but this is larger than 1024,
and could in certain setups cause problems with:
1) software that runs at boot time (e.g., old versions of LILO)
2) booting and partitioning software from other OSs
   (e.g., DOS FDISK, OS/2 FDISK)

Command (m for help): p

Disk /dev/sda: 160.0 GB, 160041885696 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 19457 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x0001874d

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *           1          25      200781   83  Linux
/dev/sda2              26       38914   312375892+  8e  Linux LVM

Command (m for help): q

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk /dev/sdb
Device contains neither a valid DOS partition table, nor Sun, SGI or OSF disklabel
Building a new DOS disklabel with disk identifier 0xf838f751.
Changes will remain in memory only, until you decide to write them.
After that, of course, the previous content won't be recoverable.


The number of cylinders for this disk is set to 30401.
There is nothing wrong with that, but this is larger than 1024,
and could in certain setups cause problems with:
1) software that runs at boot time (e.g., old versions of LILO)
2) booting and partitioning software from other OSs
   (e.g., DOS FDISK, OS/2 FDISK)
Warning: invalid flag 0x0000 of partition table 4 will be corrected by w(rite)

Command (m for help): p

Disk /dev/sdb: 250.0 GB, 250059350016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 30401 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Disk identifier: 0xf838f751

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System

Command (m for help): [/I]

I'm a bit stuck now so any help you can give would be great. In small words preferably as I feel really out of my depth!

Thanks in advance.

---

