---
title: "12.10 help"
date: 2013-01-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by izombie666 on 2013-01-27
I upgraded to Ubuntu 12.10 when it was released.  I have had quite a number of issues with it.  Terrible start up and shut down, internal system errors, and other buggy stuff.

I wonder if Lubuntu 12.10 is more stable?  I tried in Virtualbox and it had problems there but I suspect that Vbox isn't working well in Ubuntu 12.10.

Has anyone found the Lubuntu release to be more stable?

---

### Post by ProxyCyber on 2013-01-27
Hi,


Actually I would say that I've also had problems with the VirtualBox use on Linux. It always displays errors but when I booted from my CD or Flash Drive it worked better. I wouldn't say that it's more stable in general, I just think the UI is lighter. Meaning that it's more lightweight. 


As for 12.10 I know what you mean. I've always been the type, that when a new Linux distro is released I wait 5-6 months before using it so it can stabilize first. I use Linux Zorin OS 6 if you're looking for a fast OS with really good GUI. So to break it down, for me both were okay, but right now Lubuntu seems a bit better.

---

### Post by izombie666 on 2013-01-27
After all the testing i have done, I decided to just go back to 12.04.  So far so good.  My system is running very smooth and noticeably faster than with 12.10.   I have test other systems for the past few weeks and it boiled down to Lubuntu or Ubuntu 12.04.  I like the Unity desk top so that is what I went with.  I will stick to LTS distro's in the future.

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2013-01-27
I use the Lubuntu release, and it's pretty stable, though I had to install a few metapackages to get it to work correctly (I use GNOME-Shell)

---

### Post by ACubed10 on 2013-01-27
i too have troubles running linux distros in VirtualBox. which confuses me really

---

