---
title: "8.10 RC Announcement"
date: 2008-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by phr0ze on 2008-10-24
I noticed this in 8.10...

> **nVidia "legacy" video support**
The 71 and 96 series of proprietary nVidia drivers, as provided by the nvidia-glx-legacy and nvidia-glx packages in Ubuntu 8.04, are not compatible with the X.Org included in Ubuntu 8.10. Users with the nVidia TNT, TNT2, TNT Ultra, GeForce, GeForce2, GeForce3, ***and GeForce4 ***chipsets are affected and will be transitioned on upgrade to the free nv driver instead. This driver ***does not support 3D ***acceleration. 

Geforce 4 is not that old and I would suspect that most Ubuntu users have cards like a geforce 4. One reason ubuntu is pushed is because it will run better on older hardware.

So will this be fixed/resolved by next week? Or is this the final answer?

---

### Post by GordonCopestake on 2008-10-24
Depends on nVidia to provide the driver I guess. Can't blame the OS manufacturer

---

### Post by phr0ze on 2008-10-24
Nvidia didn't break (make incompatable) their drivers, the 'OS Manufacturer' did.

Basically I believe it's too large of a portion of users to do this to. And when everyone upgrades at the end of the month and realizes the 3D doesn't work, it'll loose users and make some headlines (on digg and such).

However I will say that 'large portion of users' is in my head. But with such a risk I'd hope Ubuntu Devs would at least try to figure out an approximate amount that will be affected.

---

### Post by overdrank on 2008-10-24
> **phr0ze said:**
> Nvidia didn't break (make incompatable) their drivers, the 'OS Manufacturer' did.

Basically I believe it's too large of a portion of users to do this to. And when everyone upgrades at the end of the month and realizes the 3D doesn't work, it'll loose users and make some headlines (on digg and such).

However I will say that 'large portion of users' is in my head. But with such a risk I'd hope Ubuntu Devs would at least try to figure out an approximate amount that will be affected.

Hi and that is if the users do upgrade. With Hardy being LTS many may not choose to upgrade as I am not. :)

---

### Post by DGortze380 on 2008-10-24
Nothing says you have to upgrade with every release, especially if there is such a current LTS release. If your driver is not functional withe new xOrg ... wait.

Or if you're able, help break them.

---

### Post by Rocket2DMn on 2008-10-24
As usual, restricted drivers are proving to be a pain.  X has made great improvements with autodetection and Ubuntu has provided the Restricted Drivers Manager which has made life easier for many, but it is far from perfect.  Hopefully nvidia and ati will release proprietary drivers compatible with the new X soon.  While I am not affected, the forums will certainly be flooded with user seeking help with their video cards after upgrading.

---

### Post by ewproctor on 2008-10-24
It's a definite no-go for me.

---

### Post by dburnett77 on 2008-10-24
either download a newer free card, or go with nv driver

---

### Post by enigma101 on 2008-10-29
I agree that something needs to be done with this X.org conflict with the drivers.  I have sent a request to Nvidia Customer Service and they sent me this...

Hello ____,
Thank you for contacting NVIDIA Customer Care.
This is ____ assisting you.

You have submitted your question to a Microsoft Windows support team. We are sorry, but we are not able to address Linux installation, usage, and troubleshooting questions here.
For Linux support, please use the Linux Support forum linked here.
[http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?s=&forumid=14](http://www.nvnews.net/vbulletin/forumdisplay.php?s=&forumid=14)
You can also find answers, to many of the most frequently asked Linux questions in our knowledge base or the text readme file on the driver page.
[http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux.html) or
[http://nvidia.custhelp.com](http://nvidia.custhelp.com)
To submit Linux bug reports, please email [email]linux-bugs@nvidia.com[/email] or [email]linux-nforce-bugs@nvidia.com[/email] please attach an nvidia-bug-report.log, which is generated by running "nvidia-bug-report.sh".  :confused:
We apologize for the inconvenience that caused you.
Please feel free to contact us, if you have any further concerns.
Best Regards,
NVIDIA Customer Care

So I suppose I will be sending something to [email]linux-bugs@nvidia.com[/email] and I think you all should too.  

It is a real problem for me because I have a 900Mhz Duron Spitfire which doesn't support SSE instruction sets like the 177.xx.xx drivers require.  So even if I install this 6200 I have sitting here, my CPU will not be able to use the drivers.  And the whole reason I need to upgrade is because DMA or UDMA doesn't work in Ubuntu 8.04.  With a 900Mhz Duron handling all your file reading and writing, it really slows things down.  I was thinking of going back to the faster 7.04 version, but that just ended its support for updates.  :(

---

