---
title: "Cannot copy files"
date: 2008-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by k0tt0n on 2008-07-27
i've downloaded a cd to my desktop and i cannot cut and paste or copy it to my ntfs storage drive. i get the error  "cannot be copied because you do not have permissions to create it in the destination."
thanks in advance

---

### Post by dexter.deepak on 2008-07-27
use
```
sudo cp -rf ~/Desktop/<your_cd> <the_ntfs_drive_location> 
```

---

### Post by geirha on 2008-07-27
Alternatively, you can change the mount options for that ntfs partition, so that your user has write access to it. Post your /etc/fstab if you want help with that.

---

### Post by k0tt0n on 2008-07-27
thanks. geirha. here's a copy of my fstab. the drive i want to write to is the second last one in the list. the Music drive.


# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sdc5 :
UUID=78abc143-3c0b-4657-b19a-1f61fbd4c1da / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sdc6 :
UUID=05da5fed-f792-46c3-bcf6-a96a43fca420 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd1 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
LABEL=Music /media/Music ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0
/dev/sdc1 /media/Windows\040Drive ntfs umask=222,utf8 0 0

---

### Post by jonian_g on 2008-07-27
GUI application to mount partitions and give write permisions = "Storage device manager"

```
sudo apt-get install pysdm
```

Description in Synaptic:

"Graphical Storage Device Manager
PySDM is a PyGTK Storage Device Manager that allows full customization of hard
disk mountpoints whitout manually access to fstab.
It also allows the creation of udev rules for dynamic configuration of storage
devices"

After installing it go to System>Admin>Storage device manager.

Click the "Assistant" button to set your mount options.

---

### Post by k0tt0n on 2008-07-28
thanks jonian_g. that was easy to use. but now i've got a ******** of drives with mixed mount points in my /Media folder. can i just delete the lot somehow and start all over?

---

### Post by jonian_g on 2008-07-28
Of course. Open Storage device manager, unmount the partition you want and then click the remove button.

Open a terminal and type:

```
sudo nautilus
```

Navigate to the /media folder and delete the mountpoints you created and start over again.

---

### Post by RuleMaker on 2008-07-28
You can give everyone all rights for that drive:
```
sudo chmod a+x+r+w /media/Music
```
or change your fstab line to:
LABEL=Music /media/Music ntfs users,uid=1000,umask=222,utf8 0 0

Note: uid=1000 is for the first created user, you can check your uid in:
System->Administration->Users And Groups

---

### Post by medic2000 on 2008-07-28
> **jonian_g said:**
> Of course. Open Storage device manager, unmount the partition you want and then click the remove button.

Open a terminal and type:

```
sudo nautilus
```

Navigate to the /media folder and delete the mountpoints you created and start over again.

It is gksudo. Remember for GUI programs using gksudo is more accurate.

---

### Post by jonian_g on 2008-07-28
> **medic2000 said:**
> It is gksudo. Remember for GUI programs using gksudo is more accurate.

gksudo is when you press Alt+F2 and when you create application launchers, when you open a terminal, sudo does the same thing.

---

### Post by RuleMaker on 2008-07-28
No, it don't does the same thing, you can use sudo but it's not recommended.

---

### Post by medic2000 on 2008-07-29
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo)

---

