---
title: "10.04 LTS System Freeze on Logout."
date: 2010-05-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leona on 2010-05-28
Hi.

I am having an issue with 10.04 which is now becoming irritating.

My partner and I share the computer, so we are normally both logged in.

When we come to turn the computer off, one of us will log out then the other shuts down (to have a clean shutdown), but when either one of us uses 'Logout' the system just freezes, no response, nothing, have to turn the machine off via power button.

We can 'switch user' fine, and everything else appears ok but log out fails, I did try reporting a bug on this, but seems to have got taken over with people with dual screens / SLI cards, taking it over and its not the same thing.

I get the 'impression' its a graphics driver issue, I'm using the 'recommended' Nvidia driver (am at work and can't remember which version sorry).

Has anyone else had this and knows how to solve it?  Its driving us mad ! :(

Thank you.

---

### Post by alco75 on 2010-05-30
I have the same issue, it sounds like. I created an account for my wife to use, but when she's finished her session and I log her out, the display goes black and hangs there, and I have to hit the reset switch. This only seems to be a problem if one account logs out while another account is still logged in. i.e. if I log out of my account, then wifey logs into hers, then wifey logs out of hers, the issue doesn't occur. It's only when using user switching.

To be clear, what works:

1. switch on PC
2. login as me
3. logout me
4. login as wifey
5. logout wifey
6. login as me

What doesn't work:

1. switch on PC
2. login as me
3. **switch user** to wifey - okay
4. logout wifey - **freeze**

I'm running Linux-x86_64 w/ nVidia driver version 173.14.22, if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by cojoco on 2010-06-02
Happens to me too, and can't get any consoles from the keyboard while it is frozen.

It happens with both of my computers, and one is ATI, and one is NVidia, so I don't think it is display drivers.

I can log in with SSH from my laptop and kill the X server, which seems to be running at 100% CPU, but that's not always an option.

---

### Post by jazzgossen on 2010-06-07
Just adding that I'm affected by this too (running nvidia 173.14.22 and Xorg 1.7.6). I can hear that the CPU goes to 100% when the bug strikes by the sound of my fan.

---

### Post by frozenjim on 2010-06-10
> **alco75 said:**
> What doesn't work:

1. switch on PC
2. login as me
3. **switch user** to wifey - okay
4. logout wifey - **freeze**

I'm running Linux-x86_64 w/ nVidia driver version 173.14.22, if that makes any difference.

There is a bug on launchpad for this: [http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBIQFjAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fbugs.launchpad.net%2Fubuntu%2F%2Bsource%2Fnvidia-graphics-drivers%2F%2Bbug%2F573101&ei=l9AQTKqGHIeMNpD69P4C&usg=AFQjCNGXMFZZNjlDcZ2OxS7_cOZqGehgIg](http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CBIQFjAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fbugs.launchpad.net%2Fubuntu%2F%2Bsource%2Fnvidia-graphics-drivers%2F%2Bbug%2F573101&ei=l9AQTKqGHIeMNpD69P4C&usg=AFQjCNGXMFZZNjlDcZ2OxS7_cOZqGehgIg)

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-06-10
Until a fix you could try two options.

1. Use switch user then shutdown.

2. [http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/](http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/)
   Except use REISUO. Muuch better than power button and safer.

---

### Post by frozenjim on 2010-06-10
> **philinux said:**
> Until a fix you could try two options.

...

2. [http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/](http://kember.net/articles/reisub-the-gentle-linux-restart/)
   Except use REISUO. Muuch better than power button and safer.

Well holy crap.  How did I never hear about that before?

I tried it on a frozen system and it worked just as advertised.  Truly great thinking on the parts of the Kernel Devs I say.

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-06-10
> **frozenjim said:**
> Well holy crap.  How did I never hear about that before?

I tried it on a frozen system and it worked just as advertised.  Truly great thinking on the parts of the Kernel Devs I say.

Magic!

[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_SysRq_key)

---

### Post by tak1150 on 2010-07-27
Any update on this bug, anyone?

---

### Post by aidenscool09 on 2010-07-27
Someone should report it to Bugzilla/Canonical whatever/wherever you report bugs to. (I've never reported a bug and haven't needed to)

---

### Post by leona on 2010-08-05
I did file a bug, they moved it then closed it, but ITS STILL BROKEN,
Frustrated with this, we've had kernal and video updates and it STILL DOESN'T WORK!

We can't be the only one's with this issue right?

[Bug 1 [unassigned]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers/+bug/573101") Does this mean they're not interested in fixing it?
[Bug 2 [again unassigned]]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/nvidia-graphics-drivers-180/+bug/577936") one that I raised.
So tell me, what's the point of raising a bug if no one is going to fix it?

---

### Post by s-tobe on 2010-08-31
Hi,
I experienced the same problem, so did Nvidia because they have released a new driver for my 5200fx card. In the release notes (check [http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-173.14.27-driver.html](http://www.nvidia.com/object/linux-display-ia32-173.14.27-driver.html)) they mention:
 	
173.14.27 Certified
Release Date:
	
2010.08.04
Operating System:
	
Linux
Language:
	
English (U.S.)
File Size:
	
18.8 MB
	
Download	

Release Highlights
Supported products
Additional information

    * Fixed a bug in the XvMC driver that prevented it from working on systems with AGP graphics cards.
    * Added support for X.Org xserver 1.8.
 **   * Fixed a bug that could cause X.Org xserver >= 1.7 to hang when restarted.**

---

### Post by leona on 2010-08-31
I thought if driver updates where produced that they would go through the repos so that they would be picked up with the noremal updates, no? 
So if this isn't the case, then how do we go about updating the drivers?

---

### Post by leona on 2010-09-01
Ok, I had a look at the site and did a search, I have a 7600GS and I am running the 64 bit OS so I got:
Linux x64 (AMD64/EM64T) Display Driver
Version: 256.53 Certified
Release Date: 2010.08.31
Operating System:Linux 64-bit
Language: English (UK)
File Size: 40.9 MB
Which gives you a file like
NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-256.53.run
It doesn't tell you what to do with this file?  I can't run it, (as name would suggest) it asks me for an app to run it with, so what 'do' I do with it?
I noted also that the freeze problem isn't mentioned in the release highlights.

*  Fixed a bug that prevented XvMC from initializing in most cases.
* Added support for xorg-server video driver ABI version 8, which will be included in the upcoming xorg-server-1.9 series of releases.
* Fixed a bug that caused extremely slow rendering of OpenGL applications on X screens other than screen 0 when using a compositing manager.
* Fixed a regression introduced after 256.35 that caused stability problems on GPUs such as GeForce GT 240.
* Fixed a slow kernel virtual address space leak observed whenstarting and stopping OpenGL, CUDA, or VDPAU applications.
* Fixed a bug that left the system susceptible to hangs when running two or more VDPAU applications simultaneously.

In the 'hardware drivers' section, it lists drivers 96 and 173, no mention of 256? can we add drivers to it?  Where is it getting its driver list from?

---

### Post by scified7 on 2010-09-08
This problem is confirmed.  Is there a bug number in launchpad?  Very annoying.



> **alco75 said:**
> I have the same issue, it sounds like. I created an account for my wife to use, but when she's finished her session and I log her out, the display goes black and hangs there, and I have to hit the reset switch. This only seems to be a problem if one account logs out while another account is still logged in. i.e. if I log out of my account, then wifey logs into hers, then wifey logs out of hers, the issue doesn't occur. It's only when using user switching.

To be clear, what works:

1. switch on PC
2. login as me
3. logout me
4. login as wifey
5. logout wifey
6. login as me

What doesn't work:

1. switch on PC
2. login as me
3. **switch user** to wifey - okay
4. logout wifey - **freeze**

I'm running Linux-x86_64 w/ nVidia driver version 173.14.22, if that makes any difference.

---

### Post by leona on 2010-09-08
> **scified7 said:**
> This problem is confirmed.  Is there a bug number in launchpad?  Very annoying.

Err yes, see [post 11]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9682066&postcount=11"), there are 2 filed bugs.

It would seem that as the bug is in the video drivers and not 'ubuntu' as such, filing the bug in Launch Pad seems to have no affect, I guess we are supposed to raise this with NVidia?

Also though it would seem that NVidia have release an update to their video drivers, I don't know how long this takes to get into the update stream or whether 'we' are supposed to update the drivers ourselves.

Kind of left out in the cold here, no one seem to know what's going on? 
(at least with M$ Windoze, you could just download and install a new driver yourself).

---

### Post by jazzgossen on 2010-09-09
> **leona said:**
> Kind of left out in the cold here, no one seem to know what's going on? 
(at least with M$ Windoze, you could just download and install a new driver yourself).

Actually, you can. I've been having the same problem, but just realized that I was using an old nvidia driver. 

What I did to solve it was this:
[LIST=1][*]Install nvidia-current (for example, "sudo apt-get install nvidia-current").
[*]Go to the System menu, then Administration and Hardware Drivers.
[*]Make sure that the latest (recommended) nvidia driver is being used.
[*]Restart, and everything should be good again.
[/LIST]

You can also check which driver is being used at the moment by running "nvidia-settings". Oh, and this won't work if you have an older nvidia card than GeForce 6 (because the new driver doesn't support older cards).

Please post back if it helps or not.

---

### Post by leona on 2010-09-09
Hi Thank you for your reply.
When I tried to install the driver I get.
sudo apt-get install nvidia-current.
I says my version is 173.14.22, this version doesn't work and as described abover .27 is the latest, so again, how do we get the 'real' latest version?
For my 7600GS, Nvidia has version 256.53, so why has it installed 173?

Oh, I missed the step about selecting the 'current - recommended' driver.
Doing that and restarting gave me version 195.36.24 (still not 256 but hey) and as you correctly said, the problem IS SOLVED! YIPPIE!!!!!!!

Thank you so so much!

---

### Post by hansheijmans on 2011-03-31
What about systems with ATI GPUs? Same problem here, but not using nVidia...:confused:

---

