---
title: "9.04 Kernel update caused &quot;attempt to access block outside partition&quot;"
date: 2009-07-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mrdek11 on 2009-07-08
I run a box with Ubuntu 9.04 Jaunty.
As it is a Myth box, I try to reboot as little as possible, replacing it with ctrl+alt+backspace in all possible situations.
An update has been bugging me for a few weeks to restart, so I finally allowed it to reboot.
As grub began to load, I got the following error:

24 : Attempt to access block outside partition

I rebooted again, this time paying attention to grub. It gave me the option of two different kernels:
 vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic
 vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic

The 13 one was the default.
I tried booting the 11 kernel, and everything works fine.

I assume that the kernel was updated recently, and I had just never booted the new kernel until now.

Does anybody know what I should do to fix this error so I can run the new kernel?

Thanks!

---

### Post by Biermacht on 2009-07-17
Similar problem here. Had 2.6.28.13 working fine. Updated to 2.6.30...Worked for a couple of weeks, now it gives the same error. 2.6.28.13 works fine...What can that be???

---

### Post by fredch on 2009-07-17
Same here

boot with kernel:

vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic OK

vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic gives the error 24 : Attempt to access block outside partition

have recently changed my /boot partition to ext4

---

### Post by Biermacht on 2009-07-21
> **fredch said:**
> Same here

boot with kernel:

vmlinuz-2.6.28-11-generic OK

vmlinuz-2.6.28-13-generic gives the error 24 : Attempt to access block outside partition

have recently changed my /boot partition to ext4


Maybe GRUB has problems with ext4 as a boot partition???

---

### Post by ernstblaauw on 2009-07-22
I just updated my partition to ext4, and the first time booting went ok. After that, I had a massive amount of updates and I had to restart. Now, my Karmic installation gives

Error 24: Attempt to acces block outside partition


Did you find a solution to this problem?

---

### Post by Pavel.Pokorny on 2009-08-09
For me 2.6.28-13 works fine.
After updating Ubuntu 9.04 today I get 

Boot from (hd0,0) ext3  e31433c-ce33........
Error 24: Attempt to access block outside partition
Press any key to continue...

2.6.28-13 still works fine, the error appears when booting 2.6.28-14.

Pavel

---

### Post by mrdek11 on 2009-08-12
I've never found a fix for this problem. I receive the error booting 2.6.28-13 and 2.6.28-14.

---

### Post by Pavel.Pokorny on 2009-08-18
Updating to 2.6.28-15 solves the problem for me.

---

### Post by Pavel.Pokorny on 2009-08-19
I was happy yesterday when upgrading to 2.6.28-15 solved the problem with Error 24.
Today I have installed all the updates recommended by Ubuntu and rebooted the system.
And now  the error message

Boot from (hd0,0) ext3  e31433c-ce33........
Error 24: Attempt to access block outside partition
Press any key to continue...

appears again when trying to boot 2.6.28-15 or 2.6.28-14.
Booting 2.6.28-13 works O.K.

Something is wrong in the Ubuntu update scheme.

Pavel

---

### Post by Pavel.Pokorny on 2009-10-22
I have updated to 2.6.28-16-generic today
and it boots O.K.
Pavel

---

