---
title: "compiz white screen"
date: 2008-05-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alexironaek on 2008-05-31
hi guys , i am a total linux noob and i want your help , i am trying to run compiz but every time my screen turns white , my screen turns white also when i change the visual effects , my video card is ati radeon x1950, i've tried a lot of things that i found on the internet but sadly none of them worked :(

THANK YOU GUYS :)

my xorg.conf file is:

> 
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen      0  "aticonfig-Screen[0]" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	Option	    "VendorName" "ATI Proprietary Driver"
	Option	    "ModelName" "Generic Autodetecting Monitor"
	Option	    "DPMS" "true"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "aticonfig-Screen[0]"
	Device     "aticonfig-Device[0]"
	Monitor    "aticonfig-Monitor[0]"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Viewport   0 0
		Depth     24
	EndSubSection
EndSection


---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-05-31
Did you install the fglrx driver from Ubuntu's repository or manually?

---

### Post by alexironaek on 2008-05-31
thanks for the quick reply :guitar:  i install the driver with the second method of this page 
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Hardy_Installation_Guide)

---

### Post by ginger_meggs on 2008-05-31
Download EnvyNG and let it install the drivers for you. It will automatically download and configure the drivers for you. Worked for me first go. I've got a Dell Inspiron 9800 with an ATI Radeon Mobility X1400.

You can get Envy from here [http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html](http://albertomilone.com/nvidia_scripts1.html) or install it from the universe or multiverse repositories...I can't remember which.

---

### Post by alexironaek on 2008-05-31
i've tried with EnvyNG but after that the GUI did not even start :(

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-05-31
Before installing anything outside the repositories: is there any specific reason why you want to do that?

If not: stick with Ubuntu's version of fglrx.
As far as I know, that white screen of death problem only comes up when installing fglrx manually.

---

### Post by alexironaek on 2008-05-31
well , i can't stick with ubuntu's version of fglrx because if i do that then the GUI does not start , exactly the same think happens if i install the driver using Envy , after the ubuntu's logo there is a black screen waiting for me :(

---

