---
title: "Please help with resolv.conf"
date: 2009-06-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Lucky75 on 2009-06-24
Hi all,

I've been having a problem where my resolv.conf seems to keep updating itself? What happens is that whenever I enter something in my address bar as a "feeling lucky" search, my firefox always redirects to my annoying ISP's (Rogers) "not found" 404 page. However, sometimes this happens even when I'm not entering information into the address bar and just clicking on a link, or when the address is correct.

It seems to be a problem with the resolv.conf file? I'm not too sure what it all means, but here's the file:

/etc/resolv.conf:
```

# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.1.1
search <router/network name>

```

Would removing the "search" line work? The resolv.conf keeps getting overwritten though. Not too sure how to fix it.


/etc/dhcp3/dhclient.conf:

```

option rfc3442-classless-static-routes code 121 = array of unsigned integer 8;

send host-name "<hostname>";
request subnet-mask, broadcast-address, time-offset, routers,
        domain-name, domain-name-servers, domain-search, host-name,
        netbios-name-servers, netbios-scope, interface-mtu,
        rfc3442-classless-static-routes, ntp-servers;


```

I've also tried to "sudo chattr +i resolv.conf", but the file still changed back after.

Something is still overwriting the file. Any idea how to change whatever is doing the overwriting so it doesn't add the "search" line anymore without hacking it so that nothing has permissions to write?

Thanks for the help!

---

### Post by jonobr on 2009-06-24
Hello


I dont thing there is a problem with your resolv.conf

It sounds as if you hitting a site that is not there and google.ca are redirecting to rodgers and the rodgers piece is not working correctly.

This sounds like a service providor issue.

---

### Post by Lucky75 on 2009-06-24
It hits sites, starts to load, and THEN redirects to the "notfound" page after about half a second. The websites are real sites that I normally visit. Removing the "search" line usually fixes the problem. Doesn't that suggest a problem with the resolv?

---

