---
title: "*.rar-Archive Files ask password"
date: 2008-08-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CHW on 2008-08-24
Hello,

I have a problem opening *.rar files. I installed the RAR archiver tool and use the archive manager I got with Ubuntu.

Very often I get asked for a password, but there is no password, because when I open these archives in Windows there is absolutely no problem.
With my own rar files there is no problem.

thanks

---

### Post by drs305 on 2008-08-24
> **CHW said:**
> Hello,

I have a problem opening *.rar files. I installed the RAR archiver tool and use the archive manager I got with Ubuntu.

Very often I get asked for a password, but there is no password, because when I open these archives in Windows there is absolutely no problem.
With my own rar files there is no problem.

thanks

Do you know where the rar files are downloaded to and to where they are being unpacked? If they are being downloaded to other than somewhere in your home partition it could be a permission problem. 

If they are accessing any of the system partitions you would probably need to enter the 'root' password to allow altering the files therein. I that what is happening. If you, the easiest thing would be to ensure packages are downloaded to somewhere in your home folder.

---

### Post by CHW on 2008-08-24
The files are downloaded into my home folder and also unpacked there.

I also tried to enter my root password when the password is asked, but without success...

---

### Post by forger on 2008-08-24
So let me see if I got this straight, you're trying to extract a rar file in Ubuntu, whereas in Windows the same file works fine?

- Close any archive managers you may be using
- Download and install (or reinstall for that matter) rar, menu Applications > Accessories > Terminal and execute this command:
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall rar unrar
```
- Log out and log back in
- Try right-clicking on the file and select "Extract here"

- If it doesn't work again you can use the terminal to extract it:
```
cd mydirectory
rar x myfile.rar
```
(this will also show you some more error info, you could reply here with that)

Can you post the links of the .rar files you downloaded? I'd like to try them out

---

### Post by CHW on 2008-08-24
Ok, I tried this and I still have the same problems, but with the console command I could extract them without any error.

I can't post the files I don't know the sources anymore.

---

### Post by forger on 2008-08-24
Try the same with 
```
unrar x myfile.rar
```

Can you unpack it again successfully?
Seems like you will eventually make friends with the command line :)

---

### Post by pietjanjaap on 2008-08-24
Ubuntu archive manager asked a password because there is something wrong with the rar file, broken file or crc not good.
I am using q7z and it's gone the problem.

---

### Post by neur0 on 2008-08-24
I get this when there is a multi-part rar and some part is missing. Is the rar you are trying to open a part or the whole rar?

---

### Post by CHW on 2008-08-24
> Can you unpack it again successfully?
Seems like you will eventually make friends with the command line 

Yes, it's extracted successfully.

I'm already familiar with the command line ;)


>  Ubuntu archive manager asked a password because there is something wrong with the rar file, broken file or crc not good.
I am using q7z and it's gone the problem. 

I tried also q7z and I had the same problem there

> I get this when there is a multi-part rar and some part is missing. Is the rar you are trying to open a part or the whole rar? 

Yes, now as you say it!
I try to remember, I think the complete ones worked always.
I didn't notice that before.

---

