---
title: "Wide screen display is driving me mad!"
date: 2007-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by turbotom on 2007-05-10
(I'm sure you guys get similar posts a billion times a day. So, I delayed adding another one of "those" posts as long as I could before smashing other people's personal property in a rage.)
Anyway, the resolution of my widescreen worked fine in Edgy, then I upgraded and the madness began. I'm using an ATI 9800 Pro and I'm using the fglrx restricted drivers. Everything appears to be working fine with that. But my viewsonic 2012wb, 1680x1050 display, makes me want to destroy innocent things. The screen resolution ap wouldn't let me select 1680x1050. Though, it was finally working fine when I made a few changes to my xorg.conf (my current xorg.conf posted below) and restarted gdm. I selected the correct resolution and watched Kill Bill 2--a detail that's not really relevant.
I wake up this morning, turn on my computer and the log-in screen is "out of range." Of course, meaning that either the resolution or refresh is out of the monitor's specs. So, I ctrl+alt+F6ed and copied my older xorg.conf back to make sure it would work and it did. Put the one with the working resolution back, login screen still didn't display, but when I got to the desktop, I couldn't select 1680x1050! It worked yesterday!
...I need to strangle some kittens.
Sorry if this post is incredibly confusing and rambly. The point is, I made some weird changes to xorg.conf, like remove the modeline, and it temporarily worked.

Maybe I should start from scratch...is there a way to regenerate xorg.conf?
(Like usual, maybe someone will get back to me with a super simple fix that makes me feel like a moron.)

Thanks a bunch!



# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier     "Default Layout"
	Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
	InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
	FontPath     "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
	FontPath     "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load  "i2c"
	Load  "bitmap"
	Load  "ddc"
	Load  "dri"
	Load  "extmod"
	Load  "freetype"
	Load  "glx"
	Load  "int10"
	Load  "type1"
	Load  "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Generic Keyboard"
	Driver      "kbd"
	Option	    "CoreKeyboard"
	Option	    "XkbRules" "xorg"
	Option	    "XkbModel" "pc105"
	Option	    "XkbLayout" "us"
	Option	    "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
	Driver      "mouse"
	Option	    "CorePointer"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
	Option	    "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
	Option	    "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
	Option	    "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "stylus"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "stylus"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "eraser"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "eraser"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
	Identifier  "cursor"
	Driver      "wacom"
	Option	    "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
	Option	    "Type" "cursor"
	Option	    "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier   "Generic Monitor"
	HorizSync    30.0 - 94.0
	VertRefresh  50.0 - 75.0
	DisplaySize  1680	1050
	Option	     "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier  "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon R350 NH [Radeon 9800 Pro]"
	Driver      "fglrx"
	Option	    "AGPMode" "8"
	Option	    "AGPFastWrite" "on"
	Option	    "VideoOverlay" "on"
	Option	    "OpenGLOverlay" "off"
	BusID       "PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "Default Screen"
	Device     "ATI Technologies, Inc. Radeon R350 NH [Radeon 9800 Pro]"
	Monitor    "Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth     24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth     24
		Modes    "1680x1050@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "DRI"
	Mode         0666
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option	    "Composite" "0"
EndSection

---

### Post by useResa on 2007-05-10
> **turbotom said:**
> Sorry if this post is incredibly confusing and rambly.No worries, IMHO we all have been there  ;)

> **turbotom said:**
>  Maybe I should start from scratch...is there a way to regenerate xorg.conf?
Yes there is. In a terminal issue the command
```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
```

Good luck and I hope this solves your issue.

---

### Post by turbotom on 2007-05-10
Sweet, I'm going to try it out now.

Unfortunately, I won't know the results until I get home from work. ;)

---

