---
title: "11.10 - GNOME Shell - delay when redrawing screen contents (e.g. after deleting word)"
date: 2011-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2011-10-16
Hello guys!

Has anybody encountered this issue? I am running GNOME Shell on 11.10 64 bit with the latest Nvidia drivers (version "current", 285 if I'm not mistaken), and there is a noticeable delay when screen contents need to get redrawn.

Case in point (and most noticeable instance for me so far): when typing in LibreOffice, or editing a long text as I have been lately, after I delete words or add new content to a line that already exists, the line does not get redrawn, meaning that I do not see where I am in the text, or what I'm about to delete next.

Workaround: press Page Up, then Page Down - or any other trick that forces a redraw of the screen contents (e.g. run the mouse cursor over the affected area).

This could be a graphics driver issue, or a Linux issue (less likely, I guess). Does anybody know how to get rid of it?

Thanks!
Matt.

---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2011-10-17
Hey everybody,

I am pretty sure I fixed my problem, and it was my own fault that I had it to begin with. Figured I'd post the solution in (the unlikely) case you have the same.

When I installed 11.10, I turned on the "Sync to Vblank" option in the NVIDIA Settings Manager. I was tinkering around with settings and forgot to turn it back off.

Turned it off now. Problem solved. (will be completely sure tonight when I work more on my text, though).

---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2011-10-20
The issue keeps persisting. I was on NVIDIA 280, as I found out. I updated to 285, but then didn't have time to see if that fixed it. Will know soon.

---

