---
title: "17.10: Getting Multiple Desktops Back!!!"
date: 2017-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Madpilot on 2017-10-28
Highly unimpressed that multiple desktops appear to have vanished entirely in 17.10. I recall they had to be enabled in previous versions with a single click somewhere, but that option appears to have vanished.

Some programs like GIMP really require multiple desktops to function in non-irritating ways.

What's the best way of getting multiple virtual desktops back in 17.10?

Thanks!

(been around forever, just been a grumpy desktop user for years now...)

---

### Post by jbicha on 2017-10-29
Ubuntu 17.10 includes workspaces by default without needing to change a setting.

Try reading the [documentation]("https://help.ubuntu.com/stable/ubuntu-help/shell-windows.html#working-with-workspaces")

The workspaces are vertical and dynamic (that means you start with 2 but there will be always be one empty workspace at the "bottom" of the stack).

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-10-29
Yes they are available but basically disabled by default in Ubuntu. To expose the virtual workspaces in gnome shell you need to hover the cursor to the upper left activity corner (this is rather  awkward since the virtual desktops appear on the right edge,-- this can be modified by an extension) But for some odd reasons the hot corner is disabled by default and to enable it you have to install gnome-tweak-tool and go to Top Bar and turn Activities OverView on. See [https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2375832](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2375832) for a screenshot.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2017-10-29
I've no longer a 17.10 gnome-shell install (a unity one only) but  as I remember you can also just click in in upper r.corner or use the super key.
The hot corner function was default disabled on purpose, maybe because Ubuntu users were used to throwing cursor up there global menus  and or the Dash.

---

### Post by Madpilot on 2017-10-29
> **jbicha said:**
> Ubuntu 17.10 includes workspaces by default without needing to change a setting.

Try reading the [documentation]("https://help.ubuntu.com/stable/ubuntu-help/shell-windows.html#working-with-workspaces")


Read the documentation? I used to write the stuff, nobody reads it. I kid, I kid, but seriously, this stuff used to be far more discoverable than recent versions of Ubuntu have made it... vertically stacked desktops with absolutely no visual indicator that they exist is way, way less discoverable when previous versions of Ubuntu had a 2x2 grid of desktops and some visual indication that A) they existed and B) what they had running in them...

Is there any way of getting a pre-17.10 desktop switcher widget back, then? I liked the four-pane-with-preview version 17.04 and slightly earlier editions had available and would like it back.

The "Activities" thing lurking most of the way off the right side of my screen is a poor substitute. Even an option to move the virtual desktop switcher in Activities over to the left so you don't have to throw the mouse all over the screen would be useful.

While I'm at it, is there any way to move the "Show All Applications" tic-tac-toe grid back up to the top of the sidebar where it belongs?

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2017-10-29
Hmm, another reason to make me glad that I don't use Gnome any more.  At the present rate of regression, maybe in 5 years, Gnome will finally catch up with Blackbox...
;)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2017-10-29
> **Madpilot said:**
> 
Is there any way of getting a pre-17.10 desktop switcher widget back, then? I liked the four-pane-with-preview version 17.04 and slightly earlier editions had available and would like it back.


You can try this [https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/484/workspace-grid/](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/484/workspace-grid/)

Alternatively You can still use unity like you did before even though it is not the default desktop. 

```
sudo apt install unity-session xserver-xorg-input-synaptics
``` 

After reboot you can log into unity.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-10-29
There surely must be a way to add the workspace management icons to the panel as they are in almost all other DEs?

I was already aware of the new 17.10 default manner of dealing with them but it is, I have to admit, a terribly clunky way to work with them, and I make a lot of use of the two I have in Xubuntu 16.04 on my main work machine.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2017-10-29
Add the gnome extension "Workspacebar" to have a workspace switcher on the panel.
In addition, if you want a static number of workspaces rather than dynamic, you can configure that option in Tweaks > Workspaces.

---

