---
title: "22.04 freezes during gfx bringup"
date: 2023-08-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 28362836a on 2023-08-02
My steps to resolve the issue:

[LIST=1]
[*]Uninstall extraneous kernels, and boot into the LTS kernel 
[*]Remove kisak-mesa PPA and purge all packages from it 
[*]Install and run the amdgpu pro helper script 
[/LIST]
 
System:
[LIST]
[*]Ryzen 5800x
[*]RX 7900 XTX
[*]Mesa 23.1 (kisak-mesa)
[*]Kernel 6.3.0
[/LIST]

Additional kernels tested: 6.3.13, 6.4.6

--- Original post ---

My system was working as expected yesterday. I installed updates before shutting down, and now today it does not boot. I was using the kisak-mesa ppa for graphics drivers, but trying vanilla drivers didn't fix the issue.

Exact symptoms: System boots successfully, input is registered, and is accessible via SSH, but monitors do not display output.

Starting in recovery mode and resuming boot fixes the issue, but the system starts without graphical acceleration. Same results when trying kernel 5.19, where graphics fail to load and fallback to llvmpipe 

DMESG output [ATTACH]292555[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-08-02
I see the kernel version: Linux version 6.4.6-060406-generic

On this CPU: 
```

[    0.313850] smpboot: CPU0: AMD Ryzen 7 5800X 8-Core Processor (family: 0x19, model: 0x21, stepping: 0x0)

```
Which you are using on which Release of Ubuntu?

I see where it failed:
```

[   13.472681] amdgpu 0000:0b:00.0: amdgpu: SMU: I'm not done with your previous command: SMN_C2PMSG_66:0x00000006 SMN_C2PMSG_82:0x00000000
[   13.472687] amdgpu 0000:0b:00.0: amdgpu: Failed to enable requested dpm features!
[   13.472690] amdgpu 0000:0b:00.0: amdgpu: Failed to setup smc hw!
[   13.472691] [drm:amdgpu_device_ip_init [amdgpu]] *ERROR* hw_init of IP block <smu> failed -62
[   13.472923] amdgpu 0000:0b:00.0: amdgpu: amdgpu_device_ip_init failed
[   13.472925] amdgpu 0000:0b:00.0: amdgpu: Fatal error during GPU init
[   13.472935] amdgpu 0000:0b:00.0: amdgpu: amdgpu: finishing device.
[   13.473099] ------------[ cut here ]------------
[   13.473099] WARNING: CPU: 3 PID: 734 at drivers/gpu/drm/amd/amdgpu/amdgpu_irq.c:599 amdgpu_irq_put+0x9c/0xb0 [amdgpu]

```
Via ssh, could you please show the output of
```

lsmod | grep 'amdcpu'
sudo grep . /sys/module/intel_idle/parameters/max_cstate
sudo grep . /sys/module/processor/parameters/max_cstate
grep 'GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT' /etc/default/grub

```

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-08-02
As a test, while at the Grub2 Boot Menu...

Press the <E> key. <Arrow-Down to the line that starts with the word "linux". <Arrow-Right> until you get to the words "quiet splash" Delete the word "quiet" and replace with "---" (3 dashes). <Arrow-Right until after "splash"...

Add a <Space> after the word "splash, then type in the text "radeon.modeset=0 amdgpu.noretry=0 amdgpu.dc=1 video=uvesafb:1920x1080-32@60,mtrr:3,ywrap,noblank " (without the quotes). Then press <Cntrl><X>. See if it boots and test.

If that works, then edit (with privileges) file /etc/default/grub, line that starts with "GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT" with the same edits. Like this:
```

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="--- splash radeon.modeset=0 amdgpu.noretry=0 amdgpu.dc=1 video=uvesafb:1920x1080-32@60,mtrr:3,ywrap,noblank"

```
Then go down more in that file to where "GRUB_GFXMODE" is located and change it to this"
```

GRUB_GFXMODE=1920x1080x32

```
Then save it, and do
```

sudo update-grub

```
Then see if the amdgpu module is loaded to the kernel
```

lsmod | grep amdgpu

```
If is is not being loaded (I believe it is or it would be another error besides it saying it failed, but just in case it's not there for some reason), then to load it do
```

sudo modprobe amdgpu
sudo echo "amdgpu" >> /etc/module-load.d/modules.conf
sudo update-initramfs -c -k all
sudo reboot

```

---

### Post by 28362836a on 2023-08-03
Thank you for your replies. After a while of being frustrated with this,  I dumped all the graphics drivers and reinstalled amdgpu pro on 5.19,  which fixed the issue.

I had previously used amdgpu pro and  decided to move away from it, because it caused frequent crashes. It  seems to have received a lot of updates since I last used it, so  hopefully the crashing issue I was experiencing is fixed. I also didn't  need a newer kernel for anything other than mesa, so I'm fine staying on  5.19 assuming the AMD supplied driver is stable in the long term.

---

### Post by MAFoElffen on 2023-08-06
> **MAFoElffen said:**
> If that works, then edit (with privileges) file /etc/default/grub, line that starts with "GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT" with the same edits. Like this:
```

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="--- splash [COLOR=#ff0000]radeon.modeset=0 amdgpu.noretry=0 amdgpu.dc=1[/COLOR] video=uvesafb:1920x1080-32@60,mtrr:3,ywrap,noblank"

```
Then go down more in that file to where "GRUB_GFXMODE" is located and change it to this"
```

GRUB_GFXMODE=1920x1080x32

```
Then save it, and do
```

sudo update-grub

```
Then see if the amdgpu module is loaded to the kernel
```

lsmod | grep amdgpu

```
[COLOR=#ff0000]If is is not being loaded [/COLOR](I believe it is or it would be another error besides it saying it failed, but just in case it's not there for some reason), [COLOR=#ff0000]then to load it, do[/COLOR]
```

sudo modprobe amdgpu   ## Load the amdgpu kernel module
sudo echo "amdgpu" >> /etc/module-load.d/modules.conf  ## Add that module to the list of loaded modules
sudo update-initramfs -c -k all  ## update the ram images to include booting with the module loaded
sudo reboot  ## reboot to test...

```
You read that right? If there is no output from lsmod, which means list the "loaded modules" with the filter of "amdgpu"... Then it is not being loaded (no output), then do the commands below that... which starts out with "modprobe amdgpu"... which tells it t load the kernel amdgpu module... 

But that will not make that persistent over a boot until you do the rest... meaning putting it into the module list (so that it will be added during a kernel update, and to build the boot ram/flash image (initramfs).

The added boot parameters in the grub defaults file allow the opensource amdgpu module to load and exist with the correct kernel parameters, and the correct sysfs settings. To change this without doing that would require you to have to hard-code some other files (every time there is a kernel update), or to rebuild the kernel with those options. That is not a path you want to take. Do not just do one fix, without the other. They go together.

Did you go though those steps?

If you did and it failed, then check the system.log for the errors, which would most likely say (for some reason) that the firmware for the module is missing. That is a rare error, but is easy to fix.

EDIT: The above might sound complex. It is supposed to work automatically, like nouveau for nVidia, but sometimes it doesn't work that way and needs some extra help. That is why you need to check with lsmod first to see if it loaded automatically, or if it needs help to do that...

---

### Post by 28362836a on 2023-08-06
Apologies, I should have clarified earlier. I had already reverted to amdgpu pro before I read your replies to this thread. My mistake for not updating the post as soon as I had resolved the issue.

(Un)fortunately, by that point everything was working as expected, so lsmod would definitely have shown that the modules were properly loaded. My best guess for what the original issue was is that the most recent release from kisak-mesa had introduced a breaking change.

Ironically, LTS kernel 6.2 was released just after this, and none of the amdgpu dkms modules from either package will build on it :mad: so I'm still on 5.19 for now. I've attached the dkms build log for kernel 6.2 in case you have any insight as to how to fix the failing build.

---

