---
title: "10.10 Nautilus Elementary Toolbar Editor Gone"
date: 2010-10-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MooseDog on 2010-10-11
title says it all.

upgrade was flawless 'cept for this one glitch.

ppa w/in software sources is updated and responding properly,

any other instances of this out there?  suggested solutions?  thx.

:confused: :confused: :confused:

---

### Post by ammonkey on 2010-10-12
Hello,

nautilus-elementary is not correctly installed, you still have the old nautilus interface.

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:am-monkeyd/nautilus-elementary-ppa
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
nautilus -q

---

### Post by MooseDog on 2010-10-12
> **ammonkey said:**
> Hello,

nautilus-elementary is not correctly installed, you still have the old nautilus interface.

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:am-monkeyd/nautilus-elementary-ppa
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
nautilus -q

perfect!

just so anyone wandering through here knows, this solution was provided by the developer.  gratitude for some excellent support.

it may also help someone to know this small user error on my end:  one of my repositories was not updated to a maverick version, and apt-get update was throwing out an error.  which was apparently mucking up something, as nautilus was indeed not upgrading properly.

:popcorn: and beer on me!

---

### Post by cmcanulty on 2010-11-01
I did the suggested but still no toolbar editor using 10.1o please help solve this bug. I can't give a screenshot of edit menu as when I click on the screenshot it closes the edit menu.

---

