---
title: "10.10 &amp; 10.04 mouse freeze issues"
date: 2010-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by shavo0915 on 2010-10-13
Hey guys first of all thanks for reading. Ive been having a reoccurring problem in which my mouse stops working as soon as i boot into my system. It works fine when I'm logging in and then freezes up when I start to move it.I can confirm its not a hardware issue as everything works fine on my windows partition. I love Ubuntu and would use it as my main OS until this annoying problem started happening. oh and my keyboard works fine its just my mouse that doesn't seem to be working.

---

### Post by shavo0915 on 2010-10-14
is anyone else at least experiencing this issue?

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-14
What kind of a mouse is it?

---

### Post by shavo0915 on 2010-10-14
thanks for the reply its a Logitech LS1 Laser Mouse.

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-14
Does it work if you unplug it and then plug it back in? This is not a solution, but a further diagnostic measure.

Also, could you please attach the output of the command 'lsusb' from terminal (Applications->Accessories->Terminal)?

Are you using a laptop or a desktop computer?

---

### Post by shavo0915 on 2010-10-14
plugin it out and then back in does nothing. Im using it on a Desktop

Bus 004 Device 003: ID 093a:2620 Pixart Imaging, Inc. 
Bus 004 Device 002: ID 046d:c062 Logitech, Inc. 
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 002: ID 045e:00dd Microsoft Corp. Comfort Curve Keyboard 2000 V1.0
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-14
Just to clarify, you do see the pointer even when you can't move the it?

Also, the mouse will work until you log in? (eg. if you stay at the log-in screen and play around with it, it will keep working).

Can you create a new user and log in as that user just to see if the same thing happens?

This is to rule out the possibility that it's a problem with your user settings.

---

### Post by shavo0915 on 2010-10-14
I played with the mouse at login and apparently the same thing happens it just takes longer. and the cursor is visible it just wont move and i went ahead and created two new accounts and the same thing happened, the mouse stopped working and i also did notice that my keyboard stopped working or lagged for a couple of seconds also.

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-14
Can you tell me more about your computer? Is it very new?

In such a case, it could be a kernel issue. Does the advice offered in [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=9427926&postcount=1") do the trick for you?

edit: The advice in the post is slightly lacking, after editing the file /etc/default/grub you should do a sudo update-grub for the changes to take effect.

---

### Post by shavo0915 on 2010-10-14
I custom built this computer about 2 years ago and it seems as if that thread worked :-) except for the fact that there's no splash screen now the mouse and keyboard seem to be working fine.

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-15
Working mouse trumps splash screen? :) Feel free to mark this thread 'solved'.

If you want to ensure this stuff works in a newer release by default, you should probably file a bug report against the kernel.

To do this, type 'ubuntu-bug linux' in the Terminal.

Let me know if you want to further investigate or to attempt fixing the splash screen.

---

### Post by shavo0915 on 2010-10-15
ha ha thanks although i did notice a new bug after i leave the computer inactive for a while the computer freezes :-(

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-15
Sorry to hear that.

If you're sure it's not a problem with the hardware or BIOS, you could try a LiveCD for another system like Debian, Fedora or Arch to rule out Ubuntu-specific nature of the problem.

Regardless, I'd now recommend submitting a bug report for the kernel. That way, if you do really enjoy Ubuntu, you may be able to get the problem fixed for the next release (only six months away).

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2010-10-18
One last idea, I stumbled on [this post]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=5353658&postcount=1") just a moment ago. You could give it a try to see if you'd get a working mouse without the system crashing.

edit: Notice this is for an older version of Ubuntu, so instead of editing /boot/grub/menu.lst you now edit /etc/default/grub

---

### Post by sfranzyshen on 2010-11-21
try adding "clocksource=jiffies nolapic_timers" to the kernel command line
parameter.

sudo pico /etc/default/grub

change

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash"

to

GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT="quiet splash nolapci_timer clocksource=jiffies"

save changes

sudo update-grub

reboot


sfranzyshen

---

### Post by docmojo on 2011-05-09
Hi guys, I am a novice in these technical issues...

But faced this mouse freeze prob for a few days... Just struck me that, I had installed ClamAV prior to this glitch... So removed it from the system, and the problem seems to have disappeared... 

Do you'll have it installed too?

---

### Post by ThatCoolGuy220 on 2011-05-09
HI
Sorry for interrupting but same happned to a friend using puppy on a Desktop

it could be mouse issues

try using another mouse

---

