---
title: ".exe's not working under wine"
date: 2006-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Wafflesomd on 2006-11-05
So I have just isntalled wine under ubuntu dapper 32, I switched from 64 becuase it was making me mad.

But still, none of my .exe's luanch.

"could not display (blah blah blah file name.exe)"

It's the same I got before I installed wine!

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-11-05
Have you run **winecfg**? Have you asked for those .exes to be run with Wine?

---

### Post by Wafflesomd on 2006-11-05
Ok, I ran winecfg.

Where do I tell it to run those .exe's?

Other than that, it still does it.

---

### Post by taurus on 2006-11-05
Something like this from a terminal!!!

```
wine <wherever_the_.exe_program_is_located>
```

---

### Post by Wafflesomd on 2006-11-05
You dont think I tried that?

Thanks for the immature "!!!!"

---

### Post by hikaricore on 2006-11-06
> **Wafflesomd said:**
> You dont think I tried that?

Thanks for the immature "!!!!"

They're trying to help you...

If you want help you're going to have to be more clear about the issue at hand.

* First, what error messages are you getting when you try to run from the directory your application is in:

```
wine applicationname.exe
```

Where applicationname.exe is the actual name of the exe file you're trying to run. (please run this from a terminal window which you should be able to access from your Applications/Accessories assuming you're running Ubuntu with gnome)   It will either launch your application in a window (or a virtual desktop depending on your settings) or spit out a horrible bunch of junk, which may seem meaningless to you but sometimes can help others in the forum sort something out about the problem.

* Second what Application(s) are you trying to run?  Have you checked out the information on the WineApp Database for your specific programs?  [http://appdb.winehq.org/]("http://appdb.winehq.org/")  The search bar is down the page on the right, type in a general name (not a version) of the application you need to run and see if other users are having trouble or have provided info to help you.

* Third if your application is using Direct3D or another mostly unsupported type of rendering, you may have trouble, see if you can run it in OpenGL mode (check your software provider's website for info).

*** Fourth Please be nice to other users especially the forum admins.  They don't have to help you but they do because it is an enjoyable experience offering support to others just out of the goodness of their hearts.**

Please post as much info as  you possibly can, and everyone who can will do their best to assist you.

Thanks,

--Aaron

---

### Post by Wafflesomd on 2006-11-06
Sry, It's hard to understand things when just looking at type.

Anyways, it started working, for no reason at all.

I didnt even cahnge anything.

---

