---
title: "9.10 unable to boot"
date: 2009-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Muscovy on 2009-11-12
I turned on my computer, watched the splash screen, the logo disappeared, then I hung there. Eventually I powered off, and it happened again. I booted a live cd to take a look, and under "places", my 9.10 partition does not show, though it shows in GParted and ls /dev/.
  How can I get it booting again, or at least recover my data?

  I haven't done anything that makes sense for this to happen.

---

### Post by Muscovy on 2009-11-12
I restarted the live cd, and grub gave a no partition error.
  This happened once before, about 2 days after installing Karmic. A blank partition and a Fedora partition randomly were only viewable through gparted, then on reboot they became blank space.
  I'm quite disappointed. Are there other cases of this? Is it specifically a grub2 thing?

---

### Post by Muscovy on 2009-11-12
Oh yay! For completeness, I checked using an old 9.04 cd as well, and I can mount the drive just fine. I'm copying my data onto the external drive, then I'll see what to do next.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-12
This sounds, to me, like it is some kind of conflict with 9.10 and you hardware.

Was this a clean install or an upgrade?

---

### Post by Muscovy on 2009-11-14
Clean install.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-14
i think we better look into this a little deeper.  Run this script;

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1291280)

And post the results.  Run it from your 9.04 LiveCD would probably be best.

---

### Post by williejones on 2009-11-14
Maybe your disk is corrupted.  Since you have backed your data, try downloading and
burning another disk.

---

### Post by williejones on 2009-11-14
Hey Ranch Hand.  How's it going?  I did not konw you were helping, so I will set back and learn.

Later

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-14
Oh, i do not know about that.  I never did ask if he ran the md5sum on the ISO.

Geeze.  I hope so.

---

### Post by williejones on 2009-11-14
Who runs the check sum?  You expect it to work.  ;)

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-14
I admit that I never worried about it until about April this year for that very reason.

We were on dial up an I was buying disks.  It was quicker.

---

