---
title: "Novice: crontab - missing something basic"
date: 2008-07-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ubunuub on 2008-07-02
Hi...Sorry for asking this, but I'm thinking there's something basic that I'm just not getting.

Trying to backup a mysql database using crontab. But I get the "bad minute" error. All the crontab guides on the net, and this forum, make me wonder if I'm missing something that's staring me in the face. 

So again, my apologies in advance. :)

$ cd ~/

$ nano myscript
#!/bin/sh
mysqldump --user=root --password=password mydatabase > /home/me/mydatabase.sql

$ sudo chmod 777 myscript (777 just for testing)

$ ./myscript (this works)

$ crontab -r
$ crontab -e
# m h dom mon dow command
0 1 * * * /home/me/myscript

On saving, I get:
no crontab for me - using an empty one
crontab: installing new crontab

$ crontab -l
# m h  dom mon dow   command
0 1 * * * /home/me/myscript

$ crontab /home/me/myscript

This gives:
"/home/me/myscript":1: bad minute
errors in crontab file, can't install.

------------

So yeah, I'm missing something obvious. I've been searching but I'm just getting more confused by conflicting suggestions.

Hopefully someone here can help this poor, tired, novice.

TIA :)

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2008-07-02
First, you should have a crontab (individual crontab file) whose name is your user name. You would not edit this directly, but it would help to see if it is there:

sudo ls -l /var/spool/cron/crontabs

If your username is fred, then you should see 

-rw------- 1 fred crontab 231 2008-06-11 09:06 fred

This should be the contents, if you've never entered any data into it.

# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/tmp/crontab.qekcb5/crontab installed on Wed Jun 11 09:06:28 2008)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
# m h  dom mon dow   command

If this file does not exist, that could be the source of your problem. You can certainly put a replacement crontab "out there" using sudo and your favorite text editor; suggest starting with a blank, and then add your stuff with crontab -e.

---

### Post by ubunuub on 2008-07-02
Hi. That file exists:

$ sudo ls -l /var/spool/cron/crontabs
-rw------- 1 me crontab 276 2008-07-02 11:21 me

$ sudo nano /var/spool/cron/crontabs/me
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE - edit the master and reinstall.
# (/tmp/crontab.DIyTVa/crontab installed on Wed Jul  2 11:21:59 2008)
# (Cron version -- $Id: crontab.c,v 2.13 1994/01/17 03:20:37 vixie Exp $)
# m h  dom mon dow   command
0 1 * * * /home/me/myscript

Anything else I should be looking at?

TIA

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2008-07-03
First, enter env | grep EDITOR. Unless you've set this, I bet crontab -e is coming up using vi as default. I take it you'd like to use nano. If so, then on a temporary basis enter

EDITOR=nano

(When everything works, you can add this to .bashrc later on.)

If you crontab -e and enter

* *   *   *   *    echo "This is a test."

and then exit, does this work?

Check your mail (if installed), and don't forget to remove the line.

If mail is not installed, then change the line to touch please_delete_me,

and see the timestamps change on that file, please_delete_me .

Don't forget to remove whatever line you put in, when you've proven this out.

---

### Post by mike2357 on 2008-07-03
```
$ crontab -e
# m h dom mon dow command
0 1 * * * /home/me/myscript

On saving, I get:
no crontab for me - using an empty one
crontab: installing new crontab

$ crontab -l
# m h dom mon dow command
0 1 * * * /home/me/myscript

$ crontab /home/me/myscript

This gives:
"/home/me/myscript":1: bad minute
errors in crontab file, can't install.
```

Seeing the above made me think you may be confusing different cron commands.

Your use of "crontab -r", "crontab -e" and "crontab -l" appear to be correct.  Since you successfully ran "crontab -e", your crontab file was loaded.  Running "crontab -l" confirmed it.

However, "crontab /home/my/myscript" is not correct.  "crontab /home/my/scirpt" means to load a cron configuration file, with the hour/minute/day/etc. particulars in it.  You appear to to be passing the script you want cron to run.

In other words, the following two commands accomplish nothing (although understanding it may be helpful):

crontab -l > cron.configfile
crontab cron.configfile

When you ran "crontab /home/my/myscript", since the script didn't contain hour/minute/day information, crontab sent you back an error.  However, I don't think running the command hurt anything.

If you're still having issues, then it may be the contents of myscript rather than how you've set up cron.

When I'm debugging cron commands, I generally send output to a file that I can look at later, as follows:
0 1 * * * /home/me/myscript > OUT_CRON 2>&1

This means send output and error messages to a file in OUT_CRON in your home directory.

---

### Post by ubunuub on 2008-07-04
OK, thanks. That bit about:
$ crontab /home/me/myscript

was mentioned as a way to test the cron job. Guess the site was mistaken. 

Turns out I had it right all along but I was testing things wrong! LOL. Lesson learned.

Thanks all!

---

### Post by cmnorton on 2008-07-05
> **ubunuub said:**
> OK, thanks. That bit about:
$ crontab /home/me/myscript

was mentioned as a way to test the cron job. Guess the site was mistaken. 

Turns out I had it right all along but I was testing things wrong! LOL. Lesson learned.

Thanks all!


That syntax looks okay to me. I just find the direct editing method easier.

Edit:
------
If myscript is a copy of your crontab, the syntax is fine. If myscript is a script to be called by the crontab, the syntax is wrong, as mike2357 noted.

If myscript is

---

