---
title: "11.04 Evolution IMAP Connection Error"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by beecee77 on 2011-05-02
Hi

Just upgraded to Ubuntu 11.04 - from 10.10, and now experiencing connection problems with Evolution connecting to my IMAP Microsoft Mail Server.

This was working, I was successfully receiving and sending mail via my IMAP setup in Evolution.  Since the upgrade to 11.04, it stopped working with the error:

"Error while Refreshing folder "INBOX".   You must be working online to complete this operation."

I check to see if it's in online mode, and it is.  I set evolution to work in offline mode.  Then I set it back to "online mode" and I get the error:

"Error while Reconnecting to 'IMAP Server mail.foo.blah.de.bla".  Could not connect to mail.foo.blah.de.bla: Connection Refused"

I try:

telnet mail.foo.blah.de.bla 143

and this is successful.

I have also inserted the host and ip in /etc/hosts, just in case.

I closed evolution and removed:

~beecee/.cache/evolution

And re-ran evolution - still no good.

I've tried removing my IMAP account configuration, and recreating it from scratch, still no good.

Evolution seems to be the only mail program I've been able to get working with Microsoft Exchange 2007.  With Ubuntu 11.04 upgrade, it now seems to be broken.  

Alternatively, if you have a better mail client that definitely does work with Exchange 2007, suggestions welcome.

Thanks

Belinda

---

### Post by abraxxa on 2011-05-02
Good to read that I'm not the only one with this problem.
I've installed 11.04 64bit, not updated but used my 10.10 home partition.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-05-02
I have just set up 11.04 system Evolution IMAP connections to an Exchange 2003 system as well as an Exchange 2007 system and it works fine for me.

---

### Post by beecee77 on 2011-05-02
> **dcstar said:**
> I have just set up 11.04 system Evolution IMAP connections to an Exchange 2003 system as well as an Exchange 2007 system and it works fine for me.


Is that a fresh/clean install of 11.04?  Or upgraded?

---

### Post by wykedengel on 2011-05-02
I am having the same problem. I upgraded from 11.04 beta 2. It has me scratching my head.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-05-04
> **beecee77 said:**
> Is that a fresh/clean install of 11.04?  Or upgraded?

It is a fresh 64-bit install inside a VMware Player VM on a 10.04 host.

It is only a test install, I am not silly enough to use a new Ubuntu release until at least 2 months have passed since the official release date.

---

### Post by Longinus00 on 2011-05-04
Are you guys using a proxy? Proxy support with IMAP appears to be busted in natty evolution.

---

### Post by beecee77 on 2011-05-04
> **dcstar said:**
> It is a fresh 64-bit install inside a VMware Player VM on a 10.04 host.

It is only a test install, I am not silly enough to use a new Ubuntu release until at least 2 months have passed since the official release date.


Yes, now I'm kicking myself...

---

### Post by beecee77 on 2011-05-04
> **Longinus00 said:**
> Are you guys using a proxy? Proxy support with IMAP appears to be busted in natty evolution.

No proxy to connect to the IMAP server - direct connection.

---

### Post by sakthi on 2011-05-04
I am also having the same issue. Only evolution was able to connect in Ubuntu 10.04 now evolution when it starts says checking for new mail and it stalls there.....I can not even exit it. I have to kill the program.

Somebody please help us.

---

### Post by funky_D on 2011-05-05
god damn, i don't have proxy for evolution! this is bad! unhappy moment when i did the upgrade!:mad:

---

### Post by beecee77 on 2011-05-06
Continuing to torture myself... I did a fresh install of Ubuntu 11.04 - not an upgrade.

Evolution worked straight away!

Then... around 30 mins later, it's doing exactly the same thing.  Timeout to the IMAP server, blah de blah.

Then when I tried to login to my email via Citrix, I went to download and reinstall the same citrix receiver 11.100 that was working previously... and surprise surprise, the deb package for citrix doesn't want to install on Natty with a bunch of errors.

So I'm giving up for now - going back to 10.10.  Natty is doing my head in.

---

### Post by XPectIT on 2011-05-09
The same problem is here.

I updated from 10.04 to 11.04 and Evolution stopped working.
Manually connection with "telnet server.name 143" works fine. 

The imap-Server is no exchange but dovecot on a debianserver.

---

### Post by sakthi on 2011-05-11
Now I am able to receive messages but not able to send it! Says connection refused....

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-05-11
I have similar problem, and created my own thread, though NONE has bothered responding!

I have used Ubuntu since 8.04 and first Outlook, until that stopped working in 9.10, then Evolution.  When I did the upgrade mail works, and some of Calendar, but contacts fails all the time.  I use Google IMAP for a private domain.

Calendar accounts work when they feel like it and sometimes need deleting and restarting

It is beyond frustrating now as a sole trader I am now loosing customers as I can't contact anyone or set meetings.  All since the upgrade to 11.04!

I use 5 different accounts - all Google IMAP hosted for eMail
I sync 6 accounts for Calendar - all Google and
2 Accounts for Contacts, all Google

PS I have a bug report out with Launchpad too.  Again no response!:confused:

---

### Post by beecee77 on 2011-05-11
have you tried 11.04 install from scratch, not an upgrade?

mine worked at first, then failed later, but maybe you might have more luck with a fresh install?

I've gone back to Ubuntu 10.10 (fresh install), evolution is working again.  






> **Jonners59 said:**
> I have similar problem, and created my own thread, though NONE has bothered responding!

I have used Ubuntu since 8.04 and first Outlook, until that stopped working in 9.10, then Evolution.  When I did the upgrade mail works, and some of Calendar, but contacts fails all the time.  I use Google IMAP for a private domain.

Calendar accounts work when they feel like it and sometimes need deleting and restarting

It is beyond frustrating now as a sole trader I am now loosing customers as I can't contact anyone or set meetings.  All since the upgrade to 11.04!

I use 5 different accounts - all Google IMAP hosted for eMail
I sync 6 accounts for Calendar - all Google and
2 Accounts for Contacts, all Google

PS I have a bug report out with Launchpad too.  Again no response!:confused:

---

### Post by csfera on 2011-05-12
same issue here, I try to connect to an exchange server after 1 upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04. Evolution even not prompts for my (windows) password. In the maverick distro I had evolution 2.30.3, in natty I have 2.32.2. Any help are welcome.
receiving mail configuration
Server: exchange.imap.server:993
Username: domain\user
use secure connection: SSL
auth. type: password

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-05-12
> **beecee77 said:**
> have you tried 11.04 install from scratch, not an upgrade?

mine worked at first, then failed later, but maybe you might have more luck with a fresh install?

I've gone back to Ubuntu 10.10 (fresh install), evolution is working again.

Not quite.  On the 32-bit laptop it failed after 24hrs due to Unity so I had to do a scratch build, but I used my 10.10 CD.  I do not want to go through a new build.  There is a fundamental issue with this build and Evolution.  I have seen threads and websites all over with this problem and no solution.  I even found a developer site with a patch - I could not get it to work - who states that the patch was for the 11.04 beta release whilst he fixes the problem!!!!!

[http://www.ianbmacdonald.com/wordpress/2011/04/07/natty-narwhal-google-contacts-workaround](http://www.ianbmacdonald.com/wordpress/2011/04/07/natty-narwhal-google-contacts-workaround)

I am a little concerned that we do not have developers or being fare, apparent all over this...

PS.  My thread is here.
[HTML]http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1752737[/HTML]

---

### Post by sakthi on 2011-05-13
> **beecee77 said:**
> have you tried 11.04 install from scratch, not an upgrade?



Mine is a fresh installation.....

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-05-13
> **sakthi said:**
> Mine is a fresh installation.....
Have you got the same problem?  It certanly seems common when I search the web, though my thread seems to be the only one specific to this level of detail - Contacts and Calendar.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2011-05-14
> **Jonners59 said:**
> Have you got the same problem?  It certanly seems common when I search the web, though my thread seems to be the only one specific to this level of detail - Contacts and Calendar.

IMAP has absolutely nothing to do with Evolution Contacts and Calendar, it is only e-mail messages.

---

### Post by XPectIT on 2011-05-14
I've also searched a little bit.

In wireshark there are no packets going out of the system. Not even a dns lookup for the right ip-address, thats strange. A telnet to port 25, 110 or 143 is connecting fine. With all the packets shown in wireshark.

I purged the evolution installation, removed manually all the config files I could find (or better said "find" could find).

I installed evolution from the packetsystem new, and still it is not going.


I installed thunderbird:
In the configuration process, it tests the connection and recommends the right settings (imap with tls and password authentication), and packets are shown in wireshark (pop, imap and smtp connects). 
After the configuration is finished, thunderbird shows the same miserable behavior as evolution. No packets and no reachable mailaccount.

To do a new install is simply not an option, there is to much configutation-time inside this computer already.

I am not amused.

---

### Post by XPectIT on 2011-05-14
The problem is solved for me.

There was a systemwide socks-proxy configured, but no be me! (System -> Preferences -> Network Proxy-> socks: localhost:9050)
That explaines why no tcp packets were shown. 

And because there is no socks-proxy running on my maschine, it could not connect. 
Now every thing works fine with evolution and thunderbird again.

Maybe this helps others.

I'm still not amused but some what delighted.

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-05-14
> **dcstar said:**
> IMAP has absolutely nothing to do with Evolution Contacts and Calendar, it is only e-mail messages.
Maybe, but suggestions have been coming in to use IMAp to resolve, however I have been using it all along.

I have now had it confirmed that this is a bug and was known about to some extent before release.  The bug is in "the system" for high priority fix.

---

### Post by sakthi on 2011-05-19
Sorry duplicate post

---

### Post by sakthi on 2011-05-19
Any update on this problem? I am still having the same problem. Now not able to receive and send mails. Evolution in the previous version of Ubuntu are still working perfectly though....

---

### Post by Worros on 2011-05-19
I'll add a me too on this.

Evolution connecting via IMAP to an Exchange 2003 server.

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-05-19
I think you need to go into the bug reporting and add your me too to the outstanding bugs.  This makes the guys aware that it is not a one off and the volume of users it is affecting.

This is a similar bug, there is one specifically for the IMAP/Exchange issue if I recall.
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+s...er/+bug/755043]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/evolution-data-server/+bug/755043")

---

### Post by bjordan555 on 2011-06-27
I can confirm this bug on 3 Ubuntu Natty systems, two amd64 and one ppc. Evolution configured with same additional packages on each system.  All connections to the Exchange 2007 IMAP server fails with "LOGIN failed", and refreshing folders results in the same errors described above.  Tested same configuration using Thunderbird on these systems, and it fails with similar issues.  I am able to ping the server, and telnet into it on port 993.  I couldn't get an echo at the terminal through telnet, but my next steps will be to perform a manual session with directly with the server.  

Interestingly, a fresh install of Natty today onto a virtual machine, with stock evolution configuration, can connect just fine. My guess is that there is some change to either i) SSL or ii) IMAP support resulting from another package installation that is interfering with proper communication.  Any guesses as to what this could be?  Empathy?  I do not have any known proxy servers configured on my machine, and a check in the network proxy settings show a "Direct Connection" configuration. 

I'll report back here.

---

### Post by bjordan555 on 2011-06-27
I've now completely removed evolution, empathy, thunderbird, and have deleted the directories for each, following [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159407](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=159407) for evolution.  I'll test telnet and add packages one by one from here.

---

### Post by funky_D on 2011-10-10
this shows the importance of supporting the existing versions.
i am going mac in a couple of weeks.. tired of bug's not fixed..

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-10-11
Yes, driving me mad too, but I like my Ubuntu in so many other ways, so not switching over yet.  I have all sorts of probs with the IMAP, Evolution, gmail/google Apps integration which is so odd considering Google use Linux and are less inclined to Microsoft!!!

Personally, my ideal would be Outlook, IMAP and gmail/Google Apps on my Ubuntu....  I do like Outlook, I must say, just don't like MS.

I have to keep my browser open to do calendar and I have to create a new offline addressbook.  Not good.:(

---

### Post by fadiof on 2011-10-17
Maybe this might still help anybody. 
I was struggling with the same issue, not only at the upgrade to 11.04 (a few months ago) but also today at the upgrade to 11.10.

In my case it was the SOCKS-entry in my Network-Proxy-Settings menu. I just got rid of this entry, applied the settings and mailing works fine again.

Regards!

---

### Post by Jonners59 on 2011-10-17
For me 11.04 seems to have fixed my IMAP issue, though I have not tried with MS Outlook.  That shall be interesting!

---

### Post by gillk on 2011-10-17
I found a very simple solution without changing system settings:

In Evolution, go to Edit | Preferences | Network Preferences

Change Proxy Settings to "Direct connection to the Internet"

---

### Post by fadiof on 2011-10-19
> **gillk said:**
> I found a very simple solution without changing system settings:

In Evolution, go to Edit | Preferences | Network Preferences

Change Proxy Settings to "Direct connection to the Internet"


For me, this was not the solution. I had to leave the SOCKS entry empty, this was the only solution that helped me.

---

### Post by dernier_recours on 2012-01-17
> **fadiof said:**
> For me, this was not the solution. I had to leave the SOCKS entry empty, this was the only solution that helped me.

fadiof,

Same problem here. Where exactly is this "SOCKS" field? In Evolution? In Ubuntu configuration?

Thanks!

---

### Post by zelalem on 2013-01-17
Hi guys if you are behind proxy then removing the socks entry from proxy setting would save your life.

Thanks guys for your support.

---

