---
title: "New 11.04 install hangs after the splash screen"
date: 2011-06-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by haloony on 2011-06-14
Hey All,

Up until now I had been running Maverick perfectly but recently ran into some problems that I was to lazy to fix. I decided that it was time to upgrade to Natty. I created an install cd and simply installed over my previous ubuntu install. When I fired up Natty for the first time, I saw the purple splash screen with those loading dots and then it hangs on a blank screen with a blinking cursor. If, however, I choose recovery mode from grub and then choose "resume normal boot"(or something like that) I am able to boot into Natty fine. I am not sure how to diagnose what is causing my booting problems and what recovery mode is circumventing.

Let me explain my set-up in case it is relevant. For my last few install, including this one, I choose a command line system install. When I boot for the first time, I have no gui; just a console. I then install xinit and fluxbox and fire up my gui. I also have no login manager so I use a simple text login. In the past, when things are working, after the ubuntu splash screen, I get a blank screen with a blinking cursor but it only blinks for ~2 seconds and then I get a login prompt. I also have an XP install on another partition of the same drive. Not sure if any of this is relevant but just in case.

Any suggestions would be great.

Thanks,
Hal

---

### Post by haloony on 2011-06-15
I have learned that recovery mode circumvents all start-up scripts. Seemingly, I am not able to do a normal start-up because there is some offending start-up script that is causing ubuntu to hang. I still do not know which start-up script is the culprit. Can anyone help me figure out which script is the problem and how to get it out of the way.

Let me know if I need to most more information.

Thanks,
Hal

---

