---
title: "10.04: Changing login screen?"
date: 2010-12-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t0p on 2010-12-13
When I boot my computer (running 10.04) the login screen gives me a choice from a list of user names: I can log in as "t0p" (my user name) or as "others".

I don't like my computer telling anyone passing by that there is a user named "t0p" on the machine.  How can I revert to the good ol' days, when Ubuntu demanded I actually type in my user name?  ie a field for user name and another field for password?

---

### Post by nolag on 2010-12-13
> **t0p said:**
> When I boot my computer (running 10.04) the login screen gives me a choice from a list of user names: I can log in as "t0p" (my user name) or as "others".
 
I don't like my computer telling anyone passing by that there is a user named "t0p" on the machine. How can I revert to the good ol' days, when Ubuntu demanded I actually type in my user name? ie a field for user name and another field for password?
 
I think ubuntu tweak has a thing for that. If not then there is a login manager (I can't remember where) that might do it. I will double check when I get home today and correct myself if I am mistaken.

---

### Post by t0p on 2010-12-17
a bump in the night (actually where I am is 14:27, which isn't actually "night" - but you know what I mean... don't you?)

---

### Post by mendhak on 2010-12-17
Hi, have a look here:

[http://linux.aldeby.org/hide-user-list-in-ubuntu-lucid-10-04-login.html](http://linux.aldeby.org/hide-user-list-in-ubuntu-lucid-10-04-login.html)

Copy paste:

> 
to **disable the user list**
 press ALT+F2 and type
 gksu gconf-editor then navigate to
 /apps/gdm/simple-greeter and tick ***disable user list***
****

---

