---
title: "9.4 or 9.10?"
date: 2009-12-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TruePurple on 2009-12-04
Someone in chat said that v9.10 had alot of issues still and was talking about reverting to 9.4

I am having trouble finding the update pages for ubuntu versions. But even if I could find it, it might not mean much to it.

For a linux newbie, would someone please break down the pros and cons of each and what you would recommend.

---

### Post by the_waka on 2009-12-05
i won't give an exaustive list, but some of the pros are:
1) improved hardware compatiblity/detection
2)looks prettier :)
3)no more needing to install software from a cd- just go to the software center. it's ALL there, including wine.
4)faster bootup (they slimlined the boot sequence. Mine starts up in a solid 7 seconds)
5)auto desktop notifications (small semi-transparent popups that tell you important stuff, like what song changed, when you successfully connected to a network, when you receive an IM, etc.)


So in other words, it's bigger, stronger, faster, and prettier. What's not to like? So far, i haven't found any gripes when i upgraded from 9.04 to 9.10  :D

---

### Post by gordong11 on 2009-12-05
9.10 is much much better, everything works fine for me. It's plain and simple no comparison.

Start with a clean install and change to ext4 filesystem if you can.

---

### Post by MelDJ on 2009-12-05
IMHO wait for 10.04. less hassle in upgrading twice

---

### Post by lisati on 2009-12-05
[9.**_0_**4]("https://help.ubuntu.com/9.04/about-ubuntu/C/version-numbers.html") works well for me.

---

### Post by Lyleb on 2009-12-05
I tried 9.10, had the worst experience in the past 10 years of using Linux. Very unstable. Computer would freeze multiple times per day. When searching for fixes, only found a lot of: Try this, maybe this will work, could be this, no firm recommendations. I now have all my computers back with 9.04 and I'm happy again.

---

### Post by robbielink on 2009-12-05
It depends on what hardware you're running. I have an old Compaq Presario laptop that 9.10 runs great on. But my desktop with twice as much memory and faster processor is a Dell Dimension and 9.10 won't run on it at all. I've got it working with 9.04 - found an 8.10 CD and upgraded from there. I don't see where you can download anything but 9.10 or 8.04, though.

---

### Post by Lyleb on 2009-12-05
> **robbielink said:**
> It depends on what hardware you're running. I have an old Compaq Presario laptop that 9.10 runs great on. But my desktop with twice as much memory and faster processor is a Dell Dimension and 9.10 won't run on it at all. I've got it working with 9.04 - found an 8.10 CD and upgraded from there. I don't see where you can download anything but 9.10 or 8.04, though.

I just downloaded 9.04 from here the day before yesterday.

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/)

---

### Post by robbielink on 2009-12-05
> **Lyleb said:**
> I just downloaded 9.04 from here the day before yesterday.

[http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/](http://releases.ubuntu.com/9.04/)

yes - I just found that today, too.

---

### Post by paradigm2 on 2009-12-05
I recommend 9.10.  

-Default ext4 filesystem
-Built in support for encrypting your /home at install time.
-Newer application defaults
-Newer default kernel

Any issues with 9.10 should get worked out over time through updates.

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-12-05
I would (and do) try 9.10 first. If it works well on your hardware then I think it's a superior system. But if you have serious issues that appear to be hardware-related (especially KernelOops pop-ups or frequent random freezes), then 9.04 is probably a better bet for now.

---

### Post by gordong11 on 2009-12-06
> **Lyleb said:**
> I tried 9.10, had the worst experience in the past 10 years of using Linux. Very unstable. Computer would freeze multiple times per day. When searching for fixes, only found a lot of: Try this, maybe this will work, could be this, no firm recommendations. I now have all my computers back with 9.04 and I'm happy again.

I bet it was the beta not the fnal realease. 9.10 has never once froze, crashed or slowed. the beta and rc, now that was a different story.

I do polymorphic computations and video editing at the same time, all the time and never had 1 crash or freeze. i find your situation this hard to believe, unless it was an app issue with 9.10, not the fault of ubuntu.

---

### Post by KaoriKandiez on 2009-12-06
9.10 is amazing. Hasn't froze or even LAGGED once since I installed it, and I have been running apps like Photoshop CS4, Halo, Rakion, Firefox (youtubes and such), qBittorent, and Pidgin (yahoo, hotmail, aim). It also works incredibly well on my Laptop running a *single core Pentium 4 2.8ghz & 1gb RAM, *runs much better then XP pro did on it. 

Not too many complaints so far :p

Oh, and the graphics card on my laptop running my 2nd Ubuntu Karmic Koala installation has a nvidea 6200 A-LE 512mb and I can run it at max visual effects just fine.

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2009-12-06
Works awesome as long as you're not using wubi :p

---

### Post by michaelzap on 2009-12-06
> **gordong11 said:**
> I bet it was the beta not the fnal realease. 9.10 has never once froze, crashed or slowed. the beta and rc, now that was a different story.

I do polymorphic computations and video editing at the same time, all the time and never had 1 crash or freeze. i find your situation this hard to believe, unless it was an app issue with 9.10, not the fault of ubuntu.

Believe it. Karmic was an absolute disaster on some (modern and very common) hardware. I spent a week just trying to get a clean 64-bit install of the final release to work without crashing constantly on my Lenovo Y530 (turns out the kernel shipped with Karmic will not work with my laptop, and there are many other severe bugs and regressions on lots of hardware). Plenty of others have had similarly frustrating experiences. I'm glad your experience was positive, but it's definitely not universal.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-12-06
Stay with, or choose, 9.04 since it is a really stable and good working OS.
The newer 9.10 was not finished when released in October, things just did not work and maybe still are not working.
I had great problems with the new Grub which I hate. I can not understand why we need this new Grub, the old one works fine and it is easy to adjust.
The kernel 2.6.31 shipped with 9.10 is junk: hardware sensors are not detected. Going back to 2.6.30 made me loose sound.
All kinds of settings which could be found very easily are now hidden, for example sound settings (right-click the loudspeaker item).
No, I re-installed 9.04 and am very happy with it.

I really do hope Ubuntu thinks very well before releasing 10.04 so they will not make the same mistakes as with 9.10

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-06
I skipped 9.04 so I can't really compare.  I generally do a clean install during when X.10 comes out and 9.10 was just such an event.  I am running the 64 big version and have had no issues (aside from trivial config issues).

The best and seeming most logical path I can give you is to go for 9.10 and reserve the right to downgrade if you are not happy.

---

### Post by peakpc on 2009-12-06
It depends on your hardware and how much your willing to experiment.  For the most part 9.10 is good for most computers however, most of it's issues seem to be kernel related (latest fedora is suffering too) if you want something a little less troublesome then go fore 9.04 it seemed very stable.

---

### Post by zidarsk8 on 2010-03-21
Well for me 9.10 works fine, it doesn't freeze or anything. But my biggest problem is that a lot of stuff that worked fine on 9.04 have now stopped working, and now i'm switching back cause i can't get anything to work (my webcam, drawing pad, printer,...) 

so yea i really hope these things will get fixed with 10.04 .

---

### Post by jsriz on 2010-03-21
ubuntu 9.10 works like a king on my laptop 
as a matter of fact i removed windows 7 after realizing my inactivity in windows after this install.
yes i heard it is hardware dependent but if you are so specific install the LTS version dont worry downgrading cos one is going to be out next month 10.04 wait and you will surely be rewarded.
p.s. its 9.04 not 9.10

---

