---
title: "11.10 Bluetooth file transfer problems"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Lee05162004 on 2011-10-18
Having problems with my Blackberry 9700 and bluetooth with 11.10. The computer and the Blackberry say they're connected but when I try and transfer files from the Blackberry to my computer I get an error on the Blackberry. Says it can't find the service. Any ideas? It all worked in the previous version of Ubuntu. Maybe I"m just missing something. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by m2montazari on 2011-10-21
hi,
I have a similar problem. in previous versions of ubuntu I had no problem but in oneiric my phone(sonyericsson xperia mini) is paired but cannot connect. I cant send anything from laptop to mobile phone and vise versa. it return connection refused (111)
any help is appreciated

---

### Post by FedeGhigo on 2011-10-22
Same problem for me, it was working with 11.04, connecting to android 2.3 phone and now I get connection refused 111; I paired it again but with no succcess

---

### Post by m3n3chm0 on 2011-11-07
Dear guys,

I'm having the same trouble... i can send files from my android phone to the laptop but not from the laptop to the phone ... :confused:

I FOUND the solution... update blueman :-) check this link..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1866001](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1866001)

---

### Post by Atcold on 2011-11-23
> **m3n3chm0 said:**
> Dear guys,

I'm having the same trouble... i can send files from my android phone to the laptop but not from the laptop to the phone ... :confused:

I FOUND the solution... update blueman :-) check this link..

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1866001](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1866001)
It does not work for me. I can only send files to the phone, but I cannot do the opposite. What shall I do?

---

### Post by airdelroy on 2011-12-17
Im having the same problem.  However, Ive noticed when transferring files from ubuntu to the phone I can quickly click the retry button over and over and it will eventually work.

Aaron

---

### Post by kenjiru on 2011-12-21
I have the same problem. Very annoying!

---

### Post by shizz on 2012-01-12
Just want to bump this up as I am having the same problems. Any fixes?

---

### Post by debili on 2012-01-19
I'm experiencing the same. with blueman it sometimes works after I retry a couple of times... anybody a fix ?

---

### Post by findelmundo on 2012-02-17
I have similar problem as above on my Asus N53SV running oneiric 64bit. Installed Blueman 1.23. I am able to send files from computer to my phone, but when sending files from phone to the computer, although everything seems to work just fine, the file is not 'here' when I try to locate it. If I try to browse the phone contents in nautilus I get an error message, and, after that, the bluetooth icon disappears from the toolbar. Btw... Bluetooth used to work fine on previous installation (11.04).

---

### Post by Brianetta on 2012-03-09
Likewise, I'm having this problem. I'm using XFCE. I'm unwilling to install blueman, since that reliably breaks my computer's use of my mobile phone's internet connection.

---

### Post by melek on 2012-03-15
i've installed blueman,im using gnom, still the same problem

---

### Post by apoapo on 2012-04-18
I cannot send files from my blackberry to my laptop. It works the other way round.

Ok, does anyone find a related bug report on launchpad? I will report and give the link here otherwise.

cheers

---

### Post by renjithravindran on 2012-07-05
try this 
[http://www.worldofnubcraft.com/1767/a-bluetooth-quick-fix-hack-for-ubuntu-11-10/](http://www.worldofnubcraft.com/1767/a-bluetooth-quick-fix-hack-for-ubuntu-11-10/)

---

### Post by Forlong on 2013-02-22
I know this is an old thread but it was the first that popped up on google, when I tried looking into this problem.

The solution is simple:

[SIZE="3"]If you want to send files from your phone to ubuntu, you need to run
```
gnome-file-share-properties
```
(alternatively, if you're on unity, fire up your dash an search for **file share**)

There you need to enable **Recieve Files over Bluetooth**[/SIZE]

---

### Post by Brianetta on 2013-02-22
Interesting. Only helps if you have Gnome, though...

---

