---
title: "17.10 Video playback Brightness?"
date: 2017-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ice-Tea on 2017-10-30
When playing a video on 17.10 where is the Brightness and contrast controls as i right clicked about and couldn't find anything?

thanks

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-10-30
Using what application; the default totem (Videos)?

There do appear to haver been several reports of problems with totem in 17.10, particularly if using wayland graphics system which is now the Ubuntu default.
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2373768](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2373768)

I never use totem and always install vlc which is a fit-all for just about any video you want to play and has "Extended setting" which allow audio and video settings very much more easily.

---

### Post by Ice-Tea on 2017-10-30
Sorry i should have said a standard install of 17.10 final when using the default totem player , i also have the Restricted Extras installed.

I couldn't find any Brightness or Contrast controls when playing Video.

Nvidia card so i assume i'm on Xorg.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-10-30
You may not be on an X11 session, but let's be sure.

Run command ```
echo $XDG_SESSION_TYPE
```
The brightness and contrast, and the audio equalisation I mentioned are in vlc not totem, which I do not use even in my OSs that include it.

---

### Post by Ice-Tea on 2017-10-31
I ran that command and it says X11.

I've given up with Totem and installed MPV and it's working perfectly. :)

like you i'll not be using Totem again as the quality of the playback is quit shocking in comparison with MPV , i'm surprised Ubuntu even bothers to use Totem.

---

