---
title: "18.04 How to start a script at startup?"
date: 2020-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by darkdude2 on 2020-10-28
Hi,

I've been using Ubuntu since 6.06, so it's quite a while now. In most cases I know how to find my way around the system, but now I find it almost impossible to achieve a simple task.
I need a script to be executed at startup and run in background.

I have two types of scripts:

1) My own Python script (MQTT client). I tried:
- cron @reboot - it's not working, the script is not executed
- systemd service - it always fails 
- Startup Applications - this one worked... for some time. Now it's not being executed even though nothing changed in the system

I tried both running the script directly and writing a bash script with command to run the pyhton one.

2) An open source MQTT bridge for Supla Colud service. It needs to be started with some parameters and then run in background. Something like /home/xxx/yyy/program -config config.yaml

In this case nothing works. systemd does not pass the config and service fails. Startup applications cannot pass parameters. And so is cron. 

Is there any way to start an application like this at startup? It may not be elegant, but i need it to work...

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-10-28
Does whatever it is that's  failing to run need elevated permissions, ie is run as root?
If it does you will need to use root's  cron to run it, not your user cron.

Tell us more please.

---

### Post by dinkidonk on 2020-10-28
1) Seems like systemd is the right way to run your python script, but you need to supply your systemd.service file and a description of how you installed it if you want help on that.

2) The command "/home/xxx/yyy/program -config config.yaml" may be problematic, because you do not specify the full path to the config file.

---

