---
title: "14.04 now failing with error mounting /boot/efi"
date: 2015-07-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by abierbaum on 2015-07-24
I have been using Ubuntu 14.04 with no issues for months.  When I restarted my laptop yesterday the boot stopped with a: "An error occurred while mounting /boot/efi" message.

I attempted to use boot-repair but it did not end up fixing the issue.

My boot-repair url is: [http://paste.ubuntu.com/11928058/](http://paste.ubuntu.com/11928058/)

Any additional suggestions?  From what I can see everything seems to be in order.

-Allen

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-07-24
I have moved your thread to General as it is not related to installing or upgrading.

My only observation regarding your problem, and I don't know if the system has added this itself or not, but your fstab file has a commented line for the efi partition
```
#UUID=BCB7-CAF1  /boot/efi       vfat    defaults        0       1
``` The # at the start of the line should definitely not be there.
I am no expert in UEFI, but I wonder if you can boot to a live system, edit the /etc/fstab file of the installed OS, and then try again to boot the installed system.

If the system has added that # mark for some reason, this suggestion may not work, but it could be worth a try.  The question that then arises, if this is successful; why is that # mark there and where did it come from?

Incidentally, you have far too many kernel versions installed at present and it would be worth running ```
sudo apt-get autoremove
``` to leave you with just the two most recent.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2015-07-24
I do not know why Boot-Repair does this, but it comments out one efi boot entry in fstab but then adds another. So /boot/efi entry is still in fstab, only the original one is commented out.

I assume it may have to do with those systems where you are requesting conversion from UEFI to BIOS or BIOS to UEFI boot.

       sudo /sbin/fsck.vfat -V <the fat32 device>
Since your efi partition is sda1:
sudo /sbin/fsck.vfat -V /dev/sda1
OR:
sudo fsck -t vfat /dev/sda1

---

