---
title: "8.04 effects in 7.10"
date: 2008-05-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by SpenceMakesSense on 2008-05-21
There are some 8.04 compiz effects that I thought were really cool. But after long trying to get through different problems I encountered through 8.04 I decided to go back to 7.10(please dont ask me about my 8.04 problems thats not why im here) Now I was wondering if there was a way to get the compiz effects from 8.04 on 7.10. Like 3D windows and show mouse. (whenever stars surround your mouse)

---

### Post by shifty_powers on 2008-05-21
might be a stupid question, but have you installed compizconfig-settings-manager?

afaik it works fine on 7.10, and will allow you to customize compiz to your hearts content...

```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
```

will then be in system>preference>advanced desktop effects settings

---

### Post by MikeEvans on 2008-05-21
You can install the compiz packages from 8.04 in 7.10 but you'll have to 
*Deal with dependency issues
*Stop apt from managing related packages
*Risk compatibility issues

I would pursue shifty_powers suggestion before going that route.

---

### Post by SpenceMakesSense on 2008-05-21
Ya I have the compiz effects manager thing. And They do work. And Im willing to try it out despite dependency problems

---

### Post by MikeEvans on 2008-05-21
Okay, I'm no expert at package management and I couldn't easily find information on this but this is what I would consider. 

First:
[LIST]
[*]I REALLY have no idea if this will work, you may mess up your installation.
[*]If you do mess up your system you'll have to fix it in recovery mode.
[*]You should make sure you have access to the ubuntu repositories when in recovery mode or you'll have a hard time fixing it if it breaks... or make a full backup of your system.
[/LIST]

Download the compiz packages from 8.10 and install them with the debian package manager. You can get them here: [http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/x11/compiz]("http://packages.ubuntu.com/hardy/x11/compiz")

You may have to purge the old packages first.  If it complains about dependency issues use the --force-all option. 

```
sudo dpkg --force-all --purge compiz compiz-gnome compiz-plugins (all the related packages)

```

Since you will be installing allot of packages you can put them all in a folder and install them all at once using a wildcard.  Something like:

```
sudo dpkg --install /path_to_packages/*
```

You may have to run that command a few times until everything is installed. You may need to use the --force-all option again. If that actually works you can reboot and see the results.  

If X wont load or something else terrible happens you can boot into rescue mode and use dpkg to purge all the compiz packages again like you did earlier.  Then just apt-get install compiz should get you back to the 7.10 setup.

If it does work you'll want to freeze these packages in apt so it doesn't try anything funny next time you update.

---

