---
title: "16.04 can't record in stereo on Lenovo G570 laptop"
date: 2017-01-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by luz3448 on 2017-01-24
Can't record in stereo.  
Lenovo G570 laptop with Pentium B940 @ 2.00GHz, 4GB RAM, 64-bit Operating System


Ubuntu 16.04
pavucontrol:
Input Devices: Built-in Audio Analog Stereo: Internal Microphone or Microphon (unplugged)
Recording: ALSA plug-in [audacity]: ALSA capture from Built-in Audio Analog Stereo
... only one channel shown


Audacity 2.1.2 shows only Left Channel active (click to start monitoring)
	Playback from a stereo source e.g. mp3 file is ok.
.
Windows 7 shows:
Recording: Internal Microphone: Conexant SmartAudio HD
           Stereo Mix: Conexant SmartAudio HD
Device Manager: Sound, video and game controllers:
	Conexant SmartAudio HD
	Intel(R) Display Audio
Audacity works fine in Windows on this machine.


Had this problem on Ubuntu 14.04,
I was hoping that the upgrade to 16.04 would have fixed this problem.

---

### Post by luz3448 on 2017-08-15
I found from this: [https://www.maketecheasier.com/record-system-sound-linux/](https://www.maketecheasier.com/record-system-sound-linux/)

Recording:


Open up both Audacity and Pulse Audio Volume Control (In Terminal: pavucontrol). In Audacity, press the red record button.


With Audacity now recording, move to the Pulse Audio Volume Control program and click on its Recording tab. Since Audacity is currently recording, you&#8217;ll notice that the Audacity recording action shows up in the Pulse Audio Volume Control program.


By default, Audacity is recording from a device known as &#8220;Built-in Audio Analog Stereo.&#8221; This is the default microphone option. It needs to be swapped out to a different device &#8211; one that will allow for system-wide audio recording. Click on the &#8220;Built-in Audio Analog Stereo&#8221; button and change it to &#8220;Monitor of Built-in Audio Analog Stereo.&#8221; This option essentially turns your speakers into a microphone input for Audacity.

---

