---
title: "Getting the Nvidia Legacy driver working"
date: 2008-11-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by m4fia on 2008-11-14
Searched for a while and haven't been able to find anything.

lspci | grep VGA
```
VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation NV6 [Vanta/Vanta LT] (rev 15)

```

I have the Envy Driver installed. And everything is installed and working. Yet when i try to bring the resolution above 800x600 it doesn't work. This is slightly annoying, because i know the driver worked for this legacy card on my other computer. Another question is it that i have an onbaord gfx card. And this could be messing up my settings?

cat /var/log/Xorg.0.log 

[http://pastebin.com/f68b3eea5](http://pastebin.com/f68b3eea5)

 /etc/X11/xorg.conf
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
	Option		"UseEdidFreqs"	"True"
	Option		"AllowGLXWithComposite"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by m4fia on 2008-11-15
Bump?

---

