---
title: "10.10 Video Drivers Problem"
date: 2011-01-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by valqkaaa on 2011-01-28
Hello. I'm with ubuntu 10.10 and I tried a hundred different ways to install my VGA drivers but every time I do install some drivers for my video card I get black screen at start up(yes I hear the startup melody). I tried the NVIDIA drivers from the website, tried system/adm/additional drivers from the linux menu, tried to add the fail /etc/X11/xorg.conf .... just I did a lot of things and still can't get my drivers to run.

So please give me step by step way for noobs to install those drivers because I'm sick of it all. 4 days in a row I fail to fix this thing. (yes I read them manuals in the official site)

My pc is : P5KPL Motherboard, Nvidia 9800 GT video card(Gainward) 2gb ram and core2duo E6400 2.13ghz. Monitor is Sony SDM-HS73 (60hz)

---

### Post by valqkaaa on 2011-01-28
bump

---

### Post by valqkaaa on 2011-01-28
come on...

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-01-28
...System/Application/HardwareDrivers.
On a vanilla,updated Maverick this should work.
Assume you tried this first. 
What exactly happens when doing this?
Have you run

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```
?

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-01-28
> **realzippy said:**
> ...System/Application/HardwareDrivers.
On a vanilla,updated Maverick this should work.
Assume you tried this first. 
What exactly happens when doing this?
Have you run

```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```
?

Just checked your other posts/threads and saw that you should have run this
command.
Doubleposting is time robbery! ;-)

BTW,if you nearly tried 100 ways and a few days to install the NVIDIA driver,you for sure have disabled kernel modules aso,and if you do not know what you have done so far,it might be a problem to help.

---

### Post by Elfy on 2011-01-28
Please do not post duplicates - also please do not bump more than once in 24 hours.

---

### Post by valqkaaa on 2011-01-28
Sorry about the constant bumping, but it is a kind of an emergency. I'm sure that I didn't f*ck up the system because I had some (5-6) reinstalls+format.

Need a step by step way to installing those failed VGA drivers because I can't watch almost anything, not mentioning the lag when watching youtube videos for example.

What ways did I actually try doing.
- installing drivers from "additional drivers" menu - I get black screen + "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP" doesn't fix the problem.
-tried installing the latest nvidia drivers for linux from nvidia.com - same problem. ( I also deleted noveau, stopped X as instructed)

Now I'm with the 6th or 7th re-installation and I'm just afraid to proceed with fail attempts because sometimes when I try to install in the end of the installation pops up a message saying "chose different boot device etc." and I need to start the installation all over.

I kind of like the ubuntu but it surely is seriously f*cked up (at least for newbz like me)

---

### Post by realzippy on 2011-01-29
So you hear the startup melody?
If this is the case,press Alt+Ctrl+F1,the command line should appear.
Here you have to log in with your username and password.
Once logged in,type line by line:

```
sudo service gdm stop
sudo nvidia-xconfig
startx
sudo service gdm start
```

Then press Alt+Ctrl+F7.
If it does not work,post what "nvidia-xconfig" returns...

---

### Post by valqkaaa on 2011-01-29
Atm I have to organize some documents so I can't risk installing drivers but I will try it asap.

More opinions are well to come.

---

