---
title: "Where's the stock ticker"
date: 2007-08-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-08-08
Hello. I'm not sure if this post will work. I'm getting some weird error:
The Ubuntu Forums database has encountered a problem.

OK let's see. I just installed 7.04 and I wanted to add the applet called Stock Ticker to the upper panel by right clicking the panel and selecting Add to Panel. The stock ticker is no longer there. It was there in 6.06 and earlier versions. Now I see this thing called Invest. I tried it and I can not get it to work. It's not what I was looking for anyway. With the old stock ticker I was able to make a new panel and just have the stock ticker on it only. It worked great.

Does anyone know of a way to get the Stock Ticker in 7.07 and why it was removed?

Thanks

---

### Post by apetresc on 2007-08-08
The gnome-applets package seems to only contain Invest now, and I can't find the old one in apt anymore. Your best bet is to just grab the package from upstream and build it yourself: [http://unix.freshmeat.net/projects/stocktickerapplet/](http://unix.freshmeat.net/projects/stocktickerapplet/)

I'm sure the download package will have install instructions :) Good luck!

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-08-08
Thanks for the reply AdrianP.

I followed your link and downloaded the applet. I am assuming this is the same applet in earlier versions of Ubuntu. anyway I ran into some problems trying to get it installed. I was wondering if you or anyone can help.

Here's what my terminal said:

```
me@ubuntu-desktop:~$ cd ~/Desktop/stockticker_applet-0.2.2
me@ubuntu-desktop:~/Desktop/stockticker_applet-0.2.2$ sudo auto-apt run ./configure
Entering auto-apt mode: ./configure
Exit the command to leave auto-apt mode.
loading cache ./config.cache
checking for a BSD compatible install... /usr/bin/install -c
checking whether build environment is sane... yes
checking whether make sets ${MAKE}... yes
checking for working aclocal... found
checking for working autoconf... found
checking for working automake... found
checking for working autoheader... found
checking for working makeinfo... missing
checking whether to enable maintainer-specific portions of Makefiles... no
checking for gnome-config... no
checking for gnomeConf.sh file in /usr/local/lib... not found
configure: error: Could not find the gnomeConf.sh file that is generated by gnome-libs install
me@ubuntu-desktop:~/Desktop/stockticker_applet-0.2.2$
```


Originally it said several other things could not be found like aclocal, autoconf, automake, and autoheader. But I got those taken care of. I can't get past this part.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by apetresc on 2007-08-08
For aclocal and all those earlier things, you should do ```
sudo apt-get install build-essential
```

To make sure you have everything you'd need to build the ticker app, do a ```
sudo apt-get build-dep gnome-applets
```

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-08-09
OK thanks. I'll try this out later tonight. I'll let you know how it went.

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-08-10
I had build-essential already so I tried your second code. It took about 20 minutes to download around 76MB of stuff and it said 250MB of drive space was used. For nothing. What in the world was that? Then I ran ```
sudo auto-apt run ./configure
``` again and I got the exact same response as the code I posted before. Exactly.

What was all the stuff I downloaded? Wait, I got the text here,

```
6kB]
Get:83 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libdbus-glib-1-dev 0.73-1 [171kB] 
Get:84 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgail-dev 1.18.0-0ubuntu1 [87.2kB]
Get:85 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgnome-keyring-dev 0.8.1-0ubuntu1 [54.1kB]
Get:86 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libjpeg62-dev 6b-13 [185kB]       
Get:87 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgnomeui-dev 2.17.92-0ubuntu1 [430kB]
Get:88 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libstartup-notification0-dev 0.9-1 [24.0kB]
Get:89 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgnome-desktop-dev 1:2.18.1-0ubuntu1 [82.0kB]
Get:90 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/main libgnome-settings-daemon-dev 1:2.18.1-0ubuntu2.1 [86.7kB]
Get:91 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libxklavier-dev 3.2-0ubuntu1 [74.1kB]
Get:92 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgnomekbd-dev 2.18.1-0ubuntu1 [22.1kB]
Get:93 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgnomekbdui-dev 2.18.1-0ubuntu1 [29.1kB]
Get:94 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgstreamer0.10-dev 0.10.12-0ubuntu2 [817kB]
Get:95 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgstreamer-plugins-base0.10-dev 0.10.12-0ubuntu1 [66.0kB]
Get:96 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgtop2-dev 2.14.8-0ubuntu1 [104kB]
Get:97 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libgucharmap6-dev 1:1.10.0-0ubuntu1 [31.8kB]
Get:98 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libnotify-dev 0.4.3-1 [26.5kB]    
Get:99 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main liboobs-1-dev 2.18.0-0ubuntu1 [82.7kB]
Get:100 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/main libpanel-applet2-dev 1:2.18.1-0ubuntu3.1 [108kB]
Get:101 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main libwnck-dev 2.18.0-0ubuntu1 [175kB]
Get:102 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main patchutils 0.2.31-3 [90.0kB]     
Get:103 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main python-cairo-dev 1.2.0-1ubuntu2 [35.2kB]
Get:104 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/main python2.5-dev 2.5.1-0ubuntu1 [1643kB]
Get:105 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty-updates/main python-dev 2.5.1-0ubuntu3 [978B]
Get:106 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main python-gnome2-dev 2.18.0-0ubuntu1 [64.4kB]
Get:107 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main python-gobject-dev 2.12.3-0ubuntu3 [15.6kB]
Get:108 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main python-gtk2-dev 2.10.4-0ubuntu3 [195kB]
Get:109 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main python-gnome2-desktop-dev 2.18.0-0ubuntu3 [43.4kB]
Get:110 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main sharutils 1:4.2.1-15 [111kB]     
Get:111 http://archive.ubuntu.com feisty/main system-tools-backends-dev 2.2.0-0ubuntu1 [76.6kB]
Fetched 76.3MB in 20m7s (63.2kB/s)                                             
Extracting templates from packages: 100%
Preconfiguring packages ...
```

Then it unpacked and installed all that. Do I need all that stuff and can I uninstall it if I don't need it? Might want to free up partition space. It might not be a big deal but I hate to use up 250 MB of space if I don't need that stuff.

---

### Post by apetresc on 2007-08-10
> **cjax1 said:**
> What was all the stuff I downloaded? Wait, I got the text here,

Then it unpacked and installed all that. Do I need all that stuff and can I uninstall it if I don't need it? Might want to free up partition space. It might not be a big deal but I hate to use up 250 MB of space if I don't need that stuff.

What all that was were development library headers for all the various things used to build gnome-applets. They are only required in order to compile things, which is why they're not included by default and most have a -dev suffix -- they're for developers.

If you ever intend to be compiling gnome-related things by hand, you should leave them.

What's really weird is that your configure error is still there. What does this command return: ```
locate gnomeConf.sh
```

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-08-10
Hi.

I appreciate you taking the time to help. I understand now what all that stuff was. That command returned nothing. It just went back to the prompt.

```
me@ubuntu-desktop:~$ locate gnomeConf.sh
me@ubuntu-desktop:~$ 

```

I'll keep trying to get this working but in all honesty I might be going back to 6.06. There's several minor things that was changed in 7.04 and I wish they would have left them alone. 7.04 works good and I like it but there's just little things and they all add up. But then I know sooner or later I'll have to upgrade. I may stick with the LTS version for now. I may try to work out the other little annoyances later with some new posts but it takes time to get the OS set up the way I want as it is and now all these little things keep popping up.

Anyway, if you have anymore ideas on setting up this applet please let me know. I would like to try to get this resolved. I'm always learning something new.

Thanks again.

:)

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-08-12
Thanks for the help Adrian. I have tried several things and I still can't get it to work. Did some searching and I found gnomeConf.sh and put it in the directory it's supposed to be in and when I typed sudo auto-apt run ./configure it got a little further but couldn't get past that part again. Then I found out to get makeinfo I had to get it installed by typing 'sudo apt-get install texinfo'. Texinfo not makeinfo. That seemed to help but I was still stopped by errors.

Thanks for the help but this isn't worth it. I have searched for stock tickers in synaptic and can't find any that work good or work at all. I think there was only one or two anyway. I think one was called smtm. I just downloaded one called pytick. I'll try to install it. I wager it don't work. Dependancy this and dependency that. I liked the built in stock ticker applet, it was simple and ran in a panel. Green meant stocks are up and red down. I don't need one that displays graphs.
[Screenshot here.]("http://i65.photobucket.com/albums/h222/puddlejumper-photos/Screenshots/Linux/Stockticker.jpg")

If anyone can recommend one similar to this one please do.

Update: I installed Pytick and it installed just fine. Very simple instructions in the read me. It's pretty much what I was looking for. It seems to work fine however it always starts about an inch from the top of the screen. It doesn't remember where I left it. I put it at the bottom of the screen and the next time it starts it's toward the top again. Otherwise it works and I think it might be a keeper.

---

### Post by anilbhx on 2007-08-12
I had installed FC6 and missed the Stock Ticker Applet . I had the same problems with Invest as you mentioned. I did not try even a tenth as much as you, to get it working . :(

However I had taken disk images of  my FC5 installation so I was back within about 30 minutes. 

I know this against the Linux philosphy but some applets are worth buying..:lolflag:

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2007-08-13
Hi there.

I thought I would give the Invest applet one more try. I don't know why. I thought maybe I was missing something. But now it's on the top panel and it doesn't do anything. I can't even right click it and delete from panel like before. I'm going to have to delete the whole panel and redo it just to get rid of it. I can rebuild the panel to just like I had it before in no time so it's no big deal for me but it's just the idea.

I have my desktop customized to look like a Mac including a lower panel with transparency like a Mac's for launching applications. Even have Mac wallpapers and fonts. I love the way it looks. I also have a side panel on the right side that slides out for other shortcuts. Helps keep the desktop clean. But I've had a few problems with some of the application and web shortcuts on the panels either disappearing or turn into a red X and not working. Even if I right click them and fill in the information again it quits working later. Same goes for a shortcut to a certain folder, while others work good. I had to figure out how to create web shortcuts on the desktop and panels all over again and sometimes they just don't work. They actually made it harder to do in 7.04. I have got a few working but Ubuntu has pretty much made it harder for me to customize my desktop. I don't like that at all. They not only made it harder but the new methods I use to do the same thing don't work too good.

I'm going back to Dapper 6.06. I wanted to check out 7.04 and the built in effects, which is cool and I like them but I had to turn them off because I watch a couple live streams in RealPlayer once in a while, including NASA TV, and the desktop effects didn't play well at all with RealPlayer. It pretty much made watching those streams impossible. It would lock up RealPlayer. I thought it was RealPlayer at first until I turned off the effects. I have spent around two weeks, when I have time, working out things that I didn't have a problem with in Dapper 6.06. It's almost like I took a step backward. This may not be the case for some but it is for me. They may have made some other improvements but I'm sticking with 6.06 until the next release, or two, and I hope they do a few of these things differently otherwise I'm not going to be as happy with Ubuntu as I have been. I pray that won't be the case as I love Ubuntu. I still say it's the best. I just got tired of fighting with it. I mean, it went from an easily customizable desktop to one that seems like a pain in the *** to customize. I had my desktop the way I wanted it in 6.06, very easy and convenient to work with AND it looked good and I would like to keep it that way. I'm going to move 7.04 to another partition so I can play with it later but I'm going to use 6.06 as my main OS for now.

To be fair though, 7.04 seems very nice and what I'm doing as far as customizing the desktop isn't the most important thing but that's what I'm used to doing. If I want a web shortcut on my desktop I want to be able to put it there with no problems. I actually found a FireFox extension that does that though. But if I move it to a panel I expect it to work.

I want to thank everyone that has helped me in the past, you people are the best. I'm sure I'll be back. :) Sorry for the long post.

Here's a couple screenshots I just took:

[http://i65.photobucket.com/albums/h222/puddlejumper-photos/Screenshots/Linux/Ubuntu7.04Mactheme1.png]("http://i65.photobucket.com/albums/h222/puddlejumper-photos/Screenshots/Linux/Ubuntu7.04Mactheme1.png")

[http://i65.photobucket.com/albums/h222/puddlejumper-photos/Screenshots/Linux/Ubuntu7.04Mactheme.png]("http://i65.photobucket.com/albums/h222/puddlejumper-photos/Screenshots/Linux/Ubuntu7.04Mactheme.png")

---

### Post by rada on 2007-09-06
Only has colors for 'rising' 'falling' and 'not available' and uses yahoo quotes, but looks like the python app `pytick' might fit what you're looking for. super easy to build and use

[http://whatah.nyunderground.net/code/pytick/](http://whatah.nyunderground.net/code/pytick/)

[Misc. [mostly old unmaintained] linux stock market software]("http://www.linuxlinks.com/Software/Financial/Stockmarket/")

sweet desktop             Good luck!

---

### Post by go_beep_yourself on 2008-03-03
> **cjax1 said:**
> 

...

I can't even right click it and delete from panel like before. I'm going to have to delete the whole panel and redo it just to get rid of it. I can rebuild the panel to just like I had it before in no time so it's no big deal for me but it's just the idea.

...



Is there anyway to remove it without resetting the entire panel? Did you delete dot configuration user files or folders? If I do that, it will also remove other stuff that I don't want removed not including just whats on the panels. I'm having the same problem!

---

### Post by go_beep_yourself on 2008-03-03
I thought I had figured it out, but this did not work.

```
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~$ grep -R .g
.gconf/            .gksu.lock         .gnupg/            .gweled
.gconfd/           .gnome/            .gstreamer-0.10/   
.gimp-2.2/         .gnome2/           .gtk-bookmarks     
.gimp-2.4/         .gnome2_private/   .gtkrc-1.2-gnome2  
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~$ grep -R .gconf
.gconf/  .gconfd/ 
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~$ grep -R -i invest .gconf*
.gconf/apps/panel/applets/applet_2/%gconf.xml:                <stringvalue>OAFIID:Invest_Applet</stringvalue>
.gconf/apps/panel/applets/applet_1/%gconf.xml:                <stringvalue>OAFIID:Invest_Applet</stringvalue>
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~$ grep -R -i invest .gnome*
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~$ cd .gconf/apps/panel/applets
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~/.gconf/apps/panel/applets$ ls
applet_0         fast_user_switch_screen0     trashapplet_screen0
applet_1         %gconf.xml                   window_list_screen0
applet_2         mixer_screen0                workspace_switcher_screen0
clock_screen0    notification_area_screen0
deskbar_screen0  show_desktop_button_screen0
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~/.gconf/apps/panel/applets$ rm -rfv applet_{1,2}
removed `applet_1/%gconf.xml'
removed directory: `applet_1'
removed `applet_2/%gconf.xml'
removed directory: `applet_2'
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~/.gconf/apps/panel/applets$ pkill gnome-panel
veronica@ubuntu-desktop:~/.gconf/apps/panel/applets$ 
```

---

### Post by cjax1 on 2008-03-04
Hi.

I totally forgot about being subscribed to this thread. I went through and fixed the links to my screenshots that I had broken a while back.

Hey go_beep_yourself, I have no clue what you were trying to do with that configuration file. I remember I was able to remove that applet from the panel a couple times but the last time I tried it it seemed froze and wasn't able to remove it. I do remember installing pytick and it was no problem to install.

I'm still using 6.06LTS. I never did try to get the stuff worked out. I'm waiting for 8.04LTS then I'm switching to that. Can't wait to see what goodies are in store.

---

