---
title: "8.10 nvidia-settings doesn't work"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mexus on 2008-11-01
When i press "Save to X Configuration File" and the application closes :(

> 
:~$ sudo nvidia-settings
Segmentation fault
:~$


The problem is if I configure the xorg.conf by myself plasma shows only on first screen, there is no wallpaper on the second/no widgets....

Videocard: Nvidia FX5200
Driver: nvidia-glx-173

---

### Post by kaibob on 2008-11-01
You may want to look at post 3 in the following thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961348&highlight=nvidia+sudo+gksudo+nvidia-settings](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961348&highlight=nvidia+sudo+gksudo+nvidia-settings)

I have the same video card as you and never could get nivida-settings to save the xorg.conf file but it may work for you.

---

### Post by PaulWhipp on 2008-11-05
> **kaibob said:**
> You may want to look at post 3 in the following thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961348&highlight=nvidia+sudo+gksudo+nvidia-settings](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=961348&highlight=nvidia+sudo+gksudo+nvidia-settings)

I have the same video card as you and never could get nivida-settings to save the xorg.conf file but it may work for you.
I have the same problem with a fresh install of 8.10 (8.04 worked fine).

I followed dabl's instructions in the related thread and, although they seem to have worked for some people, they made no difference at all for me. I have to reset and apply the nvidia settings every time I restart the machine.

---

### Post by mexus on 2008-11-07
> **PaulWhipp said:**
> I have the same problem with a fresh install of 8.10 (8.04 worked fine).

I followed dabl's instructions in the related thread and, althou*gh they seem to have worked for some people, they made no difference at all for me. I have to reset and apply the nvidia settings every time I restart the machine.


No difference for me to!
So here is what i did.

sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/backup.conf
kdesudo (gksudo) nvidia-settings.

Now the program doesn't crash, just gives an error that xorg.conf is missing, but allows you to save the conf for ex. /home/user/ex.conf

So you copy the part's that you need both (or just ex.conf) ex.conf and backup.conf to a new xorg.conf file. WHEN YOU ARE READY reboot or restart X (ctl + alt + backspace).

Sorry for the bad English. Not my native language.

---

### Post by PaulWhipp on 2008-11-11
The 8.10 updates have now fully resolved this issue.

You may still find issues with the writing of the files in which case make sure that you use:

gksudo nvidia-settings

from a terminal rather than invoking the settings through the administration menu.

At last I can shutdown ;)

---

