---
title: "{16.04} need to actually upgrade to 16.10? - link says that most changes backported"
date: 2016-11-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
link says most changes backported, whatever that is suppose to mean

[http://www.webupd8.org/2016/10/ubuntu-1610-available-for-download-see.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2016/10/ubuntu-1610-available-for-download-see.html)
[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/10/kdenlive-16-08-2-bug-fix-release](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2016/10/kdenlive-16-08-2-bug-fix-release)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2016-11-05
Why do you want to upgrade? 16.04 is a LTS and only 6 month old. 16.10 is new and it will be buggy.

---

### Post by alexjpowell on 2016-11-05
16.10 isn't buggy for me, but I didn't notice any difference from 16.04
Are you missing functionality in 16.04 that you can get in 16.10?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2016-11-05
Upgrading to 16.10 is a bit like chasing you tail; never ending, as you'll have to upgrade again in another few months as 16.10 will lose support in July next year.

Unless you have a good reason to move to 16.10, I, like the other posters, suggest you stick with 16.04.

I always stay with LTS versions for a long time and don't move from them until the first point release of the next LTS.  You will see I am still on Xubuntu 14.04 which runs as smooth as butter. However, I am just about to move to 16.04.1, which I have been using as a virtual install in VirtualBox since long before its release, and that also is now running very smoothly, so the time ir right to move to it for my main OS.

I will do a clean install, not an upgrade, as I find it a much more reliable way to move, and with a separate /home partition, it is a 30minute job.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
well on the links it says unity is faster, improved, etc.

is that a good reason to update to 16.10?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2016-11-05
> **linuxhard said:**
> well on the links it says unity is faster, improved, etc.

is that a good reason to update to 16.10?

No.
Every release makes unity a tinny bit better, but only just.
I would not call that alone a good reason to upgrade.

Good reasons to upgrade would be

Hardware issue solved in new release.
If you have a hardware issue that was not working in 16.04 but a fix came in 16.10, then that would be a good reason.

Software issue solved in new  release.
The thing about Ubuntu's LTS (long term support) releases is that they tend to be built more conservatively and so sometimes, even though a newer version of some package may be available, the Ubuntu developers hold back on adding it to Ubuntu for the LTS release because not enough time to properly test it.
Those package tend to make it into the next release.

Of course both these issues [s]are[/s] may be solvable without upgrading, too.

[s]Most[/s] Many hardware issues are kernel related, so installing a mainline kernel from Ubuntu's mainline kernel archive [s]can usually[/s] might fix those issues.
Reference on Kernel Mainline here:[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/MainlineBuilds]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/MainlineBuilds")

And lots of packages in Ubuntu have 3rd party package archives, called ppa's.
Which tend to contain the newer versions of packages, not *yet* install-able through the normal methods.
Reference on ppa's here: [http://askubuntu.com/questions/4983/what-are-ppas-and-how-do-i-use-them]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/4983/what-are-ppas-and-how-do-i-use-them")

Both of these things can be done on the older LTS release without much harm.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-05
ok gotta put all this related stuff on the web so we all know not to update the os

so this way all the rubbish on the Web that tells us to update the os can be deleted

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2016-11-05
> **deadflowr said:**
> No.
Every release makes unity a tinny bit better, but only just.
I would not call that alone a good reason to upgrade.

.

Actually, I have a fresh install of 16.10 on an external drive for testing. Running off the same hardware I don't find unity faster at all (it is already very fast). The only thing I notice is that there are some weird compiz animation plugins which were not available before. So if you are into eye candies maybe it is worth playing with it.  

But there are other problems like Nautilus' laid out (more like upstream now which is horrible IMO, where the menus are split on two sides of the window, like "save" on the left but "save as" on the right) file transfer is kind of glltchy sometimes. I cannot compile some third party software with the default gcc because of version incompatibility, a third party software no longer installs because of missing libgestreamer-0.1.0 etc. Most problems I experienced are mild annoyance rather than show stoppers and there are work arounds for most of these but why bother? Unless you are a bug hunter or use cutting edge hardware that 16.04 cannot handle even with kernel ppa I wouldn't recommend trading in 16.04.

---

### Post by linuxhard on 2016-11-06
[COLOR=#000000]ok so we re-learn this lesson again & again -- ignore insane rubbish on the Web -- got it![/COLOR]

---

