---
title: "10.10 Sound issues."
date: 2010-10-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mrchaos101 on 2010-10-16
My system seem to run great in ubuntu 10.04.

Intel i7 3.2ghz
12gig ddr3 PC 15,000
3 raptor drives 300gig each in raid 0
Sound Blaster X-Fi

I seem to have audio issues in 10.10.
I noticed this while playing World of Warcraft in Wine.  The audio would...just stop.  I figured this must be an WoW issue as they to have had an update.  BUT, while on a website that had streaming video... the audio did the same thing i just stopped.  Strangly, I jumped right over to my music folder and was able to play mp3.s   I can fix it by doing the old windows trick... reboot the pc.  BUT it will stop again shortly after.
At this point I am considering reloading the os etc.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by staticsage on 2010-10-16
Just chiming in... I recently upgraded from 10.04 to 10.10 and I have the same problem with Starcraft 2. Sound will work and then cut out.

Instead of having to restart you might be able to do a wineserver -k to get sound back. It will still just cut out again after you reopen the game.

I'm considering deleting my .wine folder and reinstalling the game.

---

### Post by mrchaos101 on 2010-10-16
I am thinking it is 10.10    Just needs some luv

Being im an Windows boy who jumped the fence....10.04 look'n mighty nice again.

....plz let me know if your wine reinstall works?

---

### Post by mrchaos101 on 2010-10-17
Did your wine reinstall fix it?

---

### Post by staticsage on 2010-10-17
Haven't tried. I've been messing around with wine settings, but still no luck.

---

### Post by dawonn on 2010-10-18
Don't bother, I have a fresh 10.10 with a fresh .wine and a fresh install of FFXI. Both wine1.2 and wine1.3 have this problem. :(


[Edit] Bug Report Here: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wine/+bug/662820](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wine/+bug/662820)

---

### Post by dawonn on 2010-10-19
Setting audio settings to use esound rather than alsa fixed my problems. :)

---

### Post by staticsage on 2010-10-19
Sounds are severely delayed when using Esound for me. If I find some time I might try this. I am curious if the issue is with the wine package or pulseaudio.

[http://art.ified.ca/?page_id=40](http://art.ified.ca/?page_id=40)

---

### Post by staticsage on 2010-10-20
I saw some packages come through today for pulseaudio. Did anyone test this out after installing the updates?

---

### Post by mrchaos101 on 2010-10-20
> **staticsage said:**
> I saw some packages come through today for pulseaudio. Did anyone test this out after installing the updates?



NOPE! I installed the updates....thought it was gonna work...but sound poofed.

:(

---

### Post by mrchaos101 on 2010-10-21
Well. Im new to Ubuntu. How long till something like this is fixed?

I am sooo close to going back to 10.04... as a noob i see no reason to upgrade...i dont see any changes right off any way.

---

### Post by Spectre5 on 2010-10-21
Any luck yet staticsage?  Starcraft 2 worked perfect for me with 10.04 and now with 10.10, I have a similar issue.  Sound works at first, but stutters/lags a bit...then will sometimes just stop all together.

I've tried other programs via WINE, but they all work perfect still.  Videos, mp3, and everything else still works too...just not SC2.  I've tried to re-install and I've tried a ton of other things.  I posted about it here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1602055](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1602055)

Have you had any luck yet?  I'm thinking of switching back to 10.04, but I'd really rather not...

---

### Post by staticsage on 2010-10-22
I've been messing with some of the development builds for pulseaudio and I still have no luck. I had music playing while I was in SC2 and that stuttered as well when SC2 lost sound. After that happened the music eventually went back to normal but SC2 had no sound.

I am going to try compiling wine with pulseaudio support. I might have to do a fresh install of 10.04.

---

### Post by staticsage on 2010-10-22
I'm pretty sure I just fixed it... I played a full game with no issues after installing the patched version of wine from this ppa: [https://launchpad.net/~c-korn/+archive/ppa](https://launchpad.net/~c-korn/+archive/ppa)

sudo add-apt-repository ppa:c-korn
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install wine1.3

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-10-22
Just to add my confirmation that the above ppa also fixed audio in Wine for me. Diablo2 game now has audio for the first time in many months. Doing some more exploration now, and hope this fixed all the audio problems. Thanks to all of you for this thread.

---

### Post by Spectre5 on 2010-10-23
No such luck for me :(

I had tried that before....I tried it again, but I still have audio problems (tried all of the audio options including pulseaudio).  Tried several windows modes and all of the rest of the "usual" stuff.  More and more, I'm thinking I'll just have to cave and get a giant external hard drive to back up my computer and just put 10.04 on it.  I've spent way to many hours searching and trying solutions, but to not avail!

---

### Post by rhysforge on 2010-10-27
oddly enough if you uncheck oss under the audio tab in winecfg  and only have alsa and pulsaudio check sound works.

---

### Post by staticsage on 2010-11-02
I found some more stuff... the fixes I listed previously did not actually correct my problem. I found that my problem was caused by a regression in the Ubuntu kernel that negatively affected my sound driver (snd_hda_intel).

I have an 82801JI Audio Controller:

```
$ sudo lshw -c sound
  *-multimedia            
       description: Audio device
       product: 82801JI (ICH10 Family) HD Audio Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 1b
       bus info: pci@0000:00:1b.0
       version: 00
       width: 64 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm msi pciexpress bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=HDA Intel latency=0
       resources: irq:70 memory:f7ff8000-f7ffbfff

```

If you have similar problems with the same hardware, you may benefit from updating your kernel. I installed this version from the kernel-ppa:
[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35.8-maverick/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35.8-maverick/)

You can't actually add this like a normal ppa, you have to download and install the debs. My install went like this:

```
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35.8-maverick/linux-headers-2.6.35-02063508-generic_2.6.35-02063508.201010291110_i386.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35.8-maverick/linux-headers-2.6.35-02063508_2.6.35-02063508.201010291110_all.deb
wget http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/v2.6.35.8-maverick/linux-image-2.6.35-02063508-generic_2.6.35-02063508.201010291110_i386.deb
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
```

If you run 64 bit, you still download the all.deb, but get the amd64.debs instead of the i386s.

**Before you try this, this is most likely a fix for this type of hardware only.**

Related bug IDs: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/545065](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/545065)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/659030](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/659030)

---

### Post by neils123 on 2010-11-30
Staticsage - just wanted to thank you for the solution you posted.  I was going out of my mind with the sound problems trying to run WoW after upgrading to 10.10.  My sound gear is the same as yours (seems to be standard on the ASUS P6T motherboard), and after applying the kernel patch you pointed out, my sound problems seem to have gone away.

I say seem, because as yet I've only gone for an hour.  However, that's a lot longer than it would take before it cut out previously (no longer than 10 minutes or so), so I do think that did it.  Thanks!

---

