---
title: "In 10.04 CD's and DVD's don't mount"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
After upgrading to 10.04, I can't get any optical discs (CD or DVD) to mount.  I have two drives and neither seems to work.  Both appear to do something when a disk in put in, but Ubuntu never comes up with the disk.  Rythmbox or others don't see them.

Any ideas?

Thanks.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-30
you have to tweak rights inside MountManager, install it if not yet

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
Ok.  I found MountManager (never heard of it before) and fired it up.  I can't see what it should say to auto-mount disks?

Thanks.

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-04-30
inside MountManager you have your partitions, select one and you will see on the right 2 tabs: general & advanced

general: check or uncheck depend on what you want

about your cd/dvd, you should see on the left: sr0 or so, select it and look at "who can mount the partition": choose what you need.

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
Ok.  I have added "Everybody" to who can access.

There is no mount point specified for the two drives.  That doesn't seem right ... at least to me.

Any other suggestions on what the attributes should be.

Thanks.

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
Should the drives be mounted as /media/cdrom0 and /media/cdrom1?

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
My /etc/fstab says this for the CD drives:

/dev/sr0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 noauto,users 0 0
/dev/sr1 /media/cdrom1 udf,iso9660 noauto,users 0 0

Doesn't this look like it should mount disks?

What am I doing wrong?

Thanks for any and all help.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-04-30
lucid is no longer by default using fstab entries for cd/dvd drives.

media that has a filesystem now mounts to /media/<volume label> and also by default there is no /media/cdrom0, /media/cdrom1 dir's created, nor a /media/cdrom link.

Maybe ck. your fstab and see if you still have entries, but no mountpoints.

sudo lshw -C disk may provide some info, ( with media inserted will show if it's being mounted at all, at the least will provide the device node and dev links to your drive(s)
if you can't figure it out and adjust as needed see what this file shows

/etc/udev/rules.d/70-persistent-cd.rules

Missed your post - 
maybe comment out the fstab entries or create create the mount dir.'s - I'd try the comment out first

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
Thanks everyone for the assistance.

I am not getting this.  Why don't these drives mount automatically?

Here is some output:

andrew@AustinPowers:/dev$ sudo lshw -C disk
  *-cdrom:0               
       description: DVD writer
       physical id: 0.0.0
       bus info: scsi@2:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom1
       logical name: /dev/cdrw1
       logical name: /dev/dvd1
       logical name: /dev/dvdrw1
       logical name: /dev/scd0
       logical name: /dev/sr0
       capabilities: audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r
       configuration: status=open
  *-cdrom:1
       description: DVD reader
       physical id: 0.1.0
       bus info: scsi@2:0.1.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom
       logical name: /dev/dvd
       logical name: /dev/scd1
       logical name: /dev/sr1
       capabilities: audio dvd
       configuration: status=open


My /etc/fstab tries to mount /dev/sr0 to /media/cdrom0 and /dev/sr1 to /media/cdrom1

That seems to make sense to me ... where do you think I am going wrong.

Many thanks.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-04-30
As I mentioned maybe try commenting out the fstab entries for the 2 drives (put a # at the beginning of the line for each cd/dvd drive

gksu gedit /etc/fstab

if unsure post fstab in a code box

Or
check and see if /media/cdrom0 and /media/cdrom1 exist
(I'd comment the fstab lines out

Do a restart after adjusting fstab or creating the dir.'s if not present

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
Yes, removing the lines from /etc/fstab worked perfectly.  I wonder why they were still in my fstab.

Anyway, I am back up and running.  I really appreciate all the help.

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
Ok, now after using my system for a while, or resuming from suspend, Ubuntu can't mound CD's or DVD's.  If I reboot the system, it seems to once again mount the disks.

This is frustrating.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
Sorry to keep updating this post.

I rebooted and loaded a CD which auto mounted and opened Sound Juicer.  Perfect.  Then while I was setting up the disk to rip, the disk was unmounted by Ubuntu and I can't get it to remount.  

This is getting frustrating.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2010-04-30
> This is getting frustrating.
I would say so.

I haven't done an 'upgrade' install myself, only fresh ones. Certainly the 'reusing' of the previous fstab seems to be improper - maybe a bug report on that should be made.

If the current issue is with audio cd's then they are handled a bit differently because of a lack of a filesystem so to speak.

The files (Track 1.wav, ect) should be found in ~/.gvfs/cdda mount on srX

So I guess one could look into differences between how 9.10 and 10.04 handle .gvfs...?

I think I may try an 'update' install this weekend
Did you go directly from 9.10 to 10.04 or some other route?

---

### Post by Rorie on 2010-04-30
Hi mc4man

I'm having CD drive problems too, from a 10.04 RC Live CD install. Here's my fstab...

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid -o value -s UUID' to print the universally unique identifier
# for a device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name
# devices that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=d81dc570-fbfd-4ce0-9be2-102dd3ffea71 /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /home was on /dev/sda6 during installation
UUID=a4a5f216-aec0-403a-aafe-7cf2f68eca10 /home           ext4    defaults        0       2
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=0f3d6355-e7f2-4dda-80e0-a7125b376737 none            swap    sw              0       0

Please help!

Cheers

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-04-30
> **mc4man said:**
> I would say so.

I think I may try an 'update' install this weekend
Did you go directly from 9.10 to 10.04 or some other route?

I did an upgrade from 9.10.  Funny you mention this.  When I "upgraded" to 9.10 I found some frustrating issues that caused me to download the image and do a clean install.  Just a pain to get everything set-up and installed again.

Might be a weekend project for the inner geek in me.

Thanks.

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-05-01
I just finished a clean install of 10.04 x64 from the latest image.

After installation and some setup, I tried to put in a DVD and it won't mount.  I tried a CD and the same issue.

Now I am completely out of ideas on how to solve this.  This shouldn't be hard.

Any ideas?

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-05-01
One try at installing the Medibuntu repository again and now I can get a CD to be mounted.  However, on its own several minutes later, it will "unmount" itself.  I can remove the CD, but then I can't get another disk to mount until I reboot the system.

What is going on here?  Anyone else with trouble like this?

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-05-01
I am having similar issues too.  CD/DVDs that won't mount, mostly, but occasionally they will, but then it seems to lose its ability to mount and unmount.  Have to go to command shells to try anything.

A larger issue is I am unable to place a blank DVD into the drive and have it 'seen', which means I can burn anything either.

Will keep reading.  This is the only thing about upgrading to 10.4 so far that has been a bug-a-boo.  Otherwise, pretty darned good...

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-05-01
Edit: I spoke too soon. I tried another test run trying to burn another cd, but the cd wasn't automounted in my regular burner. I put the same cd in my USB mounted burner and the was detected and automounted perfectly.

I wrote:
> [I]Hi,
This might be not the case for anyone/everyone in this thread, but I was having a difficult time with either the ext4 file system and/or the new partitioning scheme that ubuntu is using, most noteably when trying to burn ISO's. It either worked for me or it didn't. I reinstalled Lucid on a new ext3 filesystem created by Gparted and my cd burning/mounting problems disappeared. Using Gparted eliminated a 1mb unallocated space that I suspect that was part of my problems, that was orignally created by ubiquity (the ubuntu installer). The problems were occuring on a non-upgraded Lucid. Everything cd related works fine now.
See my original post for more info:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1465932](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1465932)

By the way, I have no fstab entries for my cdrom. (Clean installation of Lucid)[/I]

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-05-02
All:  I have given up for now.  I went and downloaded the latest 9.10 image and have reinstalled Karmic.  Everything works again.  Too bad as I like the new look and feel of the UI in Lucid.  

I checked out Launchpad and found this bug:  395470

Sounds similar.

Will try again.

---

### Post by ankspo71 on 2010-05-03
The closest matching bug I can find for me so far is here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/562092](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/562092)
Bug 395470 sounds appropriate too. Will be experimenting more in the morning.

---

### Post by jacrider on 2010-05-03
> **ankspo71 said:**
> The closest matching bug I can find for me so far is here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/562092](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/udev/+bug/562092)
Bug 395470 sounds appropriate too. Will be experimenting more in the morning.

You are right, that bug looks even closer.  I will watch it as well.  I would like to move back as I really liked the new look and feel.  However, I am back up and running quickly on 9.10.

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2010-05-08
I've tried both MountManager and messing with fstab, but I can't any DVD to mount.

I have the line  ```
/dev/sr0 /media udf,iso9660 noauto,users 0 0
``` in fstab.

```
sudo lshw -C disk
  *-cdrom                 
       description: DVD-RAM writer
       product: DVD RW AD-7560A
       vendor: Optiarc
       physical id: 0.0.0
       bus info: scsi@0:0.0.0
       logical name: /dev/cdrom
       logical name: /dev/cdrw
       logical name: /dev/dvd
       logical name: /dev/dvdrw
       logical name: /dev/scd0
       logical name: /dev/sr0
       version: DS05
       capabilities: removable audio cd-r cd-rw dvd dvd-r dvd-ram
       configuration: ansiversion=5 status=nodisc
```

```
sudo mount /dev/sr0 /media
mount: /dev/sr0: unknown device
```

same thing happens whether the line in fstab is commented out or not.

---

### Post by Direxion on 2010-05-22
Same issue here (after 10.04 clean install) however not just with the opticals but also all USB drives.  After attempting a few of the various recommended fixes I've also abandoned 10.04 and reinstalled 9.10 (which worked flawlessly).  Whats interesting is that the 10.04 live session automounted just fine.

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2010-05-29
Any solutions to this? I could use one...

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-05-29
> **alejandro.mc said:**
> Any solutions to this? I could use one...

I gave up and had to move back to 9.10.  And, I had to make this recommendation to a slew of clients too, some of whom were experiencing these upgrade woes.  If there had been even a little response from the community on possible solutions, I would have tried to press forward.  But with a problem that seems to have affected a slice of the Ubuntu community, and no responses, I had no choice.  Usually I will slug it out and find the solutions which I have been really quite happy to do.  But after two rocky upgrades in a row, I didn't feel like slugging it out this time, with no responses from anyone in the community to shed some light on this.

Sorry I couldn't offer a better solution than to 'go backwards'.

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2010-05-29
In Argentina we have a saying:

"El ojo del amo engorda el ganado"

It means "the eye of the owner/boss fattens/it makes more fat/rich the cattle". 

It appears that the boss is not running the show anymore..

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-05-29
> **alejandro.mc said:**
> In Argentina we have a saying:

"El ojo del amo engorda el ganado"

It means "the eye of the owner/boss fattens/it makes more fat/rich the cattle". 

It appears that the boss is not running the show anymore..


I would hope this is not so.  Ubuntu is a terrific model.  I know this kind of thing is very hard to maintain.  Very complex.  Let's hope the owner 'eyes' the bosses and these niggling issues are resolved.  They are process issues of course.

---

### Post by TroN-0074 on 2010-06-26
I have the same problem with my CD/DVD r+w will appreciate more ideas

---

### Post by drhiii on 2010-06-26
> **TroN-0074 said:**
> I have the same problem with my CD/DVD r+w will appreciate more ideas


My solution was to give up, with all my clients, and went back to 9.04.

This was two broken upgrades in a row, so I had to adopt the stop upgrading policy unfortunately.

---

