---
title: "14.04 firefox/chrome/chromium will not play video on TVNZ OnDemand"
date: 2014-10-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by glenn9 on 2014-10-24
Hi Team

I have just installed Ubuntu 14.04.01 LTS after spending a couple of years using Windows again. I was not able to play video using youtube.com or tvnz.co.nz/video which is something that I do daily. I remembered from previous ubuntu usage that the installation of the ubuntu-restricted-extras usually helped with issues in the browsers. I done this but it still wouldn't play the video on tvnz.co.nz/video - I looked through a couple of different forum posts about it and they both referred to installing hal and adding the manual repository line in terminal which last night worked fine.... since then I have installed a couple of others things (gimp,vlc and chrome) but today I can't seem to get it working at all. I have tried reversing thru things I have done since installing ubuntu to try and eliminate whatever is causing the problem but nothing seems to be working.

I am currently using chrome which has Flash Player v 15.0.0.189 installed and enabled. I have checked (as some other posts had said to do) for any other versions of flash but nothing else seems to be enabled or installed that could be causing problems. hal is installed and I have even tried a full remove and re-install with no luck...

I would really like to get this working as it's one of the sites I use daily and would hate for this to cause me to give up on ubuntu. My only linux geek friend said he was unable to help because it was something to do with Microsoft Silverlight; not sure if that helps but thats my problem.

---

### Post by vasa1 on 2014-10-25
> **glenn9 said:**
> ... I was not able to play video using youtube.com or tvnz.co.nz/video which is something that I do daily. ... but it still wouldn't play the video on tvnz.co.nz/video. ...
Does youtube also not work or is it only tvnz.co.nz that doesn't work with Google Chrome?

I could see a video here: [http://tvnz.co.nz/news-video](http://tvnz.co.nz/news-video) using Google Chrome version 38.0.2125.104 (64-bit)

---

### Post by glenn9 on 2014-10-25
youtube.com plays fine and I can view the video in your link as its different to the ondemand videos - tvnz.co.nz will not play any video at all aside from clip like news video like that one.

 I am using Chrome [COLOR=#303942][FONT=Ubuntu]38.0.2125.104 (64-bit) I also have the latest Firefox installed, along with Chromium but trying to watch ondemand TV via tvnz.co.nz/video does not work in any of my browsers.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by jawilljr2 on 2014-10-25
[Does this thread help?](http://askubuntu.com/questions/472105/protected-videos-are-not-working-on-ubuntu-14-04-on-tvnz-on-demand)

Hope it does, as it seams tvnz need HAL.

[Here is a blog on the same issue.](http://deepweb.co.nz/2014/04/15/how-to-fix-drm-playback-issues-on-linux/)

---

### Post by glenn9 on 2014-10-26
> **jawilljr2 said:**
> [Does this thread help?]("http://askubuntu.com/questions/472105/protected-videos-are-not-working-on-ubuntu-14-04-on-tvnz-on-demand")

Hope it does, as it seams tvnz need HAL.

[Here is a blog on the same issue.]("http://deepweb.co.nz/2014/04/15/how-to-fix-drm-playback-issues-on-linux/")

Thanks but those two links both refer to what I have already done. I installed 14.04 then done this prior to installing a few applications and ubuntu-restricted-extras and haven't been able to get it working again since. I tried reversing the things I had added since with no luck.

---

