---
title: "DNS nameserver trouble on Ubuntu Server 13.10"
date: 2014-02-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by androssofer on 2014-02-07
Hi All,

So I'm running Ubuntu Server 13.10 and I installed DNS crypt, which installed ok (i think), so all I need to do is set my nameserver to 127.0.0.1 (localhost). 

So  I changed /etc/network/interfaces to list my new dns nameservers. My file is as follows:

```
# This file describes the network interfaces available on your system
# and how to activate them. For more information, see interfaces(5).

# The loopback network interface
auto lo
iface lo inet loopback

# The primary network interface
auto eth0
iface eth0 inet dhcp

dns-nameservers 127.0.0.1 208.67.222.222 208.67.220.220
```

(208.67.222.222 208.67.220.220) are openDNS nameservers, I was trying to flood it with nameservers in the hope it would work.

however after I restart 192.168.0.1 is still listed as the primary nameserver in /etc/resolv.conf. File is as follows:

```
# Dynamic resolv.conf(5) file for glibc resolver(3) generated by resolvconf(8)
#     DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE BY HAND -- YOUR CHANGES WILL BE OVERWRITTEN
nameserver 192.168.0.1
nameserver 127.0.0.1
```

I searched the issue, but only seem to find results about not manually editing resolv.conf anymore. And how to install Bind. 

any help appreciated.

---

### Post by Doug S on 2014-02-07
I would be tempted to try to tackle your issue via the /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf file instead of, or perhaps in addition to, the /etc/network/interfaces file. Also use the /var/lib/dhcp/dhclient.eth0.leases file for feedback as to what is going on.

Probably, your /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf is asking for domain name servers in its request for a lease. Look for the "request" and/or "require" lines and for "domain-name-servers" within it. Try removing it, and use the /var/lib/dhcp/dhclient.eth0.leases file to observe what options come with a new or renewed lease, and /etc/resolv.conf to observe the final result. Then/or try to add a "supersede" line with "domain-name-servers 127.0.0.1" to force what you want.

---

### Post by androssofer on 2014-02-07
worked a treat!

removed "domain-name-servers" from the request section in /etc/dhcp/dhclient.conf, rebooted.

127.0.0.1 now the only nameserver in resolv.conf

thanks!

---

### Post by Iowan on 2014-02-07
Are "we" ready to mark it [[SOLVED]]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/UnansweredPostsTeam/SolvedThreads")?

---

