---
title: "[12.10] Issues with logging out and Nanny.."
date: 2012-11-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by micah1104 on 2012-11-18
Hello, I have a few problems here.

First: I compiled and installed nanny (the parental control tool) and it didn't work at all. Gave me a bunch of errors. So I uninstalled using ```
sudo make uninstall
``` (I believe). Now whenever I logout of the X session, or if I run the command ```
sudo killall Xorg
``` half the time it works perfectly, the other half comes back with a bunch of errors, something along the lines of ```
Error on line 405: /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/twisted/application/service.py  /usr/local/nanny*: no such file or directory
``` I don't remember the path to the nanny files it was complaining about. I will have to get back on that computer and try to recreate the problem (which I know I can easily do). I went into the service.py file, but I could not find anything helpful in there. Nothing directly related to nanny. I didn't have much time to actually study the file, so I might have missed something.

Anyways. After I get all those errors, I cannot do anything with the graphical part of the computer until I reboot it, either with the hardware button or ```
sudo reboot
```. And this is very annoying. I JUST reinstalled the OS, twice. Because the first time to wipe the whole drive and get rid of Windoze. The second time because I installed Amahi to test it out, and it basically ruined my computer. And now Nanny is messing with my install.

I have a second issue: I tried logging in and it would give me the "couldn't load session 'ubuntu'", or something like that. I ran the command ```
sudo apt-get install ubuntu-desktop --reinstall
``` and that fixed it. But, the little gear from the upper right corner (where we access the user switcher and the logout, lock, reboot buttons). How would I get that back? or do I need to create a new thread for this?

---

