---
title: "Nvidia drivers upgraded, blank screen after boot"
date: 2009-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by metalpanda@live.com on 2009-10-13
I'm running Ubuntu 9.04 on my macbook pro 5-5.
I've been trying to get everything running on it, and I installed the Nvidia driver x86 190.36 (Nvidia-Linux-x86-190.36-pkg0.run)
Once I installed and tried to run it it said it had "failed". 
I rebooted and tried to run but after the ubuntu load screen I get a black screen instead of a login page.

Sorry, I'm relatively new to linux, but how would I recover my graphics drivers as they were?

---

### Post by metalpanda@live.com on 2009-10-13
bump

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2009-10-13
When you get to the blank screen press ctrl+alt+f1 to get a terminal login.

Then run the following commands: ```
sudo rmmod nvidia
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
sudo shutdown -r now
```

Upon rebooting you should get back to your old GUI with the nv drivers.

As for when it comes to installing nVidia drivers that work I currently use the 190.25 drivers and they work fine - how ever if you want to play it safe I would recommend sticking with the 185.xx.xx drivers.

Best of Luck,
~Jeff

---

### Post by metalpanda@live.com on 2009-10-13
When I try pressing Ctrl-alt-F1 it does not do anything.
Is it because I'm on a macbook pro as compared to a pc based keyboard configuration?

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2009-10-13
Ahh right - try adding the function (fn) key to ctrl+alt+f1. Macbooks are goofy and are backwards from everything else with their function keys+f keys

~Jeff

---

### Post by metalpanda@live.com on 2009-10-13
I tried that and it still wont work :/
I've even thrown the command button in there

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2009-10-13
Ahh, do you have a live CD laying around? If so you can go in and manually edit the xorg.conf to use the old drivers.

Let me know if you want to take this route since it appears your terminal login is not working.

~Jeff

---

### Post by metalpanda@live.com on 2009-10-13
I do have a live CD, but can I edit files while in a live session?

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2009-10-13
Yes you can, boot to the live disc and open your hard drive and edit the xorg.conf located in "/etc/X11/xorg.conf"

Set the driver in the file to "nv" then try rebooting onto the normal system.

~Jeff

---

### Post by metalpanda@live.com on 2009-10-13
my hard drive is registered as "39.2 GB Media"
under that I find the specified file and it has this:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier    "Default Screen"
    Monitor        "Configured Monitor"
    Device        "Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Also, it will not let me delete files on the linux filesystem "39.2GB Media", so will it let me edit this file?

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2009-10-13
I think the easiest fix will to copy over a copy of the xorg.conf from the liveCD install over your current one. To gain permission to over write the file on your hard drive use ```
gksudo nautilus
``` and use the Window it opens to copy over the new file.

Oh, and sorry for the sluggish response got caught in a rather boring class hehehe

~Jeff

---

### Post by Havage on 2009-10-14
I had the same problem as the OP and am also a novice linux user. I tried to make the change as you described it but when I navigated to the etc/X11 folder on the CD with Nautilus, I couldn't find the xorg.conf file to copy/paste from there.

So, after mounting my HDD, I opened a terminal and navigated to the etc/X11 and did 'sudo gedit xorg.conf' and it gave me permission to edit the file and rename the drive to 'nv'.

So, now it boots ok and I can see the screen again (woot).

This time when I went to enable the device driver, instead of the 185, I chose 173 and it installed and worked on reboot. When I log in I see 16.7M colors enabled and max resolution, etc....

**BUT **I dont think it is actually showing in 16.7M colors because at the log-on screen I can see color boundaries and lack of gradients in the image. I browsed to this image to confirm that it is not just the log on screen but when logged in also.

[http://resa.linux-hardcore.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/10/KarmicKoala-NewLoginScreen-Part1-SunVirtualBox.png]("http://resa.linux-hardcore.com/wp-content/uploads/2009/10/KarmicKoala-NewLoginScreen-Part1-SunVirtualBox.png")

I will search to see if this problem is known or if its just me, etc.

[Please excuse my rambling first post :P]

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2009-10-14
So just to be sure I under your issues - you have the nVidia 185 drivers installed properly but your color contrasts are messed up for some reason?

~Jeff

---

### Post by Havage on 2009-10-14
Up until 3 minutes ago I was using 173 and 185 was not working. 

In another thread someone posted that a fix for the 185 had been implemented 2 hrs ago so I ran update manager (it was there) then ran Jocky and switched to 185. 

Now 185 works but my colors still look crappy as if its showing with 65K instead of 16M.

---

### Post by beastrace91 on 2009-10-14
What card and which 185 driver do you have?

~Jeff

---

### Post by Havage on 2009-10-14
Drivers: 185.18.36
Card: eVGA Geforce 9500GT

But I think I figured out why the colors looked like crap, I tried changing the cable between VGA <-> DVI [suggestion of another person on the forum] and discovered that one once cable vs another I was seeing a difference in color gradients and in text fuzziness.

So, messed with my monitors color settings and adjusted some of the parameters in the NVidia settings and now have a more or less color gradient with light boundary affect.

I consider the problem "solved" to a satisfactory level. Thanks for the help Jeff.

Regards,
Leo

---

