---
title: "15.04 (Vivid Vervet) - Java stuck on FUTEX_WAIT"
date: 2015-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Paul_Blair on 2015-05-14
[FONT=arial]I have been using the IntelliJ IDEA IDE (a Java application) on Ubuntu with Oracle Java for some time, most recently with jdk.1.8.0_45. After upgrading to Ubuntu 15.04 the IDE has become unusable. When  opening any project in IDEA, the system monitor shows one processor core pegged at 100% (one of 8 cores) . Attempting to open any application after  that point does not succeed and the desktop hangs. (Applications opened  before opening the project in IDEA still function up to the point that  any new application is opened.)

This also happens with various other Java applications (e.g., eclipse, gradle builds) but not all of them. It also happens with earlier versions of Java.

If I run "sudo perf top" I see one performance counter in the red, with overhead that rapidly climbs over 50%. It is 

[FONT=courier new]libjvm.so     _ZN20SafepointSynchronize5beginEv[/FONT]

Running strace tells me that the IDEA process is stuck in FUTEX_WAIT:

[/FONT][FONT=courier new]futex(0x7f9fa9f299d0, FUTEX_WAIT, 5002, NULL[/FONT][FONT=arial] 

strace on process 5002 gives me:
[/FONT][FONT=arial][FONT=courier new]
futex(0x7f9fa4169a54, FUTEX_WAIT_PRIVATE, 1,[/FONT][FONT=courier new] NULL[/FONT]

which looks very similar to this problem <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/mechanical-sympathy/QbmpZxp6C64>. However, the fix for that problem is supposed to have gone into the 3.18 kernel and I'm on Linux 3.19.0-16-generic.

I would like to report this issue using apport and whoopsie. However, the crash dump that's generated contains "UnreportableReason: This package does not seem to be installed correctly" and this prevents apport from reporting the issue. 

It is unclear to me what package is not installed correctly. If it's Oracle java, it can't be installed through the package manager, and has to be downloaded from Oracle and extracted from a tarball. From everything I can see it's in the right place, with the right ownership and permissions.

Any suggestions about how to either fix this or submit a bug report?
[/FONT]

---

### Post by Paul_Blair on 2015-05-15
Some additional information:


1. If I start Linux with the 3.16.0-34 kernel I don't see the problem.


2. Apparently I was not using strace to print the status of child PIDs, so the FUTEX_WAIT for the top-level thread may not have been the issue. Unfortunately, when I use strace with -F to get the child PID status, I no longer see the issue – IDEA finishes indexing the workspace, I no longer see 100% load on one core, and everything continues fine (until I abort strace, at which point the issue returns as soon as I try to do anything in the IDE).


I've filed a bug with Oracle so hopefully they'll figure it out.

---

### Post by tux_mark_5 on 2015-07-26
I have the same problem here.

Running "taskset 0x800 ./idea" seems to sort-of fix the issue, but then idea runs somewhat slow.

If you figure out how to properly fix the issue, please post the solution here.

---

### Post by Paul_Blair on 2015-07-31
I uninstalled the fglrx driver and rebooted without any driver installed. Everything seems to be working properly in software rendering mode. Will experiment with reinstalling fglrx and the open source Radeon driver.

---

### Post by Paul_Blair on 2015-07-31
Unfortunately, whatever it was that I did when I uninstalled the driver, seems to be completely irreproducible. I've kept up with IntelliJ, Java and Ubuntu updates and so far they haven't helped either, so I'm not sure what to do next. (Running IDEA with [FONT=courier new]taskset 0x80 ./idea.sh[/FONT] also works for me, even though I still see only one processor as pegged in the system monitor.)

---

### Post by Dmitriy_Lyubimov on 2016-01-26
Paul, did you find any resolution to this?

I am also on Haswell extreme cpu and also with an ATI video card and having the same extremely unfortunate issue with IDEA getting frozen (usually after it starts indexing). 

The affected configurations: default kernel with kubuntu 15.10, kernels 3.16, 3.19, 4.20 on kubuntu 14 LTS. Also either grlx or "wrapper" open source driver.

I also have updated the bios on my MSI x99A MB to the latest as of this moment and checked "Intel microcode" on the driver page of 15.10, none of which had any effect (in case it is some Haswell patched microcode, no, it does not seem to be the case).

Also tried with java 8 and 7. Java 7 seems to be affected a little less (subjectively, the occurrence a little bit less spurious) but it is just as show stopping as the total freeze does eventually happen. Impossible to work.

The one and only configuration that seemed to work for me was the last available 3.13 kernel. Something happened with kernel/driver code after that (and it actually became even worse in the ubuntu 15.10 -- there, it locks up not just one process but also the entire X environment, the only way i can unlock it is to log in via text console and kill off the java process). 

I have a nagging suspicion that it has something to do with my very aged graphic card (radeon 5450) in combination with some kernel/driver bug, so i ordered an nvidia-based card and will check if i can run current kernels with it at the end of this week. My suspicion is based on the following facts: (1) the incidence of this kind seems rare overall on the internet, which points to a specific hardware/driver combination; (2) my windows 10 works fine pointing to probably no specific hardware issues; (3) headless java processes that do not interact with any AWT code do not have this same rate of incidence (unless there's already frozen java process somewhere).

hope this helps.

---

### Post by Dmitriy_Lyubimov on 2016-01-29
Yes, it is confirmed. 

At least in my case, there seems to be strange conflict between java AWT applications, kernels >= 3.16, intel haswell E and open source radeon driver. As soon as i put in nvidia 730 chipset and started using nuveau driver, all ill effects are gone. As soon as i go back to my dual core platform, or go back to kernel 3.16, all effects are also gone.

i guess radeon support is not nearly as robust with ubuntu kernels/drivers as the Nvidia's one.

---

### Post by Dmitriy_Lyubimov on 2016-02-01
Hm. today i started experiencing hangs in intellij, java 1.8 again even with nuveau driver and latest kernel 4.2.0. Strange, it worked for a while but it looks like it worked into a condition when it gets hung again, since it now happens every time I launch the intellij. will try to roll the kernel back again.

---

### Post by Dmitriy_Lyubimov on 2016-02-02
also i can confirm that i observe the same behavior as reported in this thread now with kernel 4.2.0: [https://intellij-support.jetbrains.com/hc/en-us/community/posts/206606235-CLion-hang-scanning-files-to-index-on-Ubuntu-15-04-when-opening-project](https://intellij-support.jetbrains.com/hc/en-us/community/posts/206606235-CLion-hang-scanning-files-to-index-on-Ubuntu-15-04-when-opening-project).

After switching to nvidia graphics it still occurs with newer kernel 4.2.0 but only after i reboot after windows 10 without powering off. This is 100% confirmed.

This is puzzling but perhaps points even more to some bad mojo in the graphics area. (I am now running nouveau in OpenGL 3.1 mode, which seems to be most stable for me.

---

