---
title: "12.04 battery icon only shows if computer is charged"
date: 2013-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by at2341 on 2013-01-06
Been trying all day, but tired, have read pretty much everything but still stuck:

12.04, can't get the battery icon on gnome classic. Have tried wmbattery, xbatt. Have tried all that was written via google searches. What happens is I can see the battery icon when  I plug into the charger, and then can unplug and the icon will stay. However, next time I restart ubuntu, I don't see a battery icon, until I again plug into charger., again the icon will stay (even if unplugged). but I'll have to plug back in to see icon at next restart.

So for some reason, the battery is not recognized until I try to charge it. Then ubuntu recognizes and shows the battery icon.  Also have noticed under system settings/power, I've tried to change setting on battery display to "present" but this is consistently not saved/recognized by ubuntu.

Your help is sincerely appreciated as I'm completely out of patience/ideas.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-06
Think you just adjust the preferences in the regular battery icon. You can set it to only show when charging, never show, or always show ...

---

### Post by at2341 on 2013-01-07
Hello, no luck with going to power settings and changing anything. I change it but the changes are never saved under system settings, power.

Also when I plug into charger, and then take the charger out, the battery icon stays. So its not a matter of the battery icon only being there when plugged in. For some reason, the netboook(acer) doesn't recognize the battery until plugged in. Once plugged in, I can remove the charger, and still keep the icon

any ideas appreciated as been chasing my tail on this one.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2013-01-07
Have you removed all power management apps but one? Just use the default (the one that was Ubuntu default) and make sure all the rest are gone. You might need to restart and then try setting the preferences again.

---

