---
title: "video suddenly started going haywire"
date: 2006-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by movement on 2006-05-10
Hardware:
Micron TransPort GX+ laptop
850 MHz, 20GB HD, 384MB RAM

I installed Breezy Badger on this laptop a few months ago and everything was working fine.  Two nights ago I went through a round of patches and updates and everything appeared to be working normally.  I shut down the machine normally, but the next day, I ran into all sorts of video problems.

Symptoms:
If I open the Synaptic Package Manager, I get white vertical stripes across the monitor (see attachment).  I can see the package manager enough to use it, but it is difficult.  Update: if I keep opening, closing, and reopening, eventually the screen freezes.
If I open Mozilla or Firefox, the screen freezes.
Some applications such as FreeCiv do not appear to have a negative affect.

Since I am new to administering my own LINUX installation, I don't even know where to begin to repair this problem. I pulled my WIFI card and external mouse in case they had something to do with the problem, but that had no effect.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by movement on 2007-05-30
Since I was unable to resolve the problem I had last year, I abandoned the laptop and did other things.  A year passed and I figured I'd give it another shot using Feisty Fawn.  I reinstalled from scratch and now I am stuck in
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FixVideoResolutionHowto")
According to the manual at [http://support.mpccorp.com/apps/compdet.asp?partno=EMA001000-00]("http://support.mpccorp.com/apps/compdet.asp?partno=EMA001000-00")
the native resolution for the screen is 1400x1050.  However, I'm only getting 1024x768.  
The ddcprobe application is not helping my situation - it is not even reporting the video mode I am expecting.

> 
 sudo ddcprobe
vbe: VESA 2.0 detected.
oem: S3 Incorporated. M7 BIOS
memory: 16384kb
mode: 640x400x256
mode: 640x480x256
mode: 800x600x16
mode: 800x600x256
mode: 1024x768x16
mode: 1024x768x256
mode: 1280x1024x16
mode: 1280x1024x256
mode: 320x200x64k
mode: 320x200x16m
mode: 640x480x64k
mode: 640x480x16m
mode: 800x600x64k
mode: 800x600x16m
mode: 1024x768x64k
mode: 1024x768x16m
mode: 1280x1024x64k
mode: 1280x1024x16m
mode: 1600x1200x256
mode: 1600x1200x64k
Calling INT 0x15 (F000:5939)
 EAX is 0x5F15
Calling INT 0x15 (F000:5939)
 EAX is 0x5F15
edid: 
edidfail


I tried sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but it rendered my x-server unstartable.  I had to revert the /etc/X11/xorg.conf file.  Perhaps it is possible to use this properly, but I do not know what to enter and accepting the defaults obviously is insufficient.  
Here are the current contents of xorg.conf FWIW:
> cat xorg.conf
# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf(5) manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/cyrillic"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi/:unscaled"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/Type1"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/100dpi"
        FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/75dpi"
        # path to defoma fonts
        FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load    "i2c"
        Load    "bitmap"
        Load    "ddc"
        Load    "dri"
        Load    "extmod"
        Load    "freetype"
        Load    "glx"
        Load    "int10"
        Load    "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "ZAxisMapping"          "4 5"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "stylus"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "stylus"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "eraser"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "eraser"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "cursor"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "cursor"
        Option          "ForceDevice"   "ISDV4"         # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "S3 Inc. 86C270-294 Savage/IX-MV"
        Driver          "savage"
        BusID           "PCI:1:1:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Generic Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        HorizSync       28-51
        VertRefresh     43-60
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Device          "S3 Inc. 86C270-294 Savage/IX-MV"
        Monitor         "Generic Monitor"
        DefaultDepth    16
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           1
                Modes           "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           4
                Modes           "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           8
                Modes           "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           15
                Modes           "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           16
                Modes           "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
        SubSection "Display"
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1400x1050" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "Default Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "stylus"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "cursor"        "SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "eraser"        "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "DRI"
        Mode    0666
EndSection


What do you suggest I try next?

---

### Post by movement on 2007-05-31
I had the live CD for the older installation (Breezy Badger) so I ran it.  It turns out Feisty Fawn failed to auto-detect the Horiz-Sync value correctly.  I updated the value, refreshed, and I was good to go!

It is a little troubling that FF was unable to do this properly, but at this point, I'm just happy to have the full resolution back.  Hopefully I don't get a recurrence of the problem that started this whole thread.

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2007-05-31
Thanks for posting.  Your troubleshooting skills will help others.  It's possible that Feisty has dropped older hardware detection which would explain the problems that you had.

If you have a working system and you upgrade, make a backup of /etc and use it to compare settings of configuration files.  This may save you some grief!

---

