---
title: "(12.04) An ad has superimposed itself onto my open windows.  WTF?"
date: 2012-06-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2012-06-09
What is this?  I went to a site (a forum) and one of their ads has superimposed itself onto nearly every window I open.  Sometimes I can see the whole ad, sometimes just part of it.  The site it came from is an open tab and only does it as long as I have the site in a tab in the background (background meaning that it's not the active tab at the moment)-closing that tab kills it.

What's up with this?  Am I infected or something?  What the?

This has happened off and on for a few weeks.  Restarting the computer rids it until it comes back way later.

One more thing:
It only happens with this particular website.  It's a reputable site too.  


Help!

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-06-09
No screen shot?

Have you tried cleaning the cache and cookies from the browser?

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2012-06-09
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> No screen shot?

Have you tried cleaning the cache and cookies from the browser?

<snip>
Sorry about the <snip>, I just took it out.

Cleaning the cache and cookies?  Nope but I will and see if it stops.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-06-09
> **pretty_whistle said:**
> <snip>

Cleaning the cache and cookies?  Nope but I will and see if it stops.

Cool, thanks, hope that gets it cleaned up.

---

### Post by lisati on 2012-06-09
> **wilee-nilee said:**
> Cool, thanks, hope that gets it cleaned up.

It could be coincidence, but a spambot found its way to this thread, now cleaned up a bit and spam banned. :D

---

### Post by sanderj on 2012-06-09
"onto nearly every window"? Or "onto nearly every **webbrowser **window" and only at the moment you visit that site again?

And if it only happens on that site, and the site is reputable, why not ask that site? Otherwise, find a popup blocker (if that helps), or do not visit the site.

---

### Post by wojox on 2012-06-09
what's the site?

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2012-06-09
> **sanderj said:**
> "onto nearly every window"? Or "onto nearly every **webbrowser **window" and only at the moment you visit that site again?


It was in every window like my Thunderbird email I had minimized, keepass (a password manager I use), and also in every tab in the browser.

It's gone now.  Hope it stays that way.

---

### Post by pretty_whistle on 2012-06-09
> **wojox said:**
> what's the site?
[www.topix.net/forum/topstories](www.topix.net/forum/topstories)

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2012-06-10
Hehe a terrible site in general from a quick look, but a pass with wot and no super imposed anything, but I'm using noscript and adblock.

To each is own for critical thinking I guess. ;)

---

