---
title: "9.10 NBR boots to initramfs prompt after update- help!"
date: 2010-02-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by blur xc on 2010-02-07
My daughter has an Asus Eee-PC that I set up w/ a dual boot of Win XP home edition and 9.10 NBR.  For most things, because of the screen resolution she just uses XP (it has a 1024 x 768 compress mode, where 9.10 only does 1024 x 600 making some online games un-playable) so a lot of time has past since she's booted into Ubuntu.  Last night she wanted to play Frozen Bubble so I booted her into Ubuntu, and after doing a sudo aptitude update, decided to do a sudo aptitude safe-upgrade first before installing anything new.  After it was done, I rebooted, and it failed a few times.  I tried different kernels with the same result.  So, then I tried to boot into recovery mode and only got as far as the initramfs prompt.

Now I burned a new nbr usb boot stick, and booted in try ubuntu w/o installing mode.  sudo fdisk -l shows all my partitions as does gparted. (I'd post the output of the commands, but I'm on my desktop, and the netbook won't seem to get online running from the live usb stick).  sudo blkid shows all my partitions EXCEPT /dev/sda5 (my ubuntu boot partition).  sudo blkid /dev/sda5 gives no output.

I edited the /etc/fstab to look for /dev/sda5 instead of the drive by it's UUID andI tried to assign a new uuid from some instructions I found on the internet, and I think that might have made matters worse.  Still blkid shows no UUID for /dev/sda5 but now when I try to boot from ANY grub menu item, (and each highlighted grub menu item blink) it says "error: not a directory".  That even includes the XP partition.

I set the /etc/fstab back to what it was and it still won't boot into anything.

I just had a thought though, maybe I can try to assign the UUID from the /etc/fstab back to sda5...

Anyway- I would REALLY appreciate any help anyone can give me...

Thanks,
BM

---

### Post by blur xc on 2010-02-07
So, I'm doing some more digging- and I wonder if the problem occurred partly because partition sda5 is on an extended partition, sda4.  I looked in the disk utility and it shows both sda4 and sda5 and unrecognized space.

Here are the screenshots...

Thanks,
BM

---

### Post by blur xc on 2010-02-07
update:  After changing the uuid of sda5 back to what it was in /etc/fstab I can now boot into XP.  None of the linux selections from the grub menu work though.  I think something got messed up w/ either the sda4 or sda5 partition...

Thanks,
BM

---

### Post by blur xc on 2010-02-08
bump

---

### Post by blur xc on 2010-02-09
bump

---

### Post by matthewgardner on 2010-02-16
(not sure what "bump" means?!?!  You seem to have solved your problem by accident.  I wonder if anyone has a more tangible solution/explanation of why we can't boot into Ubuntu anymore?!?)

I have a similar problem with my usb live stick now that I did a software update.  

I am running 9.10 UNR on an Acer Aspire One....   

To be honest, when I mount the stick on another linux computer I can see all of the files and directories...  When i go into gparted to look at the drive it lists the entire usb stick as "unallocated"?!?  Hmmmmm......

[IMG]http://ubuntuforums.org/attachment.php?attachmentid=147347&stc=1&d=1266398900[/IMG]

What is that whacky new naming of my pendrive:  OE91-B56C?!?!

That's gotta be part of the problem...

I have been looking all over the internet for 2 days., but no real solution for people running from USB live sessions, just for people using internal hard drives with true installations...

I have found many people with this same problem who have resorted to reinstalling the entire OS rather than waiting for a viable solution.

I refuse to do a complete reinstall as I spent hours and days making my desktop, menus, launchers, and preferences just right.

I shoulda/coulda/woulda made a disk image right before i did the software update (so I could have a backup - next time I will!!!!)

Either way, I can't believe it won't boot now...  (I thought Karmic Koala was ready for the masses!!!  Really?!? An update renders my pendrive useless?!?!)

I know there is a simple solution out there for pointing the bootloader back in the right direction...

I am almost positive the problem has to do with some default boot settings pointing to the grub to my internal sata drive...  I definitely only chose to have the grub installed (when the checkboxes came up toward the end of the software update) to the USB pendrive /dev/sdb  Maybe the new grub2 update isn't expecting me to be running from a live usb drive, and is looking for a live system on the internal windows xp OEM drive which I never mount during my live sessions  (For that matter I never ever want to touch - no wubi - nothing - not at all - it's my wife's computer by day and my linux box by night - LOL!).

It must be a grub2 problem...  because I run live on a persistent USB I am not normally used to even seeing a grub menu on bootup...   it usually just goes right into the live session on boot-up after I select language and "try Ubuntu" (basically I click "enter" twice on bootup - anyone also know a trick to shorten the countdown from 30seconds to 1 or 0 seconds...  better yet, some code to default pressing "enter" twice on bootup would do the trick to for me...  I worry that someone will turn the computer on and choose to install by accident and really ruin my day - Maybe that's the next step for Ubuntu is to make it so your live cd choice was remembered on all future sessions)

As long as we're on the subject, I can't hibernate at all either.  This time i'm using a 4GB device, but that's because the usb live installer program made my 8gb stick persistent, but in the settings it didn't allow me to go above 4gb total, so it left the additional 4 gb unallocated, and it certainly didn't create a 1gb swap partition for me to be able to hibernate (i have 1gb of RAM installed on the system so ideally I was hoping for a 7GB persistent drive with a 1GB swap partition - Calgon take me Away!!).

I really need to make my usb live installation more reliable & consistent before i can see giving it to my colleagues, let alone to my Noo Yawk Mutha.

Most people don't have the determination and patience required to deal with Linux at all...

To get people away from Windows and Mac - these bootable usb setups need to behave seamlessly from computer to computer, from session to session, from upgrade to upgrade.

Linux shouldn't become a full time job for people!  (or too off in left field with the interface like Moblin)

I would love to get a disk image of a distro that's already got the killer setup and updates all stabilized and running solid, ie. I put a DVD in the drive and I watch a movie or connect my mp3 player and i'm in business like with how F-Spot interacts with my digital cameras...   I'm a little sick of this red-headed step child treatment in America on Linux with codecs and proprietary drivers and secret repositories - two days of configuration on a new setup only to press one wrong update button and lose all of my work - again!!!!  Aaarrrggghhh!!!!

Really!!?!?  Not Bootable!?!?  C'mon!?!!?  You just read this entire diatribe...  please at least type something back to me...  help a brutha out!!!

When's it gonna be my time Lord?  When?!?

---

### Post by blur xc on 2010-02-17
Bring
Up
My
Post

But no- I have not solved the problem yet.  I really haven't had much time to work on it yet either.  When I do, maybe in the next couple of days, I'll give the "fsck /dev/sda5" command a try.  Like I said, this is a 5yr old girl's netbook, and XP is her primary OS for screen resolution issues.

BM

---

### Post by 2hot6ft2 on 2010-02-26
I am having a similar situation. I did a full real install to a usb stick. Ubuntu 9.10. I removed the internal drive when I did the install so it wouldn't be able to mess my hard drive up in any way.

It works great if I boot up the laptop with the usb stick in and the hard drive out. But if the hard drive is in then I am dropped to the initramfs prompt. I noticed that it stops interacting with the usb drive shortly before it fails.

I have been searching and that is how I found this thread. I took some notes along the way and here is what I have saved to try so far:
> One (manual) work-around for me was to "modprobe usb-storage" on the initrd shell when the boot fails. But this should not be needed anymore with the latest kernel.
and
> I got the same problem on my DELL 1501 laptop computer.
and solved the this issue by the method mentioned above:

1 ) I changed the kernel boot options by removing "quiet splash" and adding "debug break=mount".

2) Once the busy box prompt appeared, unplugged the USB drive.

3) I then plugged the USB drive back in, and it was recognized. then exit the busybox.
I haven't tried them yet. Still looking for a real solution.

EDIT: Tried all of them except:
1 ) I changed the kernel boot options by removing "quiet splash" and adding "debug break=mount".

I found another person with the same issues that ended up going back to 8.04 here:
[http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8821830](http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8821830)
so I'm downloading 8.04 and 8.10 by torrent and will give 8.10 a shot first since it seems the issues started in 9.04.

---

### Post by blur xc on 2010-02-27
> **2hot6ft2 said:**
> I am having a similar situation. I did a full real install to a usb stick. Ubuntu 9.10. I removed the internal drive when I did the install so it wouldn't be able to mess my hard drive up in any way.

It works great if I boot up the laptop with the usb stick in and the hard drive out. But if the hard drive is in then I am dropped to the initramfs prompt. I noticed that it stops interacting with the usb drive shortly before it fails.

I have been searching and that is how I found this thread. I took some notes along the way and here is what I have saved to try so far:

and

I haven't tried them yet. Still looking for a real solution.

EDIT: Tried all of them except:
1 ) I changed the kernel boot options by removing "quiet splash" and adding "debug break=mount".

I found another person with the same issues that ended up going back to 8.04 here:
[http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8821830](http://swiss.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8821830)
so I'm downloading 8.04 and 8.10 by torrent and will give 8.10 a shot first since it seems the issues started in 9.04.

The solution to my problem was given to me in this thread - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1414662](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1414662)

Good luck...

BM

---

