---
title: "8.04 stall after login"
date: 2008-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by maiden30403 on 2008-05-09
Just attempted installing 8.04 on my desktop.

Live CD works perfect but when I enter login information it just stalls (blank brown screen) with a movable cursor.

Running on:
2.8ghz Xeon
1gb Ram
128mb GF4

Everything scince 6.06 has worked less and less on my machines, maybe hardware is a bit outdated?

---

### Post by Patb on 2008-05-10
> **maiden30403 said:**
> ...maybe hardware is a bit outdated?
I agree this may be an issue here, Maiden, especially the ram.  Perhaps you could try a minimal install.  My preference would be to use Fluxbox.  I would do things approximately in this order:

Install a CLI
restart 
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
sudo apt-get install xorg
sudo apt-get install gdm
sudo apt-get install fluxbox
sudo apt-get install fluxconf
sudo apt-get install synaptic
sudo apt-get install thunar

Then restart your system to get into a gui and use synaptic to install browser, mail, office package etc etc.  

This is just one suggestion though and there is an endless choice.  See what suits you.  

Cheers, Pat.

---

### Post by Gina on 2008-05-10
No!  The hardware is far from outdated - I have 8.04 Hardy installed on three machines, two of which are much lower spec. The lowest spec is my old desktop with a Pemntium 3 650Mhz processor and 384MB RAM.  Graphics is an old S4.

Minimum RAM to install from the Live CD is 320MB and a lot less from the Alternate CD, which uses a text based install rather than GUI and therefore needs far fewer resources.  I was able to install Xubuntu 6.06 on an old laptop - a 400MHz Celeron with 160MB RAM and integrated graphics.  (It's since developed a hardware fault and stopped working but I was able to browse the net etc. with it for a while).

Some people experience trouble installing Ubuntu or other Linux on newer computers - it takes a while for the open-source community to catch up with new proprietry hardware.

---

### Post by maiden30403 on 2008-05-10
Anyone have any ideas on solving this issue? It seems to be an issue with 'X' maybe but I'm not sure. It seems strange as the live cd works fine.

---

### Post by Patb on 2008-05-10
Oops, apologies. :oops: Gina is quite right.  I misread your post, Maiden.  You have ample hardware.  Sorry, I cannot suggest any solution.  

Cheers, Pat.

---

### Post by Sef on 2008-05-10
> Live CD works perfect but when I enter login information it just stalls (blank brown screen) with a movable cursor.

Have you tried booting into recovery mode?  When the computer starts up, push escape and then highlight the kernel just below the default highlighted one.  See if you can get into ubuntu that way.

---

### Post by maiden30403 on 2008-05-11
Thanks for all the help guys but I found the soloution here.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766881](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=766881)

I should have mentioned I was using SCSI, don't know how it slipped my mind.

---

