---
title: ".zfs is not exists, however i have lots of snapshots"
date: 2015-09-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sjuzer on 2015-09-22
hi,
I have a zfs dataset named backup and mounted to /backup, i make snapshot everyday, and i can list these by 'zfs list -t snapshot', but i cant access.

cd /backup/.zfs
-bash: cd: /backup/.zfs: No such file or directory

I tried to make it visible 

zfs set snapdir=visible backup

but the problem is not solved.

Tried to mount to a dir, but this error happend: mount: unknown filesystem type 'zfs'

How can i access my snapdirs??

/3.16.0-34-generic #47~14.04.1-Ubuntu SMP  x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux  /
This system is currently running ZFS pool version 23

---

### Post by sjuzer on 2015-09-23
nobody can help?

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2015-09-24
Where did you get ZFS from? That's a ***very*** old pool version. Are you using ZFS on Linux? This is not the same thing as the FUSE implementation of ZFS which is now defunct.

[http://zfsonlinux.org/](http://zfsonlinux.org/)

It should work just fine. Is the pool named "backup" or is "backup" a file system within a pool (e.g. tank/backup)?

---

### Post by yancek on 2015-09-24
> cd /backup/.zfs

The above command would be trying to change to a directory named ".zfs" as a sub-directory of backup which would be a sub-directory of either the / of the filesystem or a sub-directory of whichever directory you are running the command from.  Do you actually have a hidden directory name .zfs in your backup directory?

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2015-09-24
> **yancek said:**
> The above command would be trying to change to a directory named ".zfs" as a sub-directory of backup which would be a sub-directory of either the / of the filesystem or a sub-directory of whichever directory you are running the command from.  Do you actually have a hidden directory name .zfs in your backup directory?

It's a built in feature of ZFS where users can access snapshots.

[https://pthree.org/2012/12/19/zfs-administration-part-xii-snapshots-and-clones/](https://pthree.org/2012/12/19/zfs-administration-part-xii-snapshots-and-clones/)

---

### Post by sjuzer on 2015-10-01
ok. I tried to install ubuntu-zfs without success, so I use zfs-fuse without problem for now...
I have backup/ dataset which i mounted to /backup , I make snapshot everyday for backup. I could access snapshots via /backup/.zfs but about 3 weeks ago I cant! So it is the problem, .zfs is not exists and i cant access my snapshots, however zpool status and other status commands show the dataset is online no error, and snapshot is created everyday..

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2015-10-01
> **sjuzer said:**
> so I use zfs-fuse without problem for now...

I strongly suggest moving to ZFS on Linux which is very active and maintained. The FUSE implementation of ZFS is dead and hasn't been updated in 8+ years. The first troubleshooting step here is to not use the FUSE implementation.

---

### Post by sjuzer on 2015-10-02
ok but I cant install ubuntu-zfs ... I used this description: [http://serverascode.com/2014/07/01/zfs-ubuntu-trusty.html](http://serverascode.com/2014/07/01/zfs-ubuntu-trusty.html)
I installed packages but when i tried "modprobe zfs" it said zfs not found.... I tried to solve by google and friends but i couldnt, so i installed fuse again, but the problem the same..
Anyway my ubuntu 14.04 is not a simple ubuntu, its a zentyal 4.1 distribution..

---

### Post by sjuzer on 2015-10-02
ok but I cant install ubuntu-zfs ... I used this description: [http://serverascode.com/2014/07/01/zfs-ubuntu-trusty.html](http://serverascode.com/2014/07/01/zfs-ubuntu-trusty.html)
I installed packages but when i tried "modprobe zfs" it said zfs not found.... I tried to solve by google and friends but i couldnt, so i installed fuse again, but the problem the same..
Anyway my ubuntu 14.04 is not a simple ubuntu, its a zentyal 4.1 distribution..

---

### Post by lukeiamyourfather on 2015-10-02
I have no experience with Zentyal, I assumed you were using Ubuntu since this is an Ubuntu forum. If you plan to continue using ZFS I'd suggest figuring out how to get ZFS on Linux working on Zentyal or move to a distribution with support for ZFS on Linux. As a temporary solution maybe move the pool to another machine, like an Ubuntu machine, just to recover whatever data is needed from a snapshot.

---

