---
title: "Port 725"
date: 2018-02-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2018-02-04
Now that a new LTS is imminent, I'm attempting to migrate my production machine from 14.04 to 16.04 (!) and as usual it's a bit of a headache. The worst problem, for several days, has been a "network unreachable" error when trying to ping the other machine on my LAN, from the 16.04 installation.

This production machine has two large hard drives, one 500 GB and the other 1.5 TB. The 14.04 installation is on the big drive, while the 16.04 installation is on the small one. This lets me verify that the newer installation is working properly before committing to it. And the hardware is unusual in that not one but three NICs are installed, because it serves as the firewall and router for my LAN (the third NIC is simply a spare).

To diagnose the problem, I added rules in my IPTABLES, one in INPUT and the other in OUTPUT, to log all traffic to and from the LAN (addresses 192.168.0.1/24) and this led to my question for this post: The logs show consistent traffic both ways, between port 725 on the distant machine and 1029 on the local one. Port 725 is not listed in the /etc/services file, but a Google search leads me to believe it's used by some security routine that's not fully documented. Can anyone shed more light on this? I've never seen it on the 14.04 or older systems.

BTW, the "network unreachable" problem turned out to be that the "spare" NIC, rather than the one actually connected to the LAN cable, was being used by "ping." I'm still trying to figure out why, but executing "sudo ipconfig <interface> down" makes it go away and everything then works. The spare should not be made active during boot, but I've not yet found the place to kill it.

The troubleshooting continues...

---

### Post by JKyleOKC on 2018-02-05
Well, I'm disappointed that I didn't get a single reply, but just in case anyone is curious I'll report that "sudo netstat -peanut" showed me that the "network unreachable" error came from my local mail server, postfix, when it ran "master" during boot, and happened because the main.cf configuration file said to use interfaces=all. With the spare NIC active, postfix tries to set up the network link over it, and of course it's not reachable. Adding an "ifconfig xxx down" line to /etc/rc.local killed the error and allowed ping to work correctly but leaves a port open and established (which is what led me to this solution), but I suspect that correcting the line in /etc/postfix/main.cf would be a better solution!

---

