---
title: "17.10 how best to move win7 from it's own ssd to a partition on 17.10's ssd"
date: 2018-01-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-01-30
17.10 is on ssd a and only occupies about 40gb. Another 60GB is saved for 18.04.1 . This leaves about 111GB . I want to stick the 50gb win7 partition (which is on d) there.

Easeus doesn't seem to want to move just a partition - it clearly knows it wants the MBR.

GPARTD standalone happily copies the system and C to the a drive and grub sees it, but win says nothing there. Again, not terribly surprised.

Maybe I need to do a fake new win install to there and then easeus the updated partition on top of that?  I'll go try that... Course I'll have to run rescatux to get grub back but that should be easy.

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-01-30
> **Kris_M said:**
> 17.10 is on ssd a and only occupies about 40gb. Another 60GB is saved for 18.04.1 . This leaves about 111GB . I want to stick the 50gb win7 partition (which is on d) there.

Easeus doesn't seem to want to move just a partition - it clearly knows it wants the MBR.

GPARTD standalone happily copies the system and C to the a drive and grub sees it, but win says nothing there. Again, not terribly surprised.

Maybe I need to do a fake new win install to there and then easeus the updated partition on top of that?  I'll go try that... Course I'll have to run rescatux to get grub back but that should be easy.

You can use a Clean Install, or Clone Disk, 
NOTE: most laptops users, they may have no choice but clone disk to SSD or HDD since laptops are always configured with unique SATA interface on motherboard.
I always clone when I need to do what you are faced with. (Just my 2 cents worth)

---

### Post by oldfred on 2018-01-30
Default install of Windows 7 is BIOS which only boots from MBR(msdos) partitioned drive. And partition must be a primary NTFS with the boot flag. Do not think you can easily change partition number or size without major issues.

Your Z97 system is the newer UEFI which uses gpt. And with gpt partitioning Windows only boots in UEFI boot mode. So if you installed Ubuntu in UEFI mode to take advantage of newer UEFI over the now 35 year old BIOS/MBR configuration, your BIOS Windows is not compatible.

---

### Post by sgage on 2018-01-30
I have done rearrangements like this using the free version of Macrium Reflect - make an image of Win7, then restore that image where you want it. Reflect has tools for fixing the boot loader and everything, but I usually just do it myself. You'll want to have a Windows Rescue disk/USB on hand just in case, the Reflect Rescue disk/USB, and a bootable Linux system too, in case you need to chroot in and reinstall/update grub.

I just recently moved Win7 from sda1 to sda4, while moving Ubuntu from sda4 to sda1 using this method.

[edited to add: I should mention this was a BIOS system, no UEFI - no idea what wrinkles that might add.]

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-01-30
Thanks all but at the moment I am stuck - just started new thread asking for help. I am MBR, BOOT everywhere - I abandoned that UEFI long ago.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-01-30
thanks to all but solved the hard way,

---

