---
title: ".swf files not working"
date: 2009-01-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LedZoso on 2009-01-19
I am very new to linux.  My first distro was ubuntu and I've only had it for a week, 8.10 version.  I installed Hardy Mariux stuff and a few other applications like skype, opera, and other basic files.  I've been a long time firefox user, but in ubuntu my firefox will not play .swf files.  I assume this is a problem with my plugin.  Usually the player will load but the content won't.  When i right click the player and click on about i get a window that says swfdec 0.8.0.  I've looked through these forums and others and done what they suggested.  My about:plugins content shows:

Shockwave Flash

    File name: libswfdecmozilla.so
    Shockwave Flash 9.0 r999

MIME Type 	Description 	Suffixes 	Enabled
application/x-shockwave-flash 	Adobe Flash movie 	swf 	Yes
application/futuresplash 	FutureSplash movie 	spl 	Yes

So I'm stumped.  I tried  sudo apt-get remove flashplugin-nonfree and then installed the new version of adobe flash player, but to no avail.  Any help would be greatly appreciated, and I'm here to give any more info that you need.

---

### Post by abn91c on 2009-01-19
in firefox top toolbar, tools>add ons>plug-ins, whats there? anything like the attachment?

---

### Post by LedZoso on 2009-01-19
The current plugins are:
Default Plugin
Demo Print Plugin for unix/linux
DivX Web Player
QuickTime Plug-in 7.2.0
Shockwave Flash 9.0 r999
Totem Web Browswer Plugin 2.24.3
Windows Media Player Plug-in 10

---

### Post by abn91c on 2009-01-19
not sure if it matters but the latest plug in should be Shockwave flash 10.0 r15

---

### Post by LedZoso on 2009-01-19
I can't get the flash plugin 9.0 to uninstall, so i can't get the new version to install.

---

### Post by jmail524 on 2009-01-20
Hi everyone, I am having the same problems. (I think?) I'm running Firefox 3.0.5 with Adobe Flash 9.0.152.  It worked up until about 3-4 weeks ago.  Youtube tells me to install Flash Player, Firefox Add-Ons/Plugins doesn't list the Flash plugin.  I have tried removing/purging and reinstalling Flash Player, Firefox, ia32-libs, nspluginwrapper.  No luck.  I have also tried install Gnash, also no luck.  I have since taken Gnash out and put Adobe flash back in.  Any help would be greatly appreciated.

Running Ubuntu Hardy 8.04 AMD64, 1GB Ram, All current updates.

Thanks.
Brian

---

### Post by abn91c on 2009-01-21
Im in Kubuntu8.10 but it should be the same process, after purging the old version try a website like CNET Tv that will trigger the option to download the plug in, then get the ubuntu version from the page that pops up. log out then try cnet tv again to test it.
At least thats how it worked for me and I have no Firefox issues what so ever.

---

### Post by jmail524 on 2009-01-23
Hi abn91c, thanks for the reply.

I tried purging the flash install with "sudo apt-get remove --purge flashplugin-nonfree" and then reinstalling it.  No luck.  I also purged Firefox 3, nspluginwrapper and ia32-libs thanking that one of the supporting libraries was corrupt.  Again, no luck.

Thanks.
Brian

---

### Post by jmail524 on 2009-01-24
I appreciate everybody's help and suggestions.  Since I could not seem to get flash working, I tried a distribution upgrade to Intrepid 8.10 just to see if it would replace whatever corrupted file/setting was causing my problem.  It did, now flash is working in Firefox 3 perfectly.

Unfortunately this was not a fix, just an "escape" from the problem.

Thanks for everyone's help.

Brian

---

### Post by ZhuaSD on 2009-02-03
It takes time Bri.  I re-installed a couple of times within the first two months of using Ubuntu.  Even today, I am not so comfortable using the terminal for much more than updates and installations.  But I only use windoz for one application, (Auto GK) and even have nothing set up on that install, not even a firewall.

The nice thing bout Ubuntu, well one nice thing, is you can re-install really easily.  Just make a different partition for your data, then if you have any problem you can just throw everything over there, pop in the live disc, and re-install.  If you are doing dual boot, that windows partition (which I think is best put as the very first partition) will be recognized every time.

You might find Ibex is a bit buggy, don't forget it is a new release.  If you need to, spend, what, 30 minutes and re-install 8.04, and follow one of the guides on here to install flash right.

For what it is worth, I used to have regular problems with flash on windoz. Ubuntu doesn't really come with a hell of a lot less problems, but also not a hell of a lot more, either.  

And what will happen two, three years from now?  You excited bout win 7? Oh, man, I am so freaking stoked, let me tell you.  I am so, so very eager to spend weeks tearing out my hair, trying to learn the new word, excel, and all the rest.  During all these re-installs of Ubuntu I made a new xp installation and put office 2007 or whatever on there, just to see.  Man, that was a mistake. Compatibility problems (new propriatary file extensions), functionality I don't want or need messing up the system, functionality I have been using for years (I am an editor and have been using Word since 96, and it still, by Office 2003, was not as good as Wordperfect) just gone...god it was awful.  That was the reason for one re-install ;-)

Keep at it.  Use the boards.  You will be glad you did.

---

