---
title: "22.04 Jammy - cron seems to be ignoring timezone"
date: 2022-08-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jimpye on 2022-08-05
All

I have noticed recently with Ubuntu 22.04 that the cron is not obeying the timezone.

For me backups that should be running at 2am in the morning are actually running at 2pm in the afternoon

There is one bit of confusion to get your head around. I am in New Zealand and as we are in winter here, we are using NZST (standard time) and this is +12 hours UTC.


So here is my crontab snippet. Set to run the backup at 02:16 ie 16 minutes past 2 am

[FONT=courier new]# cat pyenet-backup 
SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin

16 02 * * * root /root/backups/do_backup /root/backups/etc-config >/dev/null 2>&1
[/FONT]

Here are the details from the email sent when backup job is complete. Notice 24 hour clock so the time 14:16 is 2:16 pm.

[FONT=courier new]From    [EMAIL="backup.logs@pyenet.co.nz"]backup[/EMAIL].email <backup.logs@mine>
To [EMAIL="jim.pye@pyenet.co.nz"]backup.admin[/EMAIL] <backup.admin@mine>
Date    Today 14:16
[/FONT]

Date command shows my local time. Note, started to gather this info after googling a bit.

[FONT=courier new]# date
Fri Aug  5 03:47:14 PM NZST 2022
[/FONT]

The timezone file looks OK. One of first commands I run after setting a machine up is the dpkg-reconfigure tzdata as the installer no longer asks for timezone.

[FONT=courier new]# cat /etc/timezone 
Pacific/Auckland[/FONT]


And a timedatectl command shows all the correct settings. ie NZST, UTC, and RTC all good and synchronized. 

[FONT=courier new]# timedatectl
               Local time: Fri 2022-08-05 15:50:30 NZST
           Universal time: Fri 2022-08-05 03:50:30 UTC
                 RTC time: Fri 2022-08-05 03:50:30
                Time zone: Pacific/Auckland (NZST, +1200)
System clock synchronized: yes
              NTP service: active
          RTC in local TZ: no
[/FONT]

To me the cron process is working in UTC time and not local time so seeing the 02 in the hour field and running the job at 02:16 UTC time so for me at 14:16 local time.

[FONT=courier new]cron:
  Installed: 3.0pl1-137ubuntu3
  Candidate: 3.0pl1-137ubuntu3
  Version table:
 *** 3.0pl1-137ubuntu3 500
        500 [http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu](http://nz.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu) jammy/main amd64 Packages
        100 /var/lib/dpkg/status

[/FONT]Another note is I am also running 18.04 and 20.04 servers and they are behaving as expected and their backups are happening in the early morning hours as configured and expected.

Any ideas, is this a bug in cron?  It is definitely not how previous Ubuntu versions have behaved and not what I would expect.

Cheers
Jim

---

### Post by qaguy2 on 2022-08-05
Hi!

Did u restart cron service, after changed TZ config?

I saw must to restart cron service!

Good luck

---

### Post by jimpye on 2022-08-05
Cheers for that.

I have a statistics gathering script that runs daily and I see this  machine has been rebooted 5 times since it was installed. Kernel updates  during patching. So cron would have been restarted 5 times since the  reconfigure of the tzdata.

Another odd thing digging deeper. I have other 22.04 machines (VMs all  on same host) and some of them are behaving correctly and others are  not. cron packages are the same and all the commands I used above report  same outputs.

So even deeper digging is needed.  Will post back if I find anything...

Jim

---

### Post by jimpye on 2022-08-06
I think I have a theory of what is going on, but why is a far deeper can of worms to open than I have time for...

I did some further investigation, following a breadcrumb trail into the area of locale settings, and interestingly timezone only appears once and in both working and non-working servers they were the same, empty.

Then gaguy2's suggestion of restarting the cron daemon gave me an idea why some servers were working and others not working. The working ones had recently been restarted for patching. the others had not.

So patching and restarting the faulty servers has now "fixed" the running of the cron jobs in the wrong 12 hour slot.  Or at least they have not run this afternoon, proof will be tomorrow morning that they have moved to the correct time.

What I think has happened.  I am migrating services from 18.04 to 22.04 and one of these is Puppet. And at the same time I also upgraded my puppet module that installs the backup scripts and exe's etc.

One thing I was doing was creating the crontab snippet using a Puppet template, not the Puppet Resouce type: cron - see [https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/types/cron.html](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/5.5/types/cron.html)

So my thinking is, and this is where someone might step in say why it does this, the created crontab snippet from puppet does not behave the same as if you manually edit the file. The man page documentation for cron says "Thus cron need not be restarted whenever a crontab file is modified.". But maybe Puppet when creating the file does something odd?

Also it's still a mystery why cron was using UTC rather than Local time on this cron tab snippet until it gets restarted.

 So, as I said, seemed to have fixed the issue (or assume I have until tomorrow morning), but not really knowing the root cause.

Jim

---

### Post by jimpye on 2022-08-06
The backups ran at the correct time this morning.

Have added a notify in the puppet manifest to signal the cron service when a crontab snippet is modified.

So all good.

---

