---
title: "Graphic's issues. 1920x1080, hdmi, Nvidia, lcd tv, Sony, Over sized display."
date: 2010-02-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheViLliN on 2010-02-04
[[SOLVED Edit]  Had to install a new video card. ]]

Hi.

I'm having an issue with my nice new awesome 46" Sony LCD TV (kdl46w5100) and ubuntu 9.04/9.10.

To start:
Fresh install.
nvidia GeForce8400GS
Attempted drivers 180/185/195.53
Does this on all attempted resolutions. Including 1920x1080.

So my screen edge's are beyond the border's of the screen.
Using the zoom function of the tv does not bring them in enough.
The 4:3 barely allows me to do anything.

My xorg.conf is pretty basic nvidia defaults.( posted below)

I'm not sure if it's some mode issue or if some absolute positioning variable's have to be defined but I wanted to ask the community to see if there was something I missed and or just don't know.

I read another thread about my pixel to pixel ratio or setting or something might be the issue but I have not been able to find what that is. It was vague.  

Any insight would be fantastic.
:)

```
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "SONY TV"
    HorizSync       15.0 - 70.0
    VertRefresh     58.0 - 62.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8400 GS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP: 1920x1080 +0+0; DFP: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```

---

### Post by cariboo on 2010-02-04
Does your TV have any settings in the menu to adjust the picture. My Samsung auto-detects that there is a computer hooked up to it, and it has several manual and automatic picture parameters that are adjustable.

---

### Post by TheViLliN on 2010-02-04
Hi.  Thanks

Unfortunately not enough to make the difference I need.  I was a little put off by the lack of adjustments with this model.

Just for reference. Windowz 7 does detect the screen ok with this video card but what fun is that.

Is there a way to set the screen size based on a pixel amount alone.  ie// like x pixels by x pixels. ??

---

### Post by TheViLliN on 2010-02-10
So I'm still fighting with this issue.  I've attempted many edits to my xorg.cong.
I've tried manually specifying my edid.bin after supposedly pulling it direct from the TV.
I even tried Nvidia 195 beta drivers.
Custom mode's, DPI settings and everything I can think of.

Nothing seems to make any difference.

I decided to reinstall the O/S (9.04)(+ updates) again and that's when I noticed Ubuntu's basic display settings is detecting my TV as a 72". It's only a 46". This is with no Nvidia driver installed at all.  I can't see anywhere where in the Nvidia-Settings manager to tell me the screen size.


This is getting me closer to the issue. 

Does anyone know if the "screen size" attribute is distinctly defined in the edid.bin file. If so also has anyone had this issue and had to do edit this file???

---

### Post by solitaire on 2010-02-10
Think it's a known issue with the Nvidia drivers.

The Nvidia-Settings app should have a slide bar to resize the desktop.
I'm not infront of the machine at the moment but I'm sure there's a way to fix it.

*update*
look for "Overscan compensation" slide bar in Nvidia-settings app.
use it to resize the desktop

---

### Post by TheViLliN on 2010-02-10
> Think it's a known issue with the Nvidia drivers.

The Nvidia-Settings app should have a slide bar to resize the desktop.
I'm not infront of the machine at the moment but I'm sure there's a way to fix it.

*update*
look for "Overscan compensation" slide bar in Nvidia-settings app.
use it to resize the desktop
__________________

Now do you mean Nvidia cards or Nvidia drivers, because it is an issue with driver's loaded or not. 

And what is this elusive "Overscan comensation" I keep reading about.  No version of drivers/software that I have used have installed that feature into the Nvidia-Settings manager.  I've use 173/180/190/195 drivers.

---

### Post by patchwork on 2010-02-10
Having used the 185/190/195 drivers, the overscan slidebar in my nvidia-settings is located under the DFP0 (may be different on your setup) branch  under the GPU0 tree

---

### Post by solitaire on 2010-02-10
It should look like this: (See attached pic)

---

### Post by TheViLliN on 2010-02-10
Hmm that's interesting.  I don't have the slider at home or here at work.  Both pc's are using the the 8400gs chipset though.  Maybe that has something to do with it.



[ATTACH]146671[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by TheViLliN on 2010-02-10
My next test.  

New hardware! :)   I love the smell of new hardware.

Gigabyte 9400gt and a new (1.3 compliment) HDMI cable.  Just a thought with the cable.  I need another one anyways :)

Results pending....

---

### Post by TheViLliN on 2010-02-10
Yeah!!


SO finally after hours of this and that.  I've found the that the 8400gs chipset in my other video card was preventing use of the overscan feature.

After installing the new 9400gt card. The feature was readily available in the Nvidia-Settings manager.

Problem solved.

Thanks all 
What an usual issue.
:D

---

### Post by tuppe666 on 2010-02-14
Have you got this to work permanently without starting up nvidia-settings at statup?

---

### Post by TheViLliN on 2010-03-03
Not yet.  I would think a small script just to run the nvidia-settings program at start up and close it would do the trick.  I've still not got that far yet.

---

### Post by z3ds on 2010-03-10
TheViLliN , any update on your solution to make the changes on the overscan compensation slider permanent?

---

