---
title: "Problems with reboot/shutdown"
date: 2008-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by HarryTruman on 2008-05-10
I had this problem about a year ago when I installed 7.10 on one of my machines, but I somehow resolved it.  But now with an 8.04 installation the problem has returned and I don't remember the steps I took to resolve this.  

Immediately after installation finishes, and continuing after that with reboot or shutdown I perform, my system hangs immediately before BIOS POST with a blank display and no further booting.  No nVidia splash screen that I normally see for a second, no BIOS POST, no nothing.  I have to manually turn off the computer or hit the power switch on the PSU and then boot back up.  After that happens, I get the an error in BIOS: 
[INDENT]Warning!  Now system is in safe mode.
Please re-setting CPU frequency in CMOS setup.[/INDENT]

I can skip past that message and then proceed to finish booting normally but then the next time I reboot/shutdown Ubuntu it repeats the process.  Anyone have any ideas?
Machine specs:
AMD 3500+
Epox 9NPA nForce4 Ultra
GeForce 7600 GT
2 GB Corsair XMS
IDE HDD

---

### Post by Gina on 2008-05-10
Reset your BIOS to it's defaults?

---

### Post by ghost_ryder35 on 2008-05-10
agreed, sounds like a bios config issue.

---

### Post by HarryTruman on 2008-05-12
As I recall when I had this problem last time, it was a setting within Ubuntu that was causing the problem.  But which part of the boot/shutdown sequence is being affected...I can't remember.

---

### Post by Het Irv on 2008-05-12
Is the error message being generated by the OS or Bios?

also if you can check to see if there is any difference in CPU speed being reported by Ubuntu and Bios

---

### Post by Robin T Cox on 2008-05-12
Use reboot=b in your /boot/grub/menu.lst, perhaps?

See page 3 of this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=591229&page=3]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=591229&page=3")

---

