---
title: "9.04; Help to recover deleted directory - emptied garbage bin"
date: 2009-08-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by arkticcool on 2009-08-14
Running 9.04 Ubuntu Jaunty dual-boot with Vista. Jaunty with ext3 filesystem, Vista NTFS. Both OS's are operational - no hardware failure/disk errors.

I deleted a directory, in Jaunty (ext3), which was then transported to the trash bin. I emptied the trash bin, accidentally, 500mb directory deleted.

I immediately shutdown, and booted up the 9.04 liveCD. Writing forum post with this.

The directory was; /home/user/Desktop/convert
before I deleted it via the trash bin - right click empty.

How can I recover my files?

Looked at DataRecovery documentation for ubuntu - but that seems to be for failed disks/formatted disks (entire disks). What I need is to recover all the files in the directory I just deleted.

Comfortable with command line tools etc. - thankful for any help.

---

### Post by michy99 on 2009-08-14
Try ext3grep. It is in the repository for Jaunty. Install and read the man page. It is a bit technical, but it saved me one time when I deleted a 4 Gig truecrypt file.

---

### Post by arkticcool on 2009-08-14
> **michy99 said:**
> Try ext3grep. It is in the repository for Jaunty. Install and read the man page. It is a bit technical, but it saved me one time when I deleted a 4 Gig truecrypt file.

Reading the epic HOWTO: [http://www.xs4all.nl/~carlo17/howto/undelete_ext3.html](http://www.xs4all.nl/~carlo17/howto/undelete_ext3.html) now. ZZZZZ.

There must be an easier way - I shall slog my way through this and report back any success - I might even make my own non-technical HOWTO.

---

### Post by arkticcool on 2009-09-05
No luck. I think its because I mounted my filesystem at some point accidently. Ext3grep does work, and it gave a bunch of deleted files from a while ago, small files, but not the most recent large files. I did figure out their names, and am going to redownload them. Next time I will now what to do, it all on the ext3grep website.

---

