---
title: "16.04 Live DVD will not boot"
date: 2016-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Acharn on 2016-04-29
I have a desktop box with Gigabyte GA-F2A75M-HD2 motherboard, AMD A10-5800K GPU, 8 GB RAM, and 1 TB Western Digital Blue HD. I downloaded the 64-bit ISO, verified the MD5 checksum and burned it to DVD. When I try to boot up, it gets to the boot menu. When I select "Try without installing" and press <Enter> the screen goes black. After that nothing. Oh, I see an occasional random flash of my hard drive indicator, but other than that nothing. I've let it sit for as much as 15 minutes, but nothing happens. My 15.10 DVD boots fine. My 14.04 LTS USB drive boots fine. What should I try next?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-04-30
The first fix to try with black screen is almost always *nomodeset*. This sticky will be especially useful: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

---

### Post by Acharn on 2016-04-30
Whoo, boy! That sticky is hard to understand. First problem is that I'm trying to boot from a LiveCD, and the GRUB menu I get doesn't have any option to boot into rescue mode or low graphics mode. It also doesn't look anything like the example in Post #3 (I've been there on earlier versions of Ubuntu). At my GRUB menu I have three options: Try without installing (the one I want), OEM Install, Test Hard Drive. Down at the bottom it says I can use 'e' to edit or 'c' to bring up a text console. The "text console" had the prompt "grub>" and I don't know what commands it accepts. Editing the boot line, I added "nomodeset" after the "--" and was able to at least get an error message. The boot process ended with the text line "ubuntu login:" and after about five seconds the screen went black. The error message was: "ERROR: No UMS support in radeon module." I think that's progress, and I'm still trying to make sense of the sticky (post #3 is no help at all -- I don't reach the point they start from), but I'm still stuck.

---

### Post by Acharn on 2016-04-30
Reading further through the sticky, he makes passing mention that "nomodeset" is for nvidia and radeon should try "radeon.modeset=0". I'll try that later.

---

### Post by yoshii on 2016-04-30
I had to give up booting from DVD-drive.  I'm not really sure what went wrong, because earlier in the year my DVD-drive worked fine.  
It almost seems like the computer is too fast for the drive or something because I usually see a flash of activity and hear some DVD drive activity and then the sound changes and everything freezes just like you said.  The only difference is if I boot up Puppy Linux on a CD-ROM, it eventually notices that the boot failed and it lets me try again and then it kickstarts the drive and it works.  I used that to install GRUB4DOS when I lost a bootloader.  But anyways...

Freeware Unetbootin works really well to create a bootable USB drive.  It took a while to write to the USB drive, and at first I thought it failed too, but it didn't.  Eventually it worked.  You just have to be sure to edit your computer BIOS/UEFI settings to change the boot order to put USB drive first.  And then be sure to shutdown so that the BIOS/UEFI changes are saved.  Then put in your flash drive with it's new content and start the computer.  

Unetbootin should work with pretty much any bootable Linux .ISO image.  It's a little bit faster than DVD-drive also.  And you don't have to worry about scratching the disc surface.  It won't work with computers that are too old to have a bootable USB port though.

---

### Post by Acharn on 2016-04-30
Thanks for the information, but this doesn't really help me. I don't want a bootable USB version of a LiveCD, I need to actually install Ubuntu on my USB 3.0 stick and be able to boot from it. I did it easily with 14.04 LTS. Also, I'm able to at least get to the grub menu (is grub supposed to be capitalized?). It's just that the default graphics mode on the 16.04 LiveCD doesn't work with my AMD radeon graphics. I can't imagine why, it's a widely used APU and graphics mode.

---

### Post by Acharn on 2016-05-01
I seem to have found the source of the problem, [Radeon Kernel Driver Deprecates UMS Mode-Setting]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTI2ODA"). The article says, "This change will likely come for the Linux 3.9 kernel and the just-added DRM_RADEON_UMS kernel configuration option should only be enabled if for some reason you plan to stick in an old xf86-video-ati driver on your Linux system." So is there some way to disable the DRM_RADEON_UMS option in the LiveCD boot up sequence, or should I just wait for the next version of Ubuntu and hope they'll have fixed it by then?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2016-05-01
> **Acharn said:**
> I seem to have found the source of the problem, [Radeon Kernel Driver Deprecates UMS Mode-Setting]("http://www.phoronix.com/scan.php?page=news_item&px=MTI2ODA"). The article says, "This change will likely come for the Linux 3.9 kernel and the just-added DRM_RADEON_UMS kernel configuration option should only be enabled if for some reason you plan to stick in an old xf86-video-ati driver on your Linux system." So is there some way to disable the DRM_RADEON_UMS option in the LiveCD boot up sequence, or should I just wait for the next version of Ubuntu and hope they'll have fixed it by then?Good Google-fu you've shown.

[Here]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/1407505") is the launchpad thread (or one of them) dealing with your bug. I'm not sure what your video card is, but there appears to be a regression in the 16.04 FOSS driver that effects older ATI cards. Trouble is that ATI no longer supports their proprietary driver in 16.04, so you are stuck with the community driver and thus, the regression.

The only way I know to work around this is to stick with 14.04 for now until 16.04.1 hopefully deals with the regression. However, you may wish to stick with 14.04 for the long term (as an LTS, it is supported until 2019) and forego 16.04 altogether. Sometimes, the new toy is a distraction when the old one still works flawlessly.

---

### Post by Acharn on 2016-05-01
I don't have a separate graphics card. I'm really not sure, but I think the graphics are done by the AMD A10-5800 APU. If not, then there's a chip on the Gigabyte FA-F2A75M-HD2 motherboard, but I'm pretty sure it's the APU. It's certainly odd that this would happen. The article I cited is from 2013 and gives me the impression that everybody was running away from UMS even back then. It looks like I'm just going to have to wait. It's not a real problem for me, I just like to keep the latest version on hand. Thanks for the information.

---

