---
title: "Drive name discrepancy"
date: 2007-09-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CulleyS on 2007-09-26
There may be a post out there about this, but I've lost some data as a result of trial and error, so I want to ask for help directly. :)

I have a dual boot machine with several drives.  All drives, except for the one running Ubuntu, were created in Windows.  All  partitions and drives, except for the partition running Ubuntu, are NTFS format.  I am using NTFS because I have large files.

One drive is an external, the others are partitions on internal drives.  All but one of these partitions is working for me.

I named this particular drive partition "Nano" in Windows.  In Ubuntu, when I go to /media I see the this drive is called sda2.  I downloaded ntfs-config and ran this to give me read-write permissions to all my drives.  All drives work just fine, but this one.  All loaded with the names I gave them in Windows: GREEN, Snoopy, Snail, Purple, Orange.  Nano is renamed to sda2, though.  I can't remember now, but I believe Nano is the same physical drive which also has my Ubuntu OS partition on it.

When I copy files to Nano/sda2, some times the files take, other times they corrupt.  What has happened now, is when I reboot into Ubuntu, this drive doesn't always load.  If  I boot into Windows XP it recognizes the corrupt files, so does an auto-scan to remove bad sectors.  Hence, I'm losing data.  Then, both Ubuntu and Windows can recognize it again.

So, what is the best course of action for me to follow?  Just leave this drive alone completely in Ubuntu?  Or, is there a way to unmount and remount it?  Calling it "Nano" instead of "sda2?"

Thanks in advance for your help,

Culley

---

### Post by CulleyS on 2007-09-26
Well, I fixed it, sorta, but I don't know how.

Like a fool, I deleted my fstab file thinking that it would be rewritten automatically when I rebooted.  Actually, I noticed a typo in there.   "This file has been automticly generated by ntfs-config--"  Not a big deal, but just pointing it out.

So, without an fstab file, I couldn't reboot.  I tried the Live CD, but as always, because of my ATI Radeon card, Live CD doesn't work for me.  At least not for the DE of Ubuntu 7.04.  Just gives me a black screen.  So, I loaded into "Recovery Mode."  However, recovery mode is read-only, so I couldn't create a new fstab file quite yet.

I switched to root and ran *mount -o remount, rw /*, which allowed me to write to the filesystem.  I created a new fstab (luckily there was a backup called fstab~), then changed the filesystem to read-only using *mount -o -r remount /*.

I rebooted and for some reason, my drive names are all correct and my fstab file works as well.

Very weird.

---

### Post by fjgaude on 2007-09-26
Wonderful, to be able to fix things as we learn... I've been at computers since 1978 and still am learning day-by-day... what a joy to be alive.

---

