---
title: "12.04/Linux Mint Dual Boot Issues"
date: 2012-09-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tumpster on 2012-09-08
Hey there, I installed Linux Mint in a dual boot with 12.04. 12.04 was first and then using the partition tool I created a new partition for the Linux Mint, everything loaded up fine and LInux Mint is running smoothly. However when I get back to the boot loader and select Ubuntu it begins to load but after flashing to what should be the login screen it sits on a black screen with the command line cursor all alone. It accepts no commands and nothing occurs unless I restart. 

Restarting and selecting another kernel brings me to a screen in which I'm told the graphics crashed and must run in low graphics mode. I select yes and it goes to the black screen again with no changes. I have not ran 12.04 post installation of Mint until yesterday in which the problems occurred. I did go in through command line and select to use my backup of xorg to which that didn't fix anything, attempted to fix things with the recovery option through Ubuntu, and have also attempted to see if my xorg was somehow affected but I see nothing. I am open to suggestions and welcome any help. Thank you!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-09-08
Did your grub entries have any customization in 12.04 that Mint did not pickup like nomodeset?

Post link to BootInfo:

Boot Repair -Also handles LVM, GPT, separate /boot and UEFI dual boot.:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Boot-Repair)
You can repair many boot issues with this or 'Create BootInfo' report (Other Options) & post the link it creates, so we can see your exact configuration an diagnose advanced problems.

---

