---
title: "12.04 with hardware support"
date: 2015-03-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by scollar1971 on 2015-03-26
I am a novice ubunto user looking for some input I am thinking of running ubunto 12.04 on a older tablet pc, mostly because I feel it will perform better than with later versions however when I attempt to install 12.04 I have no network connectivity ( atheros ar6003 ) I found info on several ways to overcome this but I am looking for input on whether or not this will dramatically increase performance or not before I embark on this. The tablet is a HP Slate 2 intel atom (oak trail) 1.5 ghz 2 GB RAM which seems to run quite slow on anything 12.10 and up LUbunto ran quickly however seemed a little buggy numerous errors and such. If you feel that 12.04 would run smoother what would be my best way to enable networking or install missing drivers for networking and n trig touch screen?

---

### Post by claracc on 2015-03-26
Perhaps you can try to use wicd instead of network manager to manage the network card, please see [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/WICD)
12.04 is solid rocks now which has been proved for three years.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-03-26
Lubuntu 12.04 was indeed buggy, and besides that it's out of support now. 
Did you try Lubuntu 14.04.2?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-03-26
If you want to stick with a Lubuntu 12.04 derivative have a good look at LXLE which has a version based on 12.04 with support still available until 2017, I think.

However, Lubuntu 14.04 is extremely good, no heavier than 12.04 in my opinion, nor as buggy as 12.04 certainly was, even if those bugs were beatable.

---

### Post by scollar1971 on 2015-03-27
I did try LUbunto 14.04 and it's currently my choice but still get numerous crash reports and just odd behavior but only on this tablet works incredibly, as does Ubunto 14.04 on my desktop. I'm really just trying to make this tablet functional for browsing and reading and e-mail. The odd thing about this machine is almost all of them seem to work out-of-box but the longer I use them performance seem to degrade I don't get it.

---

### Post by scollar1971 on 2015-03-27
I was thinking of thinking of going further back 11.04 possibly but I'm not sure how much of a headache that would create as the hardware in this machine is not really that old ..... My first thought was android and I racked my brain for many months trying to make that work and still open to attempt that endeavor again if I can ever find a more experienced user than my self to help me with it ..... The x86 project kitkat 4.4 live works VERY well live hardware all supported but will not install and surprisingly I wasn't able to find hardly any help on this matter ... If anyone here could help or at least explain why it is that it will run love but not install that would put my mind at ease .... Just thinking about it again is starting to give me a headache :)

---

