---
title: "13.04--password works in terminal and Muon, but not for Synaptic?!"
date: 2013-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2013-04-25
I just installed Kubuntu 13.04, and I have never had this happen, in 5 years (started with Hardy) of Linux:

When I try starting Synaptic from the menu, or from the terminal with "gksu synaptic," the familiar "enter your password" window comes up. When I enter my password, it tells me that the password is incorrect. The password works in the terminal with apt-get, works in the Ubuntu Software Center, and works with Muon.

Why doesn't it work with Synaptic? I've been using Synaptic for years without this weird problem.

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-04-25
gksu installs with the wrong settings lately.

In the terminal, run gksu-properties, change Authentication Properties from su to sudo, and you should be good to go.

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2013-04-25
I did that, and sudo was already enabled. Then I tried "sudo synaptic" and got

sudo: synaptic: command not found.

This is embarrasing; I'm so used to Synaptic being already installed that I didn't realize it was not installed by default in Kubuntu. I installed it, and all is well.

My face is red.

And THANKS!

---

### Post by Gavin77 on 2013-04-25
In Kubuntu you should be using kdesudo instead of gksu.

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-04-25
Synaptic hasn't been installed by default for several releases now. Installing it is one of the first things I do on a fresh install :-)

---

### Post by oldrocker99 on 2013-04-25
Yeah, this is the first pure *buntu I have installed in a while; Ultimate Edition and Mint include it by default. My making assumptions again.

This thread is certainly [SOLVED].

---

### Post by monkeybrain2012 on 2013-04-25
Why do you install synaptic in Kubuntu? It is pretty much the same as muon. I install synaptic in Ubuntu, but in Kubuntu I use muon. However, I think gedebi-kde works much better than whatever they have in Kubuntu for one click install, I would recommend that (I install gdebi in Ubuntu)

---

