---
title: "11.04 bad graphical performance"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Leed on 2011-04-28
Using an ATI Card, had perfect performance in Meerkat... I thought Natty should be better, however it works, but is far from good.

In Gnome the performance is like on a cheap two year old Netbook 

In Unity it's even worse. 

How could this happen? Is there a way to use the old Graphics settings from Meerkat?

---

### Post by dale11 on 2011-04-28
On the login screen, there is an option to login to "Ubuntu Classic". I think that should work for you.

---

### Post by Leed on 2011-04-28
that's what I do to get Gnome2... as I wrote above it clearly runs better than with Unity, but much worse than Gnome2 in Maverick. 

I'm sure there's some problem with drivers or some new Graphics module... it's just I don't know anything about it

---

### Post by dale11 on 2011-04-28
Hopefully someone with more experience will help. I am having somewhat the same problem. My system used to fly on 10.10, and since i've upgrade.. it drags. Takes longer to boot, takes longer to login.

I might just have to reinstall 10.10, I don't much care for unity.

---

### Post by RJARRRPCGP on 2011-04-28
Please burn a CD or install to a USB stick and wipe the HDD then reinstall. 
That usually gets rid of slow-load problems, thus, it shall not feel like a 486 25 Mhz with 8 MB of RAM afterwards.

---

### Post by Leed on 2011-04-29
Found a good solution for now....

I just turned off the ATI Proprietary GFX Driver, now the Window animations are running smooth... in both Gnome and Unity.. so I may even try out that weird new GUI

Seems like the ATI Drivers are a no-go for now... would prefer to have them, but I guess as long as the open drivers do a good job, I can live with them

---

