---
title: "13.04 dmesg:  Warning: nss-myhostname is not installed"
date: 2013-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kend650 on 2013-05-24
Why am I getting this line in my dmesg file:  [12531.694935] systemd-hostnamed[4495]: Warning: nss-myhostname is not installed. Changing the local hostname might make it unresolveable. Please install nss-myhostname!

I am not experiencing any problems, but don't like seeing this type of message in my boot logs.

Any ideas on why or work arounds??

Ken

---

### Post by bab1 on 2013-05-25
> **kend650 said:**
> Why am I getting this line in my dmesg file:  [12531.694935] systemd-hostnamed[4495]: Warning: nss-myhostname is not installed. Changing the local hostname might make it unresolveable. Please install nss-myhostname!

I am not experiencing any problems, but don't like seeing this type of message in my boot logs.

Any ideas on why or work arounds??

Ken

This is probably a result of the incorporation of some of systemd into Upstart routines.  See [**[COLOR="#FF8C00"]here[/COLOR]**]("http://www.iloveubuntu.net/100-scopes-installed-default-parts-systemd-incorporated-upstart-phased-updates-ubuntu-1304s-official").

A Google search reveals [**[COLOR="#FF8C00"]these[/COLOR]**]("https://www.google.com/search?client=ubuntu&channel=fs&q=systemd-hostnamed&ie=utf-8&oe=utf-8#gs_rn=14&gs_ri=psy-ab&gs_mss=systemd-hostnamed%20&tok=0LU5z3X-_wLVjc2TWBwDzg&pq=systemd-hostnamed&cp=30&gs_id=10n&xhr=t&q=systemd-hostnamed+ubuntu+13.04&es_nrs=true&pf=p&client=ubuntu&hs=ph8&channel=fs&sclient=psy-ab&oq=systemd-hostnamed+ubuntu+13.04&gs_l=&pbx=1&bav=on.2,or.r_qf.&bvm=bv.47008514,d.cGE&fp=6c44a6e2b7fa5836&biw=1216&bih=684") items.

My guess is that the /etc/hostname isn't quite correct.  On the other hand the error message is quite specific --  Warning: **[COLOR="#FF0000"]nss-myhostname[/COLOR]** is not installed. Changing the local hostname might make it unresolveable. [COLOR="#FF0000"]Please install nss-myhostname![/COLOR].

This is all very bleeding edge so who knows what the ramifications are.  I believe if you configure your networking manually via the standard files (/etc/hosts and /etc/network/interfaces) the above error message will disappear.

Edit: Here is the developers information on [**[COLOR="#FF8C00"]nss-myhostname[/COLOR]**]("http://0pointer.de/lennart/projects/nss-myhostname/").

---

### Post by zika on 2013-07-15
Does```
sudo apt-get install libnss-myhostname
```help?

---

