---
title: "Cannot install DGC modem driver in 13.04"
date: 2013-11-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by naiqor0-people on 2013-11-13
Have recently purchased a DGC fax modem to use as a fax. If I try to install the supplied deb file through the software center, the install hangs and does not finish, if I install through the terminal with "dpkg -i file name" the following happens.
bucky@bucky-Desktop:~$ cd ModemStuff/CX-FU02+/Linux/dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb
[EMAIL="bucky@bucky-Desktop:~/ModemStuff/CX-FU02+/Linux/dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb"]bucky@bucky-Desktop:~/ModemStuff/CX-FU02+/Linux/dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb[/EMAIL]$ sudo dpkg -i dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb[sudo] password for bucky: 
Selecting previously unselected package dgcmodem.
(Reading database ... 561313 files and directories currently installed.)
Unpacking dgcmodem (from dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb) ...
Setting up dgcmodem (1.01) ...
Conexant DGC USB modem driver, version 1.01


If you need assistance or more information, please go to:
    [http://www.linuxant.com/](http://www.linuxant.com/)


When reporting a problem for the first time, please send
us the file generated by "dgcconfig --dumpdiag".


No pre-built modules for: Ubuntu-13.04 linux-3.8.0-33-generic i686-SMP


Trying to automatically build the driver modules...
(this requires a C compiler and proper kernel sources to be installed)


Where is the linux source build directory that matches your running kernel?
[/lib/modules/3.8.0-33-generic/build] 


WARNING: missing file /lib/modules/3.8.0-33-generic/build/include/linux/autoconf.h
The cause of this is usually a missing or unconfigured
kernel source tree (and sometimes an incorrect directory or symbolic link).


However, proper /boot/config-3.8.0-33-generic was found.
Would you like to try using it (in a temporary kernel tree)? [yes] yes


Unable to prepare temporary kernel tree


First, ensure that the proper kernel source and compiler packages
from your distribution vendor and/or the community are installed.


The Linux kernel can then be reconfigured by running "make menuconfig"
under the kernel source directory (usually /usr/src/linux).


Verify that the proper options for your system are selected.


Then compile and install your new kernel (for more information about
this procedure, see the README file under the kernel source directory),
reboot the system using the new kernel, and re-run "dgcconfig".
[EMAIL="bucky@bucky-Desktop:~/ModemStuff/CX-FU02+/Linux/dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb"]bucky@bucky-Desktop:~/ModemStuff/CX-FU02+/Linux/dgcmodem_1.01_i386.deb[/EMAIL]$ 

How can I fix that, so it installs correctly. The instruction says it needs kernal 2.6.19 or newer and I have 3.8.0-33 generic. Have been to the site mentioned in the error message, but can see no solutions, 
Thank you

---

