---
title: "10.04 server mdadm data loosing while file copying"
date: 2012-02-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Noobeum on 2012-02-09
Hello there.

I have small home server (_see more info in ghost.txt attached_ [ATTACH]212368[/ATTACH])
totally i dont know - its hardware problem or software.

the short-name is "**when i copy data from raid to other raid, i lose some data**"

I had main data 6x2tb raid5 with 9tb size. And then i need to rebuild it to 8x2tb raid6 with 11tb of data. 
*) one half of data (i named it "hold" data) i copy to reserved-1 5x1tb raid5 (named md2 now)
*) other half of data (i named it "cold" data) i copy to 2x2tb reserved-2 raid0
*) download and build mdadm 2.3 --> 3.2.3
*) tried to update kernel to 2.6.32-37, but had problems (see below). return to 2.6.32-28 kernel
*) drop 6x2tb raid5 with data losing (really i tryed to hot-rebuild, but it takes 2-3 month, so i stop it)
*) create 6x2tb raid6 (now named md2)
*) copy data from reserved-2 to new data raid ("cold" data)
*) copy data from reserved-1 to new data raid ("hold" data)
*) check md5sum for "cold" data. its CORRECT (see bash script sources in check-x attach [ATTACH]212371[/ATTACH]).
*) next i droped reserved-2 raid0 
*) check md5sum for "hold" data.
and... i found about 40 files with diff.
then i re-copy them from md9 (reserved-1 raid) to md2 (main data raid) and re-check md5sum. its CORRECT

*) grow 6x2tb raid6 --> 8x2tb raid6
*) check md5 for "hold" data
and now i found about 109 files diffs

okay
i wrote a small app (i named it "bibi" - see sources in attach [ATTACH]212370[/ATTACH]), which checks byte-to-byte files and (if need) fix it.
i fixed all files and then re-check md5sums. its CORRECT.

*) fail one disk and remove from md2 array
*) add one spare disk and re-build md2 array
*) create a new copy from md9 (reserved-1 array) to md2 (main data array) (i named it "fold" copy).
*) check md5sum for "data" on md2 array and "fold" (second copy).
the "data" copy is CORRECT. the "fold" copy has 4 files not correct (diff)

**TOTALLY for diffs**
*) the size of diff files is equal
*) i check md5sum and sha1sum too. two checksums are diff for each of "bad" file
*) i write small app called "bibi" to check diff-blocks (sources in attach)
*) there some examples for diff block sizes:
```
diff from  771719680 to  771747721 size     28041
diff from  771747723 to  771751936 size      4213
diff from  772243968 to  772272009 size     28041
diff from  772272011 to  772276224 size      4213
diff from  773292544 to  773320585 size     28041
diff from  773320587 to  773324800 size      4213
``````
diff from  44132631040 to  44132663296 size     32256
diff from  44133679616 to  44133711872 size     32256
diff from  45009568256 to  45009600512 size     32256
diff from  45010092544 to  45010124800 size     32256
diff from  45011141120 to  45011173376 size     32256
```
```
diff from  1195868672 to  1195897344 size     28672
diff from  1196392960 to  1196421632 size     28672
```[B]
TOTALLY about kernel upgrade error[/B]
i tryed to upgrade kernel from 2.6.32-28 to 2.6.32-37 (after i have mdadm rebuild to 3.2.3), but it doesnt boot from arrays with metadata 0.90. i read in boot logs, that it cant found mdadm arrays and fault in initramfs. i read then arrays with metadata 1.2 built successful with new kernel
so i stoped trying and return to 2.6.32-28 kernel.

**TOTALLY memtest try-s**
somebody says me to check memory
firstly i tryed to mount tmfs and 1000 checks for md5sum tmpfs-bases file.
and then i run 10 times memtest
NO errors found.
(see logs in memtest.log [ATTACH]212372[/ATTACH]attached and memtest.jpg attached[ATTACH]212369[/ATTACH])

**TOTALLY files**
"cold" (also named "backup" or "reserved-2") data takes 3.2Tb of data, ~500 files (0.5K files)
_"hold" (also named "data" or "reserved-1") data takes 3.2Tb of data, ~130K files (150K with dirs)_
all filesytems is ext4

**TOTALLY totally**
i dont know what fails =(
if i use wrong forum, pls move this topic

---

### Post by Noobeum on 2012-02-10
up :-/

---

### Post by Noobeum on 2012-02-11
up :-\

---

### Post by Noobeum on 2012-02-15
oh

no ideas ?

---

### Post by Noobeum on 2012-03-24
up

:-?

---

### Post by Noobeum on 2012-03-24
i did a small experiment

i think, that there are three ways:
1) ram bug
2) motherboard/sata bug
3) software bug (mdadm bug or ubuntu common bug)

so i did next:

src - its old 5x1tb raid5 ro-mounted with old data (i also colled it "hold" early)
dst - new 8x2tb raid6 with data (i also called it "data" early")
(A) - its hash of A file.
--> means coping

```
(src)    ram     dst 
   src --> ram     dst 
   src    (ram)    dst 
   src     ram --> dst 
   src     ram    (dst)
   src     ram <-- dst 
   src    (ram)    dst 

```

and... NO ERRORS.
then:
2) motherboard/sata bug
3) software bug (mdadm bug or ubuntu common bug)


i wanna to make new experiment - re-create raid with old stable mdadm fro repository and newset kernel... lets see what is gives me.


and also i need any your ideas what this bug may be. %-(

---

### Post by concordfta on 2012-09-03
I hope you are notified with this reply.

I too have the exact same problem.  I've run memtest with no errors and there are also no errors in any logs.  When I run md5sum or cmp against files I copy from a non raid drive to a raid, there is a 50-50 chance that the file will be off by one byte!??  This is driving me nuts...

Just to give you some info...

I'm running 12.04, but I created the raid array using 10.10.  I can't remember if I expanded it in the mean time.  I'm wondering if mdadm looks at the version number uses that for anything.

I'm thinking of making another raid (need to buy drives first) with mdadm 3.2.5 and see if that has issues..  I don't remember having these problems with 10.10.

/dev/md1:
        Version : 0.90
  Creation Time : Fri Oct  8 22:44:03 2010
     Raid Level : raid6

btw.. I'm using JFS..  What SATA cards do you use?

---

