---
title: "10.04 how to disable automatic login?"
date: 2010-08-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by abi278 on 2010-08-24
My laptop running Ubuntu 10.04 insists on automatically logging me in without asking for my password.  The only thing is, I've disabled auto login and it shouldn't be doing that.

When I first boot up Ubuntu all I have to do is select my username, no password required to log in.  I want the login screen to prompt me for my password for better security. 

Here are the settings I already have:

System - Administration - Login screen
[LIST]
[*]Set to "show the screen for choosing who will log in"
[/LIST]

System - Administration - Users and Groups
[LIST]
[*]I am the only user
[*]I have an Administrator level account
[*]"Don't ask for password on login" is unchecked, i.e. it should ask for my password on login.
[*]If I create a new user with the same settings, that user gets asked for its password.  But I don't.
[/LIST] 

Surely this should be enough to disable automatic login.  Have I missed a setting somewhere?  How do I fix this?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-08-24
Deleted for while I do some troubleshooting.

Added: I can't replicate the problem. When I make the changes as you did it asks for my password when I reboot.

---

### Post by silverglade00 on 2010-08-24
It might sound silly, but have you rebooted or restarted GDM since you made that change? I always make those silly basic mistakes like that.

---

### Post by abi278 on 2010-08-24
> **silverglade00 said:**
> It might sound silly, but have you rebooted or restarted GDM since you made that change? I always make those silly basic mistakes like that.

Heh.  I've rebooted dozens of times on all the configurations I can think of trying to figure this out, but thanks for the reminder. :)

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-08-24
[QUOTE=abi278]My laptop running Ubuntu 10.04 insists on automatically logging me in without asking for my password... [/QUOTE]

This is not default behaviour, it might help us to help you if you stated what you did to get your system in that state. Did you follow some step-by-step or something, it wouldn't have installed like that.

If you create another user what happens at log on, does the first user still get logged on with no password, does the second (newly created) user behave differently?

To clarify, is it just not asking for a password to log a user on or is one user (first) always being automatically logged on?

---

### Post by abi278 on 2010-08-24
> **QLee said:**
> This is not default behaviour, it might help us to help you if you stated what you did to get your system in that state. Did you follow some step-by-step or something, it wouldn't have installed like that.

To be honest I don't know, my system was all set up several months ago with help from a friend because I was completely new to Linux at the time.  So I can't remember everything that was done, and in any case it wasn't me who did a lot of it.  (Not particularly helpful, I realise!)

It has had this behaviour since set-up, so I guess my friend must have changed something from the default.

The original install was Ubuntu 9, and I upgraded to 10.04 - I don't know if that's relevant, but I mention it because it seems the login management tools are all different in this version from earlier ones.

> **QLee said:**
> If you create another user what happens at log on, does the first user still get logged on with no password, does the second (newly created) user behave differently?

Tried this.  At log on, there's a choice of which user.  The first user still gets logged on with no password, the new second user gets asked for a password.

> **QLee said:**
> To clarify, is it just not asking for a password to log a user on or is one user (first) always being automatically logged on?

The former.  The "choose which user" login screen is there, with the username displayed (even if there's only one user).  Nothing happens until I click on my username.  I expect that to prompt for my password, but it doesn't - it just logs me in without asking.

---

### Post by dagdeniz on 2010-08-24
What about your gdm.conf file, is everything ok there? There should be a line like this, and the value should not be "true": 

```
AutomaticLoginEnable=false
```

It must be in /etc/gdm/gdm.conf (I'm not using gdm at the moment).

---

### Post by QLee on 2010-08-24
[QUOTE=abi278]To be honest I don't know, my system was all set up several months ago with help from a friend because I was completely new to Linux at the time.  So I can't remember everything that was done, and in any case it wasn't me who did a lot of it.  (Not particularly helpful, I realise!)

It has had this behaviour since set-up, so I guess my friend must have changed something from the default...[/QUOTE]

Well, perhaps your friend tried to set your system up so you would only have to enter in order to log on. This might have been tried[B]
1[/B] - Go to **Accessories > Passwords & Encryption Keys**[B]
2[/B] - Select **Passwords: Login**[B]
3[/B] - Right click on **Passwords: Login** & select change password 
**4** - Enter your password, now in order to not have a password box appear at login leave blank and select [B]OK
[/B]
If so, you might have to reverse those actions. I'm just speculating on this with the symptoms you're seeing but it is worth a check. It's always hard to figure out what caused something when there is no data on what was actually done to the system.

---

### Post by sue.nall@verizon.net on 2010-12-25
I'm having the same trouble.  I am new to Linux, but an advanced computer user and so have been taking notes of what I've done as I tweak my Ubuntu 10.04 installation.  I had the option to automatically log me on, but it had been asking for my password.  The only thing I can think of is that I set the root password.  Now when I reboot, it automatically logs me on as before, but no longer asks for my password.  I am not logging onto the GUI as root, but as the same user name as before.  I'm pretty sure I could go back to using the log on screen, but would really like the time saving of going straight to being logged on, but I really want the password prompt.  Any suggestions?

---

### Post by susema on 2010-12-25
Open that and change true values. That should be **false**; 

```
sudo gedit /etc/gdm/custom.conf
```

---

### Post by sue.nall@verizon.net on 2010-12-25
Not one to wait around, I solved my own problem.  I changed System > Administration > Logon Screen to "Show the screen for choosing who will log in".  Then I logged out.  Next I went back and re set it to "log in automatically as ME"  and Rebooted.  Voila!

---

### Post by Timeless on 2011-02-18
How to disable the automatic login in Ubuntu 10.04
 

 open a terminal an enter
 ( sudo gedit /etc/gdm/custom.conf )
 

 then change the screen to the following:
 

 [daemon] 
 AutomaticLoginEnable=false 
 AutomaticLogin=false 
 TimedLoginEnable=false 
 TimedLogin=user name
 TimedLoginDelay=10 
 DefaultSession=gnome
 

 note: the (user name) is your login name, so leave it as is. Just change the first 3 lines.
 

 Then click the ( save ) button, and exit
 

 close the terminal, the ( restart ) your computer.
 

 This should fix the problem. Hope this works for you!

---

### Post by JamesFlamingo on 2011-11-27
> Open that and change true values. That should be **false**; 

This worked like a charm. :grin: Fun to use g-edt through the terminal as well. When terminal claims cannot unlock file [custom.conf] just ignore that and save the file anyway. And I changed both values [timed & auto] to be false just to be sure.

I would consider this solved but i do not know how to tag a thread thusly?:confused:

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-11-27
> **JamesFlamingo said:**
> I would consider this solved but i do not know how to tag a thread thusly?:confused:

Only the original poster can mark a thread SOLVED. But if it's your thread, you do it via the 'Thread Tools' link at the top right above the first post.

Thread closed.

---

