---
title: "13.10 Crashing Daily Like Vista Did"
date: 2014-03-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Smallwheels on 2014-03-27
Almost three weeks ago I updated from 13.04 to 13.10. 13.04 was very stable. It froze only a few times in all of the months I used it. Now 13.10 is crashing daily and sometimes twice. None of the programs I'm using such as Thunderbird, Krita, GIMP, Clementine, LIbre Office, and such have crashed my machine. What always seems to be the case is I'm in a browser and I'm switching pages or closing pages and that freezes the machine. At first I would wait a long period of time and see just how much time would be needed for it to recover. Most of the time it won't after fifteen minutes. Then I use the power button and turn off the machine and reboot it. 

This seems to be a Firefox problem. What is so different about 13.10 that Firefox crashes it so often? I'm tempted to load an older version of Ubuntu just to end this trouble. When will 14.04 arrive? Will it be at the beginning of the month or at the end? Is it possible that 14.04 won't be so bad? 

What would happen if I switched to a different OS that uses the underpinnings of Ubuntu such as Elementary? Would I run into the same things? 

I have tried turning off the plug-ins installed in the browser and have experienced the same thing. What is the point of using a browser if it doesn't have the features I like installed on it?  Chrome is OK but it doesn't have the features I like and it is more difficult to use with multiple search engines. With Firefox there is a separate box for searching. I have a drop down menu of 13 search engines. I use six of them daily. If Chrome had that feature I would have switched by now. 

I have speculated that it is a Flash problem but Chrome hasn't frozen the machine and it uses Flash OK. 

Are many people experiencing this with 13.10 compared to 13.04? 

I have kept all of my files on an external drive and I only add files to the external drive just so I can upgrade to 14.04 as soon as it is ready.

---

### Post by pauljwells on 2014-03-27
To install elementary you'd have to wipe your HD or repartition anyway, so you might as well reinstall 13.10. Elementary is based on 12.04 so it's a bit of a backward step.
Personally, I never use the upgrade route, there are always fewer problems if you do a clean installation each time. As you wisely keep your files on an external drive you won't lose anything you can't replace.
Alternatively, 14.04 is only three weeks away. Wait until then and do a clean install. In fact the daily builds are already quite stable if you can't wait ;-) I'm using it right now and have had no problems. (YMMV of course, it is still beta.)

---

