---
title: "P4 2.2 GHz, what distro?"
date: 2010-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by frito on 2010-03-02
I have a P4 2.0 GHz computer with 1GB ram and an onboard video card.

Should I be looking at installing a low requirements distro like Sidux or Xubuntu?
Or are the low requirements distros for really old hardware? Like Pentium 3s?

Should I avoid KDE4?

---

### Post by 98cwitr on 2010-03-02
Might wanna try Fedora 3 or 4

---

### Post by delectate on 2010-03-02
maybe it is enough to install 9.10

but ,you may can not use hardware acceleration while playing videos

---

### Post by james_xxx on 2010-03-02
You should be fine with most any modern distro with those specs.

Many people, including myself, run full-blown, modern distributions on much humbler hardware than that.

The only place where you may or may not have limitations is with your on-board video. Depending on what video adapter you have, and what size display you are using with it, you *could* have difficulties running a composting manager like compiz.

There would be no reason, in my opinion, for you to feel forced to use a more minimalist OS, although there would not be a thing wrong with doing so if that is your preference.

By the way, the gains in performance you would experience in using Xubuntu over Ubuntu would likely not be that profound. Xubuntu is great for XFCE fans, but there are XFCE distros that are a lot lighter.

Also... KDE4 should work just fine. I am running Fedora 12 w/KDE4 (& Kwin's native compositing) on a machine with similar specs, but with 512MB RAM, and it works great.

---

### Post by darolu on 2010-03-02
You should be able to run 9.10 perfectly; I have a Pentium III @ 650Mhz with 384MB RAM (PC-133) running Debian 5 very well, that same machine had Slackware 12 and it ran amazingly fast, I have also ran Ubuntu 9.04 on it and it ran just fine, not fast but fine.
As james said, your only problem could be your video card, that old P3 machine has a Nvidia FX 5200 with 128MB VRAM and it does help a lot.

---

