---
title: "8.04 'squashfs' errors &amp; install fail -a solution"
date: 2008-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Uwe907 on 2008-04-27
Hardy installed fine on a couple of machines using the live cd but initially I got nowhere when trying an install on a Hewlett Packard t760uk desktop machine.

The install would lock up for a few minutes, then the progress bar screen gives way to fast scrolling text screens of **squashfs** errors. I gave up then and this morning I tried reinstalling again, this time removing 'quiet' and 'splash' from the default install options. By itself this didn't help much *but at least I was able to see what was going on in the early part of the instal*l: I don't find the progress bar very informative.:)

I had been using the dvdRW drive for the install, this being the way HP had the bios configured. I put the live install cd in the second optical drive and rebooted, this time pressing ESC to start the boot drive selection screen and then selected the second optical drive.

The install then went perfectly normally from that point.

Potentially, the squashfs errors were a show stopper in that I'd had no previous problems installing a number of earlier versions of Ubuntu on that machine and I was not able to figure out what to do next from the limited amount of info available to me.:confused:

This is a fairly painless way to get around this problem on the HP machine and it might be a solution for those having similar problems who also have a second optical drive available. I just wish I'd thought of it yesterday!:mad:

Uwe

---

### Post by nublaii on 2009-01-14
Thank you sir.

I have burned at least 5 coasters trying to get it to work, checked my ram...

I also have an HP machine, xw8200.

Problem solved for me ;)

---

