---
title: "7.10 Install"
date: 2007-07-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by acowboydave on 2007-07-29
Is Wubi going to be able to install Gusty Gibbon 7.10 soon?

---

### Post by tuxcantfly on 2007-07-30
Well if anybody wants to try building it for gutsy, all you do is download the lupin and wubi sources, and build them under a machine running Gusty, and adjust the urls in the Wubi source to point to the latest Gutsy tribe release, and if it works, post it so others can try it out. Officially, though, we won't be offering release-quality Gutsy builds yet (though maybe minefields), since Gutsy is still rather unstable and not meant for production machines, and we haven't done nearly as much testing of Wubi on Gutsy than on Feisty.

---

### Post by PhoenixP3K on 2007-07-30
If I knew how to do this I would sure try it myself. I'm running Vista and would love to try Wubi to use Linux. Making a partition isn't hard at all but the concept of having it as an installed program is great for non-Linux users.

---

### Post by ago on 2007-07-30
7.10 is a bit more complex than usual. You may try to simply compile the old code as tux said and it should work (no guarantee). But we are working to merge with ubuntu, hence lots of lupin/wubi features are being moved upstream and there is little point in simply reusing the old code as it was. I have been on holiday and could not help much on the merge (the boss vetoes PC use during holidays) but hopefully we will catch up. In short: wait.

---

### Post by acowboydave on 2007-07-30
Thanks for the reply on this and understand Gusty is still not perfected yet. But what not a better way to test it than with Wubi, a full fledged install without committing it to your hard drive. Thank you all for your hard work, you really don't know how many people you have helped.

---

