---
title: "19.04 - A Lobotomized User Account for Family and Friends"
date: 2019-08-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-16
My 2-months long life as (L)Ubuntu user has made me appreciate the possibilities of User Management in Linux: I always wanted a machine with a protected environment for visitors that isolated my PC from harm. My family and friends are not very computer-savvy, but when messing around with a PC, a lot can happen. Win didn't give me this option.

My first attempts at limiting harm were "sandbox" or "container" packages, but they were far too complex and way over the top for my use. Linux user management had to be the way.

First, this thread describes my way of creating a user that's a copy of my main account:
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2424601](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2424601)

The next part is cleaning up the Desktop and Taskbar for the "newbie" account, so that dangerous applications are eliminated. Easy, just delete the icons when logged in as "newbie".

But the Start Menu remains, and contains all the installed/dangerous programs, so the above effort is futile without modifying it.

This is unfortunately very difficult in LXQt. There is no program available for customizing the Start Menu.

Login as main user and go to **/etc/xdg/menus** and (sudo) copy **lxqt-applications.menu** to** lxqt-applications-newbie.menu**

Open (sudo) **lxqt-applications-newbie.menu** and either delete or comment out all items that you want to remove (using <!-- xxxxxxx -->). [I][B]Do not modify the top level of the file, identifiable from the indents!
[/B][/I]
Logout and login as "newbie". (Important!)

Last task: right-click on the Taskbar/Panel, select "Configure Panel", select "Widgets", choose "Application menu", click the cogwheel and change the "Menu file" to **/etc/xdg/menus/lxqt-applications-newbie.menu**

Reboot.

Now, I'm certain that experienced Unix/Linux gurus will slap their knees and guffaw loudly reading about this approach.
I'm aware of it's limitations, (alt-ctrl-T is still there) but like I said at the beginning: this is not about high security, but just about preventing something silly happening accidentally.

It's sufficient for me.

Cheers.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2019-08-16
Thank you @ml9104

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-08-17
What is a dangerous application? Something that installs malware? Something that makes the computer unbootable? The only thing a normal user (as opposed to you, an admin user, i.e. a user who can use sudo) can mess up is his own home directory. You, the admin user, can restore such a messed up home directory from a backup with a single command.

Just make sure you don't grant read acces to your home directory to all users. On Ubuntu, read access for all users is by default granted in home directories, so change that. Then, in the unlikely case your newbie user gives strangers read access via the newbie account, that stranger still can't read your files.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-08-17
You can create your own startup GUI and you can remove the C-A-t accel key-chord, if you like.  Don't use any DE, just use a Window Manager.  I don't know how lxqt works, but lxde uses openbox. The config file for openbox is in ~/.config/openbox/.  Lots of keyboard accel actions are in that files.  It is XML, so ugly to humans, but very much like HTML, so just remove the tag pairs around the stuff you don't want.  Openbox supports a menu system that you have complete control over.  Right-click anywhere on the desktop to see it.

There are many other window managers, WMs.  I use fvwm, which has been around since 1995-ish.  I haven't found anything that my tiny, light, WM using 11KB of RAM can't do that the heavy DEs using 100x that amount of RAM do.  If you like transparent windows, great!  They work fine.  Virtual desktops?  fvwm invented that.  Want fancy system monitoring outputs across the side, top, bottom ... fine. Where ever you want them.  Want control over title bar thickness, colors, control over the possible 6-buttons (3 per side), fine.  Want a thinner or thicker window outline or scrollbar?  It has controls for that too.
Best of all, fvwm uses layered config files, so you can place different menuing into each userid, as you like AND lock down the directory so users can't change it - or leave it open for them. Doesn't matter.

Removing things from the menu can be fine for kids and people who won't search for other stuff ( I can't remember seeing any normal terminal commands in any menus), but if someone can get to a terminal, the full capabilities of the system will be at their disposal.

A word of warning.  Way back in the mid-1980s, my parents got a computer.  A sister with her 5 yr old came for a visit. That sister would turn on the PC and let my niece bang on the keyboard. She liked to see the keys show on the monitor, under her control.  Fine. It isn't like she would type *format c:*, right?
The next day, I went to use the computer and it wouldn't boot.  Research showed that every file in c:\ had been deleted.  You know, like that little pesky file command.com.  > The infinite monkey theorem states that a monkey hitting keys at random on a typewriter keyboard for an infinite amount of time will almost surely type any given text, such as the complete works of William Shakespeare
I completely believe it and it won't require either an infinite time or infinite monkeys.  Just a 5 yr old who is slightly curious.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-17
@impavidus and TheFu, your inputs are extremely appreciated.

Yes, I'm exactly trying to avoid the "5-year old syndrome" you refer to, mainly by restricting access to only the programs that visitors need, eg, why would they need HTOP or Timeshift?

After reading the man page for chmod, I constructed the following command:

      chmod -R o-rwx /home/joedoe

Where joedoe is the admin user. Can you confirm that it's OK?

I Thank You in advance.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2019-08-17
You can protect the privacy of joedoe's account by using 700 permissions.
```
sudo chmod -R 700 /home/joedoe
```
Functionally, in Ubuntu, that's equivalent to what you suggested above, since each user automatically gets placed in a unique group as well.  Permissions of 750 would let other members of joedoe's group list and read the contents of /home/joedoe.

You can also look into things like changing the default UMASK as I [describe here]("https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2424509&p=13878755&viewfull=1#post13878755").

If you only want to limit people to using a small subset of programs, I'd first create a guest account, then spend some time removing anything from the menus for that account that guests wouldn't need.  I use KDE, so I can't be sure that vanilla Ubuntu looks the same, but my main menu has a "Favorites" section, where I have all the applications I use routinely, plus sections for "Applications," "Computer," "History," and "Leave."  I'd just include the programs I'd want guests to be able to use in "Favorites," and delete all the rest except "Leave."  

If the purpose here is to protect the computer against naive users, that should be sufficient.  You could also disable Alt-F2 to keep people from running programs, or worse a Terminal, that they know is there.  If you just want to let people use a browser and nothing else, you might look into "[kiosk mode]("https://tutorials.ubuntu.com/tutorial/secure-ubuntu-kiosk#0")."

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-17
@SeijiSensei, Thanks for your suggestion. However, the 700 permission seems a bit like carpet bombing to me. I'm not certain that I want to mess with group permissions at this time, excluding "other" is enough before I understand the implications.
Concerning the rest of your post, that's what I've already done.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-08-17
> **ml9104 said:**
> 
After reading the man page for chmod, I constructed the following command:

      chmod -R o-rwx /home/joedoe

Where joedoe is the admin user. Can you confirm that it's OK?
That will do. In fact,```
chmod 750 ~
```is sufficient. ~ is short for your own home directory, in your case /home/joedoe. You own that directory, so you can change permissions on it. No need for sudo. This still allows read access to members of the group, but, unless you changed this yourself, you are the only member of your primary group, so that doesn't matter. And finally, if a user doesn't have both read and execute permission on a directory, he has no access to the contents of that directory. No need to make the chmod recursive. If it's not recursive, it's easier to undo.

A determined attacker with physical access to the computer can always get in, but your family and friends are not determined attackers. You only care about people accidentally messing things up.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-17
@impavidus:

VERY interesting indeed. This means in general, that if I set limitations on permissions in a "main" directory, in this case /home/joedoe, these limitations also apply for all subdirectories and files?
If that's really the case, it will make my life much easier :)

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-08-17
> **ml9104 said:**
> @impavidus:

VERY interesting indeed. This means in general, that if I set limitations on permissions in a "main" directory, in this case /home/joedoe, these limitations also apply for all subdirectories and files?
If that's really the case, it will make my life much easier :)

The don't apply recursively, but they can't get through the door, because the HOME doesn't let them go any farther down.
There isn't any better way to learn permissions beyond beginner level than creating 3 play userids, 2 play groupids, mix and match the users in the groups, spend 45 minutes in /tmp/play-area making directories and files for each user and group.  Try every possible combination to see what works and what doesn't.

There is genius to the Unix permissions and consistency.

Strictly speaking, directories do not require read access, but they must have x for the permissions that the userid attempting to do stuff inside the directly.
rwxr-x--x is an interesting set of permissions.  What can someone not the owner or in the group do?  1 thing. Run a compiled program, iff they know the exact name of the file.  "Other" cannot run any scripts, however, because script execution requires "read".

Many books say the 3rd group is "world", this is incorrect, it is "other" - other than the owner; other than the group members. There is a subtle, but important, difference.

When might rwx---r-x be useful?  There are times.  Test it out. See for yourself.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-08-18
> **ml9104 said:**
> @impavidus:

VERY interesting indeed. This means in general, that if I set limitations on permissions in a "main" directory, in this case /home/joedoe, these limitations also apply for all subdirectories and files?
If that's really the case, it will make my life much easier :)

Not exactly. To access a file you need execute permissions on every directory in its path. To read the name of a file, you need read permission on its directory. This makes it hard to access a file if you don't have read permissions on every directory in its path, as you would have to know its name in advance. Write permissions on a directory only control whether you can create or delete files and directories directly in that directory, but has no direct or indirect effects on what you can do in subdirectories. You may have noticed that you don't have write permissions on /home, but you do have them on /home/joedoe.

Now set up a directory to play and experiment with permissions.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-18
OK, I've now issued the following command:

chmod -R o-rwx /home/joedoe

My home directory is now protected, a newbie-issued cd /home/joedoe gets a Permission denied. Perfect! And I cannot imagine any "other" ever needing access to my home directory, making any undo operation unnecessary.

Unfortunately, my newbie user can still make a cd / from a terminal, so my next part is removing ctrl-alt-T from the options. Exploring Openbox settings is the next part.

EDIT: and it's done. Ctrl-alt-T is dead for user newbie. A simple comment-out in /home/newbie/.config/openbox/lxqt-rc.xml solved it.


Thanks to All.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2019-08-18
Yes, you can lock it down fairly well. But I'm wondering about finding a balance. I mean, a user who has no write access outside his own home directory, no read access to any potentially sensitive files and can't use sudo to get that access, can't do any harm to the system (other than completely filling the file system; you can do something against that too). Preventing your newbie users from opening a terminal may be overkill.

My first experience with Unix was on a university system. It was properly secured, so there was no way I could mess up the system, but I did have a terminal (what's the use of a computer if you haven't got a terminal?) and that allowed me to dive into all kinds of system directories and learn about the system. The more inquisitive newbies may actually like it and one day become Linux wizards themselves. In case of a library computer, which is only meant to allow random strangers to use a web browser to access particular internet sites, locking it down is great. For family and friends, I wouldn't lock it down any more than really necessary to prevent accidentally breaking the entire system or loosing your own files.

But then, I believe there's quite a lot of Good left in most people. Maybe I'm mistaken. I hope not.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-18
@impavius, I'm with you all the way.
I've actually set up a second "family&friends" user with full access for relatives that have a bit of knowledge. Who knows, perhaps I'll set up an intermediate knowledge user.
But it was  lot of fun doing the "lobotomized" setup, and I learned a lot myself.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2019-08-18
May want to check out a **restricted shell**, rbash is one.  Generally only use it for tty logins, not GUI ones. Don't know what it might break in a GUI. 

I don't know about any GUI to manage all the openbox settings.  Editing the xml is how I did it.  Any user seeing the login page can choose a different DE or WM, just so you are aware.  I suppose at session start, you could check the DE and kick the user off if it isn't an approved version.  I've never done that.

---

