---
title: "11.10 Unity questions--workspaces"
date: 2012-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by acidblue on 2012-02-25
I'm trying the live 11.10 version of Ubuntu and I have some questions.

Firstly and this is a deal breaker if I can't get it to work.
How do you change/handle workspaces in Unity?
When I click the 'workspaces' icon in the toolbar I get a sort of split screen,4way, but only the left uppermost part has a screen the other 3 are blank. I have no idea as how to change to a different workspace.
This use to be sooo easy it was a no brainier, you just click on the workspace you wanted and it took you there.

How do I change which side the 'close, min/max' buttons are in the windows?
Right now they're all on the left which i hate , I need to put them on the right, where they belong!
Use to be able to just change the window theme, but now this seems overly complex in Unity.

If anyone could help me with these issues I would appreciate it as I would like to continue to use Ubuntu.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2012-02-25
Are you running Unity 2D or 3D. I don't know about 2D, but in Unity 3D you can easily change the workspace layout by installing CCSM (compizconfig-settings-manager). Unity runs on top of Compiz, so you get all the compiz settings and customizations from there.

You can also change the position of the buttons and the theme from Ubuntu-Tweak:

[http://ubuntu-tweak.com/](http://ubuntu-tweak.com/)

BTW many of the changes in Ubuntu 11.10 come form Gnome 3 rather than Unity. Gnome 3 changed the way themes are handles, not Unity.

---

