---
title: "9.10 Clean Install - Grub 1.97??/"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2009-10-29
Just downloaded, made CD from iso and installed fresh 9.10.  Was expecting graphical Grub 2 but screen shows plain old text saying grub 1.97 Beta .... 4 I think.  Am I missing something?

---

### Post by ezsit on 2009-10-29
> 1.97 Beta .... 4

That is Grub2, it is still in beta and has not yet reached 2.0 status yet.

---

### Post by tuahaa on 2009-10-29
Thats the same for everyone. I did a bit of googling and Grub 1.97 Beta 4 is the latest release of grub... but I guess you can call it grub 2 without the cool look

---

### Post by krul on 2009-10-29
I was also a bit scared to see Beta for such thing a GRUB. But at least i didn't have any problems with it yet (running for couple of weeks)

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2009-10-29
Hmmm......  thanks to all for your replies.  I tried for ages to get grub2 working with 9.04 but gave up in the end as a number of web sites said there was an inherent problem with 9.04 re Grub2.  So ..... I was looking forward to 9.10 to get my nice graphical grub.  Is there a time line to get Grub2 on 9.10?

---

### Post by The-Don on 2009-10-30
Thank you..! I was so worried that I downloaded a beta version instead of the final version...now my mind is at peace.

---

### Post by Uncle Spellbinder on 2009-10-30
No problems her either, as it recognized Windows 7 without issue. But I thought the big thing was it was suppose to be a splash image or something. It looks that same as it always has for me. Typical "grub loading" then the whit print/black screen with options on what OS to pick.

Clean install of Karmic.

---

### Post by HolyJoe on 2009-10-30
> **ezsit said:**
> That is Grub2, it is still in beta and has not yet reached 2.0 status yet.

:) Oh, that.

---

### Post by Quarkrad on 2009-10-30
Up to now I have read (with anticipation) various reports on 9.10 and how good the graphical grub is - now we have 9.10 the graphical grub is not there.  There seems to have been a degree of poetic licensing re: whoever(? - I'm a newbie here) has been distributing 9.10 for review.

---

### Post by Uncle Spellbinder on 2009-10-30
> **Quarkrad said:**
> Up to now I have read (with anticipation) various reports on 9.10 and how good the graphical grub is - now we have 9.10 the graphical grub is not there....

Yeah. I can't seem to see any way to get the graphics at all. No big deal, really. Jut more eye candy, I suppose. Just that all the talk of the graphical grub, and I don't see it.

---

