---
title: "14.10 Ubuntu/Firefox Freezing issue"
date: 2014-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-07
[COLOR=#ff8c00][SIZE=3]**Notice:**[/SIZE][/COLOR] AMD R9 270X family is known to have instability issues. Try disabling [Hardware acceleration in Flash]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2251837&p=13164650#post13164650"). [HR][/HR]

Numerous amount of problems of late but this one is perhaps the most annoying. 

I had an issue where I needed to install the Adobe version of the 64-bit flash rather than the one that was in the Ubuntu repository. Since then I seem to be getting problems. I have tried remove --purge, and reinstall all the normal flash items via the repository but to no avail. I use the Radeon R9 family of graphic cards. 

Now, to demonstrate this problem, it's hard to know what the exact cause is, but here's how I get it. 

1. Launch Ubuntu (64bit)
2. Launch Firefox
3. Navigate to Youtube
4. Begin watching videos

Now, at some random point Ubuntu will stop responding. I cannot use the keyboard. I can move the mouse around the screen, but I cannot click on anything. I have tried multiple commands from the keyboard but as I said the keyboard doesn't work. 

After a short while the screen will go blank. The screen will then turn off, come back on in a blank state and then Ubuntu will usually reappear. 

After accessing firefox through the terminal, I discovered that VDPAU wasn't linking correctly, it was looking for the 32bit version and I have the 64bit version. Not a huge problem. I checked the software manager and installed the mesa-drivers as they didn't appear to be already installed (although other mesa items are). After this, instead of resuming as normal, it instead returns to fuzzy white lines. The mouse is identifiable by having slightly larger white lines in square format that I can move around. Again I cannot interact with nothing and unlike before where it'd recover normally, now I still cannot do anything. 

Previously if I carried on with what I was doing the machine would repeat the blanking processes come back and then permanently freeze. With only the mouse moving. The only way to restart the machine is to press the reset button. 

So...anyone have any ideas?

Edit

Appears not to be flash, as it has started doing it without a flash page opened.

Edit

Never mind I'm just going to reinstall it'll be faster.

Edit. 

Well that didn't work. 

I reinstalled the system. 

Installed Gnome-shell (Unity sucks)
Installed Xchat, Keepassx, Grive, Dropbox, VLC and Wine all from the repository. 

Loaded up a flash video got through 3 minutes and 19 seconds and suddenly... black screen. It reutrned without the white lines....

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-07
Unfortunately, a reinstall did not solve the problem.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-11-07
A possible work around is to install the extension at the link which renders videos in html 5 rather than flash . After installing go to Youtube,start a video, right click on the running video to disable flash, and then refresh the page with the F5 key. The video will restart using html5 , but this extension is for youtube only. 

Clearing the cache in Firefox and renaming or deleting .mozilla folder in home/hidden folders (Ctrl +H) may also help. A new folder will be created when FF is started again but you will loose your bookmarks and extensions which is no problem if you use Firefox Sync or export your bookmarks. If the problem isn't hardware related this would be a starting point. There have been reports of FF freezing on 14.10 but I've not seen it on either of my computers.

[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/youtube-all-html5/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/youtube-all-html5/)

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-07
Reports by whom? Because this didn't used to happen...

I appear to have found some reports on 14.04...

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/1318403](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox/+bug/1318403) 

I've deleted the .mozilla folder so we'll see how that goes.

Edit:

Result: Doesn't work, system still freezes.

There's also 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250936](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250936) this thread.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-11-07
> Reports by whom? The thread you linked is one and there have been others as well . I can't answer why some users are affected and others are not. One of my computers is AMD Nvidia based and the other is Intel and I haven't  seen any problems yet.

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-07
Is there anything I can do to collect data before/during freeze? So that there's at least some more data to provide? It might just be the x64 bit I dunno. But it wasn't happening only a week ago...

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-11-07
Enter preferences > advanced and enable crash reporting and health report if not already. As for Launchpad to create useful bug report Apport needs open in order generate a report. The problem is that if the browser doesn't crash Apport won't open and when applications freeze the CPU is often maxed out to 100% so leaving the browser frozen until it crashes isn't healthy either.

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-07
I've got those but it appears that Firefox doesn't crash. As for the CPU being maxed out, I haven't noticed that yet but I'll keep a closer eye on it. 

Some users have reported some success by upgrading the kernel, but I can't find how to upgrade the kernel and further I can't find the specific link any more >.>;; But I'm sure it was for my current kernel 3.16.0 upgraded to 3.16.30 or something.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2014-11-07
The system log might offer some clues to the cause and there are kernel PPAs but I've never used one before.  

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/119080/how-to-update-kernel-to-the-latest-mainline-version-without-any-distro-upgrade](http://askubuntu.com/questions/119080/how-to-update-kernel-to-the-latest-mainline-version-without-any-distro-upgrade)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-11-07
I have the same problem. It has nothing to do with flash, FF still freezes with flash disabled and on pages that have no flash, e.g UF. Nothing to do with addons or corrupted profile either since it is a new install with no addon other than Adblock (which I also disabled to test in the unlikely event that it is the culprit)


I have the same version of FF and flash on Ubuntu 14.04 on the same machine with no issue. I am going to download the FF tarball from Mozilla and see if I have the same trouble once I get around to it (14.10 is just for test, still on 14.04)


[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250936&p=13160801#post13160801](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2250936&p=13160801#post13160801)

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-07
So far it does actually appear to be flash for me. Once I installed Adblock plus to block all advertisements (including the flash ones) and haven't visited a flash site since... I seem to have had a good run of no freezes. It doesn't necessarily matter which tab the flash is in so long as it's being used. 

I personally suspect an update over the last couple of days has triggered the problem.

--Edit. I'm reinstalling so we'll see how that goes...

---

### Post by waffen on 2014-11-09
Hello,I did a version upgrade from 14.04, now my FF is crashing all the time Im tired, I opened the same tabs in Chromiun (looks like it runs more faster than FF) with no crashes.

FF loading some heavy pages takes his take a looks freezy, Chromium loads smoothly the same page.
After some of the last updates FaviconizeTab dont works in some of my tabs. I have installed AdblockPlus, I dont see or have loaded any flash page no youtube, I have setup remember opened tabs.

FF crash at any time with no warning, sometimes I can see black screen, all freezes and comeback to work (nothing happen with Chromium) 

Im going to delete my .mozila folder, reinstall all the plugins and see what happen. 

@Yulra: any update with your tests?

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-09
After ahem. Several complete reinstalls because I thought some packages were managing to evade Ubuntu's "Erase entire disk" ... I still get the same problem. 

I have to assume that there was a kernel update. 

I'm also having a minor problem with Wine, might be completely unrelated however, I'm not certain. This freezing thing does need to be sorted out. 

Deleting the .mozilla folder did nothing for me.

As for memory... I keep strong tabs on that. The only thing that absorbs everything is disk cache and sometimes grive >.>

---

### Post by waffen on 2014-11-10
Well my only problem is Firefox right now, many crashes, so for now Im usign Chromium. I have a NVidia card...

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-10
Apparently I'm still getting problem. Crash before last I got an XOrg failure along with a Radeon related message, but of course, no way record the messages fast enough -_-. 

I keep reporting them as asked (when it actually does say there was an internal error)

Until then, I frequently have to use REISUB...

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-10
Update: Also affecting Chromium. 

I highly suspect that this is an XORG problem.

Something about a SEGSIG or something like that...

I'll try and catch the crash again, but Apport has an annoying habit of not repeating itself

edit
Okay...5 times in less than ten minutes. Chromium is affected a tad more...

---

### Post by WinEunuchs2Unix on 2014-11-10
I'm not convinced this is a Ubuntu specific problem. A quick google found all kinds of bugs with different R9 cards.  You didn't say which yours was just "R9 family".

To wit:

[http://www.tomshardware.com/answers/id-2065822/crashing-problems-sapphire-radeon-270x.html](http://www.tomshardware.com/answers/id-2065822/crashing-problems-sapphire-radeon-270x.html)

and:

[http://windowsforum.com/threads/need-help-bsod-caused-by-amd-radeon-r9-290-series.191692/page-3](http://windowsforum.com/threads/need-help-bsod-caused-by-amd-radeon-r9-290-series.191692/page-3)

Can you post your model number?

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-10
VGA compatible controller: Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. [AMD/ATI] Curacao XT [Radeon R9 270X]

Kernel Driver: radeon

-_-; dammit. 

Any recommendations?

Edit. 

Only, the second one suggests to get rid of the proprietary driver.  [http://windowsforum.com/threads/need-help-bsod-caused-by-amd-radeon-r9-290-series.191692/page-4#post-620750](http://windowsforum.com/threads/need-help-bsod-caused-by-amd-radeon-r9-290-series.191692/page-4#post-620750)

If I install that, all hell breaks lose, so I stick with what appears to be MESA. Anyway. 

I've disabled Hardware Acceleration in Firefox for flash, by navigating to Youtube (in flash mode) right clicking > settings > uncheck hardware acceleration > restarted the browser. 

Any further recommendations would be helpful.

PS. I dunno how to find the speed let alone how to downgrade it.

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-11
Turns out. Not fixed.

---

### Post by Yulra on 2014-11-12
Okay.... "Black screening"... more common problem than we thought. 

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/540780/14-10-wine-and-fglrx-conflict](http://askubuntu.com/questions/540780/14-10-wine-and-fglrx-conflict)

Apparently the Open driver (MESA?) is the problem annoyingly enough. Someone really screwed up 14.10....  unfortunately you can't run wine with fglrx [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wine1.6/+bug/1376587](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wine1.6/+bug/1376587) fun.

---

### Post by birdy on 2014-11-13
I have a similar issue, possibly the same as you guys, however, I am using Google Chrome. 

Symptoms started after the 14.10 upgrade.

I've only had these problems while playing YouTube videos in full-screen.

While playing YouTube videos the Windows manager (Unity) fails in some way. After a video has completed there are no windows to access. Pressing 'Esc' does not bring me out of full screen mode, I can't close the browser or change to another application (Alt-tab does nothing) or access the desktop, but the system is not entirely frozen. I can in fact switch to another console (Ctrl-Alt-F1). After logging in there I find nothing unusual in the process list (no process running at 100% or anything like that). Also, /var/log/syslog does not report anything unusual. I've also tried restarting unity (unity --restart) but this has no effect. So, to summarize, the system (I believe Unity) fails (and I have to restart with a REISUB) but it is not a complete system freeze.

Sorry to intrude on you thread if you think this is an unrelated problem. I thought it sounded similar enough to be comment. 

Has somebody reported this as a bug on Launchpad?

---

### Post by hectorsales on 2014-12-09
Hello, I has installed the **kernel Utopic**:

> linux-generic-lts-utopic / amd64 trusty-proposed 3.16.0.26.20
Complete Generic Linux kernel and headers

on **Trusty**:

```

$ sudo apt-get install --install-recommends linux-generic-lts-utopic
```

..and if i open** firefox, youtube videos (flash), the system crash and freeze.**

**My graphic card is:**

> Graphics:  Card: Advanced Micro Devices [AMD/ATI] Bonaire XTX [Radeon R7 260X]
           bus-ID: 01:00.0
           Display Server: X.Org 1.15.1 drivers: ati,radeon (unloaded: fbdev,vesa)
           Resolution: 1920x1080@60.0hz
           GLX Renderer: Gallium 0.4 on AMD BONAIRE
           GLX Version: 3.0 Mesa 10.5.0-devel (git-0d4272c 2014-12-09 trusty-oibaf-ppa) Direct Rendering: Yes


I think the problem is the** kernel 3.16.x (utopic)**,  with the **kernel 3.13.0-41-generic (trusty)** i  have not any problems and also i have installed **the kernel 3.18.0:**

[http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/](http://kernel.ubuntu.com/~kernel-ppa/mainline/)

... and this works fine with firefox.

This problem is worrying because the next update of** trusty (14.04.2) , 5 February 2015**,** brings utopic kernel (3.16.x)**

Best regards,

Héctor.

---

### Post by tubadanm on 2014-12-29
I'm getting the same problem as the original poster.   Randomly, the UI will completely freeze, except for the mouse.  No windows or buttons will react to the mouse in this state, but the pointer moves as normally between my two displays.  Also, I'm usually on video conference all day long (google hangouts) and that appears to keep going.  Chatting with them on my phone, my peers say my cam is still operating and sending live video (I can hear them as well).  Only a forceful powerdown works.  Until I discovered ctrl+alt+f1 and the killall-compiz tip.  But that doesn't completely work, or only has a limited effect.  At some point, all I get is the default orange background image and a moving mouse, so I have to power down anyhow.

More often than not, this happens when I return to my laptop after it has powered down the screen.  the lock screen shows up with the password entry box, but keys are not responsive.  mouse moves as normal.  I end up having to power down.

> 
Linux danwork 3.16.0-28-generic #38-Ubuntu SMP Fri Dec 12 17:37:40 UTC 2014 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

    description: Notebook
    product: E1-510 (E1-510_0845_V2.05)
    vendor: Acer
    version: V0.07
     *-cpu
          description: CPU
          product: Intel(R) Celeron(R) CPU  N2920  @ 1.86GHz
          vendor: Intel Corp.
        *-display
             description: VGA compatible controller
             product: Atom Processor Z36xxx/Z37xxx Series Graphics & Display
             vendor: Intel Corporation

Dan

---

### Post by vasiauvi2 on 2015-01-03
I got the same problem on Ubuntu 14.10 (unity) for all the browsers: Firefox, Opera and Chrome. I have optimus feature with Intel and Nvidia graphic cards, html5 video is enabled and still I get freezes on videos when i enter in FULL screen. So, if I run the videos normally, in the default size is working, but as soon I enable the full screen the system is freezes. The audio is working but nothing else.

uname -a:
Linux irinel 3.16.0-28-generic #38-Ubuntu SMP Fri Dec 12 17:37:40 UTC 2014 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

---

### Post by lapis on 2015-02-22
I got the same problem on a lubuntu utopic fresh install. Also Nvidia card. First detected the problem on trusty after last xorg package update. Firefox will freeze the screen when started followed by total video jam. I installed midori and it works fine. Tried both 32 and 64 bits install, happens in both. Tried changing nvidia drivers, no success, its even worse. Currently using Nouveau with the same problem, but at least I can use the system (as long as I don't start Firefox). Tried running from console and saw Glib error before freeze.

using 3.16.0-30-generic on a athlon i686

---

### Post by PaulWhipp on 2015-11-24
I have a very similar issue. Periodically FF 42.0 windows become completely unresponsive except that I can still shrink, maximize and close them. Moving the mouse over the tabs shows the mouse over info but clicking does nothing and nothing can be highlighted or selected. Other apps/windows are all fine.

Typically happens after I come back to the system after some hours but I have known it happen spontaneously. It only affects one FF window - if I have multiple windows, the others are fine (but may ultimately suffer the same fate).

Ubuntu 14.04. Not running utopic. Pretty sure it is not correlated to flash use (I rarely use flash).

Tried removing all plugins etc. No effect.

---

