---
title: ".So file formats"
date: 2010-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pooyaplus on 2010-10-17
Hi,
I have installed Lucid on my HP tx2000 64bit laptop and trying to get the Adobe flash plugin. I have the beta version of the 64-bit plugin from the Adobe website, but it has a .so file that I can not realise how to install.
Any help would be much appreciated.

P.

---

### Post by TeoBigusGeekus on 2010-10-17
For your own usage, place the file in 
```
~/.mozilla/plugins
```
folder (create it if it doesn't exist).

For system wide usage, place it in
```
/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/
```

---

### Post by Vaphell on 2010-10-17
my box keeps the plugin in
/usr/lib/mozilla/plugins/libflashplayer.so

just copy it there (sudo/gksu required of course)

also you can use the firefox addon created by lovinglinux. FLASH-AID automates the whole thing and even fixes the common problems people have.
addon is here:
[https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/161939/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/161939/)

---

### Post by mister_playboy on 2010-10-17
You need to move the file you downloaded into the Firefox plugin in folder.  For some reason Firefox folders are scattered throughout the filesystem, but the default for plugins seems to be /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins.  Opera and Chrome will automatically find the plugin in this directory, too.

If you have libflashplayer.so in your Downloads folder (for example), you would open a terminal and enter: ```
sudo mv ~/Downloads/libflashplayer.so /usr/lib/mozilla/plugins
```

---

### Post by pooyaplus on 2010-10-18
Hi

Thanks so much, using the plugin with the system wide purposes did the trick.

Thanks again

Cheers.

---

