---
title: "14.04 login only shows wallpaper and mouse pointer"
date: 2014-09-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chris922 on 2014-09-03
I've been using 14.04 for several months without any problems but today when I had to restart my computer when my internet connection died I found that I could no longer log in through the display manager. All that happens is the login screen disappears and leaves me with a mouse pointer and my wallpaper. I can't right click, and the only short cuts that seem to work are the ones to shift to a different vm (ctrl+alt+f1-6). Currently I'm logged in manually from a tty, I had to use 'startx' to get my desktop environment running and aside from a few quirks (no sound, no shadows on windows so everything looks flat) it's working fine. 

I've done some searching and found the following two possible solutions to my problem:
cd $HOME/.cache
rm -rf sessions

in the tty without logging in and also going to settings manager > session and startup > sessions and clearing saved session. 
Neither of those things seemed to help, I still can't log in through the display manager. I've tried updating/upgrading and it still doesn't work. 

If nothing else, I'd like to at least get my sound back. Thanks for reading this.


edit: I tried logging into the guest session and it worked, not sure if that information helps or not. Still no luck with my main session though.

---

### Post by Colin_Deisenroth on 2014-09-04
Sometimes I get stuck at the lock screen with no way to type my password. Either from ssh or Ctrl-Alt-F1-6 I run "unity --replace"

I believe this just rebuilds unity one time though, I don't think it will fix your problem if some file got corrupted or deleted. Maybe you can open /var/log/messages or /var/log/syslog to see if any messages are coming in with errors. I guess in the end you could back up your home directory, reinstall, and put your home directory back on. You could also try doing this inside a VM in Virtualbox or something first to see if it works. If it doesn't and you get the same behavior on the Virtualbox VM as your desktop, you could use it as a test environment to start making "dangerous" changes to stuff to test until you figure it out.

---

### Post by Toz on 2014-09-04
"unity --replace" won't work since the OP is using Xubuntu (Xfce) not unity.

There are log files in the /var/log/lightdm directory. It would be interesting to see what is in those log files after a failed attempt - specifically the latest versions of lightdm.log and x-0-greeter.log. 

Also of interest will be the contents of the ~/.cache/upstart/startxfce4.log file. However, you'll have to get this while the login is hanging on the cursor.

You can use pastebinit to store the contents of these files in the cloud and post back the link if you'd like us to have a look at them:
```
pastebinit ~/.cache/upstart/startxfce4.log
```

---

### Post by Alexander_Wait_Zar on 2014-10-02
Hi - I posted about an identical/similar issue [here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2227976").   I will post the required files the next time I catch the problem.

---

