---
title: "Dual Displays.."
date: 2012-08-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by meduser on 2012-08-12
Hey..
I have Ubuntu 12.04, and have been running it since the day 12.04 came out. 

I have a geforce9600gt, Asus M4a785t-m motherboard, AMD Athlon(tm) II X4 640 Processor, 8GiB of memory.

My display shows in system settings as laptop, and the dimensions are 3280x1050. I have dual screens and the overall dimensions are right, but I would like it to show 2 screens, not one large one. I want different wallpaper on each monitor, and I can't do that with it as it is. 

I have NVIDIA Driver Version: 295.59

Is there a way to set this up?

I have basic skills with Linux based systems, but learn fast.

At the bottom of the Nvidia X Server settings it says switched to Metamode 3280x1050

Under X Screen Information it says:

Screen Number:   0
Display Name:    gary:0.0
Dimensions:      3280x1050(841x272 millimeters)
Resolution:      99x98 dots per inch
Depth:           24
GPU's:           GeForce9600GT(GPU 0)
Displays:        Acerx203H(DFP-1)
                 AcerX203W(DFP-0)
Recovered Errors:0
Stereo Mode:     Unknown

Can anybody help me set this up? as it is the last issue I have with Ubuntu 12.04.:confused:

---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-08-12
Hay,

Not to sure about the different wall papers and what what, but making it two separate screens is as easy as:

In the Nvidia X server Settings manager:

X server Display configuration.

Activate the screen that is your secondary monitor by clicking on model drop down list and selecting the secondary screen.

Click on advanced.

Make sure the panning corresponds to the screen's resolution.

In the configuration drop down menu, select "Separate X screen".

Now hit apply, sae to X configuration file and exit the settings manager. (Note you may need to run the settings manager with sudo privliges to save to xorg.config by running in terminal "sudo nvidia-settings")

Log out and log back in. You should now have to seperate desktop configurations. What happens on each is controled by the compiz settings on the dual display setup.

Cherz :)

---

### Post by meduser on 2012-08-12
Thanks, I will try that.

I have gone all the way thru before until the save, and then it gave me the use must be root error. I will try what you said, and report back.

---

### Post by flipper T on 2012-08-12
> **meduser said:**
> Thanks, I will try that.

I have gone all the way thru before until the save, and then it gave me the use must be root error. I will try what you said, and report back.

to avoid this, open nvidia settings from a terminal:

```
sudo nvidia-settings
```


you will be prompted for your password, enter it.

make alterations & save them.

exit / reboot / enjoy

---

### Post by meduser on 2012-08-12
ok, so I did all that, and have both monitors set up as x screens, however, on my main display, I get the following error:

Could not apply the stored configuration for monitors

none of the selected modes were compatible with the possible modes:
Trying modes for CRTC 664
CRTC 664: trying mode 1680x1050@50Hz with output at 1600x900@50Hz (pass 0)
CRTC 664: trying mode 1680x1050@51Hz with output at 1600x900@50Hz (pass 0)


etc, etc, etc...it just keeps going and going.

I also can not drag and drop onto the other screen in this format, so it seems kind of useless to me. 

Twinview is not working right either.

---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-08-12
> **meduser said:**
> 
none of the selected modes were compatible with the possible modes:
Trying modes for CRTC 664
CRTC 664: trying mode 1680x1050@50Hz with output at 1600x900@50Hz (pass 0)
CRTC 664: trying mode 1680x1050@51Hz with output at 1600x900@50Hz (pass 0)


Hay please post the output of:
```
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

So we can see what your current settings are.

Cherz

---

### Post by meduser on 2012-08-12
# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 295.59  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-05.nvidia.com)  Wed Jun  6 22:30:33 PDT 2012

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 295.59  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-05.nvidia.com)  Wed Jun  6 22:30:53 PDT 2012

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

	# generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer X203W"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 75.0
    Option         "DPMS"
	# HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Acer X203H"
    HorizSync       31.0 - 80.0
    VertRefresh     55.0 - 75.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 9600 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "1"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0; DFP-0: 1680x1050_60_0 +0+0, DFP-1: nvidia-auto-select +1680+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "NoLogo" "True"
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "DFP-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0; DFP-0: 1680x1050_60_0 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "DFP-1: 1600x900 +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "DFP-1: 1600x900_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by zero2xiii on 2012-08-12
Hay,

Hmmmm strange... 

I don't seem to see why the settings:

> CRTC 664: trying mode 1680x1050@50Hz with output at 1600x900@50Hz (pass 0)
 CRTC 664: trying mode 1680x1050@51Hz with output at 1600x900@50Hz (pass 0)

Are being tried. Since the monitors are set to use:

> Option "metamodes" "DFP-0: 1680x1050_60 +0+0; DFP-0: 1680x1050_60_0 +0+0"
 >  Option "metamodes" "DFP-1: 1600x900_60 +0+0"
 SubSection "Display"

Respectively.

Wow. Can you maybe give more details on the exact error you get? A screenshot or terminal dump maybe?

Cherz

---

