---
title: "11.04 support for optimus intel side"
date: 2012-08-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eightdollarbeer on 2012-08-14
i just bought a new laptop i thought i was the best choice . it is a Samsung chrono 7 it has every thing i wanted 1tb drive ssd card nvidia graphics . turns out only the new ubuntu covers hdmi 11.04 wont see the card. now ive been forced to use windows 7 for a month due to no optimus support no hdmi output no hdmi sound. since i need 2 screens i use windows and i hate it i cant use 11.10 or above i need my gnome 2 why isnt there a gnome 2 ver?. can any one help me ive tried everything. ive already put this 13-1400 dollar pc up for sale on facebook for 1000 . that desperate. thanks
plz no nate not cinnamon thanks.
much regret to the death of gnome 2

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-08-14
> **eightdollarbeer said:**
> i just bought a new laptop i thought i was the best choice . it is a Samsung chrono 7 it has every thing i wanted 1tb drive ssd card nvidia graphics . turns out only the new ubuntu covers hdmi 11.04 wont see the card. now ive been forced to use windows 7 for a month due to no optimus support no hdmi output no hdmi sound. since i need 2 screens i use windows and i hate it i cant use 11.10 or above i need my gnome 2 why isnt there a gnome 2 ver?. can any one help me ive tried everything. ive already put this 13-1400 dollar pc up for sale on facebook for 1000 . that desperate. thanks
plz no nate not cinnamon thanks.
much regret to the death of gnome 2

Gnome 3 is available with 80% of the features of Gnome 2, there are already may HOWTOs on how to install it on 12.04.

---

### Post by kurt18947 on 2012-08-14
> **dcstar said:**
> Gnome 3 is available with 80% of the features of Gnome 2, there are already may HOWTOs on how to install it on 12.04.

There's also MATE which seems to closely emulate Gnome 2.  How long will MATE be devloped?  Who knows.  There is talk of a major distro (Fedora?) offering MATE.  I don't go for eye candy but I find Gnome shell w/ extensions, Cinnamon, XFCE and Lxde all quite usable.  My sun does not rise and set on Gnome 2 any more than it did on the Win98 interface which I used for years.

---

