---
title: "Apache hassels"
date: 2006-09-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sheep on 2006-09-24
Ok.. I've installed Apache 1.3 on Ubuntu Linux 6.06.

First problem:

  I can connect to the server from localhost yet two friends of mine accross the internet can not. /etc/hosts.allow and /etc/hosts.deny are full of comments, here is some further information:

```

root:~# iptables --list
Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination

Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination

Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
target     prot opt source               destination
root:~# iptables-save
# Generated by iptables-save v1.3.3 on Sun Sep 24 22:59:16 2006
*filter
:INPUT ACCEPT [14:1544]
:FORWARD ACCEPT [0:0]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [20:1657]
COMMIT
# Completed on Sun Sep 24 22:59:16 2006

```

I have an altered /etc/hots file [all ipv6 addresses have been removed, now it looks like this:

```
127.0.0.1       localhost.localdomain localhost
127.0.1.1       ubuntu.void ubuntu

```

I've ran Ethereal and can see SYN requests, port 80 from my friends' IP addresses yet my computer doesn't reply. The same thing happens with OpenSSH-Server.

I don't think anyone can know from the above info what the problem is/might be.. but I'd be more than happy for a few advice on debug actions I should take in order to try to discover the cause.

Second problem: SSI don't work by default, which is odd because they seem to be enabled in /etc/apache/httpd.conf (default config file).

---

### Post by Average Joe on 2006-09-24
I think you should configure your /etc/host file such that your real ip address is in there, not just the localhost loopback address (127.0.0.1 and 127.0.1.1). If you go to System > Administration > Network tools, you can find your ip address. Make sure NOT TO REMOVE the 127.0.x.x stuff, otherwise you are screwed big time!

Further more, in your httpd.conf file, you should add the ip address to the Listen entry, that makes the Apche server actually responding to http requests from other ip addresses (your friends). Also, your ServerName should have this address.

I think it should work then.

EDIT: Are you sure SSI is enabled by default? I think you should add a +Includes at the Options entry of the root directory in your httpd.conf file.

---

### Post by sheep on 2006-09-25
Didn't work.

---

### Post by sheep on 2006-09-25
Never mind.. I've tried it with an alternative operating system and the problems remained.. so it's not because of ubuntu but rather my ISP. I've emailed them to b!tch about it.

---

