---
title: "Help: clamtk quarantined GDM, can't boot ubuntu"
date: 2008-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jnewm on 2008-07-16
Hi all,

I foolishly ran Clamtk with the automatic quarantine option checked and exited Ubuntu while failing to note that Clamtk had quarantined gdm.  Now gdm crashes when I try to boot Ubuntu.  

I found one related post where the poster reinstalled ubuntu-desktop, but unlike that poster I was not clever enough to put my home directory in a different partition, so I'm concerned about losing my settings, etc.  (PS I am a relative noob, and am only assuming from the other post that this would be the result of reinstalling ubuntu-desktop, I actually have no clue).

So, I was wondering if there was any way to get gdm back that wouldn't mess up my settings.  I can access Ubuntu from the command line of course, and also from Windows, where my Ubuntu partition is mounted.  I can also find the quarantine folder under the clamtk folder.  I just don't have any idea how to restore the quarantined files without the Clamtk graphical interface.

Is there anyway I can restore the files with Clamtk via the command line?  Or is there anyway I can manually restore the files from Windows or the command line, without Clamtk?  Or, lastly, is there any way to just get a new gdm without losing all my settings or reinstalling ubuntu-desktop?

Thanks so much everyone!
Jesse

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-07-16
> **jnewm said:**
> Hi all,

I foolishly ran Clamtk with the automatic quarantine option checked and exited Ubuntu while failing to note that Clamtk had quarantined gdm.  Now gdm crashes when I try to boot Ubuntu.  

I found one related post where the poster reinstalled ubuntu-desktop, but unlike that poster I was not clever enough to put my home directory in a different partition, so I'm concerned about losing my settings, etc.  (PS I am a relative noob, and am only assuming from the other post that this would be the result of reinstalling ubuntu-desktop, I actually have no clue).
.......

No, the settings remain, only a full Ubuntu install will wipe you /home settings.

Do a reinstall of the ubuntu-desktop package and you should be ok.

---

### Post by WRDN on 2008-07-16
ubuntu-desktop refers to a package, available in the repo's, rather than the OS itself. It includes many of the programs that come with Ubuntu.

What happens if you type:

```
startx
```

---

### Post by jnewm on 2008-07-16
Thank you both for responding so fast!  But I'm afraid I have some more Qs, if anyone is willing to bear with me.

First though, Dcstar thanks for the information, that's good to know for this and future screw ups.  And WRDN great call on the startx!  I'm writing this from Ubuntu right now. 

Nonetheless, as I mentioned, I'm still having some troubles.  (I'm also going to spell out some things I resolved, in case by doing so I can make this post more helpful to others).  

Basically, I was right away able to "unquarantine" some regular old files of mine in Clamtx, by clicking "false positive."  But when I tried to do the same for gdm, gdm.VIRUS, and cache.VIRUS, Clamtx responded "operation failed."  I eventually solved this, however, by running "sudo Clamtx" from the terminal, which allowed me to restore cache.VIRUS.

But, before I did the same for gdm and gdm.VIRUS, I realized that Clamtx was just moving all these files back to my home folder, not wherever they originally came from.  Further, the log file generated by Clamtx basically tells me nothing about the files' original directories.  Now, this isn't too big a problem for my regular old files (although it is frustrating).  But for the gdm and gdm.VIRUS files (and I have no idea about the cache.VIRUS files), I assume this could be problematic.

So, for now I haven't unquarantined the gdm false positives.  What I have done, however, is found what I think is the list of files that are included in these mistaken quarantines, by running "sudo nautilus" and going into the ".clamtx/viruses" folder.  

So, sorry for such a long reply.  But do you, Dcstar or WRDN, or anyone else know in what directories these files belong?!  Specifically, the files in the "gdm" quarantine folder include: ":0.log," ":0.log.1," ":0.log.2," "0.log.3," and "0.log.4."  And the files in the "gdm.VIRUS" folder include the folder ".fontconfig" and the files ":0.Xauth," ":0.Xservers," ".cookie," and "gdmfifo."

Any thoughts?  Otherwise, it sounds like maybe I should just take the ubuntu-desktop reinstall route?

Thanks again! 
Jesse

---

### Post by WRDN on 2008-07-16
GDM has many files, and when I searched for them, many are in the /etc/gdm directory.

Rather than moving the files back, it would be easier to enter synaptic and search for the package "gdm". This should be installed, and the description should say "GNOME Display Manager". Right click and "Mark for Reinstallation", then hit "Apply" and hopefully, the files will be replaced.

---

### Post by jnewm on 2008-10-21
Hi WRDN,

Sorry for the delayed "thank you," but I was so happy to solve everything that I forgot to respond.

So, thanks again for your help.  I really appreciate it!

---

