---
title: "12.04.4 LTS -- Modifier keys not working"
date: 2014-02-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by synd2 on 2014-02-10
Hello,
modifiers keys alt, ctrl, shift are not working at all for me. 
I searched 2 hours straight for solutions, but none to apply for 12.04.4 LTS.

My keyboard is Zowie Celeritas and I'm using it through the USB port of a laptop. I don't have a PS/2 port.
I read threads about this problem, but none of them were from 2013/2014, so I hope there is a solution for this problem in recent Ubuntu versions.

Your ideas how to fix  this?

---

### Post by bc.haynes on 2014-02-10
Hey, synd2, Welcome to the forums.
I am a newbie, too. I have found that, while you wait for help, posting some specs on your system will be helpful to whoever helps you. Just a suggestion.

---

### Post by synd2 on 2014-02-10
Well, actually I did say what matters.
Ubuntu 12.04.4 LTS and the keyboard is Zowie Celeritas plugged in through the usb port.
Do people need to know something else?

---

### Post by bc.haynes on 2014-02-10
Check out - [http://askubuntu.com/questions/129755/keyboard-shortcuts-not-working-in-12-04](http://askubuntu.com/questions/129755/keyboard-shortcuts-not-working-in-12-04)

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2014-02-10
Don't know anything about your keyboard, but I know that it doesn't matter if it's a usb or ps2 keyboard.
That said, in the program "keyboard layout" in system settings, is the correct layout listed?
Like if you're in France, it isn't something like the Japanese layout, or something like that.

As I stated, don't know about your keyboard, but that's probably the first place I would look.

---

### Post by synd2 on 2014-02-11
After some debugging I realized that the ALT, CTRL, SHIFT keys are working but not as modifiers. When I try ALT+TAB or any other combination with the modifiers keys - it just register the modifier but not the following key. ALT+TAB = only ALT registered.
I tried remapping them but there also, only the modifier key is registered but not the following key.

Any other ideas

---

