---
title: "No keyboard at grub first boot, keyboard after restart"
date: 2011-06-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-06-27
Hi all,

Computer: Toshiba Satellite Pro L510 laptop, 10.10.

This has always happened but I have gotten around it by time-out and putting my menu.list in order. 

When I first boot the machine (switch on for the day from computer being off) I get to the grub options to select a kernel and I have no keyboard. No up/down arrows so have to go with the kernel on top of the list (not always desirable).

When I get to the log-in screen if I hit restart and go back to the grub screen I have a keyboard and can select any kernel. If I login to the kernel I have full keyboard, no problem. If I then restart, I have keyboard at the grub list. 

Nutshell: It is only when starting the computer fresh that the keyboard is dead at grub menu (and then only). Any time after that, once the computer has been switched on, if I restart I have keyboard at grub menu and can select different kernels. (Of course, if I switch the computer *off* and back on again, no keyboard ...)

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-06-27
Have you tried checking the BIOS settings to see if there are keyboard options to either enable or disable? How about trying a different USB port, if it's USB.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-06-27
Laptop, no USB. Would the BIOS effect only a cold boot or a restart also? I'll look.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-06-27
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Laptop, no USB. Would the BIOS effect only a cold boot or a restart also? I'll look.

Sorry, forgot it was a laptop. Since the keyboard is integrated I wouldn't expect the BIOS to have any settings that might affect things, even if it would act differently on a cold versus warm boot.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-06-28
This problem has happened ever since I installed 10.10 (cos 10.04 wouldn't install back then). Now 10.04 installs and works fine. Maybe I should reinstall 10.04 and let that take control of the grub (overwrite the existing one which is generated by 10.10 kernel/install ...)?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2011-06-28
There are two keyboard modules available in Grub2: *at_keyboard.mod* and *usb_keyboard.mod*.

I don't know enough about them to know if they would help or hurt your situation. You could try placing one of them in the grub.cfg file near the top just to see if loading the module allows the keyboard to function once the grub menu is displayed.

I'd try it by just editing the grub.cfg file manually and adding the "insmod usb_keyboard.mod" or "insmod at_keyboard.mod" so that you can just run "sudo update-grub" to get rid of it should it not work.

I'd also not try it unless you have a LiveCD you can boot from so if your keyboard completely freezes you will be able to boot and have control of your keyboard. You would then be able to mount your Ubuntu partition from the LiveCD and remove the change manually. Set your system to boot the CD first before you experiment with the keyboard modules just in case it's needed.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-07-03
Thanks for the tip, drs305, but *at_keyboard.mod *is already in /boot/grub*. *USB module irrelevant as laptop keyboard.

I'll keep digging. ;)

---

### Post by vlada.kozousek on 2012-04-07
Bucky Ball
I have exactly the same problem. Did you ever found a solution ?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-04-07
> **vlada.kozousek said:**
> Bucky Ball
I have exactly the same problem. Did you ever found a solution ?

Nope, still exactly the same. I gave up. You might like to post a new thread about this and see if anyone else has ideas. This one is pretty old ...

If you do, post the link back here ... ;)

I am using 10.10 by the way. Are you?

---

### Post by Featalene on 2012-04-18
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> Hi all,

Nutshell: It is only when starting the computer fresh that the keyboard is dead at grub menu (and then only). Any time after that, once the computer has been switched on, if I restart I have keyboard at grub menu and can select different kernels. (Of course, if I switch the computer *off* and back on again, no keyboard ...)

Any thoughts?

I have an HP Probook 6545b with the exact opposite problem, I think. When I either cold boot from powered off or a restart from Windows 7 x64 I can use the USB keyboard as input to Grub. If I restart from Ubuntu 11.10 the keyboard is not initialized. Grub takes no input and the num lock and caps lock do not respond.

I'm assuming an error in the Grub USB or USB keyboard initialization code but looking at that is over my head.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2012-04-18
> **Featalene said:**
> I have an HP Probook 6545b with the exact opposite problem, I think. When I either cold boot from powered off or a restart from Windows 7 x64 I can use the USB keyboard as input to Grub. If I restart from Ubuntu 11.10 the keyboard is not initialized. Grub takes no input and the num lock and caps lock do not respond.

I'm assuming an error in the Grub USB or USB keyboard initialization code but looking at that is over my head.

Very old thread and your issue is not the same as the thread title describes.

You will get more help by posting a new thread about your issue. ;)

---

