---
title: "[10.04] Rhythmbox double click"
date: 2010-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Frasc0 on 2010-05-06
I upgraded to 10.04 and now rhythmbox won't show when I double-click on the toolbar icon. It's really messing up my Ubuntu experience...

Can anyone help?

---

### Post by mheseltine on 2010-05-08
me to...this sucks

also, using the hard play/pause buttons on my lappy doesn't seem to be working properly anymore. they work if I'm playing local mp3 files but the play button does not seem to work with shoutcast stations any more

---

### Post by El~Zilcho on 2010-05-26
You can probably get your multimedia keys back by typing
gconf-editor
Expand the apps tab, scroll down to rythmbox and expand it, expand plugins then click on mmkeys. If the box next to active isn't selected that's probably the cause, click it on and your keys should work straight away.

---

### Post by r_s on 2010-05-26
Try from the terminal and look for any errors.

---

### Post by humhook on 2010-05-26
> **Frasc0 said:**
> I upgraded to 10.04 and now rhythmbox won't show when I double-click on the toolbar icon. It's really messing up my Ubuntu experience...

Can anyone help?


or other music players?

---

### Post by timgood on 2010-05-26
In 10.04 this is the default behaviour for notification tray icons - Transmission does not open when double clicked either. You have to click and then choose 'Show Rhythmbox'. I preferred the old way - when you hovered over Transmission you got some useful info on up/down speeds. Now, nothing. But progress is progress, though not always forward.

---

### Post by mrkazoodle on 2010-05-29
I agree, maybe we should post it on brainstorm, if people hear about it, they can fix it

---

### Post by lunatico on 2010-05-29
I hate that I can't scroll on the icon to change songs. hat used to be possible by enabling and configuring the plugin.

---

