---
title: "9.04 not booting"
date: 2009-12-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by savtargm on 2009-12-01
I have a dual-boot Dell XPS 1210 that was running XP and Ubuntu 9.04 perfectly until few hours ago. Something I did seems to have affected Ubuntu and now it does not boot at all. Here is what I did:
- Downloaded MySQL 5.1's tar version, unzipped and installed it.
- Copied MySQL server startup script to /etc/init.d and created links in /etc/rc3.d and /etc/rc0.d to start and shutdown the server daemon
- While checking "ps -ef", I found some "evolution" related processes. Figured I no longer need them and can save some space. So, I launched Synaptics Package Manager and removed the packages. No issue till now.
- Rebooted the system. Can select Ubuntu entry in GRUB but after that nothing happens.

So, I booted it again in recovery mode and dropped down to shell with root. Removed the MySQL server script in /etc/init.d and the links in /etc/rc3.d and etc/rc0.d and resumed booting. This time, it shows me login prompt and I enter username/password to login. Nothing happens after that. I don't get to the desktop.

Does anybody have an idea what's going on? All help appreciated.

Thanks.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-01
When you are waiting for the desktop that doesn't appear, what happens when you press CTRL + ALT + Backspace?

---

### Post by savtargm on 2009-12-02
>> When you are waiting for the desktop that doesn't appear, 
>> what happens when you press CTRL + ALT + Backspace?

Pressing CTRL + ALT + Backspace shows me a small window in the center to select "Desk1" or "Desk2". I tried both and the blank screen remains.

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2009-12-02
[FONT=Fixedsys][SIZE=2]Drop into a single user mode and see if that helps.  Boot. At grub prompt, hit escape immediately. Select your favorite linux image and hit e and [/SIZE][/FONT][SIZE=4][FONT=Fixedsys][SIZE=2]change the ro to rw and add init=/bin/bash. Hit enter and boot into a shell.  Now type your favorite desktop manager kdm(kde) or gdm(gnome).  Hope that helps a bit.[/SIZE][/FONT]
[/SIZE]

---

### Post by savtargm on 2009-12-08
Thanks, John and Blueridge. I tried what you mentioned but things did not work out. So, I finally took a backup and reinstalled 9.04.

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2009-12-08
Good solution!  I was at a loss as to another step other than a clean install.

---

