---
title: "9.04 choking on large file operations"
date: 2009-11-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dvfreelancer on 2009-11-16
This is a real problem for me.  Any time I'm dealing with large files or large volume of files on a USB drive, network drive and sometimes even between internal drives.  File operations will simply stop responding.  On a network copy, like moving a large volume of files from the Windows box to my 9.04 box, Ubuntu will throw an error that disk is write protected or otherwise not available.  But if I cut down the number of files and copy them a few at a time, they copy over with no problems.  

If the files are large enough, like video files that come from my camera, the file processes just choke, even on single files. Although sometimes one or two will copy before it stalls out.  Once it stalls, then there's a phantom file process out there that doesn't go away.    

I've had to switch the camera over to the Windows box to offload the video files.  If it's just a few pictures, it works just fine, but for really large files 300-500 megs, it just stops responding.  

What's really too bad is when there are just a few files, then Ubuntu is really fast.  But over certain size, choke-o-rama.  

This is a real problem for me as I do my image work on Ubuntu but video editing on the Windows box and the camera has both types of files.  I need to move a lot of big files around.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2009-11-16
Howdy,

I have not seen that problem myself, but I suspect that it will go away if you add more RAM and/or swap space to the machine.

---

### Post by DeMus on 2009-11-16
No, it's not a matter of memory and/or swap. It's just that the disk or disks are so busy all with the moving or copying of those files, the disks have no time to do other stuff. I had the same and installed Jaunty on a Raid0, thus improving the transfer speed by 100%. And that helps. No more greyed-out screens, no more unresponsive programs. All is working well now.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-16
I see some performance issues when transferring fairly large .dv files (< 4G) from ext3 to ntfs. The first one goes OK, then it bogs down. The first one tachs 72MB/s, subsequent files tach around 17MB/s (big difference).

Going the other way, I can copy 20 4G files from ntfs to ext3 and average 88MB/s (different physical disks) and from ext3 to ext3 it's about the same.

I tweaked all the filesystems to turn off atime, and max out the readahead buffer use on the drives. But those figures are the best I could get.

My fix: I built a custom 64-bit Cinelerra for video editing on the Jaunty box.

Yes, I cheated.

On this box, I do video and image editing under Win7 with the overpriced but highly useful Adobe code. I'm a wimp.

My wife's the pro video guru however, and that Jaunty box is hers. Changing workflow is a female dog, but it was the only quick workaround I could come up with. And her majesty the guru/boss likes it now that she's used to it.

She transfers work from Cinelerra to Encore via ssh and uses remote desktop to finish the DVD work in Encore.

Maybe this anecdotal info was useful.

---

### Post by dvfreelancer on 2009-11-18
Specifically where I'm having problems is copying large .MOV files out of the camera.  A few jpg's (about 5 megs each) it handles no problems.  But when I try to copy the video files, which can be anywhere from 300 Megs to a gig or better, it'll copy one, sometimes two, then stalls out.  

Those phantom file processes may still be in there, because if I connect the camera to Jaunty, it says it can't unmount the volume because 1 file is in use.  That even after a cold reboot.  

My usb drives I can use the terminal to move files around, except the camera isn't listed in /media.  It shows up on the desktop and Nautilus says something like gphoto2:[usb:001,000] and I can't figure out how to get to the file list in terminal to try cp and mv.  

Today I'm going to try connecting the camera to 9.10 to see if this is limited to Jaunty.  But if I can't use 9.10 to move the camera files from the camera or a card reader to an external drive in the field, that's going to suck massive donkey testicles.

---

### Post by ljubomirjosifovski on 2009-11-30
> **dvfreelancer said:**
> This is a real problem for me.  Any time I'm dealing with large files or large volume of files on a USB drive, network drive and sometimes even between internal drives.  File operations will simply stop responding. 

You are not the only one, may want to have a look at

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/427210](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/427210)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/381300](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/381300)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/343371](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/343371)

Having similar problem when copying multi-GB files, decided to try
```
$ sudo bash
# echo deadline > /sys/block/sda/queue/scheduler

```for my /dev/sda disk. (think sudo echo blah > blah will not work, redirection happens "after" sudo)

Adding the line to /etc/rc.local should make the change "permanent", just not sure if it is considered "kosher" to do so.

---

### Post by dvfreelancer on 2009-12-01
Here's a new wrinkle.  I got a card reader and when I connect by sticking the card in the reader, it shows up in /media.  If I connect the camera directly, it pops up but isn't mounted through /media.  I can't find where the camera mounts via the command line so I'm limited to the gui tools.  

At least now that I can get to the card via /media, I'll be able to try copy and move via the command line or maybe rsync.  

I did a test copy with Nautilus and went fine, but the real test will be when I have three or four GB size video files in there.

---

### Post by jamesisin on 2009-12-07
I see pretty large performance hits when I am doing large file operations (moving a bunch of files of smallish sizes which total largish chunks).  On a server I am running with 9.10 Desktop it pegs my CPU in System Monitor and other operations are very difficult (like opening a menu or clicking a button) because of this.

In my case it is certainly not strictly related to the I/O of the drives in question.  None of this data transfer involves files on the OS drive/partition.  I'm going to check out those bugs listed above for good measure.

---

### Post by gradinaruvasile on 2009-12-07
Copy from USB cameras uses gphoto. 
I too have problems with that - it lags badly when i attach a camera with lots of pictures on it (i turned off thumbnailing on both pictures and movies and this solved the problem partially) or larger movies. And when copying the transfer speed isnt constant.
Try turning off the thumbnailing, maybe helps.

---

