---
title: "(11.10) All applications gone from Dash Launcher"
date: 2011-11-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by irishetalon007 on 2011-11-30
I'm running Ubuntu 11.10

I can no longer open any applications that aren't already in my sidebar! When I click the Dash Home or press the Windows Key, then click any of the "Apps" buttons, it's all empty! Searches for my applications that I usually use (rsync, gparted, gnome alsa mixer, gimp, etc) brings up nothing anymore, too!

I don't even know where these applications are stored or how to open them aside from their Dash "shortcuts," or if i know their CLI commands, of which I know very few and doesn't always work the way I'd like it to.

Thanks in advance!!

---

### Post by t1mh0pe on 2011-12-05
Bump. It seems to have happened since the last update I did (new kernel?). Files shortcuts is empty, apps shortcuts is empty, searches return only music files. The only applications accessible are the ones in the dock or the ones whose name I can remember to type into the terminal.

---

### Post by dennmans on 2011-12-18
I am having this problem too.  When I use the program launcher and type in the program I wish to start, it does not appear in the results, in fact the only programs I can start are the ones already in the unity sidebar.

This occurred after the last update on 18th dec 2011, which included a kernel update.  I am using Ubuntu 11.10 on an Acer EEE pc 1005px

---

### Post by worksofcraft on 2011-12-18
IDK how relevant it is but I started up my Ubuntu 10.4 one day only to find that the gnome panels had disappeared and there was nothing to click on. It took me ages to recreate them which was quite annoying since I was desperate to send some emergency e-mails after a major earthquake here and just about the very last thing I wanted was to be learning the wonders of Linux.

Now I'm a happy Microsoft customer :)

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2011-12-18
> **worksofcraft said:**
> IDK how relevant it is but I started up my Ubuntu 10.4 one day only to find that the gnome panels had disappeared and there was nothing to click on. It took me ages to recreate them which was quite annoying since I was desperate to send some emergency e-mails after a major earthquake here and just about the very last thing I wanted was to be learning the wonders of Linux.

Now I'm a happy Microsoft customer :)
What are you doing here then?

---

### Post by chmac on 2012-01-08
I'm having the same issue on Precise alpha-1. Did you find a solution?

---

### Post by irishetalon007 on 2012-02-05
In the end I uninstalled and reverted to 10.04.

---

### Post by Wesnprogamat on 2012-02-13
I found this when googling "All applications gone from Dash Launcher"

[http://ubuntugenius.wordpress.com/2012/01/12/missing-applications-places-or-system-menus-how-to-reset-ubuntus-classic-gnome-23-panel/]("http://ubuntugenius.wordpress.com/2012/01/12/missing-applications-places-or-system-")

And I found out you can open terminal with ctrl+alt+t, if you weren't paranoid enough (Like me) to HAVE terminal on the panel specifically.

While, yes, I have the problem again of " All applications gone from Dash Launcher", It seems an issue for only one "user", so I ask: Will this (Being:"

If you can&#8217;t add the menus back to your panel, for example you can&#8217;t invoke &#8221;***Add to Panel&#8230;***&#8221;  with a right-click, it&#8217;s time to reset the menus to their defaults,  which is done by deleting some configuration files. Actually,  technically you&#8217;re not deleting anything, as the 2 files in question are  simply renamed with .*bak* extensions [so they're still there if you really need them later], forcing **Gnome** to recreate those files with default values.
 To [COLOR=#ff0000]**force Gnome to rewrite its panel menus with default values**[/COLOR], enter the following command into a terminal:
 [COLOR=#3366ff]**mv  ~/.config/menus/applications.menu ~/.config/menus/applications.menu.bak  && mv ~/.config/menus/settings.menu  ~/.config/menus/settings.menu.bak**[/COLOR]
 (That should work with either **Gnome 2** or **3**, though the settings menu part of it probably won&#8217;t do anything in **Gnome 3**).
 All you have to do now is log out, then once you log back in again,  your panel should be back with all its menus. Or you can simply enter **[COLOR=#3366ff]killall gnome-panel[/COLOR]** into the terminal and it should successfully refresh your panels without having to log out.
")

change the Panels of ALL users or just the one you are in?

And I just tried "killall gnome-panel"

and it said"
gnome-panel: no process found
"

And furthermore, when I specifically minimize all screened programs I have up (AKA all that make the top panel have X _ and square and all the rest) it seems to decide that it has to be the menu "for" the desktop. Is it supposed to be (by default) the desktop menu?

Just tried "mv  ~/.config/menus/applications.menu  ~/.config/menus/applications.menu.bak  && mv  ~/.config/menus/settings.menu  ~/.config/menus/settings.menu.bak". It didn't seem to do anything.

This is Ubuntu 11.10

---

### Post by chmac on 2012-02-14
Thanks for sharing. That post relates to the Gnome Classic desktop, the issue I'm having is with Unity.

---

### Post by Wesnprogamat on 2012-02-14
I after some searching I found these:

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/34902/search-results-in-unity-are-always-empty](http://askubuntu.com/questions/34902/search-results-in-unity-are-always-empty)

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/97093/unity-dash-completely-empty-all-of-a-sudden-howto-fix](http://askubuntu.com/questions/97093/unity-dash-completely-empty-all-of-a-sudden-howto-fix)


Do they help?

---

### Post by chmac on 2012-02-14
Thanks again for the research. I've checked those threads and all the associated threads I could find. None of them have worked. My dash works properly on a guest profile, so I'm assuming it must be something in my home directory left over from when I installed 12.04 over 10.10.

Neither of the following had any effect on my issue:
> apt-get install --reinstall unity-lens-applications unity-lens-files unity-lens-music
unity --reset

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-02-14
> **chmac said:**
> I've checked those threads and all the associated threads I could find. None of them have worked. My dash works properly on a guest profile, so I'm assuming it must be something in my home directory ...
Please try this:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11636309#post11636309](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11636309#post11636309)

Regards.

---

### Post by chmac on 2012-02-14
Thanks for the suggestion. I was optimistic when I rebooted my machine. Alas, no change since renaming ~/.cache/software-centre. :-(

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-02-14
> **chmac said:**
> Alas, no change since renaming ~/.cache/software-centre. :-(
Too bad! Then it's apparently yet another, different - and possibly Precise-specific - issue with the Applications Lens. Btw., is it present in your Dash or not?

---

### Post by chmac on 2012-02-14
The application lens is present and empty, as are the home, music, and files lenses. All present, all empty, but all working as expected in a clean profile...

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-02-14
> **chmac said:**
> The application lens is present and empty, as are the home, music, and files lenses. All present, all empty, but all working as expected in a clean profile...
Have you already tried deleting the Zeitgeist database!? Same thread as I linked to before:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11623855#post11623855](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11623855#post11623855)

---

### Post by chmac on 2012-02-14
OUTSTANDING! That worked! Fantastic! After nearly a month of unity without a proper app launcher, it finally works. I had to log out / in after deleting the zeitgest db, but now it's all working. Nothing in the music lens, but I might be using the wrong media player, and I'm really not fussed.

Now all I need to do is figure out how to stop confidential files from appearing in the recent list, but I dare say that's easy enough. :-)

Krytarik, a thousand thankyous, this has been one of the niggling issues that has really bugged me since upgrading. I'm deeply grateful for your time and input into this problem. Truly, thank you kindly.

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-02-14
> **chmac said:**
> Now all I need to do is figure out how to stop confidential files from appearing in the recent list, but I dare say that's easy enough.
Yeah, like so :P :

[http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/05/clear-tweak-zeitgeist-historys-settings.html](http://www.tuxgarage.com/2011/05/clear-tweak-zeitgeist-historys-settings.html)

And, you're very welcome, great that it worked! :D (Honestly, I didn't expect that too much.)

---

### Post by chmac on 2012-02-14
Just installed activity-log-manager and have set up a couple of blacklists. Fantastic. :-)

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2012-02-14
> **chmac said:**
> Just installed activity-log-manager and have set up a couple of blacklists. Fantastic. :-)
Oops, that was quick! :P Nah, for anyone else following this thread, he's found that out himself. ;-)

---

### Post by irishetalon007 on 2012-06-01
Thanks guys, I'm glad everything worked out! I ended up reverting to Gnome/Gnome Classic, but I'm glad this got worked out in case I get over myself and eventually try unity again!

Solved.

---

