---
title: "10.04 crashing all the time"
date: 2010-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Blacksheep01 on 2010-09-09
Hello, I have Ubuntu 10.04 32bit on two machines and the one for my parents has been crashing/having other issues a lot (the other is fine). I build my own PCs, and this one I built for my parents as a budget build as they basically use the internet and upload photos, that's it. It's got an AMD 64 3800+ processor, a GeForce 8400GS, 1 Gig of Corsair DDR2 (this passed 8 hours of memtest), an ASUS M2A-VM mobo and a 320GB WD HDD. 

The crashes initially and may still be, GUI/graphics related. The biggest problem is they would boot up the system and there would be no GUI, it just never loaded so they would hard reboot. The other thing that would happen, when it went into screensaver mode, moving the mouse wouldn't bring up the password prompt, it wouldn't do anything just leave a black screen with no mouse, it would lead to a hard restart. These problems initially occurred on an older HDD that used to have windows xp on it that my parents loaded with viruses. Of course that HDD had been reformatted for Ubuntu, but I felt that it was damaged and these problems were related so I went and got a new Western Digital one for them and installed it with fresh installs of Ubuntu 10.04 (and a dual boot of Windows 7) but these crashing issues have persisted.

I found a fix on here that had me "force" the GUI to load each time via the terminal, which seems to have worked somewhat and the GUI loads more often. However, every now and then on boot up, parts of the GUI do not load and a window pops up asking that I delete elements from the panel. Again, this leads to a restart, except now sometimes when it reboots it gets to a DOS prompt (sorry, old windows user) of sorts that asks for a system password, when entered, nothing happens and requires another hard restart. These restarts tend to happen in chains leading to DOS prompt a faulty GUI or a GUI with missing elements.

There are also other general issues. Periodically desktop icons won't launch programs and or menu items will not load programs when selected, just nothing happens. When browsing the net with Opera or trying to open the recycle bin, the screen will just go black.

I also messed around with the built in Nvidia Driver finder tool under system - administration-hardwaredrivers, tried the recommended and not recommended drivers, no difference. I've booted into recovery mode on the grub menu tried fixing and updating things via the menu options, still get one of the above issues.

This system is up to date with system updates as well. I'm not sure what else to do, but I still have a sinking suspicion this is caused by some kind of graphics driver problem or maybe a problem with that graphics card in particular! I've installed Ubuntu fresh on this machine 3 total times, the latest install only last month when I created a dual boot with Win7.

Any help or ideas would be much appreciated. Keep in mind I'm a relative Ubuntu Newbie, using this only since May.

---

### Post by Blacksheep01 on 2010-09-10
Bump. I'm about tapped out on this one. I'm not sure if it's a driver issue or a hardware compatibility problem, but all I can think to do is reformat again. Even the Win7 install is now messed up, probably due to the endless chain of hard reboots over the last few weeks, it performed ok when I set everything up this second time for about a week or two, now the second the Win7 boot screen pops up, it goes into a physical memory dump then reboots or hangs on a black screen. again, maybe the graphics card is the problem?

I'd just hate to have them buy a new graphics card and more RAM, then have me do a reformat (I'd try 64 bit version this time) and still have something be wrong. I wish I could confirm it is a specific driver or piece of hardware.

---

### Post by utnubuuser on 2010-09-10
I don't know much about the nvidea drivers - used to see a lot of threads about people getting the driver directly from the nvidea site or wherever it comes from, rather than using the version that ubuntu selects.

On my machine, the only way I can run 10.04 reliably is to boot with the nomodeset kernel parameter (at the grub menu press e, scroll to the end of the line that says "quiet splash" and add nomodeset then ctrl+x to boot)

You might also check the forum sticky for known problems, and the version release notes about known issues.

One other thing that comes to mind with nvidea, which you've probably checked, is to make sure the proper drivers are enabled in System>>Administration>>Hardware Drivers.

And you could also try shutting off all visual effects in System>>Preferences>>Appearance>>Visual Effects, then enabling compositing in gconf by pressing Alt+F2, typing gconf-editor, scroll to apps>>metacity>>general and enable compositing_manager (compositing is needed by some apps now).

There are several different kernel boot parameters that people use - a search will probably turn up several options.

I'm making all these suggestions because continuously re-installing is not likely to solve your problem, but most likely there is a fairly simple fix available somewhere.

Maybe post the output of > sudo lspci so viewers can have a look at your hardware specifics.

I'd also be inclined to try an older version, ie 8.04, 9.04 or even 9.10 to see how the machine reacts. - The easiest way, if you've got access to a usb-flash drive and a windows machine is to use unetbootin - seems to be the most reliable way of getting a bootable usb-flash drive without wasting CDs.

Strike me down, for an LTS 10.04 has some unique quirks...

---

### Post by Blacksheep01 on 2010-09-11
Thank you for the reply. I had actually printed out everything you wrote and I logged out to start working on it, however, that was the last time I would log out of that particular install. Ubuntu crashed on log out and would not reboot, it would just stick on a black screen. No Grub loader, no DOS (terminal) cursor, nothing. I rebooted multiple times and it would hang on a solid black screen.

So, it led to a reformat. First I tried to install Windows 7 with the intent of dual booting, however, Win7 would not even install on either of the two partitions, instead going to a blue screen of death after a few steps. Fortunately I had burned a copy of 10.04 64 bit the prior day (the install on this computer was the 32 bit version before) so I popped in the 64bit version of Ubuntu and it brought up the install options and disk utility. I merged all partitions into one, just trying to see if anything would work and it installed, so I ended up with a fresh install anyway.

Here is the interesting thing, besides the all in one printer scanner not working in this 64 bit version, there has not been a single glitch that the 32 bit version had yet. In fact it is running faster than the 32 bit version and much smoother overall.

I will be watching to see if any GUI/other crash issues arise and if so, I will try these steps. It's odd that 64bit Ubuntu works so well on this machine and 32 bit was a neverending crash fest. Very odd.

---

### Post by theozzlives on 2010-09-11
I would tend to look at the hardware simply because your getting a BSOD in Windows AND Ubuntu is crashing. If it were driver problems, one OS would work for you. "7" uses 3D effects pretty heavily so it could be your GPU. It could also be RAM, it's hard for me to tell without actually being there, but both is unlikely. It's also unlikely that there is any physical damage to your other HD.

---

### Post by Blacksheep01 on 2010-09-12
> **theozzlives said:**
> I would tend to look at the hardware simply because your getting a BSOD in Windows AND Ubuntu is crashing. If it were driver problems, one OS would work for you. "7" uses 3D effects pretty heavily so it could be your GPU. It could also be RAM, it's hard for me to tell without actually being there, but both is unlikely. It's also unlikely that there is any physical damage to your other HD.

There is a chance it's the RAM, the graphics card was replaced a year ago (although it could be screwed up again) but the other stick of RAM from this set was full of errors on memtest, this stick was fine. Considering half of it was faulty, maybe the other half is dying now.

---

### Post by Blacksheep01 on 2010-09-22
I figured it out, it was not the RAM (I changed it and double checked both sticks with memtest, no errors on either), nor do I think it was an issue between 32 bit Ubuntu and 64bit or the quality of my ISO rips or any other such thing.

When I re-installed Ubuntu after the last epic crash, I purposely did not enable the 2D/3D Nvidia graphics card drivers that the internal Ubuntu hardware manager wants to install. I just left them off. The computer operated flawlessly for over a week, not one glitch or crash.

When I re-enabled them while playing with video performance, the GUI failed to load on 2 consecutive startups. Then, when it finally did load, the GUI randomly vanished and everything froze while browsing the internet. I disabled them and restarted and have made it several more days or maybe a week without a single crash again.

So, the GeForce 8400GS does not like the Ubuntu recommended (or even the other not recommended) 3D video drivers. They caused endless crashing in both 32 bit and 64 bit versions. Maybe this card is to old or maybe it's just that specific model, but it does not get along with those drivers. Thankfully my parents aren't doing and gaming or 3D intensive things, so leaving it off has worked fine.

---

