---
title: "9.04 Back-up and file permissions issue"
date: 2009-06-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tmo79 on 2009-06-06
I used the following to Backup my system Ubuntu 9.04

cd / 
sudo tar cvpzf backup.tgz --exclude=/etc/fstab --exclude=/boot --exclude=/proc --exclude=/lost+found --exclude=/backup.tgz --exclude=/mnt --exclude=/sys /

It created a backup.tgz in the file system folder, durring the backup my HDD ran out of space. At the end of that I tried to Cut and Paste the file on an enternal HDD, but because it was created i nthe file system folder I am unable to edit the file (read/write) I read a post advising to use the command "gksudo nautilus" when I did that I was able to"move to trash" I moved it to trash but the 40GB did not free up on the system, nor was I able to access the Trash folder. How can I find the file now? and how can II delete it or Move it?

Is there a way to redirect the comand above to backup straight to an external HDD?

Any advice? I am a Ubuntu noob :razz:  Thanks

---

### Post by sigixv on 2009-06-06
```
sudo nautilus
```take a look in your home folder, press Ctrl+H to view the hidden files
go to  ~/.local/share/Trash

in one of the maps visible there should be your files

---

### Post by tmo79 on 2009-06-08
Thanks, It turned out to be in the root's trash : ( fun stuff.  I am liking Ubuntu, this is my first attempt at it comming for a windows environment.  Anyone have any idea how to redirect that backup comand to an enternal HD ?

---

### Post by garg on 2009-06-08
> **tmo79 said:**
> Thanks, It turned out to be in the root's trash : ( fun stuff.  I am liking Ubuntu, this is my first attempt at it comming for a windows environment.  Anyone have any idea how to redirect that backup comand to an enternal HD ?

If you mount an external HD then it will go into /media/usbdrive (or something like that). Then you can change your command to say

sudo tar cvpzf **/media/usbdrive/orwhatever/**backup.tgz --exclude=/etc/fstab --exclude=/boot --exclude=/proc --exclude=/lost+found --exclude=/backup.tgz --exclude=/mnt --exclude=/sys /

---

### Post by tmo79 on 2009-06-08
> **garg said:**
> If you mount an external HD then it will go into /media/usbdrive (or something like that). Then you can change your command to say

sudo tar cvpzf **/media/usbdrive/orwhatever/**backup.tgz --exclude=/etc/fstab --exclude=/boot --exclude=/proc --exclude=/lost+found --exclude=/backup.tgz --exclude=/mnt --exclude=/sys /


Thanks !  120.0 GB Media is what my system called it. I appreaciate it.

sudo tar cvpzf **/120.0 GB Media/**backup.tgz --exclude=/etc/fstab --exclude=/boot --exclude=/proc --exclude=/lost+found --exclude=/backup.tgz --exclude=/mnt --exclude=/sys

---

### Post by tmo79 on 2009-06-10
errr that did not work, it seems to still want to create the item in the File System folder

---

### Post by Person_1873 on 2009-06-10
that's because you'd have to make it like this ```
 sudo tar cvpzf /media/120.0\ GB\ Media/backup.tgz --exclude=/etc/fstab --exclude=/boot --exclude=/proc --exclude=/lost+found --exclude=/media/120.0\ GB\ Media/backup.tgz --exclude=/mnt --exclude=/sys
```

the syntax you want is ```
tar <switches> <backup location> <options>
```

also, i doubt that the drive would be mounted as "120.0 GB Media" you should have a look in the /media folder first, i suspect that it's actually mounted as disk or disk-1 disk-2 etc.

---

### Post by tmo79 on 2009-06-11
It is actually called Disk.

so the code would be this ?

sudo tar cvpzf /media/disk\ Media/backup.tgz --exclude=/etc/fstab --exclude=/boot --exclude=/proc --exclude=/lost+found --exclude=/media/120.0\ GB\ Media/backup.tgz --exclude=/mnt --exclude=/sys

---

