---
title: "8.10 freezes on me+ other questions"
date: 2009-01-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 1984Tman on 2009-01-20
I just installed 8.10 on my laptop. This isn't the first time I installed Ubuntu on it (and probably the second time I installed 8.10). When I was updating and adding the software, I left to do something else, and came back to a frozen laptop. I turned the power off, and turned it back on. This time I stayed next to it, and it still froze! The next time I decided to do some stuff on the laptop like browse the web, and just move the mouse. It didn't freeze, so I took a break. When the update only needed 4 more seconds to be complete, it froze! I then just doing what I did last time, but just did some stuff throughout the whole process. It didn't freeze, and I just installed one application at a time in the add/remove program.

 What's the problem? I don't remember Ubuntu doing this before? All I did was update the software, and install software that I always use.

(I let my laptop alone while typing this and it still freezes! Hot keys are unresponsive. Two lights blink/lights up when it is froze, the caps lock and something that has two arrows pointing away from each other. The '1' light is fainter, so I assume the light is coming from the other lights)

Also, when Ubuntu loads up, I have 2 Ubuntu 8.10 Kernel options, and two recovery mode options. Finally, what is the 'memtest 86+' option? I never touch it, so I'm curious.

---

### Post by rsleventhal on 2009-01-20
Interesting stuff.  Interesting because I've been experiencing the exact same behavior

Running fine for any given length of time (freeze-ups don't seem to happen at any regular intervals)...during freeze-up, my Dell 9400 (E1705) allows me to move the mouse, but not to bring any window into focus.  I can't alt-tab either, so the only choice is to reboot. (Forcing X to close was my first choice, but the KB is ineffective when the system is like this).

To check that hardware wasn't the issue, I wiped my drive, ran a diagnostic and all was well, then I installed - gasp - that M$ product.  No issues here at all (As before when that particular OS was installed).  

I have installed RHEL5 (well, CentOS5.2) without issue as well..no freeze-up there (but I don't want to mess with all the additional tweaks needed under RHEL and clones for wireless, bluetooth, etc which all worked out of the box with Ubuntu).

The last time my sys froze, it was during an update and the pkg database got entirely hosed.  Had a choice of either removing 217 packages by hand or reinstalling....

Any ideas, thoughts or otherwise would be greatly appreciated.

Thanks in advance,
-Ray, A happy new convert to Ubuntu for the desktop/laptop

---

