---
title: "7.10 hanging after init scripts"
date: 2008-04-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mas99 on 2008-04-04
I'm running 7.10 on a Fujitsu Siemens laptop.  Everything has been fine for ages, until this morning.

Last night I updated the various patches and shut down and went to bed.

This morning I turn on got a hang at what looks like the last script in rc2.d

login at the tty and find that my root partition (has pretty much everything on it - I know, I know:)) was only mounted read only.

Cant see any errors in the dmesg. so fsck -f - no errors and then mount -o rw,remount - seems fine

I can run startx - as root but then it wont let me alter anything.
I can run gdm but dont get further than the login screen - seems to hang as soon as I try to login.

GO back to a tty and try to shutdown.   It hangs again at what seems to be the last init script

I've done a search and there was an issue with the layout of the event.d/tty files - mine look OK.
I do not have an etc/inittab

So can anyone tell me what happens in the init process after the rcX.d scripts are run?  because it looks as if whatever that next step is, is failing - without giving an error.  I know the whole init process changed some time ago and I'm not really familiar with whatever the new system is. 
Is there a decent bit of documentation anywhere that goes through the process and files?  I looked but couldnt see anything.
I've tried reconfiguring xorg but no change.

Anyonr think it might be worth upgrading to 8.04?  Will that refresh thje whole system?

thanks

:confused:

---

### Post by banewman on 2008-04-04
What is the script at the point where it hangs? rc.local?
The scripts are in the file /etc/init.d and linked to the runlevel they have to run in. 
e.g. rc2.d - which is the default runlevel for a user in ubuntu.

---

