---
title: "12.04 when waking after screen blanked, windows headers missing."
date: 2012-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2012-04-29
I am running 12.04-desktop-amd64 on an HP G72.  I have Unity running, though I did install CCSM and set up spinning cube.  This causes the screen to falsh every time I rotate, but that is not my beef at the moment.

If I allow the machine to idle long enough for the screen to go blank (default settings; it is what, 5, ten minutes?), when I move the mouse to resume, there are no window headers (the part with the title of the window, close, minimize, maximize buttons).  I cannot grab the window and move it, I cannot adjust the window.

Anyone aware of this?



On a side note, there is something that breaks the automounter (for USB drives), but I have not determined what the trigger is.

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2012-04-30
I forgot to mention that this happens when running a small prgram called Express Schematics under Wine 1.5.2

Even with the system set to never blank the screen, this problem crops up on occasion.  I can fix it by hitting Alt-F2 and entering unity --replace.

What is more annoying, and i wish I could find the trigger, is the failure of the USB automount, because then I have to reboot the machine so I can access the USB drive.

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2012-04-30
Hrm... maybe [this bug report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/992023) is related to my USB drive issue...

---

### Post by Dngrsone on 2012-05-02
[This bug report](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/wine1.4/+bug/993265) for the window headers... it's a wine issue, looks like.

---

