---
title: "10.04 &amp; fsck"
date: 2011-10-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2011-10-13
Hi all,
Has Ubuntu changed the notifications that the OS gives during boot up when the disk is checked by fsck???  

I believe I have run across this issue several times.  I have found that the first Ubuntu screen with (4 or 5 dots) below the name tend to run for several minutes with NO notification.  What happened to giving SOME message.  If you close down the system before this fsck finished it will destroy your GRUB.  At least I believe it screwed up mine. Very upsetting
Any thoughts?
M

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-10-13
Last I checked, 10.04 said that it was checking the disk on the splash screen. There shouldn't be any reason grub gets messed up unless the file system was corrupted.

Any error messages?

---

### Post by oaxacamatt1 on 2011-10-13
Well as ususal I did not save the first instance of logs wrt the grub issue and there is nothing in the 'boot' and 'boot.log' but I found something interesting in the 'bootstrap.log'
It maybe nothing but thought I would mention it...
---Bootstrap.log---
Warning: Fake initctl called, doing nothing

Setting up dhcp3-common (3.1.3-2ubuntu3) ...
Setting up apt-utils (0.7.25.3ubuntu7) ...

Setting up make (3.81-7ubuntu1) ...
Setting up rsyslog (4.2.0-2ubuntu8) ...

Creating config file /etc/rsyslog.d/50-default.conf with new version

Warning: Fake initctl called, doing nothing

Setting up ca-certificates (20090814) ...
Updating certificates in /etc/ssl/certs... WARNING: Skipping duplicate certificate brasil.gov.br.pem
141 added, 0 removed; done.
Running hooks in /etc/ca-certificates/update.d....done.

Cheers,
M

---

### Post by CharlesA on 2011-10-13
Not quite sure what the log is supposed to say.

Have you run fsck from a livecd?

---

