---
title: "Need help: dependencies problems"
date: 2006-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nmcuong on 2006-04-22
Hi everybody! I am a new user of Ubuntu Breezy Bagdger 5.10. I am not quite well at using Linux. Recently I am trying to install Skype in my machine, but it said there were dependencies problem and I have to install libqt3-mt or libqt3c102-mt. I did not know how to install these packages. Could you please help me with that? Many thanks.

---

### Post by apsalyers on 2006-04-22
[QUOTE=nmcuong]Hi everybody! I am a new user of Ubuntu Breezy Bagdger 5.10. I am not quite well at using Linux. Recently I am trying to install Skype in my machine, but it said there were dependencies problem and I have to install libqt3-mt or libqt3c102-mt. I did not know how to install these packages. Could you please help me with that? Many thanks.[/QUOTE]

From the command line, try doing:

sudo apt-get install XXXXX

XXXXX = the names of the packages generated by the error message.

---

### Post by trent dillman on 2006-04-22
That problem plagued me in Breezy as well. Automatix should do the trick!

---

### Post by nmcuong on 2006-04-22
Thank you trent dillman for the advice. Another question: what is automatix and how to run it? Thanks

---

### Post by nmcuong on 2006-04-24
[QUOTE=apsalyers]From the command line, try doing:

sudo apt-get install XXXXX

XXXXX = the names of the packages generated by the error message.[/QUOTE]

Thank you for the help. However, when I try to install the package, the following appeared:

Package libqt3-mt is not available, but is referred to by another package.
This may mean that the package is missing, has been obsoleted, or
is only available from another source
E: Package libqt3-mt has no installation candidate

So, where can I find the package. Thank you.

---

