---
title: "9.10 Persistent Problems"
date: 2010-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pathfindermwd on 2010-05-01
Hello everyone.  I am hoping someone can point me in the right direction either for a appropriate forum or for help with my usb persistent concern.  
I have been using the 8 gig sandisk usb for about 6 months.  Recently I began seeing pixel errors on the desktop.  After a minute, the whole os would just crash.  I am aware that  usb's can develop bad sectors of memory, and when I run Check this usb, it returns with 1 file corrupted.  

More recently, my laptop, a HP DV6000 stopped working, it is about 3-4 years old.  I thought it was a hard drive failure, but after just a few boots, even the usb would not boot, which I thought was because the USB had been having problems too.  So, a friend lent me his new emachine mini laptop.  I tried my usb and it works perfectly fine, (using it now).  Could there be a reason that it began malfunctioning in my laptop, and then my laptop soon after stopped working all together?  Or, is the usb working because it's malfunction was because of associations with a particular computer architecture?:confused:

---

### Post by todak on 2010-05-01
I do not think that the USB drive caused the malfunction in your laptop. I think it is the other way around. In other words, your laptop took a dump. Have you tried booting with an OS on the laptop hard drive?

---

### Post by pathfindermwd on 2010-05-01
The laptop does not give me any screen at startup.  I have tried a bootable ubuntu CD, my Ubuntu USB, and a friends Ubuntu USB.  What should I do about the corrupted file?

---

### Post by todak on 2010-05-02
If you do not have a backup of the corrupted file, you are out of luck. :( There is no utility to "uncorrupt" as there is for "undelete". :)

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-05-02
Do you know that you need the corrupted file?  It could be a temporary file that was going to get deleted anyway, but got corrupted instead.

For your laptop, insert the live cd, and do a memory test.
Also if you feel bold, open it up and dust it out with some air...Things can sometimes get inside and cause problems.

---

