---
title: "[13.10] IO read/write issues on root partition but SMART ok"
date: 2013-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by clement.bramy on 2013-11-20
Hi everyone,

I have been struggling for few days with this issue without finding a solution, so finally decided to post something there.

I have an ASUS ux32vd netbook with only Ubuntu (not dual boot or anything like that), it has been working fine for months, but lately I had issues with it.

**Computer details:**
ASUS ux32vd
10GB of RAM (2GB being used for tmp)
Ubuntu Saucy Salamender (updated last week)
Linux ux32vd 3.11.0-13-generic #20-Ubuntu SMP Wed Oct 23 07:38:26 UTC 2013 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux

**Symptoms:**
[LIST]
[*]Boot is taking ages (minutes - while on SSD usually take 2-3 seconds) 
[*]While booting a black screen appears with log messages (found out it is the dmesg - [ATTACH=CONFIG]247968[/ATTACH]) 
[*]Unable to open "System settings" or the "Network Connections" (and certainly some others I have found yet) 
[*]Missing indicators in the top right Ubuntu toolbar (see screenshot: [ATTACH=CONFIG]247964[/ATTACH]) - at least the network one (and clock but I have seen it may be related to another problem with 13.10) 
[*]Unable to connect to wifi (possibly also wired, could not try) 
[/LIST]

**Analysis:**
First of all, I am not an expert at all, so please let me know if you need any more information and how to get it, I tried to get as far as I could with the analysis myself before posting here, and will appreciate any advice in this matter.

During the boot, I have seen messages which I search on internet, and seems to be related to IO errors on my /dev/sdb (which is my SSD hard drive on which Ubuntu is installed), figured out that it is the output of dmesg (I have attached two of them to this thread after few reboots interval for reference: [ATTACH=CONFIG]247968[/ATTACH]).

Here are some information about my SSD drive and partition that I could gather from various commands:
> 
proc            /proc           proc    nodev,noexec,nosuid 0       0
**/dev/mapper/vgssd-lv_ubuntu /               ext4    discard,noatime,nodiratime,errors=remount-ro 0       1**
UUID=aaa6fc91-7661-4e4f-b34a-639b5043addf /boot           ext2    defaults        0       2
UUID=236A-B0AD  /boot/efi       vfat    defaults        0       1
/dev/mapper/vghdd-lv_home /home           reiserfs defaults        0       2
/dev/mapper/vghdd-lv_opt /opt            ext4    discard,noatime,nodiratime,defaults        0       2
/dev/mapper/vghdd-lv_var /var            ext4    discard,noatime,nodiratime,defaults        0       2
/dev/mapper/vghdd-lv_swap none            swap    sw              0       0

# non system partitions
/dev/mapper/vghdd-lv_movies /mnt/movies    reiserfs    defaults    0    2
/dev/mapper/vghdd-lv_development    /mnt/development    reiserfs    defaults    0    2

# RAM partitions
tmpfs    /tmp    tmpfs    defaults,nosuid,size=2048M,mode=1777    0    0

  --- Volume group ---
  VG Name               vgssd
  System ID             
  Format                lvm2
  Metadata Areas        1
  Metadata Sequence No  4
  VG Access             read/write
  VG Status             resizable
  MAX LV                0
  Cur LV                1
  Open LV               1
  Max PV                0
  Cur PV                1
  Act PV                1
  VG Size               21.94 GiB
  PE Size               4.00 MiB
  Total PE              5616
  Alloc PE / Size       4096 / 16.00 GiB
  Free  PE / Size       1520 / 5.94 GiB
  VG UUID               2dGWfF-m09i-cmrU-0Lsp-991m-C3xR-v334zB

  --- Logical volume ---
  LV Path                /dev/vgssd/lv_ubuntu
  LV Name                lv_ubuntu
  VG Name                vgssd
  LV UUID                12DBIe-85Qr-uNoA-3igG-icLb-CbXf-I3De90
  LV Write Access        read/write
  LV Creation host, time , 
  LV Status              available
  # open                 1
  LV Size                16.00 GiB
  Current LE             4096
  Segments               1
  Allocation             inherit
  Read ahead sectors     auto
  - currently set to     256
  Block device           252:0

=== START OF INFORMATION SECTION ===
Device Model:     SanDisk SSD i100 24GB
Serial Number:    122400113030
LU WWN Device Id: 5 001b44 78b327d86
Firmware Version: 11.50.02
User Capacity:    24,015,495,168 bytes [24.0 GB]
Sector Size:      512 bytes logical/physical
Rotation Rate:    Solid State Device
Device is:        Not in smartctl database [for details use: -P showall]
ATA Version is:   ACS-2 T13/2015-D revision 3
SATA Version is:  SATA 3.0, 6.0 Gb/s (current: 6.0 Gb/s)
Local Time is:    Thu Nov 21 11:12:40 2013 EST
SMART support is: Available - device has SMART capability.
SMART support is: Enabled


I have been advised I should overtake tests to know about the health of my hard drive with smartctl which I have done.
Apparently, as far of my understanding, the disk looks fine and healthy, see below:
> 
=== START OF READ SMART DATA SECTION ===
Warning! SMART Self-Test Log Structure error: invalid SMART checksum.
SMART Self-test log structure revision number 1
Num  Test_Description    Status                  Remaining  LifeTime(hours)  LBA_of_first_error
# 1  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2296         -
# 2  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2291         -
# 3  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2290         -
# 4  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2289         -
# 5  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2289         -
# 6  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2287         -

smartctl 6.2 2013-04-20 r3812 [x86_64-linux-3.11.0-13-generic] (local build)
Copyright (C) 2002-13, Bruce Allen, Christian Franke, [www.smartmontools.org]("http://www.smartmontools.org")

=== START OF READ SMART DATA SECTION ===
SMART overall-health self-assessment test result: PASSED

smartctl 6.2 2013-04-20 r3812 [x86_64-linux-3.11.0-13-generic] (local build)
Copyright (C) 2002-13, Bruce Allen, Christian Franke, [www.smartmontools.org]("http://www.smartmontools.org")

=== START OF READ SMART DATA SECTION ===
Warning! SMART Self-Test Log Structure error: invalid SMART checksum.
SMART Self-test log structure revision number 1
Num  Test_Description    Status                  Remaining  LifeTime(hours)  LBA_of_first_error
# 1  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2297         -
# 2  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2296         -
# 3  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2291         -
# 4  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2290         -
# 5  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2289         -
# 6  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2289         -
# 7  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2287         -

smartctl 6.2 2013-04-20 r3812 [x86_64-linux-3.11.0-13-generic] (local build)
Copyright (C) 2002-13, Bruce Allen, Christian Franke, [www.smartmontools.org]("http://www.smartmontools.org")

=== START OF INFORMATION SECTION ===
Device Model:     SanDisk SSD i100 24GB
Serial Number:    122400113030
LU WWN Device Id: 5 001b44 78b327d86
Firmware Version: 11.50.02
User Capacity:    24,015,495,168 bytes [24.0 GB]
Sector Size:      512 bytes logical/physical
Rotation Rate:    Solid State Device
Device is:        Not in smartctl database [for details use: -P showall]
ATA Version is:   ACS-2 T13/2015-D revision 3
SATA Version is:  SATA 3.0, 6.0 Gb/s (current: 6.0 Gb/s)
Local Time is:    Thu Nov 21 11:54:51 2013 EST
SMART support is: Available - device has SMART capability.
SMART support is: Enabled

=== START OF READ SMART DATA SECTION ===
SMART overall-health self-assessment test result: PASSED

General SMART Values:
Offline data collection status:  (0x00)    Offline data collection activity
                    was never started.
                    Auto Offline Data Collection: Disabled.
Self-test execution status:      (   0)    The previous self-test routine completed
                    without error or no self-test has ever 
                    been run.
Total time to complete Offline 
data collection:         (  120) seconds.
Offline data collection
capabilities:              (0x11) SMART execute Offline immediate.
                    No Auto Offline data collection support.
                    Suspend Offline collection upon new
                    command.
                    No Offline surface scan supported.
                    Self-test supported.
                    No Conveyance Self-test supported.
                    No Selective Self-test supported.
SMART capabilities:            (0x0003)    Saves SMART data before entering
                    power-saving mode.
                    Supports SMART auto save timer.
Error logging capability:        (0x01)    Error logging supported.
                    General Purpose Logging supported.
Short self-test routine 
recommended polling time:      (   2) minutes.
Extended self-test routine
recommended polling time:      (   8) minutes.

SMART Attributes Data Structure revision number: 1
Vendor Specific SMART Attributes with Thresholds:
ID# ATTRIBUTE_NAME          FLAG     VALUE WORST THRESH TYPE      UPDATED  WHEN_FAILED RAW_VALUE
  5 Reallocated_Sector_Ct   0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       0
  9 Power_On_Hours          0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       2297
 12 Power_Cycle_Count       0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       1050
171 Unknown_Attribute       0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       0
172 Unknown_Attribute       0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       0
173 Unknown_Attribute       0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       6
174 Unknown_Attribute       0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       1019
187 Reported_Uncorrect      0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       0
230 Unknown_SSD_Attribute   0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       20
232 Available_Reservd_Space 0x0003   100   100   005    Pre-fail  Always       -       0
234 Unknown_Attribute       0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       22
241 Total_LBAs_Written      0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       279003660
242 Total_LBAs_Read         0x0002   100   100   000    Old_age   Always       -       417879397

SMART Error Log Version: 1
No Errors Logged

Warning! SMART Self-Test Log Structure error: invalid SMART checksum.
SMART Self-test log structure revision number 1
Num  Test_Description    Status                  Remaining  LifeTime(hours)  LBA_of_first_error
# 1  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2297         -
# 2  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2296         -
# 3  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2291         -
# 4  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2290         -
# 5  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2289         -
# 6  Short offline       Completed without error       00%      2289         -
# 7  Extended offline    Completed without error       00%      2287         -

Selective Self-tests/Logging not supported



I have also noticed that the number of sectors and their address varies from one restart to another (see [ATTACH=CONFIG]247968[/ATTACH] attached), so I am not sure how to interpret that kind of information, if the sectors was dead, it should fail all the time, and maybe add new one to the list, isn't it?

After some more research I found this article ([http://www.gasid.org.uk/2012/11/dealing-with-io-errors-linu/](http://www.gasid.org.uk/2012/11/dealing-with-io-errors-linu/)), even if I am not necessarily willing to try the sector re-write (unless an advanced user advise to do so), I picked up some interesting information and wrote a small shell script to read the sector spotted in the dmesg (see [ATTACH=CONFIG]247966[/ATTACH]), apparently one of the listed sector could not be read (1794864), I am not sure what to do with that as it comes into conflict with SMART's test result?

**Few more things I have found during my analysis:**
In dmesg there's apparently a possible reason why I do not have network:
> [  194.479611] init: network-manager main process (880) killed by BUS signal
[  194.479628] init: network-manager main process ended, respawning

But not sure how to fix that

When trying [this workaround]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2182038&p=12827503#post12827503") for the clock not being displayed I got the following error:
> Bus error
Looks like something's wrong with the "Bus", not sure what it is all about though


**Questions:**
So, after all of that, I still have no idea what to do to fix my issues, everything has been working for months without any problem (relatively speaking), the only thing I can recall to make related to the root partition lately has been to extends the partition as during the upgrade it was complaining to not have enough space, I have run the following two commands:
> 
sudo lvextend -L 16G /dev/vgssd/lv_ubuntu
sudo resize2fs -p /dev/vgssd/lv_ubuntu 16G


Which as far as I know worked well.

[LIST]
[*]Can anyone advise me what to do next to find the problem? 
[*]Does anyone already have this issue, and how to fix? 
[*]Can anyone confirm that the SSD drive looks fine or do I need to change it? 
[*]If I have to change the SSD drive, will I loose all my data in the /homes/** folders? What about /opt ? 
[/LIST]

---

### Post by clement.bramy on 2013-11-21
So, still trying to get this sorted out, I have done some more investigation, and have particularly been trying to restore the network manager.
I am able to start/stop network-manager using the command:
> sudo start network-manager

But when I try to run a command like > nm-applet
I will get the following message: **Bus error**

I tried to run nmcli and got the same error message.

I got the same error while trying to reactivate the clock indicator as well.

What does it mean?
Is it related to my hard drive or is it memory issue?

---

