---
title: "10.04 Glitches and boot/install problems."
date: 2010-07-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jinba.ittai on 2010-07-07
Ive been tooling around with a few different operating systems lately, and just reinstalled ubuntu 10.04 dual booted with win7. 

The first glitch i encounter is when installing (boot live cd) it says there was an unexpected error, then brings me into the trial mode with out letting me make any selections. So as it takes me straight to the ubuntu live cd desktop, i am able to install the OS but i also get this error report at the top right saying 

"gvfs-gdu-volume-monitor closed unexpectedly" 
When i try to report the error, i get another error ssaying the error report system doesnt support reporting this type of error (WTF?!?)


any ways, after i install ubuntu, i booted into it fine the first time. But the bottom left taskbar had a little glitch, showing a little white box next to the "show desktop" button. It happens every now and then but goes away, so i just ignore it.

Next problem. Sometimes the computer wont even boot into ubuntu, works fine when i select win7, always boots perfectly on first try, but sometimes i get a couple different errors. The last error i received while trying to boot into ubuntu was  

"gave up waiting for root device

ALERT! /dev/disk/by-uuid/fa370574-7adu-481e-.... (its a long number) does not exist"

Just restarted and it booted fine. 

One last problem. Things do not auto mount! Anytime i plug in a flash drive, or my 1tb mybook, or even a mem card reader, i have to go into disk utility and click mount on everything! Isnt it supposed to mount automatically and pop up on the desktop? 

My theory is the motherboard wants to crap out. Specs


Emachines t6412 mobo
AMD athlon 64 bit
1.3 gb of ram (might even be a ram problem? I have 2 512mb sticks, and one 256 mb ram stick. Havent had  a chance to upgrade the ram so i gathered all the ram of the right size and clock that i had laying around)
500wat psu
and my own case.


I would give you the specific mobo name if i was on windows (cpu id) but im on ubuntu typing this and dont feel like rebooting just to type it all over again. ill edit it later.


So any suggestions?

And what happened to being able to browse your windows partition with ubuntu? seems 10.04 doesnt have this ability?

Ps, this friday im going to get a new mobo and around 2 gigs of ram if i cant find a solution by then.

---

