---
title: "11.04 - Dependency problems in apt-get with new install"
date: 2012-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wjoe on 2012-04-25
I was having similar problems to this yesterday, and in the end decided to do a new install. Now I have a new install, I'm still having these problems.

Many packages are giving my dependency errors when trying to install, using apt-get, software centre, or synaptic.

For example, here's the output when trying to install VirtualBox:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:

virtualbox-ose-qt: Depends: libgcc1 (>= 1:4.1.1) but 1:4.5.2-8ubuntu4 is to be installed
                   Depends: libqt4-network (>= 4:4.5.3) but 4:4.7.2-0ubuntu6 is to be installed
                   Depends: libqt4-opengl (>= 4:4.7.0~rc1) but 4:4.7.2-0ubuntu6 is to be installed
                   Depends: libqtcore4 (>= 4:4.7.0~beta1) but 4:4.7.2-0ubuntu6.3 is to be installed
                   Depends: libqtgui4 (>= 4:4.7.0~beta1) but 4:4.7.2-0ubuntu6.3 is to be installed
                   Depends: libstdc++6 (>= 4.5) but 4.5.2-8ubuntu4 is to be installed
                   Depends: virtualbox-ose (= 4.0.4-dfsg-1ubuntu4) but 4.0.4-dfsg-1ubuntu4 is to be installed

Similarly with OpenJDK:

The following packages have unmet dependencies.
 openjdk-6-jdk : Depends: openjdk-6-jre (>= 6b22-1.10.1-0ubuntu1) but it is not going to be installed

I can provide more examples, but they're all pretty similar to that - it's failing on a dependency error, but it actually has newer/the same versions installed already.

I've tried various things like update/upgrade, the 'Fix broken packages' option in synaptic. I also tried uninstalling/downgrading packages to try and fix it yesterday but that just made things worse. I'm clueless, as is everyone else I've asked, and I can't find anything helpful from googling. Any help would be appreciated. It's a new install of 11.04 on AMD64, let me know if any more info is needed.

---

### Post by techsupport on 2012-04-25
> **wjoe said:**
> I was having similar problems to this yesterday, and in the end decided to do a new install. Now I have a new install, I'm still having these problems.
.

Easiest way to solve this would be to go step by step with a fresh installation guide:

[http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/07/05/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/](http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2011/07/05/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-11-04-aka-natty-narwhal/)

It includes the commands to install Java and Virtualbox from the PPA as well. Works great too! :)

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2012-04-25
Is there anything preventing you from upgrading to 11.10?  Also, and this is just if I were you, I would not do a fresh install now.  Precise comes out tomorrow.  Given, it will have bugs, and the update servers will be slammed by thousands of people, but really you should stick to the LTSs.

---

### Post by techsupport on 2012-04-25
> **corrytonapple said:**
> Is there anything preventing you from upgrading to 11.10?  Also, and this is just if I were you, I would not do a fresh install now.  Precise comes out tomorrow.  Given, it will have bugs, and the update servers will be slammed by thousands of people, but really you should stick to the LTSs.

I would actually say at this point you could just install 12.04 LTS Beta 2 today. 

It will upgrade tomarrow. 

And use this guide to get everything just right for now:

[http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2012/03/09/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-12-04-lts-aka-precise-pangolin/](http://debianhelp.wordpress.com/2012/03/09/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-12-04-lts-aka-precise-pangolin/)

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2012-04-25
But then he'll be using bandwidth to update tomorrow.  So in the end he is using more bandwidth getting it today.  Waiting a mere few hours now ( :D )  will mean using less bandwidth.

Do you know by chance if that fallback environment is GNOME 2 or if it is based on Unity?  Its nice.

---

### Post by techsupport on 2012-04-25
> **corrytonapple said:**
> But then he'll be using bandwidth to update tomorrow.  So in the end he is using more bandwidth getting it today.  Waiting a mere few hours now ( :D )  will mean using less bandwidth.

Do you know by chance if that fallback environment is GNOME 2 or if it is based on Unity?  Its nice.

No, it doesn't work like that. It is more like a rolling release at this point tomorrow if you already have Beta 2 installed. 

Don't worry about bandwidth. That isn't really a big deal.

PS

I'm using Fallback Sesson right now. And it is awesome. This is what I wanted in 11.04. If you are a fan of the old Gnome 2 DE, this is better. The gnome-tweak-tool themes perfectly. I have my clearlooks back.

---

### Post by Robvdl on 2012-06-21
We had the same issue at work, only thing is that this machine had to stay 11.04 for the time being, so I had to resolve the issue.

Basically what I found is that the repositories have provided a lot of updates to library packages (qt4 is one one them), however they have not provided package updates to the matching -dev packages.

So, if you already had these libraries installed and fully updated, next minute you want to install the -dev packages, it can't because of the dependency listings in the -dev packages it expects the original library package before the update.

I managed to solve it using synaptic package manager, sitting there, downgrading some of these library packages to their original versions, then I was able to install the matching -dev packages fine.

I don't think this should have happened, either the dependency requirements in the .deb packages are too strict, but really Ubuntu should have provided an update to the library and matching -dev package at the same time to avoid this problem in the first place.

---

