---
title: "Ubuntu newbie having trouble"
date: 2015-05-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Gustavo_Pacheco on 2015-05-06
Hello guys, so this is being my first time trying to install a Linux distro in my PC ever. I have used Linux already but that was some years ago and it was a really ugly distro made for schools, so i thought that Linux was junk and just got stuck to Windows. But some few days ago, i found out about Ubuntu, and decided i would give it a try.
 So, since my computer DVD port won't open, i decided to use USB. My first try was using Universal USB installer. The process was fairly quickly in this old 2006 PC and i thought i would just plug it in, choose USB-HDD as boot and everything would work fine. But unfortunately, i got an error saying that something called syslinux was missing, so i just restarted the computer, booted onto Windows XP and did some research. I used WinMD5Sum on my .ISO and it was ok. I tried renaming isolinux, isolinux.bin and isolinux.cfg to syslinux, syslinux.bin and syslinux.cfg. But still no luck. So i thought my computer just wouldn't boot from FAT32, and since it was not formatting things properly, i used my cousin's Windows 8.1 machine, but i soon found out i couldn't formatt in FAT16, because the pen-drive is 8gb. So i formatted it in NTFS because someone said it worked. I then did the process again with Universal USB Installer, but now, instead of giving me the syslinux error, it just booted straight to Windows, even if i choose USB-HDD. So then i tried UnetBootIn and same problem. As i type this in, i'm doing the process one more time in fat32 now using Universal USB Installer, because at least that gave me some sign of life. So please, anyone that has some experience with Ubuntu, help me. I have to quickly get rid of the Windows XP in this machine because it's so full of crap, it's even scary to use.

Thanks, 
Gustavo Pacheco.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2015-05-06
It would be useful to know what specs the machine has, but being from 2006, I suspect it will not be possible to run Ubuntu with unity successfully on it.

I would recommend that you have a look at either Xubuntu or Lubuntu, but if you want to get more suggestions tell us what the machine specs are, particularly the CPU, amount of RAM and any graphic card it has.

---

### Post by mattharris4 on 2015-05-07
My desktop is from 2007 (with a Pentium 4 3.0GHz CPU) and with just adding RAM (from 2GB to 3.5 GB) it still runs Edubuntu just fine.  Edubuntu is just Ubuntu with a couple of GNOME options for the GUI and a bunch of programs meant for educators.  It ran fine for a few months on the 2GB of RAM until a perfect storm of Canonical, Mozilla (Firefox) and several website admins changing code so more RAM was required to log onto some websites (SFGate.com being the worst offender).  I quickly found out that swap is useless on a Canonical OS as it slows the computer to an alcohol-induced crawl (any drinker worth his drink knows what that feels like :).  After adding the RAM I was fine again.  If the OP's computer was a low-line piece of outdated crap when it was purchased (I purchased a couple of these -- eMachines desktops in early 2005 with a Pentium D CPU and 256MB of RAM new for about $450 with monitor and printer which was cheap in early 2005, I got about four years out of them before they became useless) it may not be able to run anything stronger than Puppy Linux.  However if he spent the extra $200 and bought a reasonably up to date computer in 2006 it might just run Lubuntu with a simple RAM upgrade/addition.  Even my out of date when manufactured Pentium D computers could be upgraded to 2GB of RAM, you only need about 1.3GB to do almost anything in Lubuntu and many sites will load and run on 800MB.  With Lubuntu the OP could also use Midori for reading many websites (some special features won't work, it is awkward to sift through pictures on websites with it and many videos won't play but for reading it is fine) and run Libre Office on 512MB of RAM (although probably not at the same time) which many computers came with even in 2005 when I bought my outdated Pentium D computers.

As for your DVD drive, there is likely a solution for that.  In each DVD drive there is a little hole just large enough to stick the end of a paper clip in.  Defragment your hard drive using Windows XP.  This is very important.  Connect both computers (the Win XP computer you wish to install Lubuntu on and the computer you use to make the Lubuntu 14.04 LTS 32-bit DVD) to the internet.  Make a Lubuntu 14.04 LTS 32 bit DVD in another computer, then go into the BIOS in the Win XP computer and select the DVD drive as the first drive to boot.  Then open your DVD drive in the Win XP computer using the end of a paper clip.  Insert the DVD, close the tray.  The computer should boot up (assuming you have a DVD drive and not a CD only drive).  A screen will come up asking whether you wish to test or install Ubuntu (or Lubuntu in this case).  Select install, then select dual-boot with other OS (in this case Win XP).  Then a partition screen will come up allowing you to select how much of your hard drive you wish to allocate for Lubuntu.  Allocate as much as you can spare, it will tell you how much you can do -- but leave 10GB empty for the Win XP installation.  You need at least 20GB for Lubuntu.  If you cannot do this due to the size of your hard drive, think carefully whether you can chance wiping Win XP from your computer.  There is an option to do this where I suggested selecting a dual-boot install but do not do this without Win XP backup disks and code just in case you need to reinstall it to do something.  You would create the backup disks on DVDs, opening and closing the drive with a paper clip since the motor to do this has died.  Then follow the instructions for installing Lubuntu above except select to format the whole drive and install the OS alone.  Then let the computer install the OS.  It will use the internet connection to download important files, this is critical.  Also, select non-free file installation, this is also critical.  Once finished, remove the DVD from the drive opening the drive with the paper clip if still necessary.  Reboot the computer (entering the BIOS again is not necessary), select "Ubuntu" from the list and press enter if you dual-booted, let the OS load (it is much faster to load than Win XP), then install Pepper Flash from the Lubuntu repository, check for sound, if no sound configure alsamixer (here is the instructions, read step 2):  [http://www.unixmen.com/2012003-howto-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu/](http://www.unixmen.com/2012003-howto-resolve-nosound-problem-on-ubuntu/) .  Then configure as you need to, Google, the Ubuntu Forums (here) and the main Ubuntu site are your friends (98% of instructions for Ubuntu will work in Lubuntu).  Good luck and I hope this helps.

---

