---
title: "11.10 x64 User: Please help, various problems with 2 week old install..."
date: 2011-11-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by meaninglessusernames on 2011-11-07
Hi there. I have been using 11.04 on my Acer X3950 for 6 months, with no problems whatsoever. I decided to upgrade to 11.10 x64 recently, and all has been fine... right up until 2 days back. 

Here is how I have my partitions laid out:

/ = 20Gb partition
/home = 111Gb partition
/swap = 6Gb partition

To upgrade, I wiped "/" and left "/home" exactly as is it, and installed 11.10 on "/". Since two days ago, "Image Viewer" has stopped launching, and now "guvcview" (webcam viewer) won't launch either. This is a bit more than a *slight* inconvenience to me.

Are there any .foldername (hidden folders) or .filename (hidden files) in ~/ that I should delete? Any caches I should clear, or anything I can run in bash, to see what is causing this? Fwiw, this happens in Guest and temporary test accounts, also.


Thank you! :)

---

### Post by volkerbradley on 2011-11-07
For what it is worth, I attempted to do a fresh install of 11.10.  After three days of work, I finally gave up.  Never could get back all the nifty features I had in 11.04.
Then reinstalled the image of 11.04 and just upgraded it without making any changes to the partitions.  Except for a few Shell extensions, every works.  
Feel like trying to install your 11.04 image again and upgrading?

---

### Post by meaninglessusernames on 2011-11-07
> **volkerbradley said:**
> For what it is worth, I attempted to do a fresh install of 11.10.  After three days of work, I finally gave up.  Never could get back all the nifty features I had in 11.04.
Then reinstalled the image of 11.04 and just upgraded it without making any changes to the partitions.  Except for a few Shell extensions, every works.  
Feel like trying to install your 11.04 image again and upgrading?

Wow! I never thought of that. Thanks, I think I'll give it a bash, if no other ideas surface on this thread. Thanks! :)

---

### Post by meaninglessusernames on 2011-11-08
I can't believe *noone* else has a proper suggestion, after 24 hours.

---

