---
title: "11.04 Alt. Disc"
date: 2011-07-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Pard68 on 2011-07-07
So I installed 11.04 on one of my machines with the alternative disc. I decided to make this machine into a bare-bones speed demon. It was my hope that I'd end up with a non-GUI version of Ubuntu. No such luck. So I have two questions:

1.) How can I manually edit the OS to remove all the GUI things (I mean everything like xorg. Unity. GDM. ect..)

2.) Would you recommend a different distro. to run? My fear is I'll stick something else on it and it won't be easy to interface with my other machines (all of which run some version of Ubuntu). 

I'd prefer the first question since I like Ubuntu and am pretty familiar/comfortable with it.

---

### Post by WorMzy on 2011-07-07
If you want a GUI-less Ubuntu, go for the server edition, or minimal. Working backwards towards a minimal install can be tedious and time consuming, and personally, I don't see the point.

---

### Post by fukngroovn on 2011-07-07
If I where you I would just look for a different, more stripped down distro. You might want to take a look at Damn Small Linux.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-07-07
Alternate install disk installs the identical system to the "regular" Live CD, sorry!

If you want a good guide to minimal Ubuntu, read here: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/minimal](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/minimal)

What are your hardware specs?

---

### Post by Pard68 on 2011-07-07
Thanks. Guess I'll do a reinstall. that's probably the easiest.

Not sure what the specs are on the machine. It is certified to run XP. It's one of those Compaq PCs a company would buy in bulk. Got it for free.

---

