---
title: "10.04 Intermittent crashing - screen goes black, unresponsive"
date: 2012-01-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TheBigH on 2012-01-10
Hi everyone,

I am running Ubuntu 10.04 and, ever since the last update from a few days ago, I have been experiencing periodic severe crashes. The screen goes completely black and, when I press the menu button on the monitor itself, it says it is not receiving a signal from the computer. It doesn't respond to the mouse or keyboard and I have to hold the power button down for a long time to shut it off.

Has anyone else had this kind of problem? How can I fix it?

Here is a summary of my system:

-Computer-
Processor        : 4x Intel(R) Core(TM) i5 CPU         660  @ 3.33GHz
Memory        : 3987MB (471MB used)
Operating System        : Ubuntu 10.04.3 LTS
User Name        : Prefer to keep that to myself
Date/Time        : Wed 11 Jan 2012 12:40:45 EST
-Display-
Resolution        : 1920x1080 pixels
OpenGL Renderer        : Unknown
X11 Vendor        : The X.Org Foundation
-Multimedia-
Audio Adapter        : HDA-Intel - HDA Intel
-Input Devices-
 Power Button
 Power Button
 Macintosh mouse button emulation
 DELL Dell QuietKey Keyboard
 USB Optical Mouse
 Dell WMI hotkeys
 HDA Digital PCBeep
-Printers (CUPS)-
-SCSI Disks-
ATA WDC WD2500AAJS-7
TSSTcorp DVD+-RW TS-L633C



Thanks


edit: I just tried the system diagnostic tool you get to by hitting F12 during bootup. Got about halfway through checking the full memory test and it crashed again.

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2012-01-10
Try making sure that the Memory is fully seated.

By the way, are you using an Apple Mouse? I am wondering because in the system information you provided, it says "Macintosh Mouse button emulation".

---

### Post by TheBigH on 2012-01-10
How do I test if the memory is fully seated? 

My mouse is a Dell mouse; I'm not sure why it's set to emulate an Apple one.


Thanks for the reply

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2012-01-10
> **TheBigH said:**
> How do I test if the memory is fully seated? 

My mouse is a Dell mouse; I'm not sure why it's set to emulate an Apple one.


Thanks for the reply
To see if the memory is fully seated, open the computer case and lightly press on the top edge of the memory modules. I f they appear to be fully seated, but the Computer is still crashing, try running Memtest86+.

---

### Post by TheBigH on 2012-01-12
It turned out to be a dud fan on the graphics card.

---

