---
title: "12.04 stuck on command line screen"
date: 2014-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mmiller2 on 2014-05-04
I am running Xubuntu 12.04. Whenever I power the system up, it remains on a command line screen with a blinking cursor. Before, this was happening when first powering up the system, but restarting it afterwards seemed to solve the problem. Now, that does not solve the problem. It was working well for a while before this started happening. Could it be hardware related? I have already replaced the hard drive, but this did not solve the problem. Could it be related to how I installed updates? Could it be a glitch with Xubuntu itself? Thanks.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-05-04
What does command **startx** give you?  If that does not help try **sudo service lightdm start** or **sudo service lightdm restart** and report any errors you get back here.

---

### Post by mmiller2 on 2014-05-04
Thank you for your quick response. Commands actually cannot be typed on the screen. It is a blinking cursor, but that is all.

---

### Post by llamabr on 2014-05-04
When you very first turn it on, and when grub loads, you should see a number of different kernel choices.  Choose a different one, and see if it boots from there.

---

### Post by mmiller2 on 2014-05-04
Thank you for your response. I don't think grub loads, though. When I first turn it on, there is the splash screen for the boot menu, and then the blinking cursor. From there, it is Xubuntu, whenever it does not stay on the screen with the cursor. I overwrote the entire system.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2014-05-05
Is this new installation or one that has been working fine and now suddenly will not boot?

---

### Post by mmiller2 on 2014-05-05
There seemed to be no problems until installing updates. Thanks!

---

