---
title: "question about a specific mime type"
date: 2010-12-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by phishsauce on 2010-12-18
Hi, 

I have recently switched to the linux world. I am primarily a web developer, and I am working at getting gedit up to speed for working on websites.

Drupal sites as you know have .module files that they use store code (I think .module.php would've been a better choice but anyway).

What I did was I added .module and .inc to the /usr/share/mime/packages/freedesktop.org.xml to the glob patterns under the php type. When I did this .inc files began showing up properly in gedit with php source code highlighting, however .module did not.

After quite a bit of googling and trying various things, i started to take a particular notice to the fact that for some reason gedit seems to think .module files are binary and in nautilus they show up as being "application/x-extension-module".

I tried to find some reference as to what this mime type is for and tried to find it in the /usr/share/mime directory however nothing presented itself to me as an explanation as to what it is OR how to override it.

The only place I have been able to find this definitions is in ~/.local/share/mime. The globs and globs2 files have references to it, applications has a file called x-extension-module.xml and packages has one called user-extension-module.xml. 

So my first question is does anyone know what application/x-extension-module is for? I think it might be something to do with the X system but I'm not sure. 

Second question would be, since all these files in ~/.local/share/mime has comments in them that say generated by update-mime-database, does anyone know where this stuff is coming from? Is there a way I can change it or override it?

Thanks for any suggestions.

I'm running ubuntu 10.10 if it makes any difference.

PS: I commented out / renamed all the files in the ~/.local directory so that as far as i can tell it is not define anymore and now gedit handles the file the way I want it too.

---

