---
title: "7.10 automount"
date: 2008-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wildteen88 on 2008-05-01
I had previously installed Ubuntu 7.10 which was working fine. So I decided to upgrade to 8.04 (fresh install) a few days ago, however I had a few issues after the upgrade so I downgraded back to 7.10.

With my previous installation of 7.10 Ubuntu would prompt for a password before  mounting a partition from the Places Menu. However since reinstalling 7.10 Ubuntu now automounts my partitions.

How do I stop Ubuntu from automounting my partitions? I want it to prompt for a password before mounting partitions.

Thank you for any help.

---

### Post by wildteen88 on 2008-05-02
Any sugggestions?

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2008-05-02
The installer might have added the partitions to /etc/fstab when you re-installed ubuntu. Either comment out the lines or use **noauto** options.

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-02
Post your /etc/fstab file for us to look at.

---

### Post by wildteen88 on 2008-05-02
> **kpkeerthi said:**
> The installer might have added the partitions to /etc/fstab when you re-installed ubuntu. Either comment out the lines or use **noauto** options.
I did try that but my partitions disappeared from the Places menu. So I undone the changes I had made

> **njparton said:**
> Post your /etc/fstab file for us to look at.
Ok here it is:
```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc    defaults        0       0
# /dev/sdb3
UUID=af1966c2-57e9-49ff-b9b0-a580ca88840c /               ext3    defaults,errors=remount-ro 0       1
# /dev/sda1
UUID=1C60605860603B22 /media/sda1     ntfs    defaults,umask=007,gid=46 0       1
# /dev/sdb1
UUID=A0022F3A022F14B6 /media/sdb1     ntfs    defaults,umask=007,gid=46 0       1
# /dev/sdb2
UUID=877090ba-139b-4073-8cdd-e17160524848 none            swap    sw              0       0
/dev/scd0       /media/cdrom0   udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec 0       0
```

sda1 is XP
sdb1 is Vista

Thanx.

---

### Post by erginemr on 2008-05-02
I guess it is related to the words "umask=007,gid=46", which AFAIK allows users to mount the file systems without asking any password. Try removing those and reboot, if everything returns to the way it was before.

EDIT: No joy, sorry. :( I have tried both "defaults" and "defaults, nouser", but neither one gave out the desired effect.

---

### Post by wildteen88 on 2008-05-02
Thanx for the suggestion but no luck :(.

I have tried the following options along with the results
**defaults**        - automounts upon login
**defaults,noauto** - drives does not show up in "places" menu and I get a "You are not privileged to mount this volume." error if I try to load the drive from 'computer:///'
**defaults,nouser** - automounts upon login

I am restarting ubuntu after each change.

---

### Post by njparton on 2008-05-02
I think (not 100% sure) that fstab may be a red herring here.
 
fstab is run by your system with root privileges during bootup. I think you need to remove the references to the necessary drives from fstab and find another way of mounting them on demand.
 
I think there's a program or command called automount or very similar (auto something) that will mount a partition on demand. I can't recall whether this is just for network drives though.
 
See what you can find with a bit of googling.

---

