---
title: "10.04 update no audio help please"
date: 2010-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pleeasee on 2010-05-23
after the latest update i lost my audio and it doesn't wok at all I have tried to fix it my step dad as well but we both cant i looked at the alsamixer and it says there is nothing wrong. please help

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-05-23
What did you update from? What is your audio hardware? (the terminal command lspci will probably tell you)

When you open volume control, you don't have anything muted?

What do you see in Preferences/Sound?

---

### Post by pleeasee on 2010-05-23
according to the command i have a nVidia Corporation MCP61 High Definition Audio (rev a2) 

how do i figure out what i updated from all i know is that i installed 10.04 then i updated then the audio kicked out.

nothing is muted at all i looked through everything.

in sound i see everything at max volume because i can't hear anything from it. it has a hardware device and in output it has " internal audio analog stereo stereo" the connector is on analog headphones.

although with alsamixer the headphone channel is not there is says headphones but there is no bar above it.

Edit: i have audio after i went back a kernal it seem that the update had issues with my audio card.

---

### Post by gordintoronto on 2010-05-24
> **pleeasee said:**
> 
Edit: i have audio after i went back a kernal it seem that the update had issues with my audio card.

Terrific! Do you know the kernel versions?


You could also mark this thread as "solved" using the "thread tools."

---

### Post by pleeasee on 2010-05-25
i marked it as a bug but the kernal version is 
[B]2.6.32-22-Generic   for 10.04
[/B]

---

