---
title: "12.04 not booting only reaches the black screen"
date: 2013-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by djsiddz on 2013-05-10
I have Ubuntu 12.04 on dual-boot with my Win7 Home Basic.. I have updated it regularly.
It worked normally a few days back.. I haven't updated in a few days or made any changes.
When I try to boot it today, first I see a purple screen and then the black screen after a few seconds... and then nothing happens.

What should I do??

---

### Post by 2F4U on 2013-05-10
Can you post your hardware specs? Also, are you using proprietary video drivers (ATI, nVidia)? Can you get to a virtual console with Ctrl-Alt-F1 (2, 3, ...) and login to the machine?

---

### Post by djsiddz on 2013-05-10
I have a Core i3 4GB RAM 500GB HDD.. Yes i have proprietary video drivers (ATI Radeon). I'll try doing that first and let you know... Thanks for replying! :)

---

### Post by djsiddz on 2013-05-10
Nope, did not get access to the virtual console (Ctrl+Alt+F1(2,3,4,...)) tried all of them.... :(

---

### Post by djsiddz on 2013-05-10
I need to get it working... i read at other places regarding boot-repair (a GUI app that works on ubuntu)... [http://sourceforge.net/projects/boot-repair-cd/files/](http://sourceforge.net/projects/boot-repair-cd/files/) i'll give that a try tonight (after it finishes downloading...:()

Any tips on that also welcome..... ;)

Doing a fresh install of 12.04 is the last option i am looking for... before it, I'll try all that is possible..

---

### Post by djsiddz on 2013-05-12
Okay... I finally got it working!! While i didn't get to make use of the boot repair disk, i got it working using the recovery mode of ubuntu.
I pressed the shift key while booting ubuntu to get into the recovery mode. i got it working from there. 

After restarting the system, i made a few updates using the 'update manager'.. when i made it check for more updates, it asked me to do a 'partial upgrade' (distribution upgrade)... this was the first encounter with a 'partial upgrade' for me.. i did that too, realizing afterwards when i searched for more info on partial upgrade, i should not have done it.. But anyways, All is working good now.:cool:\\:D/

Thanks!

---

### Post by nishanthc-1993 on 2014-04-21
Hey,
I've been having the exact same problem. I've been able to reach Recovery mode though. Can you tell me how exactly you fixed it using recovery mode?

Thanks!

---

### Post by djsiddz on 2014-04-21
Hey nishanthc-1993,

I am very sorry I really don't remember much regarding what I did.. (my question is almost a year old) i should have jotted down then what I did.. Anyways, if you can tell me about the reasons of your problem, or a bit in detail about your problem, I might be able to help!

---

