---
title: "ntfs-config"
date: 2008-02-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gobuntu on 2008-02-23
Dear friends,

I am so happy with Ubuntu, that I have bought another laptop and just installed Gutsy desktop. That's after a few good months of using/learning about Ubuntu/Linux (which is indeed a vast task of no real end).

Unlike on the first laptop, Gutsy DID NOT automatically mount my Windows partitions, for I need to have read/write access to them, for what I do.

I edited /etc/fstab, and so forth, to no avail.

Then I installed, via Synaptics, ntfs-config, and ran it, with a most simple and good result, so that I now CAN MANAGE with it my mounting/unmounting of internal Windows partitions (just as I would like to have had in a default Windows double boot installation).

However, ntfs-config TOTALLY REPLACED the fstab file with its own, very elegantly, making a backup of the original, and clearly commenting its own fstab file. The new fstab file is actually so simple, and ntfs-config is such a simple tool to use, so far, and it does just what one can't easily do by trial and error tweaking.

My questions are:

1. Since the new fstab file is completely different (and much simpler) than the fstab in my first installation (automatically done by Ubuntu), is this new fstab file completely compatible (as far as management of ntfs partitions), specially on reliability and overall purpose?

2. Put another way, I read Ubuntu Gutsy uses ntfs-3g. Is this correct, and is it used without any deviation, since I notice that ntfs-config relies in ntfs-3g, according to the new fstab file?

3. I find many questions on how to mount/unmount (manage ntfs partitions), so, if ntf-config is OK on how it does the job, isn't it pretty much  one of the best solutions, and so Ubuntu should install it, or something like it, as a default?

4. If what seems to be is not so, then I would need to find-out why the standard installation DID NOT automatically mount my ntfs XP partitions correctly, as it did on my first laptop. If all's OK, then I won't, and leave the new fstab as is. Is this OK?

Thanks for any replies.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2008-02-24
> **gobuntu said:**
> 

1. Since the new fstab file is completely different (and much simpler) than the fstab in my first installation (automatically done by Ubuntu), is this new fstab file completely compatible (as far as management of ntfs partitions), specially on reliability and overall purpose?

How would anyone know that? It would help if you'd posted the two for comparison.

> 2. Put another way, I read Ubuntu Gutsy uses ntfs-3g. Is this correct, and is it used without any deviation, since I notice that ntfs-config relies in ntfs-3g, according to the new fstab file?

Ntfs-3g is a driver providing the write support, whereas ntfs-config is a configuration tool. You obviously need the first to use the second.

> 3. I find many questions on how to mount/unmount (manage ntfs partitions), so, if ntf-config is OK on how it does the job, isn't it pretty much  one of the best solutions, and so Ubuntu should install it, or something like it, as a default?

Never used ntfs-config.

> 4. If what seems to be is not so, then I would need to find-out why the standard installation DID NOT automatically mount my ntfs XP partitions correctly, as it did on my first laptop. If all's OK, then I won't, and leave the new fstab as is. Is this OK?

Did not mount correctly? What do you mean? I thought you said they where not mounted at all. [Gutsy DID NOT automatically mount my Windows partitions]
[/QUOTE]

---

### Post by gobuntu on 2008-02-25
[I]mikewhatever;4392848 How would anyone know that? It would help if you'd posted the two for comparison.
[/I]
+ It'd be like comparing apples to oranges. They are from differnt computers. Also, if you have not used ntfs-config, you might not make sense of the one generated by ntfs-config, would say. I basically am asking if ntfs-config is reliable and compatible as far as it relates to ntfs-3g.
---------------------------------

[I]Ntfs-3g is a driver providing the write support, whereas ntfs-config is a configuration tool. You obviously need the first to use the second.
[/I]
+ Yes, I realized the above, but am asking if Ubuntu is using ntfs-3g, and if so is not deviating from their development, for if so, ntfs-config is recommended by ntfs-3g site.
--------------------------------
[I]Never used ntfs-config.
[/I]
+You might like it, if there are no technical objections, which is what I am trying to find out.
----------------------------------

[I]Did not mount correctly? What do you mean? I thought you said they where not mounted at all. [Gutsy DID NOT automatically mount my Windows partitions]
[/I]
+ Yes again, not mounting them is "incorrect" to me.

Thanks for your kind help.

---

