---
title: "64 or 32 bit???"
date: 2009-04-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kboy on 2009-04-04
Hey I have a dual core 2 T5800 processor, and I was wandering which ubuntu is best for the processor the x86 version or the 64 bit version???

thanks.

---

### Post by dtoronto on 2009-04-04
I don't think it's a matter of which one is best.  I would go with the x86 unless you have over 4gb of memory and are planning on running a bunch of 64-bit apps.  64-bit may give you problems with compatibility on 32-bit software.

---

### Post by CyberMando on 2009-04-04
I would go with 64 bit unless you know of some software that will give you trouble.
I run 64 bit on a laptop and things that used to give trouble like Flash and acroread and firefox now work in 64 bit. Better yet, use Jaunty with KDE 4.2.2 and don't bother with acroread.

---

### Post by 3Miro on 2009-04-04
I used to dual boot 32-64 since not everything worked well enough for the 64-bit yet. I am running two machines, both with 64 and having no trouble. Go with 64 and unless you have driver/software issue, stuck to it.

---

### Post by woppy71 on 2009-04-04
Yes, as stated, some packages that you thought would have worked wont install because you get the old "wrong Architecture" error.... so, unless you have a specific need for 64bit, then I would install the 32bit distro. :)

---

### Post by mb_webguy on 2009-04-04
As someone who uses 64-bit Ubuntu, I'm going to have to completely disagree with the posters who suggested you use 32-bit.

While it was true in the past that 64-bit Linux wasn't well supported, it's not the case anymore.  Every application I have wanted to install has been available in a 64-bit version, and I've installed a *lot* of software.  Besides, with open-source software, even if a deb isn't available for a 64-bit system, you can always compile it yourself.  I've only had to do this for one particular piece of software in the last year, and it was a minor software project that hadn't been updated in over a year.

64-bit systems have more [advantages over 32-bit systems]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/64-bit#Pros_and_cons") than just being able to use more than 4GB of memory.  If that's all there was to it, then people wouldn't bother with 64-bit systems, because 32-bit Linux can actually use up to 64GB of memory if PAE is enabled.

It's actually better to run 64-bit Linux than 64-bit Windows, because many applications that run on 64-bit Windows are actually compiled for 32-bit Windows, and so don't take advantage of the 64-bit architecture.  In an open-source OS like Linux, which primarily uses open-source software, most applications running on a 64-bit system will be compiled for a 64-bit system, and therefore utilize the larger registers and address space.

You paid for a 64-bit system, and 64-bit Linux is now well-supported.  Why waste all of that extra power by installing 32-bit Linux on it?

---

### Post by Nostalos on 2009-04-04
I love these posts ;)  Guess I will finally put my 2 cents in on one of em.  I use both 64bit and 32bit.   And with the release of 64bit java browser plugins and the beta for 64bit Adobe Flash I have much love for my 64 bit system.

However,  64 bit binaries are bigger and use more ram (hey you gotta put the those extra bit somewhere).    So if you have a machine with 1GB of RAM or less, I recommend going 32bit.  My work desktop only has 1GB of RAM and i tinkered with running 64bit on it after having much success with my laptop on 3GB of RAM.   What regularly ran fine under 32bit with about 70% free did not run near as well under 64bit and caused the system to consume swap space.

64bit is nice, but there is a tradeoff for it.

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-04-04
64-bit is a problem on Windows, but it isn't on Linux. Go 64-bit unless you have under 2GiB of RAM. (64-bit programs do take up more RAM because certain numbers and memory addresses are twice as long, but if you've got 2GiB or more this will be irrelevent and you will see certain applications perform better under 64-bit).

Happily running 64-bit.

---

