---
title: "10.04 slows down and greys out alot"
date: 2010-06-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-08
I have yet to figure out why it does this and have searched through multiple threads to locate a solution with no luck. So I apologize if this has been answered. Right now my problem is my pc continues to go grey screen several times every minute. Regardless of what I have open or what I am doing the computer freezes for several seconds before allowing me to do anything. Please help..

Ubuntu 10.04 LT 64-bit
Mainboard ASUS P5KPL-CM
Pentium Core2Duo 2.5Ghz OC'd to 3.01 Ghz
4 Gigs DDR2 800Mhz OC'd to 1600Mhz
Nvidia GeForce 9500 GT w/1 Gig Memory
Main HDD 120 GB SATA
Secondary HDD 160 GB SATA
Third HDD 120 GB PATA

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-06-08
Have you yet run the system Update Manager since installing Ubuntu and allowed it to download and install all updates? Have you activated the proprietary driver recommended for your video card (if there is one available for your card) by going to the menu System>> Administration>> Hardware Drivers? Doing these two things might help fix the problem.

---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-08
I have done both.  There was no improvement.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-06-08
I have no experience with the 64 bit version, but here are two more suggestions (which probably have nothing to do with the problem). Open the system Update Manager settings and turn off the auto update option. Then open your screensaver settings and set it to "Blank Screen Only" and increase the time before blanking to 15 minutes. I doubt either will help.

EDIT: Is this a true dual boot setup, or did you install Ubuntu inside Windows using the Wubi installer?

---

### Post by _khAttAm_ on 2010-06-08
When this happens again, wait for it to be responsive and post the o/p of:
```
free -m
```
and
```
top
```

---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-08
There is no dual booting.. My system is running Ubuntu only. Of course I do have WinXP installed in VirtualBox, but that doesn't count.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-06-09
I should butt-out of this thread because my level of experience is far below what is required to deal with your system. But I'll offer two more noob guesses. Guess 1 - It sounds possible that your system is attempting to write to swap, and maybe you don't have a swap partition because (from what I understand) swap is unnecessary with 4 GB of ram. Guess 2 - Possibly your three hard drives are set up in a RAID array that gives Ubuntu indigestion. Sorry I can't be of more help.

---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-09
Well I actually have 4 gigs set aside for swap space.. I figured it couldn't hurt. And secondly they are not setup in a RAID array

---

### Post by pommie on 2010-06-09
First things first,

Pentium Core2Duo 2.5Ghz OC'd to 3.01 Ghz
4 Gigs DDR2 800Mhz OC'd to 1600Mhz

reset your computer to standard settings and see if it still occurs, thats one hell of a big o/c on your ram, it could be that the cpu and ram are out of sync and any kind of load on the bus is being corrupted, causing the info to have to be sent again, meaning that instead of speeding up the ram you have in effect bogged it down, causing the o/s to grey out the screen.

Cheers David

---

### Post by Chrierton on 2010-06-09
I had the same issue on a fresh 64 bit install on a new ext4 partition, it was basically unusable. I "fixed" it by adding "barrier=0" to the end of the root partition in the /etc/fstab file. Which I believe makes it more likely you'll lose data if there's a power failure etc. YMMV.

---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-09
Ok well I reset all CPU and RAM settings to normal and tried adding that line to fstab.. barely any noticeable difference. Next suggestion please..

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-06-09
Is Ubuntu installed on the first Hard Drive? Have you tried turning off the desktop effects System>> Preferences>> Appearance? Shutting down the VM makes no difference?

---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-09
I have disabled desktop effects and tried the other Nvidia driver provided. And yes Ubuntu is installed on the primary HDD which is the 120 SATA, but for some reason the GRUB was installed on the PATA.. Not sure why that is.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-06-09
GRUB being on a different drive than the OS root partition sounds like a possible cause of the problem. Last year, the first time I used the new GRUB2 (and ext4), I had Ubuntu installed on my second hdd... and GRUB2 was installed in the MBR of the first hdd (where Win XP was located). Whenever I would boot up and select Ubuntu from the grub2 menu, the system wouldn't boot until it had scanned both hard drives... meaning boot up times were nearly two minutes before reaching the Ubuntu log in. Ubuntu was also horribly sluggish with this setup compared to it's performance when installed on the first hard drive.

I'm not going to suggest you do anything before getting some feedback from other posters. But if this were my computer, I would re-install grub2 to the MBR of the primary hard drive.

---

### Post by lespeggy on 2010-06-09
First I'm not an expert by any means. My suggestion would be run system monitor/ processes and see if there is something that is chewing up all of your cpu or ram.

---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-09
Well I have fixed the GRUB and put it on the HDD with Ubuntu. Double checked my driver for the video card. I have begun noticing that whenever a download is in progress regardless if it is an update or some random file off the web that is when the problem starts happening more often. It has began to slowly not happen as often with a few tips here, but it still is and it is starting to really bug me. I even went as far as removing some programs that I rarely use. Still not solving the problem.

---

### Post by 4Orbs on 2010-06-10
Man, I was really hoping the grub thing would straighten it out. Now, this is something I know nothing about... but I've seen a lot of posts about the 64 bit version having problems because of flash or the flash plugin. I've never read any of those posts, but I get the feeling it's a significant issue. Have you looked into that area to see if any of the symptoms parallel your problems? I know it's like trying to catch wasps bare handed, but that's the only thing I have left to suggest.

EDIT: Wishful thinking: did you remember to run sudo update-grub after re-installing it on the first hdd?

---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-11
Yes I have looked into that, but I am pretty sure I do not fall into that category with the problems I am facing. For instance I decided to start over from scratch. So when I went to re-install 10.04 I gave it an 8 Gig swap space to safe. Interestingly enough it took almost 4 hours for it to install. I am thinking my problem may be hardware, but I'm not sure.

---

### Post by TexasEdition on 2010-06-13
My hard drive was failing. After installing a replacement everything went to normal. Appreciate all the help.

---

