---
title: "12.04 Update Error"
date: 2012-07-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tazz4vr on 2012-07-27
After allowing updates via Update Manager, I received an error message that reads - Package System Is Broken.  It also reads that I should disable any third party repositories and in terminal do command: apt-get install-f.

Okay, I remember a while back having to go into look at the repositories, I can't remember how I got there... Help!

---

### Post by claracc on 2012-07-28
You can edit your /etc/apt/sources.list file and comment the lines corresponding to third party repositories.

Then, you follow instructions and from xterm run: sudo apt-get install-f

---

### Post by tazz4vr on 2012-07-28
Total newbie here.... would I run '/etc/apt/sources.list file' in terminal and what do you mean by 'comment the lines'?

Is 'xterm' the same as terminal or is that something different altogether?

---

### Post by claracc on 2012-07-29
You can do it in two ways:

Through menu: in system -->administration -->software sources (you will have to enter your root password), and then select other software, there you untick (disable) the lines corresponding to third party repositories then close and save.

Or you can do it through terminal (xterm is terminal), editing sources.list file: sudo gedit /etc/apt/sources.list (you will have to enter your root password), then you can comment lines in the file corresponding to third party repositories, comment them mean to put The # symbol before the line. Then close and save.

Then you run in terminal the command: sudo apt-get install-f

---

### Post by tazz4vr on 2012-07-30
Thank you very much, that seems to have worked.  Now the question I have is do I go back and recheck the line corresponding to the third party repositories?  If so, do I need to redo this whole process when I am updating?

---

### Post by claracc on 2012-07-31
With command apt-get install -f you have fixed broken dependencies.

I think, then, you can enable third party repositories one by one and trying to update. 

What are the third part repositories do you have?

---

### Post by tazz4vr on 2012-08-03
New issue with Update Manager.  Tried to install Skype, error message says to please report a bug against Update Manager.... can anyone please advise as to how I report this error.

---

