---
title: "7.10 Gusty sleep/hibernation cannot resume"
date: 2008-03-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by chiisana on 2008-03-09
I searched before, and found a thread in dell's category about laptop's being unable to resume properly; but I didn't find anything on PCs, so I figured I'd start a thread here to see if I can get some help on this matter.

I have a ... PC.  As undescriptive as it sounds, it really is just what it is.  It's put together from all the scrap parts I've got over the year.  I believe its got a P4 2.0GHz, and 1Gb of ram; without gutting open the case, I really don't recall the mother board model nor the power supplier make; but it is safe to assume an Asus board (that seems to be all we buy here), and generic no brand power supplier.

Now, on to the actual issue.  Due to lazy factors, I've configured the machine to go into sleep/hibernation mode after 20 minutes via System > Preference > Power Management.  And as far as I can tell, it goes into whatever mode it is just fine (I believe it is hibernate, because moving mouse and tapping keyboard doesn't bring it back, and I'd need to hit the power button to get response).  But it doesn't come back fine...

I get to the login prompt, which is good, and I log in to see a small balloon saying it failed to enter sleep mode, click to hide, immediately followed by another one saying it failed to get out of sleep mode.  And when both balloon goes away, I see the machine happily put itself back into sleep/hibernate mode, and powers itself down.  Hitting the power button again brings me back to the login prompt, login, and I get them balloons again, except this time, it'll stay on, and not loop (luckily).

I don't know how I'd come about tracking this issue, as I don't know where to dig for the logs and or how to set hibernate.sh and resume.sh to record what is being done/error'ed.  I'd be greatly appreciated if someone can shed some lights on this issue, so this pc can sleep/hibernate properly.

---

