---
title: "11.04 - 11.10 update interrputed: won't boot now"
date: 2012-06-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by androidaintlinux on 2012-06-06
So few weeks ago I was suggested by Ubutu to update the OS, and I finally decided why not. The version I was on was 11.04, it suggested 11.10 (I think). But during the update, we had problems with electricity (yeah, I know). So I had to interrupt the update and shut down the system.
There wasn't any warning message with "INTERRUPTING THIS WILL CAUSE HORRIBLE SLOW DEATH" as far as I remember, plus you actually had the ability to pause/stop it and it was running on a regular gnome window, so I thought nothing horrible would happen.

Well it did. I can't boot to Ubuntu anymore (I have Wind7 dualboot with GRUB).
I've made screenshots of exactly what I get:

1)
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/bDFPG.jpg[/IMG]

2)
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/wwZzA.jpg[/IMG]

3) (selecting first option, unchanged)
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/6Zoem.jpg[/IMG]

4)
[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/3CdMP.jpg[/IMG]

And like that till infinity.

I don't even mind erasing it all and installing a new version from a cd/dvd, as all my files are backed up in Windows and I only have few programs to reinstall. But I don't want to mess up GRUB and Windows 7.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-06-06
Choose exit to console login.

Login then 

sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade

sudo dpkg --configure -a

---

### Post by androidaintlinux on 2012-06-06
So I tried typing that where you said, but Ubuntu didn't accept my usual login and password. I was pretty sure I passed the right information, which was later proven when it worked in the next startup, but now:

I couldn't login with my usual login and pass. I managed to type that in recovery mode. Actually had to change the order and add some extra arguments to some commands (as suggested by Ubuntu) for it to work. Took about an hour. Ubuntu booted. Unity sucks for me, so I tried to go and download Gnome, but guess what? terminal isn't present.

Hm, maybe we should just try to nuke the current ubuntu and install  fresh one.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-06-06
ctrl alt t for terminal. Or type term into dash. You can of course install gnome-panel logout and choose classic as a default session. Or lxde etc etc.

---

### Post by androidaintlinux on 2012-06-07
Woah, wait, what? Is that the only way to access such programs? You either have to remember the program name and actually type it each time or remember a 3-button keyboard shortcut? No wonder everyone whines about Unity.  At least for me all my deskop icons, files, folders are gone, The Ubuntu themes are gone (so feels like Windows XP).  I'm into tech stuff and write Python programs for fun, but for a regular user this is too much work. Please don't force your new UI down our throats Canonical. It tastes horrible. [/rant]  Okay, thanks. I have an option to use Gnome classic now. But the fact that all icons, files, folders in the desktop and all the themes are gone suck.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-06-07
> **androidaintlinux said:**
> Woah, wait, what? Is that the only way to access such programs? You either have to remember the program name and actually type it each time or remember a 3-button keyboard shortcut? No wonder everyone whines about Unity.  At least for me all my deskop icons, files, folders are gone, The Ubuntu themes are gone (so feels like Windows XP).  I'm into tech stuff and write Python programs for fun, but for a regular user this is too much work. Please don't force your new UI down our throats Canonical. It tastes horrible. [/rant]  Okay, thanks. I have an option to use Gnome classic now. But the fact that all icons, files, folders in the desktop and all the themes are gone suck.

In Unity if you hold down the Win key an overlay pops up with all the keyboard shortcuts.

If you click on the BFB (top left button) to get Dash and then the second icon from the left on the bottom you can get all apps listed. This is the App lens.

---

