---
title: "8.10 will not completely shutdown computer"
date: 2008-11-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thatairman on 2008-11-26
I need a bit of help here. i viewed the forum for this very same problem. I tried the cmd sudo gedit/etc/modules in the command prompt says it's not a valid command. what am i doing wrong here????? ](*,)

---

### Post by pennacook on 2008-11-26
perhaps you don't have gedit installed? Does dpkg -s gedit report back that it is installed? You could always use vi instead of gedit [ducks]:)

---

### Post by Wayne_V on 2008-11-26
You did have a space in there right?   "sudo      gedit     /etc/modules"

---

### Post by Idefix82 on 2008-11-26
> **pennacook said:**
> perhaps you don't have gedit installed? Does dpkg -s gedit report back that it is installed? You could always use vi instead of gedit [ducks]:)

Gedit is installed by default and vi is the worst editor for newbies that one could think of. The mistake was in omitting the space between "gedit" and "/etc/modules".

---

### Post by thatairman on 2008-11-26
yes I did have the space in there and yes gedit is installed

---

### Post by thatairman on 2008-11-26
sudo gedit /etc/modules gets ctk-warning: cannot open display

---

### Post by glendavee on 2008-11-26
I've been having same problem since upgrading to 8.10. Also boot time was very long. Both problems have been solved by installing the new Network Manager via Synaptic - previously I had wckd installed.

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2008-11-26
> **thatairman said:**
> sudo gedit /etc/modules gets ctk-warning: cannot open display
Do you get the same when running:

gksudo gedit /etc/modules

(gksudo is used for graphical applications, sudo for command-line, see: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo) for some info)

---

### Post by thatairman on 2008-11-26
> **happyhamster said:**
> Do you get the same when running:

gksudo gedit /etc/modules

(gksudo is used for graphical applications, sudo for command-line, see: [http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/graphicalsudo) for some info)

Uh yup same thing

---

### Post by thatairman on 2008-11-26
is this the module i need to edit?
# /etc/modules: kernel modules to load at boot time.
#
# This file contains the names of kernel modules that should be loaded
# at boot time, one per line. Lines beginning with "#" are ignored.

fuse
lp

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2008-11-27
That's the /etc/modules allright. But I don't know if it's the right file to edit, because I don't know what you want to do. Are you following a tutorial of some kind?

---

### Post by thatairman on 2008-11-29
> **happyhamster said:**
> That's the /etc/modules allright. But I don't know if it's the right file to edit, because I don't know what you want to do. Are you following a tutorial of some kind?

yeah i found a thread with the command that was was missing for the complete shutdown for my computer witch is apm power_off=1 if thats what need to throw in there to make it shut down all the way let me know thanks here's the link to the thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1714220&postcount=9](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=1714220&postcount=9)

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2008-11-30
I'm not sure if that will still work. On Ubuntu Intrepid or Hardy, apm isn't a module but part of the kernel (and it is disabled by default). So instead of editing /etc/modules you need to set a kernelparameter. First thing you can do though, is to check if the powermanager is enabled. Go to System-->Preferences-->Sessions and make sure the Power Manager option is ticked. (If it wasn't, then reboot and see if you can shut down the computer properly.)

- Anyway, to check if apm is available as a module, open a terminal and run:

modprobe apm

- If there's no such module, you'll get a "FATAL: Module apm not found." message. In that case, the safest way for you proceed is to manually add the neccessary parameters in the grub menu. Don't edit any files yet.

- Boot the computer. You'll enter the grub menu automatically. If not, press the escape key a few times when you see the "GRUB loading.." message.

- In the grub menu, the first line should be highlighted, press 'e' to edit that line. Now select the second line. It will look something like this:

kernel /boot/vmlinuz-....... root=UUID=......

- With that line highlighted, press 'e' again. You'll see the kernel parameters that are currently in use. In my case:

> 
ro quiet splash


- To get apm to work, I would have to make it look like:

> 
ro quiet splash apm=on apm=power-off


- So, just add apm=on apm=power-off to whatever is there already. When you're done, press enter. You will be returned to the previous screen. Now press 'b' to boot with the new parameters.

- Test if everything still works, and if you're able to shutdown properly now. (Note: this procedure is pretty safe, because all changes are temporary: everything will be as before after a reboot.) Only when you're sure that you want to make these changes permanent should you edit any files.


I'll come back to you on that though (having dinner now (zuurkool, hmmm :))

---

### Post by happyhamster on 2008-11-30
- Ok, if you want to make the changes permanent, you'll need to edit /boot/grub/menu.lst. First make a backup of that file:

sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.lst /boot/grub/menu.bak

gksudo gedit /boot/grub/menu.lst

- In my case, the interesting part of the file looks like this (the last line will be different for you):

> 
## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=ebf42de9-ea1c-4e8b-8a55-d859ef860222 ro 

- add the parameters to that last line:

> 

## ## Start Default Options ##
## default kernel options
## default kernel options for automagic boot options
## If you want special options for specific kernels use kopt_x_y_z
## where x.y.z is kernel version. Minor versions can be omitted.
## e.g. kopt=root=/dev/hda1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8=root=/dev/hdc1 ro
##      kopt_2_6_8_2_686=root=/dev/hdc2 ro
# kopt=root=UUID=ebf42de9-ea1c-4e8b-8a55-d859ef860222 ro apm=on apm=power-off

- Again, the last line will have a different UUID in your case, don't change that or anything else; just add the parameters. Save and exit the text editor. Last thing to do is to update grub:

sudo update-grub

- If you get no errors* at this point, you're done. Reboot. (The changes you made should be visible in the grub menu now BTW.)

* if you do get errors, restore the backup you made:
sudo cp /boot/grub/menu.bak /boot/grub/menu.lst
sudo update-grub



If you think something's wrong, or if you don't know what to do, don't edit anything, just ask here. Good luck.

---

