---
title: "8.04.1 DVD image defective?"
date: 2008-07-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Spik3balloon on 2008-07-05
Hello. I'm a newbie user who downloaded the AMD64 DVD image from the [releases](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/8.04.1/release/) folder. I've verified the MD5 of my downloaded image with the one provided and it matches, however when I mount it on a virtual drive in Windows or burn it, the autorun menu (umenu.exe) says:
"Invalid CD detected"

What's going on?

---

### Post by VMC on 2008-07-05
> **Spik3balloon said:**
> Hello. I'm a newbie user who downloaded the AMD64 DVD image from the [releases](http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/8.04.1/release/) folder. I've verified the MD5 of my downloaded image with the one provided and it matches, however when I mount it on a virtual drive in Windows or burn it, the autorun menu (umenu.exe) says:
"Invalid CD detected"

What's going on?

I don't know about the VM, but when you burn it, make sure you have the correct CD or DVD selection. Is it expecting a CD media and you put in a DVD media. What program in Windows are you using?

---

### Post by Spik3balloon on 2008-07-05
> **VMC said:**
> I don't know about the VM, but when you burn it, make sure you have the correct CD or DVD selection. Is it expecting a CD media and you put in a DVD media. What program in Windows are you using?

Used Nero 8 to burn the DVD image (3.74GB) onto a DVD.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-07-05
Can you boot from the DVD?

Jim

---

### Post by Spik3balloon on 2008-07-05
> **cariboo907 said:**
> Can you boot from the DVD?

Jim

Yep, boot works fine. Just finished installing, and happily running Ubuntu. :) Thanks for the quick responses.

However, it's still strange that the autorun loader (I'm assuming the problem is related to Wubi) did not work though. The system is Windows Vista Ultimate x86 with SP1.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-07-05
I'm not sure, but it may related to the fact that the DVD has both the Desktop installation and the Alternate installation on it.

Jim

---

### Post by juky on 2008-07-06
Hello,

I have the same issue, both with 8.04 and 8.04.1 release (i386). MD5 check is ok.

When I burn it, nothing is displayed inside burned DVD, in both cases.

When I mount it (Win XP), I get this "Invalid CD detected message".

Any ideas?

Thanks in advance!

---

