---
title: "10.10 - Flash problems in Chromium"
date: 2011-03-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by TomX19 on 2011-03-08
Specifically with LoveFilm player (which works okay in Firefox).

I have installed the latest version of the Adobe Flash Player plugin, and checked that libflashplayer.so is in /usr/lib/chromium-browser/plugins

Content works fine in YouTube, iPLayer, 4OD etc. but gives me the following error in LoveFilm's player:

> This content requires the Adobe Flash Player version 10.0.32.
Check Flash is enabled in your browser or get Flash.
Your current Flash version is: 10,0

I have version 10.3.162.29

Previously, Chrome had been nagging me (via a pop-up bar) to update Flash Player but letting me run stuff anyway if I chose that option (every time, which was getting annoying).

I was under the impression that Chrome had its own Flash player going on, but maybe I am out of date on that one...

Can anyone help?

Cheers

Tom

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-03-08
> I have installed the latest version of the Adobe Flash Player plugin, and checked that libflashplayer.so is in /usr/lib/chromium-browser/plugins
did you remove any other flash installed from the system repositories first? looks like you still have an older version of flash installed.

---

### Post by TomX19 on 2011-03-08
Hi,

I'm not sure about that, but I have just managed to roll back to version 10.2.152.27 and LoveFilm's player is now working again in Chrome and Firefox.  I did a complete removal and reinstall using Synaptic, and also deleted libflashplayer.so from the relevant plug-in folders.  What you said about the older version in the repositories; it might explain why Chrome was nagging me to update?

Thanks

---

### Post by Spyderkid on 2011-03-08
Chrome does have an inbuilt flash player, it works better using Google chrome not Chromium

---

### Post by Spyderkid on 2011-03-08
because google chrome has more updates i think and is updated using the update manager

---

### Post by gandaran on 2011-03-08
> **TomX19 said:**
> Hi,

I'm not sure about that, but I have just managed to roll back to version 10.2.152.27 and LoveFilm's player is now working again in Chrome and Firefox.  I did a complete removal and reinstall using Synaptic, and also deleted libflashplayer.so from the relevant plug-in folders.  What you said about the older version in the repositories; it might explain why Chrome was nagging me to update?

Thanks
Chrome doesn't use the system installed flash , it has it's own built in flash, you have to keep the browser updated to have the latest flash, on the other hand Chromium uses the system installed flash or can even pick up the flash plugin from the firefox plugins folder.

---

