---
title: "12.04: EEE PC 901 force higher brightness: eee-control"
date: 2015-11-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by EEE901 on 2015-11-22
Hello,

I've been running lubuntu 12.04 for a few years now on my EEE PC 901. The brightness of the screen has been degrading over the years. I read that the tool eee-control was able to force a higher brightness than standard (100%). Unfortunately eee-control seems to be no longer supported in 12.04. I tried installing the latest version, but it doesn't launch.

Is there an alternative tool? Or maybe a way to force a higher brightness through the terminal.

Any ideas?

Thanks!

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-11-23
Exactly what happens when you try installing the latest Lubuntu?

---

### Post by EEE901 on 2015-11-24
I don't really want to install the latest Lubuntu. 12.04 works fine, and I don't know if the latest Lubuntu will fit on the tiny 4gb ssd. Or has Lubuntu 15 better backwards compatibily for example EEE-control?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-11-24
First of all Lubuntu 15.10 is supported unlike 12.04, which is a security breach.

If 12.04 fits on 4 GB then 15.10 does also. If you do for example a [core install]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Lubuntu/Documentation/MinimalInstall") you will probably use even less space.

---

### Post by EEE901 on 2015-11-24
Ok, thanks.  I will look into the core install.

But how will this help my stated question?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-11-24
12.04 should not be used even if the brightness worked because of the support problem. 

Besides, your observation
> **EEE901 said:**
> Unfortunately eee-control seems to be no longer supported in 12.04.
indicates that moving to a recent Lubuntu is worth trying. 

As 15.10 is the most complete with regards to hardware support and very low on bugs it's my recommendation for a reinstall.

---

### Post by EEE901 on 2015-11-24
Thanks for your quick reply. I understand your reasoning! 

Is there any indication that an application like eee-control that last worked on 10.04 (and hasn't been developed since) will work again on the newest release of lubuntu (is there more legacy support under the hood of the OS)? 

Sorry for the maybe newb-like questions.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-11-24
Eee-control looks like an abandoned project. Better to see which alternatives are now offered in Lubuntu.

---

