---
title: "16.04.2 LTS Broken - Cant Type in Password @ Login Screen/Frozen Login Screen"
date: 2017-03-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gammayt on 2017-03-16
Hi-  I was watching this video [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVxE258iw2c](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVxE258iw2c)
and on the second step it said something (i forgot) was in use? So then I logged
out, thinking that would fix the problem, but then when I was trying to type my 
password in the whole screen froze.  I could not type or move my mouse
 (I didn't even see my mouse) and I tried restarting my computer several times
 but nothing happened; it's still broke.  I have an Intel Graphics 4600 GPU and a
 i7-4790K processor if that helps.  Please reply as soon as possible thanks!

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-03-17
Seriously ?

You want others to go and watch a youtube video to find out what the problem is and you've forgotten what was in use ? Don't take this the wrong way but you have to help others help you.

So, you have rebooted your machine.. do you get to the Desktop and in what way is it still "broke" ?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-03-17
How did you try to restart the computer?

What actually happened when you did, or do you mean that you could not restart it?

---

### Post by lysander6662 on 2017-03-17
To me this sounds like you have started an installation incorrectly somehow. You say you were you the second step. That makes me assume that you did something on the first step wrongly. However it's very hard to know exactly what you did or could have done. 

The only thing I can say is that the symptoms of **"So then I logged out, thinking that would fix the problem, but then when I was trying to type my password in the whole screen froze. I could not type or move my mouse (I didn't even see my mouse) and I tried restarting my computer several times but nothing happened; it's still broke**" sounds like you've managed to mess up the OS, maybe irreparably. I did the same thing myself on my first day with Ubuntu through misintalling a program, with exactly the same results as you're describing. The only solution was reinstalling the OS. Maybe someone else can confirm if that sounds right/wrong but it sounds like a suspiciously similar situation.

---

### Post by gammayt on 2017-03-17
Okay, so to uninstall Ubuntu and reinstall can I just delete the partition, or do I have to do something else because I'm afraid my computer won't boot because when I power on my computer it has something that said ubuntu, something else, windows boot manager, and something else

---

### Post by gammayt on 2017-03-17
And when I restart it I got the problem; I cannot even type in my password, the screen is completely frozen, no mouse, cannot move mouse, etc.

---

### Post by lysander6662 on 2017-03-17
Before we proceed I would at least wait for advice from another member. I am not the most authoritative Ubuntu user by a long way, but the situation you describe is exactly the same as one I had about a month ago.

However, if you do want to proceed I do not think you need to uninstall, you can just overwrite. How are you installing, live CD or USB? You should be just able to boot from that and install anew.

If you have no important data to lose on your Ubuntu install, you just can just go ahead, I would have thought. However, if you have data you would lose [and no backups!] then I would wait for some more input.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-03-17
Have you tried booting to command line by going to Ctrl+Alt+F1 at the login screen?
If you can get to there and login to the command line with your username and password (password will not show as you type it but it will be entered), you may be able to uninstall steam, which appears to be where all this started.

I am not a gamer and have never installed steam so I will have to leave you to deal with that, but I presume the reverse of your **sudo apt-get install steam** (I think that is what the video link suggested, but check that first) should work, ie ```
sudo apt-get remove steam
```

However, you certainly do not need to remove your current installation; you can, as lysander6662 said, simply overwrite it when reinstalling by choosing the "Something Else" option at partitioning stage.

---

### Post by gammayt on 2017-03-17
I already re-installed by just deleting the partitions and putting the disc in and installing again.  I just used a different method of installing Steam using terminal and it seemed to work.  I will make a new thread if it happens again, hopefully for more support.  I'm downloading CS:GO rn ;)
I'm also making another post if you can help, about a printer not getting recognized.  Thanks for the support again <3

---

### Post by lysander6662 on 2017-03-17
Cool, glad it worked out [though I see you're having printer issues by your other thread, hopefully you'll receive assistance with that].

---

