---
title: ".conf file problem - hwclock and ACPI wakealarm"
date: 2016-01-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nmw01223 on 2016-01-24
I have a MythBuntu 14.04 installation, but this is purely a Ubuntu issue.

One of the things I need to do is get ACPI wakeup on RTC to work, and I cannot. There is a conf file /etc/init/hwclock-save.conf that gets run on shutdown to rewrite the time to the hardware clock. It contains script ... end script and the main command within that is exec hwclock .... , which does the rewriting.

It appears from Myth TV documentation that the act of doing that wipes out any already set wakealarm. Therefore the recommended approach to get around it is to save the current wakealarm (Unix time) in a variable $ACPITIME, run the command (above) to rewrite the time, then resave the wakealarm time. The modified script code being:
```

script
    . /etc/default/rcS
    [ "$UTC" = "yes" ] && tz="--utc" || tz="--localtime"
    [ "$BADYEAR" = "yes" ] && badyear="--badyear"
    ACPITIME=`cat /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/wakealarm`
    exec hwclock --rtc=/dev/rtc0 --systohc $tz --noadjfile $badyear
    echo "$ACPITIME" > /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/wakealarm
end script
```
(script lines 4 and 6 being new, the rest unchanged).

Doesn't work for me. Doesn't restart, and if I look at the RTC BIOS setup on boot, I cannot see the set time, which I guess I should. (I am fairly sure the value written to /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/wakealarm before shutdown is OK).

I then tried writing to a log file (echo .... >>$MY_FILE) at various stages through that and I found that anything I wrote to the log before the 'exec hwclock ...' line was OK, but nothing after it appeared, so I also assumed the ACPI time writing after that also didn't happen.

I then noted that an error in the script causes the script to stop, so I wondered if hwclock was returning an error (it doesn't when I just run it from a terminal), so I altered the file to put 'end script' after the exec line, followed by 'post-stop script' so the bit that rewrote the ACPI time should run anyway, regardless of errors in the main script.
```

script
    . /etc/default/rcS
    [ "$UTC" = "yes" ] && tz="--utc" || tz="--localtime"
    [ "$BADYEAR" = "yes" ] && badyear="--badyear"
    ACPITIME=`cat /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/wakealarm`
    exec hwclock --rtc=/dev/rtc0 --systohc $tz --noadjfile $badyear
end script
post-stop script
    echo "$ACPITIME" > /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/wakealarm
end script

```

Still didn't work and still any logging in the 'post-stop script .... end script' area didn't happen.

So now I'm stuck. I don't see what is wrong. So I thought I would ask for expert advice ...

Addendum: just realised that any variables from script ... end script will not survive to post-stop script ... end script so the 2nd code will not work, but that doesn't explain what was wrong in the first place.

---

### Post by nmw01223 on 2016-02-21
This proved to be down to the motherboard - ASRock AliveNF6P VSTA. Could not get it to come back from soft powerdown (S5). The way to do it was to use suspend to RAM as detailed in [https://www.mythtv.org/wiki/ACPI_Wakeup#S3_.28Suspend_to_RAM.29](https://www.mythtv.org/wiki/ACPI_Wakeup#S3_.28Suspend_to_RAM.29).

This works OK but is not as desirable since the m/c spends a long time suspended. A powerfail will then result in a crash warning on the next boot.

Nonetheless, it works, and a small UPS would really solve it completely.

---

### Post by efolse on 2017-02-11
I can't get echo "$ACPITIME" > /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/wakealarm to run.  Permission denied.  I just changed the name of the whole file to /etc/init/hwclock-save.old  This makes it not update the clock before shutdown but it does not seem to effect the overall running of the system.

---

