---
title: ".LIT to PDF Converter"
date: 2010-05-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gerowen on 2010-05-08
I wrote a short script to convert my wife's .lit files to pdf so she can put them on her ebook reader device.  It works just fine except if the filename contains apostrophes or quotation marks.  I know the problem, it's seeing those as enclosing brackets.  The script is written in python, how would I go about forcing it to ignore any quotes or special characters in the string entered?  Here's the source code of the script.

**Link Removed, see latest post for newer version.**

---

### Post by narendraD on 2010-05-08
While i cannot advice you on your problem, I am interested in converting a few .lit files i have to pdf. What are the dependencies of your script. what is needed. I have Ubuntu 10.04 on my system.

Thanks in advance

---

### Post by _0R10N on 2010-05-09
> **marcusdean.adams said:**
> I wrote a short script to convert my wife's .lit files to pdf so she can put them on her ebook reader device.  It works just fine except if the filename contains apostrophes or quotation marks.  I know the problem, it's seeing those as enclosing brackets.  The script is written in python, how would I go about forcing it to ignore any quotes or special characters in the string entered?  Here's the source code of the script.

[**Linky**]("http://dl.dropbox.com/u/6017319/lit2pdf.py")

Although I don't quite understand what "forcing it to ignore any quotes or special characters in the string entered" means for you, I recommend the use of regular expressions. They define how quotation marks and other special characters should be represented.

Kind regards!

---

### Post by gerowen on 2010-05-09
> **narendraD said:**
> While i cannot advice you on your problem, I am interested in converting a few .lit files i have to pdf. What are the dependencies of your script. what is needed. I have Ubuntu 10.04 on my system.

Thanks in advance

The dependencies are:
convlit, html2ps, and ps2pdf

If you want to execute it after installing those programs just cd into the directory where you downloaded it to and do:
```
python lit2pdf.py
```

It works perfectly except when there are quotation marks or apostrophes in the title as of right now so if you're willing to rename your files before converting them it will work for you just fine, :-)

---

### Post by narendraD on 2010-05-10
Thanks for the reply. However Synaptic cant find ps2pdf. Which repo is it in in 10.04.

---

### Post by gerowen on 2010-05-10
Try installing libtommath.  You may already have ps2pdf, try running ps2pdf with no arguments and see if it actually tells you what the options for it are.  If it does then you're g2g.

---

### Post by gerowen on 2010-05-30
Ok, so I've actually got a working copy packaged up, installer and everything.  Readme is in the file, and the following repo should have all the software it needs to run for you.
```
deb http://archive.canonical.com/ lucid partner
```
Here's the actual archive, let me know if you guys have any issues, I'm still working on it.  There's a "Known Issues" section in the Readme that details any problems I am aware of.

[**Lit2PDF**](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/6017319/Software/Lit2PDF%2010.5.30.tar.gz)

P.S. The "version" number on it is just the date that I finished that particular copy.  It should make it easy to tell when I last updated it.  So version 10.5.30 was made on May 30th 2010.

---

### Post by joanmunoz on 2010-07-29
Hi there!

The script works fine for me, but I had to install it as a root, and the icon was not created in the desktop. I had to place the files to convert in the desktop.

Thx and great work!

Joan

---

