---
title: "11.04 downgrade"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xXxG0dzRagexXx on 2011-04-30
Personally i do n ot like the new 11.04 upgrade. there are i few things that right now i am missing. And im having a few problems like i can not move a window around the screen and can only minimize ant maximize. and Macbuntu is not working properly and i cant use desktop cube in Compiz. I want to downgrade and after looking in my position all i can do is to a complete reinstall of ubuntu. but i also am dual booting with windows 7. Anyways i did run in to a major problem becuase i ended up doing 2 installations of ubuntu becuase the first time my laptop died and after looking a gparted i noticed in my ubuntu Partition there definitely was a few issues. I had given ubuntu around 50 gigabytes. It is there but from the second install i guess it did something because through the install it acted like there was no ubuntu and when i was installing in the unallocated space it was like 56 giga bytes the first and second time. so i figured the first install was a no go. Now it seems the second install took twice the unallocated space. but this space said it was 56 but technically there was no unallocated space. it ended up shrinking my windows partition by 100 gigabyte. which i definitely did not one. since windows doesnt like it when something but its self shrinks its partition. now i want this extra 100 gigabytes given back to windows. and ubuntu to stay on this 5o gigabyte area. So finally my question here is how can i delete this extra 100 gigabyte partiton well no. i want the whole extended partition that ubuntu has created with both the installs. gone. then use the extra 150 gigs of unallocated space it hope fully will give me and give it about 60 of that unallocated space and resize the windows to take up the rest of the extra 90. i wanted to  know if i could delete this whole area and have everything work out how i want it. If you want to see a pic of my gparted and how my 2 installs happened please read the last few pages of this thread. ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1735964&page=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1735964&page=5)) you might get a little more BG information there. 

Sorry for the extra long post.

---

### Post by xXxG0dzRagexXx on 2011-05-01
Help anyone?

---

### Post by MountainX on 2011-05-01
x

---

### Post by xXxG0dzRagexXx on 2011-05-01
> **MountainX said:**
> x

uhhhh................ thats helpful?

---

### Post by ilantal on 2011-05-01
I have a somewhat similar setup but instead of a dual boot I use Virtualbox to host XP. I let it host Win7 as well, but Win7 was a memory pig and gave me nothing which I really needed.

In any case, I have a root partition for Ubuntu of 12 Gigabytes. My /home partition takes up the rest of the disk (aside from a small swap partition). This turned out to be fortunate as I had installation problems with 11.04 and I just reformatted the Ubuntu partition and my /home was untouched. The Virtualbox is inside my /home partition so that was unaffected by the update.

I guess it depends upon what you want from Win7 if to host it or dual boot it. In my case I tried both and had no particular advantage from the dual boot, so I hosted it inside Virtualbox.

Ilan

---

### Post by xXxG0dzRagexXx on 2011-05-01
> **ilantal said:**
> I have a somewhat similar setup but instead of a dual boot I use Virtualbox to host XP. I let it host Win7 as well, but Win7 was a memory pig and gave me nothing which I really needed.

In any case, I have a root partition for Ubuntu of 12 Gigabytes. My /home partition takes up the rest of the disk (aside from a small swap partition). This turned out to be fortunate as I had installation problems with 11.04 and I just reformatted the Ubuntu partition and my /home was untouched. The Virtualbox is inside my /home partition so that was unaffected by the update.

I guess it depends upon what you want from Win7 if to host it or dual boot it. In my case I tried both and had no particular advantage from the dual boot, so I hosted it inside Virtualbox.

Ilan
i much prefer dualboot. i didnt like the feel of a virtual machine. i havent used ubuntu all that long so its like. if i had to reinstall i wouldnt be very angry becuase ive barely installed like a lot of stuff on it. i just want ot know if it would be safe to just delete the whole extended partition of ubuntu then using that unallocated space to reinstall again.

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2011-05-01
> **xXxG0dzRagexXx said:**
> Personally i do n ot like the new 11.04 upgrade. there are i few things that right now i am missing. And im having a few problems like i can not move a window around the screen and can only minimize ant maximize. and Macbuntu is not working properly and i cant use desktop cube in Compiz. I want to downgrade and after looking in my position all i can do is to a complete reinstall of ubuntu. but i also am dual booting with windows 7. Anyways i did run in to a major problem becuase i ended up doing 2 installations of ubuntu becuase the first time my laptop died and after looking a gparted i noticed in my ubuntu Partition there definitely was a few issues. I had given ubuntu around 50 gigabytes. It is there but from the second install i guess it did something because through the install it acted like there was no ubuntu and when i was installing in the unallocated space it was like 56 giga bytes the first and second time. so i figured the first install was a no go. Now it seems the second install took twice the unallocated space. but this space said it was 56 but technically there was no unallocated space. it ended up shrinking my windows partition by 100 gigabyte. which i definitely did not one. since windows doesnt like it when something but its self shrinks its partition. now i want this extra 100 gigabytes given back to windows. and ubuntu to stay on this 5o gigabyte area. So finally my question here is how can i delete this extra 100 gigabyte partiton well no. i want the whole extended partition that ubuntu has created with both the installs. gone. then use the extra 150 gigs of unallocated space it hope fully will give me and give it about 60 of that unallocated space and resize the windows to take up the rest of the extra 90. i wanted to  know if i could delete this whole area and have everything work out how i want it. If you want to see a pic of my gparted and how my 2 installs happened please read the last few pages of this thread. ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1735964&page=5](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1735964&page=5)) you might get a little more BG information there. 

Sorry for the extra long post.

Sorry,I'd like to try to help but I got lost in the long post. Any chance you could break it in to sections so that your exact questions and final aims are a bit clearer?

Thanks.

---

### Post by xXxG0dzRagexXx on 2011-05-01
> **Megaptera said:**
> Sorry,I'd like to try to help but I got lost in the long post. Any chance you could break it in to sections so that your exact questions and final aims are a bit clearer?

Thanks.

yeah i thought about that. Well. i want to reinstall Ubuntu 10.10. and i wanted to know if i could possibly. delete the extended partition it made, and use some of the unallocated space left to reinstall again. im just not so sure its safe to delete a partition that holds a whole OS. so any chance you can shine some light on that? Also, i wanted to know since Ubuntu took up more space then i wanted (due to the double install) can i up size my windows 7 partition to take back all the memory Ubuntu took away from it?

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2011-05-01
> **xXxG0dzRagexXx said:**
> yeah i thought about that. Well. i want to reinstall Ubuntu 10.10. 
and i wanted to know if i could possibly. delete the extended partition it made, and use some of the unallocated space left to reinstall again.

im just not so sure its safe to delete a partition that holds a whole OS.
 
so any chance you can shine some light on that? 
Also, i wanted to know since Ubuntu took up more space then i wanted (due to the double install) can i up size my windows 7 partition to take back all the memory Ubuntu took away from it?

Yes you can delete a partition that holds a whole OS - best done from Live CD. Not sure about re-allocating that space to Windows 7 'cos it depends where those 2 partitions are on your disc in relation to each other - any chance of a screenshot of Gparted showing your disc layout?

---

### Post by a2j on 2011-05-01
I tried get use to Unity for couple of days... I'm back to gnome. :D

---

### Post by xXxG0dzRagexXx on 2011-05-01
> **Megaptera said:**
> Yes you can delete a partition that holds a whole OS - best done from Live CD. Not sure about re-allocating that space to Windows 7 'cos it depends where those 2 partitions are on your disc in relation to each other - any chance of a screenshot of Gparted showing your disc layout?

this is a screenshot of gparted.

---

### Post by Megaptera on 2011-05-01
Looks too complicated for me to advise you, let's see what others suggest.

---

### Post by An Sanct on 2011-05-01
Lemme se ... :) 

If I got your message correctly, you want to get more space for Windows and less for Ubuntu ...

If you are looking up for a complete reinstall of Ubuntu, that is the best way to go (knowing, that you haven't got a lot of personal data on your Ubuntu yet.). Also, Use 10.04 or 10.10, 11.04 is the most immature release I have ever seen from Canonical!

Okay, down to the facts: 
- A disk can only hold **4** primary partitions
- You had 4, deleted one and made a new one for Ubuntu
- You are dissatisfied with the current partition layout

From a Live CD/USB run gparted and:
- Delete the partitions, Ubuntu created, these would be SDA5, SDA6, SDA7 and SDA8 in your specific case all those are contained in SDA4, so you can simply delete that one.
- Expand the Windows partition to your liking.
- Reinstall Ubuntu (*note: no partitioning needed for that from the Live CD)

*more of the note ... There is a simple reason, in the installation, choose "Install alongside another Operating System" and in the partitioning page select (I don't remember the exact line...) something like "Install in the largest free space" - Free space, because there is no partition, SDA4 will be created again and there should be 2 partitions inside, one EXT4 and one SWAP (+/- a few Mb of unallocated space)

---

### Post by xXxG0dzRagexXx on 2011-05-01
SO you want me to boot from the Ubuntu install disk and Select try ubuntu and delete the whole extended partition? then resize the windows one? seems pretty easy. thank you for the help!

P.S Atleast im the only one who is not a fan of 11.04

---

### Post by oldfred on 2011-05-01
With gparted on the liveCD it will probably mount one or both swaps in the extended partition. You have to click on each swap and right click select swap off to remove little key/lock on extended partition.

If all the space is then unallocated I would use win7 to expand it partition. But I suggest you create a new NTFS partition for any data you want to share between windows & Ubuntu. It is best to only read from a windows system partition and have a separate "shared" partition. If you do that your windows may not have to be so large. Even some windows only users suggest configuring windows for a separate data partition so when you have to reinstall your data is separate (you still need to back up both windows & data). Your shared NTFS can be inside the extended also.

I suggest creating partitions in advance which required a little planning, but that saves you from the system automatically doing something you do not like.

For the Total space you want for Ubuntu:
Ubuntu's standard install is just / (root) & swap, but it is better to add another partition for /home:
1. 10-20 GB Mountpoint / primary or logical beginning ext4(or ext3)
2. all but 2 GB Mountpoint /home logical beginning ext3(or ext4)
3. 2 GB Mountpoint swap logical

Depending on how much memory you have you may not absolutely need swap but having some is still recommended. I do not hibernate (boots fast enough for me) but if hibernating then you need swap equal to RAM. And if dual booting with windows a shared NTFS partition is also recommended. But you usually cannot create that as part of the install, just leave some space. Or partition in advance (recommended).
One advantage of partitioning in advance is that the installer will use the swap space to speed up the install. Thanks Herman for the tip.
But, I like to have several 25GB roots if hard drive is large enough, I prefer separate /data over /home but that requires a little more configuration after the install to set up.
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome)

Good detailed install info, not as complex as it may seem due to lots of explanation.

Ubuntu Install steps - then choose guide, close to what you want.
[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/index.html](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/index.html)
Installs with good screenshots/examples:
[http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/p22.html](http://members.iinet.net.au/~herman546/p22.html)
Install with separate /home from aysiu
[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome)

If you want more info on using gparted:
GParted partitioning software - Full tutorial 
[http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/gparted.html](http://www.dedoimedo.com/computers/gparted.html)
Screenshots of using gparted
[http://www.howtoforge.com/partitioning_with_gparted](http://www.howtoforge.com/partitioning_with_gparted)

---

### Post by An Sanct on 2011-05-02
> **oldfred said:**
> But I suggest you create a new NTFS partition for any data you want to share between windows & Ubuntu. It is best to only read from a windows system partition and have a separate "shared" partition. If you do that your windows may not have to be so large. Even some windows only users suggest configuring windows for a separate data partition so when you have to reinstall your data is separate (you still need to back up both windows & data). Your shared NTFS can be inside the extended also.

I agree with that :) 100%, but I personally like "both systems" to see "both systems" (confusing?). 
Well, my point is, If windows will be able to "see" the drive and not know what is on it, it will prompt you to format it, since it is "blank"/unformatted to a stock Windows OS. This is a pain in the rear, specially, because you cannot hide the prompt and it will pop up every single time you touch that partition/disk ... doh! 
So I use the EXT2FS driver and behold, a miracle! Windows can read and even write* on EXT volumes! (*Use with caution)

> **xXxG0dzRagexXx said:**
> SO you want me to boot from the Ubuntu install disk and Select try ubuntu and delete the whole extended partition? then resize the windows one? seems pretty easy. thank you for the help!
Thats the general idea, rethink it and if it seems logical and secure, try it :) There is no magic behind partitioning, just simple rules, once you get a grip of them, everything is simple.

> **xXxG0dzRagexXx said:**
> P.S Atleast im the only one who is not a fan of 11.04
Nope ... I sign the "non-fan" formular any time ... As I've said before on this forum, "Natty is not *there* just yet". For instance, I had to copy and paste 3/4 of this post to Tomboy Notes with only the use of my mouse and reboot, to actually post it ... because my keyboard stopped working... :confused::confused::confused:

There are other things too, but it would be a useless rant. :)

---

### Post by xXxG0dzRagexXx on 2011-05-02
> **An Sanct said:**
> I agree with that :) 100%, but I personally like "both systems" to see "both systems" (confusing?). 
Well, my point is, If windows will be able to "see" the drive and not know what is on it, it will prompt you to format it, since it is "blank"/unformatted to a stock Windows OS. This is a pain in the rear, specially, because you cannot hide the prompt and it will pop up every single time you touch that partition/disk ... doh! 
So I use the EXT2FS driver and behold, a miracle! Windows can read and even write* on EXT volumes! (*Use with caution)


Thats the general idea, rethink it and if it seems logical and secure, try it :) There is no magic behind partitioning, just simple rules, once you get a grip of them, everything is simple.


Nope ... I sign the "non-fan" formular any time ... As I've said before on this forum, "Natty is not *there* just yet". For instance, I had to copy and paste 3/4 of this post to Tomboy Notes with only the use of my mouse and reboot, to actually post it ... because my keyboard stopped working... :confused::confused::confused:

There are other things too, but it would be a useless rant. :)

I had the same problem with not being able to use my keyboard. it was ridiculous and randomly i couldnt use my mouse either. i wouldn't be able to click on anything and had to force shutdown on my laptop 3 times because of it. i will try everyone's ideas now. I want this to be as simple as possible though. So i think before i try to set up several different partitions for /home and what not. I really just want to ENJOY ubuntu first. before i make it more complicated. Just wish i could replace windows altogether but sadly a lot of stuff i use for graphic design doesnt work as smooth as it does in windows.

---

### Post by An Sanct on 2011-05-03
I went through this thread again, to make sure I got the right picture of what you want.

I was assuming you want to reinstall Ubuntu and don't care about the current installation, since it was not personalized so much yet.

Please use Ubuntu 10.04 or 10.10 for the following...

Here is whats to do:
-Boot to this Live CD (10.04 or 10.10)
-use gparted to swap-off the active swap(s) on your disk
-delete SDA4 (Where the swaps and Ubuntu are)
**Edit:** -resize the windows partition as needed
-from within the Live CD, select install (on the desktop)
-Install alongside, 
-select the "largest continous free space"
or
-select advanced formatting, select the unallocated space and in the mount point drop-down select the "/" as the value (that would be root), tick the format check box, next to the selected partition and click continue/next

Enjoy Ubuntu!

---

