---
title: "simple resolution problem"
date: 2008-05-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BrokeEnthusiast on 2008-05-16
Okay guys I have a small resolution problem and I have been reading for a couple of days trying to figure it out but I can seem to do it so...currently my desktop is at 800x600 or something like that and it is really irritating because a few days ago while trying to figure it out I started up the system and it randomly showed up at 1240x768.  After I installed some updates and restarted it was back to 800x600...

I have tried sudo gedit /ect/x11/xorg.conf and when that appears it is blank.  So I went to my system drive and did a search for it and all of the information appeared so I tried to edit it but it said that I didnt have permissions.  Anyways I was just wondering what I can do to get this thing solved.

I am using a Shuttle Sk43G that has onboard graphics, Apparently it uses the UniChrome drivers from what I have read.  Also I am using a MAG innovision 15'' crt monitor but I cant find the specs for the specific one that I have.
system - [http://eu.shuttle.com/archive/en/sk43g.htm](http://eu.shuttle.com/archive/en/sk43g.htm)

I appreciate your help, Im sure its something simple that I am overlooking.

---

### Post by hermes0710 on 2008-05-16
To edit the file use:
```
   sudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
```

This file can't be empty or else you would have no GUI. You probably had a mistake in the path (ex. your post doesn't have X11 with a capital). Anyway, you should post your xorg.conf here so that we can help you more

---

### Post by BrokeEnthusiast on 2008-05-16
Okay here is the story, I tried to be as in-depth as I could...its terribly hard to read with things so big in a small area so...

The first picture attached is what I typed into my terminal
The second picture is what showed up
The third picture is a search for the corg.conf file and when I opened it is what is below


Okay here is my xorg.conf file:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"OpenChrome"
	Busid		"PCI:1:0:0"
	Driver		"openchrome"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

---

### Post by BrokeEnthusiast on 2008-05-17
Anyone?

---

### Post by pietjanjaap on 2008-05-18
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
Here your xorg will be repaired, videocard and monitor will be checked.

If this does not work then go to safe mode, choose 4e (is same as above.


then reboot, install video driver.


openchrome wat is this, did you install something different ?

---

