---
title: "Partition Question"
date: 2007-05-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-05-11
I currently have these partitions:

sda1 = ntfs
sda2 = extended 
sda5 = ntfs
sda6 = ntfs
sda7 = ext3 /home
sda8 = ext3 /root
sda9 = ext3 /swap

I have cleared out the contents of sda6, and would like to delete that partition and give the space to /home.  I know how to boot with gparted live cd to do this.

My concern is that the partition names/numbers will change, and then what will happen?  Do I have to edit /boot/menu.lst before booting from the gparted cd and re-partitioning, or???

Grub is currently on sda8, but I am leaving that partition alone, in terms of size and placement on the hard disk.

Many thanks for any assistance.

-merlin

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2007-05-11
Do you have [LVM]("http://tldp.org/HOWTO/LVM-HOWTO/benefitsoflvmsmall.html")?

If you do it will be that much simpler, otherwise I think it would be easier for you to simply format the partition as ext3 or what ever you wish to format it as, mount it in some place like /mnt/home2 and use symbolic links to add a directory path to your home folder

storage -> /mnt/home2

($ ln -s /mnt/home2 linkname)

A symbolic link will behave just a real folder except it would point to your new partition. This way you wouldn't have to worry about the partition numbers changing.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-05-11
I do not have LVM, but can I format this partition (sda6) as ext3 and then use it for storage of folders and files that are not used very often?

In some ways it would be better not to have it as part of /home, which would then become fairly cluttered with folders.

If so, how do I mount it, and can this be done from gparted after formatting?

Also, I am wanting to shrink sda5 (one of the ntfs partitions), and add the space to sda6.  Will this cause problems with my current setup?

Thanks very much!

-merlin

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2007-05-11
> I do not have LVM, but can I format this partition (sda6) as ext3 and then use it for storage of folders and files that are not used very often?

You can, in fact I have done the very same. I have /home and then rest of the available space in /media/attic. I use symbolic links to point to some directories in there for fast access.

> In some ways it would be better not to have it as part of /home, which would then become fairly cluttered with folders.

If so, how do I mount it, and can this be done from gparted after formatting?

After you have formatted the disk in Gparted you can set the mount point for it like this:

First enter the following command into a terminal:

sudo vol_id -u /dev/sda6

This will provide you with the volume ID you need.
Next do this:

sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/fstab

The file that opens in Text Editor will look something like this:

```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/hda6 :
UUID=268f83be-823f-46db-b117-a9d8d2305db5 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/hda5 :
UUID=4ec458ae-1b73-48b6-b194-fca0c19cb7d4 /boot ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hdb6 :
UUID=74c97692-2333-4d9e-abcd-a107904db32d /home ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hdb7 :
UUID=e59baba9-e9ef-4a7d-b589-16c96325d1b9 /media/attic ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hda1 :
UUID=9ef259fd-f471-4516-a082-aa49ee21f50d /mnt/windows ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/hdb5 :
UUID=90a777a6-d2f7-4923-ae31-cec147d97f11 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/hdc /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
```

You can create a new entry, or edit the existing entry like so:

#Entry for /dev/sda6
UUID= what ever the vol_id command gave you for sda6 /your/new/mountpoint ext3 defaults 0 2

After you have edited the file, save it and then make sure the folder you mount the partition at exists. For example if you mount the partition in /mnt/storage there has to be a /mnt/storage!
If a folder does not exist you can create one using sudo mkdir /path/folder.

Now after you reboot the new file system should be accessible from the mount point you spesified!

> Also, I am wanting to shrink sda5 (one of the ntfs partitions), and add the space to sda6. Will this cause problems with my current setup?

Resizing partitions is possible in Gparted but it's always risky so I would backup everything you have on the partitions in question.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-05-11
Hi.  Followed your directions, and now I have sda6 and 7.  I presume sda8 is showing up as filesystem in Thunar and Nautilus.  But I cannot view sda6 or 7 without opening filesystem/media.

Also, sda6 does not show up in System/Administration/System Monitor/File Systems, but sda7 shows up three times -- as / , /home and /media/sda7.

The size listed as / is different from the other two, and in that respect, all are correct.

Perhaps I need to set up a mount point for sda6?  But sda7 does not seem to have one.

Here is fstab --

```

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=a961b624-ed15-4878-b66f-bb2d007b74a4 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=1EB88F62B88F36F5 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=18082DAD082D8B38 /media/sda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=d24818f9-d857-47bd-b851-4d75d0c54252 /media/sda6 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=74ea0d79-f0a5-4381-a98d-08258758e696 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda7 /home ext3 defaults 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda7 /media/sda7 ext3 defaults 0 1

```

Any ideas?

Many thanks!

-merlin

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-05-11
After numerous edits to fstab and reboots, things seem to be better.  At least now System/Administration/System Monitor/File Systems shows all the partitions except /swap, which I thought I defined as sda9.

It is listed, however, when I enter sudo fdisk -lu in a terminal.

But I still cannot access sda6 with thunar and nautilus except at /media/sda6, even though I thought I specified a mount point in fstab.

Here is the current fstab:

> 
proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=a961b624-ed15-4878-b66f-bb2d007b74a4 /home ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=74ea0d79-f0a5-4381-a98d-08258758e696 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=1EB88F62B88F36F5 /media/sda1 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=18082DAD082D8B38 /media/sda5 ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=d24818f9-d857-47bd-b851-4d75d0c54252 /mnt/storage ext3 defaults 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda9 :
UUID=68313a8e-5d21-43d6-b759-099c3f6de0f0 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto 0 0
/dev/sda7 /home ext3 defaults 0 0
/dev/sda8 / ext3 defaults 0 0
/dev/fd0 /media/floppy0 auto rw,user,noauto 0 0


Perhaps the best way to resolve these problems is to create symlinks, but I need some help with that.

It has certainly been an accelerated learning process....

Many thanks!

-merlin

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2007-05-12
Sorry for my late reply, I've been busy having a life. ;)

Looking at your latest fstab it seems to me like you have some double entries, like these:

```
# Entry for /dev/sda7 :
UUID=a961b624-ed15-4878-b66f-bb2d007b74a4 /home ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

and

/dev/sda7 /home ext3 defaults 0 0
```

```
# Entry for /dev/sda8 :
UUID=74ea0d79-f0a5-4381-a98d-08258758e696 / ext3 defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1

and

/dev/sda8 / ext3 defaults 0 0
```

You are having trouble accessing /mnt/storage which you have defined like so:

```
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=d24818f9-d857-47bd-b851-4d75d0c54252 /mnt/storage ext3 defaults 0 2
```

If you browse to the /mnt folder using Thunar or Nautilus does it contain the folder 'storage'?
If it does is the UUID entry in the above the same the command 'sudo vol_id -u /dev/sda6' returns?
If the folder doesn't exist, you must create it before you can mount a file system there!

You can create the folder 'storage' into /mnt using Nautilus or on the command line with the mkdir command.
Notice that Linux file names are case sensitive, so Storage and storage are different filenames!

Other than this I'm not sure what could be wrong, your fstab entry for sda6 seems valid.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2007-05-12
Hi, and thanks again for your assistance.

I have created /mnt/storage, and that folder only contains lost+found.  And the permissions for lost+found are owner root-read and write, and no other rights even for group root.

But in /media/sda6, all of the folders and files that I have copied to that partition appear, and are readable and writeable.  Strange....

As for the double fstab entries, which can be deleted?

As I mentioned, System/Administration/System Monitor/File Systems is showing everything correctly, and /mnt/storage as the directory for /dev/sda6.

And the UUID entry for sda6 is correct -- I just checked it again to be sure.

Another question:  looks like the entries for the three ext3 partitions are a bit different.  sda7 and sda8 have defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1, whilst sda6 has defaults 0 2.  Might this be causing difficulties?

Ain't computers fun!!!!

-merlin

---

### Post by blueturtl on 2007-05-14
> I have created /mnt/storage, and that folder only contains lost+found. And the permissions for lost+found are owner root-read and write, and no other rights even for group root.

But in /media/sda6, all of the folders and files that I have copied to that partition appear, and are readable and writeable. Strange....

According to the latest fstab you posted you have sda6 mounted only in /mnt/storage, therefore the folder /media/sda6 is a regular file location that exists on the root partition. sda6 is successfully mounted because the root of every filesystem contains the folder lost+found which you said you find in /mnt/storage. If you have trouble accessing /mnt/storage you can always modify the permissions by going into that folder:

cd /mnt/storage
sudo chmod o+rw .

This will allow everyone to read and write to /mnt/storage.

> As for the double fstab entries, which can be deleted?

I would probably delete the ones that are without the UUID entry for the following reason: each file system has it's own unique UUID. If file systems are moved or created the device numbers can indeed change (eg. the partition that is now sda6 could become sda5 or something of the sort). You can probably see what would happen if the previous mount point of sda5 would now contain sda6 and so forth. Anyway, when the filesystems in fstab are defined with their UUID instead of their physical location (/dev/something) altering them or adding new systems won't change their mount points!

> Another question: looks like the entries for the three ext3 partitions are a bit different. sda7 and sda8 have defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1, whilst sda6 has defaults 0 2. Might this be causing difficulties?

Nah, if you look at my fstab in a previous post you'll see the exact same thing there and I haven't had any problems.

> Ain't computers fun!!!!

I'm glad your attitude is what it is. So many angry and frustrated people on these forums. :)
Keep fiddlin, you'll get it right eventually.

edit:

A quick howto on symbolic links. A symbolic link is a file that points to another file or folder on your hard-drive. Using symbolic links has the advantage of bringing closer files that might be behind a lengthy directory path. It also has the advantage of avoiding duplicates (if you need the same file in two places).

Demo: you have the folder /mnt/storage which you would like to appear in your own home folder as the folder 'storage'.
Open up a terminal (this will automatically open in your home directory).
Now enter the command
```
ln -s /mnt/storage/ storage
```

You should now have a link that goes by the name storage in your home folder that actually points to /mnt/storage!
A symbolic link can be deleted like a regular file (do not worry, the folders or files it points to will remain).

---

