---
title: ".....just asking for a cut and paste ...."
date: 2010-09-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by subcook on 2010-09-09
so here is the deal,

triple boot opensuse 11.3, win7, and ubutnu 10.3-LTS  all 64bit

windows, of course installed first.  I am wiping all linux partitions and starting from scratch.

I will be installing ubuntu and than opensuse, strictly because I strongly do not like grub2.

I have attempted this a few times and just cannot seem to get the menu.lst menu entry (grub legacy) correct to get into ubuntu.  Though I am a new linux user, I feel that I have a great handle on bootloaders and how they work.  

Would someone  who dual boots suse and ubuntu while using opensuse's (grub legacy) bootloader be so kind as to cut and paste their successful boot menu?????   I have tried the opensuse forums and they do nothing but fail me.


....and since we're on the topic,  I have intentions of having ubuntu and opensuse share a /home partition.     Again, I am new and don't even really know the right questions to ask, at this point I am thinking that it will be as easy to setup during installation as it would to set them up sharing a swap partition.  If there is anything that someone could advice me to do, or not to do, please let me know.   I just don't have the knowledge to ask the question more specifically, and i truly , truly do apologize for that, and any frustrations anyone has experienced while reading this thread...

Thanks in advance to all



-Cheers

---

### Post by zuerston on 2010-09-09
Here is better deal,format the whole drive and install Ubuntu and forget that M$ crap and the other linux,what are you trying to do? go nuts?? Its also fun to use your computer once in a while instead of installing all day every day! check it out man. :p

---

### Post by corrytonapple on 2010-09-09
So you are after GRUB legacy? If so, you need to install it and purge GRUB 2. I will look for a how to of that now.

---

### Post by subcook on 2010-09-09
corrytonapple,

If there is a way to install legacy onto 10.4 and just not use grub2 I'm game.   

grub2 is not favorable to me.

again,  I thank you for your efforts kind sir......


-Cheers

---

### Post by 73ckn797 on 2010-09-09
Look here for possible answer: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298932](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1298932)

---

### Post by NearlyALaugh on 2010-09-09
Here's the official Ubuntu documentation on reverting to GRUB legacy:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Uninstalling%20GRUB%202](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2#Uninstalling%20GRUB%202)

Also, sharing a /home partition between distributions is no problem—I've done it between Ubuntu and Debian—but you should choose different usernames (e.g., subcook and subcook1) otherwise programs from one distribution will overwrite settings from the other.

---

### Post by abdusamed on 2010-09-09
my recommendation... stick with one linux os at a time.. in my experience..running two linux os can be catastrophic. Install VM in ubuntu and from thereon after, install any linux os you want on it to try it. 


Also, you might want to look at BURG,,,,

---

### Post by subcook on 2010-09-09
abdusamed,

I completely understand your recommendation,  I guessing your relating to dependancy issues.  I'm looking to share the /home file only,  but again.. I'm not clear at all what I'm getting into so any information your willing to throw out there is welcome,  been playing with Linux since 2/2010, and loving it.

-cheers

---

### Post by subcook on 2010-09-09
Nearlyalaugh,

Thank you for your efforts and advice.  simple things like make two user names I would have not thought of..... so thank you for that advice also.....  You have been a great help....thanks!!!



-Cheers

---

### Post by subcook on 2010-09-09
Though, I must ask....


And this is only because I have a family member who is in the same situation.....


...the only difference is, they want to keep grub2 from ubuntu, and can't (we can't) get the proper way to get a win7/opensuse/ubuntu (installed in that order) grub2 menu entry to boot nto opensuse.  We know its possible, but even going through the grub2 command line, the efforts have been fruitless......

If you are dual booting ubuntu w/ grub2, and opensuse, but booting from ubuntu's grub2 menu, would you be so kind as to copy and paste your /boot/grub/grub.cfg file, or even a modified /etc/grub.d/40_custom file...

....I'm just hoping to get a real life example (or template) to go from.......


...Again, thank you to all...


-Cheers

---

### Post by NearlyALaugh on 2010-09-09
Running multiple distributions is perfectly safe as long as you keep their files separate. Install each into its own / partition, and use different usernames so the home partitions don't get overwritten.

For a while I triple-booted Windows XP, Ubuntu, and Debian across five partitions (smallest to largest):

Shared Linux swap
Windows XP
Debian /
Ubuntu /
Shared /home

Using a virtual machine works okay, but it's slower on older computers. It's great for toying with different operating systems and live CDs, but not as great if you're gonna be using them a lot.

---

### Post by MacinViLLe on 2010-09-09
Seems like the problem has been already solved, very nice :)

I also have the need to have different kinds of OS i my computer, so I installed VirtualBox in my Windows 7. So right now I have Windows 7, Ubuntu 10.04, CentOS 4.8 and Fedora 13 in my computer, and the first 3 are currently active. 

I know it has nothing to do with your GRUB issue, but the point is I can still use Ubuntu and any OS's I like without being hassled by any bootloader.

---

### Post by NearlyALaugh on 2010-09-09
> **subcook said:**
> they want to keep grub2 from ubuntuUse a Live CD to install your bootloader of choice to the master boot record. See this how-to:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows#Recovery%20Using%20the%20Ubuntu%20Desktop/Live%20CD%20%28RECOMMENDED%29](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows#Recovery%20Using%20the%20Ubuntu%20Desktop/Live%20CD%20%28RECOMMENDED%29)

The process should be similar if not identical with OpenSuSe.

Edit: Actually you don't need the Live CD at all. Just boot into your chosen distribution and run [grub-install](http://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/hardy/man8/grub-install.8.html) on your master partition (e.g., /dev/sda) per the instructions. Just be sure to read up on it before jumping in. If you mess up, you *will* need to use a live CD!

---

### Post by subcook on 2010-09-10
Thanks for the help and references everyone!!!   Its been a great help!!!!!



-Cheers

---

