---
title: "Restore original GRUB"
date: 2007-05-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by canadianwriterman on 2007-05-29
I have Ubuntu as my main OS and later installed Kubuntu on another partition. Of course GRUB is being fed by the menu.lst in Kubuntu. Now I want to delete Kubuntu and go back to Ubuntu as the only OS on the system. How do I restore GRUB to its original, with info being picked up from the menu.lst in Ubuntu. Thanks.

---

### Post by canadianwriterman on 2007-05-29
Bump

I would hate to have to reinstall Feisty completely just to get GRUB picking up information from the old menu.lst. GRUB works fine, it's just that it was installed by the 2nd install.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-05-29
You can use the live cd:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=224351)

---

### Post by gdoermann on 2007-05-29
I'm very new to Linux as well, but I have been dealing with the same problem.  I have read that if you make a boot partition and have the computer boot off that partition than you can edit the files in the boot partition and change operating systems much easier (even after you delete a distro).  I don't really know how to make the partition the main boot partition except by installing a new operating system.

I have a very similar question, I just reinstalled Windows XP, which removes the GRUB boot loader (or at least disables it).  I did not want to reinstall Ubuntu (as I had not backed up a few things such as e-mail).  Instead I installed Fedora (to test it out), and have the GRUB boot loader working (for Fedora and XP).  I know which partition Ubuntu is on, but it won't load it with the settings I have entered.  The following is the menu.lst file:

# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd0,5)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/sda6
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/sda
default=1
timeout=15
splashimage=(hd0,5)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora Core (2.6.20-1.2948.fc6)
	root (hd0,5)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.20-1.2948.fc6 ro root=LABEL=/ rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.20-1.2948.fc6.img
title Fedora Core (2.6.18-1.2798.fc6)
	root (hd0,5)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.18-1.2798.fc6 ro root=LABEL=/ rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.18-1.2798.fc6.img
[B]title Ubuntu
	rootnoverify (hd1,8 )
	chainloader +1[/B]
title Windows XP
	rootnoverify (hd0,1)
	chainloader +1

[An extra space was added after the hd1,8 so it didn't make this smiley 8).  Anyways, it makes since that it is not working... It is just looking at the partition and trying to load it in the wrong way.  Where do I need to point it to load the kernel and start Ubuntu?

---

### Post by gdoermann on 2007-05-29
Thanks confused57!

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-05-29
> **gdoermann said:**
> Thanks confused57!
Glad to help...if you want to boot Fedora from Ubuntu's grub on the mbr, you could use configfile:
[http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#1._Configfile](http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm#1._Configfile)

Added:  You would need to use grub.conf instead of menu.lst in your Fedora entry.

---

### Post by canadianwriterman on 2007-05-29
Thanks, confused57. The instructions in the link worked great. I didn't need the live CD, however; I just booted into Ubuntu (my first install) and used the terminal. When I rebooted, the old GRUB menu came up fine and the second install (Kubuntu) was not there. I was then able to delete to Kubuntu partitions and re-expand by first install partition. Everything's great.

---

### Post by confused57 on 2007-05-29
> **canadianwriterman said:**
> Thanks, confused57. The instructions in the link worked great. I didn't need the live CD, however; I just booted into Ubuntu (my first install) and used the terminal. When I rebooted, the old GRUB menu came up fine and the second install (Kubuntu) was not there. I was then able to delete to Kubuntu partitions and re-expand by first install partition. Everything's great.

Thanks for the update...glad it worked.  Using this method to reinstall grub to the mbr has saved me on many occasions.

---

