---
title: "20.04.1 LxTerminal not using local keyboard setting"
date: 2020-10-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by David_Partridge on 2020-10-08
Started LxTerminal - using US keyboard even though preferences set for UK English!!! 

```
root@Charon:/home/amonra# cat /etc/default/keyboard
# Check /usr/share/doc/keyboard-configuration/README.Debian for
# documentation on what to do after having modified this file.

# The following variables describe your keyboard and can have the same
# values as the XkbModel, XkbLayout, XkbVariant and XkbOptions options
# in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.

XKBMODEL="pc105"
XKBLAYOUT="gb"
XKBVARIANT="intl"
XKBOPTIONS=""



```

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2020-10-08
Does the same thing happen if you are using your user account in terminal instead of root?

Your user preferences may not apply to root unless the whole OS was installed having chosen those settings.

---

### Post by David_Partridge on 2020-10-09
The system was originally installed using UK English and yes, it's the same for my user account

---

### Post by ActionParsnip on 2020-10-09
As your own user account, what is the output of:
```

env

```
Thanks

---

### Post by David_Partridge on 2020-10-10
```
amonra@Charon:~$ env
SHELL=/bin/bash
QT_ACCESSIBILITY=1
COLORTERM=truecolor
XDG_CONFIG_DIRS=/etc/xdg/xdg-Lubuntu:/etc/xdg:/etc:/usr/share
XDG_SESSION_PATH=/org/freedesktop/DisplayManager/Session0
XDG_MENU_PREFIX=lxqt-
GTK_IM_MODULE=ibus
LANGUAGE=en_GB:en
QT4_IM_MODULE=ibus
MANDATORY_PATH=/usr/share/gconf/Lubuntu.mandatory.path
SSH_AUTH_SOCK=/tmp/ssh-naV7nJJIP8B2/agent.76020
XDG_DATA_HOME=/home/amonra/.local/share
XDG_CONFIG_HOME=/home/amonra/.config
XMODIFIERS=@im=ibus
DESKTOP_SESSION=Lubuntu
LXQT_SESSION_CONFIG=session
SSH_AGENT_PID=76092
XDG_SEAT=seat0
PWD=/home/amonra
LOGNAME=amonra
XDG_SESSION_DESKTOP=Lubuntu
QT_QPA_PLATFORMTHEME=lxqt
XDG_SESSION_TYPE=x11
GPG_AGENT_INFO=/run/user/1000/gnupg/S.gpg-agent:0:1
XAUTHORITY=/home/amonra/.Xauthority
XDG_GREETER_DATA_DIR=/var/lib/lightdm-data/amonra
GDM_LANG=en_GB
HOME=/home/amonra
LANG=en_GB.UTF-8
LS_COLORS=rs=0:di=01;34:ln=01;36:mh=00:pi=40;33:so=01;35:do=01;35:bd=40;33;01:cd=40;33;01:or=40;31;01:mi=00:su=37;41:sg=30;43:ca=30;41:tw=30;42:ow=34;42:st=37;44:ex=01;32:*.tar=01;31:*.tgz=01;31:*.arc=01;31:*.arj=01;31:*.taz=01;31:*.lha=01;31:*.lz4=01;31:*.lzh=01;31:*.lzma=01;31:*.tlz=01;31:*.txz=01;31:*.tzo=01;31:*.t7z=01;31:*.zip=01;31:*.z=01;31:*.dz=01;31:*.gz=01;31:*.lrz=01;31:*.lz=01;31:*.lzo=01;31:*.xz=01;31:*.zst=01;31:*.tzst=01;31:*.bz2=01;31:*.bz=01;31:*.tbz=01;31:*.tbz2=01;31:*.tz=01;31:*.deb=01;31:*.rpm=01;31:*.jar=01;31:*.war=01;31:*.ear=01;31:*.sar=01;31:*.rar=01;31:*.alz=01;31:*.ace=01;31:*.zoo=01;31:*.cpio=01;31:*.7z=01;31:*.rz=01;31:*.cab=01;31:*.wim=01;31:*.swm=01;31:*.dwm=01;31:*.esd=01;31:*.jpg=01;35:*.jpeg=01;35:*.mjpg=01;35:*.mjpeg=01;35:*.gif=01;35:*.bmp=01;35:*.pbm=01;35:*.pgm=01;35:*.ppm=01;35:*.tga=01;35:*.xbm=01;35:*.xpm=01;35:*.tif=01;35:*.tiff=01;35:*.png=01;35:*.svg=01;35:*.svgz=01;35:*.mng=01;35:*.pcx=01;35:*.mov=01;35:*.mpg=01;35:*.mpeg=01;35:*.m2v=01;35:*.mkv=01;35:*.webm=01;35:*.ogm=01;35:*.mp4=01;35:*.m4v=01;35:*.mp4v=01;35:*.vob=01;35:*.qt=01;35:*.nuv=01;35:*.wmv=01;35:*.asf=01;35:*.rm=01;35:*.rmvb=01;35:*.flc=01;35:*.avi=01;35:*.fli=01;35:*.flv=01;35:*.gl=01;35:*.dl=01;35:*.xcf=01;35:*.xwd=01;35:*.yuv=01;35:*.cgm=01;35:*.emf=01;35:*.ogv=01;35:*.ogx=01;35:*.aac=00;36:*.au=00;36:*.flac=00;36:*.m4a=00;36:*.mid=00;36:*.midi=00;36:*.mka=00;36:*.mp3=00;36:*.mpc=00;36:*.ogg=00;36:*.ra=00;36:*.wav=00;36:*.oga=00;36:*.opus=00;36:*.spx=00;36:*.xspf=00;36:
XDG_CURRENT_DESKTOP=LXQt
LXQT_DEFAULT_OPENBOX_CONFIG="/etc/xdg/xdg-Lubuntu/openbox/lxqt-rc.xml"
VTE_VERSION=6003
XDG_SEAT_PATH=/org/freedesktop/DisplayManager/Seat0
GTK_CSD=0
CLUTTER_IM_MODULE=ibus
XDG_CACHE_HOME=/home/amonra/.cache
LESSCLOSE=/usr/bin/lesspipe %s %s
XDG_SESSION_CLASS=user
TERM=xterm-256color
GTK_OVERLAY_SCROLLING=0
DEFAULTS_PATH=/usr/share/gconf/Lubuntu.default.path
LESSOPEN=| /usr/bin/lesspipe %s
USER=amonra
DISPLAY=:0
SHLVL=1
QT_IM_MODULE=ibus
XDG_VTNR=7
XDG_SESSION_ID=c16
XDG_RUNTIME_DIR=/run/user/1000
QT_PLATFORM_PLUGIN=lxqt
XDG_DATA_DIRS=/usr/share/Lubuntu:/usr/local/share:/usr/share:/var/lib/snapd/desktop:/var/lib/snapd/desktop
BROWSER=firefox
PATH=/home/amonra/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games:/snap/bin
GDMSESSION=Lubuntu
SAL_USE_VCLPLUGIN=qt5
DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS=unix:path=/run/user/1000/bus
_=/usr/bin/env
amonra@Charon:~$ 



```

I don't know if it is relevant or not, but I'm seeing errors like this in the log:

```
Error activating login1 session: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.NotSupported: Operation not supported


```

---

### Post by David_Partridge on 2020-10-12
Bump ... Anyone have any idea what's going wrong here?

It seems that QTerminal is similarly afflicted - IOW all console apps.

D.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-10-12
A basic issue is, that you seem to be building a FrankenLubuntu with new elements from 20.04, but still clinging to parts from 18.04.

Yes, it's painful, but the jump from LXDE to LXQt is there, and you'll have to get to terms with the new environment, which means no update, but a clean install.

The keyboard layout is found under:
Preferences -> LXQt Setting -> Keyboard and Mouse -> Keyboard Layout

I highly recommend that you do such setups/changes using the desktop environment. Otherwise internal system parameters tend to get out of sync. The same applies for program installation/removal which should be done using Muon.
The CLI has its place when tuning system-relevant parameters that can't be accessed through the desktop, but not for stuff like this. It tends to bring follow-on problems.

Spoken by a +1 year Lubuntu/LXQt user after scores of re-installs due to knowing "just enough to be dangerous".

Cheers.

---

### Post by David_Partridge on 2020-10-12
I'm not building Franken anything - I'm just doing a normal system upgrade from one LTS release of a system to the next LTS release.

>which means no update, but a clean install.

Sorry but that is rubbish!  An upgrade from one release to another should be perfectly simple to do and **should just work**!

As for clinging to parts from 18.04 - WHY - why should I not continue to use LxTerminal?  What says I need to change to QTerminal just because of it's the latest fashion statement.  It appears you didn't notice that ***I clearly stated that QTerminal is similarly afflicted by this problem***.

Pardon me - you say I now need to use this trendy update manager called Muon?  Pardon me again but ***WHY***?  Pray tell what on earth is wrong with dpkg and apt-get which is after all what Muon invokes under the covers?

You should NEVER have to do a clean install to update releases!

We learnt how to do this sort of thing right DECADES ago (I speak here with 40 plus years experience of operating system support and later development).

If an upgrade can't be done without a fresh install the upgrade was written by people who either haven't a clue or don't give a darn (I'm not sure which is worse).

Clearly some of the more recent entrants to the Open Source development community don't have the necessary skills to do it right.

The system I upgraded was very much setup for UK English regional settings and input methods (i.e. UK keyboard).

And yes, the LXQt Keyboard Preference was set to US  English!  WHY would you do that on a system that was clearly configured  for UK English?

The fact that the LXQt has keyboard/regional settings that are *independent* of or *override* the system settings is arguably bad, but it is unacceptable that they were set to US English after an upgrade to a UK English system!

Why would the LXQt team define their own settings on top of those that Qt provides that inherit from the system settings.   That's just doesn't seem like the right way to do it.  I speak here as a Qt developer who does work with Qt localisation and internationalisation all the time!!

Shame on someone!

There just SHOULD NOT be any way to have the LXQt language/input mechanisms independently of the system settings which it should inherit from.   LXQt GUI settings for these things should just change the underlying system settings which is perfectly fair and reasonable

PAH - I am so NOT impressed!

David

---

### Post by CelticWarrior on 2020-10-12
> [COLOR=#000000]I'm just doing a normal system upgrade from 18.04 to 20.04 which should be perfectly simple to do and should just work![/COLOR]

No, it absolutely SHOULDN'T if you're talking about Lubuntu as explained already. Please read: [https://lubuntu.me/focal-released/](https://lubuntu.me/focal-released/)
Quoting:

> ***Note***[COLOR=#555555][FONT=Ubuntu], due to the extensive changes required for the shift in desktop environments, the Lubuntu team does not support upgrading from 18.04 or below to any greater release. [/FONT][/COLOR]**Doing so will result in a broken system.**[COLOR=#555555][FONT=Ubuntu] If you are on 18.04 or below and would like to upgrade, please do a fresh install.[/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-10-12
You can lie on the floor, scream and throw a tantrum all you like. And end every statement with an exclamation point.
I'm the wrong recipient. I'm just a normal Lubuntu user trying to help.

If this is so terrible, vote with your feet.
Go to Ubuntu, Kubuntu, Xubuntu, whatever, it's not my problem.

I started with 18.10 Lubuntu/LXQt because I like the desktop and have thus not run into this issue. It works perfectly.

'Nuff said, I'll ignore you in the future. Being shouted at when trying to help is not really a pleasure.

Bye.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-10-12
> **David_Partridge said:**
> I'm not building Franken anything - I'm just doing a normal system upgrade from one LTS release of a system to the next LTS release.


Lubuntu does not support LXDE on any release after Lubuntu 18.04 LTS.

The [Lubuntu 20.04 LTS release notes]("https://lubuntu.me/focal-1-released/") clearly states

> ***Note***, due to the extensive changes required  for the shift in desktop environments, the Lubuntu team does not support  upgrading from 18.04 or below to any greater release. **Doing so will  result in a broken system**. If you are on 18.04 or below and would like  to upgrade, please do a fresh install.


> **David_Partridge said:**
> 
Sorry but that is rubbish!  An upgrade from one release to another should be perfectly simple to do and **should just work**!


I disagree, the Lubuntu team wrote notes trying to make the 18.04 to 18.10 upgrade path work, however in testing it had issues where users had made changes to their configs, or used their systems differently (different package combinations). Yes it's possible (my own system is thus upgraded), but I had a load of problems, as did others, and why the upgrade path dropped to the *unsupported* status with warnings about problems.  (FYI: *I had solved my own problems in about three weeks, had I have known it would take that long, that much effort, I'd have loved to have re-installed! Yes it was working in hours, but getting rid of little glitches took time to diagnose, track down & correct..*)

> **David_Partridge said:**
> 
As for clinging to parts from 18.04 - WHY - why should I not continue to use LxTerminal?  What says I need to change to QTerminal just because of it's the latest fashion statement.  It appears you didn't notice that ***I clearly stated that QTerminal is similarly afflicted by this problem***.


I suspect Qterminal may not be impacted, I don't have time to confirm, but I suspect you'll find the problem is your now broken system, and if Qterminal is used on a clean 20.04 system (even added on another Ubuntu *flavor*) it'll work correctly.  This is opinion only though.

> **David_Partridge said:**
> 
Pardon me - you say I now need to use this trendy update manager called Muon?  Pardon me again but ***WHY***?  Pray tell what on earth is wrong with dpkg and apt-get which is after all what Muon invokes under the covers?


Muon uses Qt libraries, where as Synaptic uses GTK+.  On a Qt base as used by modern Lubuntu, KDE, even future Ubuntu Studio releases - Muon is far more efficient than Synaptic (as uses desktop libraries rather than needing it's own to operate)

Myself I still prefer terminal, thus `apt` and like is my choice, and `aptitude` where I want a package manager, but Muon  beats Synaptic on a Qt base for efficiency for GUI users.
> **David_Partridge said:**
> 
You should NEVER have to do a clean install to update releases!


What was done is not uncommon. Upgrades from Ubuntu Studio past 20.04 are not supported, as it's switching from XFCE/GTK3 base to a Qt/(*not quite full KDE as missing the KF5*).  

The Ubuntu base of 18.04 will upgrade to 20.04, and the base will be fine, however the desktop & GUI will have issues due to breakage thus the clean install recommendation. In the end it's up to the user to decide, but they were warned they'll have breaks.

In my career (mostly closed-source), I've had to re-install many many times during upgrades. To me it's more normal than a simple *release-**upgrade*, though given recent QA-test installs have take me about 2mins, it's also far quicker to re-install than *release-upgrade*.  You can re-install without erasing user data, no change was made there (*a change has alas occurred upstream with the installation process, but it didn't impact focal/20.04*).

> **David_Partridge said:**
> 
We learnt how to do this sort of thing right DECADES ago (I speak here with 40 plus years experience of operating system support and later development).

If an upgrade can't be done without a fresh install the upgrade was written by people who either haven't a clue or don't give a darn (I'm not sure which is worse).


I disagree here. I've been using computers likely similar duration (cards, dumb terminals, before we had PCs or the IBM PC era).

Given upstream LXQt don't support the upgrade (*the LXDE devs joined with RazorQt devs creating the new LXQt desktop*), what you're asking for would be a ton of work, making an unsupported upstream path work given some parts of it are from RazorQt and incompatible with LXDE. 

(*FYI: Much of LXQt is identical, the desktop is handled by `pcmanfm-qt` in LXQt, a port by the same creator/dev (Pcman)  who created `pcmanfm` used by LXDE; however it's still not identical*)

It's an open-source project, if you don't like what is being done, step up & help the people doing the work. Everyone would love it to be better, but the people doing the work only have *limited* resources, especially time, and very few people step up and help.

---

### Post by David_Partridge on 2020-10-13
I wasn't getting at you. 

 I was bitching about the fact the the Lubuntu folks did something that meant a release upgrade wasn't a viable option.

In this day and age that is almost unforgivable.

My apologies if my comments offended.

David

---

### Post by David_Partridge on 2020-10-13
> **guiverc said:**
> You can re-install without erasing user data, no change was made there (*a change has alas occurred upstream with the installation process, but it didn't impact focal/20.04*).


Ouch - that sounds nasty.

David

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-10-13
> **David_Partridge said:**
> I wasn't getting at you. 

 I was bitching about the fact the the Lubuntu folks did something that meant a release upgrade wasn't a viable option.

In this day and age that is almost unforgivable.

My apologies if my comments offended.


I realize you weren't directing your comments at anyone, neither was I.
Nor was I offended, and I likewise do not intend offence.

The "*Lubuntu folks*" (*which includes myself, and others on this site*) did nothing at all to prevent the upgrade, nor anything to assist the upgrade. Upstream don't support it, we (Lubuntu *team*) tested it (*and it created problems for everyone*), thus we decided not to support it, and have documented that in every release starting with Lubuntu 18.10; ie. a notice that users should not use the upgrade (*changing desktop from LXDE to LXQt without re-install*).

> **David_Partridge said:**
> Ouch - that sounds nasty.
 

Just a fact of life. For years certain (re-)installs have had the option (*with specific parameters set*) to note your software, erase system directories, install the new release, then try and add back the additional packages previously installed but not included on the installation media (*if available for the new release from Ubuntu repositories*). It's a wonderful feature (*wrong tense*?).

It had limits (*esp. with software not found in repositories, which I'd have thought was self explanatory, eg. Qt4 is EOL as is python2, they were removed in 2019; but users may still want those EOL packages in a 20.04/focal release when they're no longer available*). Users filed bugs (*regularly*) which takes time to reply to, so the choice was made 'upstream' to remove that feature & reduce the burden on the project (*dealing with replying to user-expectation bugs*).  A fact of life, but disappointing for those of us that *knew about* & *loved* that feature of the install.

---

