---
title: "12.10 No longer seeing GPT NTFS partition"
date: 2013-02-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by woodsnake420 on 2013-02-17
I'm a pretty seasoned Ubuntu user.  Been running it for 10+ years on the majority of my machines, and just switched back to windows solely for a work laptop.  I'm proficient to the point of using Arch without and major problems.

I use a Mediasonic 4 Drive raid box.  2 2TB WD Green drives installed.  The drives are in Raid 1, and formatted as NTFS (I do use windows as mentioned, I couldn't get myself to have a full ext4 partition for that reason)

Worked fine, even across 2 computers. USB 2.0 and 3.0.  Was working fine yesterday even.  I might have done an apt-get update && apt-get upgrade but i don't know if that was the source of this problem.

No when plugging in, its recognized by lsblk, the disk itself is recognized as /dev/sdc, but its saying the partition table is invalid.  I tried 2 separate ubuntu 12.04 machines, USB 2.0, 3.0 and even dropped to a firewire input, they all say the same thing.

Here's the kicker, if I plug it into windows, it read's fine, Windows Disc Management tells me its healthy, and I can read all the files (Aren't I glad I kept it as NTFS) :)

I even did chkdsk /f on the drive, and tried re-plugging back into linux, no dice.

I am affeard I will lose whats on the array if I do anything too crazy, and since its working in windows, I can try and backup what I have to another drive in the mean time.

Long time lurker, first time poster.  ANybody got any pointers?  Can provide any diagnostics you need.

---

### Post by Zteam on 2013-02-17
Try out Testdisk it is usually very good for fixing damaged partiontables it does have support for GPT too.

Cheers :popcorn:

---

### Post by woodsnake420 on 2013-02-17
> **Zteam said:**
> Try out Testdisk it is usually very good for fixing damaged partiontables it does have support for GPT too.

Cheers :popcorn:

Thank you sir.  Testdisk is exactly where I'm going.  Is it possible to ruin the data with it?  I'm backing up the important things off this drive hooked up to windows now before I start messing with anything. :)

---

### Post by Zteam on 2013-02-17
> **woodsnake420 said:**
> Thank you sir.  Testdisk is exactly where I'm going.  Is it possible to ruin the data with it?  I'm backing up the important things off this drive hooked up to windows now before I start messing with anything. :)

Yes it is possible, but unless you play with the disk geometry options and stuff you problably should be okey.

Reading the documenation is never a bad idea thought.;)

[http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk](http://www.cgsecurity.org/wiki/TestDisk)

---

