---
title: "11.10 Server - SFTP/SCP Help (WinSCP)"
date: 2011-11-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by FatMagic on 2011-11-17
Hello! Linux/Ubuntu "newb" here.

Here's my situation... I just setup a headless Ubuntu 11.10 Server on a new rig. Nothing else on the hard drive except 11.10. I installed only OpenSSH so I could PuTTY in and administer the server. In the config file, I changed the default port, and disallowed root access via PuTTY.

I can PuTTY in no problem. But I want to be able to do file management through WinSCP since it's faster & easier. When I connect with WinSCP using only user loging (the one I setup during the initial Ubuntu setup), and using the same port as PuTTY, -- it will not allow me to move, copy, edit, delete - or do any sort of file management. It keeps giving me the following error:

```
Permission denied.
Error code: 3
Error message from server: Permission denied
Request code: 13
```

Assumedly, that means the permissions are not setup right. I'm just not sure what to do. I'm such a newb at Linux that I don't know what setting or config I'm missing to allow this. I'm sure it's a simple fix.

**TLDR: How can I get WinSCP (SFTP?) to allow me to Read/Write/Delete files on my fresh Ubuntu 11.10 Server Install?**

Thank you!!

---

### Post by Doug S on 2011-11-18
Hi FatMagic, and welcome to Ubuntu forums.
With a fresh install of 11.10 server edition WinSCP should work just fine. Are you saying that you can not copy any file to any directory, including your home directory?
I would expect that you could copy files to your home folder. Due to default permissions settings, I would not expect that you could copy files to many, if not most, of the other folders.

---

### Post by FatMagic on 2011-11-18
Doug,

Thanks for the reply! That seems to be the issue. I can do anything in my "/home/username/" directory... but not outside of that, which is what I want to be able to do.

How do I enable permissions for my default/primary user to have access to the rest of the file system?

---

### Post by Doug S on 2011-11-18
I am not sure how to respond to your question. I would not recommend changing permissions from the default install settings. Yesterday, before my original reply, and while googling around about your error codes, I did see some information settings in WinSCP to allow su type copies, but I did not test such an approach (and you had mentioned you disabled root access).
I only use WinSCP to copy to and from folders in my home directory structure. I keep copies of all modified system configurations files and /var/www and such in my home folders. From terminal sessions, either locally or via ssh, I use scripts, with sudo or not as required, to copy stuff to the other system folders.
For permissions settings you could also see: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/FilePermissions)
I would also suggest a look over on the [security discussions forum ]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=338")and this [wiki]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BasicSecurity") that several contributers have been working hard on over the last few weeks.
I hope this helps.

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-11-18
.

---

### Post by FatMagic on 2011-11-18
Thanks guys for your responses.

I now understand! I have never worked with Linux, or understood the security behind it. I'm learning and coming to understand it better.

I have no problem leaving it inside my default "home/username" directory. I can easily work from there. I was initially working on some files outside that directory, but it is not required. I'm so used to the Windows system, so I applied the same thinking to this.

I will do exactly what you guys suggest. Thank you!

---

