---
title: "11.04 freeze"
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-04-30
Hi
upgraded to 1104 now my system freezes often when the screen saver comes on

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-04-30
Does it still freeze if you set the screen saver to "Blank Screen"?

When exactly does the freeze happen?

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-04-30
so far seems ok if I set to blank screen

---

### Post by ddknoll on 2011-04-30
My screen also freezes when the screensaver comes on.
It might be running into a deadlock, because the keyboard becomes unresponsive and I only have control over the mouse.

This problem occurs with a blank screensaver.

It seems to freeze for two occurrences:
1. If I am playing a fullscreen video.
2. If the screensaver runs for a longer period of time.

---

### Post by ceposta on 2011-05-01
I experience a very similar behaviour. When my laptop has been on for a while (still not sure exactly how long.... but when it sits idle for an hour or so) and I return to it, I cannot do anything... the UI has frozen completely except for the mouse. I am not even sure what to check (for logs or stack traces) to find out what happened. Any clues? The freezing of the UI is definitely repeatable. The only way to correct the problem is to hard-reset my laptop.

Any clues would be appreciated so I can figure this out. I'm running 64-bit Ubuntu Natty (11.04)

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-01
Hi all

Ok it is still doing it even with a blank screen saver, and after reading other posts on here I realise that it is not just freezing. If I play with the mouse the cursor appears and moves. However the screen is never refreshed. The only way out is a hard restart.

As others are having the same thing i'm thinking this is a bug but have no idea how to report it.

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-01
It will be helpful that anybody having this problem might post their computer specs, as well.

Start your own thread this is in general help.

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-01
Hi

Happy to post what ever is needed where ever it needs to be posted.

> It will be helpful that anybody having this problem might post their computer specs

not sure exactly what you need, but below is a summary taking from system info.

> 
-Computer-
Processor		: Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 3.00GHz
Memory		: 1015MB (492MB used)
Operating System		: Ubuntu 11.04
User Name		: 
Date/Time		: Sun 01 May 2011 02:04:24 AM EDT
-Display-
Resolution		: 1280x1024 pixels
OpenGL Renderer		: Unknown
X11 Vendor		: The X.Org Foundation
-Multimedia-
Audio Adapter		: ICH4 - Intel ICH6
-Input Devices-
 Power Button
 Power Button
 Dell Dell USB Keyboard
 Microsoft Basic Optical Mouse
-Printers (CUPS)-
Deskjet-3740		: <i>Default</i>
-SCSI Disks-
ATAPI DVD DUAL 8X4X12
ATA ST380013AS



> 
Start your own thread this is in general help. 

Where should I start it...?

Thanks

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-01
> **benlyboy said:**
> Hi

Happy to post what ever is needed where ever it needs to be posted.

not sure exactly what you need, but below is a summary taking from system info.

Where should I start it..Thanks

I wanted to see specs as that is a place to start. The original post was with the screen saver, which to me sounded like a low cpu and or memory in general. Your memory is certainly in a usable range, but another gig would probably make a difference, especially if your running all the compiz bling....etc. 

Also if it is a upgrade or a fresh install is helpful.

What happens when people pile into a thread it becomes extremely difficult to separate everything, as it is unlikely that every fix is the same.

Really I would like people to get it fixed if possible.

Your the OP though I was directing the new threads to the others.

Out of curiosity I looked at your other threads list I see immediately a need for a startup of a wine app at boot. You might install conky and set up a nice one to see what is being used, I suspect you may have some things running at startup you may not need.

---

### Post by ceposta on 2011-05-01
I would be happy to start a new thread, however, the more benlyboy describes his issue, the more it sounds exactly like mine:
> 
Ok it is still doing it even with a blank screen saver, and after  reading other posts on here I realise that it is not just freezing. If I  play with the mouse the cursor appears and moves. However the screen is  never refreshed. The only way out is a hard restart.

I experienced this after an upgrade, not fresh install.

[QUOTE]

SYSTEM INFORMATION
    Running Ubuntu Linux, the Ubuntu 11.04 (natty) release.
    GNOME: 2.32.1 (Ubuntu 2011-04-14)
    Kernel version: 2.6.38-8-generic (#42-Ubuntu SMP Mon Apr 11 03:31:24 UTC 2011)
    GCC: 4.5.2 (x86_64-linux-gnu)
    Xorg: 1.10.1 (19 April 2011  03:40:45PM) (19 April 2011  03:40:45PM)
    Hostname: postadev
    Uptime: 0 days 11 h 25 min

CPU INFORMATION
    GenuineIntel, Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Duo CPU     T5750  @ 2.00GHz
    Number of CPUs: 2
    CPU clock currently at 1000.000 MHz with 2048 KB cache
    Numbering: family(6) model(15) stepping(13)

MEMORY INFORMATION
    Total memory: 3955 MB
    Total swap: 199 MB

STORAGE INFORMATION
    SCSI device -  scsi0
        Vendor:  Optiarc  
        Model:  DVD RW AD-7563A  
    SCSI device -  scsi2
        Vendor:  ATA      
        Model:  ST9250827AS      
    SCSI device -  scsi5
        Vendor:  Generic- 
        Model:  Multi-Card       

HARDWARE INFORMATION
MOTHERBOARD
    Host bridge
        Intel Corporation Mobile PM965/GM965/GL960 Memory Controller Hub (rev 03)
    PCI bridge(s)
        Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 04) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
        Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 04) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
        Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 04) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
        Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev f4) (prog-if 01 [Subtractive decode])
        Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 1 (rev 04) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
        Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 2 (rev 04) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
        Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) PCI Express Port 3 (rev 04) (prog-if 00 [Normal decode])
        Intel Corporation 82801 Mobile PCI Bridge (rev f4) (prog-if 01 [Subtractive decode])
    
    ISA bridge
        Intel Corporation 82801HEM (ICH8M) LPC Interface Controller (rev 04)
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Device 0560
    IDE interface
        Intel Corporation 82801HBM/HEM (ICH8M/ICH8M-E) IDE Controller (rev 04) (prog-if 8a [Master SecP PriP])
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Device 0560

GRAPHIC CARD
    VGA controller
        Intel Corporation Mobile GM965/GL960 Integrated Graphics Controller (primary) (rev 03) (prog-if 00 [VGA controller])
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Device 0560

SOUND CARD
    Multimedia controller
        Intel Corporation 82801H (ICH8 Family) HD Audio Controller (rev 04)
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Device 0560

NETWORK
    Network controller
        Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG [Golan] Network Connection (rev 02)
        Subsystem: Intel Corporation PRO/Wireless 3945ABG Network Connection
    Ethernet controller
        Realtek Semiconductor Co., Ltd. RTL8101E/RTL8102E PCI Express Fast Ethernet controller (rev 01)
        Subsystem: Gateway 2000 Device 0560
[/QUTOTE]

Thanks!

---

### Post by NormanFLinux on 2011-05-01
Whether its a lowly Via C-7 processor or an Intel Duo processor, 11.04's hard drive performance is NOT acceptable. Prior versions of Ubuntu never froze the desktop.

There is something I don't get about it for Ubuntu ran fine on all kinds of hardware before.

---

### Post by vivace on 2011-05-01
very disappointed to be experiencing this. I have a relatively new PC with 8 gigs of ram and very fast processor and 10.10 ran beautifully. Now it freezes every time it goes to the screen saver!

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-01
Thanks for help

This all started with a update to 11.04 from 10.10.

The post you saw not really related to this. I was posting about the fact that there is now no wine or wine apps in the menu and i wanted to know why...

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-01
> **ceposta said:**
> I would be happy to start a new thread, however, the more benlyboy describes his issue, the more it sounds exactly like mine:
I experienced this after an upgrade, not fresh install.


I can appreciate that but it is forum policy to have your own thread this is equals your thread is all about you, not benlyboy's thread is all about you does this make sense.

You have to take a step back here and reflect and ask yourself I can follow this thread and have my own as the forum likes and actually have more of a chance of getting this fixed.

Many forum members wont help you without your own thread especially after being asked to do this.;)

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-01
I wish we could stop fighting over who's post it is, as it seems that 11.04 has a bug that is affecting more than one person. Can't we leave it at that and just try and work out how to fix it. :)

I say this just because it seems that we are all having the same problem. I may have posted first, but the other post indicate that it is not my system but the OS that's at fault. 

Thanks

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2011-05-01
> **benlyboy said:**
> I wish we could stop fighting over who's post it is, as it seems that 11.04 has a bug that is affecting more than one person. Can't we leave it at that and just try and work out how to fix it. :)

I say this just because it seems that we are all having the same problem. I may have posted first, but the other post indicate that it is not my system but the OS that's at fault. 

Thanks

Okay and I gave you an answer of the possibility of a problem; so where do we go from here, nobody else has answered. I recognize that this is a frustrating situation for you and I will repeat that personally I would like to see it fixed, I think those that help would feel the same way.

Best of luck to all of you it is a bummer when things don't work like you expect.;)

I will say though that using a cause and effect to link your problems together is flawed here; there are to many variables, and outliers.

---

### Post by LonelyAspie on 2011-05-01
The first time I notice the freezing when when I played Lincity-NG, it it was set as fullscreen (by default) and it would freeze because it the game actually started or the screen would go black. I have set it as a Window instead and haven't had a problem with it since.

My laptop also froze on the screen saver once, hasn't since then yet, but my Mom's computer does every time or almost. When she comes back to it, after being away from it for awhile. She would tell me that it froze and the computer would have to restarted.

Either a bug or some setting that needs to be changes in the graphics package I think. I do hope they manage to fix it soon.

Edit: I have disabled the screen saver for now, on my Mom's computer. It isn't that important to have one, since the monitor turns itself off when idle for a certain amount of time. Hopefully, it won't freeze, with the screen saver disabled.

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-05-01
count me as #3 having the same problem.

leave the laptop sitting idle for a while
screensaver starts up
goto use again and, screensaver stops/freezes, mouse pointer can move around, but laptop must be hard rebooted to get back working again.

kind of sucks, but these are the bugs that come with ubuntu... will be resolved in time... hopefully sooner than later.

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-05-02
> **LonelyAspie said:**
> I do hope they manage to fix it soon.
Has anyone reported this as a bug or identified it as already reported?

Nearest I can find is:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-screensaver/+bug/750280](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-screensaver/+bug/750280)
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-screensaver/+bug/756374](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-screensaver/+bug/756374)

These are what came up in the search:

[https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=freeze+screensaver+natty](https://launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bugs?field.searchtext=freeze+screensaver+natty)

The quickest route to getting bugs fixed (apart from fixing them ourselves ;)) is to nail the problem down to a specific area, add relevant information to the bug report and add yourself as being affected. Forum threads are great for establishing a pattern but it's the bug reports that are tracked.

---

### Post by LonelyAspie on 2011-05-02
I will report it, just I forget how. I think I type Ubuntu-Bug in run command.


Just an update, my laptop still freezes on the screensaver also, I heve disabled it for now,  becuase whenver I'm not using my laptop, I have it closed, an I have it set so the monitor turns itself off, when the it's closed. I recommend, if your computer freezes on screensavers, to disable it, and have it set so your screen turns itself off when idle (located in System>Preferences>Power Management)

---

### Post by r-senior on 2011-05-02
> **LonelyAspie said:**
> I will report it, just I forget how. I think I type Ubuntu-Bug in run command.
That's correct, passing the package name as a parameter, although in this case I suspect that one of those bug reports I listed is already what you need and you can mark yourselves as being affected?

Another thought that might narrow things down: do you get a freeze with the screensaver preview?

---

### Post by joshzam on 2011-05-02
My laptop appears to be suffering the same freezes after upgrading to 11.04. But I've got the screensaver turned off. Can anyone with this problem who has since turned off their screensaver to avoid freezing confirm that this has helped? I was thinking that something else may be causing the freezes...

---

### Post by LonelyAspie on 2011-05-02
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/775518](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xorg/+bug/775518)

Here's the link to the bug, assuming I'm allowed to put links in message, (forgive mii Admins, (and Mods), I forget).

---

### Post by joshzam on 2011-05-02
The solution here appears to have stopped the freezing in my case:
[http://forum.notebookreview.com/sager-clevo/573789-linux-kernel-2-6-38-sager-np8130-freeze-fixes.html](http://forum.notebookreview.com/sager-clevo/573789-linux-kernel-2-6-38-sager-np8130-freeze-fixes.html)

I will report back if the freezing continues.

**Edit:** I am reporting back. The freezing has continued. Damn.

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-03
Ok three days with out a freeze up, with screen saver turned off

Will now turn it back on and see what happens, but I'm thinking the screen saver is a fault.

---

### Post by balikos on 2011-05-04
Same problem here! I have always had my screen saver disabled! but the screen freezes when I am watching a video and the computer becomes idle. When screen goes blank, I can still move my mouse and but the audio from the video is still on! I need to shut down manually!

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-04
count me in for this :(
11.04 64bit
OK, I tried all combinations with and without screensaver. Turning of screen or leaving it on all the time. But the result is always the same. After some time of idling system freezes. But guayadeque continues to work normally only I don't have any control over it. And I think that all other program also run normally, But I don't have any inputs apart from mouse movement.

And one other thing about idling. I set option to dim display when idle but since when is watching a movie idling???

---

### Post by Jamaica1985 on 2011-05-04
Same issue here on two laptops running 11.04 32bit (both upgraded from 10.10) even though I completely disabled the screensaver it still locks up, this though only seems to happen when playing a full screen vid. One computewr is a Compaq 3619LA laptop and the other one an Acer Aspire One 150

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-05-05
screensaver disabled, so as long as I don't close the lid on this laptop and am willing to let the monitor stay on in-defintely everything is just fine.

if I close the lid = freeze whether screensaver is on or not
screen saver on = freeze
screen saver = screen on forever, not liking this

seems this in not a single situation but a far reaching bug.

will there be anything done to resolve it?

---

### Post by quadrantids on 2011-05-06
I too seem to have the problem that everyone is describing.

I have tried disabling wireless in the connections prior to either leaving my computer for a long period or to putting it into Suspend. So far this seems to avoid the freeze, but of course I have to enable wireless everytime I wake it up...

My 11.04 was an update from 10.04 and not a clean install.

I'M SORRY EVERYONE: 11.04 has just freezed on me on waking up.

---

### Post by UranUtan on 2011-05-06
Add me to the list of the screensaver freeze. I set it to random, the freezing occurs on wake up. May be after 15 to 30 minutes. Occurred on different screensavers. 

Fresh 11.04 x64 Install, new motherboard, built in graphic Intel GMA4500.

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-07
well, I'm not sure but it seems to me that freezing occurs only if I leave some music player running. Actually, not just running but playing something, I'll do some further testing with that conditions.
But with SS turned of and with "display always on" and opened FF4 and skype my dell didn't froze although I left it running for more then 4 hours this morning while I was doing something outside.

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-07
Hi mine freezes with anything running, or even nothing running...

It is hard to track as sometimes it will run ok for a few days then just like that it will freeze two or three times in a day.

I'm thinking of switching to classic, and seeing if it freezes then.

It may be the fancy new interface that is the problem

It seems to me that 11.04 wasn't really ready for release, I also have a problem that when I run an update I now lose my picture.

 I'm hopping that this doesn't turn into ubuntu's vista...

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-07
I'm running classic. Unity is not the reason, at least not just unity.

---

### Post by AlabamaMustang on 2011-05-07
I am seeing this issue as well. Just for the record. I upgraded from 10.10.   The SS does not seem to be the issue.  It is when the computer goes to Sleep or Suspends.  I set those to Never and it seems to fix it.  You can test it with the close the lid option.  Mine was Suspend so as soon as I closed it would freeze up.

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-07
for me it's not suspend. Suspend works perfectly but if I leave guayadeque playing with SS then after some (still undetermined) time my desktop freezes. Guayadeque still plays but I don't have any controls over it. Or over anything else. But I can go to tty2.

I'm going out now and I'll leave guayadeque playing with SS of and "display of after......" and see what happens.

---

### Post by JesseHawks on 2011-05-07
Getting the same freeze issue as the rest I have the screen saver turned off and still experience the freezes whenever watching a full screen video, playing full screen games, whenever PC is idle. I have a small partition of windows as a backup but I really want to have a full Ubuntu laptop. This will not be possible or a downgrade might be needed to achieve this if the freezing continues.

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-07
Hi all

I wanted to ask JesseHawks and the others that have a problem freezing when playing full screen moves and games a question?

I am trying to work out if there are two problems or just one. 

My question is this...when your system freezes if you move your mouse does the cursors appear and move about ok? or does nothing happen when you move the mouse?

With my freeze as I called it ( may not really be a true freeze) i think the system is still running if I move the mouse around the screen i can see it change as it moves over links and things...also if I have sound playing it will play on most times.

In my case I guess it's not really a freeze but a  failure to redraw the desktop.

Is this what is happening to all of you....?

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-08
that's pretty much what I concluded also. Everything actually still runs normally but I'm stuck with one screen and moving cursor which cannot make any input. 

And about my yesterdays test, well it didn't froze. Guayadeque was running for almost 5 hours, SS was of and display was set to turn of.

---

### Post by boxrec on 2011-05-08
Me too, screen stays black but I can see and move the mouse pointer.

---

### Post by lefthand on 2011-05-08
Same here on two different laptops. I can move the mouse and the keyboard seems to work but the rest of the screen is static.

I did fine that I could switch to tty1 (crtl+alt+f1) and kill Xorg and then it would come right back up with a new session. When I would do this the freezes would come back more frequently though. 

It also only seems to happen when I close the laptop lid. Maybe a failed suspend?

---

### Post by snotskie on 2011-05-08
Mine's doing this as well.
Did it in 10.10, and in 10.04 too after upgrade.

When the computer wakes back up from SS, etc, the screen stops updating behind it, so it's just as if nothing were responding, yet I can still see, move, and even use the mouse.

I normally press the power button followed by a few return key presses, hoping that the "Shutdown?" dialog popped up (without being shown, of course).

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-09
small update..........
leaving ff4 running with dtamanager downloading something freezes my notebook after some 20-30 minutes.

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-05-09
same as a few of you, when I open the lid, wake the computer, etc the screen just seems to be frozen, while the computer still runs.
the time on the screen is the time when I closed the lid on the laptop, so it's a given now that I just check the time to see if it's stalled or not.

the only programs I leave running, ever, are Mozilla Firefox, Transmission BitTorrent, and/or LibreOfficeCalc

as a few have also stated, it will run fine for a day, hours, etc, then out of the blue it freezes.

---

### Post by 3do on 2011-05-09
I am also experiencing freezing but it happens as soon as i log in [toshiba laptop with core duo 1.83GHz, 2gb ram, Quadro NVS 100m graphics].

All i have done was install ubuntu then started to update and was asked to restart which i did but once it loaded back up and i logged in that's when i couldn't do anything except move the mouse.

*Edit* Managed to get classic mode working by going into recovery mode on boot or whatever its called but i want unity working.

---

### Post by dannyprox on 2011-05-09
Hello, this would be my first post. I'm new in Ubuntu and was experiencing the same issue. Found this recently:

Possible solution courtesy of [Tianair]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1296853"):

-Install Compiz Settings Manager:
```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
```-Go to OpenGL plug-in & uncheck the Sync to VBlank option.

Worked for me so far.

Please excuse my bad english.

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-09
Thanks dannyprox

I already had Compiz Settings Manager installed, so I have changed the setting you talked about and will see if that helps.

I will post on how it goes...

---

### Post by blg on 2011-05-09
I'm having screensaver issues too.  Thought someone else might want to run this test...

Reference: [749811]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xscreensaver/+bug/749811/comments/7")
```
/usr/lib/xscreensaver/gltext
```

I open two terminals, start "top" in one terminal, then start "/usr/lib/xscreensaver/gltext" in the other.

Tested four xubuntu systems, 3 x 11.04 and 1 x 10.10.

On the 10.10 system gltext uses a nice steady 1.0% memory.

On all three 11.04 systems, gltext ran up to 90% memory usage.  On the two weaker systems gltext hit 90% and fail with an "Aborted" message on one and "Killed" message on the other.  The stronger system, a quad core AMD, runs up to 90% and just hangs there until I force it down with the power button.  Before forcing it down, I have no cursor, no consoles, no ssh, it's locked hard.

I've got my screensaver set to "Blank Screen Only" until the devs get this figured out and send out an update.

---

### Post by sieve on 2011-05-10
I have 2 identical machines running 11.04x64.  On one of the machines, the mouse click becomes disabled.  I can move the pointer around the screen, but clicking on things has no effect.  From what I've experienced, this happens after a period of being idle and I have the screensaver set to blank.  It doesn't happen all the time.  It doesn't happen on the other identical machine.  The only way I have been able to get out is reisub. :confused:

---

### Post by lefthand on 2011-05-10
> **dannyprox said:**
> Hello, this would be my first post. I'm new in Ubuntu and was experiencing the same issue. Found this recently:

Possible solution courtesy of [Tianair]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1296853"):

-Install Compiz Settings Manager:
```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
```-Go to OpenGL plug-in & uncheck the Sync to VBlank option.

Worked for me so far.

Please excuse my bad english.

This has worked for me for the past day anyway. Fixed both of my laptops.

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-10
> 
Originally Posted by dannyprox View Post
Hello, this would be my first post. I'm new in Ubuntu and was experiencing the same issue. Found this recently:

Possible solution courtesy of Tianair:

-Install Compiz Settings Manager:
Code:

sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager

-Go to OpenGL plug-in & uncheck the Sync to VBlank option.

Worked for me so far.

Please excuse my bad english.


So fare this has also worked on my system. Though I will not say it is fixed till it had run for a week or so, as I did notice that at time it would work ok for a few days at a time...

I would also like to know what i'm turning off by doing this....anyone know...?

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-11
well, don't know what does it do exactly but I think it solves the problem.

---

### Post by dannyprox on 2011-05-11
Glad it helped you guys. I can't really say what we're turning off by doing this since I'm a bit of a noob in Linux systems (got Ubuntu around 3-4 weeks ago). Anyways, I've had this setting running for about 1 week now and it's been working just fine.

Sorry again for the english.

):P

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-11
Sync to vblank is not just linuk thing. It's everywhere, from tv signals to video games. And I know what is it used for in some cases but not sure about this one.

---

### Post by quadrantids on 2011-05-11
I have tried unticking sync to vblank in open GL and unfortunately the freeze still persists.

I also tried using Ubuntu Classic and I have the problem there too...

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-05-11
> **dannyprox said:**
> Hello, this would be my first post. I'm new in Ubuntu and was experiencing the same issue. Found this recently:

Possible solution courtesy of [Tianair]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1296853"):

-Install Compiz Settings Manager:
```
sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager
```-Go to OpenGL plug-in & uncheck the Sync to VBlank option.

Worked for me so far.

Please excuse my bad english.

thanks for that information.

I have tried it out, and will respond after a few days whether it has worked or not.

hoping for the best as it seems this problem won't be getting solved by anyone other then those suffering from it.

---

### Post by anfho on 2011-05-12
I have system freeze experience with Ubuntu 11.04 as well... (firefox is causing it) I installed the package. How can I Go to OpenGL plug-in & uncheck the Sync to VBlank option?
Thanks!

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-12
look at the post above yours :rolleyes:

And for me , so far it seems fixed.

---

### Post by dannyprox on 2011-05-12
Ok, here's what I did:

-Go to the dash and type compiz, Compiz Settings Manager application should show up in the results, open it.

-Don't touch anything and type open, again, OpenGL plugin should show up. Open it and look for the VBlank option. Disable it.

Hope that helped you.
):P

---

### Post by pburdick on 2011-05-12
I tried your test with gltext and system monitor. My 3gb of RAM disappeared fast. There is a SERIOUS memory leak in something associated with gltext.

---

### Post by richard.scott-ettrick on 2011-05-12
I am running Natty 64 bit on a Dell Laptop with 3GB Memory and a 1.8 GHz Celeron Dual core processor. I had trouble with the screensaver causing freezes as well. I took out the Unity Desktop and went back to the Gnome desktop. No problems since.

---

### Post by bwallum on 2011-05-12
Richard, What graphics driver are you running?

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-13
running gnome instead of unity is not a solution. I'm on gnome and I had this problem.

---

### Post by anfho on 2011-05-13
> **dannyprox said:**
> Ok, here's what I did:
 
-Go to the dash and type compiz, Compiz Settings Manager application should show up in the results, open it.
 
-Don't touch anything and type open, again, OpenGL plugin should show up. Open it and look for the VBlank option. Disable it.
 
Hope that helped you.
):P
 
 
Hi dannyprox, unfortunately typing in compiz does not work for me:
```
 
[EMAIL="andreas@Ubuntu-VirtualBox:~$"]andreas@Ubuntu-VirtualBox:~$[/EMAIL] compiz
compiz (core) - Error: Screen 0 on display ":0.0" already has a window manager; try using the --replace option to replace the current window manager.
andreas@Ubuntu-VirtualBox:~$ 

```
 
Thx for the help!
Andreas

---

### Post by deadguy73 on 2011-05-13
I am having the same freeze issues described here.
my laptop will freeze after the screensaver runs for a while.
I just tried disabling the sync to vblank option in compiz.
I will report back if it solves the issue for me as well.
(intel graphics)


update: I've been running the screensaver for over an hour now and no freeze as of yet :)
        the above solution has seemed to work as I could not run the screensaver for longer
        than 20 minutes without it freezing up. Thankyou dannyprox!!
 
update#2   well in a day and a half I got one freeze while the screensaver
         was running... so better but not fixed yet...

    Cheers,

       deadguy73

---

### Post by theicyj on 2011-05-13
I am running Ubuntu 11.04 on a Dell Precision M4300 (dual core, 4GB mem).  I too have had Ubuntu freeze on me too, but not during the screensaver.  I will be running a few of the regular applications I always use, not doing anything out of the ordinary and Ubuntu will lock up.  None of the other keyboard shortcuts will work (like Alt+F2) and I have to resort to holding the power button for 10 seconds and hoping I recently saved my work.  I have settled well into Unity but sometimes I contemplate reverting to 10.10.

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-13
Just an update

Disabling the sync to vblank option in compiz seems to have stopped my system from freezing. Have had i running now none stop for about three days and not a freeze...:-)

Still would like to know what i have disabled...

---

### Post by dannyprox on 2011-05-13
> **benlyboy said:**
> Just an update

Disabling the sync to vblank option in compiz seems to have stopped my system from freezing. Have had i running now none stop for about three days and not a freeze...:-)

Still would like to know what i have disabled...
Read[ this.]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vertical_blanking_interval")

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-05-14
so I disabled the "synch to vblank" option

however I still experience the freezes.

this is awsome, it's almost like the old days of running windows again, oh the memories.

---

### Post by quadrantids on 2011-05-16
I have tried changing the Power Management Preferences, **setting the Display to Never when inactive for**, and setting Actions to putting the computer to sleep when inactive for 10 minutes (but I suspect that it is the Display setting that matters). My screensaver comes on after 5 minutes of no activity.

I have now gone for three days without the usual freeze even though I have been putting my laptop to Suspend at every opportunity, or letting it go to Suspend after 10 minutes.

---

### Post by kalyp on 2011-05-20
I don't know if people trying to fix this are reading this post, but just to confirm that only the screen freezes, not the computer. Not only can I see & move the mouse but also the music that was playing still is. Only noticed when I tried to check something - then screensaver freezes as described, but the music still plays... and I can Ctrl Alt F1 (it stops) and back to Ctrl Alt F7 (plays again, same screen).
Anyway. I'll try the Sync to VBlank trick, thanks!!

---

### Post by kinggo on 2011-05-21
99% that this is sync to VBlank issue. I've been messing with compiz again and I turned that on again and screen froze again. Twice.

---

### Post by LonelyAspie on 2011-05-21
> **kinggo said:**
> 99% that this is sync to VBlank issue. I've been messing with compiz again and I turned that on again and screen froze again. Twice.

What is Sync to VBlank? How do we disable or fix this?

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-05-21
It was posted earlier in this thread but here it is again.

To disable Sync to VBlank

> 
Originally Posted by dannyprox View Post
Hello, this would be my first post. I'm new in Ubuntu and was experiencing the same issue. Found this recently:

Possible solution courtesy of Tianair:

-Install Compiz Settings Manager:
Code:

sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager

-Go to OpenGL plug-in & uncheck the Sync to VBlank option.

Worked for me so far.

Please excuse my bad english. 


note you can also install compizconfig from the software centre for those that have problems with command line.
1  open software centre
2  in search put compizconfig 
3  install "advanced desktop effects settings (ccsm)"

---

### Post by krcolwell on 2011-05-21
I have been having this issue as well (Ubuntu 11.04 x64; Dell Inspiron 1545; 640GB HDD; 4 GB RAM; 2.1 GHz Pentium Dual Core).

Am trying the VBlank solution, will report back.

On my computer it happens no matter what (screen saver or no...)

---

### Post by wolfen69 on 2011-05-22
It is affecting me also. I don't use a screensaver, and don't use compiz, as I run Xubuntu. I've had the computer freeze while doing my usual stuff (bittorrent, TV, surfing) Sometimes the TV will keep playing but nothing else is responsive. And a couple times, the computer logged off by itself without warning.

Btw, since it's been a while since I've had any problems, which log file should I be looking at after I experience these things? I want to report them to Launchpad.

---

### Post by Bon Scott on 2011-05-28
The VBlank soltution didn't work for me as well. My system freezes still...

So I decided following the thread below that uninstalls gnome-screensaver and sets xscreensaver instead. Till now everything runs flawless since I've adopted xscrennsaver.:D  The thread link:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1358946](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1358946)

---

### Post by quadrantids on 2011-06-01
I think I haven't understood something since I already posted this more than two weeks ago that by changing the Power Management Preferences so that the display is never put to sleep has totally solved the problem for me.

Currently I have set the following: On AC power, put the computer to sleep after 10 minutes, never put the display to sleep.

My screensaver comes on after 5 minutes.

---

### Post by RedLeg217 on 2011-06-05
> **kalyp said:**
> I don't know if people trying to fix this are reading this post, but just to confirm that only the screen freezes, not the computer. Not only can I see & move the mouse but also the music that was playing still is. Only noticed when I tried to check something - then screensaver freezes as described, but the music still plays... and I can Ctrl Alt F1 (it stops) and back to Ctrl Alt F7 (plays again, same screen).
Anyway. I'll try the Sync to VBlank trick, thanks!!

I noticed this also.  I was able click on links "beneath" the frozen screen saver.

---

### Post by RedLeg217 on 2011-06-09
This is really frustrating.  The exact same thing is happening in Mint 11 and the same solutions are being suggested with minimal success.

---

### Post by joneyo on 2011-06-15
hi there. i`m new to ubuntu as well. i`m dual booting windows 7 and 11.04 on an amd dual core 1.60 with 3gb ram and having this problem as well. doesnt only happen when my laptop is inactive, but when i`m first booting up 11.04. is there any news of a definite fix for this problem

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-06-16
so has anyone made any of the changes suggested... and NEVER had another freeze?

it is hit or miss now, and nothing like the daily/hourly freezes I was experiencing... but I'm just wondering if anyone has SOLVED this problem... or if it's an ongoing thing that won't get fixed??

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-16
> **joneyo said:**
> hi there. i`m new to ubuntu as well. i`m dual booting windows 7 and 11.04 on an amd dual core 1.60 with 3gb ram and having this problem as well. doesnt only happen when my laptop is inactive, but when i`m first booting up 11.04. is there any news of a definite fix for this problemHi, I think you should boot into ubuntu classic with no effects at the log in screen and see if that helps, you do not have that much of a processor and with compiz in unity it takes more then older releases.

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2011-06-16
I had the same freezing problem in Xubuntu 11.04, Unity in Ubuntu 11.04 did not like my pc at all, so I went back to 10.4.2

---

### Post by joneyo on 2011-06-16
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> Hi, I think you should boot into ubuntu classic with no effects at the log in screen and see if that helps, you do not have that much of a processor and with compiz in unity it takes more then older releases.

i'll give it a try. but most times it will freeze before the logon screen comes up

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-16
> **joneyo said:**
> i'll give it a try. but most times it will freeze before the logon screen comes up

Hi, thats not good, what video card do you have and what driver are you using for it?

---

### Post by joneyo on 2011-06-16
> **wildmanne39 said:**
> Hi, thats not good, what video card do you have and what driver are you using for it?

ati radeon hd 6310 with the ati drivers

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-17
> **joneyo said:**
> ati radeon hd 6310 with the ati driversHi, I did not find any problems on the forums about your video card. You need to run system monitor or top, system monitor is easier for a new person I believe, when your system freezes with the monitor open see what process is causing the freeze or if you can not see the monitor open log viewer after you get your system back up and look through the logs and you should find the program that caused the system to freeze.

---

### Post by CDG_Bedwyn on 2011-06-17
> **quadrantids said:**
> I think I haven't understood something since I already posted this more than two weeks ago that by changing the Power Management Preferences so that the display is never put to sleep has totally solved the problem for me.

Currently I have set the following: On AC power, put the computer to sleep after 10 minutes, never put the display to sleep.

My screensaver comes on after 5 minutes.

Same here;
I managed to fix mine by just setting the power management options to never put the display to sleep. 

Interestingly I have changed it back to go to sleep after 15mins this morning and I have had no freezes.  There have been a couple of updates to 11.04 recently so I wonder if it's fixed now anyway?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-06-17
> **CDG_Bedwyn said:**
> Same here;
I managed to fix mine by just setting the power management options to never put the display to sleep. 

Interestingly I have changed it back to go to sleep after 15mins this morning and I have had no freezes.  There have been a couple of updates to 11.04 recently so I wonder if it's fixed now anyway?
Hi, I have seen some posts that say the screensaver it's self is causing freezing on some systems.

---

### Post by benlyboy on 2011-06-18
> so has anyone made any of the changes suggested... and NEVER had another freeze?

it is hit or miss now, and nothing like the daily/hourly freezes I was experiencing... but I'm just wondering if anyone has SOLVED this problem... or if it's an ongoing thing that won't get fixed??

I was getting one or two freezes a day. After following the steps below, and even though my system is continually running I have not had a single freeze since in over a month.

> Originally Posted by dannyprox View Post
Hello, this would be my first post. I'm new in Ubuntu and was experiencing the same issue. Found this recently:

Possible solution courtesy of Tianair:

-Install Compiz Settings Manager:
Code:

sudo apt-get install compizconfig-settings-manager

-Go to OpenGL plug-in & uncheck the Sync to VBlank option.

Worked for me so far.

Please excuse my bad english. 

> note you can also install compizconfig from the software centre for those that have problems with command line.
1 open software centre
2 in search put compizconfig
3 install "advanced desktop effects settings (ccsm)"

---

### Post by dannyprox on 2011-06-29
Just an update: The solution I posted earlier is still working.

):P

---

### Post by bond.rc on 2011-06-30
hey,
i have like a freeze a day, sometimes while im working with my laptop, sometimes when i turn it on from standby. tried unity and gnome 2 (without unity)

my system:
lenovo thinkpad e350
ubuntu 11.04
xorg edgers video drivers
kernel 2.6.39

gonna try the solution from dannyprox and report back.

edit: nearly 3 days now and no freezing so far. seems to work. thx :)!

---

### Post by avdzm on 2011-07-07
Hey all,

I have had to freezes since I've made the changes by (un-ticking) uncheck the Sync to VBlank option. :'-(

Not sure what else it could be....

I am going to try removing all affects.

Will keep u posted.

---

### Post by LonelyAspie on 2011-07-07
Awhile ago, I just reinstalled Ubuntu 10.10, been using that ever since.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-07-07
Hi, here is a link on freezing issues in natty, this fixes most freezing problems.
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze)

---

### Post by eudemonis on 2011-07-15
I've done a fresh install... had the same problem... trying the unchecking Synk to VBlank... we'll see...

---

### Post by edurj on 2011-07-17
> **eudemonis said:**
> I've done a fresh install... had the same problem... trying the unchecking Synk to VBlank... we'll see...

Worked fine for me as well. To recover from the freeze I "killall -9 compiz" (the system will respawn a new compiz instance) then unchecked OpenGL option vblank as mentioned w/o turn off the computer.

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-07-30
well it would seem this problem will NOT go away for me.

I have unchecked Synch to VBlank, did that originally after reading here... still freezes. someday's 3-5 times a day, others not at all. 2 days ago I couldn't close the lid without it freezing, since then it has worked fine...

I guess since nothing is being done about it in 11, I may have to resort back to 10, as someone above did.

---

### Post by richbz on 2011-07-30
Hi all -

I have a fresh install of Natty 11.04 with an updated Kernel Linux 3.0.0-0300-generic because I was told on one of the forums (I cannot remember which one) this would fix my issue of freezing. After updating the kernel I have still had random freezing although not as often.  

After seeing the post about the Compiz-Manager I have unchecked the box and will update everyone on the success of this.  

There is one crazy part about this. When I installed the 11.04 from the disk it started with Unity desktop.  After installing all the updates with the update manager (I didn't change any setting or anything, just kept updating until all the updates had been installed on the computer) the computer changed over to the GNOME 2.32.1.  I don't know why this happened but here are my computer specs:

Memory: 2.8 GiB
Processor: Intel(R) Core(TM)2 Quad CPU Q8200 @ 2.33GHz

I don't know what type of graphic card I have but I do know its a Nvidia.

---

### Post by george5729 on 2011-07-31
Hi Everyone,

I too am having the freezing problem with Natty 11.04. And I removed the original install from the hard drive and re-installed a new version of Natty; and still again, the freeze happens!

The one thing that I have noticed is my clock gets changed. And once that happens, a freeze will occur soon after.

What changed my clock?

Is it possible to change the clock by a virus for example embeded in a wmv file? or some other type of executable.

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-08-01
Hi, I do not know what is causing your problem. I am pretty sure it is not a virus.

Did you have a look at the link I posted? that is really my main suggestion.

You can open log file viewer and look at dmesg and xorg log right after you recover from a freeze and see if you see any errors.
I am not an expert with these problems.
If you post the files here please do so and post the outcome here by clicking on new reply and click # and paste the information between the brackets.
Thank you

---

### Post by BS_Kustomz on 2011-08-02
i have noticed that even while "Frozen" all my functions still work, music playback and controls, volume up/down, mute, background downloads. it just doesn't refresh the screen, i thought it was the screen saver too but i turned the screen saver off and it will still blank the screen if unattended for a while and then freezes

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2011-08-02
Hi, in screensaver settings click on power management and make sure it is set to never spin down and to not put display to sleep.

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-08-10
all advice has been taken, followed, repeated and... 

atleast a freeze a day, sometimes 3-4-5 depending how often I close the lid.

memories of Windows, this is fun.

I think next week a flashback to Ubuntu 10 is needed. then just wait for 12 before upgrading again... hope for the best.

---

### Post by xp15 on 2011-08-12
your system don't realy freezes, the problem is that you can't see the screen. If you'll play with the mouse around the center of the screen where the password messege box should appears,
 you'll notice your mouse changing to a writting mouse, just click where he changed and enter your password, then "Enter"  and you should see everything again.

I wish i helped you ;)

---

### Post by godfazr on 2011-08-13
Hi guys.
I have a bit different problem with freezing on my netbook: when working from battery system can freeze just at random moment. First I thought that this happens when system is idle for some time, but this happens sometimes even in few moments after some action. I.e. system just freezes and don't respond to keys and even to touchpad, the only button that works is hardware power off.
didn't experience such problem when working on AC adapter.
has anyone faced such problem and it there a known solution for this?
I have Acer Aspire One 751.

---

### Post by mcrene on 2011-08-13
> **xp15 said:**
> your system don't realy freezes, the problem is that you can't see the screen. If you'll play with the mouse around the center of the screen where the password messege box should appears,
 you'll notice your mouse changing to a writting mouse, just click where he changed and enter your password, then "Enter"  and you should see everything again.

I wish i helped you ;)

I wish that were true, but I don't have a password protected log in. Well not everytime this has happened. 
I'll give it a shot next time it happens while I am logged into that account.

thanks, it is something new to try, which is better then what little help/resolution has been given by the support teams.

---

### Post by Matt 6:27 on 2011-08-15
For what it's worth, on my 10.04 system I've shut off both Compiz and Cairo Dock and haven't had the problem for several days. I'm leaning toward a Compiz issue since the mouse freeze occurred when my dock was off but Compiz was still on. It bums me out a little because I love my dock and eye candy, but I'd rather live without those things for the sake of stability.

---

### Post by relgames on 2011-08-20
Got the same problem again just today's morning. Sync to VBlank is disabled, screen saver is disabled.

After some googling I found this: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Troubleshooting/Freeze)

So looks like it's a graphics driver problem. Will send a report as soon as next freeze happens.

I suggest you to use instructions provided and report bugs as well, so driver developers will get a chance to fix it.

---

### Post by mightybrick on 2011-08-25
So relieved. Unchecking VBlank fixed my freezes. I was just about to roll back to 10.10. Thanks for the help and suggestions. :)

---

### Post by wissamshaar on 2011-08-31
> **mcrene said:**
> so has anyone made any of the changes suggested... and NEVER had another freeze?

it is hit or miss now, and nothing like the daily/hourly freezes I was experiencing... but I'm just wondering if anyone has SOLVED this problem... or if it's an ongoing thing that won't get fixed??


I updated my Kernel 2 weeks ago and haven't had any freezes yet

---

### Post by ad delblade on 2011-09-02
with me the same problem.
Computer freeze, cursor moves only hard reset (power off)
Sometimes after a few minutes sometimes after a few days

System
HP pavillion t190.nl
2,4ghz AMD athlon xp
Nvidea GeForce4 MX 440 
2gb internal mem
120GB HD windows
60GB Ubuntu partition
180GB file system partition
2GB swap partition
Soundblaster Audigy 4
DVD reader
DVD Burner

---

### Post by ad delblade on 2011-09-03
VBlank fix didn´t do the trick.

---

### Post by balbecdaze on 2011-09-24
I tried all the above, to no avail, then I stumbled upon the following:
[acpi=off]("http://www.linoob.com/forum/showthread.php?tid=165")
I couldn't follow the instructions exactly (no F6 choice with 11.04 install CD) so I just edited the grub line that includes "acpi=off" from my already installed (freezing) system, updated the grub file and hey presto!
While [wikipedia-ing acpi]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Configuration_and_Power_Interface") I was amused by the quotes from Linus Torvalds that acpi is ""a complete disaster in every way", in relation to his views that "modern PCs are horrible"".

UPDATE: this then meant my laptop would "Halt" but not Shutdown, changing acpi=off to pci=noacpi sorted this out.

---

### Post by boxafrogs on 2011-10-02
Hey everyone,
I'm getting the same freezing problem, today just minutes after starting up. I'm new to ubuntu and have installed 11.04 over the top of win 7 that came with my new computer:

[SIZE=1]Inwin Mini-ITX BP655 Case + 200W PSU[/SIZE][SIZE=1][B]
Processor (CPU)[/B][/SIZE][SIZE=1]Intel® Celeron® Dual-Core G530 (2.40GHz, 2MB Cache) + HD Graphics[/SIZE][SIZE=1][B]
Motherboard[/B][/SIZE][SIZE=1]INTEL® DH67CF: Mini-ITX, LG1155, USB 3.0, SATA 6GBs, RAID[/SIZE][SIZE=1][B]
Memory (RAM)[/B][/SIZE][SIZE=1]2GB SAMSUNG DDR3 DUAL-DDR3 1333MHz (1 x 2GB)[/SIZE][SIZE=1][B]
Graphics Card[/B][/SIZE][SIZE=1]Intel Graphics Media Accelerator HD + Clear Video HD Technology[/SIZE]
[SIZE=1]**Memory - 1st Hard Disk**[/SIZE][SIZE=1]500GB SERIAL ATA 3-Gb/s HARD DRIVE WITH 8MB CACHE (7,200rpm)[/SIZE][SIZE=1]**1st DVD/BLU-RAY Drive**[/SIZE][SIZE=1]24x DUAL LAYER DVD WRITER ±R/±RW/RAM
[/SIZE][SIZE=1]**Sound Card**[/SIZE][SIZE=1]ONBOARD 10 CHANNEL (7.1) HIGH DEF AUDIO (AS STANDARD)[/SIZE][SIZE=1][B]
Network Facilities[/B][/SIZE][SIZE=1]ONBOARD 10/100/1000 GIGABIT LAN PORT 
[/SIZE][SIZE=1]**USB Options**[/SIZE][SIZE=1]2 x USB 3.0 PORTS + 4 x USB 2.0 PORTS AS STANDARD[/SIZE]

I've tried some updates but am unsure as to how to "edit grub lines". 
Can someone provide instructions on fixes to try for those of us not familiar with ubuntu's inner workings?
Thanks

---

### Post by LonelyAspie on 2011-10-03
I think it's a glitch in the power configuration. I also noticed when I put my laptop on suspend yesterday, it shut down but was still running.

If you press the caps lock or num lock button, it won't light up, if the light is already on, it won't turn off. I'm not sure if I said this before.

---

### Post by boxafrogs on 2011-10-03
Yeah i had that too. Having pressed the reset on my tower the power light went off, but there was still an image displayed.

---

### Post by finomeno on 2011-10-07
Hello!
I am experiencing the same problem under KDE - if I have any screensaver enabled (password protection on wake-up disabled), the computer freezes on wake-up. What happens when I open my laptop lid is I see the screensaver running and can see and move the mouse pointer, but there is no way to stop the screensaver. If I enable password protection, the password input window does not appear. It does, however, accept the password if I input it and hit enter, and the screensaver disappears showing the desktop. However, if I had any other language input other than English before putting the laptop to sleep, there is no way to switch back to English after wake-up. Moreover, pressing any of the key combinations for switching the language freezes the computer completely.
There is no setting for sync to vblank under KDE, so no way to implement the solution mentioned in this thread.
Any tips greatly appreciated.
Thanks!

---

### Post by Psy02 on 2011-10-08
I'm getting random freezes.  It is totally random, yet there are times it has occurred while I was running mplayer, it keeps playing the audio but the video freezes and mplayer gets the error X11 error: BadValue (integer parameter out of range for operation) then clicking on any other window will cause that window to come up and the kernel to instantly crash with audio looping and caps&scroll lock flashing plus sysrq keys not responding.

---

### Post by boxafrogs on 2011-10-09
Having done the following I've reduced the number of crashes significantly.
1) Follow this [http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/reinstallation](http://sites.google.com/site/easylinuxtipsproject/reinstallation) and reinstall ubuntu.
2) before doing anything else I installed compizConfig as detailed here [http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/things-to-tweak-fix-after-installing.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/things-to-tweak-fix-after-installing.html)
3) Click on OpenGL and uncheck sync to VBlank. Close that.
4) Open the screen saver preferences and uncheck "activate screen saver when computer is idle".
It's only crashed once today, big improvement!

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2011-10-25
Has this screensaver freezing bug had any work arounds yet.

I have turned the screensaver off and set power and monitor to never.
They don't freeze now but when I turn on screenasver, frozen, shortly after.

I have done clean installs of Xubuntu and Lubuntu 11.10
Both freeze with the screensaver, only a reboot fixes it.

This only happens on my laptop, 1gb memory compared to 8 in the desktop, I'm guessing is the reason.

---

### Post by Spice Girls on 2011-10-25
Here is a fix for the freezing.

In Power Management, make sure none of the actions is set to "Suspend" this is what does it.

"Put computer to sleep when inactive for: Never
"When laptop is closed: blank screen"


"When battery power is critically low: Shut Down"

That is what I have for my settings, haven't had a problem. I haven't tested hibernate, best just to say "Shut Down".

~ Mel C.

---

### Post by Rodney9 on 2011-10-31
Still not fixed, xscreensaver locks my laptop.

---

### Post by faderjockey on 2012-01-11
Ubuntu has always been ok on my computers..
But this new 11.04 stinks!!!

My gf's laptop is little better then mine.. hers freezes too. But my laptop not only freezes but does that thing where it kicks me back to login screen all the time. PITA!!

My desktop/office machine doesn't have has much trouble..one of the reasons I updated the laptop because the desktop seem to work well. But Ubuntu runs so differenty from machine to machine it drives me nuts.
I may have to move back to Mac.

The desktop doesn't have the trouble with the login thing like my lsaptop but it does freeze once in a while just like both laptops. 
What went wrong???? 10.04 (or whatever the last one I had) worked perfectly.:confused:

---

### Post by boxafrogs on 2012-01-11
11.10 is much more stable, try installing that. I've had it running for months now and it hasn't crashed once! :-)

---

### Post by Jussl on 2012-02-25
Recent distribution upgrades have been quite buggy.
I think focus should be moved from new features to stability.
We already have windows, no need for another.

If you agree, please sign this:
[http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/6980](http://brainstorm.ubuntu.com/idea/6980)

---

