---
title: "8.10 Intrepid Desktop Effects won't save"
date: 2008-12-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by k8fox1 on 2008-12-06
I enable all these cool desktop effects in 8.10 but when I reboot they are gone except for the window wiggle. Why? What can I do to save them?

Thanks,

Mike
oHIo

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-12-06
Hi there.
Try saving your session.

---

### Post by k8fox1 on 2008-12-06
How do I do that?

Thanks,

Mike
oHIo

---

### Post by eternalnewbee on 2008-12-06
Go to **Main Menu > System > Preferences > Sessions > Options**, and click on **Save Currently Running Applications**.

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-12-07
> **k8fox1 said:**
> I enable all these cool desktop effects in 8.10 but when I reboot they are gone except for the window wiggle. Why?
Are you on GNOME?
That's most probably because Compiz does not have the privileges to permanently store its settings in gconf.

Did you by any chance run an application being root you shouldn't need to?
Run those commands to make sure you have write privileges in your home directory:
```
sudo chown -R $USER:$USER $HOME
```
```
chmod -R u+rwX $HOME
```

---

### Post by k8fox1 on 2008-12-07
Thanks. When I run sudo chown -R $USER:$USER $HOME I get the result 
chown: cannot access `/home/mdt/.gvfs': Permission denied

When I run chmod -R u+rwX $HOME I return to the prompt.

-Mike
oHIo

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-12-07
Now change the settings you like, reboot, see if it worked.

---

### Post by k8fox1 on 2008-12-07
Yes this worked. Thanks. One last favour please help me understand how this fixed this issue by running chmod -R u+rwX $HOME? What did this change?

Thanks,

Mike
oHIo

---

### Post by Forlong on 2008-12-07
**chmod** is the program to **ch**ange the **mod**e of files.
The argument **-R** is for recursive, meaning all files of a directory will be affected.
In **u+rwX** the **u** stands for user, meaning the owner of the directory. **rwX** is for **r**ead, **w**rite an e**x**ecute permissions and the **+** adds them for the user.
Finally **$HOME** is the variable for your home directory (since I do not know what its exact path is).

---

### Post by k8fox1 on 2008-12-07
Thanks for the explanation! This is no good if I don't learn anything :p

-Mike
oHIo

---

