---
title: "Nvidia 6200 replacing a 5200"
date: 2007-01-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dartmusic on 2007-01-24
I recently swapped the ATI video card in my MythTV box with an Nvidia 5200, which I read here and elsewhere was a good and inexpensive choice for an HTPC.  The ATI card did not have a fan, but the Nvidia 5200 did and it made an awful loud and kind of sick sound, though the card worked great (other than I could never get XvMC to work with it.  

I couldn't find a 5200 without a fan, so I picked up a 6200 that was fanless, thinking it would be no problem as a replacement.  On these forums I read that all I really needed to do was to physically swap out the cards and it should be recognized off the bat, etc., as the Nvidia drivers are not card specific.  I'm here to tell you that this is not true.  In the past three days I have gone through every method of uninstalling and reinstalling the drivers -- manually, via Synaptic, via tseliot's guide and Envy, and Automatix, which is what I've always used in the past...at least since it was available!  Every time I get the same result, which is a black screen.  I can tell that it's completing the boot and it must be loading X, as the hard drive keeps whizzing along just like always, I just can't see it.  I've tried checking the log and there's an error about "no screens available" or something.  I've checked every solution that I could find, but none solve the problem.

Also, Envy doesn't actually create a new xorg.conf file, I've noticed.  In fact, it doesn't change the recognized name of my video card even.  If I start with an older xorg.conf that mentioned the 5200 and use the nv driver, it should change all of those entries, shouldn't it?  All that is changed is nv to nvidia.  

I'm connecting the 6200 via dvi (with dvi-hdmi cable) to an Olevia 26" LCD TV.  I'm now forcing the settings to the resolution and refresh rate listed on the box (I didn't have to do with with the 5200), but still I can't see my X session when I use the nvidia driver.

I'm attaching my xorg.conf for reference.  Any pointers in the right direction would be great!

Thanks.

PS:  I'm running Edgy.

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder3)  Fri Dec 15 10:12:14 PST 2006

# /etc/X11/xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the /etc/X11/xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man /etc/X11/xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen         "Default Screen" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"

	# path to defoma fonts
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/misc"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/cyrillic"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi/:unscaled"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/Type1"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/100dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/X11/fonts/75dpi"
    FontPath        "/usr/share/fonts/X11/misc"
    FontPath        "/var/lib/defoma/x-ttcidfont-conf.d/dirs/TrueType"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "bitmap"
    Load           "ddc"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
    Load           "int10"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "vbe"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Generic Keyboard"
    Driver         "kbd"
    Option         "CoreKeyboard"
    Option         "XkbRules" "xorg"
    Option         "XkbModel" "pc105"
    Option         "XkbLayout" "us"
    Option         "XkbOptions" "lv3:ralt_switch"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "Configured Mouse"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "CorePointer"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
    Option         "Protocol" "ExplorerPS/2"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

                                                      # /dev/input/event
                                                      # for USB
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/wacom"          # Change to 
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
    Option         "ForceDevice" "ISDV4"               # Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Generic Monitor"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 64.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Nvidia GeForce 6200"
    Driver         "nv"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default Screen"
    Device         "Nvidia GeForce 6200"
    Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       1
        Modes      "1280x768_60"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       4
        Modes      "1280x768_60"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       8
        Modes      "1280x768_60"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       15
        Modes      "1280x768_60"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       16
        Modes      "1280x768_60"
    EndSubSection
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
        Modes      "1280x768_60"
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
    Option         "Composite" "Enable"
EndSection

---

### Post by fragos on 2007-01-24
For one thing, the driver you're using is "nv" whish is an open source driver that doesn't support 3D rendering.  You say you've already installed the nivia driver, so change "nv" to "nvidia".

---

### Post by dartmusic on 2007-01-24
when I change the driver to "nvidia" I only get a black screen, as I said in my original post.  I cannot use the nvidia driver without getting a black screen and I'm looking for some input, since I can't seem to figure it out myself after three days of searching for an answer.

---

### Post by charlysbrother on 2007-01-25
I also have a nvidia 6200. Asus is the make. I get exactly the same problem, although i'm not sure it actually completes the boot, because the computer seems to become unresponsive: I don't  here the familiar login screen sound and numlock light refuses to come on when i press it.

Has anyone had any luck with this card?

---

### Post by jamyskis on 2007-01-25
While it's not a definitive answer, and I can't explain why it worked, I found that uninstalling the nvidia-glx package and then reinstalling it with the new card in seemed to work fine. I had this problem when I swapped my old FX5500 for a 6600GT. Might be worth running sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg again before reinstalling.

AFAIK the 6xxx series also requires an extra power cable to be plugged in (the 6600GT does). It's a daft question, but have you remembered this? Normally the Xserver will refuse to start and produce an error message to the effect that you have forgotten to plug this in when using the "nvidia" module, but I wouldn't exclude the possibility that it would simply bomb out with a black screen.

---

### Post by charlysbrother on 2007-01-25
> **moonS said:**
> With the last update os restricted modules nvidia-glx is broken on my machine.

I own the same card and i fix the problem adding this line to sources.list and upgrading my distro:

deb [http://nvidia.limitless.lupine.me.uk/ubuntu](http://nvidia.limitless.lupine.me.uk/ubuntu) edgy stable-9631


Does anobody know if ubuntu will fix the restricted drivers??


just tried this and it worked for me! good luck!

---

### Post by dartmusic on 2007-01-26
I appreciate the suggestions, but none of these solved my problems and, after another 4 hours of trying everything here and more, I still can only use the nv driver.

I'm fairly certain that a fresh install would solve the problem, but this is my MythTV box and I really don't want to have to go through that setup again.

I really do believe that I've simply not completely removed all traces of one of my nvidia driver attempts.  There's nothing showing as loaded in Synaptic, and loading manually through the repos, using Envy, using numerous other how-tos from this site and using Automatix all result in a broken X server.

One last white flag before I tear it down and start again...:(

---

### Post by fragos on 2007-01-26
Just a note, if you run "dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg" it will set the driver in xorg.conf to "nv" even if "nvidia" is available.

---

### Post by rudder on 2007-01-26
Ok, please note that I am just plucking possibilities out of thin air since you have already tried above all the things I would have recommended... but, you said you were doing this through the DVI port on the card, yes?  Isn't there some issue with dual head configuration needing to be setup to get this going?  Maybe that got ripped out of your xorg file?  It doesn't appear in the copy you posted.  Just a (probably pointless) thought...

---

### Post by dartmusic on 2007-01-28
Well, after two more days of dicking about with this (which means reformatting, again trying every means on installing nvidia drivers possible -- with the exception of the one that worked, detailed below) and my last ditch before deciding that I would just have to use the nv driver until this was sorted, I finally decided that it couldn't hurt to try the manual method of downloading the latest driver from the nvidia site and loading as per their instructions.  I guess they know what they're talking about as it worked perfectly.  I remember this being a huge struggle a year or more ago before all of these great scripts started showing up, which, up until now, always worked for me.  I'm not sure what happened, but I now have a 6200, without a fan, and with a working (and current) nvidia driver installed.

Thanks to everyone for chiming in and I hope that this method might help some of the other folks in this same situation...it certainly seems that I'm not alone.

One thing to remember if you do decide to install manually is to make sure that you have purged (and I deleted some of this stuff by hand) every bit of nvidia from your system (with the obvious exception of the nv driver).  I used "remove --purge" and then still deleted what remained by hand (as root).  Read the instructions on the nvidia site carefully and make sure that you have everything already that you need (make, gcc, proper linux-headers for your kernel) and when you switch to the tty session make sure to run "sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop" (or kdm if you're running KDE).  AND, make sure to run the "sh NVIDIA..." command to load to drivers as root, or "sudo sh NVIDIA...".

---

