---
title: "9.10 get compiz to use emerald"
date: 2010-04-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ftaylor on 2010-04-02
I have emerald on Ubuntu 9.10 64bit, and I wish to use emerald to decorate windows.

When I run ```
emerald --replace
```, the windows are decorated, but the command does not return. That is to say, I need to press ```
ctrl+c
``` to get back to terminal, and the windows lose borders at this point. If I run ```
emerald --replace&
```, windows lose decoration when I close the terminal that I ran emerald in. I have tried using ```
alt+f2
``` to run the command, and an empty, waiting, terminal opens on screen (and when I close this, windows lose decoration).

I have opened ```
ccsm
``` and set the window manager command to emerald in the window decoration plugin, but it seems to use metacity anyway (atleast I think metacity is what decorates the windows by default in 9.10).

What is the problem? 

Cheers,
Finbarr

---

### Post by ftaylor on 2010-04-02
I added a Startup Application at System>Preferences>Startup Applications. I named it Emerald and used the command emerald --replace and everything seems to work now.

---

### Post by stinkeye on 2010-04-02
To easily switch between window decorators and window managers....

Install fusion-icon
```
sudo apt-get install fusion-icon
```

Add it to startup applications with 
```
fusion-icon -n
```
in the command box




Then just right click on the system tray icon and select your window decorator.



Emerald is a window decorator.
Metacity and Compiz are window managers.

**If you install fusion-icon, remove your "emerald --replace" command from startup applications.**

---

