---
title: "NVRM: failed to register with the ACPI subsystem!"
date: 2010-03-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eatingaltoids on 2010-03-13
Hi all,

I had windows installed on my system for a long time, but last week I got tired of some things so I downloaded (and verified checksum) Ubuntu 9.10 (64 bit).

I'm (fairly) new to linux so I apologize for basic mistakes.

My hardware setup is:

motherboard: Foxconn K8M890-8237A
graphical card: Nvidia 8600 GT
CPU: AMD athlon 64 x2 dual core processor 5600+
RAM: 2 GB (normal so non EEC)

monitor:
Samsung 32" TV (le32a330j1)

So I installed Ubuntu and it boots up with default settings*, the problem with default settings is that everything on the screen is like flickering, like a frequency problem. 

*because of my Foxconn motherboard I had to disable ACPI function in the bios, and now I'm also booting with the parameter acpi=off

so I want to install nvidia drivers so I can configure the right frequency and so it isn't flickering anymore. I installed many different versions on many different ways (normal, envy, etc..) and at the end it asks for a reboot

this is what happens everytime on boot:
after GRUB I see a small white ubuntu symbol and after that I see a command line for a glimpse of a second. Like crtl-alt-f1 for a glimpse, than a few seconds blank screen and then a new glimpse and this loops until I hard reset.

here is my relevant part of my xorg.conf (with various attempts of adding options and changing lines):

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier    "Generic Monitor"
     Option         "DPMS"
    HorizSync    46-48 #this is added specifically for the TV
    VertRefresh     59-61 #this is added specifically for the TV
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Default  Screen"
    Device        "NVIDIA Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
      Monitor        "Generic Monitor"
    DefaultDepth    24
     SubSection  "Display"
        Depth        24
        Modes        "1360x768"
      EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
     Identifier     "Default Layout"
    Screen        "Default Screen"
     InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured  Mouse"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "NVIDIA  Corporation NVIDIA Default Card"
    BusID        "PCI:2:0:0"
     Option  "ConnectToAcpid" "0"
    Option "UseDisplayDevice" "DFP"
     Driver     "nvidia"
EndSection

```my xorg.0.log tells:

```
(EE) screen(s) found, but none have usable configuration
```it also tells me to check the kernel log, this is what the kern.log says:

```
Mar 13 20:57:16 mike-desktop kernel: [    9.511967] NVRM: failed to register  with the ACPI subsystem!
Mar 13 20:57:21 mike-desktop kernel: [   14.130742]  NVRM: RmInitAdapter failed! (0x12:0x2b:1659)
Mar 13 20:57:21 mike-desktop  kernel: [   14.130755] NVRM: rm_init_adapter(0) failed
Mar 13 20:57:21  mike-desktop kernel: [   14.142071] NVRM: failed to unregister from the ACPI  subsystem!
Mar 13 20:57:21 mike-desktop kernel: [   14.217077] NVRM: failed  to register with the ACPI subsystem!
Mar 13 20:57:25 mike-desktop kernel: [    18.620567] NVRM: RmInitAdapter failed! (0x12:0x2b:1659)
Mar 13 20:57:25  mike-desktop kernel: [   18.620578] NVRM: rm_init_adapter(0) failed
Mar 13  20:57:25 mike-desktop kernel: [   18.631861] NVRM: failed to unregister from the  ACPI subsystem!
Mar 13 20:57:25 mike-desktop kernel: [   18.708078] NVRM:  failed to register with the ACPI subsystem!
Mar 13 20:57:30 mike-desktop  kernel: [   23.110539] NVRM: RmInitAdapter failed! (0x12:0x2b:1659
(loop..)
```

when I change the driver nvidia to nv in xorg.conf I can boot normally but the flickering persists.

I can never use "nvidia-xconfigure" and "nvidia-settings", it will tell me that the nvidia module isn't loaded (not even after modprobing it).

I have no idea if this is a problem if this is a problem of the motherboard (something that has to do with ACPI) or the fact I'm using a 32 inch screen as my monitor.

just ask if you need more information!

---

### Post by eatingaltoids on 2010-03-14
bump

---

### Post by eatingaltoids on 2010-03-14
After booting in recovery mode and trying to start X with verbose parameters I got some more detailed information:

```
(EE) NVIDIA(0): The NVIDIA kernel module does not appear to
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      be receiving interrupts generated by the NVIDIA graphics
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      device PCI:2:0:0. Please see the COMMON PROBLEMS
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      section in the README for additional information.
```here you can read chapter 8 which tells me:

> 
This can be caused by a variety of problems, such as PCI IRQ routing errors, I/O APIC problems or conflicts with other devices sharing the IRQ (or their drivers).

If possible, configure your system such that your graphics card does not share its IRQ with other devices (try moving the graphics card to another slot if applicable, unload/disable the driver(s) for the device(s) sharing the card's IRQ, or remove/disable the device(s)).

Depending on the nature of the problem, one of (or a combination of) these kernel parameters might also help:
Parameter     Behavior
pci=noacpi     don't use ACPI for PCI IRQ routing
pci=biosirq     use PCI BIOS calls to retrieve the IRQ routing table
noapic     don't use I/O APICs present in the system
acpi=off     disable ACPI
I already have the last parameter so noapic / pci=noacpi are not gonna work anyway I think.

I added the boot parameter irqpoll and pci=biosirq to it but that doesn't help.

---

### Post by eatingaltoids on 2010-03-14
the only thing that changes when I use a normal computer screen is the flickering during the "nv" driver. It still won't boot.

[SIZE=6]TLDR version of the whole story:[/SIZE]

I have to disable my ACPI in my bios.
I can only boot using the nv driver
I want to use the nvidia driver when it boots I get like a blank screen and I can read this error in my kern.log

```
NVRM: failed to register with the ACPI subsystem! 
NVRM: RmInitAdapter failed! (0x12:0x2b:1659) 
NVRM: rm_init_adapter(0) failed
```

when I boot into recovery mode and startx from there it tells me:

```
(EE) NVIDIA(0): The NVIDIA kernel module does not appear to
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      be receiving interrupts generated by the NVIDIA graphics
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      device PCI:2:0:0. Please see the COMMON PROBLEMS
(EE) NVIDIA(0):      section in the README for additional information.
```

tried with different boot options and different screens.

---

### Post by eatingaltoids on 2010-03-14
I can boot great and really fast when turning the ACPI on in the bios

the only problem is that my system will freeze (mostly after 2 minutes turned on)

I tried all combinations with parameters to only use ACPI for some parts (which the nvidia driver needs) and not for the part where it gives such data to crash the kernel including:

```
pci=acpi
acpi=oldboot
acpi_irq_balance 
acpi_irq_balance  acpi_irq_pci=48
acpi_irq_balance  acpi_irq_isa=48
acpi_irq_nobalance 
acpi=ht
acpi=noirq
pci=noacpi
acpi=force
irqpoll
lapic
nolapic
```

with some it doesn't get enough ACPI data at all, with others it can boot with the nvidia drivers but the system crashes anyway.

My last hope is flashing the BIOS in hope they fixed the ACPI part (which they did for some types, don't know for mine).

gonna do that tomorrow

if that fails It's back to windows for me.

Thanks for the support! (sarcasm)

---

### Post by eatingaltoids on 2010-03-15
I solved my problem by flashing the bios.

pretty proud on myself after seeing the foxconn support page for flashing a BIOS (you'll need to download all kinds of trial software from other companies on a windows machine)

So all those errors where ACPI errors fixed in new bios versions.

I needed ACPI turned on for my nvidia card to work with nvidia drivers (instead of the 'nv' drivers).

just need to fix the sound right now.

thanks for the help!

---

