---
title: "7.04 wont boot into gui"
date: 2007-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dontgetshocked on 2007-05-03
For some reason I have been having trouble with the menu showing up after I logout, that is it does not show up, only the hourglass. I de-selected the autologin feature and now it does not get past the hourglass. It loads the splash screen, then the progress bar and then the mouse waiting and thats as far as it gets.

What can I do to fix this?

Ubuntu 7.04
I managed to boot into the root desktop. It says cant start hal so I cant adjust any security. It also says gdm is not started and gnome desktop is not started. It probably is because I had lastly used Beryl. How can I fix this? I tried using the recover feature but this didnt fix anything.

---

### Post by vav on 2007-05-03
If you havent made any major changes to xorg.conf or something while getting beryl to work, you can try this:

When it stops at the hourglass, press Ctrl+Alt+F2
This should get you to a text login. Login with your username.
Do this:
```

cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf ~/

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```
The first step will backup your old configuration to your home directory.
You'll then be prompted for your password, or for root's password. Enter whats requested.

This should get you to a few ascii-graphics screens which let you configure your graphical environment. After you're done, type
```

sudo reboot

```

The next time it should boot properly and show you your login screen... if it does, go to the bottom left of the screen and select options->session->gnome failsafe. Then login as usual, and disable beryl or whatever you think was the problem.

---

### Post by dontgetshocked on 2007-05-03
Well, I tried that and it didnt work for me, now what?

---

