---
title: "9.10 - Error copying to USB devices"
date: 2010-02-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by glittalogik on 2010-02-03
When copying files to USB storage of any sort, Nautilus has started hanging after a few files (varies from 1-200 files and a few MB to over 5GB on various occasions), failing to unmount the device, and eventually throwing up an I/O error and freezing.

If I kill/restart Nautilus and reconnect the device it can still be read but comes up as read-only. I can't copy files to the device again, and attempts to erase and reformat it fail in both Ubuntu and Vista. Oddly enough XP will reformat the device, after which it works properly again.

Please help! I could deal when it happened to my USB key but I just bollocked my mate's portable drive and he's a bit pissed off :-? Seems to be happening on all my USB ports.

---

### Post by jken146 on 2010-02-03
What happens when you just use cp? What errors do you get then? Also, does dmesg say anything relevant?

---

### Post by glittalogik on 2010-02-05
It seems to be behaving right now, but even when it works there tends to be a fairly long pause after the first file is successfully copied, especially with larger (300+MB) files.

I'm testing it now by copying a season of Dexter back and forth using cp, it's copying ok but really slow, and dmesg keeps throwing this up:

```

[  861.168562] sd 8:0:0:0: [sdc] Unhandled sense code
[  861.168565] sd 8:0:0:0: [sdc] Result: hostbyte=DID_ERROR driverbyte=DRIVER_SENSE
[  861.168569] sd 8:0:0:0: [sdc] Sense Key : Hardware Error [current] 
[  861.168574] sd 8:0:0:0: [sdc] Add. Sense: No additional sense information
[  861.168578] end_request: I/O error, dev sdc, sector 3187984
```

UPDATE:

Right, so after that batch copied across to my USB key, I deleted it and tried copying another file, and got this:

```

cp: cannot create regular file `/media/TEVION/Dexter S01E12 - Born Free.srt': Read-only file system

```

dmesg had this:

```

[ 1811.602270] FAT: Filesystem error (dev sdc)
[ 1811.602275]     fat_free_clusters: deleting FAT entry beyond EOF
[ 1811.602277]     File system has been set read-only

```

---

### Post by dcstar on 2010-02-06
You cannot assume that files are copied just because cp concludes.

USB devices are written using a cache which means that the data is still being written to the device well after the OS program has finished its part of the copy procedure.

Unmount the device and **wait** for the message that it is safe to remove or the unmount command concludes or you **will** corrupt your device and lose data.

---

### Post by a2z on 2010-02-06
I too have experienced my usb changing from read/write to read only after un mounting & remounting.


I have been using gparted to format to fat32. 
I'm  using drag & drop. And I wait until the progress bar not only finishes, but closes. 
After it closes, I check my files and they seem to be ok. But if I reboot, it appears my folders turn up with -0- content. But the actual file size remains intact. 
For example, I'd copy a 3GB file folder with sub files & folders. And the top file would turn up empty, but still register using the 3 gig space. 


Also, videos I've copied avi,mov mp3 open to an error.
I've been through many forums and apparently this is an issue for many.

And of course, transfer rate is extremely slow. 
Cache fills up almost instantaneously, Starts transferring at around 15M/sec then drops off to eventually Kb/sec.

Please fix!

Thanks,

a2z
I don't believe I had this problem with jaunty.

PS: For what it's worth, I also have been experiencing trouble with gparted making a dual partition. Fat32 ext2,3,4 
Flash drive problem maybe? Probably not though. I have 7 or 8 I've been using prior to karmic clean install

---

### Post by glittalogik on 2010-02-06
I do always unmount before removing USB drives, when the unmount command has failed here I've left the drive connected overnight before retrying, to no avail.

However, I didn't touch the device in my last post, it started this read-only nonsense whilst still connected and mounted. I just unmounted, disconnected and reconnected, and can write to it again. However, there's still up to a minute's pause in progress after each file is copied before the next one begins.

I assume these are all symptoms of the same issue, but what the hell is going on? I'm so confused =(

---

### Post by john newbuntu on 2010-02-06
Read towards the bottom of:
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Mount/USB](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Mount/USB)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TestingStorageMedia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/TestingStorageMedia)

FWIW try chkdsk from windows or dosfsck from linux as suggested in that second link.  Oh, just delete that .trash folder if you have one on the USB media.

---

### Post by glittalogik on 2010-02-08
This has happened with multiple devices, both flash memory and external HDDs. It's intermittent, inconsistent, and is not due to improper mounting/unmounting, or a single faulty device.

I understand that disconnecting a device without unmounting it *could* be behind some of the filesystem issues (although evidently not all since it's happened at least once without doing so) but that's not the point, this is an I/O problem with various devices that are connected, mounted, and otherwise perfectly functional until this nonsense starts again.

---

