---
title: "18.04LTS Kernal Panic 10-APIC Ongoing Issue"
date: 2019-09-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ron-whyteman on 2019-09-29
Hi, I believed I could sort this boot problem from various advice on web. Not quite there yet ! 
Trying to download boot repair using terminal ( don't want to go into root ). Using posted commands, I get to :
sudo apt update.  Updates load ok. When I then enter sudo apt install boot repair  , it does not recognise command.

Is there an alternative command ? I see that I can download the boot repair on sourceforge's site but worry about security and also downloader with possible junk attached. Would it be the same anyway using terminal ?

My computer is an elderly Dell Dimension E521 so maybe that's part of the problem. Any advice would be greatly appreciated to avoid booting in recovery mode constantly.

Ron.

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-09-30
Hi ron-w, welcome to the forums

How much ram do you have?

Your Dell would be better off with...
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2130640](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2130640)
[https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2415676](https://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2415676)

and we go from there :)

---

### Post by ron-whyteman on 2019-09-30
Thanks, cruzer001
I'm taking time to read through your links. The E521 has 2.0GB ram , 64bit and 243.8GB. If you can suggest some possible fix to try out, I'll give it a go. I did download the 18.04 installation disc and saved to dvd ( file seemed too large for cd ) as I read it contains a boot repair utility. However, it did not recognise on boot options start up.
Many thanks for taking the time to respond.

---

### Post by cruzer001 on 2019-09-30
I have a old laptop running Budgie on two gig of ram, it's slow but usable.  I have had good results with UbuntuMate on older systems and would say it gives a lot of out-of-box features that surpass Budgie and I have ran it on two gig of ram.

That could get you going, but if you could upgrade to a total of 4 gig of ram that would be a better resolve.  FireFox or Chrome can eat up a gig+

What's your thoughts?

---

### Post by ron-whyteman on 2019-10-02
Thanks once again. I take it the boot problem is all down to the lack of ram? I had been running 16.04 without any problem at all. It was only when I upgraded to 18.04 that the boot problem started. I've had a look at Ubuntumate. Looks good. Would I be best to await release of 19.10 coming soon? I see I can add ppa of the current version via terminal. What I do not know is how this affects boot. At moment, I cannot boot/reboot properly. Simply, I wish to take care I do not brick the system when it is at least running.

---

