---
title: "User (vs. root) cannot move to trash, only delete, on ext3 partition"
date: 2010-01-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jnewm on 2010-01-09
Hi all, 

I just wanted to post this in case it helps anyone else.  I have all my personal files (photos, documents, etc.) saved on a separate ext3 partition (so I don't have to worry about them on new installs, etc.).  When I tried to delete files, however, I always received the message: "Cannot move file to trash, do you want to delete immediately?".

After much searching and failed fix attempts (mostly unnecessary messing with fstab), I found this post, which is now archived (or I would have replied there): [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=759544](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=759544).  And frediE's solution, with a couple tiny modifications, finally solved the problem!  (So huge thanks to frediE! :KS).  

First, I found my user id, which is 1000, by going to the System > Administration > Users and Groups menu, selecting my user name (e.g. jnewm), clicking "Properties", and selecting "Advanced".  

Second, I created a folder on the root of my partition called ".Trash-1000".  (I may have needed to use "gksu nautilus" from a terminal to create the folder, I don't recall.)  

Third and last, I navigated to the root of the partition in my terminal and ran: sudo chown -R jnewm:jnewm .Trash-1000. [S] Followed by: sudo chmod -R jnewm .Trash-1000 (I doubt this second step was necessary, but I'm listing it just in case).[/S] (confirmed unnecessary)

And that's it!  Again, thanks to frediE for solving this, I was terrified that I was going to eventually actually delete something I really needed!

jnewm

---

### Post by dspisak on 2010-01-22
Hello.  I think the second command "sudo chmod..." should be "sudo chown..."

---

### Post by janidotux on 2010-02-04
Thank you very much, I had same problem, and after some hours messing with fstab I found this page. Thank you for posting it, and I did not use "sudo chmod -R jnewm .Trash-1000" since I saw that it was not necessarily.

---

### Post by jnewm on 2010-02-04
Awesome, thanks dspisak and janidotux, I cut out the unnecessary step.  I'm really glad the post helped!

---

### Post by Matt G Dalian on 2010-04-04
Hi,

I followed the advice in this thread. It worked after I added one additional step.
I think the difference is how my other partition was mounted: I used NTFS Configuration Tool to do a permanent mount of my Windows 7 partition.

Here's what I did: (based off this link: [http://salonen.wordpress.com/2009/06/14/ubuntu-trash-can-support-on-ntfs-volumes/](http://salonen.wordpress.com/2009/06/14/ubuntu-trash-can-support-on-ntfs-volumes/) )

1. Made a new folder on the root of my Windows 7 partition and called it .Trash-1000
(I did not have to do gksu nautilus)
On my system, this partition was located in /media/OS

2. navigated to to the root of my Windows 7 partition and followed the steps in post #1 above:[INDENT]cd /media/OS
sudo chown -R matt:matt .Trash-1000
[/INDENT]("matt" is my username)

3. Finally, I had to edit fstab, which is located in /etc/fstab:[INDENT]gksudo gedit /etc/fstab
[/INDENT]```
# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=5e5b35b6-c64f-4855-b3fd-f8fc1f5280ae / ext4 errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=4eef1a4b-4192-4934-88dd-587da6c7bb0a none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda3 /media/OS ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
```And I added in uid=1000 to the bottom line:[INDENT]/dev/sda3 /media/OS ntfs-3g defaults,**uid=1000**,locale=en_US.UTF-8 0 0
[/INDENT]Then I restarted my system and I was able to move files from my Windows 7 partition to Trash. (I'm not sure if a restart was necessary; maybe only a logoff/log on was needed).

---

