---
title: "Mounting Fedora Core5 partition problem"
date: 2006-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2006-05-19
I have just installed FC5 on a second 40Gb IDE hard drive on my machine, which has Kubuntu installed on the first 160Gb hard drive alongside WinXP.

I had great problems even getting FC5 to boot to start with but at last have got it running just to look at.  Not over impressed so far; I don't feel as comfortable with it as with Kubuntu.

What I want to do is mount the FC5 partition in Kubuntu in the same way as I have done for Mepis in the past using 
sudo mount /dev/hdb3       /media/mepishome -t ext3
but changing the /media/mepis to /media/fedora

Seemed simple, but when I try the same thing with FC5 using what I thought was the right partition I get an error saying the partition is already mounted or /media/fedora is busy.  I can mount the hdb1 boot partition but not hdb2.

Looking in Gparted the problem seems that /dev/hdb2 is listed as an unknown filesystem and flagged as lvm, and /dev/hdb1 is ext3 and flagged as boot.
hdb2 seems to be divided into two LVM devices, one for linux swap and the other, which I want to mount is ext3 filetype and listed as:-
/dev/mapper/VolGroup00-LogVol001

Please, please, how do I mount this dev in Kubuntu?  I am certain it must be possible, but all I've tried so far has just left me frustrated and confused.

---

### Post by ComplexNumber on 2006-05-19
do you have the lvm packages installed?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2006-05-20
I have lvm2 but no others as far as I can see. What do I need to add for this to work, lvm10?

It may all be a bit unecessary as I,m reinstalling Fedora with a custom partitioning set-up instead of the default which puts /boot on a separate partition and home and root on one of the lvm's.  I'm hoping that with just a root and swap partition pre formatted as ext3, that the system will be more standard.  Perhaps there's a good reason for boot being a separate partition, but I've often read that there is nothing to be gained from such an arrangement.

Thanks anyway for trying.

---

### Post by nejode on 2006-05-22
I can truly understand you because I went through that mess a couple days ago.  The auto-partitioning that Fedora uses by default  is with LVM.  It really messes things up when you got a multiboot install.  What I did was this:
>Custom partitioning with a "/" partition formatted as ext3 (it won't let you use Reiserfs) and forget the "/boot" partition stuff.
>Tell it to format your existing swap partition (if you don't Fedora won't use it!)
>Indicate the partitioner to mount your Kubuntu "/ " partition wherever you like (I used "/media/kubuntu"), because if you don't, Fedora will give you a kernel panic issue trying to mount your Kubuntu partition as it's own "/".
>Finish install and boot into Fedora.
>Log in as root and add your Kubuntu entry in /boot/grub/grub.conf....
....This is my grub.conf file as an ilustration: 

# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd1,0)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/hdb1
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/hda
default=1
timeout=10
splashimage=(hd1,0)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora Core (2.6.16-1.2111_FC5)
	root (hd1,0)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.16-1.2111_FC5 ro root=LABEL=/1 rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.16-1.2111_FC5.img

title Fedora Core (2.6.15-1.2054_FC5)
	root (hd1,0)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5 ro root=LABEL=/1 rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5.img

[B]title Kubuntu, kernel 2.6.12-10-k7 
        root (hd1,4)
        kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.12-10-k7 root=/dev/hdb5 ro quiet splash
        initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.12-10-k7
        savedefault
        boot

title WinXP
	rootnoverify (hd0,0)
	chainloader +1

Then you can boot into Kubuntu and add your Fedora partition in fstab (something like 
"/dev/hdb?    /media/fedora     ext3     defaults   1  2")

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2006-05-24
Thanks nejode.

I did a reinstall of Fedora C5 without the lvm setup and got it running OK, but I am not very comfortable with it at the moment.

Perhaps it's because it is new, perhaps because it is an rpm distro, not a Debian based one, and perhaps because I don't find it as easy to work with as the Ubuntu "sudo" system for root commands, but I don't think I shall stick with it.  I found Mepis much more my style, though even that didn't work as well as Ubuntu, and the forum was nearly a waste of time, with so few people responding to queries.

Once again (K)Ubuntu is the top of the list.  I don't know why I keep looking at others, but I just imagine there must be others that are as good as this one.  So far I haven't found it.  Now I just await for the final Dapper Drake release!

---

