---
title: "10.04: root stole my drive!"
date: 2011-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Tamnakz on 2011-10-31
I've got a USB 2tb external NTFS partition.

I've once in awhile had issues, but never anything major until a few weeks ago.

Root stole her from me. <snip> went behind my back and took all the permissions. . .

Using 'gksudo nautilus' I can edit the owner to my own user, but not file access. It appears the 'owner' choice will save through the nautilus, or after I 'own' it in my own browser. When I change file access under nautilus, it saves, but does not carry over when I close the browser. The ownership saves, the drive belongs to me now, but the file access reverts back to '...' and every time I try to change it to read and write it automatically changes back to '. . .'

If ANYONE can help me, please throw something out there. I've been chasing this problem for weeks, had a few people try to talk me through fixes, nothing has worked . . .

I tried becoming SU in terminal, and mounting/force mounting the drive, but all I get is a response:
```

Usage: mount -V                 : print version
       mount -h                 : print this help
       mount                    : list mounted filesystems
       mount -l                 : idem, including volume labels
So far the informational part. Next the mounting.
The command is `mount [-t fstype] something somewhere'.
Details found in /etc/fstab may be omitted.
       mount -a [-t|-O] ...     : mount all stuff from /etc/fstab
       mount device             : mount device at the known place
       mount directory          : mount known device here
       mount -t type dev dir    : ordinary mount command
Note that one does not really mount a device, one mounts
a filesystem (of the given type) found on the device.
One can also mount an already visible directory tree elsewhere:
       mount --bind olddir newdir
or move a subtree:
       mount --move olddir newdir
One can change the type of mount containing the directory dir:
       mount --make-shared dir
       mount --make-slave dir
       mount --make-private dir
       mount --make-unbindable dir
One can change the type of all the mounts in a mount subtree
containing the directory dir:
       mount --make-rshared dir
       mount --make-rslave dir
       mount --make-rprivate dir
       mount --make-runbindable dir
A device can be given by name, say /dev/hda1 or /dev/cdrom,
or by label, using  -L label  or by uuid, using  -U uuid .
Other options: [-nfFrsvw] [-o options] [-p passwdfd].
For many more details, say  man 8 mount .
root@TamnakzPC:/home/tamnakz# mount /media/tamnakz ext 1tba
Usage: mount -V                 : print version
       mount -h                 : print this help
       mount                    : list mounted filesystems
       mount -l                 : idem, including volume labels
So far the informational part. Next the mounting.
The command is `mount [-t fstype] something somewhere'.
Details found in /etc/fstab may be omitted.
       mount -a [-t|-O] ...     : mount all stuff from /etc/fstab
       mount device             : mount device at the known place
       mount directory          : mount known device here
       mount -t type dev dir    : ordinary mount command
Note that one does not really mount a device, one mounts
a filesystem (of the given type) found on the device.
One can also mount an already visible directory tree elsewhere:
       mount --bind olddir newdir
or move a subtree:
       mount --move olddir newdir
One can change the type of mount containing the directory dir:
       mount --make-shared dir
       mount --make-slave dir
       mount --make-private dir
       mount --make-unbindable dir
One can change the type of all the mounts in a mount subtree
containing the directory dir:
       mount --make-rshared dir
       mount --make-rslave dir
       mount --make-rprivate dir
       mount --make-runbindable dir
A device can be given by name, say /dev/hda1 or /dev/cdrom,
or by label, using  -L label  or by uuid, using  -U uuid .
Other options: [-nfFrsvw] [-o options] [-p passwdfd].
For many more details, say  man 8 mount 
```.

My knowledge and understanding here is limited, but I've been able to make Ubuntu work for me for almost six years now. . . This is the biggest hitch I've hit yet.

Much thanks for any help ya'll can give me!

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2011-10-31
First of all, Linux permissions won't apply to NTFS partitions. They're simply not compatible. The ntfs-3g driver *translates* permissions according to mount options but that's all.

If you have this drive attached all the time, the simplest solution is to edit **/etc/fstab** and make this drive auto-mounted at startup. Here's a [HOWTO](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Fstab) and [another one](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MountingWindowsPartitions). Make sure you have write permissions for the mount point.

If you want to mount the drive manually from time to time, you could write a one-liner script with **mount** command. Mount options should be something like: defaults,nls=iso8859-1,uid=1000,umask=000,windows_names.

---

### Post by Tamnakz on 2011-10-31
My device name is recognized as /Tamnakz Ext 1TBa and I would like the mount point to be /media

After reading, can I use the device title, or do I have to find the UUID? It doesn't list this drive with 'blkid'

This is what I've got as for an fstab addition to automount the drive, based on the first link posted, but it doesn't fit the format of what's already in the file. Any comments?

/Tamnakz Ext 1TBa /media auto defaults 0 0

Also, the fstab file is read only except for root, what's the easiest way for me to edit it? i.e. I've never had to do anything as root unless I was walked through it, what's the easiest way to log in as/gain root privileges in regards to the file?

Thanks again for the help folks!

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2011-11-02
> **Tamnakz said:**
> My device name is recognized as /Tamnakz Ext 1TBa
That's not what you need. You need something like **/dev/sdb1** where the last two characters are the ID of the drive and the partition number. Use **sudo fdisk -l** or **sudo parted -l** to list partitions.

Alternatively you can use UUIDs.

> **Tamnakz said:**
> It doesn't list this drive with 'blkid'
Are you sure? Keep in mind that **blkid** also lists partitions in /dev/sdXX format.

---

### Post by nothingspecial on 2011-11-02
You can use gparted to label the device. Then unmount it.

Then back up your fstab

```
sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab_bak
```

Then mount it in fstab with ntfs-3g like so (eg you labeled it stuff)

```
LABEL=stuff /media/stuff ntfs-3g defaults,en_GB.utf8 0 0
```

To see your available locales (the en_GB.utf8 bit), type ```
locale -a
```

Check it works by typing ```
sudo mount -a
```

---

### Post by Tamnakz on 2011-11-03
> **prodigy_ said:**
> That's not what you need. You need something like **/dev/sdb1** where the last two characters are the ID of the drive and the partition number. Use **sudo fdisk -l** or **sudo parted -l** to list partitions.

Alternatively you can use UUIDs.


Are you sure? Keep in mind that **blkid** also lists partitions in /dev/sdXX format.

Odd. . . Trying to figure out the location name, I ran 'blkid' as the SU in terminal, and it listed each drive by labeled name as well as the format you said I needed. The drive I need to mount is 'sdc1'

Two questions
First, is this label static? or if I change usb ports/remove the drive for a day will it relist it?
Second, Is there more information I need to be able to edit the fstab file? . . .and does the following look more along the lines of what I need to add? 
/sdc1 /media auto defaults 0 0

Drive location, where I want it, auto detect file type, default options, no backup, and no fsck

Thanks again for the help folks. Apologies for asking so many (what may seem) trivial questions. . . I can tutor you on DNA replication processes, but even after reading the links three times over and four hours of research to try to understand what I read, this stuff just doesn't click in my head!

Good day/night to all!

---

### Post by Tamnakz on 2011-11-03
After finding the location to be /dev/sdc1 I tried to mount the drive. . . to which it told me it was already mounted. 

I've gotten the permissions to save as my user 'Tamnakz' which is what I normally use, with read/write permissions enabled for folders, but it won't allow me to edit the file options. Options are 'read only' 'read write' and '...' It is set to the elipses '...' and will not allow me to change it, I can pull down the drop down menu and click a choice, it automatically reverts back to '...' regardless of choice.

Is this telling me my problem is completely unrelated to mounting? . . . or is it just me?

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2011-11-04
> **Tamnakz said:**
> First, is this label static?
Yes, it will persist until you delete/re-format the partition. Switching the drive to a different USB port won't have any effect on partition labels or UUIDs.

> Second, Is there more information I need to be able to edit the fstab file? . . .and does the following look more along the lines of what I need to add? 
/sdc1 /media auto defaults 0 0
Yeah. I've never tried **auto** with NTFS, but most probably it will work. If it won't, specify **ntfs-3g** explicitly. As for options you might want to add something like: **uid=1000,gid=1000,dmask=022,fmask=133,utf8,windows_names**. Substitute your actual UID/GID (if unsure, use **id** command to find out).

> I tried to mount the drive. . . to which it told me it was already mounted.
Use **mount** w/o any parameters to list mounted partitions. Then **sudo umount** <partition> to unmount (for partitions mounted in usermode you might need to use **fusermount -u** <partition> instead).

---

