---
title: "Display on 3 Monitors ATI"
date: 2008-12-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by deadl0v3 on 2008-12-19
Good Morning,

I've been working ony my ubuntu partition for the last 3 days trying to figure out how to display onto three monitors.  

Currently, I have only been able to get 2 to display.  The third monitor detects input, but ubuntu does not detect it.  

I did a little research and ended up trying to mess with xorg.conf.  So it looks like this now:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Option		"VideoOverlay"	"on"
	Option		"OpenGLOverlay"	"off"
	Driver		"fglrx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Q9R
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"VK"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Q9"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier "HD3870"
	Driver "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier "HD34500"
	Driver "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier "HD34501"
	Driver "fglrx"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "left"
	Device "HD34500"
	Monitor "Q9R"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "mid"
	Device "HD3870"
	Monitor "VK"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier "right"
	Device "HD34501"
	Monitor "Q9"
EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection


I've also tried to use the tutorials for setting up dual screens to see if I could get them to display all three, but to no avail.

Here is the hardware that I believe is relevant to this discussion:

Video Card 1: Radeon HD3870 by Diamond
	Hosts the one wide screen monitor VK
Video Card 2: Radeon HD3450 by Asus
	Hosts the standard monitors Q9R and Q9

MoBo: P5K Pro by Asus

Any advice would be greatly appreciated.  I already backed up my data so I don't mind playing lab rat and crashing my system.  

Thanks,
Matt

---

### Post by deadl0v3 on 2008-12-21
Anyone have a solution yet?  

Bugger-all, I can't seem to find one still.

Happy Holidays,
Matt

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-12-21
Here is a thread where someone has gotten 3 monitors sort of working. The xorg.conf file is there so that may help you to write yours properly.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014125](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014125)

---

### Post by tuxxy on 2008-12-21
This would be so simple if you had nVidia card as it could be done from nvidia-settings graphical tool, its a shame that ATI catalyst centre doesnt provide such facility?

---

### Post by markbuntu on 2008-12-21
If you are using the ati drivers 8.10 or later, you should be able to configure them in the Catalyst Control Center or by using sudo aticonfig from the terminal.

aticonfig --help

---

### Post by deadl0v3 on 2008-12-23
Edit- Irrelevant ranting!

-Matt

---

