---
title: "1920x1080 32&quot; LCD TV"
date: 2009-02-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2009-02-18
I'm planning on buying this:

LG LCD TV 32" Model 32LG50

The max resolution will be 1920x1080, hence I intend to use my Ubuntu 8.10 at this resolution. It will be connected through HDMI port from my motherboard (chipset 780G, I read it's quite capable)

What do you think of this?
Will I still enjoy the sharpness of fonts, colors, applications, firefox browser, office, I get at my 15.4" laptop?
Do you think is too much?
Am I sick?
Should I be put down?

=)

Anything you may comment on this I'd like to hear.

Thanks! Bye!

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2009-02-19
Really need this to be commented.

---

### Post by punx45 on 2009-02-19
in my experience, HDTVs arent quite as good for general use as a computer monitor.   i have both 1080 (sony) and 720 (samsung) tvs, and while the 1080 is certainly better than the 720, neither are truly good enough to serve as a primary monitor, especially with text.   they are great for watching videos etc though.  but for text, its the macbook monitor, hands down.

edit:

of course, now that i have said this i plugged in to my 720 tv, at 1360 x 768 (native rez of the tv i think) and the text is better than i remember.   not so bad after all.   so as long as your hardware supports the native resolution of the tv, it shouldnt be bad.   other resolutions look like rubbish though.

---

### Post by handy on 2009-02-19
I use a 24" monitor, at 1920x1200 & it is superb.  I can't imagine why I would want a larger monitor, I think personally it would become counter productive.

I spend my time at the computer sitting approx' 4 feet back from the screen & typing with my keyboard on my lap.

If the screen was much bigger I would be moving my head like I was at a tennis match when reading a web page. :p

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2009-02-19
Do you think it would be possible to show black bars around a smaller resolution than the native of the TV? Is that something like an option that the LCD should provide (meaning things like 1:1, just scan, etc.)?

Thanks for the replies.

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2009-02-19
Up

---

### Post by alejandro.mc on 2009-02-19
Bounce

---

### Post by punx45 on 2009-02-19
that you will have to check on the specs of the TV

---

