---
title: "is 18.04 killing my ssd?"
date: 2018-07-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dwbauer-p on 2018-07-08
My hdd light never stops blinking with activity, every 2 sec.  I logged disk io with iotop for as much as 12 hours.  I was alarmed to see that fstrim -av after 12 hours shows 211 Gb trimmed.  I wonder how long this SSD will survive in that box?

When Xubuntu became available as download from xubuntu.org I installed it to a ASUS PRIME B350-PLUS MB with Samsung 250Gb M.2 960 evo SSD. Board has 16Gb ram.  Only Additional install is for my backup software and openssh-client/server & iotop.  I only have a basic xubuntu install.
Size is < 10Gb ext4 ssd filesystem, noatime on /etc/fstab SSD,vm.swappiness=1 on /etc/sysctl.conf.  I am just ssh'd into system from another networked computer, I am running nothing & only programs running are what execs in startup. HDD led blinks every 2 secs.

iotop shows r/w/ [jbd2/nvme0n1p2-] which is journaling for ext4 for 08:50:21, 08:50:27, 08:50:33, . . .n with imbeded kworker threads during these times, which show 0.0/Bps. nvme0n1p2 is my / root partition I have reached the end of the internet in searches to solve this problem.  I have searched at least 3 days/wk for the last 2 months for solutions & have tried some to no avail.  I have been an avid Xubuntu user since 2006 and now have 5 Xubuntu boxes here.  When new LTS releases are introduced I use Aptik to perform clean installs on all my
computers.

Any Ideas?

Note: Installing 16.04 has same results. Samsung 960 evo was updated w/latest firmware. MB bios is latest. I am writing this email on Asus M.2 box with an older motherboard and M.2 SSD which has NO blinking hdd.  (imagine that! go figure)?

---

### Post by mc4man on 2018-07-08
Don't know about the blinking hd lights but what does hd activity have to do with fstrim?
(- the number reported likely is the  free space on your / partition in GiB

---

### Post by dwbauer-p on 2018-07-08
I believe that trim is telling me about # of deleted blocks.  If running trim on my device results in 200Gb of deleted blocks, my device used, deleted & removed those blocks.  If my device deleted 200Gb in trim, I must have written 200Gb to my device.  If my system is booted and idle, E.G. nothing has run for 12 hours, why does 200Gb of writes occur?

---

### Post by wildmanne39 on 2018-07-08
*Thread moved to **General Help for a more appropriate fit**.*

---

### Post by mc4man on 2018-07-09
> **dwbauer-p said:**
> I believe that trim is telling me about # of deleted blocks.  If running trim on my device results in 200Gb of deleted blocks, my device used, deleted & removed those blocks.  If my device deleted 200Gb in trim, I must have written 200Gb to my device.  If my system is booted and idle, E.G. nothing has run for 12 hours, why does 200Gb of writes occur?
No, not at all. Read the fstrim man page about what the verbose option does or do a web search of fstrim verbose reporting.

---

### Post by dwbauer-p on 2018-07-09
No matter what trim reports and what it represents, I have run iotop and logged 12 hours of ssd writes.  For a system that is running no applications, not supposed to write anything, there are too many writes.
I re-examined a iotop log and removed log entries with no IO, leaving only IO log rows.  I sorted the remaining IO rows by time.  I have not summed the IO column, but the following represents rows 26058-26062.

21:41:27 Total DISK READ :       0.00 B/s | Total DISK WRITE :      11.71 K/s
21:41:33 Actual DISK READ:       0.00 B/s | Actual DISK WRITE:      11.71 K/s
21:41:39 Actual DISK READ:       0.00 B/s | Actual DISK WRITE:      11.71 K/s
21:41:39 Total DISK READ :       0.00 B/s | Total DISK WRITE :       3.90 K/s
21:41:45 Actual DISK READ:       0.00 B/s | Actual DISK WRITE:      11.71 K/s

26k rows/12 hrs are too many writes.

---

### Post by HermanAB on 2018-07-09
On UNIX systems, logs are always going.  This is good for analysing what went wrong later.

As for the SSD, don't worry about it.  It will very likely outlast you.

---

### Post by rattskjelke on 2018-07-09
> **dwbauer-p said:**
> ...For a system that is running no applications, not supposed to write anything, there are too many writes....

Disconnect or disable all network interfaces and see if it still happens.

I noticed something similar and found it was the firewall logging everything. I disabled firewall logging and I no longer have constant disk writes when the computer is idle.

---

