---
title: "2.6.20 Network Problems (Edgy)"
date: 2007-02-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by russell.h on 2007-02-08
I compiled 2.6.20 the other day according to the guide here:
[http://www.howtoforge.com/kernel_compilation_ubuntu](http://www.howtoforge.com/kernel_compilation_ubuntu)

Everything went quite well, the compile came off with no errors, etc. I installed it and went to reboot. I went through an irrelevant runaround with GRUB, and after I got that worked out was able to boot the new kernel. Everything seems to work fine with one major exception:

The network seems not to work. I open gaim and it can't connect, firefox can't see any websites, etc.

I compiled the kernel once more to make sure, and it had the same problem agaain.

Anyone have any ideas?

Thanks,

Russell

---

### Post by DagMan on 2007-02-09
When I did this, I downloaded a kernel image from feisty using ubuntu package search and selecting feisty.  This gave me the config file to start with and I made the further changes from there, you can probably jsut extract the config file from the .deb without installing it but it's not what I did so I can't say for certain.  I downloaded the source also using the package search selecting feisty.
This sort of assured that I was going to have all the drivers and other options that I needed.
It is, however, the biggest kernel compile I have done.  I have /usr/src/ on it's own partition and had 1.8 gigs free but ran out of room before it was compiled and had to compile elsewhere.  The resulting deb package with the kernel headers was 200+ megabytes.

I would suspect that with the kernel you compiled, it needed a patch to enable a networking device driver you needed, or that there was a networking option needed which wasn't selected.

---

### Post by russell.h on 2007-02-09
Good idea, thanks, I'll give that a try.

---

### Post by russell.h on 2007-02-09
I did it, and it worked. Thanks,

Russell

---

