---
title: "12.04.3 behaving badly"
date: 2014-04-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jimmcshane on 2014-04-02
Having had to buy a new Laptop after my trusty one expired, I bought a new one erased windows 8 and installed Precise Pangolin which I have used since it was first released,
but now it is installed it will mount CD/DVD, USB Drives but not run them, so I cannot install an other version of Ubuntu.
What I need I need to do do is erase clear the hard disk and start again with another version.
Is there a Terminal command to do this ??.

Many Thanks

Jimmcshane

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-04-02
Can you boot from a live CD ?

---

### Post by Bashing-om on 2014-04-02
jimmcshane; Hi !

In respect to bapoumba's last; Windows 8 = UEFI = a whole new ball game in the booting arena.
How one changes "bios" to permit booting another operating system varies with each and every manufacturer - I am aware that some rare few do not even provide that capability. You will have to read and understand your documentation to boot up a different operating system - inclusive of a liveDVD/USB.

Installing on a UEFI system also has it's challenges. Others can advise better I am sure - but, maybe release 12.04.3 does not fully support UEFI ? and one has to jump through additional hoops to install 12.04 .
GPT partitioing ( ya want to keep !)
EFI boot partition ( may have to make that partition prior to installing )
Boot up the liveDVD/USB in UEFI mode ( uhh, does 12.04.3 support this ?, not sure)

I can not from my own experience offer a solution ->
[INDENT][INDENT]just some pointers on where to look
[/INDENT][/INDENT]

---

### Post by jimmcshane on 2014-04-02
Sadly No

---

### Post by jimmcshane on 2014-04-02
Hi Bashing0om,

Having successfully removed Windows 8 form other laptops for Family, they are running 12.04.2 although may have updated,
I have installed 12.04.2 without any problems, it just seems this version does'nt want to behave.
I think I may be out an other £400 for a new laptop.

Regards 

jimmcshane

---

### Post by bapoumba on 2014-04-02
Buying another laptop is for sure a radical fix :)

Please insert a cd or usb thumb drive and paste the output to 
```
uname -a
sudo blkid
```

---

