---
title: "Delivery Point Bar Code in OpenOffice? Got 2B Kidding!"
date: 2009-12-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by clevertomato on 2009-12-14
I just discovered that OpenOffice doesn't have a simple "print delivery point bar code" option for envelopes like MS Word does. I used this all the time in Word. Ok, so I searched and found some instructions on how to accomplish it. Wow. Talk about a hassle. I downloaded a USPS Bar Code font, installed it. Then, according to instructions went through a stone-age process of summing the zip code digits, determining what number would make that sum end in zero when added to it, then appending that digit to the end of the zip code, and finally wrapping the whole number sequence in square brackets. THEN selecting it and changing the font to the USPS Bar Code font. WOW. Can you say NOT human friendly. Folks, we're using computers here, but to print a bar code the HUMAN is required to do all this crazy calculation?!

Ok, so I tried all this just to see if it would work (there's no way I'd jump through all these hoops on a regular basis), and when I was all done I compared it to the bar code generated on MS Word 2003 on another of my PCs. After all that, the bar codes don't match! Naturally I'm inclined to trust the one generated in Word, not the one generated by the funky monkey process I had to go through (even though I double-checked MY calculations and am certain I followed instructions to a T).


[LIST=1]
[*]** Has anyone had success in generating an accurate post net delivery point bar code in OpenOffice?**
[*]**Is there an easier way than described above?**
[*]**Is there a native GNU/Linux application that would do this more accurately and with less hassle?**
[/LIST]

---

### Post by clevertomato on 2009-12-16
bumpity bump

---

