---
title: "Open Office 2 Thumbnails in Feisty?"
date: 2007-05-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pdoconnell on 2007-05-24
I just made the transition from vista to ubuntu, and I like it so far. The one feature that I'd really like to transition though is the thumbnail view of open office documents like there was in explorer. Is that just a feature that hasn't been implemented in nautulus or am I missing a tickbox somewhere to turn it on?

---

### Post by Limitlesschannels on 2007-05-27
This is actually a great feature in the windows version that seems to be unavailable in linux.  I would like this as well, but I don't even know how thumbnails are handled under ubuntu.  Is it native to the window manager? maybe this is just another reason why nautilus is awful

---

### Post by sabrewolf2006 on 2007-05-27
I think it should be enabled by default but here is a HOWTO to do this..
[http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Thumbnails_Ooo2](http://doc.gwos.org/index.php/Thumbnails_Ooo2)

As far as generating thumbnails goes for nautilus.. thumbnails are usually generated by a helper application such as gnome-video-thumnailer..

Maybe it should be suggested as a feature request?

---

### Post by pdoconnell on 2007-05-27
Is that going to work in Feisty without breaking anything? I finally got it stable and I'd prefer not to have to reinstall it again.

---

### Post by Limitlesschannels on 2007-05-28
hah, I will test it out and post my results here once i set it up.  then you can know if it worked for me.

---

### Post by pdoconnell on 2007-05-28
I tried it out, it didn't break anything and it worked fine. I have to wonder, why isn't this set on by default?

---

### Post by sabrewolf2006 on 2007-05-28
> **pdoconnell said:**
> I tried it out, it didn't break anything and it worked fine. I have to wonder, why isn't this set on by default?

I've been wondering about this myself..
I would suppose it is because its rather hack-ish in nature.. for example.. all thumbnails generated by other thumnailers are placed in ~/.thumbnails with an appropriate hash number which uniquely identifies the file its generated from.. (note: this is just inferred.. I have no actual source to prove this is what happens)

---

### Post by strabes on 2007-05-28
This feature is enabled by default in konqueror

---

