---
title: "12.04.2 with 3.5.xx Confuses Grub &amp; Me 2. How About U"
date: 2013-02-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bogan on 2013-02-15
Hi! **All,**

**Edit 2**: [COLOR=Blue]The double entry problem has been corrected by re-installing.[/COLOR] I will post details ASOP.

Before installing 12.04.2 I was aware that it would include the 3.5.0 kernal in place of the 3.2.0 version that came with 12.0.4.1, and that the Precise versions of linux-headers and images were already listed in Synaptic, as "12.04.2" was returned by '/etc/lsb-release'; even before the upgrade.

As the upgrade was not available from Update Manager, I created a LiveDVD and installed to a formatted root partition, sd8.
What I did not expect was that it would be possible to boot into both.

My Grub Menu now has two pairs of entries labelled:
    17    menuentry 'Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS (12.04)
    18    submenu 'Advanced options for Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS (12.04)
    19    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-37-generic-pae (on /dev/sda5)
    20    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-37-generic-pae (recovery mode) (on /dev/sda5)
    21    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-37-generic (on /dev/sda5)
    22    menuentry 'Ubuntu, with Linux 3.2.0-37-generic (recovery mode) (on /dev/sda5)
    And another pair labelled:
    23    menuentry 'Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS (12.04)
    24    submenu 'Advanced options for Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS (12.04)
    25    menuentry 'Ubuntu,12.04.2 with 3.5.0-23-generic sda8 (on /dev/sda8)
    26    menuentry 'Ubuntu,12.04.2 with 3.5.0-23-generic sda8 (recovery mode) (on /dev/sda8)
   To make it even more confusing, whilst sd8 is the /root, sda5 was and is the /home partition.

This is from the grub in my main 12.10 installation; the one in 12.04.2 is even more confused, with 69 entries, some of them with several lines of text without EOL tags. 

Boots with lines 23 to 26, all proceed normally; booting from 17 to 22 produce a Ubuntu flash screen saying: "12.04  The disk drive for /home is not ready yet or does not exist", with options to wait, skip or xxx. [Edit:See below]

Pressing 's' for 'skip' produces an apparently normal GUI Login screen, but logging in merely recycles to the greeter login, as it would if there was no driver for the video/kernal.
Pressing 'Ctrl+Alt+F1' gives a normal tty saying it is 3.2.0.37-generic-pae and that is what 'uname -r' returns.
It also shows - above the login prompt - "No directory. Logging in with HOME=/", and after logging in 'ls' returns the normal list of Home folders.

Any suggestions for sorting out the confusion studied gratefully.

Please note: Grub Customizer is not a viable option as it produces multiple duplicate garbled entries with 12.10 & grub2 when there are several disks.

I am Posting separately about other problems.

**Edit**: The 'xxx' option referred to is 'm' for "manually recover" which drops to a Root prompt.

**EDIT 2**: [COLOR=Blue]The main problem has been cured by formatting both Root & Home and reinstalling.[/COLOR]

Chao!, **bogan**.

---

### Post by bogan on 2013-02-17
Hi!, All,

As the main problem Posted  - a double grub menu entry - was due to a stupid mistake, *{formatting the /home partition and installing 12.04.2 to it, instead of the / root}*,  I am marking this as 'Solved'.

For details of the other Grub menu problems with 12.04.2 see discussion in:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2076205](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2076205)

---

