---
title: "7.04 uses onboard sound, not SB Live!; also .iso mounting problems"
date: 2007-11-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Entity` on 2007-11-11
My first problem is that linux is using the terrible onboard sound on my "new" computer instead of the SB Live! card i installed before installation.  How do i get the sound to use the SB Live! instead of the crappy onboard.  Also I never was able to get the line-in or the mic inputs on the card to work in linux, but they work fine in windows.

My second problem is that after long last i was able to find and download an iso image of one of my favourite games.  Unfortunately, i have neither the burning hardware in this same pc or the knowledge to manually mount it.  Ive already tried google and found several command lines, but none of them worked for me.  Someone please show me how.

---

### Post by 2shanfernando on 2007-11-11
Hi,

You should disable the onboard sound through the BIOS. ALSA can handle more than one sound card however. (System -> Preferences -> Sound)

About mounting an ISO see [the HOWTO]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=87369") regarding mounting inside nautilus:) or otherwise you can mount it like this:
```

sudo mkdir /media/games/MyGame
sudo mount -t iso9660 -o loop MySuperCoolGame.iso /media/games/MyGame

```

---

### Post by Entity` on 2007-11-12
This is related.

The game i mounted and installed was Sim City 3000 Unlimited for linux.  Now I cant even run it.  When I try to I get this:

```
user@Linux-pc:~$ sc3u
sc3u: relocation error: sc3u: symbol _dl_global_scope, version GLIBC_2.0 not defined in file ld-linux.so.2 with link time reference
```

It installed without a hitch although I had to toy around with admin privs. until l finally figured out how to get the sh to build under sudo.

I also try to run the update and I get this:

```
user@Linux-pc:~$ sudo sh sc3u-2.0a-x86.run
Verifying archive integrity...tail: Warning: "+number" syntax is deprecated, please use "-n +number"
OK
Uncompressing SimCity 3000 Unlimited 2.0a Updatetrap: 154: cd /tmp; /bin/rm -rf $tmpdir; exit $res: bad trap
```

Also I disabled the onboard sound and now have no sound.  And how do I uninstall an sh package?

---

