---
title: "Help Opening .run File"
date: 2009-09-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JaxaWinder on 2009-09-10
Hey everyone. Let me start off by mentioning I'm a total new user when it comes to Linux and Ubuntu is the first time I've ever used Linux and installed it on my box.

Now with that said I do know the commands in how to extract/install contents of a .run file.

The question I have is I'm trying to extract/install files from a .run file and I repeatedly get an error message that the file has bad checksums that don't match. I've tested other .run files and they all work fine. Just not this particular file.

I'm thinking either it needs to be extracted from an older build of Linux or that the file itself is corrupt in some way. (my lack of knowledge guessing)

Any help is appreciated.

[ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quake3/source/linuxq3a-sdk-1.32.x86.run](ftp://ftp.idsoftware.com/idstuff/quake3/source/linuxq3a-sdk-1.32.x86.run)

---

### Post by ckonestroh on 2009-09-10
No file does not match checksum... 

Or another way of saying it has a serial number if the numbers don't match then it will not build the package or run file....

Best way is look for same file designed to run in Ubuntu... Do a google search....

later...

---

### Post by ckonestroh on 2009-09-10
Never mind this is a game file...

run...

Wine first then load game....

---

### Post by Chronon on 2009-09-10
It's a sh script that looks corrupted.  It should be a human readable file, AFAIK.  Partway down the text turns into garbled characters, kind of like a binary opened in a text editor.  It looks like the script was autogenerated somehow and it didn't come out right.

```
#!/bin/sh
# This script was generated using Makeself 2.0.1

```

---

### Post by JaxaWinder on 2009-09-10
This is a file containing source code files/tree to install.

---

### Post by Chronon on 2009-09-10
Well, some of the contents are corrupted if the checksum doesn't match.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-09-10
> **Chronon said:**
> It's a sh script that looks corrupted.  It should be a human readable file, AFAIK.  Partway down the text turns into garbled characters, kind of like a binary opened in a text editor.  It looks like the script was autogenerated somehow and it didn't come out right.

No it should be like that I think. It starts with a bash script, the garbled part is a tar compressed "file" that the script extracts. Not sure what the problem is with the file (if any), Im trying to download it but I'm getting a stunning 0.5K/s :s

edit: get the same error as everyone else, but just so you know, its generated by that bash script. You could probably change the script to override the check if you find an editor able to open a partly binary file, but i suggest you contact the authors.

---

