---
title: "9.10 will not boot  Tried everything I could."
date: 2009-12-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by pepsifx357 on 2009-12-09
I just installed 9.10 64 bit on my machine with a little trouble.  In live mode, Ubuntu said that my Seagate 80GB harddrive was failing and had to many bad sectors.  So, I used the Gparted tool live and continued to install it.  It came up with a quick error at the end about not being able to create the swap area but I hit continue.  I've installed it twice now.  It will not boot.  The first time it gave me a grub error 17 and now I get a blank screen with a cursor, like it is looking for a boot sector.  I tried using super grub boot disk and it said failed to fix MBR.

I'm stuck now.  Help would be appreciated.

Thanks,

Ben

---

### Post by Onesimus on 2009-12-09
Might I suggest you get a new hard disk.

---

### Post by Chesamo on 2009-12-09
I concur with Onesimus. It sounds like you need a trip to NewEgg.

---

### Post by wojox on 2009-12-09
If this is a fresh install and your not dual booting download and run dban and scrub the drive.

---

### Post by argosreality on 2009-12-09
Yea, you need a new drive. Granted, the latest Ubuntu 9.10 installer seems far more sensitive to smart errors than previous versions but if the drive starts showing bad sectors or smart errors just pickup a new disk. 

Save yourself alot of time

---

### Post by pepsifx357 on 2009-12-09
It ran fine with Windows(An hour ago).  The drive isn't that old.  Maybe a year.  Right now I'm downloading Hiren's Boot CD to see if I can scrub it.

81 Bad sectors

---

### Post by The Bright Side on 2009-12-09
Yeah check it with some tools, try to install Jaunty or Windows again to see if perhaps it's a software issue, and once you determine that it's in fact the hard disk, well you'll need a new one...

---

### Post by pepsifx357 on 2009-12-09
I checked it with a few programs.  Hddat2 wouldn't even read the first block.  Some other program ran right through a surface scan and didn't find anything.  All of the WIPE programs stalled and had errors on the first block, so I thinking the drive is F*&ked.  Kinda sucks.  On the same computer, I have a Terabyte Raid5 array that I resized and installed 9.10 on that.  I'm writing this post on it.  Works fine.  Still have a hard drive error at the top right.  Don't feel like removing it now.

Thanks for the help guys.

Ben

---

