---
title: "Help with 'make' error, please"
date: 2011-08-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Man_Beach on 2011-08-18
I'm trying to compile a simple program called 'Coverfetcher', which downloads cover art from last.fm.

I've followed the instructions at [https://bitbucket.org/obeythepenguin/coverfetcher/wiki/How_to_build_Cover_Fetcher](https://bitbucket.org/obeythepenguin/coverfetcher/wiki/How_to_build_Cover_Fetcher)

- I downloaded the source code as in step 1 (had to install mercurial first).
- In a terminal, I changed to the Cover Fetcher source directory  (home/myname/coverfetcher) and ran ./configure.py (had to make it executable first) as in step 2.
- I ran 'make' and got the error:

make: *** No rule to make target `coverfetcher', needed by `all'. Stop.

I'm nearly there - can anyone help me on the last stage, please?

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2011-08-18
Can you post the output from ./configure.py ?

---

### Post by Man_Beach on 2011-08-19
Configuration finished. Type 'make' to build.

---

### Post by Man_Beach on 2011-08-21
I'm new to these things. Could it have anything to do with permissions?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-08-21
no need to go for permissions 

just give " make" 

and then ```
sudo make install
```

---

### Post by haresear on 2011-08-21
Sounds like a problem with syntax or file names used in makefile.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-08-21
post here what you have given and what you got

---

### Post by Man_Beach on 2011-08-21
Well, this is the contents of makefile:

```
# Automatically generated by configure.py.
# Please do not edit this file manually!

.PHONY: all
.DEFAULT: all
all: coverfetcher


CC = gcc
CXX = g++
CFLAGS ?= -Os
CXXFLAGS ?= -Os
LDFLAGS ?= 
QTDIR ?= /usr/lib/qt

CFLAGS += -w -pipe
CXXFLAGS += -w -pipe

PREFIX  ?= /usr/local
BINDIR  ?= $(PREFIX)/bin
LIBDIR  ?= $(PREFIX)/lib
DATADIR ?= $(PREFIX)/share
MANDIR  ?= $(PREFIX)/man
install:

uninstall:

clean:

distclean: clean
	@rm -rf Makefile
```

---

### Post by haresear on 2011-08-21
This is a pretty sparse makefile. It appears to lean heavily on implicit (unstated) make rules, rather than explicit specific compile/link commands. I'm not an expert on implicit make rules, but I know that the implicit rules available can be different for different versions of make. One possibility is that your version of make does not have available enough implicit make rules to construct a specific set of compile/link commands. If this is the case, then you could either try to construct a makefile manually that your version of make understands or try a different version of make.

---

### Post by ubun2freak on 2011-08-21
Just try make all

---

### Post by Man_Beach on 2011-08-22
make all gave the same result. 

I'll see if I can find older versions of make to try. If all else fails, I can always use the .exe file in windows.

---

