---
title: "Compiz stopped working"
date: 2009-02-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by retrodans on 2009-02-06
I have recently installed the new Ubuntu 8 and was setting it up.  Compix and all it's glory was working fine, then, after tweaking some of the settings inside the CCSM it no longer works.  I originally had slide animations when switching desktops, and a swish show desktop effect (among other things).  Any ideas why this may have suddenly happened?

Thanks for your help,
Dan

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2009-02-06
I would try reseting to the default options,
but if you see the 'color filter' plugins is active disable it and retry....
that plugin crashed my compiz with a geforce4 and a tnt2

---

### Post by retrodans on 2009-02-06
Sadly that didn't work, I am also unable to go into visual effects and alter the setting to anything other than none, I get the error 'Desktop effects could not be enabled'.

Thanks
Dan

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2009-02-06
open up a terminal and type 'compiz --replace' there, what does it say when it fails to load up?

---

### Post by retrodans on 2009-02-06
When I typed that in the desktop did some refreshing, then terminal said:

[PHP]
Checking for Xgl: not present. 
Detected PCI ID for VGA: 
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
Trying again with indirect rendering:
Checking for texture_from_pixmap: not present. 
aborting and using fallback: /usr/bin/metacity 
[/PHP]

If it helps, the graphics card on my laptop is an onboard 'Mobile intel Graphics media Accelerator 4500MHD'.

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2009-02-06
cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf

check that composite and aiglx are enabled. also check this out for info on what other options you will need [http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Intel%20with%20AiGLX](http://wiki.compiz-fusion.org/Intel%20with%20AiGLX)
in that doc i think you can ignore the part after your xorg.conf since you had it working before. Do you have the compiz-fusion-icon installed?

---

### Post by retrodans on 2009-02-07
I ran the script recommended, and sadly what was returned was pretty sparce:

[HTML]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection
[/HTML]

I then went through the link you gave me, ammending xorg, after a reboot, ubuntu refused to load the visual operating system anymore.  I had to recover the x server on the recovery mode.  So xorg is now back to the above.

I also have compiz-fusion-icon but it has a habit of breaking things when I run it (mouse, multiple desktops etc...)  I assume this is due to no aglx though.  So I assume I need to somehow get aglx onto my computer, without breaking it, hmm.

Cheers,
Dan

---

### Post by ridetheteapot on 2009-02-07
just asked about the icon thingy cause it does extra stuff to get compiz running correctly with an intel card.

(side note... cat <file> is not a script.)

aiglx is included in your xorg, so you don't need to install it. what you have to do is enable it in the xorg.conf as well as composite and dri, and since that conf is black, all the other stuff to.

that was what you xorg looked like before you even messed with it? it looks even thinner then defualt...

for fuller bodied hair and xorg.confs, you could try $ sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg after you move to tty1 (<ctrl><alt>+f1) and shutdown gnome (sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop)

---

### Post by retrodans on 2009-02-08
I have sadly had to reinstall ubuntu from scratch (due to big issues trying to dual boot vista, but I have created a new post for that).  Since the install, compix works fine, I can now also compare settings.

cat /etc/X11/xorg.conf - same as printed in early reply

So whislt I don't know what the problem was now, it is (for the time being) sorted.

Thankyou for all your help,
Dan

---

