---
title: "12.04 No X server after installing fglrx"
date: 2013-03-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Acharn on 2013-03-15
I recently installed an AMD Radeon HD 6670 graphics card and it works fine with the OpenGL drivers for my normal activities. I really would rather stick with the OpenGL drivers, but there are a couple of games I want to play with Wine that just freeze and I have to log out to do anything again. After installing the drivers and rebooting I come up in a terminal; when I try to run X I get a "segment fault" message. After uninstalling the fglrx drivers I find I'm running Ubuntu 12.04 with kernel 3.5.0-10-generic. Xorg.0.log shows I'm running  X server 1.12.3. xorg.conf is basically empty. Many years ago X would generate a basic xorg.conf for you, but I don't see any such flag in the error message I get. I know there are problems with fglrx and 12.10, but a google search doesn't turn up anything for 12.04. I haven't upgraded because my old card wouldn't give me the resolution I wanted when running 12.10 from a USB stick. I'm happy sticking with 12.04 for the foreseeable future, but is there some way I can get the proprietary drivers to work?

---

### Post by ManamiVixen on 2013-03-15
ATI's official FGLRX driver has dropped support for HD 2XXX - HD 4XXX Cards. Your card is in a strange spot and may have support issues. You might have to run the Open Driver.

---

### Post by Acharn on 2013-03-16
I'm afraid I don't understand. Why do you say my card is in a "strange spot?" According to the download page at amd.com the Radeon HD 6670 is still supported by the Catalyst Control Center 13.1, which I downloaded but have been afraid to mess with until I learn more from experienced forum members. I gather there's some question whether they will drop support under X 1.14, but that isn't an issue here.

---

