---
title: "BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless"
date: 2006-02-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jenkins_t on 2006-02-19
I have a Broadcom Corporation BCM4306 802.11b/g Wireless LAN Controller (rev 03)
on a HP laptop. Ubuntu did not see device. However Mepis will, how can I get driver from Mepis so I can get wlan to work w/ Ubuntu?

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-02-19
check out this one: [https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/WifiDocs/Driver/bcm43xx)

---

### Post by jenkins_t on 2006-02-20
Ndiswrapper worked like a champ!

---

### Post by jenkins_t on 2006-02-20
Well almost like a champ. 

After reboot it didn't pick up wlan.

Will I have to write a startup script or something else for nodiswrapper to modprobe at boot?

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-02-20
[QUOTE=jenkins_t]
After reboot it didn't pick up wlan.
Will I have to write a startup script or something else for nodiswrapper to modprobe at boot?[/QUOTE]
Mine is the same as well, but I just modprobe it bc I don't use wireless too much. You might want to search the forum for that. one possibility is to add ndiswrapper to /etc/modules
```
sudo cp /etc/modules /etc/modules.backup001
sudo gedit /etc/modules
```and add ndiswrapper to the end of the file. 

I think people write scripts to connect to their wireless, so you might wanna look around :-k

---

### Post by carlosqueso on 2006-02-20
```
sudo ndiswrapper -m
``` also works welll if you don't feel comfortable editing your config files yourself.

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-02-20
[QUOTE=carlosqueso]```
sudo ndiswrapper -m
``` also works welll if you don't feel comfortable editing your config files yourself.[/QUOTE]
I totally forgot about that... you might wanna use this one instead of what I posted.

---

### Post by jenkins_t on 2006-02-20
[QUOTE=carlosqueso]```
sudo ndiswrapper -m
``` also works welll if you don't feel comfortable editing your config files yourself.[/QUOTE]

Thanks you all. 
```
sudo ndiswrapper -m
```worked perfect. Ran it, rebooted wlan came up!

Thanks.

---

### Post by Protostar on 2006-02-20
To the OP: What type of HP laptop do you have? I have an HP zd8000, and have ndiswrapper correctly installed, but it takes forever to boot. Anyone know anyway to fix this?

---

### Post by towsonu2003 on 2006-02-21
[QUOTE=Protostar]I have an HP zd8000, and have ndiswrapper correctly installed, but it takes forever to boot. Anyone know anyway to fix this?[/QUOTE]
where does it hang (during boot) ?

---

