---
title: "11.10 USB Installation Problem"
date: 2012-02-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Arukas on 2012-02-04
I did find a simular thread, someone having a problem but not the same problem as me.  I also didn't really understand what they was talking about so I made this one.

  I am using an USB stick, and I followed the Ubuntu instruction on the download website how to make a usb stick.  Ubuntu runs fine, from the USB stick.  After it installs it prompts me to restart.  It doesn't say to remove the USB stick, but I do because if I don't it'll boot from the USB stick again and do nothing.

  When it boots up, the left hand side of my screen is 3/4s the way to the left, and my cursor wraps around.  After I log in, I just get a blank desktop background nothing else, not menu or launcher bars, and nothing else loads up.

  Anyone know how to solve this problem?

-Thanks

---

### Post by Arukas on 2012-02-05
I solve my own problem, but I don't understand why it worked.  At the log in, I had to change the Desktop to the 2D version, and the desktop was messed up but it still displayed.  Then I updated the drivers and OS and all works better.

My problem is I don't understand why what I did worked.  When I use the pendrive ubuntu boots up nicely and work fine.  When I install it, the desktop is messed up.  Even when I chose the 2D option, my moniter display was still shifted to the right and wrapped around.  

Why does the pendrive work fine, but the initial installation doesn't?

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2012-02-05
What are the specifications of your computer?

---

### Post by Arukas on 2012-02-05
Is there an easy way to get my specs of my computer?

---

### Post by LinuxFan999 on 2012-02-05
> **Arukas said:**
> Is there an easy way to get my specs of my computer?
Look up the model of your computer on Google.

---

### Post by aasdfasdfg on 2012-02-05
> **Arukas said:**
> I solve my own problem, but I don't understand why it worked.  At the log in, I had to change the Desktop to the 2D version, and the desktop was messed up but it still displayed.  Then I updated the drivers and OS and all works better.

My problem is I don't understand why what I did worked.  When I use the pendrive ubuntu boots up nicely and work fine.  When I install it, the desktop is messed up.  Even when I chose the 2D option, my moniter display was still shifted to the right and wrapped around.  

Why does the pendrive work fine, but the initial installation doesn't?
The issue has to do with drivers. Ubuntu has a policy about default installation of proprietary software, which is why many people have to mess around with video drivers when installing Ubuntu for the first time.

It sounds like you were essentially running the "LiveCD" software from your pendrive - I haven't seen the LiveCD since Unity was introduced, so I am not sure what kind of session it runs by default. Is it possible it was running a different desktop session than what it ended up installing by default on your drive? For instance, there is the Qt-based "emulation" of the Unity shell that runs better on most hardware, but is less fancy.

Is everything fine now? I can't quite tell from what you posted. If it isn't, try taking a screenshot to see if the "messed up" screen can be seen in the screenshot. I am assuming you know what you're doing with regards to installing proper video drivers, because that is usually my best bet at fixing these kinds of issues.

---

