---
title: "9.10 Keeps Freezing Up Regularly"
date: 2009-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MiddleRiver on 2009-11-04
I am kind of stuck here.  I recently upgraded to 9.10 and immediately my Dell Dimension 2400 / 2 gig ram started freezing randomly.  I looked into the hibernate issue and have not been able to figure it out.

It allows me to reboot with no problem and then I can use for a short time and then it becomes unresponsive especially if it is left alone.

I thought it was a flash problem but I'm not sure.  It locked several times when Pandora and YouTube was playing but after quite some time of listening/watching with no activity.

Any suggestions or links to helpful discussions are greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-04
I suspect hardware.

Run memtest86 from the grub menu.

You should be able to run memtest for four hours with zero errors. If so, your hardware isn't the problem, but I suspect your system will not be able to do that.

---

### Post by MiddleRiver on 2009-11-04
> **Giblet5 said:**
> 

Run memtest86 from the grub menu.



Thanks for the response.  This is my "first cup of Ubuntu" so can you elaborate on how one might go about running a memtest on the grub menu. ;)

Thanks again.

---

### Post by Giblet5 on 2009-11-04
> **MiddleRiver said:**
> Thanks for the response.  This is my "first cup of Ubuntu" so can you elaborate on how one might go about running a memtest on the grub menu. ;)

Thanks again.

When you boot your computer, right after the vendor's logo screen and self-tests, your PC says "Grub loading..."

Start hitting the up-arrow key about once per second and a menu will appear.

Highlight memtest86 with the arrow keys. Hit Enter. Go to a movie. ;)

---

### Post by .:Justus:. on 2009-11-04
This happened to me when I was using the wrong wireless network card drivers.
Might want to check that out.

---

### Post by MiddleRiver on 2009-11-04
Thanks.  I think that might be it.  I just left my house for about 5 hours without Firefox open and it did not freeze.  I will try to find the correct windows driver for my wireless card.   Basically what I did was download NetGear WG111v2 and pointed the Windows Wireless Driver Utility to the .inf file in the Windows XP folder.  Let me know if you know if you have any tips on how to get the correct wireless driver.

---

### Post by MiddleRiver on 2009-11-04
I ran the memtest and no errors were identified.  I am going to go the wireless driver route for now.  I have seen this problem pop up for a few other users so hopefully I will find the solution soon.  My wife is almost ready for me to go back to Windows. I can hold her off a little while longer.

Thanks again.

---

### Post by asui4tong on 2009-11-06
This is definitely a bug on the OS not your driver. I have been running Ubuntu for 5 years and gone through all upgrades using the SAME hardware --- this is the first time this problem happens.

---

### Post by miki147 on 2009-11-07
> **asui4tong said:**
> This is definitely a bug on the OS not your driver. I have been running Ubuntu for 5 years and gone through all upgrades using the SAME hardware --- this is the first time this problem happens.

Have you ever tried so many remedies your head is just spinning?  I tried disabling wireless, compiz, pulse audio; adjusted grub.cnf, and many other things (on Dell 2400, 2mb celeron w/integrated graphics and audio) and it still randomly freezes in 9.10 final.  I also tried xubuntu, ubuntu and now kubuntu with distro apps only (no cross apps like gnome in kubuntu).  Now my head is spinning and I bable like a baby: "did I try that before, on which distro?

I'm going to say it is a OS problem running on a Dell 2400.  MWHAHAHAHA....

But seriously, does the Dell overheat like that HP laptop and nVidia thing, or is this just an OS that can't go to a subroutine when a problem is encountered instead of just stopping?

---

### Post by miki147 on 2009-11-08
> **miki147 said:**
> Have you ever tried so many remedies your head is just spinning?  I tried disabling wireless, compiz, pulse audio; adjusted grub.cnf, and many other things (on Dell 2400, 2mb celeron w/integrated graphics and audio) and it still randomly freezes in 9.10 final.  I also tried xubuntu, ubuntu and now kubuntu with distro apps only (no cross apps like gnome in kubuntu).  Now my head is spinning and I bable like a baby: "did I try that before, on which distro?

I'm going to say it is a OS problem running on a Dell 2400.  MWHAHAHAHA....

But seriously, does the Dell overheat like that HP laptop and nVidia thing, or is this just an OS that can't go to a subroutine when a problem is encountered instead of just stopping?


edit 8 Nov:  Sorry to wimp out like this but I totally removed my netgear wireless card.  It's been a day and on and off usage without that bit of hardware and the computer is working like a charm.  No freezes, quick responses and nice sound.  Sorry if you aren't using a wireless card, but that was my problem on this Dell 2400 w/integrated graphic and sound.#-o

---

### Post by MiddleRiver on 2009-11-23
My problem had to of been the wireless card.  I ran my Ethernet cable through the basement establishing a hardwired connection and bingo no more freezes.  I disabled the wireless and problem solved.  I have a feeling using a Dell Dimension 2400 with a NetGear wireless card is a no-go.

---

### Post by aarondcoleman on 2009-11-28
I'm having the same problem. Dell Dimension 2400 that worked 100% fine under 9.04. I've run MemTest and got no errors. It freezes 2 or 3 times per day, completely locks up and I have to hard-reset. I thought it might be a firefox thing but I've switched to using Chromium and it is still happening. 

I'm a pretty proficient computer person (computer science major and programmer), but pretty new to Linux so if there is a diagnostic or an error log file I can check please let me know and I'll post any updates here. The system has 512megs RAM, doesn't have anything fancy installed, just a basic system and did the automatic update from Jaunty to Karmic.

Thanks!

---

### Post by andycullison on 2009-12-13
I'm having the same issue. I've run several different installs of Ubuntu on my Dell XPS 1330 going back to 7.10, and this is the first time Ubuntu has ever seemed like a not-ready-for-prime-time OS.

-Firefox freezes
-Firefox closes randomly
-The laptop freezes randomly
-The laptop never wakes up from sleep/hibernate (it starts to, then freezes)

But what is weird is that I almost *never* had problems, again, going all the way back to 7.10

---

### Post by JPStevens on 2009-12-14
I have the same problem on my IBM R61 Thinkpad. I am not entirely sure but mine happens on my university campus when I attach the Ethernet cable and leave the wireless on. Whereas when I am at home and only have the wireless on I never see her freeze.

---

### Post by pierre_netsource on 2009-12-16
Same problem here, running a i5 Core 750 with 6Gb, and a Nvidea GTS250,  also thought it is Firefox, but using Komodo does the same , I am using the 64 bit distro, upgrading from 9.04 - hardly ever rebooted the machine...

---

### Post by Talon2 on 2009-12-16
> **aarondcoleman said:**
> I'm having the same problem. Dell Dimension 2400 that worked 100% fine under 9.04. I've run MemTest and got no errors. It freezes 2 or 3 times per day, completely locks up and I have to hard-reset. I thought it might be a firefox thing but I've switched to using Chromium and it is still happening. 



This problem sounds very familiar.  I have an older friend who has a Dell Dimension 2400.  He has been using Ubuntu for several years now.  Recently, after his hard drive needed to be replaced due to old age, I did a clean installation of 9.10 on the new drive.  The screen now freezes 2 or more times per day requiring a hard reboot.  I have turned off compiz and all energy management.  The system uses an Intel graphics chipset.  It passes all diagnostics.

This system was a rock for several years with Ubuntu but 9.10 has brought it to its knees.  If anyone has any idea what is going please let me know.

TIA

---

### Post by Shugotenshi on 2009-12-21
I'm having the same issue with 9.10.  Running an eMachine T1840, Celeron, 768MB, integrated Intel graphics.  GUI keeps locking up ever since I installed a fresh Karmic install.  Never had this problem with other versions, so I installed it again.  Same issue.  I found that it's almost guaranteed to surface anytime I use Pandora.  I can let it run for days other than that.

I find that when mine locks up, I can still ssh into my box, access shared folders, and use my media server from other boxes.  Not sure if this is a GDM thing or not.  Isn't it true that GDM can't be used as the display manager in 9.10, and that's why we can't use our old themes and such, and they're using something new?  Something like that.  It might be linked to this problem.  Someone please correct me where I'm wrong if need be.

---

### Post by bggfh on 2009-12-21
> **Giblet5 said:**
> I suspect hardware.

Run memtest86 from the grub menu.

You should be able to run memtest for four hours with zero errors. If so, your hardware isn't the problem, but I suspect your system will not be able to do that.
I'm having the same issue with 9.10. Running an eMachine T1840, Celeron, 768MB, integrated Intel graphics. GUI keeps locking up ever since I installed a fresh Karmic install. Never had this problem with other versions, so I installed it again. Same issue. I found that it's almost guaranteed to surface anytime I use Pandora. I can let it run for days other than that.

---

### Post by Shugotenshi on 2009-12-22
Been there, done that.  RAM's good.

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2009-12-26
> **aarondcoleman said:**
> I'm having the same problem. Dell Dimension 2400 that worked 100% fine under 9.04. I've run MemTest and got no errors. It freezes 2 or 3 times per day, completely locks up and I have to hard-reset. I thought it might be a firefox thing but I've switched to using Chromium and it is still happening.  
Thanks!
 
Same issue here!  Dimension 2400, 3.02Ghz HT Dual, 2Gb ram, Radeon 5250.  I'm triple booting and 9.04 has always been fine.  Thought I would try 9.10 side by side to test, not so good.  I am going to try the wireless angle the link is slow under 9.10 but normal under 9.04 and M$.
 
One note,  Karmic is running fine with some tweaks on Dell 1318, 1100, and 64 bit-HP HP a1267c 
 
shadetree

---

### Post by Lyleb on 2009-12-26
You will get as many different solutions to this problem as there are people to respond. None of them will work.

My conclusion is that this is a new feature in 9.10. Ubuntu thought that Microsoft had done so well with the Blue Screen of Death, that they wanted something similar, so they released 9.10.

The only solution I found that worked, was to re-format, and install 9.04. Everything works fine now.

---

### Post by Lyleb on 2009-12-26
By the way, I have no wireless card in this computer.

---

### Post by anselm on 2009-12-26
Same problem with my dell dimension 2400 also, reverted back to 8.04 no freeze ups at all.

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2009-12-26
> **Lyleb said:**
> You will get as many different solutions to this problem as there are people to respond. None of them will work.
 
My conclusion is that this is a new feature in 9.10. Ubuntu thought that Microsoft had done so well with the Blue Screen of Death, that they wanted something similar, so they released 9.10.
 
The only solution I found that worked, was to re-format, and install 9.04. Everything works fine now.
 
I just went backward on the 9.10 partition to 9.04 ext4, to compare to my other HDD 9.04 ext3 system.  both are running great with a notable speed improvement on the ext4 system install.
 
I'm guessing a kernel problem matching our MOBO on these 2400's. I have the same karmic disk installed on two other PC's with just a few personality tweaks and all is well.
 
OH..PS,  I tried the uninstalling WIFI suggestion, ran a Ethernet connection with no joy.
 
shadetree

---

### Post by thabusiness00 on 2009-12-26
yess i am having similar problems as well, just installed new 9.10 and everything is extremely slow.. minutes to open firefox, page loading is ok. when i go to application or preferences menu takes many secs to appear and stays there for a couple of minutes. windows and my mouse jump around.   open source gods please help:P

---

### Post by rockyjones on 2009-12-26
You may want to try upgrading to the 2.6.32 kernel.  I did this three days ago and it completely fixed my freeze problems.  I followed the directions on this site:

[http://www.ramoonus.nl/2009/12/03/linux-kernel-2-6-32-installation-guide-for-ubuntu-linux/](http://www.ramoonus.nl/2009/12/03/linux-kernel-2-6-32-installation-guide-for-ubuntu-linux/)

I've noticed no other problems with the new kernel.  Everything so far seems to work just fine.  My thinkpad t-60 had almost become unusable due to the frequent freezing before upgrading the kernel.

---

### Post by pompiuses on 2009-12-29
> **rockyjones said:**
> You may want to try upgrading to the 2.6.32 kernel.  I did this three days ago and it completely fixed my freeze problems.  I followed the directions on this site:

Unfortunately it did not fix the freeze problems on my computer :(

Is there an easy way to revert the upgrade back to 9.04, or do I have to do a full reinstall?

---

### Post by pompiuses on 2009-12-29
> **pompiuses said:**
> Unfortunately it did not fix the freeze problems on my computer :(

Is there an easy way to revert the upgrade back to 9.04, or do I have to do a full reinstall?

Looks like there's a cure afterall :). Disabling Compiz and installing the Xorg intel driver to 2.4 fixed it completely. So at least on my Dell Dimension 2400 the problem was graphics related.

Following this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8341830&postcount=15](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8341830&postcount=15)

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2009-12-29
> **pompiuses said:**
> Looks like there's a cure afterall :). Disabling Compiz and installing the Xorg intel driver to 2.4 fixed it completely. So at least on my Dell Dimension 2400 the problem was graphics related.
 
Following this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8341830&postcount=15](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8341830&postcount=15)
 
I'm not using the Intel on-board video on my 2400.  I have a Radeon 5250, but still have the same freeze issue.  It boots fast and the system screams but it always freezes.  
 
I think it is the Intel system driver.
 
shadetree

---

### Post by balexand on 2010-01-15
> **pompiuses said:**
> Looks like there's a cure afterall :). Disabling Compiz and installing the Xorg intel driver to 2.4 fixed it completely. So at least on my Dell Dimension 2400 the problem was graphics related.

Following this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8341830&postcount=15](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8341830&postcount=15)

This fixed the problem for me. Thanks!

Also, before I reverted the driver I was able to consistently reproduce the problem using the system test. Go to System->Administration->System Testing. When asked to "Select the suites to test", choose "Kernel modesetting tests". The first test, which briefly swiches from X to a text console, would freeze my system after a few tries. After reverting the video driver I was able to run this test repeatedly without problem.

FYI, usually when my system froze randomly, the mouse cursor would still move but everything else was unresponsive.

---

### Post by DarinB on 2010-01-15
yep gettin to look a lot like Microsoft products. 
The last real hassle free ubuntu os i had was feisty. 
Now i finally got my juanty running on a new box. and here come 9.10 full of problems and who knows if lucid will be any better...
my next move is sometime next summer to set up lucid get it right and quit the upgrading game until the following lts release.

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2010-01-15
Good to know your up and running!
 
My Dimension 2400 and Inspiron 1100 had this issue but the bug fix is working fine on both with karmic. [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/456902](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/456902)
 
Still interesting to know more about the intel driver affecting my 2400 test machine using AIT graphics and drivers?  I didn't pursue this on launchpad bug 456902 report so not to get off task.
 
shadetree

---

### Post by k64 on 2010-01-15
You could (as I did when experiencing various application crashes on my Acer Aspire One with Karmic) just upgrade to Lucid:

```
$ sudo update-manager -d
```

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2010-01-15
> **k64 said:**
> You could (as I did when experiencing various application crashes on my Acer Aspire One with Karmic) just upgrade to Lucid:

```
$ sudo update-manager -d
```

I had thought about installing lucid on another partition, but I couldn't let it beat me on those two old testing machines.

Besides it is getting kinda fun helping with the latent i845 driver tweaks to progress in lucid.

shadetree

---

### Post by raffytaffy on 2010-01-22
I am using 9.10_64bit and I am also getting daily lock-ups. My hardware is fine. This is rather frustrating :(

---

### Post by david2m3h on 2010-01-26
> **pompiuses said:**
> Looks like there's a cure afterall :). Disabling Compiz and installing the Xorg intel driver to 2.4 fixed it completely. So at least on my Dell Dimension 2400 the problem was graphics related.

Following this post:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8341830&postcount=15](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8341830&postcount=15)

This also fixed my old Dell Inspiron 1100 with integrated intel 82845G/GL graphics card. Just as a note, upon the first couple of reboots after switching to the 2.4 driver my dell gave me the old black screen. But on the third reboot everything worked, and no freezes for two days now.

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2010-01-26
> **david2m3h said:**
> This also fixed my old Dell Inspiron 1100 with integrated intel 82845G/GL graphics card. Just as a note, upon the first couple of reboots after switching to the 2.4 driver my dell gave me the old black screen. But on the third reboot everything worked, and no freezes for two days now.
 
How is your 3D working with this 2.4 driver.  The PPA on my previous bug post will soon be a downstream driver with hardware acceleration (special effects).  It will update 9.10 with normal ubuntu updates and standard in the lucid kernel. ;)

---

### Post by david2m3h on 2010-01-26
> **shadetree1 said:**
> How is your 3D working with this 2.4 driver.  The PPA on my previous bug post will soon be a downstream driver with hardware acceleration (special effects).  It will update 9.10 with normal ubuntu updates and standard in the lucid kernel. ;)

Just ran gnu chess in 3d for a few minutes. The animation is a little choppy but 3d is working.

---

### Post by shadetree1 on 2010-01-26
> **david2m3h said:**
> Just ran gnu chess in 3d for a few minutes. The animation is a little choppy but 3d is working.
 
Brian had posted "One reason I just realized for why graphics-testing is slower is that by reverting libdrm but not mesa, I broke opengl acceleration."
 
So when this is compiled, upstream will update our kernels.
 
Until then use Brian's PPA to help with  testing.  [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/456902](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/456902) i845G driver.

---

### Post by Objekt on 2010-02-11
> **raffytaffy said:**
> I am using 9.10_64bit and I am also getting daily lock-ups. My hardware is fine. This is rather frustrating :(

You aren't alone.  I've seen the 32-bit flavor of Ubuntu 9.10 hang for no apparent reason, also.  On very old hardware, which ran Windows XP all the time without lockups.  It's one of those especially maddening problems, because it doesn't happen to everyone.

For example, I've been running 9.10 64-bit on my desktop for a few months, with not one freeze yet.

Because of the unpredictability of this problem, I opted for Ubuntu 8.04.3 LTS when I built a system for someone last month.  He's the same person for whom 9.10 was freezing on his very old hardware (Dell Dimension 8400).  He hasn't complained about any lockups on the new system, so I think an LTS distro is a good move if you're not in the mood to tinker or multi-boot.

---

### Post by rockyjones on 2010-02-14
Well, I may have a clue at least to the freezing on my machine.  I had been using the 2.6.32 kernel with no problems for a while now but recently switched back to the 2.6.31.19 when it came out and it was working for a few days with no lockups.  Unfortunately today, the machine started freezing again.  This seemed strange as it had been working fine so I started thinking about what change I had made in the last day or so.  The only thing I had done was to switch back to using WPA2 with AES encryption rather than running the 5Gig wireless side of the wndr3700 that I have set to "open" but limit access by MAC address.  I did this because I started having a problem with "iwlagn firmware errors" and found that it appeared to be connected to the wpa-supplicant that runs when connected to WPA encrypted connections.  Connecting to an open network solved this problem and so I thought I would try going back to that and see if the freezing may be related too.  So far NO Freezes!  I'm beginning to think that my freezes, at least, are directly related to a problem with wpa_supplicant.  If anyone else is having this problem you might want to try changing to an open (or even WEP perhaps) connection and see if this fixes the freeze problem for you too.

Joe

---

