---
title: "17.10 Upgrade and Chromium Issues"
date: 2017-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RevDavid on 2017-10-31
Just upgraded to 17.10 today and ran into a couple issues. One, When trying to install Chromium browser from the software center it just hangs or gives an error. I end up having to reboot my system to get it to stop and then have t install chromium by terminal...which is no biggie. The bigger issue is when i use chromium and sign in with my google acct, I go to my google drive to download backups that I had but it doesn't work. The files will show downloading and completed, but they show no where on my system. I can do the same thing with FireFox and works fine.

Anyone run into this? Any help would be appreciated :)

---

### Post by stephen-d-allen on 2017-11-01
Try again and check your logs right afterwards for a relevant message(s) and post here. 
Also, I assume in the Chromium download dialogue, you opened the 'containing folder' in case it's somewhere else other than your 'Downloads' directory?

---

### Post by RevDavid on 2017-11-04
> **stephen-d-allen said:**
> Try again and check your logs right afterwards for a relevant message(s) and post here. 
Also, I assume in the Chromium download dialogue, you opened the 'containing folder' in case it's somewhere else other than your 'Downloads' directory?

Trying not to sound like a noob lol, but where will I find the logs? Been using Linux for a long time but never looked for logs when something like this happens. Yes, tried opening containing folder from Chromium itself and then checked my Downloads folder where all my downloads go....still nothing there.

---

### Post by RevDavid on 2017-11-08
Nevermind, I uninstalled Chromium and installed "Chrome" and all is working fine. Must be a bug in Chromium causing the issue.

---

