---
title: "Grub mixes up menu entries in 10.4"
date: 2010-06-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bkline on 2010-06-19
I've got a laptop on which I usually run Ubuntu, but I occasionally have to boot back into the Windows OS which came with the machine when I bought it.  Up until the current version of Ubuntu, grub did this just fine.  But with 10.4 grub all of a sudden got the menu items for the Windows OS and for the Windows recovery loader mixed up.  I use Windows seldom enough that when I do I've forgotten about the problem, and I end up in the Windows recovery screen.  In the past I would have just edited /boot/grub/menu.lst, but that file doesn't exist any more.  Instead there's a grub.cfg, which says in big fat letters DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE.  It appears that the cfg file is generated automatically using information created by an "os prober" which must not be able to figure out what's what as well as its predecessor did.  I suppose I could edit the prober created, but I'm afraid that fix would be clobbered (or worse) by some updates.  Why has grub been made less functional, and what's the best way to undo the damage?

---

### Post by davidmohammed on 2010-06-19
edit the file /etc/default/grub and change the default value to boot to ubuntu rather that the default windows.

run

sudo update-grub after wards to regenerate your grub menu

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-19
bkline,

I think what you want to do is either *hide* or perhaps *rename* the Windows recovery partition. If so, this is a common request. I wrote a post about Grub 2 Title Tweaks that deals with these issues. Check out sections 3 & 4.

You have to tweak the /etc/grub.d/30_os-prober file. It may seem a bit complicated but if you follow the instructions it isn't hard. If you have questions you can ask them in that thread or in here.

[Grub 2 (Title) Tweaks]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1287602")

It's true that any *major* changes to the Grub2 files would necessitate redoing the edit, but as 10.04 is an LTS I don't expect we will see too many changes. Note that "update-grub" doesn't count as a change...

Added: And for simplicity and removing the worry of updates trashing your changes, you can always make a custom menu in /etc/grub.d/  and name it 06_custom so it appears at the top of the menu.

---

### Post by bkline on 2010-06-19
> **davidmohammed said:**
> edit the file /etc/default/grub and change the default value to boot to ubuntu rather that the default windows.

run

sudo update-grub after wards to regenerate your grub menu

Thanks for replying.  It's not the default that's messed up (that's set to the latest Ubuntu kernel as it should be).  What's mixed up are the labels for the menu options to boot into Windows; the option for booting into the OS is labeled as if it were the recovery loader, and the recovery option has the label for booting into the OS.

---

### Post by bkline on 2010-06-19
> **drs305 said:**
> I wrote a post about Grub 2 Title Tweaks that deals with these issues. Check out sections 3 & 4.

Thanks.  I read through your guide, which appears to be a very thorough and useful document.  As I dig deeper into this problem, and how the new "improved" grub works, I see that everything (including the tips you give for modifying the menus) assumes that the os-prober program works correctly, but as far as I can tell, that not happening.  Here's the output of os-prober on this laptop:

```
/dev/sda1:Windows Recovery Environment (loader):Windows:chain
/dev/sda2:Windows Vista (loader):Windows1:chain
```
I can't imagine how it came up with these values.  It's not from the labels on the partitions.  The sda1 partition has no label at all, and the label on the sda2 partition is HP_RECOVERY.  As I implied in the original post, the earlier versions of grub figured out that sda1 has the OS on it, and sda2 has the recovery files.  I suppose it would be possible to hack the script to look for and fix the hard-wired strings os-prober is coming up with, but that's a pretty fragile solution.  If I can't do better than that, I might as well just tape a sticky note to the laptop reminding me that the labels are backward.  What I really need is for someone to explain why os-prober is broken, and how to get a fixed version of the program.

---

### Post by bkline on 2010-06-19
> **drs305 said:**
> ..., you can always make a custom menu in /etc/grub.d/  and name it 06_custom so it appears at the top of the menu.

I think I'll go with this solution, even though it leaves me with two sets of entries for the Windows partitions, one correct and one backwards.  I can put in a reminder string that the later menu entries are bogus.  Thanks for the tip.

I'm still interested in anyone who has a real fix for the underlying os-prober bug.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-19
I've not used Vista and can't offer much help as to why Grub2 does what it does. I do know that your's is not a unique situation - others have reported the same thing. 

If you are really interested, you could try talking to the devs directly on IRC. They hang out on Freenode at #grub. They use the channel primarily to discuss Grub2 programming issues between themselves, but sometimes they will be in a talkative mood and may be willing to chat with you.

Please post if you come up with more than the *bandaid* solution.

---

### Post by bkline on 2010-06-19
> **drs305 said:**
> If you are really interested, you could try talking to the devs directly on IRC.

Thanks, excellent suggestion!  I'll post anything useful I find out from talking with them.

Bob

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-06-19
I revert to the old grub way by copying the entries into 40_custom.

Total Custom menu:
[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Custom_Menu](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Custom_Menu)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1483827](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1483827)
OR Partial Custom:
I used drs305's command to limit ubuntu entries to two, turned off os_prober so it does not look for other systems and totally customized my 40_custom.
includes line to limit display to two
Grub 2 Title Tweaks Thread -drs305
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8082954&postcount=1](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=8082954&postcount=1)
In /etc/default/grub I added this:
GRUB_DISABLE_OS_PROBER=true

Copy the windows entries from this:
gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg
Copy them to and edit :
gksudo gedit /etc/grub.d/40_custom

---

### Post by bkline on 2010-06-19
> **oldfred said:**
> I revert to the old grub way by copying the entries into 40_custom [... and ...] turned off os_prober so it does not look for other systems and totally customized my 40_custom.

Hmm, sounds promising.  I'll give it a try, thanks!

---

### Post by bkline on 2010-06-20
There's a known bug in os_prober ([https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/os-prober/+bug/476625]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/os-prober/+bug/476625")); doesn't look as if they're going fix it until the next release of Ubuntu.  Can't imagine why they thought it was a good idea to break it in the first place, in light of the fact that grub was figuring out what was where perfectly accurately before 10.4.

---

### Post by bkline on 2010-06-20
Thanks to oldfred and drs305 for their excellent assistance and advice.  I adopted the route of suppressing the bogus os_prober and substituting my own custom entries for the Windows partitions.  I'll mark the thread SOLVED (even though the real solution happens when the fix to the os_prober bug is deployed).

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-06-20
I don't care much for the message (no immediate fix) but thanks for conveying what you learned to the rest of us.

---

