---
title: "13.10 Auto-Hide Sidebar Problem."
date: 2013-10-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2013-10-23
So I updated to 13.10 a couple days back, and I didn't really have any problems, apart from the known time-disappearing-from-the-top-bar bug. I fixed that, but managed to mess up my unity interface at the same time(which I already fixed in the mean time too). 

The only problem I have now, is that the option to auto-hide the sidebar doesn't work. When I turn it ON, it just stays out, and doesn't do anything. 

Any help would be much appreciated. 

Thanks in advance,
Daniel

---

### Post by mc4man on 2013-10-23
> **danielbauwens said:**
> So I updated to 13.10 a couple days back, and I didn't really have any problems, apart from the known time-disappearing-from-the-top-bar bug. I fixed that, but managed to mess up my unity interface at the same time(which I already fixed in the mean time too). 

The only problem I have now, is that the option to auto-hide the sidebar doesn't work. When I turn it ON, it just stays out, and doesn't do anything. 

Any help would be much appreciated. 

Thanks in advance,
Daniel
Well if you 'fixed' A but broke B in doing so,  then 'fixed' B & now C is broken I'd look at what you did to fix A & B

---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2013-10-24
The ways that I "fixed" them, are all solutions to problems that other people had (time disappearing and unity interface gone). I used their solutions, and fixed it. This sidebar somehow got messed up in the process of everything else.

---

### Post by danielbauwens on 2013-10-25
Alright, I solved the problem.

If you go to your **CompizConfig Settings Manager **(**ccsm **to open in a terminal)[B]> Ubuntu Unity Plugin > Launcher. 

[/B]There under "Hide Launcher" you have to select **Auto-Hide **instead of[B] Never.

 [/B]

---

### Post by vanadium on 2013-10-25
The setting is available in "System settings", "Appearance", "Behaviour" tab.

---

### Post by Johan De Cauwer on 2013-10-25
> **vanadium said:**
> The setting is available in "System settings", "Appearance", "Behaviour" tab.

He did say: 'The only problem I have now, is that the option to auto-hide the sidebar doesn't work. When I turn it ON, it just stays out, and doesn't do anything.'

Hearing of all the problems or bugs that accompany 13.10 I'd think people ought to think twice before upgrading to quickly. The strange part is that I tested it in dual-boot and apart of the slowness in dash/lens I encountered no problems. I used the system settings solution for the sidebar and it works just fine. The conclusion for me is that these problems all very hardware dependent...

---

### Post by vanadium on 2013-10-25
People does not understand each other correctly 80% of the time. My apologies. Yes, this definitively does not work correctly. Try changing the settings in ccsm (Compiz Config setting Manager) as per the screenshot here ([http://askubuntu.com/questions/37083/how-can-i-change-the-unity-launcher-delay):](http://askubuntu.com/questions/37083/how-can-i-change-the-unity-launcher-delay):) here it seems to work well, and the bug then is no more than wrong default settings.
As a matter of fact, I am not sure whether that setting will stay between sessions, because when I load ccsm again, the entered values are gone again.

---

