---
title: "Screen resolution resets on every restart !!"
date: 2008-06-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 1Man on 2008-06-03
[B][COLOR="Blue"]Hey guys,
I'm just a very new Linux user, and I'm using Hardy.
I have everything fine. but i having any resolution more than 800*600 in the screen resolution. 
I have installed [COLOR="Black"]"nVidia x server settings"[/COLOR] and i had a great list of resolutions there and i use 1152*864, I have Geforce 5200 graphic card. I have [COLOR="Black"]"nvidia-glx-new[/COLOR]" installed for graphic card identification , the problem is when i restart my PC the resolution turns back to 800*600.

I hope if any higher user help me how to keep my screen resolution.

Finally this is my xorg.conf content[/COLOR][/B]


> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us,ara"
	Option		"XkbVariant"	",qwerty_digits"
	Option		"XkbOptions"	"grp:alt_shift_toggle,grp_led:scroll"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Option		"NoLogo"	"True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
EndSection


**[COLOR="Blue"]Cheers[/COLOR]**

---

### Post by didac on 2008-06-04
Try

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg
```

in a terminal

---

### Post by atomkarinca on 2008-06-04
Open up a terminal (Applications > Accessories > Terminal) and type:

```
gksudo nvidia-settings
```

choose your correct resolution and hit "Save to X Configuration File". That should do it.

---

### Post by Spartachris on 2009-02-11
Ok, so I did everything, and all the other users have the correct resolution 1152x864, but when I logged in after a restart, it reverted back to 1024x768. I'm the only user that this happens to. 

I'm a complete and total noob....

Thanks for your help!

---

### Post by mikehattingh on 2009-03-21
I had this same problem I think. My TV tells me the resolution of the signal it's getting, and in my case the signal was correct after restart, but the desktop area was resetting to some low value. Anyway it turns out there is some kind of conflict between _nvidia-settings_ and the _Screen resolution_ utility that belongs to Ubuntu.

When I set the resolution in System > Preferences > Screen resolution **and** in System > Administration > Nvidia X server settings the resolution held. Hope this helps.

---

### Post by Spartachris on 2009-03-21
Fixed! Frustratingly simple, too. Thanks so much!

---

