---
title: "New 11.10 - launcher and top panel crashed - how to restore??"
date: 2011-10-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by wildwildebeest on 2011-10-20
Dear all,


I have just upgraded from 11.04 to 11.10. Everything worked fine at first, but at one point when I was editing some CompizConfig settings (just something basic like 'number of desktops'), CompizConfig crashed.
Then the whole launcher disappeared, along with most of the buttons in the top panel. The shutdown button, calendar, etc. all went, leaving just the tabs from File to Help.


Also, windows now have the title and File, Edit..(etc) tabs on 2 separate lines, instead of the new format where hovering over the bar switches which one is visible.

I have since been using Ctrl+Alt+T to open a terminal and open applications, shut down, etc, from there.

I have typed in the command:
unity --reset
which has some effect, but the terminal never reaches the end of the task.
I've also done apt-get update, which completed fine.

Can anyone help me restore the launcher and panel functions?? I am getting most frustrated by the fact that once I have opened Firefox, I can't enter any other commands!

Many thanks!

---

### Post by zurga on 2011-10-21
I had similar problem, and used Copper Bezel's technique to reset my desktop. See: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11371936#post11371936](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11371936#post11371936). It does not fix CompizConfig, for which I have no solution.

---

### Post by techvish81 on 2011-10-21
reboot using sudo reboot in terminal and select unity2d and login, install compizconfig settings manager, click on the checkbox beside unity plugin, (uncheck and recheck if it is checked) it will display a dialog for resolving conflicts, select the middle option in all the conflicts. 
it will solve the problems,
if still the problem remains then u will have to do a fresh install of 11.10. and then do this .

---

### Post by wildwildebeest on 2011-10-22
Thanks, I followed Copper Bezel's technique, and my launcher and icons are back!

Although, as you said, CompizConfig still doesn't work: I tried unchecking and rechecking the unity plugin box and it all seized up again.

Anyway, main problem solved. Now just to wait for a proper fix for CompizConfig.

Cheers!!
:)

---

