---
title: "11.10"
date: 2011-10-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mbrady76 on 2011-10-18
I was encouraged when I logged into my Ubuntu Linux machine yesterday to upgrade to 11.10.

So far, my Dvorak keyboard settings don't work unless I go into preferences and fiddle around and then somehow it starts to work.

The movie player to play ogg vorbis format doesn't seem to work, either.

Where can I go to get some help with these issues?  OR  Should I simply downgrade back to 11.04?

Thanks,
Mike

---

### Post by kc1di on 2011-10-18
> **mbrady76 said:**
> I was encouraged when I logged into my Ubuntu Linux machine yesterday to upgrade to 11.10.

So far, my Dvorak keyboard settings don't work unless I go into preferences and fiddle around and then somehow it starts to work.

The movie player to play ogg vorbis format doesn't seem to work, either.

Where can I go to get some help with these issues?  OR  Should I simply downgrade back to 11.04?

Thanks,
Mike

did you install ubuntu-restricted-extras yet?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-18
Ogg-vorbis should play with no problem without installing any restricted format codecs etc etc, so I suspect something went wrong with the upgrade.

I do not run 11.10 as I don't like unity, so still have 10.04, but I am aware that there have been many upgrade problems this time;  more than normal I think, probably due to the huge change from gtk/gnome2 to gtk/gnome3.  Other than a clean install of 11.10 or 11.04, I can't give you more advice;  there is no way to downgrade to 11.04 except by reinstalling, I'm afraid.

---

