---
title: "Command not found - nvidia-xconfig"
date: 2010-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by LeeM on 2010-05-13
I've been trying to set up the resolution on my monitor. When I open System/Administration/NVIDIA X Server Setting, I get a window that says 
"You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X Driver. PLease edit your X Configuration file (just run nvidia-xconfig as root) and restart the X server."
But when I run "sudo nvidia-xconfig" in a terminal, I get
"sudo: nvidia-xconfig: command not found"
Any idea what I'm missing?
I'm running 9.10

Here is the content of /etc/X11/xorg.conf:
# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Driver          "wacom"
        Identifier      "pad"
        Option          "Device"        "/dev/input/wacom"
        Option          "Type"          "pad"
        Option          "USB"           "on"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE]"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:0:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"L70S"
	Option		"DPMS"
	HorizSync	30-70
	VertRefresh	50-160
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"nVidia Corporation C51 [GeForce 6150 LE]"
	Monitor		"L70S"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1600x900" "1440x900" "1024x768" "800x600" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"
	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
        InputDevice     "pad"
EndSection

---

### Post by dudesurge on 2010-12-11
this topic is still open, i am using
Ubuntu 10.10
nVidia built-in to my laptop
when i run "nvidia-settings" i get "You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver.  Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server."
when i try to run "nvidia-xconfig" i get 
"dudly@dudly5810T:~$ sudo nvidia-xconfig
sudo: nvidia-xconfig: command not found"
when i try to install it i get
"dudly@dudly5810T:~$ sudo apt-get install nvidia-xconfig
E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?"
has this program's name changed? is there a different command or program?
any help AT ALL would be greatly appreciated

---

### Post by Krytarik on 2010-12-12
Check in "System -> Administration -> Hardware Drivers" if the Nvidia-driver is installed.
The tool "nvidia-xconfig" is included in the respective driver-package.
I wouldn't try to install the driver via apt, because there are number a different versions, depends on the video card. Hopefully the "Hardware Drivers"-way works.

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-12
+1 for using System > Administration > Additional Dirvers/Hardware Drivers.

Are you sure you've got an Nvidia card?

```
lspci | grep VGA
```

And these errors,

> E: Could not get lock /var/lib/dpkg/lock - open (11: Resource temporarily unavailable)
E: Unable to lock the administration directory (/var/lib/dpkg/), is another process using it?"

They suggest that some other package manager like Software Center, Synaptic, Update Manager, aptitude or another instance of apt-get is running and you can't use them simultaneously.

And once more, you don't need to install it via apt-get. Use the Drivers Gui instead.

---

### Post by colobix on 2010-12-21
I have the exact same errors after I upgraded to 10.10 today.
It seams like every time I upgrade to a new ubuntu I get xconf errors but this one is the worse so far. In my opinion this is a bug, and a huge one.
So please fix this, Ubuntu. I don't wanna deal with all this advanced bs

lspci | grep VGA says:
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation ION VGA (rev b1)

---

### Post by sikander3786 on 2010-12-21
> **colobix said:**
> I have the exact same errors after I upgraded to 10.10 today.
It seams like every time I upgrade to a new ubuntu I get xconf errors but this one is the worse so far. In my opinion this is a bug, and a huge one.
So please fix this, Ubuntu. I don't wanna deal with all this advanced bs

lspci | grep VGA says:
03:00.0 VGA compatible controller: nVidia Corporation ION VGA (rev b1)
Please post the output of this one as well.

```
glxinfo | grep vendor
```

---

