---
title: "...can't boot into desktop."
date: 2006-10-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nineteeneightyone on 2006-10-27
I'm a newbie, so please bear with my and my poor explanation.

Have 6.06 working fine on an old Compaq P3 (couldn't tell you the speed) and I believe a Matrox Millenuim graphics card.

I've tried updating from Synaptic Package Manager to 6.10, I've tried the live CD of 6.10 and as yet, there isn't a safe way to install the 'alternative' I can't test that version of 6.10 (Have also tried the 'safe graphics' mode on the desktop Live CD) - and am still getting the same error as outlined below:

>>Boots from CD
>>Select "Start or Install" Ubuntu
>> Get a blank screen (tried the F4 option and switched to a safe res 1024x768 32) Got black screen, Ubutnu Logo, Ubuntu words and an orange loading bar
>> Back to blank screen, a cursor appears top left for a while, then dissapears.
>> Blank screen, here (from what I believe) loading music (tribal drums, bing, bang, bong).
>> Nothing, Nada, Zip - can't do anything.

Amy help would be gratefully recieved.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-10-27
I don't know if it works in the login screen, but Ctrl-Alt with + or - on the numeric keypad will scroll through the available resolutions. This may help you get a display.

Otherwise, if Ctrl-Alt-F2 gets you to a virtual console, you can look to reconfigure your X server, in case that helps.

Good luck.

---

### Post by nineteeneightyone on 2006-10-27
Well the Alt+Ctrl +/- didn't seem to work. Haven't tried the other keyboard shortcut as I wouldn't know how to start "reconfiguring my X server?"

Thanks for your help though, worth a shot.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2006-10-27
> **nineteeneightyone said:**
> Haven't tried the other keyboard shortcut as I wouldn't know how to start "reconfiguring my X server?"

You'd start with a search ;) There's **lots** of posts.

The next step assumes you can get to a virual console:

```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg
``` Type in the password you'd normally use to log in with if you're trying from the Ubuntu install. I don't think the live cd asks for a password for [sudo]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RootSudo") operations.

This should open up a configuration tool that will let you specify the resolutions you'd like, and the refresh rates. It may well be these settings that are inacurate, and causing you the black screen - it could be something else of course, I've never experienced the problem you're having.

Then **Ctrl-Alt-F7** to get back to your graphical login, and **Ctrl-Alt-Backspace** to restart your X server.

Good luck.

---

### Post by dbott67 on 2006-10-27
While you're in the terminal, if you want to see information about your CPU, type: **cat /proc/cpuinfo**
```
dbott@thedrake:~$ cat /proc/cpuinfo
processor       : 0
vendor_id       : GenuineIntel
cpu family      : 15
model           : 2
model name      : Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 CPU 1.80GHz
stepping        : 4
cpu MHz         : 1816.460
cache size      : 512 KB
fdiv_bug        : no
hlt_bug         : no
f00f_bug        : no
coma_bug        : no
fpu             : yes
fpu_exception   : yes
cpuid level     : 2
wp              : yes
flags           : fpu vme de pse tsc msr pae mce cx8 apic sep mtrr pge mca cmov pat pse36 clflush dts acpi mmx fxsr sse sse2 ss ht tm
bogomips        : 3636.53
```

-Dave

---

