---
title: "14.04 does not boot with asus sata drive plugged in"
date: 2014-06-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mikeprosceo-frontiernet on 2014-06-24
I have a good 14.04 install but when I shut down and plug my asus sata dvd drive in, so I can play dvd's, 14.04 boots to initramfs screen.  It also seems to stick for a while at the detecting hard drive screen before it goes to the initramfs screen.  If I unplug the sata dvd drive and re boot, it boots up fine, although a little slow.  Anyone have any ideas?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-06-24
Hello mikeprosceo and welcome to Ubuntu and the forums.

It sounds like you might have a missing or corrupted driver for your ASUS SATA DVD drive. The system appears to be trying to load a driver, finding it missing or unloadable, and can't get beyond *initramfs*.

1. How did you install Ubuntu? If you did so through this same DVD drive, then Ubuntu obviously can see it and has proper drivers for it.

2. Can you run a LiveDVD session of Ubuntu using this DVD drive? If you have never tried, do so now.

3. Try plugging the DVD drive into your system only *after* the system loads. Open up the *Disks* app using the Dash. Does this app see the DVD drive? **CAUTION** Be careful using the *Disks* app. It is very powerful and is capable of repartioning/reformatting drives. It's fine for looking at things, but don't change anything unless you are absolutely sure of what you are doing.

4. With the DVD drive plugged in (after you have booted up with it unplugged, if necessary), open a terminal and post results of:```
sudo lshw -C storage
``````
sudo blkid
``````
sudo parted -l
``````
sudo fdisk -l
``````
df
```The output may be lengthy and it's best to highlight the output and copy/paste them into the thread box. Please enclose your output in {CODE}output{/CODE} tags &#8213; where the "{" braces are replaced with square "[" braces &#8213; for easier reading (as I have done above).

---

### Post by mikeprosceo-frontiernet on 2014-06-25
CODE:
[sudo lshw -C storage]
 *-ide:0                 
       description: IDE interface
       product: MCP61 IDE
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 6
       bus info: pci@0000:00:06.0
       version: a2
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: ide pm bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=pata_amd latency=0 maxlatency=1 mingnt=3
       resources: irq:0 ioport:1f0(size=8) ioport:3f6 ioport:170(size=8) ioport:376 ioport:ffa0(size=16)
  *-ide:1
       description: IDE interface
       product: MCP61 SATA Controller
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 8
       bus info: pci@0000:00:08.0
       version: a2
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: ide pm msi ht bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=sata_nv latency=0 maxlatency=1 mingnt=3
       resources: irq:20 ioport:e000(size=8) ioport:dc00(size=4) ioport:d880(size=8) ioport:d800(size=4) ioport:d480(size=16) memory:dfefc000-dfefcfff
  *-ide:2
       description: IDE interface
       product: MCP61 SATA Controller
       vendor: NVIDIA Corporation
       physical id: 8.1
       bus info: pci@0000:00:08.1
       version: a2
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 66MHz
       capabilities: ide pm msi ht bus_master cap_list
       configuration: driver=sata_nv latency=0 maxlatency=1 mingnt=3
       resources: irq:23 ioport:d400(size=8) ioport:d080(size=4) ioport:d000(size=8) ioport:cc00(size=4) ioport:c880(size=16) memory:dfef7000-dfef7fff
  *-scsi
       physical id: a
       logical name: scsi0
       capabilities: emulated

CODE:
[sudo blkid]
/dev/sda1: UUID="01308a22-64f3-4f05-b199-ed3e76e4a9e8" TYPE="ext4" 
/dev/sda5: UUID="88b09c07-d1ec-4ca4-a38f-464df4575e03" TYPE="swap"

CODE:
[sudo parted -l]
Model: ATA Maxtor 4R120L0 (scsi)
Disk /dev/sda: 123GB
Sector size (logical/physical): 512B/512B
Partition Table: msdos

Number  Start   End    Size    Type      File system     Flags
 1      1049kB  114GB  114GB   primary   ext4            boot
 2      114GB   123GB  8553MB  extended
 5      114GB   123GB  8553MB  logical   linux-swap(v1)


CODE:
[sudo fdisk -l]
Disk /dev/sda: 122.9 GB, 122942324736 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 14946 cylinders, total 240121728 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x000ef74b

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *        2048   223412223   111705088   83  Linux
/dev/sda2       223414270   240119807     8352769    5  Extended
/dev/sda5       223414272   240119807     8352768   82  Linux swap / Solaris

CODE:
[df]
Filesystem     1K-blocks    Used Available Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1      109819768 8278892  95939240   8% /
none                   4       0         4   0% /sys/fs/cgroup
udev             4028292      12   4028280   1% /dev
tmpfs             814408    1216    813192   1% /run
none                5120       0      5120   0% /run/lock
none             4072020    5408   4066612   1% /run/shm
none              102400      56    102344   1% /run/user

I plugged the DVD drive in after system loaded and checked the Disks app.  It did NOT see the DVD drive.

I installed 14.04 with a thumb drive.  I had tried to use the DVD drive but kept having problems.  It installed with the thumb drive but the OS was unstable. I had been using the DVD drive to copy CD's to an external hard drive.  It  got stuck on a track and the computer froze.  I rebooted but it wouldn't load the OS.  I eventually unplugged the DVD drive and restarted the computer and the OS was fine.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-06-25
As feared, the command line queries tell us nothing. The ASUS drive is simply not recognized and the query info is typical of a system that has only a single HDD attached.

Please give exact model number of ASUS drive.

Have you Googled this drive with the exact model number + "Linux" and/or "Ubuntu 14.04"? You would be looking for similar complaints from people with the same model of drive. Sometimes, they have already found a solution.

What type of drive is it? USB? If so, have you tried plugging it into a different USB port? Make sure that a class 2 drive is plugged into a class 2 port, class 3 to class 3, etc.

When you created your install thumb drive, how did you download the image? Did you torrent it (the best way)? Did you perform an md5 hash check of the downloaded ISO? In your case, this would be to forestall a bad image that might have corrupted drivers. Instructions are [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto#Verifying_the_ISO_integrity").

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-26
Boot to a regular desktop, plug the drive in, run:

sudo lsusb

... and see if it shows up there.

---

### Post by mikeprosceo-frontiernet on 2014-06-26
Please give exact model number of ASUS drive.
          [[ASUS DRW-24B1ST/***BLACK***/B/AS ]("https://www.google.com/search?client=ubuntu&hs=g7N&channel=fs&q=ASUS+DRW-24B1ST/BLACK/B/AS+drivers+ubuntu+14.04&sa=X&ei=zd2sU6bxBtKVyAT0hIDYCw&ved=0CBwQ7xYoAA")]

Have you Googled this drive with the exact model number + "Linux" and/or  "Ubuntu 14.04"? You would be looking for similar complaints from people  with the same model of drive. Sometimes, they have already found a  solution.

[No but I will as soon as I can[.

What type of drive is it? USB? If so, have you tried plugging it into a  different USB port? Make sure that a class 2 drive is plugged into a  class 2 port, class 3 to class 3, etc.
 
[It is a  SATA DVD drive]

When you created your install thumb drive, how did you download the  image? Did you torrent it (the best way)? Did you perform an md5 hash  check of the downloaded ISO? In your case, this would be to forestall a  bad image that might have corrupted drivers. Instructions are [here]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BurningIsoHowto#Verifying_the_ISO_integrity"). 

[I used Unetbootin and did check for errors before I installed]

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-27
Sorry if you've stated this already, but are you using a laptop or desktop and is this an internal SATA DVD or external and you are using an eSATA plug to connect it to the machine?

If external, there is a known issue with eSATA which can require some hoop-jumping to resolve ...

---

### Post by mikeprosceo-frontiernet on 2014-06-27
Sorry if you've stated this already, but are you using a laptop or  desktop and is this an internal SATA DVD or external and you are using  an eSATA plug to connect it to the machine?

[This is a desktop with an internal drive using a SATA cable to connect Drive to Motherboard]

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-27
Directly into the motherboard (SATA cable) or into the chassis of the machine (eSATA cable) then into the motherboard via a SATA cable inside the box?

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-06-27
You can also try changing the order of your SATA connection. HDD should always be on SATA0, or the lowest port number commensurate with SATA speed of drive. Then try DVD on different SATA ports. Make sure it is plugged into a SATA 6GB port if SATA 6GB, SATA 3GB if SATA 3GB, and so forth.

---

### Post by mikeprosceo-frontiernet on 2014-06-27
[QUOTE=Duckhook]You can also try changing the order of your SATA connection. HDD should  always be on SATA0, or the lowest port number commensurate with SATA  speed of drive. Then try DVD on different SATA ports. Make sure it is  plugged into a SATA 6GB port if SATA 6GB, SATA 3GB if SATA 3GB, and so  forth. [/QUOTE]				

[Are the SATA ports not in Parallel?  If not how do I tell one SATA port from the other.  The hard Drive is IDE and not plugged into SATA port and is first in Boot order]

[This is a desktop computer with the DVD plugged directly with a SATA cable from the DVD drive to a SATA port on Motherboard]

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2014-06-28
Please use [quote] tags. I have edited your last post and you can see how they are used/syntax. Less confusing. ;)

The SATA ports are numbered on the board. Look carefully.

---

### Post by DuckHook on 2014-06-28
> **mikeprosceo-frontiernet said:**
> ...The hard Drive is IDE and not plugged into SATA port...OK. Now things are a little clearer. You have a mixture of IDE and SATA. There have been reports that on some MOBOs, IDE and SATA do not mix happily. See [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1893605") thread. The MOBO BIOS gets confused about where to find certain stuff, and this could lead to the issues that you were experiencing. Since SATA is the newer technology, Ubuntu *could* be defaulting to the expectation that all drives conform to the drive that it is booting from. **CAVEAT** Foregoing is pure conjecture, as are most such observations. Treat with all due caution.

Given the price of HDDs these days, I would suggest that you buy a cheap and cheerful SATA HDD, plug it into your lowest numbered SATA port and use it as your boot drive. I suspect that your SATA DVD problem will disappear at that point (but of course, neither can I guarantee that this will solve the problem). You can use your IDE drive for backups only, or disconnect it altogether. Given how much faster SATA is to IDE, the change will have the added benefit of noticeably improving your computer response.

---

### Post by mikeprosceo-frontiernet on 2014-06-30
[HR][/HR][QUOTE]OK. Now things are a little clearer. You have a mixture of IDE and SATA.  There have been reports that on some MOBOs, IDE and SATA do not mix  happily. See [this]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1893605")  thread. The MOBO BIOS gets confused about where to find certain stuff,  and this could lead to the issues that you were experiencing. Since SATA  is the newer technology, Ubuntu *could* be defaulting to the  expectation that all drives conform to the drive that it is booting  from. **CAVEAT** Foregoing is pure conjecture, as are most such  observations. Treat with all due caution.

[HR][/HR]
Ok, I just tried replugging the DVD into SATA 3 (I was only replugging between 1 & 2) and it seems to work.   I will keep playing with it, rebooting every once and a while to see if it is constant.  - Thank you for all your help


[HR][/HR][QUOTE]Given the price of HDDs these days, I would suggest that you buy a cheap  and cheerful SATA HDD, plug it into your lowest numbered SATA port and  use it as your boot drive. I suspect that your SATA DVD problem will  disappear at that point (but of course, neither can I guarantee that  this will solve the problem). You can use your IDE drive for backups  only, or disconnect it altogether. Given how much faster SATA is to IDE,  the change will

[HR][/HR]
If this doesn't work I will then go get a new hard drive.  If that still doesn't work I will be back at the posts.  Thanks again I guess I will mark this as solved.

---

