---
title: "11.04 64bit install - no mount HDD"
date: 2011-09-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by junderbr on 2011-09-07
I am trying to install 11.04 64-bit desktop version.  When it gets to the screen to set up the disk partition(s) there is no hard disk presented.  If I go into system->Disk Utility my drive is detected and it shows that it has an ntfs file system.  However it will not let me mount it (or format it or anything else) saying that the "Daemon is being prohibited".  Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated.

---

### Post by nipunshakya on 2011-09-08
^^^ If you have been running windows in your pc, you might want to create some partitions for your ubuntu (if u are going for a dual boot)...if not,I** guess** you tried to directly install your ubuntu without first testing it via LiveCD
 ....its better if you try to run/boot it first from LiveCD and use the gparted tool to edit your partitions for root and home and swap too.... 
I recommend you backup your data before formatting your HDD. Goodluck.

Regards,WinuxUser

---

### Post by junderbr on 2011-09-08
I have been running Windows XP on this box and while I have set up a number of dual boot systems in the past I am not interested in that on this box.  The problem is that I can boot the live cd (or usb ) but I cannot mount the hard disk.  I can't run gparted or anything because even though the system sees the hard drive it will not mount it.  No matter what I try to do - if it involves the hard drive I get an error telling me that the "Daemon is being prohibited"

---

### Post by nipunshakya on 2011-09-08
^^^ im sorry about this but i got no idea regarding this issue...i suggest you wait for someone to address your problem....goodluck....

---

### Post by junderbr on 2011-09-08
UPDATE:  I am able to mount the disk while running the live cd, moreover I am able to run gparted and manage/create partition(s) on the hard drive, However, when I run the installer, it does not recognize any partitions on the disk. Here is the output of fdisk -l

> 
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -l

Disk /dev/sda: 1000.2 GB, 1000204886016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 121601 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00087982

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1               1      121601   976760001   83  Linux



---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-09-08
Has this disk ever been a member of a Windows RAID array?
Do you care about the data on this disk?
Please post
[COLOR="DarkSlateBlue"]sudo sfdisk -luS[/COLOR]

---

### Post by junderbr on 2011-09-08
Not to my knowledge and no, it can all go.

sudo fdisk -luS
> 
ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -luS
fdisk: option requires an argument -- 'S'

Usage:
 fdisk [options] <disk>    change partition table
 fdisk [options] -l <disk> list partition table(s)
 fdisk -s <partition>      give partition size(s) in blocks

Options:
 -b <size>                 sector size (512, 1024, 2048 or 4096)
 -c                        switch off DOS-compatible mode
 -h                        print help
 -u <size>                 give sizes in sectors instead of cylinders
 -v                        print version
 -C <number>               specify the number of cylinders
 -H <number>               specify the number of heads
 -S <number>               specify the number of sectors per track


so here is sudo fdisk -lu

> 
Disk /dev/sda: 1000.2 GB, 1000204886016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 121601 cylinders, total 1953525168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00087982

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1              63  1953520064   976760001   83  Linux


For what its worth, maybe I should be saying that the installer doesn't recognize the disk at all.  That is it doesn't show partitions, free space or anything, there is just nothing there.

---

### Post by YesWeCan on 2011-09-08
[COLOR="Red"]s[/COLOR]fdisk -luS

The installer is not very communicative. Sometimes GPT headers cause problems. sfdisk will detect them.

If a disk has dmraid superblocks the disk may be shown as blank.

Try
sudo dmraid -E -r /dev/sda

---

### Post by junderbr on 2011-09-08
YesYouDid!  Now that's change I can believe in!!!

Thanks.  problem solved.

---

