---
title: "12.04 Suspend REALLY messes the graphics up upon awakening. Any fix for this?"
date: 2013-09-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 777funk on 2013-09-05
After a Suspend, my graphics go nuts. I have a hard time seeing any icons or the task bar or commands on the top bar. Any fix for this?

---

### Post by crazymonkey05 on 2013-09-05
do you have proper drivers?

---

### Post by 777funk on 2013-09-05
Would that be for video? I'd think so, but who knows. I do know it runs fine until I hit Suspend... then not so good.

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-09-05
If you have an nvidia graphics card, try the proprietary nvidia drivers. Suspend hasn't worked for me with nouveau. Works fine in Debian and Fedora, but not in Ubuntu for some reason. With the nvidia drivers, everything works fine.

---

### Post by 777funk on 2013-09-05
I have this driver:
GeForce 6150SE nForce 430/PCI/SSE2/3DNOW! 

and it's on a Dell Optiplex (AMD from about 5 or 6 years back). Seems to work just great, *until* I hibernate.

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-09-06
> **777funk said:**
> I have this driver:
GeForce 6150SE nForce 430/PCI/SSE2/3DNOW! 

and it's on a Dell Optiplex (AMD from about 5 or 6 years back). Seems to work just great, *until* I hibernate.

That's not a driver, that's your graphics adaptor. Have you installed the proprietary nvidia drivers? They are not installed by default - the default is the free nouveau driver.

---

### Post by 777funk on 2013-09-06
It says next to that text in the system information on Video
Driver  -  GeForce 6150SE nForce 430/PCI/SSE2/3DNOW!

And also has a dot next to that on the page where I can choose between vid drivers. But what's weird is that it doesn't let me change drivers. It just says downloading then stops.

---

### Post by sgage on 2013-09-06
Try this in a terminal:

> sudo apt-get install nvidia-current

At some point it might seem to be stuck, but it takes time as it automatically compiles a module for your system.

---

### Post by 777funk on 2013-09-06
Thanks sgage, Just tried that and it worked fine but still getting the weird issue after (only after) a suspend.

---

### Post by 777funk on 2013-09-07
bump. I am getting sore eyes from looking at the digitized icons that I can't quite read! lol.

---

### Post by 777funk on 2013-09-09
anyone? ;)

---

