---
title: "14.04.1 Cannot Open X11 Display"
date: 2015-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by buntuyu on 2015-10-29
Hi. At wits' end here.

This is a new 14.04.1 Gnome Install. I'm using Gnome Flashback Metacity

1) I can't set the DISPLAY variable (to ":0.0", for example), such that I can launch GUI apps, or run x2x.  

Trying to log in with x2x i get:
No protocol specified
x2x - error: can not open display :0.0

2) Consequentially, while trying to fix the above, I completely messed up the settings for a particular user account, such that I can't even launch apps from the command line locally (from native keyboard or console).  (Example: typing "gimp" at the command line yields: "No protocol specified[newline]Cannot open display:")

-------------

Please help resolve the first problem, and, also, what user config files should I blow away to fix problem #2 (the problem is just with one Ubuntu account - the others allow launching GUI apps on the command line - but x2x doesn't work for ANY of the accounts) ?

thx

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-10-30
Create a new userid. 
Does that fix it?  If so, you now have all the working files to compare to broken files using whatever diff-tool you like. I like **meld**.

---

### Post by buntuyu on 2015-11-08
Well, by all indication, creating a new user account would eliminate the SECOND problem.

But not the initial one - the inability to set and use the DISPLAY variable remotely, like, over ssh.

With  "normal" (?)  configurations, setting "export DISPLAY=:0.0" allows one to launch gnome apps from terminal, while logged in remotely. ALSO:  i would guess that, due to the same cause, my x2x is not working.
When issuing an x2x command, i get:

No protocol specified
x2x - error: can not open display :0.0

All other GUI apps fail with similar "couldn't open the X11 display", when I launch them from remote terminal.

---

### Post by TheFu on 2015-11-08
I'm confused.  How many systems? Can  you  ssh? Is the local machine running an X/Server?
Please  show exact commands and use an xterm for testing. Nothing that requires 3D-GPU support.

X-Windows has weenie authentication.

---

