---
title: "9.04: What does Meta-R do and how can I undo it?"
date: 2009-05-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by DrHow on 2009-05-22
I wanted to try the magnifier in orca.  To configure it says, "For a text-only guided setup, open a Run dialog with Alt+F2 or Meta+R and use the command orca --text-setup Enter."  Not ever having heard of a function to which Meta-R is bound, I decided to try it.  Well, it does not bring up a command line entry dialogue.  What it does is to zoom the screen somewhat and scroll its content as I move the mouse.  I don't really like it all that much; but, aside from rebooting, I have not figured out how to get out of the mode once in it.

I figured it might have something to do with accessibility features, so I went ahead and configured orca.  But when I tried to run it after rebooting, it did not work, reporting "TIMEOUT: something has hung.  Aborting."  So I am out of luck there.  I would still like a magnifier; but it does not have to be for accessibility - just so I can see individual pixels.

---

### Post by DrHow on 2009-05-22
OK, I have found the documentation.  The feature is called Enhanced Zoom Desktop and is described under Visual Effects.  The effect is to zoom the current window to fill the screen.  The amount of zoom depends on the size of the window.  The documentation in Visual Effects does not say how to cancel such a zoom, but a good way to do so is to select the desktop and zoom that.  (Oddly, I find that the other Super- (aka Meta-) keys documented there do not work as advertised.)

But there is more!:  After installing the CompizConfig Settings Manager, I see that Meta-[scroll-wheel] will do and undo this zoom.  I now find that I appreciate this feature.

There is clearly a deficiency in the documentation for how to configure orca.

---

