---
title: "9.10 -- accessing the GRUB menu"
date: 2010-01-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by atravnic on 2010-01-18
It took me 3 shots at installing 9.10 (some people are just a little slow) in dual mode with Vista, but I finally got it right. As a by-product of stumbling around like that I now have multiple entries in the GRUB menu and would like to remove the ones I no longer need. How do I do that? 

I assume each menu entry represents a chunk of code that is, likewise, no longer needed. I would like to free up that space. How can I make sure I'm deleting the correct version?

I also wonder how I can copy/paste the menu here to make it easier for all to see.

Finally, I assume the latest entry in the menu is shown first. Is there any way to get at time and date when entries are made?

Thank you in advance.         ...Fred

---

### Post by stomakmonkee on 2010-01-18
Maybe just run a "sudo update-grub" and force it to rediscover actual installed operating systems.

---

### Post by -kg- on 2010-01-18
Easier to do would be to post a snapshot of the partitions on your hard drive.  I suspect that when you attempted to install Ubuntu the second time, you didn't delete the old partitions first, right?  And if so, the same would be true of the third attempt.  That would give you three sets of partitions, one for each attempt including the successful one.

Upon the successful 3rd attempt at installation, the GRUB installer would detect the previous two, giving you the multiple entries in GRUB.  This will be confirmed if you get the same multiple entries after running "sudo update-grub.

To give us a snapshot of your hard drive partitions, you will need to click on "System/Administration/GPartEd".  Once GPartEd has launched, your hard drive with all it's partitions will be displayed.  If you have more than one physical hard drive, make sure the correct one is displayed.

Once you have this up, you need to take a snapshot of it.  Click on "Applications/Accessories/Take Screenshot".  Click the "Grab Current Window" radio button, set the "Grab After A Delay" to 1 second, uncheck the "Include Pointer" checkbox, and click "Take Screenshot". Save it to your desktop, then post the results here.

My bet is you'll have three ext4 root partitions, one of which is marked "/" (root), which will be your active root partition, and three swap files (you only need one).  You will need to delete the other two partitions, two of the three swap files, then you'll need to run "sudo update-grub" using the Live CD, since you likely won't be able to boot back into the installation on the hard disk without updating GRUB.

Since it's a new installation, and you probably don't have much in the way of data or files in it, you might want to consider just reinstalling it correctly.  If you want to go that route, you'll need to delete all the ext4 and swap partitions (be *_sure_* you don't delete your Vista partition(s)!  They'll be the ones marked as ntfs) and do an installation.

But that's (possibly) in the future.  Let's get the screenshot first and look at your partition scheme.  If you would like to learn more about partitioning, click on the link in my signature block.

---

### Post by atravnic on 2010-01-20
[QUOTE=-kg-;8688137]Easier to do would be to post a snapshot of the partitions on your hard drive.  I suspect that when you attempted to install Ubuntu the second time, you didn't delete the old partitions first, right?  And if so, the same would be true of the third attempt.  That would give you three sets of partitions, one for each attempt including the successful one.

To give us a snapshot of your hard drive partitions, you will need to click on "System/Administration/GPartEd".  Once GPartEd has launched, your hard drive with all it's partitions will be displayed.  If you have more than one physical hard drive, make sure the correct one is displayed.

Once you have this up, you need to take a snapshot of it.  Click on "Applications/Accessories/Take Screenshot".  Click the "Grab Current Window" radio button, set the "Grab After A Delay" to 1 second, uncheck the "Include Pointer" checkbox, and click "Take Screenshot". Save it to your desktop, then post the results here.

''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
**Hi kg** -- First, and above all, let me tell you how very much I appreciate the time and effort you put into your well-articulated response. And you're quite right, I did not delete any partitions. (Question: how much overhead does a partition take? Where I'm going with this is, if the overhead is small, might cleaning up not be worth it?)

Okay, one step at a time. (Note: I'm using two unconnected computers: one the budding Vista / Ubuntu machine not yet fully configured, the other, my main computer, running Ubuntu 8.04 which has all the feel-good, comfy stuff that makes life easy.) Using the dual OS machine, I got as far as "System/Administration/GPartEd" in your instructions and could not find  GPartEd. 

Hoping to salvage something useful, and using your instructions, I went ahead and did the sudo update-grub on the dual machine, copied the results into a USB drive and foolishly thought I could paste them here, but all I got was this lousy URL: /media/KINGSTON/grub/Screenshot-atravnic@atravnic-laptop_ ~.png. Oh well.

Meanwhile, to make things more workable, I will configure the dual machine so I can do everything there instead of having to jump back and forth.

Thanks again!         ...Fred

---

### Post by atravnic on 2010-01-22
Hi kg -- I did get the GRUB menu saved in my desktop and dragged / dropped it into this message. Here's the URL:
file:///home/atravnic/Desktop/Screenshot-atravnic@atravnic-laptop:%20~.png
I had expected to get the text, but maybe this will work for you. Thanks, and have a shivery weekend.   ...Fred

---

### Post by -kg- on 2010-01-24
[LIST]
[/LIST]

Uh, no, that URL won't work.  That is a URL pointing to a local file on your machine and I can't access your hard drive.

What you need to do is to click on the "Attachments" button in the Reply window (the picture of the paper clip on the top row, right next to the "Smilies" button).  This will bring up a window called "Manage Attachments."  There, you will be able to browse your computer for the file, which you can upload to the board and attach it to your reply.

I'll give you an example of its use.  It's one of the screen shots that I used in the creation of the "How To Partition" documentation in my signature block:

---

### Post by -kg- on 2010-01-24
[LIST]
[/LIST]

In the mean time, I noticed a few peripheral questions in the post before, so I'll try and answer them (and try to be brief in my answers :P ).

> (Question: how much overhead does a partition take? Where I'm going with this is, if the overhead is small, might cleaning up not be worth it?)

An easy, but difficult question to answer.  When you have a new computer, normally the hard drive has only one or two partitions on it:

[IMG]http://i431.photobucket.com/albums/qq39/ubun1uc/NewPrimNTPart.png[/IMG]

When you install Ubuntu in a dual boot configuration, the partitioner in the Ubuntu installer shrinks this partition and creates its own partitions in the space that it freed up. It will fill the freed up space completely.

If, say, you install another distribution of Linux, that distro's installer will shrink one or the other partition until it has space to create its own partitions, then fill that free space with its partitions, etc.

When you installed Ubuntu 3 times, each time you installed (apparently failed or not) it further shrank either the Windows partition or the partition(s) of the previous installs to create free space for the installation being done.

So it's not a matter of "overhead", per se, but more a matter of hard drive and partition space.  Each time you install, you have less and less physical hard drive space available for your OS installation's partitions.

Unless you can find a way to use the other partitions, those partitions are basically wasted hard drive space that you could be using for your active installations.  What I think happened is that your hard drive is something similar to the partitioning scheme I posted in my previous post.  Not that bad, naturally, but you get the point.

If that's the case, yes, the overhead will be wasting a lot of space that you could be using and one way or another you want to reclaim that space.

> Using the dual OS machine, I got as far as "System/Administration/GPartEd" in your instructions and could not find GPartEd.

OK, I couldn't remember whether I had to install GPartEd from the repos in Karmic.  If that's the case, you will need to boot to the Live CD and access it from there.  Same difference, and GPartEd is definitely on the Live CD.

If you have multiple partitions created on your hard drive, the reason that I advocate just deleting all of them and doing a fresh reinstall from scratch is that when you delete a partition, you change the IDing and numbering conventions of the remaining partitions.  GRUBs references to these partitions will then be incorrect, resulting in you not being able to boot to the remaining partitions, with the possible exception of Windows, which is chainloaded.

You can recover from this by booting to the Live CD, finding the /boot partition of the desired installation, and going through a process to correct the entries in GRUB there, but if you don't have a "seasoned" installation, it's so much easier to just start over again and install it the right way.

If you're wanting to do this for the learning experience, then this process is described in a number of places in these forums and elsewhere on the web.  I've never had to do this so I'm not really in a position to give you instructions on the procedure, but there are quite a few posts and tutorials here and elsewhere.  I can help you with deleting the unnecessary partitions and resizing the ones you want. [Here is a good tutorial]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Grub2#Recover%20Grub%202%20via%20LiveCD") on the various things you might find useful with this and other GRUB 2 operations.

With the re-installation procedure, should you decide to go that route, I'm more than happy and willing to help you with that.  I have a lot of experience with hard drive partitioning operations and installation, using any of the partitioning options in the installer (a *LOT* of it! :P ).

I personally prefer the Manual option, since it gives me more control over the size and positioning of the partitions, as well as being able to add other partitions, like a separate /home, but any will work (except, of course, "Use The Whole Disk", which you obviously don't want to use if you want to dual boot).

---

### Post by atravnic on 2010-01-24
Hi there -- Yeah, that occurred to me after I sent the reply -- duh! But I still wouldn't have known how to handle it. So here goes.

Hmmm, 10 minutes later: Well, it must be here somewhere cause when I click the attachment paper clip, it's there, but I'll be damned if I know where exactly. So I'll just take it on faith and send this reply

Oh BTW, thank you for your help and your patience.       ...Fred
...................................................................

> **-kg- said:**
> [LIST]
[/LIST]

Uh, no, that URL won't work.  That is a URL pointing to a local file on your machine and I can't access your hard drive.

What you need to do is to click on the "Attachments" button in the Reply window (the picture of the paper clip on the top row, right next to the "Smilies" button).  This will bring up a window called "Manage Attachments."  There, you will be able to browse your computer for the file, which you can upload to the board and attach it to your reply.

I'll give you an example of its use.  It's one of the screen shots that I used in the creation of the "How To Partition" documentation in my signature block:

---

### Post by jt_becker on 2010-01-24
Hi, I am having a similar problem. When I installed Ubuntu 9.10 alongside Windows 7 it worked great and the grub on showed the linux, the recovery, the memory test and windows 7. The the grub got updated and there where two linux and two recovery options. Both linux options led to the same place. Then it was updated again and now shows 3 linux partitions and 3 recoverys. I checked my GPartEd and i could not figure it out as it only shows my one linux partition. Is there a way i can just remove options from the grub's list?

---

### Post by atravnic on 2010-01-24
Here, attached, is the GPartEd oputput (and yes, I had to go to LiveCD to get it)

---

### Post by Jackzor on 2010-01-24
> **jt_becker said:**
> Hi, I am having a similar problem. When I installed Ubuntu 9.10 alongside Windows 7 it worked great and the grub on showed the linux, the recovery, the memory test and windows 7. The the grub got updated and there where two linux and two recovery options. Both linux options led to the same place. Then it was updated again and now shows 3 linux partitions and 3 recoverys. I checked my GPartEd and i could not figure it out as it only shows my one linux partition. Is there a way i can just remove options from the grub's list?

Those are prolly different linux kernals. Same OS. Anyways. Check here: [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1338836](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1338836)

---

