---
title: "10.04, every time I unplug the AC adapter, the laptop crashes"
date: 2010-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cusinmex on 2010-05-10
After an upgrade to 10.04, every time I unplug
the AC adapter, the laptop crashes, and immediately shuts down
and restarts, and will boot up normal, and shut down  again as 
soon as it reaches the login screen..

The laptop only runs fine when the cable is plugged in

I'm assuming this has something to do with the gnome power manager.

I'm running an HP Pavilion dv4-2012la .

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-10
Support request post. Moved out of sticky.

---

### Post by Mark Phelps on 2010-05-10
There have been reported power management problems in 10.04.

While it's possible your battery is dead (or nearly so), you could check that out by booting from an earlier LiveCD (9.04 or 9.10) and checking the battery state there.

If the battery is OK, it's one of the 10.04 power management problems.

---

### Post by freddiespagheti on 2010-05-25
I'm having the same problem as well on an Acer Aspire One KAV60.
The solution from the [[COLOR="Navy"]sticky[/COLOR]]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1469475") doesn't work because the value is already unchecked.

Edit: To be clear, it's definitely not the battery because when the computer boots into Windows, it works just fine.

---

### Post by fuat on 2010-08-17
I had exactly the same problem with the same machine, here is what solved it for me..
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463355](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1463355)

---

### Post by freddiespagheti on 2010-08-23
fuat, thanks for the suggestion but there aren't any drivers available to be installed in Hardware Drivers. I even reinstalled 9.10 and it was still an issue. I don't really know what to do about it.

---

