---
title: "11.10 Must re-login after startup to get a usable environment"
date: 2011-11-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Chubbs[] on 2011-11-23
Just recently did a fresh install of 11.10 and when I login to Ubuntu for the first time (say after a reboot) I believe compiz freezes, as I can start programs, but I cannot close them, enlarge them, or minimize them. In addition, I cannot right click on my desktop to create a folder, doc, change background etc.

I have ccsm installed, then only setting I change is so that the launcher never hides. Also, I have tried using FGLRX driver and no luck.

So here is a summary of what happens...

1. Turn on computer, login to my account (Unity 3D)
2. Everything looks normal, but cannot right click anywhere on desktop, can't move/resize programs. 
3. Do a ctrl+alt+del to logout, can't use the mouse, must select option with keyboard.
4. Login again, everything works perfectly.

Any suggestions on what to do or what is causing this?

Just an update: Did a complete reinstall of the OS, still having the problem. 

Another update: Ran memtest for 12 hours, 16 passes no errors, still having the problem.

Is this only me?

---

### Post by Chubbs[] on 2011-11-28
Solved.

Was overclocked. mprime ran 12 hours until rounding error. Reverted to stock, mprime ran 24 hours no error. Then wiped ssd and upgraded firmware on it. Then installed 11.04 from cd and did an upgrade 11.10. Then installed proprietary drivers. Then installed latest version of Dropbox. Then computer works perfectly.

---

