---
title: "V10.04 vs. Asus EeePC 901"
date: 2010-05-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by number0 on 2010-05-11
Trying to get Ubuntu 10.04 netbook remix to install the Asus EeePC 901 via the update manager, but realised my friend (not being a computer genius myself) had installed the previous OS on the 4GB smaller partitioned drive, leaving the 16GB drive totally empty. Unsurprisingly im getting 'not enough free space' even after clearing everything it lets me delete. So my problem is not enough space for 10.04 - can i get it on the same drive 4GB somehow OR can i install it across to the larger drive OR do i need to start again from scratch? :confused:

---

### Post by chappajar on 2010-05-11
> **number0 said:**
> Trying to get Ubuntu 10.04 netbook remix to install the Asus EeePC 901 via the update manager, but realised my friend (not being a computer genius myself) had installed the previous OS on the 4GB smaller partitioned drive, leaving the 16GB drive totally empty. Unsurprisingly im getting 'not enough free space' even after clearing everything it lets me delete. So my problem is not enough space for 10.04 - can i get it on the same drive 4GB somehow OR can i install it across to the larger drive OR do i need to start again from scratch? :confused:

Not quite sure what you're saying: Ubuntu is currently installed on the 4 GB partition, and the 16 GB partition is empty? 
Boot a LiveCD and use gparted to delete the 16 GB partition, and then expand the 4 GB partition to 20 GB.  Problem solved without reinstalling.

---

### Post by landymann on 2010-05-11
I would do a reinstall and format the 16gb drive as ext3 with the label /home and the 4gb drive as ext3 with the rest of the os. The eee has two SSD's in it, a fast 4gb drive or the OS and a slower 16gb drive for documents. The reason I say ext3 as opposed to ext4 is that when there are bad sectors on the ssd the system just completely hangs and you have to repair the disk with a live CD, and ext3 doesn't use the bad blocks but ext4 does or something, but thats just my experience on my eee 1000.

---

### Post by lightstream on 2010-05-11
From what landymann says, it seems it would be worth keeping Ubuntu on the smaller 4Gb partition.

If the home folder has become full with various things and it is also on the 4Gb drive, then moving your home folder to a separate partition would be the way to go. There are a lot of step-by-step guides on the internet to help you do this.

You can also install Ubuntu without as many bells and whistles. As you already have an installation, I'm not 100% sure how you'd do this - basically it would involve uninstalling some larger packages which you don't need. The update shouldn't try to put them back, thus less space should be acceptable.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2010-05-11
I would recommend a fresh reinstall to the fast 4gb drive, with the slow 16gb drive being used for storage of documents, images, music, etc.

---

### Post by number0 on 2010-05-11
Thanks all, Ive only had a little experience with installing/upgrading new OS to this computer, so I'll try a few of the suggestions to upgrade without starting over, but I can feel a new install coming down the line.

---

