---
title: "(10.04) Cannot create Custom Application Launcher."
date: 2011-10-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Syrinx Priest on 2011-10-25
I cannot create a custom application launcher in 10.04, Which is weird because I use to make a lot after a fresh install. I wanted to make one yesterday but the options: (Right click on desktop "Add Launcher", right click "Add to Panel..." were non existent. Even the 'Edit' option in a right click drop down menu was gone. I have screenshots to make words easier. Please if anyone can help..

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-25
Have you got the normal nautilus in your system and not changed to nautilus-elementary?  I do not even know if that would account for that change;  I'm thinking as I write.

What other changes have you made?  None of this ability to make launchers or add applets is missing in my system, also running 10.04.

---

### Post by Syrinx Priest on 2011-10-25
I found a solution; I just reset the desktop settings via Ubuntu-Tweak. I'm pretty sure that Ubuntu-Tweak wasn't the cause. I don't have anything elementary project or related installed. I don't think that would matter, Thanks anyway for your input ajgreeny.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-10-25
> **Syrinx Priest said:**
> I found a solution; I just reset the desktop settings via Ubuntu-Tweak. I'm pretty sure that Ubuntu-Tweak wasn't the cause. I don't have anything elementary project or related installed. I don't think that would matter, Thanks anyway for your input ajgreeny.
Just for reference, what had you changed with ubuntu-tweak that caused the problem, or do you mean you had to install it to get rid of the problem?

---

