---
title: "12.04 Middle Click no longer working on MacBook Pro"
date: 2012-04-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kevinodell25 on 2012-04-27
I am running a Ubuntu 12.04 on the MacBook Pro.  The three finger middle click worked fine on 11.10, but as soon as I upgraded I lost that functionality(although I must say everything else is rocking!).  Does anyone have any ideas?  I tried to alter my /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/50-synaptics.conf


Section "InputClass"
        Identifier "touchpad ignore duplicates"
        MatchIsTouchpad "on"
        MatchOS "Linux"
        MatchDevicePath "/dev/input/mouse*"
        Option "Ignore" "on"
Option "TapButton1" "1" <-- I added
Option "TapButton2" "2" <-- I added
Option "TapButton3" "3" <-- I added

---

### Post by codingman on 2012-04-27
Have you been ignoring package manager's installations? 'Cause they usually have new kernel's and drivers.

---

### Post by kevinodell25 on 2012-04-27
codingman,

  No I actually installed all of the new packages and removed the recommended old ones upon the upgrade.

---

### Post by gbuonfiglio on 2012-05-09
Hello Kevin,

Have you find a solution? I have the same problem here.
When I try to paste, it brings me the "move window" instead, so I guess it's a matter of rearranging what the three finger click does.
Btw four finger clicking give me the same as pressing the super key. I don't remember if this was the case in 11.10.

[]s,
Guilherme

---

### Post by kevinodell25 on 2012-05-10
I am sorry for the late response.  I went a REALLY round about way and installed the touchpad drivers for KDE with synaptic.  From there I disabled all touch clicks except the three fingers so that I can single click for left, double click for right, and three finger tap for middle mouse button.

---

