---
title: "[SOLVED] Ibex or Heron?"
date: 2008-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Fc1032 on 2008-11-08
Hello All,

In 2 weeks time, I will be traveling overseas to HK:D. When I get there, I will be buying a laptop online and should recieve it within 3 days of purchase. 

However, I am currently having difficulty choosing which ubuntu to bring with me overseas. I have used Heron before, and it worked well for me, all was stable and most stuff worked OTB. With Ibex, my ride has been alot more bumpy. My first issue was the startup, the screen went black after log-in: I found a work about though. Then, upon shutdown, a bunch of commands come up but does not shut down automatically, i have to manually press the power button to turn off the computer (haven't found a work about yet...)

So my question is, should I bring Heron or Ibex (Although there have been bugs, Ibex has been faster in start up and operation) with me (I have both ISO's)? I don't want to bring both... i won't have full access to internet, so i might have difficulty finding solutions to any OTHER bugs in ibex:(


Thanks in advance!:KS

---

### Post by exploder on 2008-11-08
I would choose Hardy because it is more mature and has far less bugs at this point in time.

---

### Post by Skripka on 2008-11-08
> **Fc1032 said:**
> Hello All,

In 2 weeks time, I will be traveling overseas to HK:D. When I get there, I will be buying a laptop online and should recieve it within 3 days of purchase. 

However, I am currently having difficulty choosing which ubuntu to bring with me overseas. I have used Heron before, and it worked well for me, all was stable and most stuff worked OTB. With Ibex, my ride has been alot more bumpy. My first issue was the startup, the screen went black after log-in: I found a work about though. Then, upon shutdown, i have to manually press the power button to turn off the computer (haven't found a work about yet...)

So my question is, should I bring Heron or Ibex (Although there have been bugs, Ibex has been faster in start up and operation) with me (I have both ISO's)? I don't want to bring both... i won't have full access to internet, so i might have difficulty finding solutions to any OTHER bugs in ibex:(


Thanks in advance!:KS

I'd take Hardy.  You know it works, and don't have to worry about as much trouble-shooting without internets.  Of course, if you want to have an Ibex setup down the road, there's also an argument for getting on Intrepid now, to save migrating later.  My machine was a tabula rasa install on my system partition with all prior preferences nuked from my previous *untu distros I had loaded, it worked for the most part--but to get everything where it is needed an internet connection for troubleshooting and download.


BTW-take grab Apt-Get-On-CD off ADD/Remove if you haven't and make a CD backup of all your apt-get packages, it has saved my neck several times when my net wasn't yet working and I was needing packages or softwares in the wilderness without a net connection.


6 of one, half a dozen of the other.

---

### Post by Fc1032 on 2008-11-09
Thank you everyone,

I think I should stick with Heron until most of the little bugs in Ibex are fixed :)

Can I ask one further question?
I have been reading about 'laptop mode' in ubuntu. So far I am confused about how it works. I've read it makes the laptop more energy efficient but 'kills' the hard drive. Can someone clarify these 'rumors'.

THanks again :KS

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-11-09
> **exploder said:**
> I would choose Hardy because it is more mature and has far less bugs at this point in time.

How many bugs does hardy have and how many does ibex have?

---

### Post by Fc1032 on 2008-11-09
Well I pointed out 2 bugs I encountered in Ibex. They are:

1. After login, the screen goes black, nothing can be done except manual shutting down by power button.

Work around: remove compiz by recovery mode

2. Ibex does not automatically shutdown. It 'hangs' at a command line saying it will shutdown but doesn't.

Haven't found a work around for this problem yet (the network fix didn't work for me)

There are other bugs that other people have had like sound problems after pressing FN buttons.

I only had one bug with hardy and that was totem playing videos in blue, but that was only on one computer.

---

### Post by exploder on 2008-11-09
Don't forget the eject and screen saver bugs in Ibex as well.

---

### Post by Fc1032 on 2008-11-09
exploder, can you explain 'laptop' mode to me and clarify the advantages and disadvantages of it in hardy?

Thanks:KS

---

### Post by exploder on 2008-11-09
All I know is that it is supposed to cut down on energy use and throttle the processor down to help with the heat generated by a laptop. I am sure there is a more technical explanation somewhere.

Edit: There are claims that hard drive life is not especially affected by running in this mode. Some say it decreases the life of the hard drive but I have never seen any hard data to prove either claim.

---

### Post by Fc1032 on 2008-11-09
Maybe I should just get power saving software for ubuntu instead... I think that will be a safer option for now:)

[Edit] Thanks everyone! I my final decision: Stick with Hardy, ignore 'laptop mode' and use power settings on new laptop! 

Your help is greatly appreciated!

---

### Post by hyper_ch on 2008-11-10
> **Fc1032 said:**
> Well I pointed out 2 bugs I encountered in Ibex. They are:

Well that's two bugs and I don't experience them...

---

