---
title: "Automount problem"
date: 2009-07-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by blues2use on 2009-07-17
I have a desktop pc (running XP/Jaunty dual boot) and two laptops (one running XP and the other running XP/Jaunty dual boot) on my local network. 

The laptop running just XP has an external usb hard drive that I can read/write files to and from on my desktop pc running Jaunty that automounts that drive and shows it on the desktop but my laptop running Jaunty won't automount or show it on the desktop. 

I followed the same setup that I used on my desktop pc and I can mount the drive and show it on the jaunty laptop's desktop only by using "sudo mount -a" from the terminal. Apparently, I have missed something somewhere in the laptop's configuration that prevents the automount from running and showing the mount on the desktop.

Any/all suggestions for fixing this would be most welcome.

btw - I followed the automount how-to from the forum and it worked first time on the desktop pc and has yet to work on the laptop...[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=293513](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=293513)

Thanks

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-07-17
The *sudo mount -a* command you use must mean that the external disk is listed in /etc/fstab, which an external disk should not normally appear in.  Have a look in that file and see if there is an entry for that disk, and if so remove it.

I can not think of any other reason for your problem, but if it is not in the fstab file, I'm afraid I'm as baffled as you.

---

### Post by merlinus on 2009-07-17
Did you look in System/Preferences/Removable Drives and Media and tick the appropriate boxes?

---

### Post by blues2use on 2009-07-17
> **merlinus said:**
> Did you look in System/Preferences/Removable Drives and Media and tick the appropriate boxes?

There's nothing listed for that in System/Preferences/Removable Drives and Media.

Additionally, as stated previously, I setup my jaunty pc and my jaunty laptop identically for the external usb hard drive network share on the XP only laptop.  It is listed on both jaunty systems as /media/mybook; i.e., jaunty desktop pc **(A)** can see the XP only laptop **(B)** external hard drive but jaunty laptop **(C)** cannot see the external hard drive on **(B)**. I can see it via the Places/Network function and I can mount it using sudo mount -a. It will then appear on the desktop of my jaunty laptop **(C)** until I log out or restart. It never appears automatically mounted and showing on desktop like it does on **(A)**.

Additionally, if I issue "sudo mount /media/mybook" on the jaunty laptop **(C)**, the mount occurs and the desktop icon appears as it should. I can log out and log back in and it stays mounted but as soon as I restart, the automount fails to occur and show the icon on the desktop of the jaunty laptop **(C)**.

My /etc/fstab from the **_jaunty laptop_** is:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=7d7432e5-2847-4618-9095-ef5c0a1bc6e1 / ext3
defaults,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda1 :
UUID=00086ACB086ABEF2 /media/drv0 ntfs-3g defaults 0 0
# mybook external hard drive on Dell6000 follows on next line
//DELL6000/My\040Book\040(F) /media/mybook cifs
credentials=/root/.smbcredentials,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0

I followed the exact same setup for the jaunty laptop as I did on the jaunty desktop pc. The jaunty desktop pc shows the mount on the desktop at boot (as it should).

Here's the **_jaunty desktop pc's /etc/fstab_**:

# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
proc            /proc           proc        defaults    0   0
# /dev/sda2
UUID=39daccc2-7c15-4ac9-a858-89817b7f50d8     /               ext3        defaults,errors=remount-ro    0   1
# /dev/sda1
UUID=EC5C389C5C38638C       /media/drv0       ntfs-3g         defaults      0   0
# mybook external hard drive on Dell6000 follows on next line
//DELL6000/My\040Book\040(F)    /media/mybook        cifs    credentials=/root/.smbcredentials,iocharset=utf8,file_mode=0777,dir_mode=0777 0 0

The **-only-** difference between the two /etc/fstab files is in the comments section where these 3 lines are in the laptop's /etc/fstab but not in the desktop's /etc/fstab:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config --

I don't know if this is a clue or not...

I know this all looks rather convoluted but it the best way I can explain what is happening.

Your assistance is greatly appreciated.

---

