---
title: "Can't edit grub.cfg; Ubuntu will not save the file even though I use sudo"
date: 2009-12-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by gsparky2004 on 2009-12-14
I'm trying to edit the grub.cfg file in /boot/grub/.  I'm using the command:
```

sudo gedit grub.cfg
```

while in the appropriate directory.  I removed the lines for the last two editions of Ubuntu, then I hit "save".  I got an error stating:

[B]Could not save the file /boot/grub/grub.cfg.
You are trying to save the file on a read-only disk. Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again.[/B]

I've made numerous changes to both grub and other protected files this way and never had a problem.  What gives?

---

### Post by jbrown96 on 2009-12-14
You should not be editing this file. Just read the first few lines of it. > #                                                         
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE                                   
#                                                         
# It is automatically generated by /usr/sbin/grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub                    
#                                                                         



---

### Post by lmarmisa on 2009-12-14
If you want to remove the old versions of the kernel from grub.cfg, uninstall them (their names are linux-image-2.6...) from synaptic.

Then type this command:

```

sudo update-grub2

```Be very careful and do not remove the current version of kernel!!!. I would recommend you to maintain the previous version too. I like to have a backup version of the kernel program.

Best regards,

Luis

---

### Post by gsparky2004 on 2009-12-14
Okay.  Thanks, Luis.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2009-12-14
> **gsparky2004 said:**
> I'm trying to edit the grub.cfg file in /boot/grub/.  I'm using the command:
```

sudo gedit grub.cfg
```

while in the appropriate directory.  I removed the lines for the last two editions of Ubuntu, then I hit "save".  I got an error stating:

Could not save the file /boot/grub/grub.cfg.
**You are trying to save the file on a read-only disk**. Please check that you typed the location correctly and try again.

I've made numerous changes to both grub and other protected files this way and never had a problem.  What gives?

That probably means that the disk has been mounted RO (probably due to an error).

Reboot and see if it does an auto fsck to clean things up and mount correctly.

---

### Post by lmarmisa on 2009-12-14
No error at all.

/boot/grub/grub.cfg is a non-editable file:

```

-r--r--r-- 1 root root 3319 2009-12-11 10:05 grub.cfg

```

---

### Post by sisco311 on 2009-12-14
> **dcstar said:**
> That probably means that the disk has been mounted RO (probably due to an error).

Reboot and see if it does an auto fsck to clean things up and mount correctly.

Nope, it's a security feature, gedit doesn't allows users (even root) to write read-only files.


@OP see:
[uhelp]community/Grub2[/uhelp]
[thread=1302743]Grub 2 - 5 Common Tasks[/thread]
[thread=1287602]Grub 2 Title Tweaks[/thread]
[thread=1195275]The Grub 2 Guide[/thread]

---

### Post by oldfred on 2009-12-14
Minor point, you should always use gksudo gedit and gksudo for all graphical applications and sudo for all command line.

More info on grub2:
The Grub 2 Guide (formerly Grub 2 Basics)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)
[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20.html)

---

### Post by borabosna on 2010-03-22
I had the same problem. The only thing I wanted to do was to make the countdown time 1 sec instead of the default 10 sec (so I'm not really 'editing' Grub, I'm innocent :) )

My file system was mounted ro for some reason, what I did is: I enabled root account, logged in as root, right-clicked on grub.cfg and changed permissions. Before I changed it, even root had "read-only" permissions on it. Then I logged out, logged back in as non-root user, did gksudo gedit /boot/grub/grub.cfg and I was able to save the file!

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-03-22
NO, NO, NO

You do not edit grub.cfg. The next update to anything kernel related will overwrite your changes.
 You edit /etc/default/grub see instructions:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Grub2)
The Grub 2 Guide (formerly Grub 2 Basics)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)

---

### Post by JosephC on 2010-04-14
This is very frustrating. I do not regard locking the owner out of his own system to be a feature. I have never had a problem doing this before. I am trying to configure Karmic on a relatively new Toshiba laptop (which is a bit like trying to charge up a waterfall), and I must edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg in order to add 'acpi_osi="Linux"' to my kernel boot parameters, to see if the fan will work properly, as per recent troubleshooting instructions elsewhere in this very forum. The alternative is that the fan will never turn on or never turn off, depending on the distro/BIOS vers./configuration. I can't figure it out. Either way, this machine is essentially unusable with GNU+Linux, etc., etc. So a fix is proposed, and, come to find out, it cannot be done for security reasons. What madness. Every solution to every problem creates even more problems.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-04-14
> **JosephC said:**
> This is very frustrating. I do not regard locking the owner out of his own system to be a feature. I have never had a problem doing this before. I am trying to configure Karmic on a relatively new Toshiba laptop (which is a bit like trying to charge up a waterfall), and I must edit /boot/grub/grub.cfg in order to add 'acpi_osi="Linux"' to my kernel boot parameters, to see if the fan will work properly, as per recent troubleshooting instructions elsewhere in this very forum. The alternative is that the fan will never turn on or never turn off, depending on the distro/BIOS vers./configuration. I can't figure it out. Either way, this machine is essentially unusable with GNU+Linux, etc., etc. So a fix is proposed, and, come to find out, it cannot be done for security reasons. What madness. Every solution to every problem creates even more problems.

Grub2 is configurable but you are trying to do it in an incorrect manner. To change the settings in grub.cfg, you change the information in the scripts which create it. 

Using "sudo" won't work on grub.cfg because the file is still not writable. To do what you want, which isn't recommended, you would have to "sudo chmod +w /boot/grub/grub.cfg" and then make the change.

The way Grub 2 is designed, you should edit /etc/default/grub and add the "acpi" instruction to the linux kernel line:
> GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=

Make the change, save the file, and then update grub with "sudo update-grub" and your instruction will appear in the grub menu.

To learn about Grub 2, check out the links in my signature line.

---

### Post by JosephC on 2010-04-14
Ah! Ok! Thank you very very much! I did not know that. I guess some people at the Toshiba forums also thought you could edit grub.cfg (or menu.lst) as root for Grub2 and mistakenly passed those instructions on as a possible fix for the fan problem.

I apologize for losing my patience.

---

### Post by Trickymaster on 2010-10-11
I hope I don't break rules by bumping this up. :)

So I upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 everything went fine however the entries of the previous Ubuntu version 9.10 remain there. This is what I get when I type upgrade-grub:

```
Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.35-22-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.35-22-generic
[B]Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic[/B]
Found memtest86+ image: /boot/memtest86+.bin
Found Windows NT/2000/XP (loader) on /dev/sda1
done
```I tried Synaptic packet manager to delete the images and headers manually, but couldn't find them there. I also tried Ubuntu Tweak which couldn't find the files either. I'm pretty sure they have been deleted during the installation of the new version. Now I'm still a beginner and have a hard time to simply get rid off the entries. Googled for 3 hours for a solution. No success. Can you help me?

---

### Post by JustinR on 2010-10-11
> **sisco311 said:**
> Nope, it's a security feature, gedit doesn't allows users (even root) to write read-only files.


@OP see:
[uhelp]community/Grub2[/uhelp]
[thread=1302743]Grub 2 - 5 Common Tasks[/thread]
[thread=1287602]Grub 2 Title Tweaks[/thread]
[thread=1195275]The Grub 2 Guide[/thread]

You can use 'gksudo gedit' to edit any file in GEdit, regardless of user permissions on the file.

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-12
> **Trickymaster said:**
> I hope I don't break rules by bumping this up. :)

So I upgraded to Ubuntu 10.10 everything went fine however the entries of the previous Ubuntu version 9.10 remain there. This is what I get when I type upgrade-grub:

```

[B]Found linux image: /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic
Found initrd image: /boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic[/B]
 Can you help me?

If you ever had Grub legacy in 9.10 (or earlier if you did online updates) take a look in the /boot/grub folder for an old *menu.lst* file. Since the entries are coming up before memtest86+, it means Grub is finding them on your running Ubuntu partition. 

When grub runs it's updates, it looks for kernels but it also looks for old menu.lst and grub.cfg files. If there is still a menu.lst file in your system folder it might be getting the old kernels from there.

If you don't find a file, so a search for the kernels that are showing up in the menu:
[CODE]sudo find / -type f -name *2.6.31-22-generic
```

---

### Post by Trickymaster on 2010-10-12
> **drs305 said:**
> If you ever had Grub legacy in 9.10 (or earlier if you did online updates) take a look in the /boot/grub folder for an old *menu.lst* file. Since the entries are coming up before memtest86+, it means Grub is finding them on your running Ubuntu partition. 

When grub runs it's updates, it looks for kernels but it also looks for old menu.lst and grub.cfg files. If there is still a menu.lst file in your system folder it might be getting the old kernels from there.

If you don't find a file, so a search for the kernels that are showing up in the menu:
```
sudo find / -type f -name *2.6.31-22-generic
```

Hello,

I couldn't find a menu.lst. However, I used the code above and got this
```
/boot/config-2.6.31-22-generic
/boot/System.map-2.6.31-22-generic
/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic
/boot/abi-2.6.31-22-generic
/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic
/boot/vmcoreinfo-2.6.31-22-generic
```

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-10-12
> **Trickymaster said:**
> 
I couldn't find a menu.lst. However, I used the code above and got this
```
/boot/vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic
/boot/initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic

```

These are the files that are triggering the menu entries. Don't know why Synaptic and Ubuntu Tweak aren't picking them up.

If you are sure you don't need the files, you can remove them with a file browser opened as root. You can install "nautilus-gksu", which provides a right-click option to open a folder as root with Nautilus.

This command will verify the kernel in use:
```
uname -r 
```

Run "sudo update-grub" after deleting or moving the old vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic kernel and initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic

---

### Post by Trickymaster on 2010-10-12
> **drs305 said:**
> These are the files that are triggering the menu entries. Don't know why Synaptic and Ubuntu Tweak aren't picking them up.

If you are sure you don't need the files, you can remove them with a file browser opened as root. You can install "nautilus-gksu", which provides a right-click option to open a folder as root with Nautilus.

This command will verify the kernel in use:
```
uname -r 
```Run "sudo update-grub" after deleting or moving the old vmlinuz-2.6.31-22-generic kernel and initrd.img-2.6.31-22-generic
Yay! :popcorn: It worked. Thank you.

---

### Post by Hypnotic on 2012-05-22
> **oldfred said:**
> no, no, no

you do not edit grub.cfg. The next update to anything kernel related will overwrite your changes.
 You edit /etc/default/grub see instructions:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/grub2](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/grub2)
the grub 2 guide (formerly grub 2 basics)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1195275)


this is the best answer i have ever read all around web !!!!!!!!!
You damn right man !!!!!!!
Whatever i have done it returned back.
I made the file writable.
Also i tried to copy a modifed one from another directory.
But it did not help.
Some how the original file returned back after 5 minutes.
But it stays as i changed for a short time.
That's also weird.
It seemed to me there is a backup file somewhere.
Whenver it is changed, the system replaces from the backup in 5 minutes.
I believed so many times i changed or replaced the damn file.
But i noticed it returned back to the original state all the time after all...
That is pointless.
There is only one file can be edited as you mentioned.
After grub update.
Everything is as it is as i want to be !!!!!!!!!!!!!
That's the best answer ever man !!!!!!!!!

I congratulate you !!!!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2012-05-22
Old thread closed.

---

