---
title: "semi newbie BIG turn off that might make me go back to the dark side"
date: 2009-08-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by RaveJunkie on 2009-08-20
[COLOR="Blue"]semi newbie BIG turn off that might make me go back to the dark side.....

#1 and i find this SUPER silly, and i know that mouse support is 3rd party stuff, but i have a Logictech 518 mouse and i have tried 6 different things i have found on this site.  (PS i LOVE this site and the help i have got here so far and will most likly keep using Linux but after months of long night to come up empty handed on some issues that should be alot easier, its hard to tell more friends to sweitch ( I feel im pretty nerd and very good with PC's but some of this is getting out of hand)  *end rant*

#2 is that im running dual monitors on a Nividia 8800GT and i for the life of me can get a extended desktop across both monitors.  the Xmiria thing gives me two, but i can drag even across the screen and it kills my pretty compiz......


I love open source and i would LOOOOOOVE to help more but after 15 edits to my XCOF trying to fix these two issues,  but im at my wits end and the more i read the more i know im not the only one with these problems......

CAN ANYONE HELP ME?!?!?!   :(


i can give any info you need or hardware......[/COLOR]

---

### Post by serpantman on 2009-08-20
Use twinview for dual monitors silly :P. Thats what you want. Are you running jaunty? Jaunty you just run gksu nvidia-settings and select it. Twinview is really easy to set up maually too though, just google. And post back!!!

EDIT: ubuntu does have problems with some hardware support. mostly mics and webcams. from my expirerence at least. i can't really help much there i dont think.  Xmiria makes seperate x screens i think, thats why you can't drag it.

---

### Post by RaveJunkie on 2009-08-26
yes thank you learning new terms and you were right i now have the two monitors working flawless. (bit ashamed it was so ez...)  

Still cant get natuilus to do the forward and back buttons with my logictech x518 mouse though...... with get the monitors working i have such happiness im ganna stay up all night working on it again  :)

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-08-26
> **RaveJunkie said:**
> 
Still cant get natuilus to do the forward and back buttons with my logictech x518 mouse though...... 

are the buttons recognized at all? Can you bind them to stuff in compiz?
If so, we could bind those 2 buttons to alt+left and alt+right to work with nautilus.

---

### Post by RaveJunkie on 2009-08-26
[COLOR="Blue"]yes,  well i think so


here is my xconf[/COLOR]

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@crested)  Sun Feb  1 20:25:37 UTC 2009

# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder62)  Tue Mar 24 06:15:32 PST 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Configured Mouse" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier  "Configured Mouse"
        Driver      "evdev"
        Option      "SendCoreEvents" "true"
        Option      "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
        Option      "Emulate3Buttons" "true"
        Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5 6 7"
        Option      "Buttons"   "12"
        Option      "Resolution"    "400"
        Option "AllowMouseOpenFail" "true"

EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HSD HX191D"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 83.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic E90-4"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 86.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 180.0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GT"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce 8800 GT"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "TwinView" "0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +0+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-0: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0, CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT-1: nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection





[COLOR="Blue"]
here is my 

try from this....[/COLOR]. [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=606610](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=606610)


[COLOR="Blue"]then i tried this[/COLOR]

Use 1 of the terminals to create .xbindkeysrc
Code:

gedit ~/.xbindkeysrc

insert:
Code:

"/usr/bin/xvkbd -xsendevent -text "\[Alt_L]\[left]""
  b:8
"/usr/bin/xvkbd -xsendevent -text "\[Alt_L]\[right]""
  b:9


[COLOR="Blue"]
and still dont work  :(    makes me crazy[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Baneblade on 2009-08-26
> **RaveJunkie said:**
> yes thank you learning new terms and you were right i now have the two monitors working flawless. (bit ashamed it was so ez...)  

Still cant get natuilus to do the forward and back buttons with my logictech x518 mouse though...... with get the monitors working i have such happiness im ganna stay up all night working on it again  :)

I have the same mouse as yours and also found that annoying. I just googled it and followed this tutorial [here]("http://yokohead.com/2009/02/logitech-mx-518-with-gnome-in-ubuntu-810/#respond") and now they all work just fine. I realise that the article is for 8.10 but edit to X are the same, so dont worry about that, and enjoy Ubuntu! ;)

---

### Post by RaveJunkie on 2009-08-26
baneblade your THE MAN!!!! THANK YOU SOOOOO MUCH..... after months of failed xconfs and restarts  this worked  

YES!!!!!!!!!


:)   :)   :)   :)   :)   :)   :)   :)  
i cant believe that was it.....


on a side note though, they really should get a logictech and microsoft tool for BASIC set up stuff like this..... i mean im a nerd and took the time. but if we want Ubuntu to go more main stream you gotta make it more grandma friendly...... but thats a whole other talk.

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-08-26
> **RaveJunkie said:**
> 
on a side note though, they really should get a logictech and microsoft tool for BASIC set up stuff like this..... i mean im a nerd and took the time. but if we want Ubuntu to go more main stream you gotta make it more grandma friendly...... but thats a whole other talk.

Vote with your wallet and avoid manufacturers that don't put even the slightest effort to support linux. /me looks at a pile of logitech webcams and bluetooth headsets that dont work on linux despite heroic efforts by some developers to reverse engineer drivers and fix firmware issue with these devices.

Well, to be fair. Last year when I searched logitech site for "linux" or "ubuntu" you would get ZERO results. Now I tried again, and at least i see some products where they claim linux compatibility.  Hurray :)

---

### Post by RaveJunkie on 2009-08-27
Yes thank you again guys,   your the reason i love Ubuntu and staying with it.  Is there a mouse made now that supports linux?  like a high end logictech?   So far i am LOVING the speed and security of Ubuntu vs my winblows vista and windows 7.  Now that the basic issues are done i can work on the fun stuff like getting my VMare to mount and start a VM session of a HDD thats in the pc. The best part is its all free and with some of the stuff i have learned i can now help others.  Thank you again.

:KS

---

