---
title: "11.10 Live CD With Updates?"
date: 2011-11-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brianafischer on 2011-11-08
I am running a Live USB disk and would like to have the latest updates for 11.10.  How can I do this?

I am aware of the [Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (Precise Pangolin) Daily Build]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/") but I would like to run 11.10.

---

### Post by 11jmb on 2011-11-08
I believe the daily live builds only continue until the release. They are more for testing and evaluation.

---

### Post by BillyBoa on 2011-11-08
That's a good idea, a little complicated though. You should install the system, download the updates and afterwords recompile everything and create a boot CD or pen drive. I don´t know if worth the effort.

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2011-11-08
If you use the startup-disk-creator to make the USB, you can make sure there is a persistent reserved space.

This will allow you to add extra packages, though I am not absolutely sure about updates to the casper file system in the live session itself.

---

### Post by cbowman57 on 2011-11-08
> **brianafischer said:**
> I am running a Live USB disk and would like to have the latest updates for 11.10.  How can I do this?

I am aware of the [Ubuntu 12.04 LTS (Precise Pangolin) Daily Build]("http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/daily-live/current/") but I would like to run 11.10.

Use UCK to update the iso & run the one you modifiy.

---

### Post by brianafischer on 2011-11-08
> **ajgreeny said:**
> If you use the startup-disk-creator to make the USB, you can make sure there is a persistent reserved space.

This will allow you to add extra packages, though I am not absolutely sure about updates to the casper file system in the live session itself.

I have tried this before but the /home partition is the only thing was maintained.  It appears that some improvements may have been made:

From [http://www.pendrivelinux.com/what-is-persistent-linux/]("http://www.pendrivelinux.com/what-is-persistent-linux/")
> *System and initrd updates appear to be working on recent Ubuntu and Ubuntu based remixes.

I would really like to do is run a multi-boot USB thumb drive that has a mix of "persistent" and Live CDs.  I would like to have Ubuntu run in RAM (or optimal for a USB drive), but save all changes and apply system updates.  I would like to have run-once ISOs like Clonezilla and System Rescue CD available at boot.

Has anyone accomplished this?  I see solutions for one or the other, but not both.

---

