---
title: "Screen Resolution problem in Hardy"
date: 2008-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ibs on 2008-06-01
I recently did a fresh upgrade to Ubuntu Hardy. Now I can't select my preferred resolution (1280x1024) in System-Preferences-Screen Resolution. The only options there are: 1280x800, 1280x768, 1024x768, 800x600 and 640x480. I have an Intel Graphics Media Accelerator 900 graphic controller and my monitor is a HP monitor, vs. 19.

Here is my /etc/X11/xorg.conf, but i't seems to be empty:

---------------------------------------------------------

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"is"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection


---------------------------------------------------------------

I have tried to run: sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg but it doesn't help. 

I am really tired of not being able to use the resolution i wan't, 1280x1024. Please help me.

---

### Post by didac on 2008-06-02
Try System => Administration => Screens and graphics and change your driver to Intel or to Vesa.

If it fails, try inserting:

[CODE]Driver "intel"[\CODE]

after Section "Device"

Also, check /etc/X11/ to see whether you have any old backup of xorg.conf you can use

---

### Post by ibs on 2008-06-03
Thanks for the reply but that did not work. 

There was not Screens And Graphics option in the menu and inserting that extra line didn't have any effect.

---

### Post by didac on 2008-06-04
Try:

```
sudo displayconfig-gtk
```

Your xorg.conf isn't loading any drivers. No backups left?

---

### Post by Lazywolf on 2008-06-05
> **didac said:**
> Try:

```
sudo displayconfig-gtk
```
Thanks! That helped me with my issue!

---

### Post by ibs on 2008-06-05
Thank you didac. Experimenting with sudo displayconfig-gtk did the trick.

---

