---
title: "12.10 64-bit - Nautilus spins and spins on Home, sometimes locks machine up"
date: 2013-03-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-24
I've been trying to diagnose this for the last day, and can't seem to figure out what is going on. When the machine first comes up everything is fine. After a period of time, when I go to open my home directory (i.e. /home/user), Nautilus just spins and spins. If I navigate away or click another directory it's fine. If I wait too long, the entire machine locks up. Nothing in syslog seems obvious, which implies that when it locks up the system isn't writing anything before I'm forced to power off.

Any ideas?

System hardware is a core i7 with 6 gigs of RAM, 128 gig SSD, wireless network adapter (works fine ever since i disabled ipv6). Attached externally is a 4 disk RAID array that automounts through /etc/fstab.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-24
Just happened again, and again SysLog just shows the gap - no obvious errors. Any ideas of even where to look would be appreciated. I'm suspecting network - but that's just a guess based on where I've seen other comments.

Also, any reason to think ringtail would be more stable at this point?

---

### Post by ManamiVixen on 2013-03-25
What do you have in the folder? Nautilus starts to choke if there are more than 1,500 files in a single folder. The limit isn't recursive so it's not total,  just per folder. For me at least that happens.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-25
At that level I just have the default folders, the usual hidden files, and the mount point for my Share. Well under 100 files. Again, it works just fine when it first comes up, it's only later (an hour or more) that "something" happens. Once that does if I can quickly close out, and remember not to open Nautilus using the default launcher, I seem to be fine. Although once it happens if I try to do ls -al in a terminal session for the home directory that will clock as well.

---

### Post by rnerwein on 2013-03-25
> **ewangr said:**
> I've been trying to diagnose this for the last day, and can't seem to figure out what is going on. When the machine first comes up everything is fine. After a period of time, when I go to open my home directory (i.e. /home/user), Nautilus just spins and spins. If I navigate away or click another directory it's fine. If I wait too long, the entire machine locks up. Nothing in syslog seems obvious, which implies that when it locks up the system isn't writing anything before I'm forced to power off.

Any ideas?

System hardware is a core i7 with 6 gigs of RAM, 128 gig SSD, wireless network adapter (works fine ever since i disabled ipv6). Attached externally is a 4 disk RAID array that automounts through /etc/fstab.

Thanks in advance.
hi
my first question is: is the mountpoint of your RAID in your home ?
if nautilus spins then open a terminal.
follow these commands:
ps -ef | grep nautilus
sudo strace -p PID_OF_NAUTILUS  (to quit the trace hit Ctrl c)
in the trace you will see something like this: read(3, 0x7fff590ecef0, 16)  if you see always the same command in the trace then that is the point of loop !
where 3 is the file descriptor. then you can:
cd /proc/PID_OF_NAUTILUS/fd
ls -l      (you can see e.g. where the fs 3 points to - hope this give you a hint).
hope it helps you
ciao

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-25
I would remove the external array and see if that improves the behavior.  It could be an interaction between the external array and the system.  Also, check the condition of your power supply.  If the power supply drops out, your disk will slow down causing IOWaits, but not necessarily syslog entries.  Use *top* to see if IOWaits are greater than 10% when the system exhibits the spinning ball of death.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-25
> **rnerwein said:**
> hi
my first question is: is the mountpoint of your RAID in your home ?

The raid mountpoint is in /media/ewang, so while it could be an issue, I don't think that's it. The share drive (downstairs computer) is mounting on my home directory though, so perhaps that's an issue?

[QUOTE=rnerwein]
if nautilus spins then open a terminal.
follow these commands:
ps -ef | grep nautilus
[/QUOTE]
results:
ewang     1964  1845  0 18:20 pts/1    00:00:00 grep --color=auto nautilus
ewang     3420     1  0 Mar24 ?        00:00:53 nautilus

[QUOTE=rnerwein]
sudo strace -p PID_OF_NAUTILUS  (to quit the trace hit Ctrl c)
[/QUOTE]

results:
recvfrom(6, "U\2\304.\323?{\4\3\4\4\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\4\4\4\4\4\0\0\3\37%\2\0\0", 4096, 0, NULL, NULL) = 32
recvfrom(6, 0xd3a8b4, 4096, 0, 0, 0)    = -1 EAGAIN (Resource temporarily unavailable)
recvfrom(6, 0xd3a8b4, 4096, 0, 0, 0)    = -1 EAGAIN (Resource temporarily unavailable)
poll([{fd=5, events=POLLIN}, {fd=6, events=POLLIN}, {fd=13, events=0}, {fd=3, events=POLLIN}, {fd=12, events=POLLIN}, {fd=9, events=POLLIN}], 6, -1) = 1 ([{fd=6, revents=POLLIN}])
recvfrom(6, "U\2\304.\313B{\4\3\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\3\37%\3\0\0", 4096, 0, NULL, NULL) = 32
recvfrom(6, 0xd3a8b4, 4096, 0, 0, 0)    = -1 EAGAIN (Resource temporarily unavailable)
recvfrom(6, 0xd3a8b4, 4096, 0, 0, 0)    = -1 EAGAIN (Resource temporarily unavailable)
poll([{fd=5, events=POLLIN}, {fd=6, events=POLLIN}, {fd=13, events=0}, {fd=3, events=POLLIN}, {fd=12, events=POLLIN}, {fd=9, events=POLLIN}], 6, -1) = 1 ([{fd=6, revents=POLLIN}])
recvfrom(6, "U\2\304.\333F{\4\3\4\4\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\0\4\4\4\4\4\0\0\3\37%\2\0\0", 4096, 0, NULL, NULL) = 32
recvfrom(6, 0xd3a8b4, 4096, 0, 0, 0)    = -1 EAGAIN (Resource temporarily unavailable)
recvfrom(6, 0xd3a8b4, 4096, 0, 0, 0)    = -1 EAGAIN (Resource temporarily unavailable)
poll([{fd=5, events=POLLIN}, {fd=6, events=POLLIN}, {fd=13, events=0}, {fd=3, events=POLLIN}, {fd=12, events=POLLIN}, {fd=9, events=POLLIN}], 6, -1^C <unfinished ...>


[QUOTE=rnerwein]
in the trace you will see something like this: read(3, 0x7fff590ecef0, 16)  if you see always the same command in the trace then that is the point of loop !
where 3 is the file descriptor. then you can:
cd /proc/PID_OF_NAUTILUS/fd
ls -l      (you can see e.g. where the fs 3 points to - hope this give you a hint).
[/QUOTE]

results:
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 0 -> /dev/null
l-wx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 1 -> /dev/null
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 10 -> anon_inode:[eventfd]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 11 -> anon_inode:[eventfd]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 12 -> socket:[20764]
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:38 13 -> /proc/3420/mounts
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:38 14 -> /home/ewang/.local/share/gvfs-metadata/home
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 15 -> /home/ewang/.local/share/gvfs-metadata/home-581d3f80.log
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 16 -> socket:[17878]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 17 -> anon_inode:[eventfd]
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 18 -> /proc/3420/mountinfo
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 19 -> socket:[16834]
l-wx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 2 -> /home/ewang/.xsession-errors
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 20 -> /home/ewang/.local/share/gvfs-metadata/root
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 21 -> anon_inode:[eventfd]
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 22 -> /home/ewang/.local/share/gvfs-metadata/root-801fc16b.log
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 23 -> /home/ewang/.local/share/gvfs-metadata/uuid-c0e21aeb-28b1-4b28-9bff-071e78a2f6c4.AW14TW (deleted)
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 24 -> /home/ewang/.local/share/gvfs-metadata/uuid-c0e21aeb-28b1-4b28-9bff-071e78a2f6c4-ee59ee3f.log (deleted)
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 25 -> socket:[14075]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 26 -> anon_inode:[eventfd]
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 27 -> /home/ewang
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 3 -> socket:[14071]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 4 -> anon_inode:[eventfd]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 5 -> anon_inode:[eventfd]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 6 -> socket:[14072]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 7 -> socket:[16324]
lrwx------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 8 -> anon_inode:[eventfd]
lr-x------ 1 ewang ewang 64 Mar 24 21:34 9 -> anon_inode:inotify

Let me know if any of the above points to something obvious.

Thanks!

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-25
Was there anything helpful in these logs?

 /home/ewang/.local/share/gvfs-metadata/home-581d3f80.log
 /home/ewang/.local/share/gvfs-metadata/uuid-c0e21aeb-28b1-4b28-9bff-071e78a2f6c4-ee59ee3f.log (deleted)

It's possible that if you have a slammed network (i.e. Neflix streaming) then your network share could be causing the hang up.  Try removing the share for a couple of days and see the behavior changes.

---

### Post by Singtoh on 2013-03-25
hello ewangr,

I am using ubuntu 12.10 64 with gnome shell. I am just making an observation here but the same thing happens on my machine. The way I stop this from happening is go to advanced settings(gnome-tweak-tool) Desktop, and in that menu toggle off "Have file manager handle the desktop" and the spinning cursor dissapears and everything is normal again. I just turn it back on when I want to change wallpaper then turn it off again. Maybe your problem is related to the file manager handling the desktop??? Not sure, just thought I would put in my two cents worth and maybe it will help??

Cheers,

Singtoh

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-25
I have moved the network share to now mount under the /media folder. Figure if that is the problem, then at least I won't see the clocking in the home folder. Will see how it goes.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-26
As expected, since I moved the share to mount under /media, the home directory does not lock up at all. But when the share stops responding the machine locks up tight as a drum. I'm rather disappointed by that as one of the strengths of Linux/Unix was you could do bad things, and the parts that were still working would continue chugging along. So having a network share drop off and locking the machine seems like there's something wrong somewhere.

I am mounting the share using /etc/fstab to attach. The share is on a Windows box that has a fixed IP, so it's not like it is disappearing.

In an earlier message there was this suggestion:
> 
I am using ubuntu 12.10 64 with gnome shell. I am just making an observation here but the same thing happens on my machine. The way I stop this from happening is go to advanced settings(gnome-tweak-tool) Desktop, and in that menu toggle off "Have file manager handle the desktop"


If I find the tweak tool (apt get?) and do this, will DASH and the other features still work?

Thanks!

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-26
OK, found the tweak tool, installed, and made the suggested change. 2 hours later, same lock up.

Is there any key combination that should still work when the machine is in a busy loop just as a consideration for trying to get ANY info out of this?

Guess it's about time to find the windows install disk :-(

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-27
Anyone? Or is this just a lost cause?

---

### Post by Singtoh on 2013-03-27
Hello ewangr,

yes everything will still work the same, at least it does for me. Sorry that little tidbit isn't working for you. I really don't have any other 2 cents to throw in, sorry again. Hopefully someone will chime in and try to help you solve this problem. It would take a major catastrophe for me to move back to Micro-Fascist Windoze. Never going back to that. Sorry I can't be of more help to you.

Cheers,

Singtoh

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-27
Post your fstab.  Perhaps there is a mounting switch to reduce the ping-of-death.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-27
fsatb below:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
# Use 'blkid' to print the universally unique identifier for a
# device; this may be used with UUID= as a more robust way to name devices
# that works even if disks are added and removed. See fstab(5).
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>
# / was on /dev/sda1 during installation
UUID=4af389ad-ffc9-4764-bec9-4114250d1a9d /               ext4    errors=remount-ro 0       1
# swap was on /dev/sda5 during installation
UUID=af1e8d7c-8ac9-435b-8771-327d93635e53 none            swap    sw              0       0

//192.168.10.155/X /media/ewang/XShare cifs username=me,password=password,uid=1000 0 0

/dev/md0 /media/ewang/ERG12TB ext4 rw 0 0


Share is the line with the ip address in it.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-28
Anyone? Hello?

---

### Post by tgalati4 on 2013-03-29
Try adding *noatime* to the end of the UUID option:

//192.168.10.155/X /media/ewang/XShare cifs username=me,password=password,uid=1000,noatime 0 0

Then reboot and see if the behavior changes.

There are a lot of things that can cause network share slowness.  You might need to become an expert on cifs to troubleshoot this issue.  Because Windows is serving the files, and I don't use Windows, others will have to suggest troubleshooting from the Windows side.

There are a lot of switches that control CIFS mounting behavior:

```
sudo apt-get install cifs-utils
man mount.cifs
```

Proceed carefully, and make note of what switches you have tried and what the behavior is.

Also, check the cabling to and from the Windows machine.  It's possible that it is a simple network connectivity issue.  If it's a wireless connection, then you might have interference issues.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-29
Will try the noatime option, but I'm not very confident that is the issue.

As far as the cabling and all that, not sure if I made it clear that the share works flawlessly for the first couple of hours. So it's as if there is some timer on one end or the other that is doing something. Since I used to access the same disk attached to that same computer over the same network when the box I am currently using was running Windows, I think it's fair to suspect Ubuntu or the version of Samba that Ubuntu points to as an issue.

---

### Post by ewangr on 2013-03-29
Adding noatime causes cifs to bomb and then will not mount the drive. So I think that option is out. Oh well...

---

