---
title: "11.10 Remove pulseaudio removes ubuntu-desktop"
date: 2011-11-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sarloth on 2011-11-15
I was experiencing several issues with WINE sound. Including error messages regarding buffer underruns and too many channels. Running the command below safely removed pulseaudio from my system and remedied these issues bringing sound to my WINE games.

A brief warning: Removing pulseaudio may cause old hardware to only play sound from one application at a time!

Original post:

> When trying to remove pulseaudio, apt-get is trying to remove ubuntu-desktop as well. Is there some way to exclude this and continue with the removal?

```
sarloth@jupiter:~$ sudo apt-get remove pulseaudio
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
The following package was automatically installed and is no longer required:
  libtelepathy-farstream0
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  indicator-sound libcanberra-pulse pulseaudio pulseaudio-esound-compat
  pulseaudio-module-bluetooth pulseaudio-module-gconf pulseaudio-module-x11
  ubuntu-desktop
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 8 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
After this operation, 4,641 kB disk space will be freed.
Do you want to continue [Y/n]? 

```

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2011-11-15
1. ubuntu-desktop is just a metapackage. It can be removed safely.

2. If you remove Pulseaudio, you'll probably lose most of your computer's sound capability (as you'd expect when removing half of your sound system). Is this really what you want? If you're following old advice... don't follow old advice.

---

### Post by sarloth on 2011-11-15
Thanks, I remembered shortly after posting this that ubuntu-desktop is a metapackage and would be removed with any package it contains due to the fact that nothing depends on it.

Also, your post is a little inaccurate. Pulseaudio isn't part of the sound system at all. It is a supplement to your standard ALSA sound system which helps old hardware which is incapable of running multiple audio channels simultaneously. Since my machine is relatively new and has a modern sound board, this is unnecessary.

Though I typically don't fix what isn't broken, in this case pulseaudio was not playing nicely with wine. I removed it and the hardware is now handling all of the audio channels on its own, including wine.

Thanks again for the response!

---

