---
title: "10.04 udev error message and kernel panic"
date: 2010-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mattgyver83 on 2010-04-30
After [solving a separate filesystem issue]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1466570") I yet again face another problem.  On a cold-start of the PC I often recieve one of the two errors.  Both of these occur right before grub2 shows the gdm.  These results are based on 10 cold-starts;

A vast majority of the startup's, about 4 of 10 starts show the following error message for a minute and then load the gdm normally;

> udev_work[XXX] open /dev/null failed: no such file or directory
On the last startup attempt i received two instances of that message.

In one instance I recieved a Kernel Panic hanging the machine; 

> Run_Init: nuking initramfs contents: Directory not empty
[  3.230737]  Kernel Panic - not synching : attempted to kill init!

This is a bit over my head and any assistance pointing me in the right direction toward a resolution would be helpful.

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-04-30
Udev needs /dev/null to be present to mount and boot your system. 

You should run the following command:
```
sudo update-initramfs
```

"man update-initramfs" for more info.

If you cannot get shell access you will need to chroot in from the live cd (see link in my sig).

You may also want to purge and reinstall a functional kernel and watch for any errors during initramfs creation.

---

### Post by mattgyver83 on 2010-04-30
nanog,

Thanks for the reply, I went ahead and attempted update-initramfs as you suggested.  First I just tried to update the existing and that still left me with the same results, so I then created a new with the -c switch but still no such luck.

---

### Post by mseewald on 2010-04-30
> **mattgyver83 said:**
> nanog,

Thanks for the reply, I went ahead and attempted update-initramfs as you suggested.  First I just tried to update the existing and that still left me with the same results, so I then created a new with the -c switch but still no such luck.

Please give this a try:

sudo update-initramfs -c -k all

---

### Post by mattgyver83 on 2010-04-30
mseewald,

Sadly it looks like that didnt fix it either.  Just a side-note; I am able to use the machine and get into gnome and I dont seem to have any adverse effects caused by this error.  I also only get this error from a cold start, I can reboot all night and day and not recieve this message and I have only seen the kernel panic one one occasion this morning.

Is this starting to sound more like a bug that should be filed?  Unless anyone else has any suggestions that might just be my next step.

Thanks for the help from upstairs :)

---

### Post by mseewald on 2010-04-30
Hm, the command above fixed it for me. I hoped it worked for you as well.
:(

---

### Post by nanog on 2010-04-30
yeah that is really weird. please file a bug.

---

### Post by Converted001 on 2010-05-01
Having the same issue after upgrading from 9.10 to 10.04. Tried the solution above (mseewald), but randomly it keeps
giving me the error. Also when restarting the Ubuntu laptop.

A kernel panic didn't had it, fingered crossed... But my laptop keeps functioning fine, except from the bit longer startuptimes.

New at Ubuntu, so how do i supply this as a bug?

Thx everyone!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-01
sometimes ago i've found two nice tools hidden into repo:

fighting with broken symlinks and other oldish settings left behind and dropping mess, now i regularly use:

- gconf-cleaner: always remove everything proposed
- bleachbit: take time to set preferences correctly because its powerfull

but so nice results

sudo dpkg --configure -a  and sudo apt-get install -f  resolved most of the issues

---

### Post by dino99 on 2010-05-01
> **Converted001 said:**
> Having the same issue after upgrading from 9.10 to 10.04. Tried the solution above (mseewald), but randomly it keeps
giving me the error. Also when restarting the Ubuntu laptop.

A kernel panic didn't had it, fingered crossed... But my laptop keeps functioning fine, except from the bit longer startuptimes.

New at Ubuntu, so how do i supply this as a bug?

Thx everyone!

if you have to report a bug on Launchpad with ubuntu-bug package-name, you have to create your account first on launchpad

---

### Post by mattgyver83 on 2010-05-02
Converted001,

Wow, I am glad to see that at least someone else is affected by this.  I have yet to file a bug on this but I will do so now, I guess ill file it under grub2 however I am not sure that's truly where the error is occuring, just where its noticed.

---

### Post by mattgyver83 on 2010-05-02
I have filed a bug report on this error @ [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/573615](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/grub2/+bug/573615) for package: grub-common

---

### Post by mattgyver83 on 2010-05-06
Its been a few days but today my bug report was just updated to 'Affects initramfs-tools' as opposed to Grub2 also two other people have now stated that they are having or seeing similar issues.

Just wanted to basically bump this conversation and see if anyone had any further suggestions.

---

### Post by wewa on 2010-12-06
Hi,

I seem to have this problem as well.

Setting up a Dell Studio 1440 (14z) for a friend with 10.04 wubi and all was well until I said ok to Update Manager. Always seems to be a bad idea on the multitude of machines I put Ubuntu on.

This thread seems to be the closest to my issue, but there are so many that come up in google because the verbage of the error is so long, that its hard to nail down what is relevant:

> run-init: nuking initramfs contents: Directory not empty
udevd-work[90]: inotify_add_watch(6, /dev/loop0, 10) failed: No such file or directory[    2.563708] Kernel panic - not syncing: Attempted to kill init!

Cold or warm boot, still happens. Have to just power off and on and then voila, it boots fine. :frown:

Hope there's a fix by now.

Thanks.

[edit]
Ah. Also, not sure if related but I also get when I do eventually get booted past the kernel panic error above, I see
> Ubuntu is running in low-graphics mode
The following error was encountered. You may need to update your configuration to solve this.
(EE) Dec 06 09:41:10 NVIDIA(0): Failed to initialize the NVIDIA kernel module. Please see the system's kernel log for additional error messages and consult the NVIDIA README for details.
***ABORTING***
Screen(s) found, but none have a usable configuration.
[OK]

If I say OK and 'Run Ubuntu in low-graphics mode for just one session' and then reboot, I eventually will get it going again. At least until the next boot fail. :(

---

