---
title: "11.10 x86 very slow in VirtualBox"
date: 2012-02-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jingaling on 2012-02-13
Hi guys,

I have 11.10 running on my work laptop as a VM in Virtualbox (the host is Windows 7 Enterprise x64). The machine is a pretty good spec (Core i5, 4GB RAM) but the performance of the VM is awful. When navigating between screen, applications of even menu's the delay can be as much as 5-6 seconds. This doesn't sound like much but when it is on every mouse click it very frustrating.

The VM has pretty good specs. I've given it 2GB RAM and an 80GB Virtual HDD. I also have 16MB of memory for the graphics and 3D is enabled. I've also tried turning off 3D and booting into unity 2D but it's still the same.

The reason I'm posting here and not in the VBox forums is because I also have a Win XP VM and that's fine even though the specs I have given that are around half that of the 11.10 box.

I Ubuntu on all my boxes at home and I use Ubuntu One quite heavily so I really need this VM to work well (I've found Ubuntu One under windows to be horrific) and I can't dual boot as my laptop HDD is encrypted and it prevents dual booting.

Sorry for the long winded post guys, I wanted to give you as much info as possible in the first post. Thanks for your help in advance.

Jing (Kev).

---

### Post by howefield on 2012-02-13
Suppose you tried giving it more on the graphics memory ?

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2012-02-13
did you install the guest additions?

---

### Post by jingaling on 2012-02-13
Thanks for the quick replies guys.

Yeah I installed Guest additions. I haven't given it any more memory that 32MB for the graphics and 2GB for RAM. I've got machines that run it as the host that have less than that dedicated to it and it runs just fine. I'll give it a whirl though and post back. I won't up the RAM as I feel 2GB is more than enough really (plus I don't want to give the VM more RAM than the host).

Thanks

Kev.

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2012-02-13
try Unity2D or Gnome-Shell, Im not sure how well Unity3D runs with the VirtualBox guest additions drivers (Unity3D used to crawl in 11.10 with nVidia drivers)

---

### Post by jingaling on 2012-02-13
As I said in my original post, I have tried unity 2D and the problem still persisted. I've upped the video memory to 64MB but the poor performance is still an issue.

As an example, I've just tried typing ubuntuforums.org into chrome and the old URL wouldn't select and as I was typing I couldn't see the text being entered. All in all it took around 2 minutes to navigate to the webpage.

I don't want to use gnome-shell simply because I loath it. I'd rather use my Win XP VM than Ubuntu under gnome-shell.

Thanks,

Kev.

---

### Post by jingaling on 2012-02-13
I've been playing around with the settings and I now have the VM in a workable state. It's still slow but all the little nuances are gone. Just in case anyone else is having the same trouble, here is the spec of my VM:

11.10 32bit
80GB Virtual HDD set to swell as needed
2GB RAM
64MB Memory with 3D acceleration enabled
Login to Unity 2D (3D is still clunky in the VM)

I'm going to be upgrading the RAM on my host from 4GB to 6 or 8 over the next few weeks so I would be able to give the VM some more resources. This should be a good outline for those who fine themselves in the same position as myself though.

Kev

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2012-02-13
maybe disable 3d acceleration but keep 2d acceleration. thats how I have XP set up as I dont use it for any 3d apps

---

### Post by jingaling on 2012-02-13
Thanks guys,

Might disable 3D on the VM to see if that marks even more improvements.

Warii - Would be interesting to see what hardware you're running on the host machine as it may well be the host machine I'm running. I don't run Windows at home really so I can't re-make the issue at home to see what the issue is.

anyway, I have a working VM now so I'm a happy camper :)

Kev

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2012-02-13
i've installe Xubuntu on 8GB disk and dedicated 512 MB ram to it (host has XP with 2GB ram, athlon signle core 3.2Ghz or something like that, with 512MB ATI Radeon GPU). It was choppy with 16MB graphics, so i increased that to 128MB i think and now it runs just fine. i've also added guest additions so i can run it full screen at propper resolution. i run only web browser for the most part, but also tried a few music programmes.
 
i am thinking it would be better to install Lubuntu instead which i will probably do when 12.04 comes out.
 
if only i knew it before ti is so easy to set up a vbox maschine...., now i too wish i had more ram. :-O

---

### Post by waperboy on 2012-03-23
I run Ubuntu 10.04 natively on my box (core i7 2.4 Ghz with 24 gigs RAM), and 11.10 was very sluggish in Virtualbox 4.1.8. Moving a window was ridiculous: grab the window, drag it around, and it moved once every 1-2 seconds. Max display mem configured in VB, 3Gb RAM configured.

Off-topic rant...

I'm sticking to 10.04 at the moment, but once it gets too old (about now?), I'll consider switching to some other distro - anything Ubuntu after 10.04 doesn't take my fancy at all.

I've been a Linux-user since 1994, computer programmer as hobby since 1984 and as profession since 1997 - maybe I'm an old dog, but I don't like the workstation turning 'cellphone'-style with big icons and full-screen apps. That's for people who are not into computers, like the market Apple is targeting.

---

### Post by jingaling on 2012-03-24
> **waperboy said:**
> I run Ubuntu 10.04 natively on my box (core i7 2.4 Ghz with 24 gigs RAM), and 11.10 was very sluggish in Virtualbox 4.1.8. Moving a window was ridiculous: grab the window, drag it around, and it moved once every 1-2 seconds. Max display mem configured in VB, 3Gb RAM configured.

Off-topic rant...

I'm sticking to 10.04 at the moment, but once it gets too old (about now?), I'll consider switching to some other distro - anything Ubuntu after 10.04 doesn't take my fancy at all.

I've been a Linux-user since 1994, computer programmer as hobby since 1984 and as profession since 1997 - maybe I'm an old dog, but I don't like the workstation turning 'cellphone'-style with big icons and full-screen apps. That's for people who are not into computers, like the market Apple is targeting.

Hi Waperboy,

Looks like you had the same issue with me using 11.10 as a VM - clearly it's not a resource issue for you either so it looks as though 11.10 just doesn't like being a VM. Running Unity in 2D mode I found to be absolutely fine so it's probably something to do with Unity 3D.

You mentioned moving distro, take a look at the link below, Gnome classic is looking pretty good and should give you your beloved Gnome 2.x interface back :)

[http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/gnome-classic-in-ubuntu-12-04-its-like-nothing-ever-changed/](http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/2012/03/gnome-classic-in-ubuntu-12-04-its-like-nothing-ever-changed/)

At first I loathed Unity but now I've used it for a while I really like it...might be worth giving that a go for a couple of weeks just to see if you can get used to it. I still haven't touched Gnome 3 yet apart from 'playing' with it for a few minutes here and there, getting frustrated because I don't know where anything is and then logging out.

Kev

---

