---
title: "ATI display driver problems"
date: 2008-03-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kwalters on 2008-03-02
I have been having display problems ever since I upgraded from 7.04 to 7.10.

My PC has Celeron @ 3.33 GHz and an ATI Radeon Express 200 chipset and video driver.

Grub offers me two different kernels;

2.6.22.14
2.6.20.16

After much frustration I can get the older kernel to start Ubuntu all right using an ATI driver for Mach 8 et al.  HOwever, if I go for the other kernel I just get the black screen once the Ubuntu start up ribbon finishes.

I have tried using the dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg line in a terminal and managed to follow it through to the end (albeit guessing certain answers) But nothing improved. 

Not sure why I should get such entirely different results from 2 different kernels; everything else I have installed in one has appeared also in the other.

Do I perhaps have a corrupted kernel in one case?  If so, how would I reinstall it without losing every other setting?

At present, I have set the 2,6,20,16 kernel as the default for startup and everything seems to work fine.  But instinctively I feel I ought to make the later one work

Any ideas out there?

I will post below the /etc/x11/xorg.conf file that shows in this kernel version:

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"en"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RS400 [Radeon Xpress 200]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:5:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"17''"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RS400 [Radeon Xpress 200]"
	Monitor		"17''"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1280x960" "1152x864" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection


KW

---

### Post by Askalton on 2008-03-02
my suggestion. Look for an app called Envy. It installs ATI and nVidia drivers automatically and sets everything up for you. Worked with my nVidia card on my desktop

---

### Post by kwalters on 2008-03-03
many thanks, I will give it a try

KW

---

### Post by kwalters on 2008-03-04
I tried envy, but it has got me no further forward.

I still have a situation that I do not understand.

if I start the 20.16 kernel, the graphics are fine.  I use admin...>screens and graphics
The driver is selected to "ATI" which it claims to cover various ATI Mach variants.  The proprietary drivers are deselected and that gives me a perfect boot up with any resolution that my screen supports.  I used "plug and play " for the monitor

If I start the 22.14 kernel, it never starts in anything except what I assume to be the safe graphics mode.  A warning comes up saying running in low graphics and offering me the choices to configure, shut down, or continue.  Many variations of screen and driver have failed to improve the situation.  I have tried proprietary drivers enabled, the fglrx driver, the generic VESA driver and many more.  With or without proprietary drivers enabled, and with every variation of screen monitor and driver I an envisage, I am left with low resolution graphics and a warning on start up.

What I cannot understand is that this is all on the same machine with the same graphics card and the same monitor.  At one stage, my machinations with the newer kernel left the older one unusable also; but I have eventually got that back as it was and set as the grub default for bootup

Any further ideas out there?

KW

---

