---
title: "11.10 two battery icons?"
date: 2011-10-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ernestj on 2011-10-14
am I supposed to have two battery icons?

---

### Post by bailunrui on 2011-10-14
I have two battery icons, too. :(

---

### Post by harlequin_ on 2011-10-14
Well it's hard even to remove a single one, so good luck

> **bailunrui said:**
> I have two battery icons, too. :(

---

### Post by fritz269 on 2011-10-15
I did this and now I only have one icon

[http://askubuntu.com/questions/65751/how-do-i-remove-the-battery-icon-from-top-bar](http://askubuntu.com/questions/65751/how-do-i-remove-the-battery-icon-from-top-bar)

---

### Post by VigilanceOfFreedom on 2011-10-15
I have two battery icons and my desktop appears exactly as depicted in the screenshot above.  However the battery icon to the left does not produce a drop-down menu for me when I click it.  Only the left hand battery has the drop-down menu (with the estimated time left, preferences, etc).  

fritz269, did you have a drop-down menu for both battery icons before you removed yours?  I don't want to risk deleting the interactive battery icon lol.

---

### Post by Frogs Hair on 2011-10-15
The applet icon may remain visible until restart or logout / in . I remove the envelope( indicator-messages ) and it appears until next boot .

---

### Post by fritz269 on 2011-10-16
> **VigilanceOfFreedom said:**
> I have two battery icons and my desktop appears exactly as depicted in the screenshot above.  However the battery icon to the left does not produce a drop-down menu for me when I click it.  Only the left hand battery has the drop-down menu (with the estimated time left, preferences, etc).  

fritz269, did you have a drop-down menu for both battery icons before you removed yours?  I don't want to risk deleting the interactive battery icon lol.

Yes, I did remove the one with the drop down menu but you can access that menu if you go to the power settings in dash so im not to worried.

---

### Post by Rasa1111 on 2011-10-16
Same thing happened to my on my previous 11.10 install.
I think it happened after I used the command to "whitelist all apps",

anyway, thtat install got trashed, and I havent used the command on this install, and only have one battery icons now. lol

---

### Post by VigilanceOfFreedom on 2011-10-17
> **Rasa1111 said:**
> Same thing happened to my on my previous 11.10 install.
I think it happened after I used the command to "whitelist all apps",

anyway, thtat install got trashed, and I havent used the command on this install, and only have one battery icons now. lol

Lol!  I did the whitelist all apps too.. I'd rather not reinstall so I'll have two battery icons for now :p

Edit:
I ran the command: gsettings set com.canonical.Unity.Panel systray-whitelist "['']" remove the battery icon.  I guess we have to whitelist the apps we want to appear in the unity bar manually still.  I think this should be considered a bug since apps that require the system bar to operate shouldn't be "blacklisted" by default.

---

### Post by alexpotter on 2011-10-17
I have two icons - one 'charged' and one 'not present'

LOL I can't be bothered to change it so I'm leaving it as it is. It's not really getting in the way as such. :)

---

### Post by palimmo on 2011-10-18
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/oneiric/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/833397](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/oneiric/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/833397)

---

### Post by neiljansons on 2011-10-23
I have two battery icons as well after an upgrade from 10.04 on one laptop but not on the other.

Am I to presume that since this is a confirmed bug that some update in the future will fix it?

Surely there should be some simple way of deciding whether to display this or not (eg. like right-clicking)

---

### Post by guigouz on 2011-11-04
It's probably due to a previous edition of the systray-whitelist...

This worked for me : 

```
gsettings set com.canonical.Unity.Panel systray-whitelist "['']"
```

Hope it helps :)

---

### Post by prabhjot on 2011-11-06
You would need the whitelist 'all'. 
Actually this is a confirmed bug in ubuntu 11.10. Check it out here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/oneiric/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/833397]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/oneiric/+source/gnome-settings-daemon/+bug/833397")

---

