---
title: "s2ram / uswsusp as default in 10.04"
date: 2010-07-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by P4man on 2010-07-26
This must have been asked a 100x, but I cant find it.

I use "sudo s2ram -f"  after installing uswsusp to suspend my machine as the default way doesnt work with my motherboard. 

**How do i set s2ram as default**, so it suspends automatically after x minutes and when I select it from the indicator applet and when i push the sleep button ? now I can only use it by entering that command from a terminal which isnt too convenient.

thx.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-26
in terminal:
sudo cp /usr/lib/pm-utils/defaults /etc/pm/config.d/defaults
gksudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/defaults

look for " #SLEEP_MODULE="kernel" "
change to
SLEEP_MODULE="uswsusp"

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-07-26
No change. Suspending it still just triggers the screensaver.

BTW, the top of the file also reads

##########################################################
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!                                 #
#                                                        #
# Add files in /etc/pm/config.d/ instead!                #
##########################################################

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-26
> **P4man said:**
> No change. Suspending it still just triggers the screensaver.

BTW, the top of the file also reads

##########################################################
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE!                                 #
#                                                        #
# Add files in /etc/pm/config.d/ instead!                #
##########################################################


bummer, alright try this.

sudo rm -f /etc/pm/config.d/defaults
gksudo gedit /etc/pm/config.d/s2ram

put:
S2RAM_OPTS="-f"

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-07-27
Still no change Im afraid. I tried leaving that file and removing it; but it still just brings up the screensaver when i try to suspend :(

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-27
> **P4man said:**
> Still no change Im afraid. I tried leaving that file and removing it; but it still just brings up the screensaver when i try to suspend :(

your computer must be blacklisted.

for now you can add s2ram to the sudoers, so you don't have to use a password, then create your own launcher.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-07-27
I dont think its blacklisted, its called unknown:

```
sudo s2ram
[sudo] password for bob: 
Machine is unknown.
This machine can be identified by:
    sys_vendor   = "Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd."
    sys_product  = "965P-DS4"
    sys_version  = " "
    bios_version = "F12"
See http://suspend.sf.net/s2ram-support.html for details.

```

It works fine from the command line when I add the -f; I just wish I wouldnt have to use the cli for this.

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-27
> **P4man said:**
> I dont think its blacklisted, its called unknown:

```
sudo s2ram
[sudo] password for bob: 
Machine is unknown.
This machine can be identified by:
    sys_vendor   = "Gigabyte Technology Co., Ltd."
    sys_product  = "965P-DS4"
    sys_version  = " "
    bios_version = "F12"
See http://suspend.sf.net/s2ram-support.html for details.

```

It works fine from the command line when I add the -f; I just wish I wouldnt have to use the cli for this.

-f is force, unknown is pretty much like being blacklisted, thats why you have to force it.

like i said you can create a launcher so you don't have to use the cli.

in terminal:
sudo visudo

on the bottom put:
%admin ALL=NOPASSWD: /sbin/s2ram

press ctrl+x & y when your done

(you might want to check the location just to be sure, run "whereis s2ram")

you should now be able to create to create a launcher on your panel or desktop or menu, with the "sudo s2ram -f" command & not get asked for the password.

---

### Post by P4man on 2010-07-27
thanks for that. 
Its not an entirely satisfactory solution however; since the machine will now not go to sleep when its idle for x minutes etc;  so i am hoping someone still has a different idea?

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-07-27
maybe try replacing /usr/sbin/pm-suspend with a script that runs "s2ram -f"?

sudo mv /usr/sbin/pm-suspend /usr/sbin/pm-suspend-remove
gksudo gedit /usr/sbin/pm-suspend

```
#!/bin/bash
s2ram -f
```

sudo chmod +x /usr/sbin/pm-suspend

---

### Post by Nando777 on 2010-08-06
I will quote from another post, perhaps this helps for you, as it did for me having the same version as you:

---

First, install uswsusp. (sudo apt-get install uswsusp)
The version in Intrepid is pretty old, but it might work for you. It's been updated in Jaunty (I'm using the RC at the moment). Works fine for me in both.

After you install uswsusp, you need to tell Ubuntu to use it as the default hibernate mechanism. To do this, open /etc/pm/config.d/00sleep_module in your favorite text editor, uncomment the bottom line, and set it to uswsusp.

SLEEP_MODULE="uswsusp"

Now try hibernating and resuming and see if it is any faster for you!

---

In my case there was no such file in that folder, I just created it. 


Here is the source of the post:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1064894](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1064894)

---

### Post by kerry_s on 2010-08-06
you didn't read the previous posts, he has to use the force, cause his systems unknown, thus black listed.

---

### Post by ElrohirMacBeorn on 2010-09-03
Hi, I found a solution,
I put it here: [http://waplog.blogspot.com/2010/09/suspend-to-ram-disk-hibernate-auf-asus.html]("http://waplog.blogspot.com/2010/09/suspend-to-ram-disk-hibernate-auf-asus.html") but I'm afraid, it's partly in german.

---

### Post by DoneRightI.T. on 2011-07-30
The real problem here I feel is that if you do
```
s2ram
```

I am greeted with the following output
```

Machine is unknown.
    sys_vendor   = "Acer            "
    sys_product  = "TravelMate 8572G "
    sys_version  = "Not Applicable"
    bios_version = "V1.14  "
See http://suspend.sf.net/s2ram-support.html for details.

If you report a problem, please include the complete output above.

```

so in digging in a bit, the above package is a suse package intended to be cross compatible. I don't know a lot about it. However digging a bit indicates that the 'Unknown Machine' simply refers to the package installation; The version you have has a whitelist of compatible machines based on a DB of known hardware and configuration. You can if you want to submit your machine config to have it added to the whitelist for the next version released.

Somewhere within the 's2ram -f' command I assume it calls upon or rely upon s2disk. The reason for this is that upon running this command as root it produces the following results:
* The screen goes black
* The CapsLock key blinks
* The wifi goes off
The system itself is completely frozen and requires a reboot. Upon reboot
* The sound is muted
This is reported in a bug report and has been filed... with no resolve.

but I continued on in accordance with the guide and tried to run
```
s2disk
```
and lo and behold I received the exact same results as before; I am wondering if it isn't simply a problem with one of the systems being run that is relative to both.

I'm unsure how to proceed from here and would appreciate any help available please.

---

