---
title: "SSH not accepting password anymore"
date: 2013-02-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Krisando on 2013-02-05
I have a VPS and I was doing something totally unrelated with another user account. All of a sudden I couldn't connect anymore with a password, the web console still works but it generates a key.

When I connect with verbose it doesn't say anything about why, when connecting through putty is responds with "Access denied". I've compared the /etc/ssh/sshd_conf with the one used on a different server I have, they were identical.

There's no mention of what's wrong and I've searched the net, I have no idea why this suddenly just started happening. Perhaps I somehow generated a key? So a password alone isn't accepted.

I'm really lost, have no idea what to do.

If you need any info, I'll provide.
Thanks.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-02-05
Hi Krisando.

A few guesses:
[LIST]
[*]Do you have any IP banning tools that might've been trigger by the other user connection?
[*]It may be possible that you changed your Putty settings and trying to connect using a key. This [tutorial]("http://www.howtoforge.com/ssh_key_based_logins_putty_p3") describes which option is that.
[/LIST]
Just some thoughts. Let us know how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by Krisando on 2013-02-05
Thank you for your reply.

I don't believe I have any IP banning or anything of the sort set up. It's a fairly new server. There's also no rules in the disallow file, so that shouldn't be a problem either.

Keys have really confused me. When I generated a key from the servers end (or should it be client?) I get two files: "id_dsa" and "id_dsa.pub", when I tried to put "id_dsa.pub" in the puttygen, but it didn't seem to handle it.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-02-05
I see.

I would take a second look at how you created and copied the keys.

Keys generated by Putty do not work "as is" with OpenSSH. Take a look at this [video]("http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ioGYnsxzL94") tutorial to review the steps you took.

Regards.

---

### Post by Krisando on 2013-02-05
Okay, I followed the instructions exactly, even RSA and tried DSA.

It says "Server refused our key" :'( it's because I'm white isn't it.

---

### Post by papibe on 2013-02-08
By any chance your VPS home is encrypted?

Regards.

---

