---
title: "9.04 Audio Problems - Programs Steal Ability to Play Audio"
date: 2009-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by brandoncolorado on 2009-04-24
I am using 9.04 UNR.  I have an HP 1000 mini laptop.  I had no sound until I followed the instructions here:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/netbook-remix/+bug/318942/comments/44](https://bugs.launchpad.net/netbook-remix/+bug/318942/comments/44)

That worked and now I have sound from my speakers.  I used to only have sound from my headphones.  Now I am having a strange problem that I can't figure out.

1)  When I restart my computer the speaker volume is always muted.  I can adjust this and then hear sound from the speakers.

2)  If I start Firefox first and watch a flash site (like youtube or hulu), I can hear sound from the speakers.  However, I can't play rhythmbox at the same time.  Even when the volume is cranked up in Rhythmbox, no sound is outputted.  When I quit firefox, it hangs and I have to quit it from system monitor.

3)  After restart, if I start Rhythmbox first, I can play sound from there, but I can't play sound in Firefox after that.  No matter how many times I open/close Firefox no sound will play until a restart.

It is almost as if one program steals the ability to play sound from the other.

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  I am attaching screenshots of my settings so you can see what is happening.

Thanks UF

---

### Post by brandoncolorado on 2009-04-26
bump

---

### Post by carleton on 2009-07-21
ditto

---

### Post by jocko on 2009-07-21
Make sure all your sound apps use pulseaudio instead of having direct access to alsa.
Alsa doesn't play sound from more than one source at the time, as long as you don't set up a software mixer (like pulseaudio) that mixes the sound streams before they are presented to alsa.
check the settings in:
```
gstreamer-properties
```
and:
```
gnome-sound-preferences
```

---

