---
title: "11.10 will not boot into gui"
date: 2012-02-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by lintoon on 2012-02-13
I have PC running 11.10 which will not boot.

POST shows ok, GRUB appears ok then Ubuntu starts to boot but does not complete.  After a short while the screen goes blank.  ctrl-Function key to get to terminal doesn't work.  The system appears "dead" but with power.

The system has been working ok for ages. A system update has perfromed recently.  In fact it may have been the last time the machine was on.

Kernel after the latest update is 3.0.0.15.  I have tried previous versions with no luck.  The earliest Kernel I can go to is 3.0.0.12 which gives a slightly different error.  The same but different :)  It goes to a black screen at a different stage but the end result is the same.  

I have not tried anything to recover the system.  I haven't tried a boot disc because it was late last night when I found this problem.

Can someone please give some pointers to troubleshoot this issue.  Anything.  Just a simple list of procedures would be great.  I can then google away.

Thank you.

---

### Post by mmsmc on 2012-02-13
To clarify, your computer turns on but does not boot? 
if so you will not be able to do it with out a live cd, and if that does not work try booting another simple os like pup nix* to see if that works
if not im thinking it may be a grub problem

---

### Post by lintoon on 2012-02-13
Thanks for your reply.  I'm busy creating a new boot disc as we speak.

I'm not sure whether it's grub related or not.  I get the grub selection list, it continues for a few seconds after that and then I lose video.  

It's the same with the previous kernel although it does seem to get a little further - eg just prior to the login screen appearing I usually get a screen of "corruption" for a second or 2 then everything appears.  It's always done this and worked fine.  kernel 3.0.0.12 gets this "corruption" then goes off.  3.0.0.15 doesn't get the "corrupted" screen.  It goes off well before that.

When I say "corrupted" it makes it sound really bad but it's not.  I can only describe it as a white(ish) screen with a few block outlines.  It seemed like it was the video driver sorting itself out.  

Hmm, maybe my video driver is corrupt after the recent update.  

How can I check this?? Is it simply a matter of reconfiguring xserver by running "sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg"

Can someone recommend some troubleshooting commands for recovery mode please or maybe point to a post which contains the relevant info.

Cheers.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-02-13
Have you tried nomodeset or other settings to get video to work?

What Video card do you have?

How to set NOMODESET and other kernel boot options in grub2 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1613132)
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions)
I had to do this with my Nvidia 9600GT:
To install Ubuntu, boot from the cd press any key at accessibility circle and keyboard, press F6 and then select the nomodeset option.
USB boot - At the menu press tab on the first option to edit the boot options and replaced the 'splash' option with 'nomodeset'. 
then
On first boot after install, press e on getting the GRUB bootloader. 
Hold shift from BIOS boot to get menu if only one system installed.
Using arrow keys navigate to and delete quiet and splash and type the word nomodeset in their place
Press Ctrl and X to boot (low graphics mode)

Natty or later Video issues. MAFoElffen
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1743535)

Resetting an out&#8208;of&#8208;range resolution (does not include grub's set gfxmode=640x480)
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#Resetting_an_out-of-range_resolution](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/X/Config/Resolution#Resetting_an_out-of-range_resolution)
Repair grub's video mode and other settings
[https://launchpad.net/grub-customizer](https://launchpad.net/grub-customizer)

---

### Post by lintoon on 2012-02-13
Thanks for your suggestion oldfred.  I'll try that later, when I get home from work.

I can't remember what my video card is.  It is a relatively old one.  An nVidia 128Mb thing if I remember correctly.  Geforce 5200 possibly.  It's been a couple of years since I checked it because everything has been working fine.

Cheers.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-02-13
Not sure but I think it will still suggest to install a nVidia driver. But for a card that old I think it is the older version.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BinaryDriverHowto/Nvidia)

nVidia Families [NVIDIA chip code names and their corresponding official GeForce number :
[http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/CodeNames#NV30](http://nouveau.freedesktop.org/wiki/CodeNames#NV30)

This note was posted somewhere:
> Please note: This NVIDIA Linux graphics driver release supports GeForce 6xxx and newer NVIDIA GPUs, GeForce4 and older GPUs are supported through the 96.43.xx and 71.86.xx NVIDIA legacy graphics drivers. GeForce FX GPUs are supported through the 173.14.xx NVIDIA legacy graphics drivers.


---

### Post by lintoon on 2012-02-17
Well I eventually managed to have a look at this.  I didn't have internet access at the time so I reinstalled the OS alongside the faulty one, thus keeping my files etc.  The drive was automatically repartitioned and installed without issue.  The PC booted ok using kernel 3.0.0.12.

I then updated my system using update manager.  Low and behold I got the same problem after the update to kernel 3.0.0.16.  The system starts but loses video while booting.  I cannot access any other terminal screen via the f keys.  No response from my keyboard, eg no caps lock light etc.

I tried to boot a previous kernel (3.0.0.12) but I got the same error as previous.

I'm contemplating downgrading to 11.04 and just updating that as far as possible without going to 11.10.

What does anyone think.  Should I pursue the previous suggestions by oldfred or just downgrade and wait for 12.04 and hope it works then.  

Maybe I'm just being lazy lol.  In fact I will try the suggestions because I've got nothing to lose.  I'll post my results.  If anyone has any other suggestions I would be most grateful.

Thank you.

---

### Post by lintoon on 2012-02-27
Update:

I had 2 issues.  

CPU errors regarding overclocking and,
Original loss of video.  Blank screen during boot.

I cleaned my cpu and fan and added some new CPU compound.  This sorted my errors.

The loss of video was caused by the nvidia driver.  I have since reinstalled a number of times onto various hard drives (ide and sata) and confirmed it is definitely the nvidia drivers causing the issue.

I have reinstalled 11.10 and even updated it without loss of video.  I have not applied the nvidia drivers.  

This is fine for me because the system is just being used for music, youtube, and online tv.  No 3d needed.  Although I am a fiddler so I expect to break it again in pursuit of perfection :)

I am considering installing the drivers direct from the nvidia site. 

For the record I tried the 173 drivers which seemed to work for others.  Not for me.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2012-02-27
If you can boot to a command line.


#To see video:
sudo lshw | grep -A 11 display

---

### Post by lintoon on 2012-02-27
I could get to the recovery console and drop to root so I will try that when/if it fails again.

I was starting to think it was something as simple as the new driver was defaulting to the dvi port on my graphics card instead of the vga port.  I loked into changing it but i had to edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf but my xorg.conf contained very little (about 4 lines).  

It's working now with the default drivers though.  I'm not going to activate the nvidia ones.  

Cheers.

---

