---
title: "11.04: Filezilla keeps freezing!!"
date: 2011-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xalu on 2011-05-07
I just moved from windows to ubuntu because I am sick of  windows...but ubuntu is giving me some real annoying performance issues. Flash freezes constantly. I can't have my dual monitors without having the xserver crash and now I can't edit my web sites with filezilla freezing every 5 minutes.

Anyone know any way to get filezilla to work without freezing? I have all my customers saved in there so I can't move to another FTP service without going crazy.

I am running in classic mode on 11.04

---

### Post by xalu on 2011-05-14
Tried reinstalling..still same issue..anyone know any solutions?

---

### Post by imaginarythomas on 2011-05-18
I have this same problem. I removed the 11.04 scrollbars in favour of the classic scrollbars and it seems to be working fine:

```

sudo apt-get remove overlay-scrollbar liboverlay-scrollbar-0.1-0
sudo su
echo "export LIBOVERLAY_SCROLLBAR=0" > /etc/X11/Xsession.d/80overlayscrollbars

```

---

### Post by RudyLie on 2011-06-09
> **imaginarythomas said:**
> I have this same problem. I removed the 11.04 scrollbars in favour of the classic scrollbars and it seems to be working fine:

```

sudo apt-get remove overlay-scrollbar liboverlay-scrollbar-0.1-0
sudo su
echo "export LIBOVERLAY_SCROLLBAR=0" > /etc/X11/Xsession.d/80overlayscrollbars

```

Thanks, it's working.

---

### Post by FMaz008 on 2011-07-26
Hey thanks, it save alot of time to have a more reliable application :)
( Restarting FileZilla 10+ times a day was not a pleasant experience )

:popcorn: popcorn ?

---

### Post by xalu on 2011-07-29
Thanks so much. Missed your response, this is going to save me a few chunks of hair :)

---

### Post by WinRiddance on 2011-08-06
**Two questions about your solution ....**

1. Does this affect all scrollbars or just the ones for filezilla?
2. How do you get the removed scrollbars back, if you wanted them back?

Thanks.
.

---

### Post by jmp01 on 2011-08-16
:popcorn:
Worked as a charm...
Thanks!

---

