---
title: "11.04 constantly crashing."
date: 2011-04-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Citizen247 on 2011-04-30
I've managed to install the 32bit version on my laptop with little issue, and I'm really liking the Unity interface. There's a few issues around customisation and minor usability quirks, but from my experience with things like KDE4, I'm guessing it's only time. :)

Anyway, I've been having major problems getting the 64bit version running with my Desktop. I have 8Gb of RAM in that, so it's not really an option to use the 32bit version. The Installer crashes constantly, but I was able to upgrade from 10.10 using update manager, but unfortunately Natty is no more stable than it's installer. While logging in, or shortly after, the machine will crash to a text console displaying a Kernel Panic message. There's also messages indicating a problem with the CPU MCE. I've tried setting various kernel parameters at boot, such as nomce and nomodeset, these have extended the time the machine is up before crashing out, and removed the Kernel panic message, but not the crashes. I'm guessing the MCE messages were unrelated or a symptom in this case.

I've done a huge amount of searching, and found no suggestions that I haven't already tried. Running Ubuntu 10.10 64 bit the system is rock solid.

My hardware is currently a single quad core Intel Xeon on an Asus z7s-ws motherboard.

Thanks

---

### Post by Citizen247 on 2011-04-30
I've just tried the beta liveCD for Fedora 15, which uses the same kernel as Natty, and it's having the same problem, crashing out and restarting for no apparent reason, so I'm guessing this is likely an issue with the 2.6.38 Kernel.

---

