---
title: "9.10 Troubles"
date: 2009-10-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by srg86 on 2009-10-29
Hi

I've been using ubuntu as my main OS for the last year or so and this is the first version I've had trouble with since then. My system is currently:

Athlon 64 X2 4200+
nForce 4 chipset
nVidia 9600GT greaphics with two monitors connected VIA DVI
80GB SATA hard disk as /dev/sda
500GB SATA hard disk as /dev/sdb
usb keyboard and mouse

First when I boot the livecd as is, I don't get any screen or keyboard when gdm tries to start. After looking at this forum I disconnected the second monitor and it booted okay. Fine as I can just reconnect the second monitor after installing the nVidia proprietry drivers.

The second problem is even though both hard disks have an entry in the Places folder, I can mount them both (sda has ubuntu 9.04 and sdb has my files on it) and view the files, the installer only detects /dev/sdb, it's totally oblivious to /dev/sda, even after making sure they aren't mounted.

Seeing this and the other things on this forum I'm wondering if 9.10 is ready, or should I skip it and wait for 10.04.

oh and I'm using the 64-bit version.

Thanks
srg

---

### Post by P4man on 2009-10-30
> **srg86 said:**
> 

First when I boot the livecd as is, I don't get any screen or keyboard when gdm tries to start. After looking at this forum I disconnected the second monitor and it booted okay. Fine as I can just reconnect the second monitor after installing the nVidia proprietry drivers.


Please contribute a little bit to help fix such problems, like confirming this bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nv/+bug/447171](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nv/+bug/447171)
> 
The second problem is even though both hard disks have an entry in the Places folder, I can mount them both (sda has ubuntu 9.04 and sdb has my files on it) and view the files, the installer only detects /dev/sdb, it's totally oblivious to /dev/sda, even after making sure they aren't mounted.


Thats odd indeed. Can you post the output of 

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

Not sure if its related to your problem, but nforce4 chipsets are notorious for having having sata bugs (as well as plenty of others related to PCI and the onboard firewall). Though as I remember these sata related bugs resulted in data corruption, not just the drive being invisible. Still, see if you can find an update for your bios?

> 
Seeing this and the other things on this forum I'm wondering if 9.10 is ready, or should I skip it and wait for 10.04.

oh and I'm using the 64-bit version.


Well, there is no yes or no answer to this. Overall 9.10 seems to work well for the large majority, but it isnt bug free and neither will any other release ever be. Either way the best thing to do is further investigate and report your problems on launchpad. Dont forget linux / ubuntu is a community project it depends on the community. If you're like me and cant fix those errors yourself, at least you can report them.

---

### Post by blastbar on 2009-10-30
hi sorry i can't help you with your problem and don't mean to take over your thread or anything but i've still got no mouse pointer had to use 9.04 just pressing ctrl all the time kinda hoped 9.10 would fix this, still can't get it to work any help? please

---

### Post by srg86 on 2009-10-30
> **P4man said:**
> Please contribute a little bit to help fix such problems, like confirming this bug report:
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nv/+bug/447171](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/xserver-xorg-video-nv/+bug/447171)

Sure, though it does sound like it's pretty much covered now as it's switched to confirmed, if the more the merrier, then I will.


> **P4man said:**
> 
Thats odd indeed. Can you post the output of 

```
sudo fdisk -l
```

Not sure if its related to your problem, but nforce4 chipsets are notorious for having having sata bugs (as well as plenty of others related to PCI and the onboard firewall). Though as I remember these sata related bugs resulted in data corruption, not just the drive being invisible. Still, see if you can find an update for your bios?

I've just checked and this shows both my drives. I've also tried gparted and they both show up there as well. It's only the partitioner in the installer that doesn't detect it. I will try it with only one drive installed.

UPDATE: The installer doesn't detect the drive when it's on its own, I'll try it in another SATA port UPDATE No, it still won't detect the drive's existance.

I've never heard of these sorts of errors in nVidia chipsets, sounds more like a bug in the installer to me, I'll look for it on launchpad.


> **P4man said:**
> 
Well, there is no yes or no answer to this. Overall 9.10 seems to work well for the large majority, but it isnt bug free and neither will any other release ever be. Either way the best thing to do is further investigate and report your problems on launchpad. Dont forget linux / ubuntu is a community project it depends on the community. If you're like me and cant fix those errors yourself, at least you can report them.

Hopefully these are the only issues I'll run into. Is there likely to be an updated livecd, as I do use them for recovery etc.

Thanks

ANOTHER UPDATE: I'm also getting this as well: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/422536](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/linux/+bug/422536)

I'm going to stay on 9.04 for the time being and wait for 9.10 to become stable on my hardware. It's a shame as I have the AMD64 version working happily on an Atom 330 nettop, but not my main machine.

---

### Post by fragos on 2009-10-30
> **blastbar said:**
> hi sorry i can't help you with your problem and don't mean to take over your thread or anything but i've still got no mouse pointer had to use 9.04 just pressing ctrl all the time kinda hoped 9.10 would fix this, still can't get it to work any help? please

In the past that was enabled with a check box in mouse preferences. The parameter is still there but when I click to set it the check mark appears for a fraction of a second and the check box remains unchecked.

---

### Post by rosswmcgee on 2009-11-01
Do you know if this bug will happen in a clean install? Or is it confined to the upgrade?

---

### Post by fragos on 2009-11-01
> **rosswmcgee said:**
> Do you know if this bug will happen in a clean install? Or is it confined to the upgrade?

I did an upgrade so I don't know if that caused the bug and clean install will fix it.

---

