---
title: "Screen res keeps going to 800x600"
date: 2012-04-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alpwazungy on 2012-04-22
Good day,

I had a problem a while ago getting the screen resolution to where I like it. I had to manually install the nvidia driver. Ubuntu would not allow me to go (absolutely no option for) over 800x600 if I remember correctly, possibly lower.
I have a nvidia gtx 550 ti graphic card. 
On my other computer, with a nvidia 6600 gt I have had no problems what so ever with 10.04 and the display. I do not know why.

My problem.... I am able to boot into x.  it always comes up 800x600 and "auto" for the refresh rate.  I have to go into System/preferences/nvidia x server settings and change the res to 1024x768 85 hz. 
A few times I went in as root (sudo nvidia-settings) and changed the settings to 1024x768 85 hz. I saved the new settings several times as root to xorg.conf (either merge checked or not checked) but every time, if I log out or shut down then log back in again, it is back to 800x600 and "auto" in the nvidia-settings.

I tried to edit the xorg.conf file and removed all but the first resolution from " Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0""  
shortening it to  Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0  
but that did not work either. So I changed it back.

What do I have to do to get this fixed? 

I am a step or two up from complete noob.

I have attached my xorg.conf....
Thanks.

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 295.33  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-08.nvidia.com)  Sat Mar 17 15:58:15 PDT 2012


Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "ViewSonic A71f+"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 72.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 160.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce GTX 550 Ti"
EndSection

Section "Screen"

# Removed Option "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
# Removed Option "metamodes" "1024x768 +0+0; 1024x768_85 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-1"
    Option         "metamodes" "1024x768_85 +0+0; 1024x768 +0+0; nvidia-auto-select +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

