---
title: "GDM and Gnome Panel at wrong resolution"
date: 2008-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dav9000 on 2008-07-16
Hi, I've been looking for a solution to this, but I  have had no luck. I own a new laptop with a Core2duo, 965GM Intel. An image is worth a million words, so please take a look at the screenshot. As you can see, the desktop resolution is ok at its native 1280x800 pixels, but the gnome-panel acts as if the resolution was 1024x768. So does GDM login, notification popups and so. Avant-window-navigator sets itself in the middle as if in a 1024x768 monitor. This is my xorg.conf:

[COLOR="DarkRed"]# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"es"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
[/COLOR]
I tried doing 'sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg' to no avail (in fact, no questions were made to me regarding my video configuration, just the keyboard). I also tried adding a 'Display' subsection under 'Screen' with several options as suggested in other threads, but nothing worked. I always had to go back to my backup of my xorg.conf.

It's funny that 'gnome-display-properties' detects 2 monitors:
- 'Unkown' at 1024x768 at 30hz
- 'Laptop 12"' at 1280x800 at 60hz

Is this normal, or is this the source of the problem? How can I remove this 'Unkown' monitor? Where are the Device, Screen and Monitor settings stored? I remember a much more complicated xorg.conf file in former versions of Ubuntu.

I would be very grateful if someone would help me.

Regards,
David

I luckily came across the solution. Under Screen resolution in System menu, you will see two monitors. Choose the one not matching your native resolution, and turn it off under "Resolution". This way your desktop will stay at its native resolution, but not GDM. It is a minor flaw I can live with.

---

