---
title: "Screen resolution problems with Syncmaster 932bw monitor"
date: 2008-11-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Page on 2008-11-01
Hello everyone.

I have a Samsung Syncmaster 932bw monitor and I've been having a terrible display problem with Gnome ever since I first installed 8.04 on this computer right after I bought it. 

When I try to use the native resolution of 1440x900 with GNOME, the monitor stretches everything vertically and some things at the bottom are cut off. For some reason, KDE3.5 isn't affected by this (I get full native resolution with no distortion), so I've been using KDE3.5 for awhile because of this. 

I was hoping the problem would be fixed in 8.10, but unfortunately this was not the case. I tried Kubuntu 8.10 a few minutes ago, and I'm having the same problem with KDE4.1. I had a similar experience with a late Ubuntu 8.10 beta and the RC.  B/c of this, I can't upgrade until this problem gets fixed. 

I've tried sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg, but this problem just makes things worse by extending the problem to KDE3 and the gdm login screen. Fortunately this backed up my old xorg so I was able to revert. 

I'm currently using the nvidia driver. 

Here's my active xorg:

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "mouse"
        Option          "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Configured Video Device"
        Driver          "nvidia"
        Option          "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        Defaultdepth    24
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
  screen "Default Screen"
EndSection
Section "Module"
        Load            "glx"
EndSection

---

### Post by singledot on 2010-07-03
Hi there,

Am having the exact same symptoms with my syncmaster and gnome. The display area is stretched beyond the monitor boundaries. Is there anything that I can do to fix this.

Any help is greatly appreciated.

---

