---
title: "Autommount FAT32 Partition"
date: 2009-05-23
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Altin on 2009-05-23
Hi

I use a FAT32 partition to share files between my NTFS & EXT3 partitions. I was trying today to get the FAT32 to automount at bootup by adding the line, 

"/dev/sda2 /media/fat32drive vfat user 0 0" 

to /etc/fstab. As I dual boot with WinXP I have my Thunderbird profile saved to this FAT32 partition, and I can now only access it by sudo'ing thunderbird in a terminal. Otherwise I get an error message saying
"Thunderbird is already running, but is not responding. To open a new window, you must first close the existing Thunderbird process, or restart your sytem." I suspect this is down to my automounting the partition at bootup, as when I had to manually mount it Thunderbird worked OK, but I would rather it to be automounted.

Otherwise I can read & write to the partition perfectly OK. Can anyone suggest where I might be going wrong? I have used ntfs-config to automount my NTFS partition at bootup.

Thanks

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2009-05-23
I think the line should be ```
/dev/sda2 /media/fat32drive vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0
```
You could link the profile on windows to the ubuntu OS, but I seem to remember that windows and linux arrange the files and folders in the profile differently, so that may be why the problem is occuring.

---

### Post by Altin on 2009-05-24
Hi

Tried that today but still get the same message. My fstab now reads:

# /etc/fstab: static file system information.
#
#  -- This file has been automaticly generated by ntfs-config -- 
#
# <file system> <mount point>   <type>  <options>       <dump>  <pass>

proc /proc proc defaults 0 0
# Entry for /dev/sda5 :
UUID=6b11397e-b1f5-495f-af97-cdec9a4cf9f7 / ext3 relatime,errors=remount-ro 0 1
# Entry for /dev/sda6 :
UUID=b92c0df0-d886-4475-aa70-2eefa0108720 /home ext3 relatime 0 2
# Entry for /dev/sda3 :
UUID=46f6fbc1-7d4b-4b55-bec6-1d09382565f4 none swap sw 0 0
/dev/scd0 /media/cdrom0 udf,iso9660 user,noauto,exec,utf8 0 0
/dev/sda1 /media/windows ntfs-3g defaults,locale=en_IE.UTF-8 0 0
/dev/sda2 /media/fat32drive vfat iocharset=utf8,umask=000 0 0

Have dual booted with the Thunderbird profile stored on the FAT partition for the last year and its always worked fine as regards sharing it with Windows. Problems have only started now when trying to automount. I can still open and access Thunderbird as normal when I type "sudo thunderbird" in a terminal, so its just not allowing me as a normal user.

What else can I try? Could ntfs-config have caused a problem/conflict of some sorts?

---

### Post by drs305 on 2009-05-24
You might gain some insight from the terminal. Unmount the fat32 partition and then remount through fstab's settings to see if any error messages are generated:
```

sudo umount /dev/sda2
sudo mount -a

```

Rereading your post: Regarding having to use sudo to start Tbird. When you use sudo, you are using a different configuration file (root's) than when you open it normally with your user settings. So it very well could be a configuration problem.
Try opening Thunderbird's profile manager and creating a new profile under your user. See if it opens correctly with a different profile.
```

thunderbird -profilemanager

```

---

### Post by Altin on 2009-05-25
Hi

Tried the first set of commands, to unmount /dev/sda2 and then mount it again and it worked. Can now open Thunderbird without having to 'sudo'. Had tried this before but I had been unmounting /media/fat32drive rather than /dev/sda2.

Thanks for the help

---

