---
title: "12.04 Facebook not working on Chrome or Firefox"
date: 2013-01-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by alenn on 2013-01-29
Hi all
I can't open Facebook on any browser using Ubuntu 12.04. Other sites are good, I have problems only with Facebook. I tried alternative browsers like Rekonq, SlimBoat etc, but no luck. On Windows everything works. 
Please help me.

---

### Post by omeomi on 2013-01-29
Which address do you use for facebook? Secure or unsecure (http or https)?

---

### Post by srekcahrai on 2013-01-29
Can you ping to facebook?
```

ping facebook.com

```

Try to ping facebook ip addresses too.

---

### Post by alenn on 2013-01-29
> **omeomi said:**
> Which address do you use for facebook? Secure or unsecure (http or https)?

I think it was http. I can't even get to the login screen.

---

### Post by alenn on 2013-01-29
> **srekcahrai said:**
> Can you ping to facebook?
```

ping facebook.com

```

Try to ping facebook ip addresses too.

I can ping it. 

PING facebook.com (173.252.110.27) 56(84) bytes of data.
64 bytes from edge-star-ecmp-13-frc1.facebook.com (173.252.110.27): icmp_req=1 ttl=236 time=144 ms

---

### Post by Gogsyd on 2013-01-29
What happens if you put the IP address in the Browser address bar instead?
I tried it here and I get a certificate warning but connected to FB okay

---

### Post by srekcahrai on 2013-01-29
Is your system time correct? Sometimes that causes problem.

---

### Post by surfmanjo on 2013-01-29
Hi allen,

I had some similar problem with Facebook on Firefox under Ubuntu 12.04. 
After some intensive googling, the solution consisted in decreasing the MTU parameter of my network interface (it was "eth1" in my case) from 1500 to 1464:  

sudo ifconfig eth1 mtu 1464

The right value of the MTU can be determined by pinging your router with increasing MTU's (I started at 1450 and found that 1464 was the highest value passing without error):

ping 192.168.10.1 -c 1 -s 1464 -M do

Hope it helps!

---

### Post by scbingham on 2013-01-31
I just had to reinstall 12.04 :( & had the same problem.

I went to java.com & did a download, seems to work now. :)

---

### Post by alenn on 2013-02-01
it seems that facebook was down in some countries, mine country was one of them. Now it's working :) thanks guys

---

