---
title: "11.04 Flash lags, no sound"
date: 2011-08-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by a1kuna on 2011-08-22
Hello! Thanks for taking the time to read this and I apologize if this is a repost-- I did try to find instances of the same issue before posting, but no luck.

I just did an install of Natty. Flash worked fine in the beginning, it was a bit laggy and flash websites looked kind of weird, but not enough to bother me. However now my flash is incredibly slow and laggy and it won't produce any sound. However, anything already saved to my harddrive and played on amarok, VLC, movieplayer, the sound works fine. 

I've also lost the ability to control sound through the main desktop toolbar-- I have to adjust sound individually on each of the programs. Adjusting the sound up or down or muting on the toolbar on my desktop (running ubuntu classic) provokes no change at all. 

I've checked alsamixer and whatnot to make sure nothing was muted and uninstalled/reinstalled flash just in case, but no luck. Any ideas?

Update: Now I've got the same problem with mplayer etc... drat. No sound, super laggy.

---

### Post by Rikeshar on 2011-08-22
I dont' know if this might help, but you can give it a try. I wasn't having a problem with flash not having sound, but I was having a problem with the flash on Hulu Desktop being laggy. What fixed it for me was, believe it or not, a Firefox extension (even though Hulu Desktop doesn't play in firefox!) What it does it gets the absolute latest version of flash for you, even more recent than in the repositories or from the website. The extension is called 
Flash-Aid and you can find it here: [https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/flash-aid/)

It worked wonders for me, maybe it'll help you!

---

### Post by a1kuna on 2011-08-22
Unfortunately that doesn't seem to make any difference... But thank you very much anyway, I appreciate it. :D

---

### Post by Rikeshar on 2011-08-23
Ah, sorry it didn't work! Hope you find your solution.

---

