---
title: "11.04 unresponsive"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Mashepherd on 2011-04-28
Just clean installed 11.04 and upon initial boot everything was fine although it did tell me that i couldn't run unity because i had insufficient hardware so i clicked OK and it booted into a typical gnome environment.

i then enabled the nvidia drivers that i had previously used and restarted, this presented me with a nice new unity desktop

The problem is that i cant do anything, it is completely unresponsive, no desktop right click, nothing happens when i click an icon, nothing!

I've no idea how to get into anything to have a look at settings or indeed how to revert back to a typical gnome desktop, oh the frustration!

---

### Post by dino99 on 2011-04-28
make a cold boot and select the "classic desktop" while logging into gdm

---

### Post by Mashepherd on 2011-04-28
Thanks for your quick response but when i initially installed 11.04 i selected auto-login so i don't see and login screen! oh dear!

---

### Post by Mashepherd on 2011-04-28
Solved, kinda of...

Couldn't really address the actual issue of why things were not working, but i booted into by usb 11.04 stick and gksudo nautilus'd my way into the etc/gdm/conf file and changed auto login to false

---

### Post by techunit on 2011-04-28
Oh ok you didn't need to that much work. You could simply have hit ctrl-alt-backspace to log-out.

---

### Post by Mashepherd on 2011-04-28
ha, cheers! i'll remember that.

Although i managed to get into my ubuntu it was through ubuntu classic (safe mode) and still cant click or do anything in a unity or gnome (non-safe mode). i'm now thinking its a nvidia driver issue but not too sure

---

### Post by Mashepherd on 2011-04-28
Right hopefully i have got this one sorted, i uninstalled nvidia-current driver and installed nvidia-173 driver. i therefore now have clickablilty and general use-ability although it is still saying that my driver is avtive but not in use

---

### Post by AllGamer on 2011-04-28
on one of my physical Xeon test workstations that was running 10.10, and successfully upgraded to 11.04 is hanging quite often doing simple stuff as changing desktop or running software center, basically every time there are many stuff open and multitasking

the only way to fix it is via Reboot, even a kill to the hung process doesn't seem to get it going again 

this is a quad core CPU with 4GB RAM & a nVidia video, so it's should be running like this.

it was silky smooth on 10.10

i think 11.04 needs some more optimization work.

---

### Post by vascofg on 2011-04-29
I can confirm this, and my gfx card is also an nvidia.
I removed the current driver from additional drivers and mannualy installed them from nvidia's website but it remains unresponsive, expecially if I open glxgears, I can't even see the gears moving.

---

