---
title: "Nvidia TV-OUT help needed"
date: 2010-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by StreetWise on 2010-07-16
NEWB ALERT NEWB ALERT. Right here goes.

I have Ubuntu 10.04LTS installed and want to get TV-OUT  working so I can watch movies and stream media from the internet to my TV.

The hardware I have installed is:

Nvidia GeForce2 mx400
TV is an old analogue CRT one

I know its an old graphics card and TV but the whole computer is put together from spares I have knocking around.

So I have Ubuntu installed and the Nvidia proprietary drivers installed, version 96. Through the nvidia-settings application I have managed to get a picture in colour onto my TV screen, but the problem is there is about a 2 inch black boarder around the screen and also like a grey shadow over the entire screen.
So I tried the NVTV application, the same thing happened again with the black boarders around the screen but the grey shadow over the entire screen had gone, so the black boarders are actually black and the colours show up properly.

So is there a way to get rid of the black boarders and grey shadow (if it decides to show up again), I am a total newb to Ubuntu but loving it so far and this is the only problem I am stump on so far.

This is my X Config FIle I have with all the settings I have to get to the above point:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Fri Apr  9 10:35:18 UTC 2010

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    Screen      1  "Screen1" RightOf "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "DELL E551"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 54.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 120.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor1"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "TV-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce2 MX/MX 400"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          0
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device1"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce2 MX/MX 400"
    BusID          "PCI:1:0:0"
    Screen          1
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1024x768 +0+0; CRT: 800x600 +0+0; CRT: 640x480 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen1"
    Device         "Device1"
    Monitor        "Monitor1"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "metamodes" "TV: 800x600 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection


So if anyone is willing to help me out on this matter it would be great but please remember I'm new to Ubuntu.
Also if any more information is needed from me please ask and I will try my best to get it to you.

---

### Post by StreetWise on 2010-07-17
up up up and away:@)

---

### Post by Rebootkid on 2011-01-30
Have you tried the advice listed in the thread at [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1504046](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1504046) ?

If you did, and that didn't work, do you get any specific errors when you try and switch to TV mode?

---

