---
title: "11.10 - cannot access Network Drives via WLAN (Samba)"
date: 2011-10-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thyriel on 2011-10-22
Hey,

i recently added a Laptop to my local network, but somehow i cannot access the Network Shares with it via WLAN.
In Thunar there is no network, and if i type in into its adress bar smb://10.0.0.15 (my samba pc) it also shows just a stop symbol

Ping does work, also i can access it via WLAN from my android Phone.
Id also installed Samba then on the laptop and changed the Workgroup to the same in case it has something to do with that, but doesnt help either.

Any ideas ?

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2011-10-22
Use Gigolo to connect to network shares in Xubuntu, and you may need to install gvfs-backends to get all the options in Gigolo

---

### Post by Morbius1 on 2011-10-22
> In Thunar there is no network, and if i type in into its adress bar  smb://10.0.0.15 (my samba pc) it also shows just a stop symbolWhen you say "there is not network" I assume you mean there is no "network" link on the side panel of Thunar.

You might be missing a package so install it:
```
sudo apt-get install gvfs-backends
```And then reboot.
[COLOR=Blue]EDIT: Sorry, didn't read to the end of the previous post ( I'm getting lazy ).[/COLOR]

---

### Post by thyriel on 2011-10-27
Sorry for late reply ;)

gvfs-backends was already installed.
To clearifly the problem, yes in the left pane of Thunar the "Network" is missing. If i connect a LAN Cable its there, and if i connect to the same Router via WLAN its gone.
Under Windows i would say the WLAN Connection has not enabled the Filesharing Protocol, but what could that be in Linux ?

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2011-10-29
Don't quite understand your last post ;)

Does it work with a wired connection (e.g. network icon, gigolo can connect to network shares) but not with a wireless connection, or neither.

Have you tried just connecting with gigolo?

---

