---
title: "editing GRUB"
date: 2006-05-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by big-hed on 2006-05-05
hi guys, writing this from my screwed up ubuntu pc, but luckily enough owl Windows is still working ok.

Well the problem! I decided to try out Fedora core 5 on some spare space i had on me disk last night only to my horror not realising to install bootloader to boot partition i created when i installed ubuntu, so i think its written to the MBR on the disk.  

The reason i think this is that the pc boots fine in FC5 and also into Windows XP which i added at time of install. I also had Windows 2003 Server installed alongside WinXP on another partition. I dont know for sure but im guessing it must have been first in the MBR, cause when i try to boot it now it says "x:\system root\.... ntos.krnl is missing please install a new copy of this file".  

The point is though i wanna get my Ubuntu Linux back as well. It doesnt boot either. i guess FC5 has overwritten something that loads it as well or else theres no reference to it

anybody fitta help me or come across this before?

So basically i have: boot partition, WINXP, Ubuntu, FC5 (where spare disk space was), Windows 2003 Server all in that respective order. 

It boots FC5 and Win XP fine but not the other two.

---

### Post by mcmillan on 2006-05-05
Could you post your grub menu which should be in /boot/grub/menu.lst when you boot into fedora. Also tell us what drives each os is installed on.

---

### Post by big-hed on 2006-05-06
[INDENT]# grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE:  You do not have a /boot partition.  This means that
#          all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
#          root (hd0,3)
#          kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/mapper/pdc_biccaibip4
#          initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/mapper/pdc_biccaibi
default=0
timeout=10
splashimage=(hd0,3)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu
title Fedora Core (2.6.15-1.2054_FC5)
	root (hd0,3)
	kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5 ro root=LABEL=/ rhgb quiet
	initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5.img
title Windows 2003 Server
	rootnoverify (hd0,8)
	chainloader +1
title Ubuntu Linux
	rootnoverify (hd0,6)
	chainloader +1
title Windows XP Professional
	rootnoverify (hd0,1)
	chainloader +1[/INDENT]

thats me current grub menu. I used a rescue disk i have last night to boot up the pc to show me all partitions. So its like this

partition 0,1 is boot partition which i was used to install grub on when i installed Ubuntu
partition 0,2 is Win XP
partition 0,3 is an extended or secondary partition
partition 0,4 is my Ubunutu system
partition 0,5 is for XP applications
partition 0,6 is used for data
partition 0.7 is where i have FC5 installed
partition 0,8 is SWAP
partition 0,9 is Windows 2003 Server

By the way, whats the chainloader and why does it always have that +1 after it???

---

### Post by mcmillan on 2006-05-06
Chain loader means it looks for a boot loader on that drive and uses that to boot. The +1 is a way of indicating where on the drive to look for the boot loader. 

Since you say you have a seperate boot partition, but based on the comments it looks like Fedora installed to the mbr and used the root for FC5 instead of your seperate boot partition. Assuming you want to keep the boot partion, you'll probably want to reinstall grub. I want to say you need to use the command grub-install hd0 but I'm not certain about that. Otherwise you'll probably need to edit some of the menu from fedora (might need to do that anyway if grub is detecting your drives weird). 

The first thing about you list of drives I notice is that you're starting on hd0,1, grub numbers from 0, so I think it should be hd0,0 and everything else should be lower by one as well. For ubuntu I think it should say root (hd0,0), though you don't need to chain load this, and can include a full entry like fedora's just with the different kernel information that should be on your boot partition. I don't see anything obvious with your other windows entry so I don't know about that.

---

### Post by big-hed on 2006-05-08
[B]"but based on the comments it looks like Fedora installed to the mbr and used the root for FC5 instead of your seperate boot partition"
[/B]

yea, i think so! sorry i dont understand "the root" for FC5 of your separate boot partition???

**The first thing about you list of drives I notice is that you're starting on hd0,1, grub numbers from 0, so I think it should be hd0,0 and everything else should be lower by one as well** 

Funny you should say that, i shouldve thought - i was using an NT offline Editing disk which shows all partitions (bit like Knoppix) and i suppose that why its showing the numbers all different. Linux shows it from 0,0 your right.

So if i re-install FC5 this time on the boot partition it should work ok.  Only thing im wondering is - will i have to do fixmbr on windows 2003 cause it doesnt pick it up currently as i think its been overwritten by the current FC5 setup. 

Also if Ubuntu is using say kernel 2.4.10 and i install FC5 (which has kernel 2.6.10 or something) does the ubuntu one use the newest version??

---

### Post by Herman on 2006-05-08
There's an easy way out of all these type of problems, it's called [GAG Boot Manager.]("http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p12.htm")
GAG boot manager will find Windows boot.ini and use NTLDR to boot Windows, and it will boot Linux if you have either GRUB in a /boot partition or Lilo installed in your Linux partition.   Installing Lilo does not erase GRUB, so I have both.
GAG is operating system independant so you can change operating systems all you want without losing your boot. It can also be installed to CD-ROM or floppy disk or your MBR, whichever you prefer. 

Another thing you can do if you have GRUB on your MBR  is try booting with GRUB from the command line. GRUB has commands you can run to find your linux kernels and boot whatever you have on your computer that are easy to learn once you experiment with them a little. That way you can use GRUB to find out what you need to know and then boot your system and use the same information (write it down) to reconfigure your /boot/grub/menu.lst file when you have it booted. [Here's a web-page]("http://users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm") about that and some other information on GRUB as well, I hope I'm being helpful, Regards, Herman :D

---

### Post by syg00 on 2006-05-08
Can't see how GAG would help - FC5 would have overwritten the MBR regardless. And eaten GAG as well - just like it did the previous occupant; Ubuntu's grub in this case. GAG is only useful if you install the Linux loader to a partition rather than the MBR IMHO offers nothing beyond what grub is capable of.

Seems to me FC5 has installed into /dev/hda4. Which means the OP doesn't have a Ubuntu system anymore.

---

### Post by stanz on 2006-05-08
would- venturing into the ubuntu reinstall/restore/rescue- part way. help here?
where grub would reconize whats on the disk and reinstall-once again..but in a productive way, with guided adjustments?

---

### Post by Herman on 2006-05-08
Originally posted by syg00:> IMHO offers nothing beyond what grub is capable of.Well you are correct, GRUB in the hands of a skiller GRUB user can do anything. I agree with you, I think GRUB is the greatest bootloader in the world!
GAG is a Boot (loader) Manager. No, it won't stop people from making mistakes, but it can make things easier afterwards. 
It can also be easier for people who like installing and deleting OS's often too, providing they install the bootloader to the OS partition or a boot partition.

Originally posted by myself:> GAG boot manager will find Windows boot.ini and use NTLDR to boot Windows, and it will boot Linux if you have either GRUB in a /boot partition or Lilo installed in your Linux partition....And from the information given (as I understand it or misunderstand it), GRUB was installed on a seperate boot partition. This seperate boot partition is the one that apparently FC5's subsequent GRUB install to MBR has missed, and failed to include in the FC5 menu.lst. The other 'missing OS's' are probably also booted via this boot partition.
Now can you see my logic? :D 

It has not been made clear what was on the MBR previously. Was Windows boot.ini and NTDLR involved? (If GRUB wasn't already on MBR?) It is unclear which partition has which partition number, there is some confusion and conflicting information here.:confused:

Someone skilled with GRUB or who is interested and has the time and patience to learn can to use GRUB to trouble-shoot and find out these things using GRUB's command line, and boot any operating system in the machine that's bootable, but GAG is an easier alternative.

Anyway, probably re-installing GRUB as mcmillan and stanz suggested will do the trick as well. (Hopefully). Here is the Official Ubuntu Wiki link for [re-installing GRUB]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows?highlight=%28MBR%29").

>  Seems to me FC5 has installed into /dev/hda4. Which means the OP doesn't have a Ubuntu system anymore.
Whether or not this is true should be ascertained for sure by searching for it either with GRUB (command Line) or GAG , (which bring us back to what I said in my original post), and/or by looking with some partitioning software or by typing a relevant command into a FC5 terminal. 
:D
Regards, Herman

---

### Post by big-hed on 2006-05-09
[QUOTE=Herman]GRUB was installed on a seperate boot partition. This seperate boot partition is the one that apparently FC5's subsequent GRUB install to MBR has missed, and failed to include in the FC5 menu.lst. The other 'missing OS's' are probably also booted via this boot partition.
Now can you see my logic? 
[/QUOTE]

Yes youve got it!

[QUOTE=Herman]It has not been made clear what was on the MBR previously. Was Windows boot.ini and NTDLR involved? (If GRUB wasn't already on MBR?) 
[/QUOTE] 

Yes, Windows XP was originally on there with Windows 2003 then being put on and then Ubuntu after that into boot partition, but it must have picked up the other OS's automatically from the MBR.

[QUOTE=Herman]Someone skilled with GRUB or who is interested and has the time and patience to learn can to use GRUB to trouble-shoot and find out these things using GRUB's command line, and boot any operating system in the machine that's bootable.
[/QUOTE]

I have tried using the FC5  DVD to go in under rescue mode and poke around but im not sure of commands to use to "find" or "search" for other OS's.

---

### Post by Herman on 2006-05-09
> I have tried using the FC5 DVD to go in under rescue mode and poke around but im not sure of commands to use to "find" or "search" for other OS's. That information is all in the links I provided earlier, but that's okay. I do admit it is quite a bit ot reading. Here's my grub link again just in case you missed it. [http://www.users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm]("http://www.users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p15.htm")
To use GRUB's command line, you boot up your computer to the GRUB menu and press 'c' for a command line.
At the command line you can type commands like these below:
```
grub> find /vmlinuz
``` That command should give you a list of whichever partitions contain a linux kernel for you to try to boot.

You can find out more information by trying out some of these commands: 
```
grub> cat /boot/grub/device.map
grub> cat /etc/fstab
grub> cat /boot/grub/menu.lst
``` Any of those can provide vital information too, about your partition numbers to use.

Then you pick one of those and type something like: ```
grub> root (hd0,1)
``` use any of the (hd0,X) type numbers the first command gave you as an answer.

The next command is:```
 grub> kernel /vmlinuz root=/dev/hda2
``` When you have the grub designation for the kernel's partition (like (hd0,1), you make the Linux name for it one number higher, like /dev/hda2. if the Grub partition number was (hd0,3), you'd make the 'dev' part  /dev/hda4

For the third command, it's hard to know exactly what to type. The filename has to be spelled right. So we use 'TAB completetion' to help us. To use 'Tab completion, you type the first few letters of the name of the initial ramdisk file and then press  your tab key and the filename will complete itself.
eg: you type 'initrd /boot/ini' after the 'grub>_ prompt', and then press 'TAB'. The result should be something like this:
```
grub> initrd /boot/initrd.img-2.6.12-9-386
```  If we didn't use the TAB completion feature for that command we wouldn't know all those numbers to put after the ramdisk name.

 The last command you need is this one:
```
grub> boot
``` and one of your operating systems should boot.
You might have to spend some time booting and rebooting until you find the right partition if it isn't obvious right away from the output of some of the earlier commands.

Windows is different to boot than Linux.
```
Grub> rootnoverify (hd0,0)
``` (If that's the partition number you hope the Windows system you want to boot is on)
```
grub> makeactive
``` ```
grub> chainloader +1
``` ```
grub> boot
``` After you do those commands, one of your Windows systems should boot.

slug did a great job of explaining to someone how to use GRUB's command line in [this thread here]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=158956&highlight=grub+command+line") if you'd like to look at it and see it explained a slightly different way, which might be helpful.

If you need more specific help, please post the output of the following two commands from a terminal (I don't know fedora commands these might work in fedora, but if you have a Ubuntu live CD, or maybe even Knoppix, they should work) ```
~$ sudo fdisk -l
``````
~$ cat /etc/fstab
``` All the best with it, Regards, Herman :D

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2006-05-09
Once you have booted into fedora you can mount your ubuntu partition with the  command line similar to this but with partitions changed to take account of your machine and a mount point which you will need to make in fedora yourself, ie make a folder in media and call it whatever you like (ubuntu seems right):-

mount /dev/hdb1       /media/mepis -t ext3

You will need to do this as root in fedora.

Once ubuntu is mounted you can look for the /boot/grub/menu.lst file in ubuntu and copy and add add the appropriate line that boots ubuntu, to your menu.lst or grub.conf or whatever the file is called in fedora.  The next time you boot using fedora's grub menu there should be an entry for ubuntu, and away you go.  I hope it works.  Good luck!

---

### Post by big-hed on 2006-05-10
i tried some of the commands that you guys suggested last night, but alas it didnt work. 

I even went as far as re-installing the bootloader from the FC5 disc but it came up with some message at the end saying that no changes needed to be made and hence i dont think it acutally installed a new bootloader at all, even though i specified it to be put on the boot partition this time and not on MBR as what started all this off.

---

### Post by Herman on 2006-05-10
Alright then, maybe it's time we checked that the partitions actually exist then and haven't been accidentally deleted or damaged in some way. 
As I read it your information provided so far I think you have the following partitions and operating systems.
Windows XP.....(hd0,1) ...............boots okay (MBR)
Ubuntu............(hd0,6).................................does not boot (boot partition lost ?)
Fedora Core 5 (hd0,3)................boots okay (MBR)
swap area.......(hd0,7)
Windows 2003.(hd0,8 ).................................does not boot (boot partition lost ?)

So the first question is, is there a boot partition and is it intact and healthy? Secondly, do you still have Ubuntu and 2003 and what is their problem.
I suspect the boot partition is missing.
If these partitions were bootable, you should have booted them by now. I'm pretty sure Ubuntu's kernel would have been in your boot partition, so if that's missing or damaged it's understandable why Ubuntu won't boot.
Windows 2003 should boot anyway. I have no experience with more than one Windows installed at once though, there might be some tricks about getting them to boot that I am not familiar with, like 'hiding' a partition using commands in the bootloader.
Please try these commands in Fedora Core or better still a Ubuntu Live CD ```
~$sudo fdisk -l
``` ```
~$ cat /etc/fstab
``` Please post the results (copy and paste them preferably) in your reply if you can.
Those should tell us what's going on with your partitions, in particular it's important to see the partition numbers like /dev/hda1..../dev/hda2.../dev/hda5...and so on, for example.

Another easy way to see your partitions and tell if they're healthy or not is to make yourself a [GParted LiveCD]("http://gparted.sourceforge.net/livecd.php") and run it and take a look.

Also have you tried [GAG Boot Manager]("http://www.users.bigpond.net.au/hermanzone/p12.htm") yet? GAG Boot Manager is a little easier to use and will often be a big help in getting things going again quickly, and also indicates the presence or otherwise of bootable partitions. Don't be scared to try it, you don't have to install it, it runs from a floppy disk or a CD, but you can install it if you like it. It should boot Windows 2003 for you at least. Maybe not Ubuntu, but it should at least show ithat it's there.
I love Grub, even I find it convenient to use GAG sometimes to get me out of certian situations.

Your boot partition can probably be replaced, and your Ubuntu kernel too, if they are missing or damaged. Regards, Herman :D

---

### Post by Herman on 2006-05-11
big-hed,
   I have been doing some more work on this from my end and I have found out that I can get Ubuntu to boot with a /boot directory with a minimum of two files in it. Just a kernel (vmlinuz), and a ramdisk image (initrd.img) are all that appear to be needed to boot Ubuntu. 
Both the kernel and initial ramdisk have numbers appended to their names.
These must match a directory in /lib/modules which has a similar number instead of a name. This number looks similar to a date with -386 after it. (Well mine are all '-386's anyway, maybe other computers will be different.) 

Can you mount your Ubuntu partition in Fedora as suggested by aygreeny in an earlier post?  If you can, browse Ubuntu and find out the numbers the directories you have in your /lib/modules directory in Ubuntu. Let me know what those are.  I can see if I have a kernel and initial ramdisk to match. If I do, I can upload to you. If I can't match them we may have to get them from someone else. 
Edit: It would be better from a security point of view for you to get your kernel from a 'trusted source', if you can somehow. Otherwise you might just have to re-install. It's up to you of course.
Then you can make your own directory, name it 'boot', copy those into it and copy it into Ubuntu. Then Ubuntu should be bootable from Fedora's grub.
You can then do as ajgreeny suggested and add Ubuntu's new kernel and initrd.img to your /boot/grub/menu.lst in Fedora.

There are also files called Sysmap, config, and abi in my /boot directories. Those all have numbers after their names matching the kernel as well. The system will boot up without those, but they must be there for some reason. We can find out about those later. Anyway, I'll bet they are renewed with each kernel update, so you'll get new ones sometime if we can't find you some right away. I don't know if it would be right to send those to you though, as they appear to me to have specific details in them for the machine they are in.  Maybe we can get those installed from synaptic or some other way.
 :D Regards, Herman

---

### Post by big-hed on 2006-05-31
Disk /dev/hda: 61.4 GB, 61492838400 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 7476 cylinders
Units = cylinders of 16065 * 512 = 8225280 bytes

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/hda1               1          13      104391   83  Linux
/dev/hda2   *          14        1020     8088696    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda3            1021        6502    44034165    f  W95 Ext'd (LBA)
/dev/hda4            6503        7476     7823655   83  Linux
/dev/hda5            1021        1912     7164958+   7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda6            1913        3825    15366141    7  HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda7            3826        5100    10241406   83  Linux
/dev/hda8            5101        5227     1020096   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/hda9            5228        6502    10241406    7  HPFS/NTFS


Here's the results of my "fdisk -l" from within FC 5.  When i try to mount any of the partitions including (hda1, 4 and 7) it comes up with 

mount /dev/hda1 /mnt/ubuntu
mount: /dev/hda1 is not a valid block device

get me round this one please guys?

---

### Post by Herman on 2006-06-09
big-hed, I have analysed your /etc/fstab, I hope I have done so accuratley. Please make adjustments if I'm wrong.
> Device     Boot   Start    End      Blocks      Id      System
/dev/hda1.............1.....13......104391......83......Linux......Ubuntu grub /boot partition?
/dev/hda2.....*......14...1020.....8088696.......7......HPFS/NTFS..Windows XP

/dev/hda3..........1021...6502....44034165...f.W95......Ext'd (LBA)(comprising the following logical partition hda5 to hda9 below).
/dev/hda5......... 1021.. 1912.... 7164958+..... 7......HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda6 .........1913 ..3825....15366141...... 7..... HPFS/NTFS
/dev/hda7......... 3826.. 5100... 10241406..... 83..... Linux.......Ubuntu (doesn't boot)
/dev/hda8..........5101.. 5227.... 1020096..... 82......Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/hda9..........5228.. 6502....10241406.......7......HPFS/NTFS...Win2003 (doesn't boot)

/dev/hda4..........6503 ..7476.... 7823655..... 83......Linux.......Fedora Core 5
 Your Ubuntu kernel should be located in your /dev/hda1 partition if that was your Ubuntu /boot partition. (hd0,0) in Grub's language.
Your Ubuntu initrd.img (ramdisk) should be in /dev/hda7, or (hd0,6) in Grub's terms.
I don't know the exact name for your initrd.img on /dev/hda7, and to boot Ubuntu, I think you will need to find that out somehow, and replace my suggested Ubuntu entry for your FC5 grub menu with the correct numbers. You may be able to do that by mounting with a LiveCD and taking a look, or by using the Grub Command Line.

You have two Windows operting systems, so I have tried to make up some Windows entries for your FC5 /boot/grub/menu.lst that include the unhide and hide commands. Perhaps that will help.
Here is my suggestion for editing your FC5 menu.lst, back up your existing one before modifying, of course, and give this a try and see if it any of this helps.
> # grub.conf generated by anaconda
#
# Note that you do not have to rerun grub after making changes to this file
# NOTICE: You do not have a /boot partition. This means that
# all kernel and initrd paths are relative to /, eg.
# root (hd0,3)
# kernel /boot/vmlinuz-version ro root=/dev/mapper/pdc_biccaibip4
# initrd /boot/initrd-version.img
#boot=/dev/mapper/pdc_biccaibi
default=0
timeout=10
splashimage=(hd0,3)/boot/grub/splash.xpm.gz
hiddenmenu

title Fedora Core (2.6.15-1.2054_FC5)
root (hd0,3)
kernel /boot/vmlinuz-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5 ro root=LABEL=/ rhgb quiet
initrd /boot/initrd-2.6.15-1.2054_FC5.img
boot

title Windows 2003 Server
unhide (hd0,8) # Windows 2003 Server
hide (hd0,1) # Windows XP Professional
rootnoverify (hd0,8) # Windows 2003 Server
makeactive
chainloader +1

title Ubuntu Linux
root (hd0,0)
kernel /vmlinuz root=/dev/hda7
initrd /boot/initrd.img-[COLOR=Red]2.6.12-9-386  #Please replace this number with the correct  one for your system[/COLOR]
boot

title Windows XP Professional
unhide (hd0,1) # Windows XP partition
hide (hd0,8) # Windows 2003 Server
rootnoverify (hd0,1)
makeactive
chainloader +1
 Give it a try and see what happens.
By the way, the smileys mean (hd0,8 ). (Without the gap after the '8').
Some other Fedora Core users  have had problems that have something to do with Fedora using LVM for its /boot partition when it installs. I don't know anything about LVM, but you installed FC5 without making a seperate /boot partition for FC5, so I don't know if that could be anything to do with your problem or not. (Possibly not). I am hoping it isn't partitioning problem to do with LVM as well as a grub problem. I cannot see anything to indicate the use of LVM in your /etc/fstab. If there is an LVM issue, you might need help from someone experienced with LVM and Fedora Core. Others have been successful in solving similar problems though.
I hope the above edited entires for your /menu.lst will do you some good.

Another idea might be to just try re-installing Grub to your Ubuntu /boot partition  and hope it will automatically configure itself correctly, or at least do better than FC5's GRUB. [Re-installing GRUB]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows?highlight=%28MBR%29")
Regards, Herman :D

---

