---
title: "./configure wont work as the configure file doesn't exist - icecat install"
date: 2009-09-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ozguitarplayer on 2009-09-27
Hi
I'm trying to install icecat.
I have extracted the files using <tar xvjf> all good.
When I try <./configure> I am told there is "No such file or directory"
and indeed there isn't such a file in the extracted folder.
I had the understanding that the configure file was created when the files are extracted.
Is there another way to configure icecat other than using ./configure or can I create the configure file somehow?

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2009-09-27
"I had the understanding that the configure file was created when the files are extracted."
Not always.  Sometimes an extracted file can be run without compiling it too (a few games come to mind). A makefile is important though. Try this...
```
make
sudo make install
```

---

### Post by ozguitarplayer on 2009-09-27
Thanks Shazaam
sudo make install gives me...(I haven't yet learned how to put information into those Code boxes yet)


nigel@MasterJack:~$ cd /usr/share/icecat
nigel@MasterJack:/usr/share/icecat$ sudo make install
[sudo] password for nigel: 
make: *** No rule to make target `install'.  Stop.
nigel@MasterJack:/usr/share/icecat$ 

I guess this isn't correct:)

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-09-27
maybe you  an archive with a pre-compiled binary..?

The source tarballs do have a configure
From the readme of one
> BUILD FROM TARBALL
==================
From the released IceCat source tarball, you can build in the
standard way:
./configure && make

Be sure you have installed the needed libraries.  If you want to tune
the configuration process you can change the default setup using the
file .mozconfig.

The default configuration of IceCat uses the following libraries:
libpango libpangoxft libpangoft2 libfreetype libxft libgtk2 libx11

Refer to your distro help as needed if the configure script fails to
find them.

[QUOTE]The Gnuzilla and IceCat home page:  [http://www.gnu.org/software/gnuzilla](http://www.gnu.org/software/gnuzilla)
The sources are hosted on Savannah: [http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gnuzilla](http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/gnuzilla)

[/QUOTE]

or
[ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gnuzilla/](ftp://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/gnuzilla/)

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2009-09-27
If it contains source code, then there might be a "src" directory that you might have to change to. Or you might just need to run "make" and then "sudo make install".

If it's a precompiled binary, then you should just run "icecat" in that directory and it will start to run.

---

### Post by ozguitarplayer on 2009-09-28
thanks all


./configure && make gives me... 

nigel@MasterJack:/usr/share/icecat$ ./configure && make
bash: ./configure: No such file or directory
nigel@MasterJack:/usr/share/icecat$

 


and make gives me...

nigel@MasterJack:~$ cd /usr/share/icecat
nigel@MasterJack:/usr/share/icecat$ make
make: *** No targets specified and no makefile found.  Stop.
nigel@MasterJack:/usr/share/icecat$ 

just doesn't want to play the game..

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-09-29
you probably have a precompiled source

try at your prompt (/usr/share/icecat$
```
./icecat
```

whether it should be in and run from /usr/share I don't know, though I wouldn't be inclined to do so

---

### Post by ozguitarplayer on 2009-09-29
Thanks mc4man that worked, it opened IceCat however it didn't load it into >Applications >Internet for easy access. 
Is there a command to sort that out?

Not knowing any better I put the file in /etc/share as I read somewhere?? that it was the best place, and since I always want to learn could you suggest where it would be better placed?

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2009-09-29
Go to Sysyem>Preferences>Main Menu (or enter alacarte in a terminal window), click on "Intenet" and chose "New Item". Add what you need in the "Create launcher" box.

---

### Post by ozguitarplayer on 2009-09-29
Great, that worked, the only thing missing is the IceCat icon which is in the Icecat folder just not in >Properties >Browse Icons, however I can live with that. Thanks again Shazaam.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2009-09-29
sometimes the browse to in the properties of a launcher can be a bit of a pita ( though not usually when there is only a few icons involved. ( you could always copy the icon to somewhere easy to browse to (/home/Documents for example

Noticed there is a ppa that has current .debs of icecat and seems to update them regularly ( if you wanted to do an install at some point)
just dl and install the one .deb, or add ppa if update notification is wanted

[https://launchpad.net/~sumydi/+archive/icecat-pkgs/+packages](https://launchpad.net/~sumydi/+archive/icecat-pkgs/+packages)

---

### Post by ozguitarplayer on 2009-09-29
Thanks for the support everyone all is now good.
I checked out the ppa however I'm a bit unsure what they are. 
I could see the downloads for IceCat that was alright, but I've come across reference to ppa's before, can anyone direct me to somewhere so that I can read and understand about them?

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2009-10-04
Someone correct me if I am wrong but I think ppa stands for "personal package archive". Maybe not. They should be safe but it is always a good idea to investigate them as much as possible. You can add the address in your repository list either through Software Sources>Third-Party Software  or Synaptic>Settings>Repositories>Third-Party Software.

---

