---
title: "13.10 Memory Usage"
date: 2013-10-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by speartip on 2013-10-27
Clean install of Ubuntu 13.10.
Is it just me or is 13.10 using substantially more memory than 13.04/12.04?
After say an hour of use, and after closing all programs, my system monitor shows I am using about 28% of my 4 gig memory.
This isn't causing any problems but on 13.04 it was using about 18%.
Nothing unusual is showing up in "htop". 
Anyone else noticed this?

---

### Post by vanadium on 2013-10-27
What I experience with Ubuntu 13.10 is that it appears to run smoother. The animations are smooth, subtile and gentle, to the extend that I do not have anymore any inclination to turn them off. I am not sure about a systematic higher memory use, though.

---

### Post by Jeremy Reid on 2013-10-27
Lubuntu is a much lighter alternative if you're worried about memory consumption - I'd assume that memory is higher in 13.xx because of the UI changes, as stated above.

---

### Post by speartip on 2013-10-27
I must agree that 13.10 is very smooth, & the memory consumption doesn't overly concern me.
It was just that it seems to be significantly higher than previous versions, & I wondered if anyone else had noticed this or is it just me?
ps. using Unity by the way.

---

### Post by Jeremy Reid on 2013-10-27
I did notice that myself when I opened it up in a VM. Hopefully they'll work something out to reduce it.

---

### Post by philinux on 2013-10-27
> **Jeremy Reid said:**
> Lubuntu is a much lighter alternative if you're worried about memory consumption - I'd assume that memory is higher in 13.xx because of the UI changes, as stated above.

Not sure the OP needs to worry too much with 4 GIG.

Here 13.10 seems to use less memory than previous versions. Conky is showing 32% 660Mb. This is on 64 bit Ubuntu too. Got Firefox and xchat running. Previously it would have been in the 800 range.

---

