---
title: "8.04 question"
date: 2008-07-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2008-07-02
Hi

fresh install of 8.04 and fully updated.

I've noticed at times the whole computer slowly quits.
Never did this on 7.10.
First Firefox appears to not startup get a firefox startup in the bottom pane,but then it goes away.Not all the time just sometimes.But when it starts doing that, Then the pulldown menus start fail. then applets fail, then I can't shut down with or restart so I have to hit the hard reset button.
Basically it slowly freezes up.

Any I've noticed that when I open synaptic it does not open the first time, after waiting a while I select it again and the login menu comes up, and I can login but 2 instances of synaptic then come up. ??

This is strange.

Is 8.04 a full release or is it still beta ?? Please advise.

I'm starting to miss my 7.10, but I don't want to resort backwards.

Please advise on this subject.
Thanks
 

Any clues ?

---

### Post by phidia on 2008-07-02
Probably your best bet is to report what you're seeing at [launchpad]("https://launchpad.net/ubuntu").
8.04 is a final release not a beta. There have been threads about problems with heron but you'll need to search for those in the forums.

---

### Post by Doji on 2008-07-02
Until you get a fix, try pressing alt+ctrl+backspace when it locks up instead of a hard restart. If that doesn't work (though it probably will) press alt+ctrl+F1, log in, and type sudo reboot. If THAT doesn't work (it's never failed for me) go ahead and [raise the skinny elephant]("http://www.brunolinux.com/01-First_Things_To_Know/Skinny_Elephants.html").

A hard restart shouldn't be necessary on linux.

---

### Post by AgentZ86 on 2008-07-02
> **Doji said:**
> Until you get a fix, try pressing alt+ctrl+backspace when it locks up instead of a hard restart. If that doesn't work (though it probably will) press alt+ctrl+F1, log in, and type sudo reboot. If THAT doesn't work (it's never failed for me) go ahead and [raise the skinny elephant]("http://www.brunolinux.com/01-First_Things_To_Know/Skinny_Elephants.html").

A hard restart shouldn't be necessary on linux.

Thanks go all this has been a big help.

I knew I should not have to restart linux, but I was not sure how to kill stuff when the desktop has problem. on KDE desktop I use to just hit alt,ctrl,esc and the skull and crossbones came up and I could just select any desktop item and kill the program, etc. or some other stuff too, but anyhow this should help

Perhaps I'll report it also.
Thanks

---

