---
title: "./configure issue - No package 'pygobject-2.0' found"
date: 2011-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-09-01
Hi,
I was trying to install a program, but it wouldn't compile. The program was runewin - an oldish and dead-since-2010 program - and the error was this:```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/bin/runewin", line 54, in <module>
    gtk.window_set_default_icon_from_file("/usr/share/pixmaps/runewin.svg")
glib.GError: Couldn't recognize the image file format for file '/usr/share/pixmaps/runewin.svg'
```I had no idea what that meant, so I googled. Just when my googler was about to fall off, I found an [article]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/runewin/+bug/594428") that said compiling 'pygtk' from source was a workaround for the issue, but in the end the matter was resolved. I don't know what they did to fix it though. So, I decided to go and compile pygtk from source. Now, it gives me its own error, saying:```
configure: error: Package requirements (pygobject-2.0 >= 2.21.3) were not met:

No package 'pygobject-2.0' found

Consider adjusting the PKG_CONFIG_PATH environment variable if you
installed software in a non-standard prefix.

Alternatively, you may set the environment variables PYGOBJECT_CFLAGS
and PYGOBJECT_LIBS to avoid the need to call pkg-config.
See the pkg-config man page for more details.
```Now I'm stuck and I have no idea what to do. Is there any hope for me?
 - search

---

### Post by gmargo on 2011-09-01
You need to install the **python-gobject-dev** package to compile the pygtk, but I'm not sure you should need to compile it.

---

### Post by gmargo on 2011-09-01
Exactly what "runewin" are you trying to install?

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-09-01
I'm not sure.
[http://runewin.wikidot.com/](http://runewin.wikidot.com/)

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-09-02
OK, thanks the suggestion made above I installed the package and pygtk compiled but runewin still does not start!
Are there any more suggestions out there?

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-09-02
OK, I have discovered now that runewin is old; much too old to be used with KDE or and current gnome packages.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-09-02
Why didn't you just install the .deb file?

[https://launchpad.net/~runewin-team/+archive/ppa]("https://launchpad.net/%7Erunewin-team/+archive/ppa")

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2011-09-04
Because it has strange and limitless dependencies that can only be installed by googleing.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2011-09-06
> **searchfgold6789 said:**
> Because it has strange and limitless dependencies that can only be installed by googleing.

You'll have the same dependencies regardless of whether you install a .DEB or you install from source.

Do you plan to compile all of the dependent sources as well?

apt-get takes care of the dependencies for you.

---

### Post by Triggerhapp on 2012-01-25
I realise I'm bumping a dead thread, which I apologise for.

I'm the maintainer of runewin and if ever the packages get out of date, send me a message over here to update again.

It should be back to a clean state again

---

