---
title: "Dial-up connection problems"
date: 2007-06-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by carrajung on 2007-06-02
I have been trying to get a connection to my ISP using Gnome-ppp without success.
I have included a copy of my connection log.
Can anyone help me?

--> Ignoring malformed input line: ";Do NOT edit this file by hand!"
--> WvDial: Internet dialer version 1.56
--> Cannot set information for serial port.
--> Initializing modem.
--> Sending: ATZ
ATZ
OK
--> Sending: ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
ATQ0 V1 E1 S0=0 &C1 &D2 +FCLASS=0
OK
--> Modem initialized.
--> Sending: ATM0L0DT*************	
--> Waiting for carrier.
ATM0L0DT********
CONNECT 115200
Unauthorised access to this computer system is prohibited
User Access Verification
Username: 
--> Carrier detected.  Waiting for prompt.
Username: 
--> Looks like a login prompt.
--> Sending: ??????????
???????????
Password: 
--> Looks like a password prompt.
--> Sending: (password)
Service-Type must be one of: Framed
Username: 
--> Looks like a login prompt.
--> Sending: ?????????????????
??????????????
Password: 
--> Looks like a password prompt.
--> Sending: (password)
Service-Type must be one of: Framed
--> Don't know what to do!  Starting pppd and hoping for the best.
--> Starting pppd at Sun Jun  3 09:36:13 2007
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/pap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> PAP (Password Authentication Protocol) may be flaky.
--> Warning: Could not modify /etc/ppp/chap-secrets: Permission denied
--> --> CHAP (Challenge Handshake) may be flaky.
--> Pid of pppd: 5517
--> Using interface ppp0
--> Disconnecting at Sun Jun  3 09:36:44 2007
--> The PPP daemon has died: A modem hung up the phone (exit code = 16)
--> man pppd explains pppd error codes in more detail.
--> Try again and look into /var/log/messages and the wvdial and pppd man pages for more information.

---

### Post by pistcivet on 2007-06-02
See if you can get online without gnome-ppp.

Have you tried this:
```
sudo wvdialconf /etc/wvdial.conf
```

Then, if that detects the modem, edit /etc/wvdial.conf
```
gksudo gedit /etc/wvdial.conf
```
uncomment and edit the lines for Phone, Password and Username.
and insert this line:
```
Stupid Mode = on
```

Then try to connect with:
```
sudo wvdial
```
which should dial and connect to you're ISP.
You MUST leave the terminal window open while online.
To disconnect type Ctrl-c.

---

