---
title: "10.04LTS vs. latest version"
date: 2011-06-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bre Ntt on 2011-06-30
Hello, 
I'm not to clear on the difference between LTS versions and other versions, but think I may want to go with LTS. Can someone tell me if my thinking is correct given the following situation: 

I have some very cool, but very expensive software installed with a group license from my school, a school which I am not going to be attending for too much longer. So I want to go as long as possible without reinstalling Ubuntu, because once the product is licensed it will be licensed until I reinstall Ubuntu (or I uninstall the program). So I think this is going to require me keep the Ubuntu version I install as long as possible. 

So in this case, should I go with 10.04LTS or should I just install Natty Narwhal and keep that as long as possible? It looks like 10.04LTS will be "supported" longer, but I'm not exactly clear on all that "supported" entails. Presumable it means security and software updates will be available for 10.04LTS for much longer than 11.x versions? So I'm thinking I should go with 10.04LTS

Is my thinking correct in going with 10.04LTS?

Edit: It was pointed out that this would be against my contractual agreements. Which I suppose is probably true. So please disregard.

---

### Post by Dangertux on 2011-06-30
I would go with 10.04 in this case yes. 

Actually I would go with 10.04 over 11.04 in almost any case but that is a preference thing lol.

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-06-30
10.04 will be supported through April 2013 (3 years total).
11.04 through October 2012 (18 months total).

---

### Post by Bre Ntt on 2011-06-30
Thanks guys :)

Probably a stupid question that I know the answer to, but just in case I'm missing something, is there a way to install a new version around installed software so as not to affect the licensing?

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2011-06-30
That depends on how that particular software's licensing works. Are you talking about a legal requirement that you don't want to violate, or an implementation issue in which an application tries to figure out for itself whether it's being used in accordance with its license?

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-06-30
> **Bre Ntt said:**
> 
I have some very cool, but very expensive software installed with a **group license** from my school, a school which **I am not going to be attending for too much longer**. So I want to **go as long as possible without reinstalling Ubuntu**, because once the product is licensed it will be licensed until I reinstall Ubuntu (or I uninstall the program). So I think this is going to require me keep the Ubuntu version I install as long as possible. 

When you agreed to the **group license**, it probably said that it was valid only while you were a student of the school that held the license. By trying to use it **as long a possible** after you are no longer a student of that school, you are not complying with what you agreed to.

If you personally bought the license; then, they would have provided you with a license key.

---

### Post by Bre Ntt on 2011-06-30
Is that what all that legalese says? Hmmm, I guess I'd be breaking my contractual agreements then, maybe I shouldn't do it.

---

### Post by Old_Grey_Wolf on 2011-06-30
> **Bre Ntt said:**
> Is that what all that legalese says? Hmmm, I guess I'd be breaking my contractual agreements then, maybe I shouldn't do it.

I don't have a copy of what you agreed to; therefore, I really don't know. 

Most of those university licenses state that they are only good while you are a student of the university.

---

### Post by Ralph Hinkley on 2011-06-30
You probably already knew this, and I don't know what the "expensive software" you have is or what it does, but since it looks like you are not going to be using it after you are no longer a student, I would peruse the "Ubuntu Software Center". It seems like there is free and legal software that does ALMOST everything to choose from.

---

