---
title: "screen resolution problems"
date: 2009-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by hemicro on 2009-04-21
Since installing 8.10 my maximum screen resolution is 800x600. I found that the video driver had not been installed for the video device. My resolution is running a 1280x768 in windows. I then installed the via s3g unichrome driver for the onboard video and now the computer locks up when the Ubuntu screen gets to the pastel color with the activity indicator. I then have to reset etc.
I have been impressed with some of the usefullness of this program, but it seems like the two weaknesses are the wireless adapters and the video. I have spent hours trying to get these to work.
I removed my GeForce 6200 card because I couldn't get it to work either and had lock up problems. I have since found numerous threads relating to this problem and have been able to resolve all of the resolution issues. Below is the xorg.conf file that I used. I am using Hyundai LCD monitor.
I now have numerous resolutions available and they work!!!!
I am now using Ubuntu 9.04!

# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Hyundai"
	Option	"DPMS"
	HorizSync 31-80
	VertRefresh	56-75
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"LCD"
	Monitor		"Hyundai"
	Device		"VIAInt"
	DefaultDepth	24
	#	SubSection "Display"
	#	Depth 8
	#	Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"
	#	Virtual  1024 768
	#	ViewPort 0 0
	#	EndSubSection
#	SubSection "Display"
#		Depth 16
#		Modes "1280x1024" "1024x768"
#		ViewPort 0 0
#		Virtual	800 600
#	EndSubSection
	SubSection "Display"
		ViewPort 0 0
		Depth 24
		Modes "1024x768" "1280x1024"
#		Virtual	1024 768
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"VIAInt"
	Driver "openchrome"
	BusID 	"PCI:1:0:0"
	Option 	"ActiveDevice" "LCD"
	# Option "LCDDualEdge" "true"
EndSection

---

