---
title: "14.04 headphones detected, but no sound through them"
date: 2015-10-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mvassilevsky on 2015-10-01
Sound settings detects my headphones and says they aren't muted, but the test sound doesn't do anything, and there's no sound from any other application, either.

Thanks in advance.

---

### Post by mvassilevsky on 2015-10-05
Sorry to bump this, but does anyone know of a solution?

---

### Post by Enigma12 on 2015-10-05
Since you've gone 4 days without an answer, that could be because you haven't said much in your question. I'll pretend you're my neighbor and ask you what I would ask him:

1 - Do you know that the headphones actually work anywhere?
2 - Are you using an adapter with the headphones? Do they work with that adapter anywhere?
3 - Where are you plugging in the headphones? Back of the computer? Front of the computer? In a socket built-in to speakers?
4 - If you are plugging into the computer, are you plugging into the socket with the _**green**_ rim?

Don't expect a quick response from me. I only log in here every couple of days lately.

---

### Post by mvassilevsky on 2015-10-06
1. Yes, the headphones work fine in Windows.
2. No, I'm not using an adapter.
3. I'm plugging them into the headphone jack in the front of the computer. Should've mentioned this before, sorry.
4. See above, I'm plugging them into the jack that has the headphone symbol below it.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-10-06
[https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/AlsaInfo](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Audio/AlsaInfo)

---

### Post by mvassilevsky on 2015-10-07
[Link]("http://www.alsa-project.org/db/?f=a17b70098b5b42f7d3696a9f5bd44a88a3d63414") to results.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-10-07
The first thing I would try is updating the sound module (and reboot): [https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-audio-dev/+archive/ubuntu/alsa-daily/+files/oem-audio-hda-daily-dkms_0.201509251532%7Eubuntu14.04.1_all.deb](https://code.launchpad.net/~ubuntu-audio-dev/+archive/ubuntu/alsa-daily/+files/oem-audio-hda-daily-dkms_0.201509251532%7Eubuntu14.04.1_all.deb)

---

### Post by mvassilevsky on 2015-10-08
That got the sound working (thanks!), but now they're constantly emitting a background hiss that they don't produce when used in Windows.

---

### Post by Yellow Pasque on 2015-10-08
The only suggestion I have for that is to try adjusting volume levels. If you are not using microphone/inputs, be sure to turn them down or mute them.
```
alsamixer
```

---

### Post by mvassilevsky on 2015-10-08
Muted everything except master and headphones, and it's still hissing, and it doesn't decrease with lower volume, though it stops if the headphones are muted altogether. At least the sound works now, though.

---

