---
title: "12.04 64-bit, browsers crash constantly"
date: 2012-05-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bmartin on 2012-05-13
Hello,

On one of my desktops running a 64-bit install, I can't use a web browser without it crashing every 10-100 seconds. It's very frustrating.

I've tried Firefox, Chrome, Konqueror and Opera. If I run Opera from the command line, when it crashes, it says **/usr/lib/opera/opera got signal SIGSEGV at address...**.

I don't have to be at any specific URL in order to crash the browser. I can go to a blank page when the browser starts up and it'll crash, sometimes within seconds.

I installed Ubuntu in late April. No other programs have crashed*, but I can't find a browser that doesn't crash.

* Except Apt, but somehow my cache files had become corrupted.

---

### Post by ahso4271 on 2012-05-14
Did you update? I had similar after an update....So be very careful what you update with the update manager! (see my other post)

---

### Post by bmartin on 2012-05-14
> **ahso4271 said:**
> Did you update?
This has been a problem ever since I installed 12.04. Updates don't seem to have an impact on the browser crashes.

---

### Post by bilbo1234 on 2012-12-17
I am currently having a similar problem after a recent update. Chromium and two flavors of Chrome (stable & unstable) both give me problems. About 75% of websites don't load, the browser tab just freezes and eventually asks me to kill the page. Firefox crashes a few seconds after starting.

Did you have any luck resolving this issue? I'm using LTS 12.04 on an Asus eee 1001p netbook, using "intel" Xorg drivers.

---

### Post by bilbo1234 on 2012-12-17
Sorry to hijack this thread. Starting chrome with "--disable-plugins" has improved the situation significantly. Still, some websites like gmail and facebook do not load correctly. Chrome displays the page but then the tab freezes.

---

### Post by bmartin on 2012-12-17
I never did get the computer to work properly. I tried out 12.10 when it came out, but the problem persists.

---

