---
title: "64bit 10.10 / ghost boxing issue on desktop w/ menus"
date: 2010-12-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-12-06
Here is a video of my problem.  I thought it would be easier to show you than to tell you. 

My start up seems lagged and I have a square ghost image popping up that wont go away.  The problem is intermittent.

10.10 desktop
64bit
HP A6600F
Radeon 4560
4gb ram 

This is a new problem.
[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wyDnY_PyEEE](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wyDnY_PyEEE)

For some reason I can't embed this video. #-o

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2010-12-06
Fresh install, or after upgrade, or sudden problem? What did you do to make this happen?
Have you tried purging and reinstalling gnome-panel yet?

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-12-06
This is a fresh install.  I do not know how to purge the panel or know what caused it to happen.

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-12-06
It looks like the problem isn't just with the panel...  It is now doing it in chrome and firefox.

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2010-12-06
Well, to purge and reinstall it you can do it one of two ways:

[LIST]
[*]From the terminal:
[LIST]
[*]Open up a terminal (applications>accessories>terminal)
[*]Copy and paste this line of code into it:```
sudo apt-get purge gnome-panel; sudo apt-get install gnome-panel
```
[*]Enter in the administrator's password, which will not actually show up, and press <Enter>
[*]Wait for the installation process to complete and restart your system.
[/LIST]
[*]Using Synaptic package manager:
[LIST]
[*]Open up synaptic (applications>system>Synaptic Package Manager)
[*]Type in the administrator's password and proceed.
[*]In the box at the top that says "Quick Search", type in "gnome-panel".
[*]The first result that appears will be gnome-panel, which is what you want purged. Click on the check box next to it and click on the menu entry that says "Mark for Complete Removal".
[*]It may prompt you to mark other packages for removal as well. Click Mark and it will mark them all for you.
[*]Click Apply, and wait as the packages are uninstalled completely.
[*]You might be prompted to restart, but do not do so. Instead go back to the search box at the top and search again for "gnome-panel".
[*]Again click the check box next to the first result. This time click the menu entry that says "Mark for Installation". Approve the marking of other packages and click Apply.
[*]Wait for the installation process to complete, and restart.
[/LIST]
[/LIST]

---

### Post by Sxynerd on 2010-12-06
Does it matter now that it does it in my web browser as well and not just limited to the panel?

---

### Post by searchfgold6789 on 2010-12-06
Oh... didn't see your other post... Instead, purge and reinstall "menu" like I described above except with gnome-panel.

---

