---
title: "9.10 CUPS Nightmare"
date: 2010-02-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by merrygoround on 2010-02-01
Like a lot of people, my CUPS broke after upgrading to 9.10, however, I have yet to find a fix for the problem. I tried to completely remove CUPS, but with my limited knowledge, who knows if I actually removed every little thing. I've reinstalled CUPS many times.

The only thing that worked was installing Boot-Up Manager, there was a cups.dpkg.new service that I started. But, upon restart, the option was no longer there and CUPS did not restart automatically on bootup.

I've done every Google search I can think of to find answers, but not a single forum post I've found has done the trick.

If I go to System>Admin>Printing. CUPS is not connected, if I try to connect is says 'httpConnectionEncrypt failed'

I've tried three different variations on "sudo /etc/init.d/cups restart"... none of them work.

Also, I don't have "System->Administration->Services" GUI.

What steps should I take? I've tried my best to use Ubuntu over the past two years, but I gotta say, it has not been a pleasant journey. Mainly when it comes to upgrades.

---

### Post by junapp on 2010-02-01
> **merrygoround said:**
> Also, I don't have "System->Administration->Services" GUI.
take a look at: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-system-tools/+bug/433701](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-system-tools/+bug/433701) for a discussion.

---

### Post by merrygoround on 2010-02-02
Downloaded ServiceManager ([forum post about it]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=8376891"))... though didn't do much for me, but nice to have nonetheless. 

As for my problem, I think I have it resolved. The issue being that after reinstalling CUPS in Synaptic Manager, it never seemed to make a new CUPS file in etc/init.d/, however, it made a file "cups.dpkg-new". So, I just did "sudo mv etc/init.d/cups.dpkg-new etc/init.d/cups" to rename it.  and then did "sudo /etc/init.d/cups start" and not only did it work, it continued to work after restarting.

Hopefully, this is an end to this problem, if not, I will be back.

---

