---
title: "10.04 Eternally Loading Please help"
date: 2012-03-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tagger on 2012-03-31
This is an install of Ubuntu 10.04 running in a virtual environment (virtual box) as a guest.  The host is Mac OS X Lion.

This has worked wonderfully for months and today I power up the machine and it sits at the loading splash screen with the dots that change color.  They never stop... and it never gets past the screen.  I cannot connect to its IP remotely, and going to a terminal just reveals a lone blinking cursor. (with no login options).

The only thing that has changed in the last week is I performed a series of updates yesterday, and I'm sorry to say I don't remember all of what was updated.   I have been using Linux and specifically Ubuntu 10.04 for some time... but I am at a loss as to how to recover this.  Any help welcome.  I am not running any proprietary drivers for video, or anything else.  It is all stock I simply installed the software I normally use.. 

Help?

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-03-31
> **tagger said:**
> This is an install of Ubuntu 10.04 running in a virtual environment (virtual box) as a guest.  The host is Mac OS X Lion.

This has worked wonderfully for months and today I power up the machine and it sits at the loading splash screen with the dots that change color.  They never stop... and it never gets past the screen.  I cannot connect to its IP remotely, and going to a terminal just reveals a lone blinking cursor. (with no login options).


Press CTRL-ALT-DEL or CTRL/C and see if it breaks out of the loop.

Alternatively select the Grub recovery option when you boot it.

---

### Post by tagger on 2012-04-02
Pressing Ctrl-C does nothing
Pressing Alt-Ctrl-Del does nothing

However pressing Alt-Ctrl-C brings me to a screen that I can see a message it says

```

fsck from util-linux-ng 2.17.2
/dev/sda1: clean, 2973942/4022272 files, 10787921/16081408 blocks

```

That is all it says, and it does not ever move past this.  Is it getting stuck at disk check?  (and if it is how do i bypass it to get started again?)

How do I get to the grub recovery boot option? I do not see grub when I load, and I have tried pressing ESC on boot but I cannot seem to get to grub.

---

### Post by tagger on 2012-04-02
Well that seems random... I was able to fix the problem, here is how.

1. I booted with the 10.04.3 Live CD. (and used the "Try" option)
2. I mounted the local hard drive by clicking on it in Nautilus.
3. I opened a terminal
4. I moved to the /media/{YOUR DRIVE ETNRY}/media
5. I removed ALL folders in the media directory on the mounted drive (for me there was an old SD card folder there...) (This required SUDO)
6. I forced check disk to start by running using the following command: tune2fs -c1 /dev/sda*   
WHERE sda* is your hard drive.  This forces a disk check on every reboot.
7. Rebooted.
8. Allowed fsck to run.
9. Waited..
10. Waited..
11. Pressed Alt-Ctrl-Del  

And I was back at my login prompt.  I don't know exactly what part fixed it, and I don't figure anyone will attempt to figure out why... (it seems a lot of people have had this issue and I haven't found any good docs on fixing...)  But I post it here in hopes that if it happens to me again I can find it.......

---

