---
title: "8.10 Ibex clock speed problems"
date: 2009-03-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by EDivMountie on 2009-03-26
Hello folks. I have suddenly developed a problem with my install that requires me to plead to the community for help. I have been running 8.10 for approximately 6 months now from a clean install with no issues whatsoever. Last week, I booted my machine to find that the system clock was running about 4 to 5 times too fast. This has the adverse effect of causing all other system functions which rely on system time to fail or be a general problem. For example, keystroke rate is affected (1 keypress could result in 6 characters on screen), screensaver comes on way too soon, animated gifs just fly like mad, etc. 

I have ruled out the following:
- Not a kernel problem, booted to old kernel with same results
- Also passed noapic to kernel at boot with no improvement
- Made several changes to  BIOS, including to power  management with no results
- Googled extensively. This yielded little, as all search terms similar to overclocking or throttling.
- Searched ubuntu forums. No luck. 
- hwclock --show  indicates proper time

Has anyone seen this problem before? Any input would be greatly appreciated. Thanks.

P

---

### Post by EDivMountie on 2009-03-27
Well... This has been solved. I worked my way backwards and figured that it may be a BIOS issue or another hardware issue. It turns out that changing the CMOS battery on the motherboard has solved the issue.

P

---

### Post by PrinceArithon on 2009-03-27
I had this problem about maybe 2 months ago, but it wasn't that big of a deal to me, but if I reset the clock and just let it run it's course by the end of the week it was obviously 10 to 15 minutes faster.  Then there was an update and the problem fixed...it was weird...

---

