---
title: "11.04 node js installation problem"
date: 2011-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by naymin on 2011-06-16
Hi,

There's this thing called nodejs, an evented I/O framework, server side javascript, which is great for writing web stuffs.

I successfully managed to install the latest version 0.4.6 (build from source) and can run a sample app.

But after closing the terminal after installation, and open the terminal again and type node, it says this :


The program 'node' can be found in the following packages:
 * node
 * nodejs
Try: sudo apt-get install <selected package>

This is very weird. After installation, WITHOUT closing the terminal, I can run the node just fine. But this happens after I close the terminal and open it back again.

Can anyone help me? I tried and 'cd' into node folder and run node but it still gives the same message.

Regards,
Nay Min

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-16
can you give us your histroy? Just do it with the command
```

history

```

Please cut out the terminal session that you used to install the program.

I think that the installation method added something to the PATH or that you used a ./ before the node command.

---

### Post by naymin on 2011-06-16
Thanks! That was fast.

Okay, I was following the instructions on- 
[https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installation](https://github.com/joyent/node/wiki/Installation)

I just tried opening the terminal and run the last line from command line on that page - 

source ~/.profile

Then the command is working again.
What does that mean anyway?

---

### Post by sanderd17 on 2011-06-16
in the command
```
echo 'export PATH=$HOME/local/node/bin:$PATH' >> ~/.profile
``` 
they add the command, to add the node bin directory to your . PATH, to your profile file. The .profile file is executed when you log in. So when you log in, this directory will be added to your path.

The source command is to refresh the configuration without the need to logout and login back again. 

Since it works with the source command, it should also work when you boot or login. If it doesn't please show your .profile file
```

cat .profile

```
and show the rights
```

ls -al .profile

```

---

### Post by lanshunfang on 2013-03-15
I got the same problems, and finally I figured out that I din't run the make && make install under sudo. So just sudo ./configure && sudo make && sudo make install, and it will work.

---

### Post by QIII on 2013-03-15
If a post is older than a year or so and hasn't had a new reply in that  time, instead of replying to it, create a new thread. In the software  world, a lot can change in a very short time, and doing things this way  makes it more likely that you will find the best information. You may  link to the original discussion in the new thread if you think it may be  helpful.

*Thread **closed.***

---

