---
title: "8.10 installation: partitioning / disk space (latest version): where's my USB HDD??"
date: 2008-12-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Piraja on 2008-12-24
Dear all!

Merry Christmas / Happy Holidays, first of all. It's Xmas eve and I'm running a LiveCD of Ubuntu 8.10 64bit on a brand new laptop (yes, Father Christmas / St. Nicholas / Santa Claus has something to do with this), already fed up with MS W. Visva (well, it's an Xmas present for the kids who want to game their Sims, etc.).

Now this is what puzzles me: I would like to install Ubuntu 8.10 64bit on an external USB HDD. But when I get to the partitioning phase of the install process all I see is what you can see in the screenshot (PFA). This is something new: in Hardy and earlier versions of Intrepid I was indeed presented with  all the available hard drives & flash drives, but now all I'm seeing is the freaking internal hard disk drive. 

And that's not where I want to install before I've tested some things first. 

Sorry for the term "freaking", but I'm a bit freaked out at the moment and wondering if I should fetch my OpenSUSE LiveCD instead...

Regards,

Piraja

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-12-24
you're right to feel exasperated...very confusing...the numbers don't even add up!  Whoever designed it oughtta be shot.  

try this method:
[http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2008/04/14/ubuntu-804-usb-hard-drive-install/](http://www.pendrivelinux.com/2008/04/14/ubuntu-804-usb-hard-drive-install/)
(works for flash drives as well as external usb hard disks)

---

### Post by Piraja on 2008-12-24
... but the Intrepid 64bit LiveCD is doin' so good that I just might install on the internal HDD anyway... 

I wonder if I should've partitioned the external HDD beforehand (with e.g. Gparted LiveCD, which is a beautiful tool indeed)... but then again, I don't think the USB HDD partitions would've showed up anyway...

So I'm (perhaps) protesting against the new partitioning policy of Ubuntu Intrepid Ibex LiveCD which does not seem to allow for external HDD installation (I do know about "Create a USB startup disk", but that's not the point!).

**EDIT**: thanks Logos34, I didn't read your comment before posting the above... Ah'm a peace-luvin' ol' cowboe, but ah knows what ye're talkin' 'bout anyway.

---

### Post by logos34 on 2008-12-24
> **Piraja said:**
> 
I wonder if I should've partitioned the external HDD beforehand (with e.g. Gparted LiveCD, 

sometimes that works, what I usually recommend people try next if the installer can't see the drive

good luck to you

---

