---
title: "9.04 Getting rid of Firefox Location Bar dropdown menu"
date: 2009-07-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-07-04
I have no clue as to how many people do not like that big window opening up under the URL location bar. I imagine some will swear by it. That's fine with me. But I really didn't like it. 

Here is how I eliminated  it. 

1. In URL window, type:
                > about:config
2. Accept the warning message. (BUT DO NOT IGNORE IT. Be careful)
3. Scroll down and find:
                > browser.urlbar.maxRichResults
4. My default was [COLOR="DarkOrange"]"12"[/COLOR], and I changed it to [COLOR="DarkOrange"]"0"[/COLOR].
5.Again scroll down and find:
                > browser.urlbar.matchOnlyTyped
6. The default was [COLOR="DarkOrange"]"false"[/COLOR], and I changed it to [COLOR="DarkOrange"]"true".
[/COLOR]
It works for me. I make no guarantees it will work for you. Use at you own risk. I might add that I always have a pad of paper nearby, on which I carefully note exactly what I change. It serves to allow me to change back if necessary, and it keeps a log of what I am doing.

---

### Post by akakingess on 2009-07-04
Thanks for the information, I am sure some will find it useful, but it would probably be better to be posted under the Tips & Tutorials rather than the help section of this forum. Just trying to help those who have problems and need help and their questions get bumped to page 2 within an hour.  Please don't take offence, like I said, I'm just trying to help out some of the others on this forum, too.

akakingess

---

### Post by thelugnut on 2009-07-04
Absolutely no offence taken. You are right, I should have posted it there. Maybe one of the monitors could move it for me. Thanks for the heads-up.

---

### Post by akakingess on 2009-07-04
No problem on the heads up, just keep those tips and tutorials coming!!!

akakingess

---

