---
title: "7.10 install problems"
date: 2007-11-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by kkmc92 on 2007-11-04
I requested a cd with ubuntu 7.10 from ship it and i got it in the mail the other day.  
       I have a HP Omnibook 500 and a blank 10 gig hard drive i would like to install it on just so th pc is'nt a total junk heap.  

       The direction that were on the box said to run the live cd and double click on the install icon . I can get as far as that, but when i click the install icon, it sits for a few minutes and pops up with a window that says somthing like launching install, click cancel to stop. It eventually takes that box away and then does nothing. I let it sit there for an hour but it failed to do any thing.

          If anyone has ideas , or knows I am doing somthing wrong please let me know.

---

### Post by Sparky222B on 2007-11-04
Try using the alternate installer disc...download and burn an ISO if it. It has the old Ubuntu 5.X-style text-based installer, which will require you to be present and take longer to install, but won't lock up in the manner you described.

---

### Post by TXPoloPolo on 2007-12-19
I finished the installation on a 600Mhz Omnibook 500 w/256MB of RAM from a Live 7.10 ISO CD image just as Sparky222B described.  A couple of notes:

1)  Be sure to use the F4 key on the opening screen to select the proper resolution of the built-in monitor.  1024x768x16  instead of the default 640x480 VGA mode.  I ignored it the first time and only could see the top half of the screen!
2) The LCD clock in the docking station reflects GMT while the Linux system displays the time properly with the correct Central Time Zone offset.
3) No trouble with Data CD ROM's, but audio CD's report an error reading "Invalid track 
number. Must be between 1..99"
4) I would recommend connecting to a hardwired Ethernet port for the duration of the installation.  That way, all the required patches, updates, and security fixes are downloaded before you try to worry about activating any wireless cards. 

I have enjoyed getting to use this trusty old laptop again for surfing wirelessly around the house and learn a little more about what makes Ubuntu special.

-- Marco 
(Dallas, TX)

---

