---
title: "2.6.24-16 kernel problem?"
date: 2008-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by IagainstI on 2008-05-14
I posted this under "Installation & Upgrade", because that's when I found it, but probably works better in this area. (Sorry about the double thread.)

When I attempt to boot into ubuntu, my boot gets very slow during the "waiting for root file system" phase. I get an extra minute of boot time during this phase.

The weird thing is that when I change the menu.lst file to say /dev/sda2 instead of using the UUID, I avoid the slow boot issue--the first time I reboot after making the change. Every subsequent boot sequence gives the same slow boot issue.

If I change back to the UUID from /dev/sda2, I again avoid the slowdown the first time I reboot, but then the boot is slow again until I change the menu.lst file again.

What is going on here?

Furthermore, if I boot using 2.6.22-14, there is no slow boot issue.

Any ideas?

Anyone?

Bueller?

---

### Post by ibuclaw on 2008-05-14
What is your system spec?
Are you running Laptop/Desktop? Processor Speed/Amount of RAM/Swap/etc...

Also, can you copy and paste your grub menu file up in your next post.
```
grep -v "#" /boot/grub/menu.lst | uniq
```
Also, your grub settings will help as well:
```
grep "#" /boot/grub/menu.lst | grep "=" | grep -v "##"
```

They are commands that will have to be executed in the terminal.
Fullscreen is prefered for readability.

Also, next time you boot up, and you see the Ubuntu Splash Loader. Hit "**CTRL+ALT+F1**" and you'll be taken to the text-based loader.

I presume that it will probably just be one module that temporarily hangs on loading, so you should note down any processes that seems slow to load on bootup (Ideally, it should be a steady stream of text that goes bouncing down the page).

Regards
Iain

---

