---
title: "Grub Rescue Issues on Netbook"
date: 2010-11-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by immatelluwhat on 2010-11-24
Hi all, I'm a linux/unbuntu n00b and having some major issues here. I am new to using Ubuntu and have been experimenting with it on my netbook as well as kubuntu and a few others. I love the linux alternatives to Windows. It started with me running Windows 7 Starter along side Ubuntu. I was trying to resize my Windows partition and give Ubuntu more space. I managed to somehow delete the wrong partition, making a very careless mistake. Long story short, my netbook is stuck at the grub rescue screen and I have been searching the net for about 3 hrs just tonight plus whatever time I spent last night searching and cannot get this fixed. I've tried booting from the flash drive using Unetbootin and it will say "Missing operating system" before the grub rescue prompt and I did change my boot sequence. I've also tried using some commands in grub rescue and got various messages such as, no such disk, no such partition, cannot find "grub_xputs", cannot find C/H/S values... 

I have a Gateway LT21 netbook with a 250gb hdd. Any help is appreciated. I realize this is a common issue and has been posted a lot but I have searched and my issue is on going and I'm guessing its specific to my setup. I apologize in advance if this specific issue has been solved but I could not find any solution. Can someone kindly guide me through a solution? :confused:

---

### Post by boot_sectorz on 2010-11-24
Try this:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1624024](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1624024)

If it fails try installing 10.04, much more reliable than 10.10 so far

boot with ubuntu live-CD by selecting 'try ubuntu'. Then open Applications, Accessories, terminalq
and type:
sudo fsck /dev/sda5
After repair, reboot

---

### Post by wilee-nilee on 2010-11-24
Run the bootscript in my signature. Come back to the thread open a reply and click on the # in the reply panel, paste all the text from the file generated by running the script, in between the code tags.

---

### Post by immatelluwhat on 2010-11-25
boot_sectorz: I have attempted to load the disc image from USB but when I do that it gives me the "Missing operation system" message before the grub rescue, so I cant even get to the "try ubuntu" option. I also going to have to dig out my external CD drive and burn the iso and try that. 

wilee-nilee: I will have to get out my ethernet cable and plug into my router as I usually go wireless with the netbook. I will do so a.s.a.p. With today being Thanksgiving I havent much time but I wanted to at least reply quickly in appreciation. I should have time tomorrow to give this a shot. Happy Holidays!

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-11-25
Can you still get to the Grub rescue prompt, and if so, do you have a copy of the LiveCD iso available on a flash drive? (Leave the flash drive disconnected at first if you can get to a grub prompt without it).

If you can, check out this link:
[HOWTO: Boot & Install Ubuntu from the Grub Rescue Prompt]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599293")

---

### Post by drs305 on 2010-11-25
Can you still get to the Grub rescue prompt, and if so, do you have a copy of the LiveCD iso available on a flash drive? (You can leave the flash drive disconnected at first if you can get to a grub prompt without it).

If you can, check out this link:
[HOWTO: Boot & Install Ubuntu from the Grub Rescue Prompt]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1599293")

By the way, if you feasting on turkey today, remember: 

You are what you eat.  ;-)

---

