---
title: "10.04 on a 16gB stick ... where is the unused space?"
date: 2010-08-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by basicbill on 2010-08-16
I installed 10.04 on a 16gB usb drive. I set it up as a 4 gig persistent installation. I use it on my work laptop while at home all the time.

I'm now running into a low disk space warning.

I don't know where to find the additional 10 or 12 gigs.

Anyone run into this...or know how to track down the missing space?

---

### Post by gufide on 2010-08-16
just format it

---

### Post by SoFl W on 2010-08-16
Use the disk utility, that will find it, and then you can format it.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-08-16
Gparted is another good tool that I use, for me it seems better than the Disk Utility.  You can install it with Synaptic.  You have to select your flash drive from the drop down menu at the top (normally called /dev/sdb1 or something).

---

### Post by basicbill on 2010-08-16
gparted shows /dev/sdb1...mount point /cdrom...filesystem fat32...the whole thing

Used 4.56GiB .... Free 10.35GiB

(my hard drive is XP and is 160Gib.../dev/sda1)

I can't write to /cdrom because of permissions. Am I able to change permission on /cdrom?

I think we're getting closer.

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-08-16
If it is a USB stick, I don't think you need to mess with /cdrom.

---

### Post by basicbill on 2010-08-16
When I open /cdrom I see the following folders....
casper
dists
install
preseed
syslinux

I think that these are the ubuntu system files...no?

Should I be able to access the 10GiB that are available in this directory?

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-08-16
> **basicbill said:**
> When I open /cdrom I see the following folders....
casper
dists
install
preseed
syslinux

I think that these are the ubuntu system files...no?

Should I be able to access the 10GiB that are available in this directory?

Those are the Ubuntu sys files, but are you using a cd or a usb stick?
To reinstall Ubuntu, delete those files and follow the instructions to install again.  Or you could format, but you don't really have to.

---

### Post by basicbill on 2010-08-16
My ubuntu installation is on a usb stick....but it looks like it's being mounted as /cdrom.

This laptop has a dvd drive and it is being mounted as /itstitle

---

### Post by ubudog on 2010-08-16
Hmm... Maybe tomorrow.  It is late.

---

### Post by basicbill on 2010-08-16
no problem...thanks...we can talk again

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-08-16
If you have a nice large 16GB flash drive, you should not just use it as a install flash. You can put a full install on it using about 8GB for root and another 8GB for /home.

Standard full install to flash or SSD:
Ubuntu Karmic Koala Encrypted Flash Memory  Installation
[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p19.html](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p19.html)

I have another 4GB flash that I installed grub2 onto and then just copy several ISO files and loopmount boot with grub.  This is the flash I use for all installs as all I have to do is copy over the new ISO (& edit grub.cfg). And I have my emergency boot ISO, gparted, system rescue etc.

[http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Bash%20Commands.html#GRUB_USB](http://members.iinet.net/~herman546/p20/GRUB2%20Bash%20Commands.html#GRUB_USB)
 HOWTO: Booting LiveCD ISOs from USB flash drive with Grub2 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1288604](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1288604)
Basically you just install grub2, create a folder for the isos and edit a grub.cfg to loop mount the isos.

MultiBootUSB - Install and boot multiple Linux from Pendrive / Flash drive / USB disk 
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1518273](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1518273)
[http://blog.p-mt.net/archives/644](http://blog.p-mt.net/archives/644)

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-08-17
The live iso on bootable USB is on a FAT32 (vfat) partition.  Basically the syslinux boots the kernel and a squashfs file system and that then loop mounts the casper-rw file as persistent data.  But the USB partition containing those is usually auto mounted separately and shows up as an icon on your desktop, or at least in Places.  Wherever sdb1 is mounted would have the missing 10 GB (what does the **mount** command or **df** show?).  But that would not be used for Linux system files because FAT32 has no concept of file permissions.

So if you add too many programs or download large files to your home directory you might run out of persistent data, even if there is FAT32 space left.  You can add programs, users, and configurations for things like time and networking, but should not do kernel updates because the original kernel is booted before persistent data is mounted.

---

### Post by basicbill on 2010-08-17
Thanks for all the good info.
I did a quick df and the output is below. It seems to verify that the missing 10 gigs is on /cdrom. But I can't write to it. It has locked with root privileges. (CECODE_09 is a cdrom sitting in the dvd drive) Should I be looking to change permissions on /cdrom or is it possible?


ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ df
Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
aufs                   3537734   2893603    441891  87% /
none                   1543340       324   1543016   1% /dev
/dev/sdb1             15610712   4761808  10848904  31% /cdrom
/dev/loop0              688000    688000         0 100% /rofs
none                   1548328      1368   1546960   1% /dev/shm
tmpfs                  1548328        16   1548312   1% /tmp
none                   1548328        92   1548236   1% /var/run
none                   1548328         0   1548328   0% /var/lock
none                   1548328         0   1548328   0% /lib/init/rw
/dev/sr0                 81450     81450         0 100% /media/CECODE_09

---

