---
title: "Special characters in filenames"
date: 2008-07-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by 5circles on 2008-07-12
I'm trying to do a mirror from a network storage drive to an external drive on a Ubuntu system.  I'm using 'cp -dpRuv' to do this,  but discovered that quite a few filenames are showing up with errors - can't open and can't stat.

I started to clean the files up by renaming and deleting, but then realized that there is no reasonable way to prevent these characters appearing in filenames generated by Windows programs.  Some come from the applications own files.  Some from browser favorites.  Some from CDEX ripping CDs with titles with foreign characters.

Is there some way to avoid this being an issue using a simple tool like cp?  Or if not, are there other programs I should be using for this kind of copy across operating systems?

Thanks
Mike

---

### Post by freebeer on 2008-07-13
What kind of special characters are you running into?  I can't recall an issue with filenames in Linux... in my experience the set of allowable characters in a linux file name is more robust than Windows.

I'm wondering if you aren't running into a different problem (and you're interpreting it as a file name issue).  I know that I've experienced problems transferring large numbers of files at a time to a USB-based external drive.  It went away when I copied each folder by itself.  I'm guessing that the data transfer rate from the hard drive was too fast for the USB port and receiving drive to handle.  Copying in more manageable chunks seemed to fix the problem for me.

---

### Post by p_quarles on 2008-07-13
I second freebeer's point that we don't know what kind of problem we're dealing with here yet. Try copying one of these problematic files individually and see what happens with that. Some characters will need to be escaped, but that's easy using either \ or "". E.g.:
```
cp file\ with\ lots\ of\ spaces.txt /media/backup
```
or
```
cp "file_with^^^strangemarks&trailings----" /media/backup
```
If escaping doesn't stop the problem, then it's likely a different issue.

---

### Post by 5circles on 2008-07-13
I don't think the problem is related to the data transfer rate or anything else to do with the drive being external.  The copy did thousands of files with over 200Gigs of data, and the only ones with problems had strange characters.  Still, it is interesting to know about this potential problem for the future.

I don't understand why escaping would have anything to do with the problem since I'm using cp to do wildcard copies.  So cp and/or the OS will be responsible for the escaping - won't it?  Me manually copying using escaping doesn't seem to be a parallel 

However, I did try copying with escapes and looking at the directories with ls and nautilus, leading me to the conclusion that there is something about the characters themselves and OS interaction.  I wasn't able to copy - because I couldn't enter the characters.  I tried to set up the compose key and couldn't make it work.  Also tried copy/paste from Windows (through VNC) and couldn't get that to work either.  I haven't tried hex or octal codes.  

The problem characters are mostly foreign language (e acute, e grave, circumflexes, etc).  There are also a few filenames with circle R (registered trademark).

When I look at the directory with Nautilus, the problem filenames   have a black diamond with white questionmark - at the point where the character is.  These files also show up in icon view with a message in parentheses about invalid encoding.

When I look at the directory with ls, I see two files for each one that has a problem filename.  The first filename has an underscore where the problem character it, and the second has a question mark.  Thus

```
Charles Trenet - Vous _tes Jolie.mp3
Charles Trenet - Vous ?tes Jolie.mp3
```

Does that help?

Thanks



```

```

---

### Post by 5circles on 2008-07-25
Update.  I'm able to copy files with the special characters using cp when the disks are in the same system.

So the problem is something about going through the network.  Samba?

Mike

---

### Post by DiGiTY on 2008-07-27
I also have the same problem. I'm trying mirror my music collection to my Ubuntu server from my WinXP box and  transfers stop with files that contain foreign accent characters (spanish, french, italian, etc.) in their filename. I've tried transferring via FTP, SMB and Retrospect's open file duplicate feature (sorta like RSYNC'n), but they always fail when they get to foreign characters.

I thought Linux/UNIX had more robust support for foreign charsets than Windows too, what gives?

---

### Post by 5circles on 2008-07-28
Good to know that someone else has the same problem for the same reason and is also wondering why Linux doesn't have better support than Windows.

I'm beginning the think that the issue is related to Unicode.  I tried to follow the instructions in [HTML]<a href="http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=288534&amp;highlight=unicode" target="_blank">Mount samba shares with utf8 encoding using cifs - Ubuntu Forums</a>[/HTML], but haven't yet seen any difference.

I don't have time to check any further for the next few days, but I'll probably do some more digging next weekend.

Mike

---

### Post by sharad.sharma on 2008-08-06
yes,I am having the same problem as well on Ubuntu 8.04.MP3s with some special characters ..for example : [&#65533;c] are shown to have invalid encoding and Amarok can't play them either,
Renaming the files and removing the special characters does not help.
Any possible solution?

---

### Post by sirsabi on 2008-09-15
I'm having the same problem ... I tried copying some CD files with special characters using the Dolphin File Manager (packaged with Hardy) ... the resulting error was as follows:

> The file or folder .......... does not exist.

The file is however, displayed when viewed in Dolphin ... and copies fine when I use a windows system.

Siraj

---

### Post by rabid9797 on 2008-11-15
bumping this thread, i have the same problem

---

### Post by dcstar on 2008-11-15
It may be related to this:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/200595](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/200595)

---

### Post by rabid9797 on 2008-11-17
> **dcstar said:**
> It may be related to this:

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/200595](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+bug/200595)


that did it! i just needed to add 
```
iocharset=utf8
```

into fstab. fixed my problem! thanks!

---

### Post by asimeow on 2009-02-21
I'm not sure that I have the same problem, but anyway, here goes : 

I use a computer running Vista to work with my mp3s (id3-tagging, renaming files etc). A filename might be : 

03 A Nap És Szél Háza.mp3

My mp3 server is running Ubuntu 8.10 with Subsonic for streaming. I transfer the files from Vista to Ubuntu using FTP (in Total Commander 7.04a, if that matters). 

In Total Commander, when browsing the folder on Ubuntu, the filename still looks ok, but when I browse with GNOME Commander on the Ubuntu box, it looks like : 

03 A Nap ?s Sz?l H?za.mp3

When I try to move this file to a different disk on the Ubuntu box, I get "Generic error". It moves all other files, without special characters, without any problems.

Any ideas as to where I'm going wrong here?
I recently moved to Ubuntu for the mp3 server and I'm loving it so far, so hopefully this won't be the thing that forces me to return to Windows again :P

---

### Post by Fisralkon on 2009-03-25
I had the very same error after using WinSCP to transfer files with Swedish characters in the filenames from the soon-to-be-retired WinXP machine to the new Ubuntu 8.10 machine. Files with special characters in the file names (åäö) had those characters replaced with a '&#65533;' and were also marked with "invalid encoding". However, they looked OK from the WinSCP browser.

I was able to solve this by sharing the WinXP folder over the local network (wireless in my case) and then pulling them in from the new PC instead, just using copy-paste in Nautilus (you just have to go to the windows share using the 'Go' menu in Nautilus). I actually found this simpler than using WinSCP, and in my case it also got higher transfer speed.

Hope this can be of some help.

---

### Post by asimeow on 2009-03-26
For me, the solution was using WinSCP and setting the encoding correctly there :) My problem previously was that I was using Total Commander, which doesn't have the same support for changing the encoding settings.

---

