---
title: "...Can't get into my session &quot;Broken pipe&quot; message"
date: 2011-10-17
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Octavio1 on 2011-10-17
Hi,
I'm running the 11.10 ubuntu new release.
I can't get to log into my session, after the password submission a fast black screen appears with a list of  "... broken pipe"
"... broken pipe"
"... broken pipe" messages (and something else can't catch it as it goes to fast) and immediatly the log in box come back again asking for password.

I can log with the gest session.
The pc hard drive is full.

Please can you help me ?

Thank-You !

Octavio

---

### Post by hwttdz on 2011-10-18
I'd alt+ctrl+f2 and try to login at the text terminal and see what it says there.  If you can login there I'd reset your profile settings (or at least move your saved settings somewhere else), by doing:

cd
mkdir profile_settings
\ls -A|grep -E "^\."|xargs mv -t profile_settings

then try to login again, all your settings will have been reset, if you want the settings for a given program back go into profile_settings, and copy the folder with the settings for that program back into your home directory.  i.e. for firefox I'd do
cp ~/profile_settings/.mozilla ~

---

### Post by decoherence on 2011-10-18
You say your HD is full?

Linux will not work properly if the hard drive is full. It will do all kinds of crazy things and might even kick your dog or insult your mother.

---

### Post by Octavio1 on 2011-10-19
Thank-You hwttdz and decoherence. I did log on the command line and erase some files, restarted and did log into my session. Now something gone wrong with my gnome ubuntu 11.10 session as the launcher, time and more has disappeared.

Octavio.

---

