---
title: "10.10 sun-java6-plugin : blank java applet windows :("
date: 2011-03-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tolas on 2011-03-04
Ok, i installed sun-java6-plugin and am trying to view a java applet in firefox.

But no luck so far.. The applet window stays blank. I did get a "do you trust this applet" window, that i clicked "yes" to.

Any help will be much appreciated.

user@host:~$ dpkg -l | grep java
rc  ca-certificates-java                  20100412                                          Common CA certificates (JKS keystore)
ii  java-common                           0.38                                              Base of all Java packages
ii  javascript-common                     7                                                 Base support for javascript library packages
rc  libaccess-bridge-java-jni             1.26.2-5                                          Java Access Bridge for GNOME (jni bindings)
ii  plasma-scriptengine-javascript        4:4.5.1-0ubuntu3.1                                the JavaScript script engine for Plasma
ii  sun-java6-bin                         6.24-1build0.10.10.1                              Sun Java(TM) Runtime Environment (JRE) 6 (architecture dependent files)
ii  sun-java6-fonts                       6.24-1build0.10.10.1                              Lucida TrueType fonts (from the Sun JRE)
ii  sun-java6-jre                         6.24-1build0.10.10.1                              Sun Java(TM) Runtime Environment (JRE) 6 (architecture independent files)
ii  sun-java6-plugin                      6.24-1build0.10.10.1                              The Java(TM) Plug-in, Java SE 6

---

### Post by tolas on 2011-03-04
[At first glance] other java applets [seem to]  work fine, and the one i need as well on the manufacturers page..

---

### Post by tolas on 2011-03-04
Well, i spoke too soon again..

All java applets, not just the one i need, fail after 2 page reloads.

The one i need i could view exactly 2 times when browsing to localhost instead of my internet domain name, after that: totally gray applet, every time.

I'm back to blaming the java engine..

---

### Post by bollix47 on 2011-03-04
If you're using Firefox 3.6.14 this is a known problem and is being worked on by Mozilla.

[http://support.mozilla.com/en-US/questions/788405](http://support.mozilla.com/en-US/questions/788405)

---

### Post by tolas on 2011-03-04
Ok, thanks for the reply..


I also tried the icedtea plugin, but with not much more luck.
Under icedtea, i did narrow it down to my usage of jQuery dialogs that seems to be causing the problem; [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1699796](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1699796)

I guess i'm switching back to windows for now, I don't wanna bang my head against a brick wall all day.

---

### Post by bollix47 on 2011-03-04
The windows version has the same problem in 3.6.14 but you can easily go back to .13.

[https://support.mozilla.com/en-US/kb/pogo-and-other-java-pages-dont-work](https://support.mozilla.com/en-US/kb/pogo-and-other-java-pages-dont-work)

Not sure how to revert in Ubuntu. :(

---

### Post by gnobal on 2011-03-04
A few days ago I upgraded the sun-java6-* packages to 6.24. Following that Eclipse started crashing consistently after a few minutes of use. I reverted to 6.22 and locked (for now) the following packages:
sun-java6-jre
sun-java6-bin
sun-java6-jdk

Not sure that this will help you, but maybe it's worth a shot (you might want to revert sun-java6-plugin as well)

---

