---
title: "12.04-How to stop automatic download of updates? &quot;Software Sources&quot;,&quot; Update Manager&quot;"
date: 2012-07-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-22
Does anyone else using Precise notice that security updates are downloaded automatically, and in "Software Sources", you can not select anything but "Download and install automatically"? 

I had this posted in the Security forum area, but no one can confirm if this a bug or a feature?  - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2029959](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2029959)

Please check this on your system.  
Thanks!
MRK

---

### Post by Rex Bouwense on 2012-07-22
I'm using Lubuntu but my update manaager allows me to choose between
1. Display immediately
2. Download automatically
3. Download and install automatically
Click the little arrow to get your choices.  I haven't used Ubuntu in a while but I seem to remember the same stuff there.

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-22
Does it save your settings - change it and  then reboot, and see.  Thanks.

---

### Post by s.fox on 2012-07-23
Thread moved to [Ubuntu +1 (Quantal Quetzal)]("http://ubuntuforums.org/forumdisplay.php?f=416")

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-23
Why has this been moved?

It's a problem with the current 12.04LTS, not a development issue!

Regardless, it was downloading something again this morning, although the update manager did not appear. 

Does anyone know how to control this?

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-07-23
my workaround is to use synaptic, update-manager have too much issues (does not like headaches)

---

### Post by jerrylamos on 2012-07-23
First thing on installing QQ I install Synaptic then choose settings repositories add partners delete any unknown or unauthorized repositorues, then check Update Off, security updates to notify only, notify about LTS off, then Reload.

That's from memory.  In development I typically do one update a day at the time of my choice which is in process right now so I can't crank up Synaptic until the update finishes, 

sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade

Do note aptitude safe-upgrade is safer, however on Development QQ it hasn't been installing all the desired updates.

Now, in QQ development, I do expect sudo apt-get dist-upgrade to trash the install from time to time so backups and alternate partitions are essential.

There have been a couple weeks during Alpha when I couldn't get a QQ to install on one or the other of my pc's.

Anyway I use synaptic a lot and I'm surprised Development doesn't think it is needed in Alpha/Beta.  I'm curious to see if they will still support it.  The BFB doesn't begin to approach Synaptic's capabilities.

Jerry

---

### Post by s.fox on 2012-07-23
> **emarkay said:**
> Why has this been moved?

It's a problem with the current 12.04LTS, not a development issue!

Your thread title is:

"**12.10-How to stop automatic download of updates? "Software Sources"," Update Mana"**

Do you wish the thread title to be updated and moved?

---

### Post by emarkay on 2012-07-23
Aaaargh, ye dreaded Typo-by-association.  Avasat ye, and shiver my quivers...

Yes, I have goofed; it is 12.04.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2012-07-23
Moved to General Help, and edited title.

---

