---
title: "Thunderbird refuses to send mail"
date: 2017-04-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by michael239 on 2017-04-25
Hi.
First, just to make sure you get the right picture. I was (still) running Thunderbird on Ubuntu 15.10 &#8211; worked fine &#8211; but my Ubuntu crashed because of a &#8216;bad sector&#8217; on my hard disk. I have just re-installed Ubuntu and Thunderbird. Ubuntu version is now 16.04 and Thunderbird is 45.8.0

 The Problem : I can receive mail, but am unable to send. All I get is this error message :

&#8220;*Sending of the message failed.*
*The message could not be sent using Outgoing server (SMTP) mail.m-v-p.net for an unknown reason. Please verify that your Outgoing server (SMTP) settings are correct and try again*.&#8221;

 I have checked my Account Settings and as far as I can see, the SMTP setting is correct. I even have a second Outgoing server, tried that one, but got the same result. I also tried different security settings (None, STARTTLS, SSL/TLS), but to no reveal.

 What is going wrong, or what am I doing wrong?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-04-25
I suggest you ask your mail service provider in order to check that they have not made any changes to settings required to send mail.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-04-25
> **ajgreeny said:**
> I suggest you ask your mail service provider in order to check that they have not made any changes to settings required to send mail.

+1. This is not really a Ubuntu issue. ;)

Welcome. Your ISP should provide the exact details for your email setup, including security settings, rather then you having to fish around for what works and doesn't. ISP usually gives you the information and you just pump the info into your email client where appropriate. 

The settings for outgoing mail are wrong at either your end or the ISP's. Double check with them.

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-04-25
> **michael239 said:**
> *The message could not be sent using Outgoing server (SMTP) mail.m-v-p.net for an unknown reason. Please verify that your Outgoing server (SMTP) settings are correct and try again*.”

What is the name of the email provider ?

---

### Post by michael239 on 2017-04-26
Sorry for the late reply.
 It cannot be something my mail service provider changed. I also have an Apple iPad and its mail programme uses exactly the same account settings (i.e. with SSL enabled), and it still works fine. So there has to be something going wrong with either Thunderbird 45.8.0 (most probably) or Ubuntu 16.04. Fact is, the Thunderbird version that came with Ubuntu 15.10 did work perfectly.

 I only tried different security settings in an attempt to find out if that would make a difference, but it was not to be expected.

 I know this is not an Ubuntu issue as such, but I posted the problem here because on the Mozilla/Thunderbird forum I didn’t even get an answer.
 I am considering to install ClawsMail to see if the same problem occurs there. But in the meanwhile, any suggestions or solutions you guys can come up with are very welcome indeed.

---

### Post by scriber on 2017-04-26
I have no problem at all sending/receiving mail with T'bird 45.8.0 and Ubuntu 16.04.1

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2017-04-26
Let's start with a simple test.  From a terminal on the machine running Thunderbird use
```
telnet mail.m-v-p.net 25
```
You should see a banner that looks somewhat similar to this:
```

Trying N.N.N.N...
Connected to mail.m-v-p.net
Escape character is '^]'.
220 mail.m-v-p.net ESMTP Sendmail 8.13.8/8.13.8; Wed, 26 Apr 2017 09:45:15 -0400

```
That banner is generated by the sendmail program.  Your provider may be using another program with a different banner, but you should still see a response of some kind.

If this computer can browse web sites, but you cannot connect to the mail.m-v-p.net, that's an ISP problem.  If it does connect, continue on with this dialogue:
```

ehlo your_server_name
[server replies]
mail from: you@yourdomain.com
[server replies]
rcpt to: someone@somewhere.com
[replies]
data
[replies]
this is a test
.
[server confirms message is sent]

```

Use Ctrl+] to leave the session, then type "quit" at the telnet prompt that follows.  Replace your_server_name with the name of your machine, and replace those bogus email addresses with real ones.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-04-26
> **scriber said:**
> I have no problem at all sending/receiving mail with T'bird 45.8.0 and Ubuntu 16.04.1

No issues here either. 16.04, 45.8.0.

---

### Post by michael239 on 2017-04-26
Hi SeijiSensei.
 That’s a meal an Ubuntu novice would have to digest first :D.

 But meanwhile I tried and deleted my account and then re-created it, still using the same settings. Result : The account WORKS again. Whatever caused the error I haven’t the foggiest. Stranger things have happened.
 Thanks to all for your contributions. This thread can be closed.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2017-04-26
Good to hear. Threads aren't closed when solved. Just mark thread as 'solved' from Thread Tools at the top right of the page (or follow link in my signature).

---

### Post by lisati on 2017-04-26
Thunderbird is often able to make an educated guess as to the appropriate settings for an account you are setting up for the first time. It is possible that the settings chosen by Thunderbird in this instance were actually the correct settings.
> **michael239 said:**
> This thread can be closed.

Only forum staff can close threads. The preferred method of indicating that the issue has been solved is to use the "Mark thread solved" option of the "Thread tools" drop-down menu near the top of the thread.

---

