---
title: ".deb issues..."
date: 2009-03-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sc00bz on 2009-03-30
I am new to ubuntu and linux in general for that matter. I am running into a problem with a particular .deb. I haven't had this problem yet so maybe yall could help me...


the pkg is located on my desktop so from the terminal i have tried:

sudo dpkg -i <filename>.deb
sudo dpkg -i /home/<my username>/desktop/<filename>.deb

I've even tried 
cd /home/<my username>/desktop
sudo dpkg -i <filename>.deb


However, I keep getting this:

dpkg: error processing /home/<my username>/desktop/<filename>.deb (--install):
 cannot access archive: No such file or directory
Errors were encountered while processing:
 /home/<my username>/desktop/<filename>.deb

obviously, before someone asks, I used my actual username instead of <my username> and I used the actual file name not <filename>.deb

---

### Post by woppy71 on 2009-03-30
Have you ried using GDebi package installer? If it's not allready installed, you can get it from the Add/remove entry on the aplications menu. That seems to work for me :)

---

### Post by Therion on 2009-03-30
I'm going to get the stupid question out of the way right off the bat...

Have you tried simply double-clicking on the file and seeing if Gdebi would install the package?

Gdebi is the default package manager in Ubuntu, so... It's installed.

---

### Post by sc00bz on 2009-03-30
yeah I have it,.. I'm just trying to learn ubuntu's terminal a little better and hoping I can see what to do in this situation via terminal instead of a specialised app. Thanks though!

---

### Post by kanikilu on 2009-03-30
> **sc00bz said:**
> yeah I have it,.. I'm just trying to learn ubuntu's terminal a little better and hoping I can see what to do in this situation via terminal instead of a specialised app. Thanks though! You can do it from the terminal: ```
sudo gdebi package
```

---

### Post by sgosnell on 2009-03-30
You appear to be using the wrong directory.  Your desktop is named Desktop, not desktop.  Case matters in Linux, thus Desktop and desktop are not the same things.

---

### Post by sc00bz on 2009-03-30
> **sgosnell said:**
> You appear to be using the wrong directory.  Your desktop is named Desktop, not desktop.  Case matters in Linux, thus Desktop and desktop are not the same things.

ahhh gotcha. Thanks!

---

