---
title: "Ubu12.04 change format (date/)time in top bar"
date: 2012-05-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ndhertubu on 2012-05-15
Ubuntu 12.04: in top bar at the right the time is displayed as 01:11 PM
Clicking this ans selecting Date and Time settings opens windows "System Settings"
choosing "Date and Time" gives you the choice between  ( ) 24 hour of ( ) AM/PM
 
1. If I choose (*) 24 hour, the "example" format show 13:12
but after leaving that screen, nothing is changed in the top bar ...
How to solve this?
 
2. Also in Ubu 11.04 one could also display Day-of-week, Month, Day-of-Month
in top bar. How to do this in Ubuntu 12.04 ??

---

### Post by kanikilu on 2012-05-16
That's weird - when I do as you suggest and right-click on the time in the panel and go to settings, I get the options and results that you are expecting. 24hr time works, and there are checkboxes for day of week, etc. 

However, when I run ```
gksu gnome-control-center
``` from the terminal and then go to Date & Time, I get a completely different screen. Also the 24hr time option doesn't make a difference, and there are no checkboxes for the day of week.

Taking a wild guess here, but are you maybe running as root or something?  If so, try running gnome-control-center as a regular user...??

---

### Post by poumtatalia on 2012-05-16
Same problem as [ndhertubu]("http://ubuntuforums.org/member.php?u=1068385") here.
The date on the top bar shows "10.59 PM" though the option in the "date and time" settings says "24 hours".
Could that be because I'm on gnome classic?

---

### Post by maja_z on 2012-06-15
bump! I've got the same problem! Any fixes about?

---

### Post by valvegrid on 2012-06-15
Mine is showing as it should in 24 hour format, I did a clean install, I wonder if that's something to do with it? I can't remember selecting 24 hour format during the install procedure and I did it twice because I messed things up and both times it was in 24 hour format.

---

### Post by kanikilu on 2012-06-15
> **maja_z said:**
> bump! I've got the same problem! Any fixes about? Are you running Gnome Classic like poumtatalia? Since I last posted on this topic, I installed Gnome Classic, but don't use it daily. When I saw this thread come up again, I logged into classic and sure enough, I see the same problem.

There is a probably-related bug filed against indicator-datetime, with a proposed workaround: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/964492](https://bugs.launchpad.net/bugs/964492)

I don't intend to use Classic permanently, so I didn't try the workaround.

And another related bug against indicator-applet: [https://bugs.launchpad.net/indicator-applet/+bug/973451](https://bugs.launchpad.net/indicator-applet/+bug/973451)

In fact, a Google search brings up a lot of relevant hits (bugs, askubuntu and forum threads, etc.):

[https://www.google.com/search?q=ubuntu+gnome+classic+can%27t+change+time+and+date+preferences](https://www.google.com/search?q=ubuntu+gnome+classic+can%27t+change+time+and+date+preferences)

---

### Post by lauribuntu on 2012-06-25
I too have a similar problem; clean 12.04 x86 install on my x60x lenevo notebook. I want to change from 24 hour to 12 hour clock format.  I am running Gnome classic.
Workaround mentioned above:
*****************************************************
1. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the clock in the panel and select  "Remove". This deletes ALL the default items in the Panel, by deleting  the "Indicator Applet Complete".
2. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the Panel and select "Add to Panel". Select "Indicator Applet Session"
3. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the Panel and select "Add to Panel". Select "User Menu"
4. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the Panel and select "Add to Panel". Select "Clock"
5. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the Panel and select "Add to Panel". Select "Indicator Applet"
 The clock should now show the custom formatting.
*******************************************************

This does not work for me as step 2 does not appear as an option to 'add to panel' only 'indicator applet complete' is the choice I have. 

This gives me the unchangeable 24hr format clock. (Note, I have tried to change the clock settings via systems settings > time&date...this makes no difference, tried logging in out, restarting, etc.)

Now If I delete 'indicator applet complete' and then add individual clock, shutdown button, etc I can't have a battery indicator at ALL!! (Which I need as it's a battery powered laptop) - this gives me the 12hr clock I want.

 This is another bug I believe with 12.04 that you can't have a seperate battery icon on the panel.

Very frustrating! Any idea's out there??

Thanks

L.

---

### Post by ndhertubu on 2012-07-18
I found that, if you switch to Unity desktop, change the (date)/time format in
top bar, it remains OK after login-out/log-in in Unity, 
and if you now switch back to GNOME Classic, it now also displays the changed format now ...

---

### Post by heyup on 2012-08-11
> **lauribuntu said:**
> 
Workaround mentioned above:
1. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the clock in the panel and select  "Remove". This deletes ALL the default items in the Panel, by deleting  the "Indicator Applet Complete".
2. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the Panel and select "Add to Panel". Select "Indicator Applet Session"
3. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the Panel and select "Add to Panel". Select "User Menu"
4. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the Panel and select "Add to Panel". Select "Clock"
5. Winkey-Alt-Rightclick on the Panel and select "Add to Panel". Select "Indicator Applet"
 The clock should now show the custom formatting.


This workaround worked for me. Need to first install indicator-applet-session and indicator-applet if not already installed.

---

### Post by sienile on 2012-08-11
Not sure if this is everyone's problem, but I had the same issue as well as other changes being reverted on reboot. My problem was a corrupted (and fresh) install. A reinstall cleared everything up.

---

### Post by andog on 2012-11-22
I had broken symlinks in /usr/share/zoneinfo

```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall tzdata 

```

fixed the availability of timezones for me

---

