---
title: "Change user of Apache2"
date: 2011-03-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-04
I am having dificulting with www-data as the user for apache2.   I would like to change the user to my desktop user so that I can limit access to one unknown users. 
 
I am also having problems with my wordpress website and the permalink settings.  
 
Can someone tell me which file I should look at modifing and what I need to modify?
 
Thanks,
 
Spindler

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-03-04
what is the issue you are having what are you not able to do

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-04
Well  Specifically  I am attempting to fix my wordpress install.    I recently had to reload Ubuntu because everything crashed due to a large increase in website traffic.  I thinnk I attracted some hackers.
 
I have had some problems with the file and director permission and I have most of the permissions set correctly however I am still having the following two problems.
 
1.  FTP  from within wordpress does not work... So wordpress cannot update the website.
2. Wordpress can only display the home page of my site but none of the other 320 pages. 
 
This is directly related to www-data access.
 
Several months ago when I first set my website up some one told me how to change the user name of Apache2.  This solved my problem.  However, I forgot ow to do this.
 
So again I need to learn how to change the apache2  user and anything else that should be changed so that I can use my desktop user. 
 
Hope this clearifies my issues.
 
Spindler

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-03-05
assuming apache2 is using /var/www
sudo chown www-data /var/www
sudo chown www-data /var/www/* #(may not be needed with previous command)
if you are wondering you can change the location in this file:
/etc/apache2/sites-available/default

i put myself under group access in /var/www
i can view any file i put in /var/www (and sub folders) as well as any file www-data put there

i have 8 directories, 42 files working from /var/www ([this app](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1519201&page=11))

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-05
I do not want to change the owner of the directories. I know everyone in the forum is saying this but I beieve there is a better way. 
 
I am willing to change the group.  How do I change the group?    Which part of the string is the group and which one is the user.
 
user: group        Is this correct?

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-03-05
i tryed setting the group to www-data but had issues
i did it with nautilus
gksu nautilus
i have done some really backwards stuff to get it working myself (like using a ntfs partition)

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-05
I am still having problems.
 
I am going to refresh my understanding of the situation and provide you with more background. 
 
What I am doing is storing my website in the home directory  under a "Desktop User".
 
I have a wordpress website. 
 
Apache2 is pointing to the home directory and when I look for the website I can see the first or home page of the wordpress website.  
 
I changed the ownership of the directories and files inside the USER directory  to the following
 
directories  drwxr-xr-r-x  USER:www-data    <directory name>
 
most files   -rw-r--r--       USER:www-data   <file name>      
 
The issues
 
I can see the home page of the website but I cannot get access to the other webpages.   These pages are generated by the wordpress software as an output so there are no files on the server that represent each page.  It is a dynamic site.
 
Also I cannot update the modules of wordpress using the FTP feature of the wordpress software.   Typically when wordpress can make a connection then the site will work.
 
So it is clear to me that something is wrong with the perimission setting that allow wordpress to write to MySQL database or generate the output files.
 
I thought this was a permission issue.  I am not so sure now.  I really do not know what is wrong now.   Maybe the "Desktop USER" does not have sufficent permission.
 
Any ideas?
 
Spindler

---

### Post by pqwoerituytrueiwoq on 2011-03-05
i would change the owner and give my self access via group permissions
[img]http://i53.tinypic.com/2v11cet.png[/img]

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-05
OK so I attempted to solve my problem by changing the user and group to www-data.  I have acheaved partial success. 
 
I am now able to update the plugins from within Wordpress. This is good. At least I know that wordpress as the permission now to update files. Some of them anyway. I still cannot load pictures into the directory using wordpress. .....However this is not my biggest problem.
 
 
I am still not able to see all of the website pages of the website. This is a critical issue since my website is esentually down right now.     Any other ideas  what the problem could be?

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-05
Someone on the wordpress forum suggested I look at if the mod-rewrite was installed when I reloaded Ubuntu.
 
I did not do this and I checked the phpinfo.php file and it is not listed.
 
How do I install mod_rewrite?

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-05
I found the commnads
 
sudo a2enmod rewrite
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 reload
sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
 
Thanks
 
Spindler

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-05
My site is up again.   :)
 
Thank you every one.
 
:popcorn:

---

