---
title: "10.10 is amazing"
date: 2011-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by camelface on 2011-04-29
Hi, I am a newb. I do not do any programming and I just profit from other people's work when I download ubuntu and use it freely. 

I just wanted to say, as I see that there is a new version of Ubuntu, that version 10.10 is/was amazing. I did not encounter many bugs. The version before, which was the LTS Lucid Lynx, gave me so many problems and little bugs. I was disappointed since it was an LTS and my version before was more stable. 

But as I say, the Maverick release was great, it fixed everything. And now, with 11.04 available, I am reluctant to upgrade but at the same time I want to see what the new one looks like!

I hear of the new unity desktop. It seems like quite a radical change. Is it?

---

### Post by oopsie on 2011-04-29
Honestly, there seems to be a few big bugs in 11.04 judging by the posts I've been reading here. I've suffered from a couple of bugs myself since I went with 11.04 yesterday. Nothing too critical, but annoying. Hope they get fixed soon.

So in my opinion, you should stick with 10.10 for a few months if you're happy with it.

As for unity, I couldn't say. I've never used it.

---

### Post by sg1efc on 2011-04-29
I was used to the old Gnome desktop layout in 10.10.  Had everything set up the way I like it and am very used to it.  While the new Unity desktop looks neat, it really is not what I like.  Not into flashy stuff really, just need the best and most secure operating system that I can get, and Ubuntu being free... well, who can argue?  LoL  :P

So I selected my login name at system start up, then down at the middle bottom of the login screen I changed to Gnome Classic.  :)

---

