---
title: "Grub2 config woes"
date: 2011-07-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mudster on 2011-07-16
I seem to have got myself in a mess after changing the boot order in Natty Narwhal (it's an XP/Ubuntu dual boot), which worked fine until a recent Ubuntu update. It now boots into Memtest and has set the default as "4" instead of "0". I've tried to change it back, but I think I've messed up the config file somehow as Ubuntu now refused to shut down from the OS and I have to do a hard reset. I have a Boot_Info_Script but being a noobie don't know what's what. Any answers or suggestion will be much appreciated.

---

### Post by mudster on 2011-07-16
I was wondering whether running Boot Repair to reinstall the bootloader would iron out any errors. Is this a wise move. I'm sorry, but I'm at the bottom of a steep learning curve with Ubuntu and I need to sort this out.

---

### Post by Ad@m on 2011-07-16
How did you edit your grub settings?

If you could explain in detail, this will allow us to see where you went wrong and make a better assessment of your current position.

---

### Post by mudster on 2011-07-16
well since I did it a good few days ago I'm not entirely sure of how I did it, but I've a idea that I might have changed the grub.cfg file and from XP "4" to Ubuntu "0". The thing is since the update the default is "4" gain and that boots into Memtest.

---

### Post by Dave_L on 2011-07-16
This will rebuild grub.cfg:

```
sudo update-grub
```

---

### Post by mudster on 2011-07-16
what I can't understand is when I run [COLOR=#ff0000][COLOR=Black]*sudo gedit /etc/default/grub *it has my default as "0" but boot script tell me it's "4":
# DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE
#
# It is automatically generated by grub-mkconfig using templates
# from /etc/grub.d and settings from /etc/default/grub
#

### BEGIN /etc/grub.d/00_header ###
if [ -s $prefix/grubenv ]; then
  set have_grubenv=true
  load_env
fi
set default="4"
if [ "${prev_saved_entry}" ]; then
  set saved_entry="${prev_saved_entry}"
  save_env saved_entry
  set prev_saved_entry=
  save_env prev_saved_entry
  set boot_once=true
fi
[/COLOR][/COLOR]

---

### Post by mudster on 2011-07-16
> **Dave_L said:**
> This will rebuild grub.cfg:

```
sudo update-grub
```

This worked! Thanks:) [I]

Thinks: So much to learn /sigh[/I]

---

