---
title: "9.04 UNR on a EEE901 wanting to Hibernate"
date: 2009-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by tomsimmons on 2009-05-19
Folks

It is my understanding from reading around the forum that you can't hibernate without having a swap file.

Further more, it is suggested that having a swap file on a SSD drive is not a great idea because of the wear and tear on the drive.

When I originally installed I took the defaults, that created a swap, but hibernation failed - can't recall the message, but I'm sure the swap was smaller than the 1Gb of RAM.  With the help of some folks on here I removed the swap to stop the wear and tear.

The problem is I would really like to be able to hibernate, but don't really want the swap partition and the excess work on the SSD, and don't really want to give up over 2GB of SSD to it (I plan on upgrading the RAM from 1 to 2 GB).


So my questions are:

Is a swap needed for hibernation?

Is it possible to create the swap on an SD card?  

What would happen if that card was removed and then replaced, while the machine was running, would the machine still mount it correctly and allow hibernation?

If it's not possible to put it on an SD card, could I create a swap on the SSD that is used for hibernation, but turn off the swapping useage for the general running of OS?

Thanks for any help you can give.


Tom

---

### Post by tomsimmons on 2009-05-27
OK, to answer a couple of these myself...

> **tomsimmons said:**
> Is a swap needed for hibernation?
Yes according to the majority of info I can find, and it needs to be bigger than your RAM - obviously.

> **tomsimmons said:**
> Is it possible to create the swap on an SD card?

Yes, I have one there, I can only assume it's working ok because I don't get any errors and there is a message during boot saying something about swap followed by OK

> **tomsimmons said:**
> If it's not possible to put it on an SD card, could I create a swap on the SSD that is used for hibernation, but turn off the swapping useage for the general running of OS?

I have just found, and sadly lost again, a post about doing just this.  Seems you set the swapiness to 0.

So that leaves...

> **tomsimmons said:**
> What would happen if that card was removed and then replaced, while the machine was running, would the machine still mount it correctly and allow hibernation?

However, having reinstalled with custom defined partitions and created the sway as 2GB on a 4GB class 6 SD card, I still can't Hibernate, I get a mile of errors, which seem to be about writing to the card, at work and haven't got them to hand so can't post them.


Tom

---

