---
title: "8.04 compiz crash"
date: 2008-09-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-03
Hi all.
This is a last-ditch effort to get my 8.04 extreme os working.

I have an nvidia GeForce 8800GT graphics card, and I am having much trouble with the system crashing. 
I thought it may have been an issue with the system wanting to sleep or go to screensver. I then disabled all power saving options and screensavers, which stopped the system crashing after starting the screensaver, but then other problems...

The system crashes at the moment when i am watching videos. I have tried VLC and totem and both cause the system to crash. 
I have read in other posts that similar things happen when people are using firefox 3, but i havn't been able to get my network working consistantly so i havn't had that problem yet.

I have looked over the system logs and this is what i have found around the time of the crash:```

Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125745] Pid: 0, comm: swapper Tainted: P 2.6.24-19-generic #1
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125766] [__report_bad_irq+0x24/0x80] __report_bad_irq+0x24/0x80
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125779] [note_interrupt+0x27b/0x2c0] note_interrupt+0x27b/0x2c0
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125790] [handle_IRQ_event+0x30/0x60] handle_IRQ_event+0x30/0x60
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125799] [handle_fasteoi_irq+0x86/0xe0] handle_fasteoi_irq+0x86/0xe0
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125808] [do_IRQ+0x3b/0x70] do_IRQ+0x3b/0x70
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125817] [common_interrupt+0x23/0x30] common_interrupt+0x23/0x30
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125828] [native_safe_halt+0x2/0x10] native_safe_halt+0x2/0x10
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125838] [<f88670c0>] acpi_safe_halt+0x1c/0x29 [processor]
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125850] [<f8867129>] acpi_idle_enter_c1+0x5c/0x64 [processor]
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125861] [cpuidle_idle_call+0x7c/0xb0] cpuidle_idle_call+0x7c/0xb0
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125870] [cpu_idle+0x45/0xd0] cpu_idle+0x45/0xd0
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125877] [start_kernel+0x31f/0x3b0] start_kernel+0x31f/0x3b0
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125885] [unknown_bootoption+0x0/0x1e0] unknown_bootoption+0x0/0x1e0
Aug 26 11:36:05 NatsDesktop kernel: [ 2263.125896] =======================
Aug 26 11:37:36 NatsDesktop syslogd 1.5.0#1ubuntu1: restart.
```

If you look at the first line there, i had an error happen again and the comm: was comm: compiz.real (same for the rest of it, except the pid and timing of course).

The compiz crash the went through the steps of report_bad_irq, note_interrupt, handle_IRQ_event, handle_fasteio_irq, do_IRQ, irq_exit, smp_apic_timer_interrupt and common_interrupt.

Does anyone have any ideas as to why the compiz.real is coming up as tainted?

Thanks all :)

---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-03
sorry. BUMP

---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-04
bump

---

### Post by Sycron on 2008-09-04
Hmm are you using the restricted drivers ?
There are in System-->Administration-->Hardware Drives.

---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-04
> **Sycron said:**
> Hmm are you using the restricted drivers ?
There are in System-->Administration-->Hardware Drives.

I have tried the restricted drivers, but i had the same issues. Others have told me that because that didn't work that i should try installing the driver from the nvidia website (the newest 8 series linux x86 driver).

I am at the moment using the newest one, but i am still having issues. I am currently writing this on the problem machine, which i have had running for a while at the moment, but i haven't tried to open any videos, or leave the computer standing idle long enough to do anything like try screensavers (which are disabled anyway...). I have been running amarok for a while, so it doesn't seem like a media problem as such, but i am still suspicious of video and the graphics card.

may be worth noting that i also have compiz effects going at the moment, and still no crash...

---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-04
this is sort of a bump, with a little update.
just left my computer alone for a bit and it crashed again (not the usual crash though, normally the system freezes, but this time it went black...)

I checked the messages error log and this time it was Xorg that crashed.

Does anyone know what causes so many things to become 'Tainted'?

That line is the first to appear in the error logs at the time of each of the crashes, just sometimes it is different processes.

Please, anyone have any feedback? i am a little frustrated and disappointed at the coverage on this point, i have seen many mentions of this line in error logs posted in other threads, but no-one knows about it or has said anything...

---

### Post by kdwillia on 2008-09-04
It seems like there could be a hardware issue.   Do you have any parts on hand to change them and see if the issues stay or go away.   Why not boot with a LiveCD and let the system sit and see if it crashes.   If it does, then you can bet that you got some hardware that is not working.

---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-10
Hi all.
So, after digging around a bit, i reinstalled 8.04 again to see if there were any problems.
Running off the liveCD there were no problems, but i couldn't install/activate  the nvidia driver until i installed the OS to my HDD.
I installed the OS, then tried it out for a day before installing the nvidia driver, no crashes!.
However, as soon as i went System-->Administration-->Hardware Drives and activated/installed that driver, it started crashing again.
I then uninstalled the driver and tried crashing it again, no crash. I then tried downloading the newest driver from the nvidia website, installed it, and it started crashing again.

I noticed in my original xorg.conf file that the graphics card was marked as a 'Configured Device', but nothing about nvidia there. Once i installed the nvidia driver and had it change xorg.conf, it had my monitor down as 'Unknown' for various things, but it did have my graphics card down as nvidia finally. (I apologise that i can't upload them now, i am away from my computer at the moment).

I will try to get these files before the computer crashes and i'll upload them tonight, but does this sound like the culprit, if the nvidia installer is corrupting the xorg.conf?

---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-11
hi all.

this is my orgiinal xorg file before i try the driver update:
> # xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
EndSection



And this is the xorg.conf file once i have installed the driver.
> # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Thu Jul 17 18:39:19 PDT 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
    RgbPath         "/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/rgb"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
    VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection



2 things i am worried about is, in the files section, the rgbpath specified does not exist on my machine, and second the monitor vendor and model aren't detected.

Ant ideas?

---

### Post by Trail on 2008-09-11
The kernel becomes 'tainted' when a non-GPL piece of code is linked against it. In other words, you are using proprietary graphics drivers which are closed source, and the kernel development team has no control over what it does and cannot fix bugs. So, the kernel is marked as 'tainted' and is like saying "Hey, you want to use closed-source stuff, fine. But from now on it's not my fault if something crashes so don't seek help from me"

---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-11
Hmm, yeah, cause i have been getting that tainted message, and i am getting it for a number of things like compiz.real, xorg etc. So does this mean i just give up on using nvidia graphics card with ubuntu?

---

### Post by Trail on 2008-09-11
Nah, not really. Everyone I know, including my 3 PCs are running `tainted' kernels, without problems. That message does not denote any error, it is just informational.

I can't imagine what might be causing that error, though.

You can try the Xorg logs (/var/log/xorg*) and see if you find anything weird. Or you can revert to the 'nv' driver for a while, and if it doesn't crash, it might be faulty drivers (try a newer one from nvidia's site, or an older one if you're using a beta driver). Or if you get similar crashes on Windows as well, it might be a faulty hardware issue.

---

### Post by Sycron on 2008-09-11
I've used compiz fusion alot and on different computers and no problems...

---

### Post by ntbutler on 2008-09-11
Hmm, yeah, its just weird how many people are having trouble with nvidia and 8.04. I think i may just give in and pay someone to do it for me, such a disappointment...

---

