---
title: "10.04 from scratch (fresh install) ..."
date: 2010-06-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Skipopis on 2010-06-09
Hi, I  have installed 10.04 from  scratch (fresh install) and I am  unable to change the default  option of grub using the keyboard. while booting please help.

---

### Post by SlidingHorn on 2010-06-09
once it loads ubuntu (which it should - it's usually listed 1st), can you use your keyboard then?

---

### Post by Skipopis on 2010-06-10
no, thats the problem it wont let me choose any option but the default, arrow keys dont move the highlighter.

---

### Post by psych1610 on 2010-06-10
Are you using a wireless keyboard or bluetooth keyboard or something? I had that same problem with my logitech wireless keyboard.

A flashed bios helped for a while, but it stopped working again.

I upgraded to kernel 2.6.34 to fix another problem and the keyboard started working again at the grub screen. Been working alright for a week or two now. There are instructions on how to do that here on the forums. Of course, the usual, you may break your computer warnings apply :)

Good luck! This was frustrating as all heck for me!

---

### Post by LiquidMeson on 2010-06-10
Sound like your computer bio's doesn't like usb, try messing around with the bio -usb options.

This is of course assuming that restarting and not pressing any keys dosen't boot into Ubuntu.

Simpler option to this would be to try a fresh install again, however make sure you have **format entire drive** checked. That way you won't have to play with grub at all?
{You could also try running the UbuntuCD and opening up the hard drive under places, and trying to change grub so it auto boots.?
I'd rather not point you to this slightly confusing link, but this might help with the grub part.
[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/RecoveringUbuntuAfterInstallingWindows)}

---

### Post by Skipopis on 2010-06-10
yes, I am using a wireless Logitech keyboard. Thank-you for your reply's will let you know how things workout.


Thanx again.



Ron

---

### Post by linuxman94 on 2010-06-10
I have a Logitech wireless keyboard + mouse set and I had the same exact problem when using USB.  Luckily the reciever could be connected to PS/2 so that is what worked for me.

---

### Post by Skipopis on 2010-06-10
ok so I also have a wired keyboard and mouse, I plugged that in booted and was able to move the highlighter. I clicked on my other partition and pressed enter then got press any key, I hit the space bar then got the partition option page again. This is funn. I have not attempted to change grub yet. 




Thank-you 




Ron

---

