---
title: "18.04 Uses RAM for swap?"
date: 2018-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by casesam on 2018-06-01
Hi All,
I just built a new system with 128GB of RAM. I installed 18.04 and let the installation partition things automatically. 
After installation I noticed that no swap partition was created. But when I run top, I see that 2gb of swap shows up and 126gb of memory shows up (not 128gb)

I understand that with this much ram swap is not really needed, and I have read that Ubuntu no longer creates a swap by default. 

I am just wondering, is this typical for some of the RAM to be allocated to swap? Will those 2gb of RAM/swap be treated any differently than the other 126gb? 

Finally, should I just leave this as is?

Thanks in advance!

---

### Post by oldos2er on 2018-06-01
From the [release notes]("https://wiki.ubuntu.com/BionicBeaver/ReleaseNotes"): "For new installs, a **swap file** will be used by default instead of a swap partition"

---

### Post by sp40140 on 2018-06-01
Like the post above said.
For past few versions of Ubuntu, the default behavior of the installer is to just create a swap file and not to create a dedicated partition for it.
The swap file sits on the hard drive, so your ram doesn't go to 126 GB from 128 because of 2 GB swap file. Your ram stays 128GB.

However, with 128 GB you don't need to concern yourself with swap at all.
Swap was created in the time past when systems didn't have lots of ram (1GB). In current days, your should never run out of ram (unless you are in enterprise server space and even then you have some badly written applications).

---

### Post by casesam on 2018-06-01
Thanks a lot! This makes sense to me. 
So then, is there an obvious explanation why 128GB of ram only shows as 126GB on htop? 
Is it for a similar reason that a 128GB hard drive does not actually give you 128GB of space?

---

### Post by deadflowr on 2018-06-01
Similar in that they both set a certain amount for reserved.
You might see what
```
dmesg | grep "Memory:"
```
shows.

One obvious place where that reserved memory will be is graphics cards.
Integrated gpus require some of the system memory be allocated to it.

---

