---
title: "11.04 Only runs in FailsafeX graphics Mode"
date: 2011-05-03
forum: General Help
---

### Post by spandon on 2011-05-03
I have a machine that will only run Ubuntu 11.04 utilising faisafeX mode from the Recovery Menu.
the machine freezes up within 10 seconds of logging in using Unity or classic modes.
[B]I am using an ATI Radeon 96 series graphic card.
[/B]
Rather than going through the Recovery Mode to start the machine from the menu = **is their any commands I can use via the terminal to start the machine using Failsafex mode from the menu?**
If so, what are the commands?
Thanks
Don

---

### Post by etomar on 2011-05-05
I'm having the same problem. And I also have to go through recovery mode to make it boot at all into FailsafeX graphics Mode. It worked fine yesterday, but now I can only boot into that FailsafeX graphics Mode. For me, when trying to boot normally I get up to a purple screen and then the screen just goes black. If it matters, this happened after I tried (unsuccessfully) to install my graphics tablet.

---

### Post by n0_m0r3_pa1n on 2011-06-01
I'm fu***n pissed off with this. Yesterday eveerything was ok, today I Start my laptop and the screen goes purple then the laptop restarts. I'm gonna use windows 7 and throw my laptop from the window and everything will be ok.. I'm gonna try to reinstall the video drivers for the video card.. then  we'll see.. I'm using ATI Radeon Mobility 4570...

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-06-01
Roll it back to 10.10 and don't upgrade again to 11.04 until they get all the bugs out first. 

Here is a nice guide to help you get things back to normal again:

[http://cinderbox.net/2010/12/23/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-10-10-aka-maverick-meerkat/](http://cinderbox.net/2010/12/23/to-do-list-after-installing-ubuntu-10-10-aka-maverick-meerkat/)

---

