---
title: "15.10 upgrade to nowhere."
date: 2015-10-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bob120 on 2015-10-28
Why does these ongoing updates stop other functions? I cannot be specific, did the card reader quit the last update, or this update, or 3 updates ago?
 
 The oldest problem is ongoing since I burned the 15.04 disc, the first, second or third time, can't remember, the old  are discarded.  So I have the SAME 15.04 disc loaded into 2 separate computers. Both have had updates, different times as they are not always used together. 

The first computer, HP has been reloaded many times. If malfunction start I reinstall the OS as there is no manual to help, but this is not the topic. If I open "ubuntu software" there is no search box within, open the  dropdown, search is listed, dark shade, all other listings are pale, hit search, nothing happens except search is no longer dark, it is now pale. Awhile back someone said get a new copy but that is not correct, read on.
The second computer is ACER, OS loaded from the SAME disc as HP. Surprise there is a searchbox! It actually works too!

Please explain why the same disc has no search for HP then has it in ACER? The disc is removed after each install, is in a case, NOT in a machine. 

Has the OS disc updated somehow? How to tell?

UPDATE : I allowed update from 15.04 to 15.10 yesterday on HP , NOT the ACER. I hoped that would fix several issues, nope still got no search in software. I cannot get Sd cards to work before or after this upgrade, don't ask when it quit as I do not use photos everyday, it worked last week, is that 2, 3 or 4 updates ago. 

Is Firefox the problem? Is there a better browser to use? Better means a stable OS month to month.

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-10-29
As you have experienced upgrades are risky and should be avoided. Better to do a fresh install of 15.10 and use it for as long as it's supported. 

When support runs out then a fresh install of 16.04.

---

### Post by bob120 on 2015-10-29
Thanks for your help M. I have yet to look at your link on updates, but I will do so.

I got suckered by the "promotion materials" for 15.04 or 15.10, something like "easy to use for beginners". Then one finds out there is no instructions on how to do things. By things I mean the instruction one types into a terminal to cause a program to be available for my use, unexpected but doable, except for the help that instructs in developer language. I just had a thought: It is not developer language at all, is it bored members acting like they understand the language/slang then instruct off their take  of the story, resulting in senseless garble?  Half of the advise I ask for is wrong, probably works on the version they are running, don't know the difference? 
  
 Also finding the programs that I know are useful, my copy has no search box in "software", yet the same Xubuntu15-04 disc loaded a search box in "software" on another computer. So one goes to a community and asks for help...where is the the folks causing all the errors and the need to update every few days? One notify email a day latter from a kind member telling me all is not what it seems.

 I see why it is free, hard to advertise "for sale" if the current disc expires in several days. These update notifiers say "security" reasons, list what will install, again in developer jargon. Should the beginner ignore them? Often the update is for firefox, about 46MB and Ubuntu is in lesser amounts but more than one listed, up to 3-4mb. ACER was off until yesterday, updated 186mb yesterday, so both as shot now?

 Everyone I have spoke with locally went back to windows, that is more than a few as I advertised for a factory disc, if available locally. Everyone.

In fairness it is my fault for not checking the disc was "correct" (cheksum?), I could not understand the instruction as it is in developer slang/lingo, no buttons match the words used in the instruction. "Easy to use for beginners"...right.  


Now it is down to burning a new disc every update because update does not work as intended, or is it intended?

The only Win7 I have left is a copy made from a laptop that I discarded , 3 recovery discs on DVD-R. Were can I find instruct on how to go back to win7? I tried this on ACER but the options to select on startup are removed. How to get the disc to boot? Also will the laptop version work on my desktop. ACER had run win7 from a university copy that is expired. Both computers vame with XPhome, other XPpro. Any suggestions?

Situations that a beginner does not need. Do you think this outfit would change "easy to use for beginners" to "not for beginners", add "learn developer lingo first" as the byline?

---

### Post by mörgæs on 2015-10-30
Good to see that you read the links in my signature. 
Seeing that you have computers from the XP era then the Old Hardware page and Lubuntu is probably the more relevant to you.

Post again when you have tried the install.

---

