---
title: "How can I set the ramdisk size on Dapper 6.06?"
date: 2006-12-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ajlnh on 2006-12-11
I need to increase the default ramdisk size.  The general linux documentation I've found for this tells me it can be done by setting ramdisk_size = XXX in /etc/grub.conf.  However, my Dapper 6.06 install does not have this file.  I've been looking for where to configure the ramdisk size for use with the /dev/ram[0-16] ramdisks.  The only Ubuntu grub configuration file I could find was /boot/grub/menu.lst which did not contain a ramdisk_size entry.  I added one of my own but it didn't have the desired effect.  I have a machine with a lot of memory and want a 1 gigabyte ramdisk for some special uses.  Is there documentation anywhere for how to configure and utilize a ramdisk in Ubuntu linux?
	The only documentation I've found is about ramdisks for special Ubuntu-on-a-thumb-drive setups or having to do with running Ubuntu without installing.  I've already got Ubuntu installed and want a large ramdisk to be allocated every time I boot the system.

Andrew

---

### Post by technodigifreak on 2006-12-11
> **ajlnh said:**
> I need to increase the default ramdisk size.  The general linux documentation I've found for this tells me it can be done by setting ramdisk_size = XXX in /etc/grub.conf.  However, my Dapper 6.06 install does not have this file.  I've been looking for where to configure the ramdisk size for use with the /dev/ram[0-16] ramdisks.  The only Ubuntu grub configuration file I could find was /boot/grub/menu.lst which did not contain a ramdisk_size entry.  I added one of my own but it didn't have the desired effect.  I have a machine with a lot of memory and want a 1 gigabyte ramdisk for some special uses.  Is there documentation anywhere for how to configure and utilize a ramdisk in Ubuntu linux?
	The only documentation I've found is about ramdisks for special Ubuntu-on-a-thumb-drive setups or having to do with running Ubuntu without installing.  I've already got Ubuntu installed and want a large ramdisk to be allocated every time I boot the system.

Andrew

Excellent question.  I've been looking to answer a similar question, but have found no answer.  Has anybody come across this before?

---

### Post by K.Mandla on 2006-12-11
I've used this howto to set up a ramdisk for Firefox.

[http://www.vanemery.com/Linux/Ramdisk/ramdisk.html](http://www.vanemery.com/Linux/Ramdisk/ramdisk.html)

It's a very easy thing to accomplish. I don't bother keeping Firefox on it, though ... the speed increase wasn't what I hoped for.

---

### Post by ajlnh on 2006-12-11
Sorry to say the link you cited [http://www.vanemery.com/Linux/Ramdisk/ramdisk.html](http://www.vanemery.com/Linux/Ramdisk/ramdisk.html)
instructs you to edit /etc/grub.conf in order to change the size of the ramdisk.  This file doesn't exist on an Ubuntu 6.06 install.  I can't find grub.conf in order to change the ramdisk size appropriately.  The issue isn't how to use a ramdisk, which is covered adequately in other online documentation.  The issue is _How to change the default ramdisk size in Ubuntu_?  What conf file do we use if /etc/grub.conf doesn't exist?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2006-12-11
reading that howto the file looks like /boot/grub/menu.lst

---

### Post by ajlnh on 2006-12-12
OK, I got this to work this morning.  It turns out you can use /boot/grub/menu.lst to configure the ramdisk size.  You have to add "ramdisk_size=XXX" at the end of the line which begins "kernel ..." the same as in the example from [http://www.vanemery.com/Linux/Ramdisk/ramdisk.html](http://www.vanemery.com/Linux/Ramdisk/ramdisk.html)

This was on my desktop machine.  I'm anxious to see if the case will be the same when I install Ubuntu Server.  Does the server install also have a menu.lst file?  If it does and its used in the same way I should be all set.

---

### Post by msundman on 2007-02-28
> **ajlnh said:**
> you can use /boot/grub/menu.lst to configure the ramdisk size.  You have to add "ramdisk_size=XXX" at the end of the line which begins "kernel ..."
You can, but you shouldn't, because those lines are autogenerated, so what you write there will be removed when you update grub (or something else that runs update-grub).
Instead you should put the "ramdisk_size=*size-in-KiB*" at the end of the line that begins "# kopt", e.g. something like this:
```
# kopt=root=LABEL=sys ro ramdisk_size=4096
```
Then you run "sudo update-grub" which will generate the "kernel..."-lines.

---

### Post by ofek on 2007-02-28
grub.conf = menu.lst 
Grub devs for some reason changed a while ago.

---

### Post by matburton on 2007-03-14
Hey,

I thought this thread was excellent so I thought I'd post what I ended up doing with my ram disk.

What I use the ram disk for:
- Saving temporary files that I don't what in the future e.g. downloads.
- A small area for a read write Samba share.
- A guest account.

The first is an obviously about keeping my file system manageable. The second is good because I can share files quickly with my house mates across the network.

The last is the real killer. I share my flat and friends and house mates are always asking to use my computer. They log in to sites and save their passwords, they download crap and occasionally think its funny to change the desktop background or something.

So here's how I set up my ram disk:

I made the following change to the end of a line in grubs menu.lst:
```

# kopt=root=UUID=53ae96f1-2a68-470f-85d4-b6d269ac19b8 ro ramdisk_size=65536

```
for a 64MB default ram disk size. Although this isn't really necessary under Edgy because I believe the default already is 64MB.

I then made a guest account, changed the settings as necessary and used the following:
```

tar -cpf guest_home.tar guest

```
in the /home directory to archive the guests home with permissions intact.

Next I made a script in /etc/init.d called mount-ramdisk.sh with the following in it:
```

mke2fs -q -m 0 /dev/ram0
mount /dev/ram0 /media/Ram
chmod 777 /media/Ram
rm -r /media/Ram/lost+found
mkdir /media/Ram/Shared
chmod 777 /media/Ram/Shared
mkdir /media/Ram/.temphomes
tar -xpf /home/guest_home.tar -C /media/Ram/.temphomes

```
to format the ram, mount it, change the permissions on the mount, remove the lost+found folder (I can't see that being useful on such a small and volatile file system) create a Shared folder and change permissions on it and then create a hidden directory to store the guest home directory and extract the archive with permissions intact.

I made this script executable and then made a relative symbolic link to it in /etc/rc2.d:
```

ln -s ../init.d/mount-ramdisk.sh S09mountram

```
and made sure that it was executable.

Then I created a directory to mount the ram disk in /media called Ram

A restart gave me the ram disk!

I then changed the guest home directory to be un-tared version in the ram disk and deleted the original.

Lastly I set Samba to share the Shared folder with the following change afterwards to the samba config file /etc/samba/smb.conf:
```

[Ram]
path = /media/Ram/Shared
comment = Read and Write to Mats Ram
available = yes
browsable = yes
public = yes
writable = yes
force create mode = 0666
force directory mode = 0666

```
so as to make sure that anything people created I could manipulate without having to sudo and change permissions.

And lastly if someone wanted they can change the login screen so that it excludes the guest account from the list if its not often used.

And there we have it, don't think I've missed anything.

A guest account where changes don't matter and a shared space with an implicit limit. BTW hibernating as you would expect does not remove the contents of the ram disk.

I'm pretty new to Ubuntu and Linux (just a few weeks) so any comments, suggestions or corrections would be appreciated! ;)

Hope this is useful to someone!

---

