---
title: "10.10 &amp; 10.04 Changes in Mesa/3d ?"
date: 2011-01-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by WitchCraft on 2011-01-09
What changes have been made in Mesa/3d drivers + xorg from 9.10 to 10.04 ? 
I tried now on 10.10, and the same bug remains.

On my laptop, 3d doesn't work correctly anymore...
OpenArena & UrbanTerror crash Xorg.

I needed to download the OpenArena source from openarena.ws (the apt-get source repository's version doesn't compile btw., apt-get build-dep I did) and needed to compile OpenArena myself, until it halfway worked...
(still, the mouse blocks when one tries to move position (keyboard) and view (mouse) simultaniously).

This has now been simultaniously on 2 laptops, so it's not a hardware failure, and it's not an OpenArena bug, because it worked before from the same source. 

00:02.0 VGA compatible controller: Intel Corporation Mobile **[B]915GM**[/B]/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 03)
00:02.1 Display controller: Intel Corporation Mobile 915GM/GMS/910GML Express Graphics Controller (rev 03)

---

### Post by WitchCraft on 2011-01-13
bump.

Found the UrbanTerror sourcecode and compiled it.

As long as I am in spectator mode, it works, more or less (some pictures are wrong).

When I leave spectator mode, the screen only shows the lowest 1 cm of the rendering on the top 1cm of the screen, and everything is completely green...
WTF is this ?

---

### Post by WitchCraft on 2011-01-23
bump.

---

### Post by sandy8925 on 2011-01-23
You're graphics card there is a bit old, but I have a laptop with the same card and it was able to play openarena ok. Maybe you should try disabling Compiz? That will definitely speed up the game and might solve your problems.

Also, install the mesa-utils package and do:
glxinfo|less

You will get info about the hardware acceleration. Check if direct rendering is supported and check OpenGL version etc.

About the mouse and keyboard thing, if you're using the touchpad to play, then it might be that the touchpad is disabled during typing. You can change this in the Mouse or Keyboard options (forgot which one)

---

### Post by WitchCraft on 2011-04-28
> **sandy8925 said:**
> 
Maybe you should try disabling Compiz? That will definitely speed up the game and might solve your problems.

Also, install the mesa-utils package and do:
glxinfo|less

You will get info about the hardware acceleration. Check if direct rendering is supported and check OpenGL version etc.

About the mouse and keyboard thing, if you're using the touchpad to play, then it might be that the touchpad is disabled during typing. You can change this in the Mouse or Keyboard options (forgot which one)

Yes it's a bit old, but it always was more than good enough for OpenArena and UrbanTerror.

Well, the funny thing about glxinfo is it outputs direct rendering -> yes, which is not necessarely correct, as I know from earlier experiences with mesa.

Yes I'm using the touchpad, and I just tried the settings:
```

System -> Preferences -> Mouse -> Touchpad -> Untick Disable Touchpad while typing

```
wow that was a mean surprise...
now at least OpenArena works fine ;-)))

One down, one left to go:


Now the only thing to figure out is why in UrbanTerror I get a black screen as soon as I join the game (but it works fine as spectator)... seems to not draw at the correct position.

---

