---
title: "9.10 Not Running Startup Scripts"
date: 2010-06-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BillRebey on 2010-06-08
I've installed ssh, as well as a script of my own, in /etc/init.d, and I've added both of them to the startup sequence (I've tried both the "rcconf" graphical utility, and "update-rc.d").  The installation utilities seem to be working just fine and report success, and everything seems to be where it should be, but on reboot, my startup scripts don't start up. 

I have these scripts running on MANY machines withOUT the GDM/Gnome Desktop running.  On this ONE machine, though, I have Gnome running.  

Is there some fundamental difference between the GUI Desktop's startup sequence and the text-mode-only startup sequence?  What am I dong wrong??

THANKS!

---

### Post by Brandon Williams on 2010-06-09
The startup sequence on a machine running a graphical login manager is fundamentally the same as one without, except for the startup items specifically related to the GUI environment. Are you certain that this is the only difference between the machines where you can run the script and the machines where you can't?

Within a term, get to a root prompt with 'sudo -i'. From there, run the init.d script with the start argument (i.e. if the script is called foo, run '/etc/init.d/foo start'). Does it work? If not, what are the errors?

---

### Post by BillRebey on 2010-06-09
Yes, the scripts run fine by themselves as "sudo /etc/init.d/xxxx" or from a root login.  I run them routinely by hand;  they just won't start up on boot!

sudo "update-rc XXXX defaults" appears to work fine, and the proper links appear to be in /etc/rc.2, and so on.  I'm baffled.

Any ideas what I might be looking for?

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-06-09
Are you using full path names for commands?
Startup scripts don't run with the same environment settings as a normal user.

Would you be able to post your script?

---

### Post by Naggobot on 2010-06-13
For a few past hours I have been trying to get a script to run using run levels and update-rc.d on lucid. While banging my head whit this matter I stumbled upon the Upstart which Ubuntu uses to start and stop services at bootup. 

If you have problems with update-rc.d and runlevels I recommend checking out the [upstart]("http://upstart.ubuntu.com/getting-started.html"). All in all it took only 15-30 minutes to configure up and clean up old rc links and scripts and I got it working in the first try. Upstart has been around since 6.10 so it works in 9.10 also.

---

