---
title: ".thumbnails directory"
date: 2008-10-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by jsvidyad on 2008-10-05
Hi!!

    I have a hidden directory in my home directory named .thumbnails . It has lots of tiny images in it. What is the purpose of having this directory?? Can I safely delete it in order to save some space??

---

### Post by Shazaam on 2008-10-05
Image cache. Yes you can delete them. How big is your .thumbnails folder? I never clean mine and it's only 29mb.

---

### Post by cariboo on 2008-10-05
Have a look ath this:

[https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/27345](https://answers.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+question/27345)

You will probably have to create an account, which you will need to report bugs.

Jim

---

### Post by jsvidyad on 2008-10-06
Thanks for the replies!!! My problem is solved.

---

### Post by salariua on 2008-12-10
> **Shazaam said:**
> Image cache. Yes you can delete them. How big is your .thumbnails folder? I never clean mine and it's only 29mb.

How about ~1G.....:!: I need to delete them all. I was using the Disk Usage Analyzer and the result was about 1G.

---

### Post by blucalvin on 2010-09-01
Hi,

I just found out about this directory today and it has got 300MB of thumbnails! The thing is, it stores the thumbnails of everything! Mind you, EVERYTHING!!! Of all the photos that has ever gone through your computer, of all the tiny images and pics that ever went in through your browser while surfing the net! You can almost use it as a substitute for the browsing history of your computer. Even if the corresponding photos were deleted from your system or even if your entire browsing history has been cleared, these things still remain!!! So be sure to keep an eye on that folder.:)

Cheers!!

---

### Post by goltoof on 2010-10-05
> **blucalvin said:**
> Hi,
You can almost use it as a substitute for the browsing history of your computer. So be sure to keep an eye on that folder.:)



Which begs the question, how do I change the settings of this folder so that it store less images, or stores nothing at all?  

For me the folder is "~/.bkl-thumbnails" in Lucid.

Are there any other default folders like this in Ubuntu?  Folders that store files or information of what has been accessed, deleted, downloaded or worked with?  Besides Firefox, of course.

---

### Post by jongkind on 2010-10-05
The system will purge itself thumbnails.
The cache is cleared if there is an excess of the maximum age and miniatures or the maximum cache size; This configuration with gconf-editor in:

    * /desktop/gnome/thumbnail_cache/max_size (maximum size cache)
    * /desktop/gnome/thumbnail_cache/max_age (maximum age of a thumbnail)

[http://en.kioskea.net/faq/2725-clearing-the-thumbnail-cache-on-linux]("http://en.kioskea.net/faq/2725-clearing-the-thumbnail-cache-on-linux")

---

