---
title: "15.04 Bug Opens File Manger after Right Click+Empty Trash"
date: 2015-05-10
forum: General Help
---

### Post by eival on 2015-05-10
right away right clicking on the trash bin and emptying it opens is the biggest culprit.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-05-10
known bug
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1445595](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1445595)

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2015-05-10
just open Nautilus, go to Edit > Preferences > Behaviour and check  include a delete option. Not sure what the point is for trash anyway.  When I delete I want it gone, not to be moved to a hidden folder. Since a  popup window will ask for confirmation before delete it is not likely  to delete something by mistake. IMO trash is a really stupid and  unnecessary feature. In thunar (file manager for xfce) the option to  bypass trash is actually activated by default.

---

### Post by eival on 2015-05-11
> **mc4man said:**
> known bug
[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1445595](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/unity/+bug/1445595)

> **monkeybrain20122 said:**
> just open Nautilus, go to Edit > Preferences > Behaviour and check  include a delete option. Not sure what the point is for trash anyway.  When I delete I want it gone, not to be moved to a hidden folder. Since a  popup window will ask for confirmation before delete it is not likely  to delete something by mistake. IMO trash is a really stupid and  unnecessary feature. In thunar (file manager for xfce) the option to  bypass trash is actually activated by default.

both of those arent what im getting, im getting nautilus opening at the Home directory, there is no verification

and turning it off didnt fix it either

---

### Post by mc4man on 2015-05-11
> **eival said:**
> both of those arent what im getting, im getting nautilus opening at the Home directory, there is no verification

and turning it off didnt fix it either

That bug is what you're seeing, how you choose to interpret isn't too relevant

---

