---
title: "cups-pdf failed to print a PS file to PDF"
date: 2007-06-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Flying_OE on 2007-06-01
I've been trying to install cups-pdf since Edgy, but haven't succeeded completely up till the Feisty installation I'm using now.

Curiously enough, the problem occurs only when I'm trying to print a PostScript file (generated by the latest universal AdobePS driver on Windows) from KGhostView using cups-pdf. The error message can be seen from the "error.png" attachment. Even stranger is that I also tried the ps2pdf command line, and it could actually convert the PostScript files properly into PDF most of the time. (I'll explain "most of the time" below.) According to the "Print to PDF" virtual printer's settings, it is actually point to ps2pdf! So why does the ps2pdf command line work while cups-pdf printer fails?

To help diagnosis, I've also put the test PostScript file (test.ps, generated using AdobePS driver on WinXP), the erroneous PDF generated by cups-pdf (test_error.pdf), and the PDF generated by ps2pdf (test_proper.pdf) in the attachment as cups-pdf_error.tar.bz2 for your review.

P.S. What I meant by "most of the time" above is because I do have a PostScript that has 100+ pages actually caused ps2pdf to stack overflow after than 86th page. But never mind, since that's only a rare case since the document was pretty graphics intensive.

P.S. (2) I've also posted this to Kubuntu forum, since I'm not sure whether this is KGhostView-specific or general to all CUPS installation on Feisty. Sorry for double posting.

---

### Post by MoLE on 2007-06-09
I'm not sure if the cups-pdf howto on [the wiki]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/PDFPrinting") is of any use to you?

---

