---
title: "19.10 How to get a sensible font set (instead of Thai, Indian etc.)"
date: 2020-01-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-24
My Lubuntu installation is stable and runs excellently. It's based on an .iso download from [www.lubuntu.me]("http://www.lubuntu.me")
So far so good.

But it's infested with Thai/Indian/Bangladesh fonts, we're talking 100s here. Of Western fonts, 4...5 are available.

1: how do I get rid of the unwanted fonts?
2: how do I install fonts that are useful (to me)?

The Thai fonts fill my font selection in LibreOffice Writer and make work inpossible.

Additional information: language is set to US-English, locale is Berlin (Germany)

Any idea is highly appreciated. Thank You.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2020-01-24
The manual has some detail on changing default fonts - [https://manual.lubuntu.me/stable/3/3.2/3.2.2/appearance.html?highlight=fonts](https://manual.lubuntu.me/stable/3/3.2/3.2.2/appearance.html?highlight=fonts)

To install fonts, I'd opt for `aptitude` myself (terminal in interactive mode), but if GUI tool was wanted, I'd opt for `muon` package manager which is found in the System tools (on my 20.04 anyway). There is a "Fonts" category, though with so many you may want to search.

`aptitude` & `muon` allow you to remove packages too; ie. remove fonts.  They, like most debian/ubuntu tools work on packages though so you'll remove all fonts contained within the package.

I have before removed single files (ie. the font files themselves), if you do this - don't forget to rebuild the cache (`fc-cache`) as programs don't explore directories, but the cached list of fonts available. When packages are removed this cache will automatically be updated.  FYI: 

*I didn't actually 'rm' my font files, I really would 'mv' them to a new location where they weren't found so as to be cached; allowing me to return them quickly should something go wrong & I decided the removal was a bad idea.*

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-01-24
You can install Font Manager.
Choose "Manage" from upper left.
Choose "All" in sidebar.
In upper-right frame, uncheck those you don't want to see. This doesn't remove them, just disables them - much quicker.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-25
"Font Manager" is unfortunately a tool for the Gnome desktop. Mine is LXQt (Lubuntu 19.10).
Muon is my default package manager, but removing the fonts from here made my Writer inoperable, the fonts and style dropdowns were empty after that.
I wonder why I'm bombarded with Thai fonts when my locale and language are Western.

I'll check out "aptitude".

Thanks.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-01-25
Font Manager does work on Lubuntu 19.10. I installed from Muon package manager and used it to disable (not remove) many LibreOffice Writer fonts. They now don't show up in the font chooser list. Maybe you removed some basic system fonts that Lubuntu depends on?

Did you notice that the fonts you have used appear at the top of the list so you don't have to scroll through to find them again?

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-25
OK, tried Aptitude. Not my cup of tea. 
Font-Manager works fine under LXQt (though the window management is somewhat lacking), but honestly I can just disable almost every font there, leaving me with less than a handful of Western fonts.

Why on earth does Lubuntu install all these Asian fonts on my machine? It makes no sense at all.

Guiverc, Thank You for the tip about fc-cache, this was extremely valuable.

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-25
Dennis N, Thank You very much for your support. Font Manager will work for me, but my goal is to have 100 Western fonts and 0 Asian fonts. Right now I have 100+ Asian fonts and 4 Western fonts. I'm going a lttle bit nuts...

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2020-01-25
You may know this already, but you don't need to use the package manager to 'install' a font. There may be fonts you like that are not in the repository. All you do is put the font file into **~/.local/share/fonts** for your personal favorites. Applications will look there for fonts to use. (You can also use /usr/share/fonts, but need sudo to get them in there. That location gives all users access to the font) Another location is ~/.fonts, but that is depricated. Still, many use it without a problem.

You can remove a font you 'installed' this way by simply deleting the file. But if package manager installed a font, you should also remove it with package manager.

Use Google to search for "free fonts".

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-01-25
Thanks, Dennis N.
I reverted to brute force, since the font offerings on the web are overwhelming.
I deleted the unwanted Sanskrit/Thai/whatever fonts from /usr/share/fonts/truetype and was left with zilch.

I then copied the fonts from my Win 10 machine and sorted them into directories, one for each font. In the end I copied these directories into /usr/share/fonts/truetype
and ran "sudo fc-cache".
My OpenOffice now has the fonts I need (Arial, Times, Verdana, Wingdings etc.), the Asian fonts are gone and everything is perfect.

Thanks for your help :)

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2020-02-03
An update to the previous post:
The subdirectories + fonts in **/usr/share/fonts/truetype** should all have **root:root** ownership and **755** access rights. This will make the fonts available to all users.

---

