---
title: "10.04 - 1 minute boot time"
date: 2010-05-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by oshirowanen on 2010-05-19
Dear Community,

Why is my computer taking around a minute to boot?  10.04 for me is slower at booting than 8.04 is.  10.04 is taking about 10 seconds to get to the login screen, then almost a minute after that before it gets to a fully loaded desktop.

Is this a known bug?

---

### Post by philinux on 2010-05-19
If you're machine has no floppy drive try disabling it in your bios.

---

### Post by oshirowanen on 2010-05-19
It has no floppy disk drive.  I have gone into the bios and the floppy disk drive is already disabled.

---

### Post by sartic on 2010-05-19
From time to time i see errors on boot after that i see pauses.
Never had faster boot than 35s (karmic had 40s ok, tweaked).

---

### Post by oshirowanen on 2010-05-19
Is it possible to see a log of everything that happens after the username and password have been typed in?

---

### Post by dumblebee100 on 2010-05-19
may be the problem with fsck I mean the bad sectors in hdd 
next may be some problem with some modules not loading or some file is missing which is required during boot 
next this is graphic drivers ..

why dont you read the lucid known bugs and workarounds and there may be solutions for your problems 
I solved my graphics problem by reading it ..now everything works fine and for me it takes around 20-25 seconds .I never counted it though

---

### Post by oshirowanen on 2010-05-19
> **dumblebee100 said:**
> may be the problem with fsck I mean the bad sectors in hdd

I have tried installing it on a VM and I get the same problem on another computer.

> **dumblebee100 said:**
> next may be some problem with some modules not loading or some file is missing which is required during boot

How do I check if this is the case?

> **dumblebee100 said:**
> next this is graphic drivers ..

why dont you read the lucid known bugs and workarounds and there may be solutions for your problems 
I solved my graphics problem by reading it ..now everything works fine and for me it takes around 20-25 seconds .I never counted it though

I can see the plymouth screen properly, and I do not get a black screen.  From the moment I press the power button on my computer, it takes about 10 seconds to get to the login screen with the plymouth animation.  However, after I have typed in the username and password, it just displays the desktop background for about 1 minute, eventually it displays the icons on the desktop, then finally it displays the top and bottom menu bars.

So something is wrong after I have typed in the username and password.  For some reason it takes a long time to display the desktop.

---

### Post by hugo_koopmans on 2010-10-30
HI,

Try bootchart to get an overview of what is happening at boot time.

I have lucid 10.04 and 45 sec boot time

hugo

---

