---
title: "9.10 Web pages not loading"
date: 2010-04-18
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Shadow of Chaos on 2010-04-18
Well, after wrestling with several problems over the past few days of switching over to a portable version of Linux 9.10 (I'm running a Live USB created using Lili USB), and deciding between the UNR or the Desktop i386 releases (I eventually went with UNR because i386 will not load on my netbook and ends up corrupting itself), I now find myself with the interesting problem that Firefox will no longer load webpages.

I'm using a wireless connection, and it worked about 4 hours ago, but doesn't any longer. It registers that it is connected (The network icon displays the connected information), but the webpages themselves will not load (And I don't know if any other web based application functions- I only bothered to check firefox).

 And I know the connection itself is not to blame because I'm using it right now to post this message (Off of Windows 7).

Any help that can be given would be appreciated. Except for these problems that come up I'm loving Ubuntu, and intend to use it inbetween classes and such.

EDIT:

No internet applications work, and the router does assign me an IP address while in Ubuntu. Also, the speed of the "Server not found" message indicates that it's not even trying to connect.

---

### Post by Shadow of Chaos on 2010-04-18
Not to bump pointlessly, but I would hope that someone would at least look at the topic before it goes off the first page.

---

### Post by Shadow of Chaos on 2010-04-18
Bumping again. While just reinstalling the whole OS is an option, I'd rather not if it can be avoided.

---

### Post by lovinglinux on 2010-04-18
Please don't bump so fast. Is not considered polite to do this. Wait at least a day to bump. Besides, you will need a lot of bumps to keep it on the first page (btw I don't even read it. I got your message on the rss feed).

Disable ipv6 on Firefox Preferences, by setting the network.dns.disableIPv6 preference to true.

   1. Type about:config in the address bar, press Enter.
   2. Find network.dns.disableIPv6 in the list.
   3. Right-click -> Toggle.
   4. Restart your Mozilla application and try again.

You can also disable ipv6 on the system. See [How to disable IPv6 in Karmic Koala]("http://wojox.homelinux.net/?p=4")

More info at [Firefox optimization and troubleshooting thread](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1193567)

---

