---
title: "7.10 Document Viewer Default Height Too Big"
date: 2007-10-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rscott5 on 2007-10-30
Hey everyone,

So I'm running Ubuntu 7.10 and it runs great! The one little thing that has been bugging me is that whenever I open a .pdf file using Document Viewer, it opens fine but the height of the window is much larger than the size of my screen so I end up with the window running off the bottom of my viewable area. It isn't a big problem, more of just a pain because every time I have to resize the window by right clicking on the window frame since I cannot access the bottom of the window. This never used to happen in Feisty.

Is there a way that I can change the settings of Document Viewer so that it doesn't do that and instead opens by default to a height that is equal to or smaller than my screen height? Thanks!

---

### Post by rscott5 on 2007-10-31
bump.

No ideas anyones?

---

### Post by rscott5 on 2007-11-01
One last bump. Help please!

---

### Post by kostkon on 2007-11-01
Strange problem you have here. You could try to delete the *ev-metadata.xml* file that resides in
```
/home/youusername/.gnome2/evince
```

*Evince* is the name of the *Document Viewer* application in *Ubuntu* (and in *Gnome* in general).

In this file, *Evince* saves the window size and the level of zoom (and other things) for every document you have opened, in order the next time you open it again to use the same configuration.

Thus, I suspect that something went wrong with this file and if you just delete it(you can keep a copy of it in another place if you want, just in case) your problem may be solved.

Just open your *Home* Folder, go to the *View* menu option and select *View Hidden Files*. Then find the *.gnome2* hidden folder and inside it you will find the *evince* folder with the file in question. Make a copy of it and then delete it from this folder.

The next time you open *Evince* it will create a fresh one.

I hope this will solve you problem :)

---

### Post by BeardlessForeigner on 2007-12-08
thanks for the tip kostkon, I was having the same problem and it was even more annoying because I'm using fluxbox and the resizing corner was off the screen when evince started. But deleting the ev-metadata.xml file did the trick. Hopefully it won't just go back to this peculiar behavior after using it for a bit.

---

### Post by Tony_uk on 2008-01-20
I had a similiar problem with opening PDF files.
Deleting this file fixed my problem.
Many thnaks.

---

### Post by nemo1211 on 2008-01-24
I had the same annoying problem-- this fix worked perfectly! Thanks!

---

### Post by Ingenium on 2008-02-12
Thanks. Deleting the folder worked for me too. However, anytime I resize an evince window, the next time I open a pdf it does it again.

---

### Post by Ingenium on 2008-02-13
Actually, if I try to resize the window from the corner increasing the length and width equally (or proportionally), it remembers that size and seems to work. When I just resize it to optimize viewing the PDF, which is usually just making the window wider, it tries to keep that width and get a proportional height the next time a PDF is opened. 

I noticed in the xml file that the only things are the sizes and ratios for individual files that were opened. I assume it just picks the most recent one as the default. Is there any way to make it just ignore the ratio part and instead remember absolute size?

---

### Post by chiefmanyrabbitguteat on 2008-03-11
I was running into the same problem. I could delete the file described above, but the bug would always re-appear later.  So what I did, was open the file in gedit, and erase all of the information in it.  changed the file permissions, setting myself as a read-only user of the file.  It doesn't remember how it opened previously, but it doesn't extend below the bottom of the screen any more.

---

