---
title: "18.10 sometimes when I power off It sits at the Ubuntu 5 dots for a minute and a half"
date: 2018-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-12-16
18.10 sometimes when I power off It sits at the Ubuntu 5 dots for a minute and a half.
How can I tell what it's doing?
(top bar / right click / power button / power off )

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2018-12-16
"minute and a half" is the time systemd waits to stop a service that isn't stopping properly.

You might be able to see what service it is:

edit [FONT=Courier New]/etc/default/grub[/FONT]
remove [FONT=Courier New]quiet[/FONT] and [FONT=Courier New]splash[/FONT] from [FONT=Courier New]GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT[/FONT]

To apply this change, run -
```
sudo update-grub
```
Then reboot.

Now, next time you see this minute and a half delay, do you see any related information on the screen?

---

### Post by jeremy31 on 2018-12-16
If you press ESC the Ubuntu splash screen should disappear so you can see the messages

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-12-16
@halogen2 I used grub customizer to comment out that line (so I'll remember!) and added a new line w/o quiet and splash, so we'll see what I find!

@jeremy31 I believe you are right.

Thanks to both! Marked solved.

---

### Post by Kris_M on 2018-12-17
Okay, so that was easy. It was waiting for the printer. CUPS. It I unplug the USB, it waits a few seconds and then powers off.

edit: don't know circumstances; I just printed something and then powered off and it powered off fine.

Oh, well, I don't really care as I know it was CUPS and I can unplug USB to get it to power off immediately.

Thanks all!!!

---

