---
title: ".jar files will not execute as programs."
date: 2008-06-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by [MoG] Didier on 2008-06-26
Hello,

     I'm trying to make a .jar file (maptool-1.3.b32.jar) execute it's program. I have JRE 6 installed. I've tried going to the terminal and typing:

>  java -jar Desktop/maptool-1.3.b32.jar 

in response I get the following output:

> Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: net/rptools/lib/AppEventListener
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.defineClass1(Native Method)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.defineClass(ClassLoader.java:637)
	at java.security.SecureClassLoader.defineClass(SecureClassLoader.java:142)
	at java.net.URLClassLoader.defineClass(URLClassLoader.java:277)
	at java.net.URLClassLoader.access$000(URLClassLoader.java:73)
	at java.net.URLClassLoader$1.run(URLClassLoader.java:212)
	at java.security.AccessController.doPrivileged(Native Method)
	at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(URLClassLoader.java:205)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:323)
	at sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader.loadClass(Launcher.java:294)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:268)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClassInternal(ClassLoader.java:336)
	at net.rptools.maptool.client.LaunchInstructions.main(LaunchInstructions.java:48)
Caused by: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: net.rptools.lib.AppEventListener
	at java.net.URLClassLoader$1.run(URLClassLoader.java:217)
	at java.security.AccessController.doPrivileged(Native Method)
	at java.net.URLClassLoader.findClass(URLClassLoader.java:205)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:323)
	at sun.misc.Launcher$AppClassLoader.loadClass(Launcher.java:294)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClass(ClassLoader.java:268)
	at java.lang.ClassLoader.loadClassInternal(ClassLoader.java:336)
	... 13 more


In windows, simply double clicking on a .jar file just makes it execute. I want to fix my problem and have the behavior of jar files in Ubuntu be identical to how they act in windows. 

Please be aware that I'm a fairly new Ubuntu user and I have absolutely 0 programming knowledge. If you could post some walkthrough type instructions I would be grateful. Thank you.

---

### Post by manfer on 2008-06-26
That error is because you don't have all the program package. Not only the jar file needed, there's a /lib folder too in the package and that folder should contain classes needed for the program to work.

Look in Windows in maptool folder you have the jar, and a /lib folder, and some other files with the jar (three batch files, an sh script and a README).

So get the whole maptool-1.3.b32 from Windows and copy it to linux, or download it again and unzip it, if you want it working. Then go to the folder map-tools and run the program with:

prompt:~$ **java -Xmx256M -jar maptool-*.jar run**

Or you could run it with the sh script, but first you would have to make it executable.

If /lib folder is there, report again to try to guess if the problem is a different one.

---

