---
title: "10.04 - Evolution - close by its self"
date: 2010-05-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by linden940 on 2010-05-07
is anyone else having this problem? I dont know how long it has been happing but started to make a note that I HAD left it up/running and I;ll be gone for a few and come back and its closed...but now (the last 3days) I have SEEN it JUST randomly close by its self so I know its not my own mind playing tricks on me....anyone know the cause on that? I'm at a lose and dont have a clue

---

### Post by Spiritof76 on 2010-05-07
> **linden940 said:**
> is anyone else having this problem? I dont know how long it has been happing but started to make a note that I HAD left it up/running and I;ll be gone for a few and come back and its closed...but now (the last 3days) I have SEEN it JUST randomly close by its self so I know its not my own mind playing tricks on me....anyone know the cause on that? I'm at a lose and dont have a clue

Its happened to me, just before my system lost the ability to expunge data from the junk folder, I reloaded a back up data base and haven't seent it return.

---

### Post by linden940 on 2010-05-07
> **Spiritof76 said:**
> Its happened to me, just before my system lost the ability to expunge data from the junk folder, I reloaded a back up data base and haven't seent it return.

dont want to have to do that.....but ok...so it just anit me

---

### Post by OldGoat58 on 2010-05-07
> **linden940 said:**
> is anyone else having this problem? I dont know how long it has been happing but started to make a note that I HAD left it up/running and I;ll be gone for a few and come back and its closed...but now (the last 3days) I have SEEN it JUST randomly close by its self so I know its not my own mind playing tricks on me....anyone know the cause on that? I'm at a lose and dont have a clue

I'd like to tell you about my experience with this issue but the last time I tried my post was removed and made into a thread of it's own saying I was trying to hijack a thread.  It's not you, it's Lucid Lynx.

Good luck.
Mike
Fairless Hills, PA

](*,)

---

### Post by linden940 on 2010-05-07
> **OldGoat58 said:**
> I'd like to tell you about my experience with this issue but the last time I tried my post was removed and made into a thread of it's own saying I was trying to hijack a thread.  It's not you, it's Lucid Lynx.

Good luck.
Mike
Fairless Hills, PA

](*,)


well u cant just stop on that note!...share what you know so if there is a problem it can be fixed

---

### Post by bstar on 2010-06-03
I am having the same issue! Evolution will randomly close, it may be in the middle of reading emails, sending/receiving, doing nothing, etc. Their does not appear to be any rhyme or reason to it.

Using Ubuntu 10.04 Desktop 64bit, Evolution 2.28.3, (AMD Quad Core, 8gb DD3, SATA). New/Fresh Install.

How would I go about submitting a bug report or giving out more details to correct the issue?

I am attempting to port myself completely to Ubuntu and get away from the MS addiction, am close, just a few more kinks to work out....

Thanks!

---

### Post by cydejsn on 2010-06-11
This is happening to me, too.  Is there a fix for this yet? Thanks.

---

### Post by yogib3ar on 2010-06-11
Just installed 10.04 and ran updates.
and imported the export of evolution from 9.10
Having exactly the same issue, so still no fix??

---

### Post by yogib3ar on 2010-06-11
Found a solution, must still test it for a longer period, but looks okay for now.
Just install a later version of Evolution, the one in 10.04 seems to be buggy.

Use this URL: [http://motersho.com/blog/index.php/2010/05/14/howto-install-evolution-2-30-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx/](http://motersho.com/blog/index.php/2010/05/14/howto-install-evolution-2-30-on-ubuntu-10-04-lucid-lynx/) 
to get updated to 2.30

---

