---
title: "Forcing Refreshrate fullscreen applications UT"
date: 2012-03-30
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MoonSafari on 2012-03-30
Hi there,
After lots of work, I finally got Unreal Tournament to run on my 64bit Ubuntu 11.04 with no delayed sound and it works online! :)
I'm just stuck with one problem which I can't seem to solve, I have a CRT monitor and like to play my FPS in 800x600 at 120Hz. Because I removed by EDID pin, needed to display 120hz in Win7, I'm having trouble getting the right resolutions and so.
I have tried playing around with xrandr and cvs but I'm not sure how to foce my UT to run at 120hz as soon as it enters 800x600. My default desktop is 1600x1200_85.

This is my xorg.conf as it looks at the moment.

>  # nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier     "Monitor0"
        VendorName     "Unknown"
        ModelName      "Unknown"
        HorizSync       30.0 - 110.0
        VertRefresh     50.0 - 150.0
        Option         "DPMS"
        Modeline "1600x1200_85.00"  235.00  1600 1728 1896 2192  1200 1203 1207 1262 -hsync +vsy$
        Modeline "800x600_120.00"   83.00  800 856 936 1072  600 603 607 646 -hsync +vsync
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier     "Screen0"
        Device         "Device0"
        Monitor        "Monitor0"
        DefaultDepth    24
        SubSection "Display"
                Modes      "1600x1200"
                Depth       24
        EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier     "Layout0"
        Screen      0  "Screen0"
        InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
        InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier     "Device0"
        Driver         "nvidia"
        VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
        Option  "NoLogo"        "True"
EndSection

I would like to start my UT and see that it automatically changes to 800x600@120Hz. Anyone care to point me in the right direction? :-)

c2d 6750 / 4gb / 8800gtx / 21" Cornerstone p1500 / ubuntu 11.04 64bit

---

### Post by dino99 on 2012-03-30
so both CRT & graphic card are able to support 120 hz ?

---

### Post by MoonSafari on 2012-03-30
Update; If I set my desktop to 800x600 first, it automatically goes to 120Hz and if I then start my application, it will go to 800x600@120Hz (yay!) But all the windows on the different workspaces get aliened to one 800x600 screen which is unfortunate. And easier ways to do this? :)

---

### Post by MoonSafari on 2012-03-31
After adding it separately to the nvidia driver, it now switches to 120hz with no problem - yay!
I had a lot of problems installing this on my 64bit Ubuntu, needed a lot of 32bit libs and the fixed the sound with padsp.
The last problem I have is that the game itself runs "****". Even though it shows my limited 120 fps stable, it just feels like a 50 fps laggy game. :(

One day I will have smooth UT under linux!

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2012-04-01
just FYI, your eyes are only capable of seeing around 24fps and 'motion blur' is a funny concept as 'blur' actually allows your eyes to see things more clearly (to understand that, you need to know how our brains interpret motion)

basically, anything more than 60Hz, you are wasting your effort, hoping that more frames are present when your optic nerves are 'refreshing' your vision. 'double scan' is an excellent example of how our brains interpret motion, as doubling up on the images (allowing for your brain to see the same image multiple times) actually allows for your brain to interpret motion more clearly

---

### Post by MoonSafari on 2012-04-01
FYI, please don't try to educate me in things you read somewhere. After 10 years of highest level gaming, I think I know what I'm talking about ;) 
There's a reason why all toplevel gamers in FPS still used CRT's for years even after "good" lcd's came out&why there are 120hz lcd's now.

Either way, it's not the problem I am having.

Update on earlier post, every time I reboot, I have to go in the nvidia-settings and change it to 800x600@120hz for a second, only then will UT boot in this mode - else it will go to 800x600@56hz. Weird, can't figure out the problem :)

---

### Post by HiImTye on 2012-04-01
you're right, the entire movie industry are idiots

---

### Post by MoonSafari on 2012-04-01
> **HiImTye said:**
> you're right, the entire movie industry are idiots

Please don't litter my threat with worthless *wrong* ********, thanks.

---

### Post by Junior262133 on 2012-12-24
sorry someone's ignorance ruined the thread, but have you found a solution? I have 120hz working on my pc, but any full screen 3d application will revert back to 60hz. tf2 on steam reverts back to 60 hz, and emulators in full screen do as well. I assume the problem you are having is the same as mine.

---

