---
title: "10.04 bug"
date: 2012-02-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by as2000 on 2012-02-25
Has there been a fix for this? I recently updated my main and now this bug has reared its head. I have tried looking for this on the forums but I am not getting any luck. Here is the bug report"

[https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/563862](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/gnome-power-manager/+bug/563862)

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2012-02-25
If you checked on the bug did it say it was fixed? If not did you do a bug report?

---

### Post by as2000 on 2012-02-25
The bug did not say fixed. Why file a duplicate report?

---

### Post by 3rdalbum on 2012-02-25
Try 12.04, see if the bug still exists (probably doesn't, there have been some massive changes in that system since) and if you're still getting the problem submit a bug against 12.04.

It's quite rare for bugfixes to come to old distros, especially one that's nearly two years old.

---

### Post by as2000 on 2012-02-25
The bug does not appear in 12.04 or 11.10 as they work normally. The bug just appeared when I ran updates about a week ago. I have tried suggestions like: changing usb ports on devices, re-installing gnome power manager etc. It is more of an annoyance than anything else.

---

### Post by dcstar on 2012-02-26
> **as2000 said:**
> The bug did not say fixed.

Then why are you asking here, isn't that plain enough?

---

### Post by as2000 on 2012-02-26
This is a forum to seek help right?

---

### Post by bluexrider on 2012-02-26
There is no "fairy dust", "magic wand" or "spell-casting" done here. This forum cannot FIX the bug. Report the bug again. If it effects YOU, mark it so. Subscribe to the bug to get updates.

---

