---
title: "ubuntu sounds like it loads but nothing on the screen"
date: 2009-04-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
Hello guys and i expect some dolls
    first time trying to fix a linux ubuntu notebook, and in need of some help. i work with windows in my job so am not a total muppet where computers are concerned but, linux is totally new to me and im at a loss with a problem i have 

so let me tell you the story (said in a max bygraves voice)
ubuntu 8.04.1

a user has had a elonex notebook for a year and not used it, she finally dragged it out the cupboard and turned it on. it goes through the motions of turning on, passes the bios screen, startup comes up and the ubuntu logo with the progress bar, progress bar goes from left to right, screen goes blank and you can hear a sound from the notebook (like tom tom drums. thats how it stays, if you hit the escape key you also hear the same sound but nothing on the screen.
looked in the grub been in recovery mode not helped, the rest of the grub menu i didnt want to play with and make matters worse.

that is basically it, i was going to reload ubuntu but could not get the usb pen bootable and i do not have a usb cdrom.

any help much appreciated

thankyou welly muchly):P

---

### Post by jwh400 on 2009-04-04
It sounds like you're getting to the log in screen but the graphics aren't displaying. After you hear the "tom tom drums", blindly type the username, press 'Enter' then type the password and press 'Enter' to see if you can continue to the desktop.

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-04
If you cant get to the desktop can you get to a command prompt with CTRL, ALT & F1

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-04-04
If you boot from the 'Live' CD and try the Live version (running Ubuntu from the disk), do you have the same problem with graphics?

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
first post 
tried blindly logging in but no does not seem to log in 

second post 
yes the ctl/alt/F1 does get me to a command promt and yes it does login in dos format 
it takes me to a command prompt of carol@ubuntu:~$

Third post 
i would if i had a USB harddrive i would try the live cd.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-04-04
You could try downloading 'Ubuntu Netbook Remix' from bottom of this page:

[http://wiki.eeeuser.com/ubuntu_netbook_remix#downloading_necessary_software](http://wiki.eeeuser.com/ubuntu_netbook_remix#downloading_necessary_software)

On another computer, make the boot USB and give it a go. Think Damn Small Linux will boot from USB also and vaguely remember a distro which was intended to live on the USB, not the hard drive.

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
just logged in when at the blank screen, this has logged in and the jungle sounds came through the speakers so i would say that i am most proberbly at the desktop for that user now but still nothing on the screen

if this was windows i would say druver issue, but this is linux does linux have drivers? 
how do you reload them if they do? 
what do wasps really do? sorry forget this last one

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-04
Yes Linux does have drivers.
If you get back to the command prompt with CTRL, ALT & F1 type this once you have logged in:```
sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

```
This may or may not help, but worth a try. Once you have finished reboot.
BTW wasps sting.

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
nope still no go after going through the options when entering the line you put up 

any thing else except a hammer to the keyboard? works with many hp machines :lolflag:

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-04
A hammer also works on wasps, if you are quick enough :smile:
Not sure that will do anything, but worth a try again. Go to the command prompt again & do the following:```
sudo rm/etc/X11/xorg.conf
```
That will remove the xorg.conf file & the system should make another on reboot.
For safety type this first though:```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak
``` This will make a back up of your current file although it is not working.

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
that didnt work either grr

l;ots of xorg.conf files in there but not a xorg.conf only example xorg.conf.xserver

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-04
no xorg.conf? that is strange.
Can you copy this to a text file & save it as xorg.conf:> # nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Mon Nov  3 08:46:46 UTC 2008

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: builtin, VertRefresh source: builtin
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "CRT-0"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 MX 440 with AGP8X"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "nvidia-auto-select @1024x768 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

then get it on to your ubuntu drive in the /etc/X11 folder.

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
ok ran it again and also the previous lines the xorg.conf file is now there but still no go

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-04
Have you tried the Live CD?

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
i would but i am unable to get the usb bootable its not playing ball

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-04
So this machine has no CD drive?
Try this link for instructions on getting the drive bootable with the contents of the CD: [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Installation/FromUSBStick)

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
The rest of the instructions refer to /dev/sdX1, remember to replace X with your device location. 
this makes no sense any clues?

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-04
ok hers where im at 
i now have no hair ive pulled it all out the mrs has a black eye as i threw the laptop at her, and i have handucffed the kids to the back of a loco as they were getting on me nerves other than that my first experience of linux is going well:lolflag:

think i have come to the conclusion i need to reinstall but the notebook will not boot by usb, i have followed the part uto the above post and cant find any sigbn of the usb stick anywhere 

im not going to call it quits tonight and go kick the mrs around the bedroom and then watch the footie hopefull i might be a bit calmer then so if you guys could get me on the right road tomorrow i would be very grateful 

):P

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-04
Are you using a linux machine when trying to make the USB drive bootable?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-04-05
Drop to a terminal and type:

startx

What happens? What message do you get?

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-05
> **kestrel1 said:**
> Are you using a linux machine when trying to make the USB drive bootable?

no vista
but have tried making it boot from the linux terminal but still no go. tried "su" but i dont know the root password, this is something i been trying after searching the web. it says here and there to login the root

startx

results

server is already active for display 0
if this server is no longer running remove /tmp/.0x-lock
and start again

invalid MIT-MAGIC-COOKIE-1 key giving up
xinit: resource temporarily unavailable errno11: unable to connect to server 
xinit: no such process (errno 3)  server error

---

### Post by Sylslay on 2009-04-05
1, Try fix broken packege from recovery mode, than fscheck, then run normal boot from menu, and after "drum" drum,"" switch to ctr+alt+F7 or ctr+alt+f8 or ctr+alt+f9....
some times Xorg chosen wrong output for display, and upgrate graphic driver and reconfigure xorg
2. If dosn't work, just type in terminal "ctr+alt+f1
sudo gdm stop (login manager)
and again
sudo gdm start ,

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-05
> **Sylslay said:**
> 1, Try fix broken packege from recovery mode, than fscheck, then run normal boot from menu, and after "drum" drum,"" switch to ctr+alt+F7 or ctr+alt+f8 or ctr+alt+f9....
some times Xorg chosen wrong output for display, and upgrate graphic driver and reconfigure xorg
2. If dosn't work, just type in terminal "ctr+alt+f1
sudo gdm stop (login manager)
and again
sudo gdm start ,

1 no go still nothing, F7,F8,F9 they change screens F7 is blank F8 gives 6 lines of lext starting ancron, starting scheduler, starting crond, etc all saying OK. F9 is blank screen

2:tried the gdm stop command it says on stop warning gdm already running . aborting
running gdm start gives me the text about choosing another display

how can i update the driver? dont even know where to get them from to be honest never seen linux drivers on my travels fro windows drivers, secondly how can i get the driver onto the laptop when it wont recognise my usb key

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-04-05
It was running fine on this machine before? Probably not driver but setting. 

At the login screen, you have an option to choose the recovery kernel. Choose that and see if it spits any clues. If you are not getting a login screen, press 'esc' repeatedly after boot and you should get some options (the grub menu). Recovery should be the second one down.

At the terminal, you could try:
```

locate  /tmp/.0x-lock
```Then when you've found it, delete it with:
```

 sudo rm /tmp/.0x-lock
```Incidentally, what have you tried to boot the usb? Have you gone into the bios on the laptop and changed it to boot from the dongle? (set USB as first boot device)

```
sudo startx
```

?

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-05
browsed to the tmp location no sign of that file 
locate did not find that file either

tried the sudo startx still no go 

i have tried disabling all startup except the usb and still does not boot to the usb, made usb number one sata number2 and pxe number 3 
still no go 

put the laptop in the shower gave it a shampoo still not working (only kidding, i used lynx ;) )

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-04-05
Hmm. Probably a tweak for a wiser head that knows how to fix your graphics but not I. Will think a bit more about it though.

I'm still curious; was this install working before or was it abandoned? Crash never to be resurrected? If it was working once, then good chance it's something simple. If it was an install that was abandoned because the monitor was incompatible, harder. The fact that you can't get the USB to boot, hardest. A newer version would probably get things up in no time (I stress, probably).

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-05
i have been informed today that yes it was working when her dad first got it, then it was stuck away for a year, and now nowt.
but thanks for your ideas keep em comin i will try anything 
i will badger my work collegues but im sure they are all windows gimps like me and not used or supported linux of any kind :KS

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-05
Why get a machine & stick it in a cupboard for a year?
Have you tried running any machine with a live CD to create a bootable Linux USB drive.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-04-06
> **kestrel1 said:**
> Why get a machine & stick it in a cupboard for a year?
Have you tried running any machine with a live CD to create a bootable Linux USB drive.

Yea, still stumped as to why you can't just make a dongle and boot with that. What is the problem there?

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-06
ok back at work again
spoken to my boss he has had littlwe experience with linux as well but what he has said is when he had a image he got one from the laptop providers as he had problems getting the drivers for the asus he was tasked with building. Anyway he had the same problem could nto boot from a usb dongle, he thinks it maybe as it needs to be made bootable on a linux machine and not windows, anyway he got around it by pullin a crafty and getting a usb dvd rom, hes lettin me borra it for the easter weekend. now back to the point of the drivers, and a image from the laptop company, this laptop i have is a elonex, done a quick scant about and found no drivers, no images booger all

---

### Post by firemaster4076 on 2009-04-06
> **kestrel1 said:**
> Why get a machine & stick it in a cupboard for a year?
Have you tried running any machine with a live CD to create a bootable Linux USB drive.

oh yes very good question and one she has no answer for except they had a windows PC and had no use for it and maybe as it was something they have never seen before it scared the hell of them 

(OMG WHATS THIS IT AINT WINDOWS, QUICKJ THROW IT IN THE CUPBOARD)

Honest dont have a clue on that one, users are a strange breed

---

### Post by kestrel1 on 2009-04-06
They sure are.
I am sure if something doesn't come with Microsoft all over it they think it wont work.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2009-04-06
Well, you might find this of interest then:

[http://danlynch.org/blog/2008/09/elonex-webbook-with-ubuntu/](http://danlynch.org/blog/2008/09/elonex-webbook-with-ubuntu/)

The reviewer seems to think it is a 'bog standard install of Ubuntu 8.04' ... and these:

[http://au.altavista.com/web/results?itag=ody&q=elonex+ubuntu&kgs=0&kls=0](http://au.altavista.com/web/results?itag=ody&q=elonex+ubuntu&kgs=0&kls=0)

I advise you download Ubuntu 8.04 or even Xubuntu which will be zippier, make an iso and install that with the USB CD ROM over the easter break. Have a good play around and see what works best. If it was working okay, I think the kernel is broken rather than any drivers missing. Unless they've been removed, but that is highly unlikely. More likely is they've been tweaked or somehow altered and then can't fix so in the cupboard it goes! Once you get into it a bit more (if) you will realise that with a little knowledge and not much else, you can do some pretty severe damage if you open a terminal and start changing things. If you can't change them back ... 

I think you will have more luck with USB ROM, but remember, you are still going to need to boot from USB so it might not get you too far if you can't boot from a dongle. Might not be able to boot from ROM either.

---

