---
title: "10.10 keystroke/mouse click recognition"
date: 2010-10-26
forum: General Help
---

### Post by scottkmaxwell on 2010-10-26
Just upgraded to 10.10 a week ago, and a new problem has popped up for me.  Searched forums and didn't find a similar issue.  This problem has only occurred since upgrading to 10.10 and I am not running any new software or hardware other than the 10.10 upgrade.  The problem does not appear to be triggered by the running of any specific program.

Mouse and keyboard clicks do not always seem to be registering.  When typing, I often have to press a key several times before it actually types the letter (typing this post has been difficult).  The same thing happens when I use my mouse to click on things.  If I type or click VERY slowly, this seems to help increase keystroke recognition.  It's as if the OS can't handle more than one click or keystroke every half-second or so.

This does not occur instantly on each boot -- something happens and then this problem remains until I reboot -- but the problem does inevitably happen at some point each time I use the computer.

I am an Ubuntu beginner - have been using Ubuntu steadily for a year but don't know how to do too much other than some basics.  I need to fix this or else downgrade to 10.04 because this problem renders Ubuntu almost unusable.

Thoughts on how to tackle this?  Thanks!

---

### Post by scottkmaxwell on 2010-10-31
Anyone?  I'm going to downgrade to 10.04 in a few days if I can't find a solution.

---

### Post by scottkmaxwell on 2010-10-31
Could this be a graphics card issue?  I'm using Radeon X600, and my attempts to try to proprietary driver have failed due to this:

[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Maverick_Installation_Guide#Installing_Proprietary_Drivers_a.k.a._Catalyst.2Ffglrx](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Maverick_Installation_Guide#Installing_Proprietary_Drivers_a.k.a._Catalyst.2Ffglrx)

I'm trying to feel my way through the dark, could use some input.  Thanks!

---

### Post by scottkmaxwell on 2010-11-11
Bump.  Would very much appreciate someone's help and insight.  Thanks.

---

