---
title: ".dmrc- can't login at all"
date: 2008-09-08
forum: General Help
---

### Post by sem1845 on 2008-09-08
This message pops up upon enter username/password:

*User's $HOME/.dmrc file is being ignored. This prevents the default session and language from being saved. File should be owned by the user and have 644 permissions. User's $HOME directory must be owned by user and not writable by other users.*
I click continue logging in and I get a message saying the session lasted fewer than 10 secs. I also get a message about xsessions (I believe is what it says)

I tried logging into safe mode and using the root terminal there tried this:
```
sudo chmod 644 /home/ricardimo/.dmrc
sudo chown ricardisimo /home/ricardisimo/.dmrc
sudo chmod -R 700 /home/ricardisimo
sudo chown -R ricardisimo /home/ricardisimo
```
(I substituted "ricardisimo" for my username)
I still get the same error messages.

---

### Post by pmlxuser on 2008-09-08
see this thread it might help

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=866726](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=866726)

---

### Post by sem1845 on 2008-09-08
I tried everything offered in that thread and still having the same problem. I searched and went through most of the dmrc problem threads and none solved my problem either.

---

### Post by iaculallad on 2008-09-08
How come that it would not work if it's just saying to change the file permission to 644?

```
sudo chmod 700 /home/your_username
sudo chmod 644 /home/your_username/.dmrc
sudo shutdown -r now
```

It's the same with the commands above, but just try, adding the reboot command and see the changes.

---

### Post by sem1845 on 2008-09-08
> **iaculallad said:**
> How come that it would not work if it's just saying to change the file permission to 644?

```
sudo chmod 700 /home/your_username
sudo chmod 644 /home/your_username/.dmrc
sudo shutdown -r now
```

It's the same with the commands above, but just try, adding the reboot command and see the changes.

Didn't work. The second line gave me a file not found error.

I wrote down the Xsession errors if that helps any.This is what it says when I click on view details on the screen that says "Your session lasted fewew than 10 seconds....."

It reads:
"View details (~/.xsesion - error file)
/etc/gdm/Xsession: Beginning session setup
stdin: is not a tty
Can't create dir /root/Desktop
Can't create dir /root/Template
Can't create dir /root/Public..."

Any other ideas guy??

---

### Post by timcredible on 2008-09-08
you can't just change permissions on files in a home directory when you change your UID.  the best solution here is to backup your data (boot with livecd and copy your data off), delete your account and home directory, and then re-add it.  if you want to insist on this method instead, you have to change the X session file permissions in /tmp also, and even then some things won't work right due to file permissions being wrong (you changed everything to 700, which isn't accurate).

---

