---
title: "9.10 won't boot if external HDD is unplugged"
date: 2010-04-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by billy01 on 2010-04-29
When my Western Digital MyBook is plugged into my desktop machine via usb everything works fine. The computer boots up normally to the dual boot screen, and all OS options will boot up normally. However, if I unplug the external hdd (whether that be when the computer is off, or I unmount it and then restart) before I get to the dual boot screen I get an error message informing me that I have incorrect boot media, and to insert and hit any key.

Some background:

I have checked the bios and it is set up to boot from the internal sata hdd as the first boot device, and there are no usb boot devices defined.

Prior to making this a dual boot machine, it ran windows only, and had no issues booting when the external hdd was unplugged.

Thanks,

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-29
When you have an external grub just installs itself to the sda insternal drive unless you use the advanced button to tell it to install to the external.

[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Computer_does_not_boot_without_external_drive](http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/bootinfoscript/index.php?title=Boot_Problems:Computer_does_not_boot_without_external_drive)

---

### Post by kbielefe on 2010-04-29
I'm extrapolating from your description that windows is on your internal drive with linux on your external, using grub as the bootloader?

With grub, the "dual boot menu" is actually stored in a file in your /boot partition, which is usually located on the bootable drive, but doesn't have to be.  This sounds like the case for you.  You probably either want to make your external drive bootable and just direct your bios to boot that drive when you want linux, or make a small /boot partition on your internal hard drive.

---

### Post by billy01 on 2010-04-29
> **kbielefe said:**
> I'm extrapolating from your description that windows is on your internal drive with linux on your external, using grub as the bootloader?

With grub, the "dual boot menu" is actually stored in a file in your /boot partition, which is usually located on the bootable drive, but doesn't have to be.  This sounds like the case for you.  You probably either want to make your external drive bootable and just direct your bios to boot that drive when you want linux, or make a small /boot partition on your internal hard drive.

No, both linux and windows are installed on internal drives. The external drive has nothing but files on it. It is used for storage only. That is what is so baffling about it.

---

### Post by fooman on 2010-04-29
> **billy01 said:**
> However, if I unplug the external hdd (whether that be when the computer is off, or I unmount it and then restart) before I get to the dual boot screen I get an error message informing me that I have incorrect boot media, and to insert and hit any key.


try starting the computer so it boots normally into ubuntu (with external attached apparently?).  once there,  unmount the drive and detach the device from your computer.  then open a terminal and update grub with this command:

```
sudo update-grub 
```

when it completes,  restart and see if it boots without the external attached.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-04-29
So we can confirm everything is installed where you think it is run this with the external plugged in.

Boot Info Script courtesy of forum member meierfra
Page with instructions and download:
[http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/](http://bootinfoscript.sourceforge.net/)
Be sure to highlight and use code tags (# in edit panel) to make it easier to read when you post the results.txt.

---

### Post by billy01 on 2010-04-30
Fixed it. Turned out NOT to be an issue with ubuntu, however I might not have figured that out without fooman and oldfred's help.

I ran the Boot Info Script before and after unmounting and detaching the hdd, and updating grub. I noticed that the device was listed as a boot partition, and I figured that would fix it.

However, when booting up, I still got the same error. That led me to the conclusion that it HAD to be in the bios somewhere, and it was. My boot order was internal hdd, DVD, floppy (yes I actually have one). The problem was that deep in the bios I found that it  was emulating the external hdd as a floppy drive. Doesn't really make sense to me since the floppy was last on the list for boot devices, but regardless it was causing the issue. Once I removed emulation, and the floppy drive from the boot order, it work perfectly.

Again, thank guys for the help in ruling out the OS as the source of the issue.

---

### Post by calvinflash on 2010-05-26
Hello,
What do you do if the external drive is spoilt and cant be used again? You cannot plug and unmount before you switch off.
Yet cant boot into ubuntu becos it cant find the external drive.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-05-26
calvinflash Welcome to the forums.

Your problem does not sound like it is what this thread was about. It may be a hardware problem or something else that other software may fix if the drive can be seen by anything.

You really should start a new thread. This thread is solved so the only one's looking at it are those looking for solutions not those who may be able to help. I cannot help this this. How is drive connected? What error messages do you get etc.

---

### Post by calvinflash on 2010-05-26
Thanks for the quick response!

When the external drive, connected by usb was plugged, i can get into ubuntu with no problems.

The hard drive isn't available now. but since I didnt unmount the external before unplugging it, now if I try to boot into ubuntu, it says it cannot find the external and drops to shell (command prompt).
If I had the external I could just plug it, boot into ubuntu and unmount it, but I dont have it.

---

### Post by oldfred on 2010-05-26
calvinflash - start a new thread and post the boot info script (link above in post #6). Do you have installs on both internal &  external? Yo may just need to reinstall a boot loader on the internal which is now looking for the rest of grub on the exernal.

How to restore the Ubuntu/XP/Vista/7 bootloader (Updated for Ubuntu 9.10)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1014708)

---

