---
title: "10.04: &quot;Movie player&quot; won't open a video CD I made..."
date: 2011-02-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by t0p on 2011-02-02
I used Brasero to make a video CD (VCD) for my friend who wanted a disk of some vids I'd shot of his recently-deceased dog.

When I select the CD, Ubuntu asks if I want to start "Movie Player".  I click yes, totem  starts... then I get the message:

```

**An error occurred.**
Could not open location; you might not have permission to open the file

```I've looked at my permissions, under **System > Administration > Users and Groups** and I can't see where I'm missing a relevant permission.

What am I doing wrong?

**EDIT:** What is up with me today????  It's meant to be **10.04**, **10.04**, not 8.04.

Gah!

**RE-EDIT:**  Please disregard the above **EDIT** - some kind mod/admin edited the thread title for me.  (I guess it's pretty daft of me to ask you all to disregard an **EDIT** that you've already read.  But I've done it anyway.  So disregard, disregard, *disregard*... you are feeling sleepy... *sleepy*...)

**PS:** I think I shall take this opportunity to bump this thread while I'm here.  So: ***bump***.

---

### Post by t0p on 2011-02-03
Sorry: I meant ***bump***

---

### Post by mastablasta on 2011-02-03
does the CD mount? what happens if copy the file form the CD back to HDD and try to run it?

---

### Post by matt_symes on 2011-02-03
Hi

When the disk is in can you try from the menu Movie->Play disc.... as in this thread.

[http://00.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10326923](http://00.ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=10326923)

Kind regards

---

### Post by blueridgedog on 2011-02-03
If the CD mounts, try and open individual videos with VLC...right click open with...if you have VLC installed.  If not, install via synaptic.

or 

```
sudo apt-get install vlc
```

It may help to show forum users what the contents of the CD are...
in a terminal:

You can find out where the CD is mounted with:

```
mount
```

Then, (change /mnt/LOCATION to the mount location deduced from the above)

```
cd /mnt/LOCATION
ls
```

---

### Post by nomko on 2011-02-03
First of all, get rid of Brasero. Get K3B installed. That works much better then Brasero.
Second of all, read what has been posted here. Those suggestions might help you.

---

