---
title: "Problem with touch pad."
date: 2009-01-05
forum: General Help
---

### Post by MR.UNOWEN on 2009-01-05
Hello,

I'm having trouble disabling double tap on my laptop. It's acting up, so I want to disable double tap. I tried every touch pad program, but none of them work. Anyway I think it's because of gsynaptics. Here what I get from terminal when I type gsynaptics:

GSynaptics couldn't initialize.
You have to set 'SHMConfig' 'true' in xorg.conf or XF86Config to use GSynaptics


Can some one help me fix this problem?


Here's the xorg.conf file in /etc/X11:
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings
# here are ignored.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	SubSection "Display"
		Virtual	1440 600
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver          "synaptics"
	Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
	Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
	Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
	Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
	Option          "SHMConfig"             "true"
	Option          "MaxTapTime"	        "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
EndSection

---

### Post by MusicMastaMike on 2009-01-05
Have you restarted X after changing xorg.conf?  Control+Alt+Backspace will do it for you.

---

### Post by MR.UNOWEN on 2009-01-06
Nope....  same problem. When I press it, it logs me out, but no change. Did it at login screen, no change. Anything wrong with file?

---

### Post by MusicMastaMike on 2009-01-06
Your touchpad section looks about the same as mine.  However, I don't have the following line in mine, if it helps:

```
Option "MaxTapTime" "0"
```

Maybe try taking that line out?  Here's my working touchpad section of /etc/X11/xorg.conf:

```

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Synaptics Touchpad"
	Driver		"synaptics"
	Option		"SendCoreEvents"	"true"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/psaux"
	Option		"Protocol"		"auto-dev"
	Option		"HorizEdgeScroll"	"0"
	Option		"SHMConfig"		"true"
EndSection

```

---

### Post by MR.UNOWEN on 2009-01-06
Nope....   what about "or XF86Config to use GSynaptics"...   Where's XF86Config?

---

### Post by MusicMastaMike on 2009-01-06
What laptop are you using?  It looks like maybe a netbook, judging by the screen resolution.  Also, what version of Ubuntu?

Also, I found this link that may be worth checking out: [http://www.nabble.com/Cannot-configure-Synaptics-touchpad---Requires-SHMConfig-td20591478.html](http://www.nabble.com/Cannot-configure-Synaptics-touchpad---Requires-SHMConfig-td20591478.html)

---

### Post by MR.UNOWEN on 2009-01-06
nope...  that just crashed the system...  had to comment it out

Also yes I'm using a netbook.  eee 1000ha

---

### Post by MusicMastaMike on 2009-01-06
Well I'm not entirely sure.  I'm having the same issue on an old laptop that I have, so I will continue to watch this thread and post up my solution, should I find one.

---

