---
title: "12.04 launcher behavior : SUGGESTION !"
date: 2012-06-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by UncleRoy on 2012-06-16
I will try to be RESTRAINED. I am VERY disappointed with the 12.04 launcher behavioral system  (including ALL its options). It it ABSURD to make a VITAL piece of  software dependent on (mouse) sensitivity unnecessarily. All manipulations of the options allow the computer to DECIDE when the launcher should or should not be shown. 

1) ALWAYS or if NOT ALWAYS
2) Let's introduce the concept of a hot spot which is either the left  side or top left  corner then NOT tell anyone that to trigger this you  must use a non standard mechanism (click the hot spot and whilst  remaining clicked push the mouse left "off the screen" until the launcher appears making  sure not to move the mouse too far away from the launcher or the  launcher DISAPPEARS AGAIN) then after you have selected an application the computer DECIDES whether to hide the launcher (depending on whether the mouse is over the launcher or not)

All of this is just NONSENSE.

There is such an OBVIOUS way of fixing this.

LET THE USER DECIDE

Up  in the right hand corner is the system TIME and other icons (shutdown ,  sound settings , mail etc). PUT a permanent LAUNCHER ICON (User Toggle  Show/Hide ) somewhere near the system time.  No Drop down Menu . No  options. Just Click 
(toggle Show/Hide). The launcher now appears/disappears when the user wants. 
This behavior makes redundant all the other logic. No mouse sensitivity or any other nonsense. 

Naturally  the launcher should be in a state of Show at logon  and if the launcher  is in a Hide state and NEEDS to be Shown for ANY reason (for example  Update Manager) the OS can always Show it. When the user has responded  they can always Hide it again.  
The cost of all this is less  than 1 square CM of screen space (and likely the DELETION of some code).  The launcher is an application which has a FIXED display position, has 2 states (Show/Hide) should not be dragable, movable or dependent on ANYTHING  other than the LAUNCHER ICON User Toggle. 

You might decide to code optional  variations on this behavior, but I would suggest there is NO NEED as a  simple USER toggle permanently and prominently visible would cover ANY  amount of clever code.

I could not find a SUGGESTION BOX so I put  this here , hoping it will somehow reach the developers and/or the  relevant personnel at Canonical . I  restate that this is the RESTRAINED  version. How many complaints have you had about 12.04 launcher so far.
If  we don't see this embedded into the next upgrade or release we will know why.

---

