---
title: ".mozilla is gowing very large."
date: 2017-02-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Hewjr100 on 2017-02-11
I copy my .mozilla file occasionally when I make minor changes to it, like adding a new shortcut to one of my favorites folder.  I have been doing this oh about 3 years.  Back then I had most of my favorites folders and shortcuts, I may have added about 20 over the years. It had, back then about 200-300 files, and about 20 mb.  Now it has 1,300 files at 153 mb.  How could adding a few shortcuts and 2 new addons, make the file so large?

Henry

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-02-11
History, cached files and databases plus an assortment of other cruft ?

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-02-11
My .mozilla folder is 2300 items, totalling 236.4 MB so half as large again as yours.

A lot of data goes into that folder; search it and you will find there are several sqlite database files, which on my FF take almost 100MB.

The single files alone, not including the subfolders of various sorts in my qn4db0if.default folder use just over 100 MB, the subfolders use the remaining space.

---

### Post by Hewjr100 on 2017-02-11
So I guess there is no way to delete anything.  I suppose I could delete .mozilla and rebuild my favorites folders and shortcuts, but it will just keep growing anyway.

Henry

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2017-02-11
> **Hewjr100 said:**
> Now it has 1,300 files at 153 mb.  How could adding a few shortcuts and 2 new addons, make the file so large?

1300 sounds like a rather large number of files for a [FONT=Courier New]~/.mozilla[/FONT] directory.  Mine has a total of only 788 files...for four different applications.

With all Mozilla-based applications closed, please run this command in Terminal -
```
find ~/.mozilla -type f > ~/mozilla-files.txt
```
This will dump a complete list of the files in [FONT=Courier New]~/.mozilla[/FONT].  Would you be comfortable posting the contents of the resulting [FONT=Courier New]mozilla-files.txt[/FONT] file?

---

### Post by howefield on 2017-02-12
> **Hewjr100 said:**
> So I guess there is no way to delete anything.  I suppose I could delete .mozilla and rebuild my favorites folders and shortcuts, but it will just keep growing anyway.

I have a tar.gz of a pristine Firefox profile (~/.mozilla) which includes 2 addons, approx 100 bookmarks and one theme which is under 5MB large. I use this when reinstalling or transferring to other machines. Have you tried deleting the Firefox history ?

---

### Post by mcduck on 2017-02-12
Just go to Firefox's Options, then Advanced->Network, and under "Cached Web Content"-section you'll find both a button to clear the cache, and an option to set limit to cache size.

(Of course keep in mind that the content is cached for a reason, so clearing it or reducing the size will make your web browsing slower as more content needs to be downloaded from the Internet again and again instead of being able to just use locally cached copies)

---

### Post by ajgreeny on 2017-02-12
> **mcduck said:**
> Just go to Firefox's Options, then Advanced->Network, and under "Cached Web Content"-section you'll find both a button to clear the cache, and an option to set limit to cache size.

(Of course keep in mind that the content is cached for a reason, so clearing it or reducing the size will make your web browsing slower as more content needs to be downloaded from the Internet again and again instead of being able to just use locally cached copies)
The FF cache is no longer in the hidden **.mozilla** folder; it has been in **.cache/mozilla/firefox** for quite some time now, so that will not make any difference.

On my system it is those sqlite databases that use most space.

I think there are ways to use vacuum to reduce the size of those databases but I'm not on my main machine so have no way to search at present; I'll report back on that.

---

### Post by Hewjr100 on 2017-02-12
I removed ubuntu 16.04.1 from windows 10 dual boot on the 8th.  Was going to fresh install 16.04.2 on the 9th,  oops it was delayed again.  Now I have to wait till Monday or longer.  Before removing ubuntu I copied .mozilla to my backup flash drive and noticed size.  Right now I can't do anything with it in windows, will wait till I install 16.04.2.

Henry

BTW I have my privacy custom set, but if I check all boxes I will lose my saved logins and site preferences.

Henry

---

