---
title: ".RaR???"
date: 2009-05-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by BeeDeeGee on 2009-05-04
I've dled a movie from pirate bay and it's all these files like .r1 .rar and etc. How do I convert these so I can watch the movie?

---

### Post by paradigm2 on 2009-05-04
> **BeeDeeGee said:**
> I've dled a movie from pirate bay and it's all these files like .r1 .rar and etc. How do I convert these so I can watch the movie?

rar is a common compression format.  r1 r2 ,etc mean they span multiple files.  I believe you either click on the .rar or the last r# file and it should handle the rest.

---

### Post by BeeDeeGee on 2009-05-04
It's telling me that archive type is not supported

---

### Post by akudewan on 2009-05-04
Type
```

sudo apt-get install unrar

```
in a terminal. Or select the package: unrar from Synaptic package manager. It should be able to extract after installing the package.

---

### Post by Death Requiem on 2009-05-04
I dont remember a lot but you can install it

sudo apt-get install unrar 

n_n try it :

---

### Post by paradigm2 on 2009-05-04
> **BeeDeeGee said:**
> It's telling me that archive type is not supported

Hmmm. Strange.  Usually I thought such files were handled by default.

Go to System -> Synaptic Package Manager and install "unrar" and "file-roller" if they aren't already installed.

This should help with Synaptic if you are new to Ubuntu:

[https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticHowto](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticHowto)

After doing this, you might go to the terminal and issue:

```

man unrar

```

This should give you some information about how to use the terminal unrar command if you have to.  It basically needs to take all those files, decompress them and create your file.  However you must have all parts and a password, if present.

---

### Post by BeeDeeGee on 2009-05-04
Thanks alot guys, worked:)

---

