---
title: "unable to boot"
date: 2008-11-20
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bodover on 2008-11-20
Upon stating of PC, it hangs waiting for the grub boot loader.
I can start my PC using the Ubuntu (7.10) install CD and all appears OK. Checked the grub config file, ran the grub intialisation of MBR, did an fsck, and checked my drives in general and all appears OK. But the PC will not boot from the HD!

I have Ubuntu 7.10 amd64 installed ONLY on the PC (ie no Windows). It's my video editing machine, and has worked very hard and reliably for over a year.

What I suspect is just prior to this happening, my BIOS lost all HDD references.  After getting the bios to find all the HDDs again, it will not boot.  Also I note in the grub config file there is a line like:
#kopt=root=UUID=83a617a7-2817-439d-b280-0912783fdex8 ro
where some doco indicates it should be something like
#kopt=root=/dev/sda1 ro

Is this rather lengthy serial number actually hard-coded within the drive, or is that something generated by the BIOS. Or am I off-course on this bit?

Any assistance appreciated. Otherwise I will just buy a new HDD (cheap), do a fresh install (easy), but then got to load my application software (pain).

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-11-20
Do you get a Grub error on start up, or do you see any other text on the screen when it hangs? How about from your Live CD, please post the following (Applications > Accessories > Terminal):
```
sudo fdisk -lu
```

---

### Post by bodover on 2008-11-20
There are no errors on boot up - just a flashing cursor.

Running the command you suggested, the output is:

ubuntu@ubuntu:~$ sudo fdisk -lu

Disk /dev/sda: 500.1 GB, 500107862016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 60801 cylinders, total 976773168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00035006

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sda1   *          63    13671314     6835626   83  Linux
/dev/sda2        13671315   976768064   481548375    5  Extended
/dev/sda5        13671378    25736129     6032376   82  Linux swap / Solaris
/dev/sda6        25736193   976768064   475515936   83  Linux

Disk /dev/sdb: 750.1 GB, 750156374016 bytes
255 heads, 63 sectors/track, 91201 cylinders, total 1465149168 sectors
Units = sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Disk identifier: 0x00016bf8

   Device Boot      Start         End      Blocks   Id  System
/dev/sdb1              63  1465144064   732572001   83  Linux

As you can see, I have multiple HDDs, with the first one partitioned.  And here is the space availability (df -k):
[FONT="Courier New"]/dev/sda1              6728280   4084644   2301856  64% /media/disk
/dev/sda6            468054608 347510160  96768652  79% /media/disk-1
/dev/sdb1            721075720 412506236 271940884  61% /media/disk-2[/FONT]

However, df /boot returns:
Filesystem           1K-blocks      Used Available Use% Mounted on
-                      2689936    685412   2004524  26% /

Is this empty filesystem due to booting from install CD?

Thanks so far.

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-11-20
In your original post you mentioned:
[QUOTE=bodover]What I suspect is just prior to this happening, my BIOS lost all HDD references. After getting the bios to find all the HDDs again, it will not boot.[/QUOTE]
Can you give some more details about that? What do you mean your BIOS lost all HDDs references? Did your BIOS suddenly not see your HDDs, as though they weren't connected? Any idea of what led up to your BIOS having problems? 

It would probably be good to reinstall Grub to the MBR of your boot drive, which I assume is sda, just to make sure that's not the problem. How about doing:
```
sudo grub
grub> find /boot/grub/stage1
grub> find /grub/stage1
```
One of the above commands should return your main Ubuntu partition (or /boot partition if you have one) in the form of (hdX,Y) where X and Y are numbers, for example (hd0,5), but use whatever it returns as follows:
```

grub> root (hdX,Y)
grub> setup (hdX)
grub> quit
```
Let me know if that changes anything.

---

### Post by bodover on 2008-11-20
How this came about - I was experiencing some performance issues. I decided to reboot, but it failed to do so.  A check of BIOS found that that it did not recognise any of my HDDs. I checked the HDDs were plugged in (power / cable). After a couple of false starts, got the BIOS to recognise the HDDs, but that is when no grub booting has taken place.

Via the install CD, I had already reinstalled grub to the MBR (as per your code).  I had already done some research on the web, but none of it has helped, hence now posting here.

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-11-20
That sounds like you have a hardware problem then, especially if reinstalling Grub didn't make any difference. Since your BIOS didn't recognize any of your HDDs, you might have something wrong with your motherboard. Maybe if you're lucky, the only problem is your BIOS is somehow corrupt, so reflashing your BIOS might help. Good luck and let me know how it goes.

---

### Post by bodover on 2008-11-20
eeek!
I will have to do some research before embarking on reflashing my BIOS.

Will get back with the outcome.

Thanks for your assistance.

---

### Post by bodover on 2008-11-20
SOLVED. - Simply selected 'Load Optimised Defaults'. It now boots as per normal.

This particular solution came about when investigating the reflashing of BIOS. For starters my built-in updater (q-Flash) looks for a floppy drive, but the m/b has no floppy drive connector. The instructions recommended to load the optimised defaults after installing new BIOS. As I was not having much progress installing an updated BIOS, I applied the same recommendation to the current BIOS!

Why the BIOS had a hiccup I don't know.  All appears OK with Ubuntu.

---

### Post by caljohnsmith on 2008-11-20
That's great news, I'm glad to hear you fixed it without too much hassle. I hope that whatever happened to cause your BIOS to go wacky doesn't happen again though. :)

---

