---
title: "10.10 Server and SSL Installation"
date: 2011-03-19
forum: General Help
---

### Post by usatonycuba on 2011-03-19
I bought a Godaddy SSL certificate for 3 years,  but I have problems with the installation .. I'm begin Ubuntu Server 10.10, with.. Apache2, PHP5, MySQl, WebMin (CP), NO-IP (from no-ip.com, wich is my Domain Registran) and i have install their app.. since i do not have at this moment a static ip address.. 

I have read in several forums, and installation options tend to vary .. For example, in places like [COLOR="Sienna"]([/COLOR] [http://community.godaddy.com/help/article/5238]("http://community.godaddy.com/help/article/5238") [COLOR="Sienna"])[/COLOR] recommend making changes to > /etc/apache2/sites-available/default-ssl
So, I edited the default-ssl and change the following details: 
[PHP]
SSLCertificateFile /path to my ssl certs/my_domain.com.crt 
SSLCertificateKeyFile /path to my private ssl/my_domain.key 
SSLCertificateChainFile /path to my ssl certs/gd_bundle.crt 
[/PHP]
[COLOR="Sienna"]SSLCertificateFile[/COLOR]  and [COLOR="Sienna"]SSLCertificateChainFile[/COLOR]  are THOSE what I Received FROM GoDaddy after the validation of my certificate... and.. [COLOR="Sienna"]SSLCertificateKeyFile[/COLOR] , is the one was auto-generated when, in the terminal of ubuntu I wrote [COLOR="Blue"]genrsa-openssl des3-out server.key 2048[/COLOR], and it was saved (store) as *[COLOR="Sienna"]whatever_name_i_did_place_here.key[/COLOR]*  in my /usr/bin/

Note: In my Router, I did a Forwardin, the PC that holds the certificate, apache2 (and web pages) .. and is supposed to communicate through port 443. 

This other site [COLOR="Sienna"]([/COLOR] [http://community.godaddy.com/help/5349/installing-ssl-certificate--apache-2x]("http://community.godaddy.com/help/5349/installing-ssl-certificate--apache-2x") [COLOR="Sienna"])[/COLOR] recommend making these changes to  
> /etc/apache2/conf.d 

I did not do this second option--> (edit conf.d), until not being sure what I'm supposed to do


My my domain key ( *[COLOR="Sienna"]whatever_name_i_did_place_here.key[/COLOR]* )  looks like:

[HTML]-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
Proc-Type: 4,ENCRYPTED
DEK-Info: DES-EDE3-CBC,CE4B_very_long_number_goes_here

all_encrypted_code_goes_here all_encrypted_code_goes_here
all_encrypted_code_goes_here all_encrypted_code_goes_here
all_encrypted_code_goes_here all_encrypted_code_goes_here
all_encrypted_code_goes_here all_encrypted_code_goes_here
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----[/HTML]
Do i suppouse to take off those 2 lines at top?... to make it look like this?:
[HTML]
-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
all_encrypted_code_goes_here all_encrypted_code_goes_here
all_encrypted_code_goes_here all_encrypted_code_goes_here
all_encrypted_code_goes_here all_encrypted_code_goes_here
all_encrypted_code_goes_here all_encrypted_code_goes_here
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
[/HTML]

*What did I do wrong, what am I missing*?

---

### Post by usatonycuba on 2011-03-20
No one yet :(

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-20
I am creating an ssl certificate and installing it on my server as well.  I think you might find the following documents helpful.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/10.10/serverguide/C/certificates-and-security.html#generating-a-csr](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.10/serverguide/C/certificates-and-security.html#generating-a-csr)

[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/httpd.html#https-configuration](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/httpd.html#https-configuration)

I am not putting my server.key and the certificate in a unique folder so I can manage it separate from the system files.   I noticed your path description in the default-ssl  might be wrong.

There is a standard file located in the following directory   /var/www/index.html.   This is a virtual host file and should be the file you edit. ...   in your case the file is named default-ssl.  I assume this is your choice. 

I think you need to complete the path description  

[COLOR=#000000][COLOR=#0000BB]SSLCertificateFile [/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]/[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]etc/ssl/certs[/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]/[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]my_domain[/COLOR][COLOR=#007700].[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]com[/COLOR][COLOR=#007700].[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]crt 
SSLCertificateKeyFile [/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]/[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]etc/ssl/private[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB][/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]/[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]my_domain[/COLOR][COLOR=#007700].[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]key 

[COLOR=Black]This is the standard place to put the files.[/COLOR][COLOR=Black]  I am actually putting these files in the /home/www/website/cert folder because the private folder is not able to be read.

I am not sure what the following comment is?   Why do you need this?

[/COLOR]SSLCertificateChainFile [/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]/[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]etc/ssl/certs[/COLOR][COLOR=#007700]/[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]gd_bundle[/COLOR][COLOR=#007700].[/COLOR][COLOR=#0000BB]crt  [/COLOR][/COLOR]

Again,  you might find the following useful.

[https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/httpd.html#https-configuration](https://help.ubuntu.com/8.04/serverguide/C/httpd.html#https-configuration)

Don't forget to restart apache2 after you update the file.

You might also find the following useful in setting up your virtual host server. 

[https://help.ubuntu.com/10.10/serverguide/C/httpd.html](https://help.ubuntu.com/10.10/serverguide/C/httpd.html)

---

### Post by usatonycuba on 2011-03-21
Thanks *[COLOR="Sienna"]spindler[/COLOR]*, i will check that up.. come back with results.. cheers

---

### Post by usatonycuba on 2011-03-21
Firts.. Thanks a lot for your replay Sp&#314;inder..

> **spindler said:**
> 
I am not sure what the following comment is?   Why do you need this?

SSLCertificateChainFile [COLOR=#007700]/etc/ssl/certs/gd_bundle.crt[/COLOR]

The "bundle cert"... I think there is where the whole problem are sit, not luck of make it available (global) in my system.. The "bundle cert" was issued by godaddy as >> gd_bundle.crt, I do manage a private server, with a FQDN,  I have read that most *NIX like.. systems distributions have a global trusted CA bundle file, and my "bundle cert" have to be validate (add it to that "trusted CA bundle list") wich is the "global trusted CA bundle file".

Here is what i found of [[COLOR="Blue"]Managing root certificates (Debian based)[/COLOR]]("http://wiki.hiit.fi/display/it/Managing+root+certificates+(Debian+based)")

> **spindler said:**
> I am not putting my server.key and the certificate in a unique folder so I can manage it separate from the system files. I noticed your path description in the default-ssl might be wrong.
It will be wrogn if we do not give the real path in our default-ssl file... So, here is what i have done in the Main server (wich runs separately from Mail Server and FTP server):

Edit my [COLOR=#007700] /etc/hosts[/COLOR] make look like this:
```

127.0.0.1       localhost.localdomain   localhost
192.168.0.110   My_Main_domain.com     My_Main_domain

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters

```

Request (genrsa) [COLOR=#007700]My_Main_domain.key 2048 [/COLOR]
```

cd /usr/bin/
openssl genrsa -des3 -out My_Main_domain.key 2048
openssl req -new -key My_Main_domain.key -out My_Main_domain.csr

```

I decide to put my certificate-related files into diderents locations [COLOR=#007700]/etc/apache2/ssl [/COLOR] (Note: My_Main_domain.crt and gd_bundle.crt , was send it by goddady after i did give to then my key file.
```

cp /home/my_home_folder/Downloads/My_Main_domain.crt /etc/apache2/ssl
cp /home/my_home_folder/Downloads/gd_bundle.crt /etc/apache2/ssl
cp cd /usr/bin/My_Main_domain.key /etc/apache2/ssl

```
```

a2enmod ssl

```
Establish a symlink from the [COLOR=#007700] 'available'[/COLOR] default-ssl file to the [COLOR=#007700]'enabled' [/COLOR] file 
```

ln -s /etc/apache2/sites-available/default-ssl /etc/apache2/sites-enabled/000-default-ssl

```

Make a separate places for [COLOR=#007700]www-ssl html[/COLOR] and [COLOR=#007700]www html[/COLOR] files
```

cd /var/www
mkdir html
cd /var
mkdir www-ssl
cd www-ssl
mkdir html

```

Configure  virtual hosts [COLOR=#007700]/etc/apache2/sites-available/default[/COLOR]
```

NameVirtualHost *:80
<VirtualHost My_Main_domain.com:80>
ServerName My_Main_domain.com
DocumentRoot /var/www/html/

```

Configure my HTTPS [COLOR=#007700]/etc/apache2/sites-available/default-ssl [/COLOR]
```

NameVirtualHost *:443
<VirtualHost My_Main_domain.com:443>
ServerName My_Main_domain.com
DocumentRoot /var/www-ssl/html/

```

My [COLOR=#007700]/etc/apache2/ports.conf [/COLOR] is listen to 443
```

NameVirtualHost My_Main_domain.com:80
Listen 80

<IfModule mod_ssl.c>
    Listen 443
</IfModule>

<IfModule mod_gnutls.c>
    Listen 443
</IfModule>

```

Properly pathed my  cert and key on  [COLOR=#007700]/etc/apache2/sites-available/default-ssl [/COLOR]
```

SSLEngine On
SSLCertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl/My_Main_domain.crt
SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/apache2/ssl/My_Main_domain.key

#SSLCertificateChainFile /etc/apache2/ssl.crt/server-ca.crt    << [COLOR=red]Here dont know waht to do[/COLOR] 
#SSLCACertificatePath /etc/ssl/certs/                          << [COLOR=red]Here dont know waht to do[/COLOR]
#SSLCACertificateFile /etc/apache2/ssl.crt/ca-bundle.crt       << [COLOR=red]Here dont know waht to do[/COLOR]
#SSLCARevocationPath /etc/apache2/ssl.crl/                     << [COLOR=red]Here dont know waht to do[/COLOR]
#SSLCARevocationFile /etc/apache2/ssl.crl/ca-bundle.crl        << [COLOR=red]Here dont know waht to do[/COLOR]

```

Note: there where I did said [COLOR=red]Here dont know waht to do[/COLOR], is because my [COLOR=#007700]gd_bundle.cert[/COLOR] file.. so in top i did mentions about this bundle file, what i suppouse to do?.. i have messing to much with my server configuration.. ?

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-22
I think I am at the same place you are.   I am not really sure why my https site does not come up.
I have been told that there is a tool to troubleshoot the certificate independently.


[http://www.digicert.com/help/](http://www.digicert.com/help/)

I ran this tool and got the following error.

**No certificates were found.**

 **Output from 'openssl s_client' command:**


I am currently researching the "openssl s_client command and attempting to figure out what this means.   I found a site that I am reading now. 

[http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/ssl/ssl_faq.html#refused](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/ssl/ssl_faq.html#refused)


Here it talks about the listen being different then the virtual host.

I also found a link to the lines you mentioned.  It gives descriptions and how to.

[http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_ssl.html](http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/mod/mod_ssl.html)



I am still looking into it but I thought you might find this useful.

---

### Post by usatonycuba on 2011-03-23
$ Spindler .... I finally made it work... let me do a summarize of all the steps I have followed it, and later on, I will post here in a good summary of it (including that particular part of "bundle crt"

---

### Post by usatonycuba on 2011-03-23
Reinstall the whole server (from scrach)... "that was not funny at all"
Open PPUTTY Client
```
aptitude install ssh openssh-server
```
Edit my "interfaces" in [COLOR=#007700]/etc/network/interfaces[/COLOR] (described in the above topic)
Then:
```
/etc/init.d/networking restart 
```
Edit my "hosts" in [COLOR=#007700]/etc/hosts[/COLOR] (described in the above topic)
Then:
```

echo My_Main_domain.com > /etc/hostname 
/etc/init.d/hostname restart 
hostname 
hostname -f
aptitude update
aptitude safe-upgrade 
reboot

```
After that, I installed all the LAMP, the libraries and packages for servers and other (Courier-Postfix-MYSQL-Phpmyadmin-Apache2-quota-bind9-php-phpmyadmin-webmin. .. and on ....).. and someone tell to do this.. ;) :

```

dpkg-reconfigure dash    [COLOR=red] <<< No [/COLOR]Install dash as /bin/sh?
/etc/init.d/apparmor stop
update-rc.d -f apparmor remove 
aptitude remove apparmor apparmor-utils

```
After set the whole server, (Make null and random devices, and fix permissions of the directories, and seccurity relate issues).. I made a new CERTIFICATE REQUEST, and  Re-Keyed my RSA with Goddady, download it, unzip, and put them into right place... ;) (copy to new location, and [COLOR=red]remove (delete) the old one[/COLOR])
```

cp /etc/home_folder/My_Main_domain.crt  /etc/ssl/certs
cp /etc/home_folder/Downloads/gd_bundle.crt  /etc/ssl/certs        
cp /usr/bin/My_Main_domain.key  /etc/ssl/private                    

```
From what I understood about the bundle crt, it makes a kind of peaceful validator (link), or whatever you call it, between domain.crt and domain.key, so I properly pathed my  .cert and .key on  [COLOR=#007700]My_Main_domain.com-ssl[/COLOR], and place then in the following locations:

Note that I did not played this time with [COLOR=#007700]default-ssl[/COLOR], insted I did this:
```

cp /etc/apache2/sites-available/default-ssl /etc/apache2/sites-available/My_Main_domain.com-ssl

```
..and I edited that one making look like this: 
```

NameVirtualHost *:443
<VirtualHost My_Main_domain.com:443>
ServerName My_Main_domain.com
DocumentRoot /var/www-ssl/html/

...........

SSLEngine On
SSLCertificateFile /etc/ssl/certs/My_Main_domain.crt
SSLCertificateKeyFile /etc/ssl/private/My_Main_domain.key
SSLCertificateChainFile /etc/ssl/certs/gd_bundle.crt

```
So, now i'm good, if I go to, [https://whatever_i_have_in_www-ssl/](https://whatever_i_have_in_www-ssl/) it looks fine, and viceversa with http:// request... One thing that you may wanna look into, is that "from local" you will not see your SSL to be a valid one, I guess that is for the "localhost" set in apache and since I point my Server to My_domain.com it makes the browser to think funny.. but I did test from my other ISP, and works just smooth.

Another issue that might want to look into, is that you may wanna  deleted the crt file (CERTIFICATE REQUEST've request), before download it again from your Valid CA provider...

Gl.. brother, i will around seen futher into this topic... (one more thing, $Moderators ... (I think topic is not resolved), since there still doubts about it from users ... should I call it as SOLVED?

---

### Post by spindler on 2011-03-23
I just checked my router  and added port 443 to port forwarding.   Now my ssl certificate works.  I did not do anything to the comment lines you mentioned in a previous post.

I am glad I was able to help.  You indeed helped me as well.

You should label this thread solved.

Spindler

---

