---
title: "8.04 doesn't start, stuck on...."
date: 2009-09-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Nitefang on 2009-09-01
Hey, just installed Ubuntu 8.04 on an old PC that my mom used to use. I can't give you any specs I'm sorry, it's rather old, but it came from the factory with Windows XP if that's any help, it has an AMD Athlon 2.08Gigz and half a gig of memory.

  Last night I put 8.04 on it from the disk, everything went fine except it couldn't use my printer. Anyway I just tried to turn it back on and it gets stuck on:
"Starting Common unix Printing System:cupsd"
and never gets to the log-on screen.

UPDATE: I just let it run for about 20 minutes after getting stuck and it finally got to the log-on screen, any idea why it takes to long getting that working? The printer that didn't work right with it is no longer plugged in, I only mention the printer because of the line it gets stuck on.

---

### Post by NoaHall on 2009-09-01
Disable the printer service from starting up? Unless you need your printer, of course, in which case, what printer is it?

---

### Post by Nitefang on 2009-09-01
It's an hp deskjet 845c.
I would like to get it working because it doesn't work with my other PC.

---

### Post by kevinatkins on 2009-09-01
A deskjet 845c should work no problem - HP printers are very well supported indeed.

But something is very wrong for CUPS to hang on boot. If the printer is connected to the PC, try disconnecting it and attempting to reboot. If that's successful, go to System->Administration->Printing and delete any printers. Then try reconnecting the printer, turn it on, and Ubuntu should recognise it and set it all up for you...

---

### Post by Nitefang on 2009-09-01
I just remembered that when I first plugged it in I was asked if I want to configure it and I said no because I was lazy lol. This time around I'll go ahead and do that.

---

### Post by fluffman86 on 2009-09-01
And if you're still having problems, open Terminal and copy/paste:
```
sudo apt-get remove --purge cups && sudo apt-get install cups
```

Only do that as a last resort.

---

