---
title: "13.10 - VERY Slow to load desktop sometimes"
date: 2013-10-31
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mykrob on 2013-10-31
Got a clean install (clean as of the official release date) of Ubuntu 13.10 on my Acer V5-571P. It worked great in 13.04, and works great in 13.10 as well, except..
Seems more often than not, once I type in my password, it can take quite a while to render the desktop. Sometimes, I end up dropping to a virtual terminal and rebooting from command line, then it will usually work okay after a reboot.

What can I do to troubleshoot this issue and determine what is causing the hangup?
Thanks

---

### Post by mykrob on 2013-10-31
A little more info:

When it happens, I get a black screen and I can move my cursor around, but nothing else. The desktop may or may not render.
Next time it happens, perhaps I should go to a virtual terminal and see if Unity is running. Still, I'd like to find out how to troubleshoot this and see what the cause of the problem is.

---

### Post by jusmee on 2013-12-10
I am getting exactly the same thing. Black screen after login, but the mouse arrow is visible and I can move it.   I have noticed that if I wait long enough, it seems to eventually start up, although I wonder if that might be because, while I am waiting, I switch to a different TTY console (<ctrl-alt-F1>) and back a few times.

---

### Post by briank8525 on 2013-12-21
I am running Ubuntu 13.10.  Asus Q400A  laptop.  I have the same problem.  However I found that by taking some options off in the compiz settings manager under the effects section.seems to help alot. 
Right now I only have window decoration checked.   I am still testing different options but for me that seems to be the source of the delay. 
Note:  I could not find anything in the syslog in regards to compiz being delayed or error when loading.

---

### Post by mmarvick2 on 2014-02-28
I have this issue too. I'm running 13.10 on a Toshiba S855-S5254, with identical symptoms. Has anyone found a solution to this?

---

### Post by monkeybrain20122 on 2014-02-28
I sometimes have this issue (login takes relatively long time) and on all Ubuntus (not just 13.10) and on different machines. Here is a  simple work around that I stumbled upon which works for me. I usually keep only two kernels around. The fix is to boot into the previous kernel, login to the desktop once and then reboot into the current kernel and log in speeds up quite a lot. I only have to do it once whenever there is a kernel update (i.e boot into the previous one) and then I can boot directly to the current kernel and desktop loads fast. 

Now if you have more than one old kernel maybe you have to log into all of them and load the desktop once. If this work around works I would hypothesize that login would take longer time the more old kernels you have.

---

