---
title: "Cannot change resolution / and other weirdness"
date: 2008-07-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bluefloyd8 on 2008-07-02
Hey all! this is a weird problem and i think my computer is real messed up, so I appreciate any help on this

I was running Ubuntu on a newly built computer for a few months without problem. Then, I moved and sent the computer via ground mail and now it does not work anymore.

The problems: (keep in mind the computer worked great before shipping it)

1) Computer loads BIOS, begins to boot OS and then turns off (about 10 seconds into boot). I think this is some sort of overheat protection. I took off the CPU fan and cleaned off the thermal grease on the fan and processor case (thinking that it was creating some sort of capacitance or false temperature reading), put back the fan and it finally let me boot!

2) Upon booting Ubuntu, I can only get 800x600 resolution. Checking xorg.conf, I see that the video card isnt specified. I followed this thread ([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=767933](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=767933)) but could not resolve my problems. 

3) After having the computer on for about 20 minutes, it randomly shut off again.

4) After the shut off from #3, I havent been able to get the computer back on again. It will go through BIOS, then I choose what to boot (Ubuntu 7.10 kernel 2.6.22-14-generic, Ubuntu 7.10 kernel 2.6.22-14-generic (recovery mode), or Ubuntu 7.10, memtest86+), and when I choose either of the first two options the computer will show the Ubuntu splash screen, then the monitor displays the message ""Cannot Display Video Mode"" or it will just shut off completely again.


Lots of odd problems. Any help would be appreciated!
thanks

---

### Post by enchesss on 2008-07-02
have you got/tried a live cd?
did you do an upgrade before the last shutdown that may have changed some settings or the xorg?
have you got a monitor and tried pluging it into the vga out?

you could also try some of these boot options:

```
https://help.ubuntu.com/community/BootOptions
```

---

### Post by bluefloyd8 on 2008-07-02
update: I was able to get a terminal prompt in recovery mode and restored the xorg.conf file. Now I can boot in normal mode but still cannot change resolution.


Here is the contents of xorg.conf now:


# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Generic Video Card"
	Driver		"vesa"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL E172FP"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Generic Video Card"
	Monitor		"DELL E172FP"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1152x864" "1024x768" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by enchesss on 2008-07-02
what is the resolution set to?

---

### Post by bluefloyd8 on 2008-07-02
It is 800 x 600. No higher options are available.


Tried booting from CD. The screen flashed between "" Cannot display video mode "" and the boot screen several times. Then went to a blue screen with this message:

"" The display server has been shut down 6 times in the last 90 seconds. It is likely that something bad is going on. Waiting for 2 minutes before trying again on display :0.  ""

---

### Post by bluefloyd8 on 2008-07-03
bump. anyone have other ideas?

---

### Post by GuitarRocker2562 on 2008-07-03
If you think you have the skills, reconnect your video card, then backup your important files and reinstall ubuntu.

---

### Post by dodle on 2008-07-03
Try making these,or similar changes to the "Screen" section of your xorg.conf file.

Section "Screen"
Identifier "Default Screen"
Device "Generic Video Card"
Monitor "DELL E172FP"
DefaultDepth 24
SubSection "Display"
[COLOR="Red"]Depth 24
Virtual 1024 768[/COLOR]
Modes "1280x1024[COLOR="Red"]@70[/COLOR]" "1280x1024[COLOR="Red"]@75[/COLOR]" "1152x864[COLOR="Red"]@70[/COLOR]" "1152x864[COLOR="Red"]@75[/COLOR]" "1024x768[COLOR="Red"]@70[/COLOR]" "1024x768[COLOR="Red"]@75[/COLOR]" "800x600[COLOR="Red"]@70[/COLOR]" "800x600[COLOR="Red"]@75[/COLOR]" "720x400[COLOR="Red"]@70[/COLOR]" "720x400[COLOR="Red"]@75[/COLOR]" "640x480[COLOR="Red"]@70[/COLOR]" "640x480[COLOR="Red"]@75[/COLOR]"
EndSubSection
EndSection

**Don't forget to back up the xorg.conf file**

Hope this helps.

---

