---
title: "11.10: My Book Live NAS locking up during file copy over Samba"
date: 2011-11-12
forum: General Help
---

### Post by dimaspivak on 2011-11-12
Hi all,

I used to have no issues with my Western Digital My Book Live (3 TB) drive, but upon updating to 11.10, have had a significant problem with file copying from my laptop to the networked drive. Upon adding it to fstab, my system has no problem connecting to the drive on start up, and is great with accessing files on the network. The problem comes when I try to copy large files (e.g. movies ripped from my DVDs) over to the drive. I simply copy and paste and a few hundred megabytes of the file go through without a hitch, but then it simply locks up. The only way to regain access to the drive is to physically unplug it from power and plug it back in (and then killall nautilus and restart it). I have ssh access to the NAS and have tried looking at various /var/log files, but see nothing that seems like it has to do with the crash, so I thought I'd ask if anyone here had advice about what to try. Anyone ever experienced this kind of locking up before?

-Dima

---

### Post by dimaspivak on 2011-11-13
I thought I'd update this for anyone doing a search that's having the same problem. This locking up only seems to happen when I try copying files to a share that has been permanently mounted with an entry in fstab. Opening the networked directory by Browsing Network in 11.10, seems to let files copy without a hitch. 

Anyone have an idea why this might be the case?

-Dima

---

### Post by buuh83 on 2012-01-05
Hey,

I'm having the same problem with a MyBookLive (2TB). Mounted via fstab, the whole system hangs while copying big files until I have to shutdown the whole computer. I tried to play with the mount options (cifs), but it doesn't make a difference.

When I access the NAS via the Nautilus Network Browser everything's fine. Maybe a little slower, but I'm not sure about that...

Did you find any solution so far?

regards,
buuh

---

### Post by ruegsegs on 2012-01-28
My WD MyBookLive is also locking up on large file copy using NFS, but I'm not mounting using fstab.  (Ubuntu 11.10 laptop host)    I'm just mounting from a script for occasional use.  I'm using CIFS.  However, the NAS locks/freezes/hangs about 1/2 way through a large copy (100Mb or so).  I'd love to find a solution.....
[COLOR=Black]
Firmware: [/COLOR][COLOR=#616264][FONT=Tahoma][COLOR=Black]MyBookLive 02.10.09-124 : Core F/W
Samba version 3.2.5

====================  

*** _Update_:**   I just copied 450Mb to the NAS, no problem,  from a windows XP box wired to the router.   The 3 things different are 1) host OS, 2) wired vs wireless, 3) FTP vs samba.      Which one is it?   Time to run a blocked experimental design.... (DOE)

*** **_**2nd update**_**:**   I connected the laptop to the router directly to the router via Cat 5  --   and I was able to quickly, completely and repeatedly  copy 450Mb to and from the NAS using FTP.   

It certainly seems like it's a wireless router issue.   I've copied large files before -- not sure why the this MyBookLive NAS would have a problem with wireless?   I'm trying wired CIFS samba next....


*** _3rd update_:**   I did some key tests using CIFS/Samba.   I copied 3GB (same files) from my laptop (Ubuntu Oneiric 11.10) to the WD MyBook Live NAS through my CIFS/Samba mount.   When I wired-connected my laptop, 3GB transferred flawlessly.   When I repeated the same experiment using wireless, the NAS hangs up after only 23Mb or so.   

Every once in a long while, I've copied 100Mb or so to the NAS wirelessly, but it mostly hangs the NAS when any Samba copies are made from a wireless laptop.

My NAS is hard-connected to a Netgear G 54Mbs WGR614 v4 router.  

I'm not sure why the NAS hangs for wireless file transfer but not wired transfer with CIFS/Samba connections, but that seems to be very consistent.   Unfortunately, that's my setup and preferred backup strategy.  I'm going to write WD technical support.  So far, they've been great and have helped me setting up Samba.




[/COLOR] [/FONT][/COLOR]

---

### Post by aluman on 2012-05-02
Hi all,

I am also experiencing problems with the Mybook Live and a /etc/fstab cifs/Samba mount under Ubuntu 11.10. Some normal copy operations in Nautilus seem to work fine, but I really get stuck when using backintime to do backups (using hard links).

I set unix extensions = yes in the Mybook Live in oder to make hard links work. The setup works fine on 10.04 on another machine and used to work fine on 10.10, from which I had to upgrade now that it is not supported anymore.

After copying the first file the NAS locks and is not accessible anymore (no shares, no SSH, ping works). It seems to have something to do with cifs in Ubuntu 11.10, right? Have you had any success in resolving the issue and/or did it go away in 12.04?

Cheers,
aluman

---

### Post by aluman on 2012-05-02
Just a remark:
I could not resolve the Samba issue (read on german ubuntuusers.de wiki that problems are known with newer Samba versions connecting to older Samba@NAS) but got NFS to work (with hardlinks) as an alternative to use tools like backintime flawlessly.

Check:
[http://community.wdc.com/t5/Network-Drive-Ideas/NFS-Support-for-MyBookLive/idi-p/148160](http://community.wdc.com/t5/Network-Drive-Ideas/NFS-Support-for-MyBookLive/idi-p/148160)

Cheers,
Henning

---

### Post by surfdoc on 2012-07-13
Hi Guys,

I've had the same problem (smb to my book), but also when copying a large file to any smb share. 

So, I tried NFS which seemed to work for a while, but now it's freezing again.

I've read a few suggestions that FTP is more stable and faster than smb (nfs is the fastest), but I'm still trying to figure out how to ftp the public share.

Anyone else got issues with nfs?

---

### Post by m3topaz on 2012-07-15
I map out a cifs share of the MyBookLive as a local mount onto my (Precise) computer. Then using rsync, I've shipped over some half a million files in one go to the mount location. Maximum file size in all of that will be of the order of 10GB.
I've not used fstab as the computer roams around, so I'm quite happy to mount the share each time.
Historically, my experience with SMB on Ubuntu is not good (connection drop-outs, errors). However, I've never really needed to use it so I've not persisted.

---

