---
title: "14.04 troubles"
date: 2014-04-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by iamrandy on 2014-04-21
so last night i did an upgrade to 14.04 from 13.10. i did the upgrade through the upgrade manager and everything installed exactly the way that it said it would.  The system cleaned and then asked to restart.  I restarted and when it came backup I got an error saying the boot disk could not run. Has anyone else had this problem.

I appreciate the feed back thank you

---

### Post by maestrobwh1 on 2014-04-21
Sounds like grub didn't update properly.

Do you have usb/cdrom of 14.04?

You could boot that, then chroot into your system

Once running another ubuntu media on the machine:

first locate your drive and do an fsck just for measure

```
fsck -pfv /dev/sdxy
``` 
where x and y are your drive letter and partition, ie, sda1

then when that is done, mount the drive and note where it mounts, i.e. /home/ubuntu/drivename (if you never labeled the drive, it might be a long uuid number and that is okay)

ideally, have an internet connection

Then fire up the terminal:

```
sudo su
mount -o bind /sys /home/ubuntu/drivename/sys
mount -o bind /proc /home/ubuntu/drivename/proc
mount -o bind /dev /home/ubuntu/drivename/dev
mount -o bind /dev/pts /home/ubuntu/drivename/dev/pts
chroot /home/ubuntu/drivename /bin/bash
```

This will allow you do treat your drive more or less as if it is a running system.

now

```
dpkg --configure -a
```

this makes sure all packages were configured/set up completely

assuming no errors

```
apt-get update && apt-get -f upgrade
```

this forces apt to work for any potential partially done upgrading

```
sudo apt-get -y dist-upgrade
```

probably the previous steps are unnecessary but assures an appropriately upgraded system.

```
dpkg-reconfigure grub-pc
```

If it asks for what drive sda or sdb, choose the right one and don't choose a partition **(unless you are running *EFI, and that complicates matters to some extent)**

*If this is true, before running the dpkg-reconfigure command, do a 

```
mount -a
```

to make sure the EFI partition is mounted.

for EFI on a 32 bit system 
```
dpkg-reconfigure grub-efi
```

or EFI on a 64 bit system
```
dpkg-reconfigure grub-efi-amd64
```

and follow the prompts.  This not only reinstalls grub to the master boot record [mbr] or to your EFI partition* of your non booting drive but also runs the update program so that it detects your install and adds appropriate grub entries for it.

---

### Post by iamrandy on 2014-04-22
yeah i kind of already messed that all up i couldn't wait for an answer about it and just took the whole situation as a precursor to what 14.04 was going to be like, and just got xubuntu 12.04.4 lts.

thank you very much for the help though now i know what to do when  i upgrade later if this happens again.


Thank You Very Much

iamrandy

---

