---
title: "12.10 won't reboot on restart"
date: 2013-01-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by aykoola on 2013-01-25
OK, another problem.

I restart my computer after a fresh install of Xubuntu 12.10, and it won't boot. It just freezes in that area that loads first, where the laptop manufacturer's logo is displayed (and in that time you can press the F2 key to get into BIOS, so the very start of the boot). It freezes so i can't enter BIOS nor it want's to boot the system. It only boots properly when i plug it out from electricity and pull out the battery. If the battery is still inside it won't work. So than i entered BIOS and set the values for default (because i had a usb hard drive set as priority) and it was ok for a couple of hours, and then started freezing again. I had no such problems with 12.04, but this problem kept happening to me on every ubuntu family distro based on 12.10 - Xubuntu, Ubuntu, Linux Mint and Mint Xfce. 

I tried to run 12.10 Xubuntu, 64bit on a Fujitsu esprimo v6535 machine.

Thank you!

---

### Post by aykoola on 2013-01-26
bump

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2013-01-26
> **aykoola said:**
> It only boots properly when i plug it out from electricity and pull out the battery. If the battery is still inside it won't work.
Broken battery perhaps?

---

### Post by aykoola on 2013-01-26
i presume it wouldn't work on other distros if it was broken? or not?

---

### Post by prodigy_ on 2013-01-26
You mean you can boot into something else? From your description it seemed that you had freezes at vendor logo screen (during BIOS POST).

---

### Post by aykoola on 2013-01-26
No no, it boots other distros just fine, all except ubutnu 12.10 family!

---

