---
title: "10.04 Desktop Sleeps and won't wake up"
date: 2012-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by notrobb on 2012-02-14
I have a Gateway Desktop that's been running Kubuntu 10.04 for quite some time without issue. 

A few weeks ago, I installed all of the Ubuntu Studio packages and with it came Gnome. Gnome get set as the default login and I wasn't bothered enough to change it back to KDE. 

At this point, after a period of not using it, my machine would sleep or hibernate, and never wake up. It's not just the display, because it's inaccessible by ssh as well and requires a hard power off to come back up. 

I thought it could be because it was originally a KDE install, so I reinstalled a fresh Ubuntu 10.04, but the problem persists. 

I also uninstalled gnome-power-manager yesterday, but it did it again last night. 

Is there any other tricks to disabling any and all power management?

---

### Post by winh8r on 2012-02-14
Have you made sure the screensaver preferences are not set to lock the screen etc when idle

You will probably already have been into power management and set it all to never regard computer as idle and never spin down hard disks.

Cannot think of any reason why it would go into suspend/hibernate though.


Random guess here, is there some sort of security time out on the ssh connection when not active?

---

### Post by notrobb on 2012-02-16
Yeah, screen saver doesn't require a password and I had configured power management to never suspend in System > Preferences > Power Management (though those settings aren't even there anymore now that I removed gnome-power-manager. 

I don't think it's an ssh security issue, I mean, the machine doesn't depend on ssh or anything... I just used that as a barometer to try and tell if the whole machine had gone to sleep or if it was just the monitor that wouldn't wake up.

It just did it again :( So I disabled acpi in sysv-rc-conf and also autologin per the suggestions in some other threads. Fingers crossed.

---

