---
title: "11.10 - .ICEauthority Logging in issue"
date: 2011-12-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-28
Once again I come begging for help.
So yesterday I updated from 10.10 to 11.04, this worked fine. Next I updated from 11.04 to 11.10, my problems have started.
When trying to log in I'm getting "could not update ICEauthority file /home/billy/.ICEauthority.
Now can log in via terminal. I've tried deleting the file, in a hope when I log back in it will be created. This didn't work.
Permission are currently set at
-rw-------
After searching around I found the following thread - [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1841457](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1841457)
Also tried most things within the thread, including reinstalling gnome-session, but still no luck.
Now I don't know if this is relevant, but at the log in screen I can only choose, in the drop down box, GNOME, GNOME Classic,GNOME Classic (No effects), KDE, Recovery Console and User Definded. None of these allow access.
There are no other users on this machine, and no other account so I can't log in as a guest user.
Any advice would be great.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-28
> I've tried deleting the file, in a hope when I log back in it will be created. This didn't work.In what way did it not work? The command
> rm .ICEauthority
should do the trick. Did you get an error message when you tried?

I have occasionally also had to remove .Xauthority - perhaps you could try removing that one too.

---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-28
I used the rm command to remove the file, I got the same result, a box with "could not update ICEauthority file /home/billy/.ICEauthority"
So I created the file manually, with the same result.
I don't seem have a .Xauthority file.

---

### Post by satanselbow on 2011-12-28
I do wish I made better notes when I come up against this sort of thing :(

From memory - I deleted the .ICEauthority file using a liveCD/USB and did a **hard reboot** Ie complete power off not restart - which seems to be key in it's correct regeneration.

This issue is not Ubuntu specific and manifests itself on many distro FYI ;)

---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-28
> **satanselbow said:**
> I do wish I made better notes when I come up against this sort of thing :(

From memory - I deleted the .ICEauthority file using a liveCD/USB and did a **hard reboot** Ie complete power off not restart - which seems to be key in it's correct regeneration.

This issue is not Ubuntu specific and manifests itself on many distro FYI ;)
Thanks for the tip, it sure makes sense, and at this stage I'll try anything.
I've managed to get my hands on a Live CD, granted 10.10, but I dont think that will make a difference. 
Now the dumb question, how do I delete the file. I'm not adverse to using command line, but I just need help with the commands. It's more around how to mount the main system file drive. Hope that makes sense.
Cheers

---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-28
> **mojutijatir said:**
> Hello! I am using Ubuntu 11.10. When I write C program using structure, it shows error! Specially if the structure is global. It says that the strucuture name is not found! But I wrote the same programs in Turbo C and it runs well! Can anyone help???
OK, I've no idea what this means, and if it's related to my problem and how to fix it.
Can anyone offer any other advice or suggestions?
Cheers

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-28
> **mps69 said:**
> OK, I've no idea what this means, and if it's related to my problem and how to fix it.
Can anyone offer any other advice or suggestions?
Cheers
I think the above post is a new user having difficulty starting his own thread. I'll try to make its own thread for it in a moment.

Are you actually able to remove the .ICEauthority file? If you do ```
ls -l .ICEauthority
rm .ICEauthority
ls -l .ICEauthority
``` 
does it get listed first time, then an error that is doesn't exist after using the **rm** command? Can you post the result of using those commands?

---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-28
At boot 
ls -l .ICEauthority
-rw------- 1 billy billy 0 2011-12-28 08:47 .ICEauthority

After rm command
cannot access .ICEauthority: no such file or directory

Sorry, I've only got command line function so I'm having to type the details manually into the thread rather than copy and paste, hope it makes sense.
cheers

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-28
That's good. It shows that the file is being deleted properly. I would normally expect it to get recreated next time you log in.

And since your first "ls" shows it's there again, it obviously is being recreated. However, on my system, the file size is not 0 bytes, it's 326 bytes, so maybe there is some kind of problem writing to it. I can't imagine what problem would allow you to create the file but then not write contents to it, other than perhaps running out of disk space.

Try **df -h** to check disk space.

Anyone else got any ideas?

---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-28
Thanks for trying, it's much appreciated.
I've got 300gb free.
Even after a hard reboot the file wasn't created.
Could I use a .ICEauthority file from another PC/Netbook, if I could copy it over some way?

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-28
No, the file should be recreated whenever you log in as far as I know. I don't think copying it from elsewhere will work.

What's the state of your home folder?
**ls -ld /home**

---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-29
ls -ld /home gives the following
drwxr-xr-x 3 root root 4096 2011-01-23 15:13 /home

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-29
I'm an idiot. Sorry, please can you do it for your home directory.
> ls -ld /home/billyI just want to check the permissions of your home directory because I can't think of any other good ideas as to what's wrong. Still hoping someone else has good ideas.

---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-29
no worries, at least you've got a better idea than me. 8-)

ls -ld /home/billy gave the following result

drwxr-xr-x 64 billy billy 4096 2011-12-28 17:25 /home/billy

If the worst comes to the worst, I'll just reinstall 10.10. 
Fortunately I backup my home directory before I started the upgrade process, so in theory I shouldn't have lost anything. I've played this game before and lost everything, so once bitten twice shy. ;)  
Thanks again for at least looking, and trying to help.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-29
I wish I knew what was wrong nut I don't. That home dorectory looks right too.

Before you reinstall, you might want to try the procedure in post #9 in this thread [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11567501#post11567501](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?p=11567501#post11567501) - make yourself a new home directory with no settings, and see if the problem goes away then.

---

### Post by mps69 on 2011-12-29
Ok tried that, with the same result, but it got me thinking and I created a fresh new account via terminal.
Unfortunately this didn't work either. Bit frustrating but it's been a learning curve at least using terminal.
I'm going roll back to 10.10, only because I knew it worked fully.
Thanks for taking the time to help, I hope I can pass my experiences on in the future.

---

### Post by The Cog on 2011-12-30
I think it must be some form of corruption in your installation. I'm sure it's not a common problem with 11.10 or other people would be complaining about it. So I think it's worth reinstalling your existing version, unless you actually want to roll back.

Good luck.

---

