---
title: "16.04 live disc fails to boot - black screen &amp; flashing cursor"
date: 2016-04-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Brent_Santin on 2016-04-24
Hi, I'm reposting this issue in here because the original author of this thread:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2321734&p=13476146](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=2321734&p=13476146)

...did not flag it as a Lubuntu issue in the thread title prefix.  However, it seems to be specific to the Lubuntu live disc for 16.04.

Essentially, the new 16.04 LTS live disc (DVD in my case) of Lubuntu will not boot.  Stops on a black screen with flashing cursor in upper left corner mid-way through boot.  Computer may respond to CTRL-ALT-DEL (there was disc activity when I did this and the DVD was spit out), but nothing appeared on screen.

Suspect problem with certain Intel graphics chips.  Mine was the [B]Intel 82945G.

Note: nomodeset is a workaround, but it would be nice if this could get fixed as 14.04LTS doesn't require this workaround.
[/B]

---

### Post by pimlists on 2016-06-01
Bumped into the same issue. I could solve it via the workaround. Seeing how lubuntu is a distribution of choice for netbooks (with older intel chipsets), this is rather inconvenient. I didn't have this problem with ubuntu 16.04  Hope it gets fixed for lubuntu 16.04.1 !

---

### Post by ash24 on 2016-06-02
I was installing Lubuntu 16.04 on my Packard Bell netbook and came across a similar issue, I installed from a USB but didn't go into the live boot desktop and just went straight through the install then when it rebooted I was presented with a blank screen with a message about a Disk check. After changing to a login prompt, Alt+F1 I think it was, and logging in via that and a bit of googling I installed the intel graphics drivers from the repositories and it booted into the GUI fine although I did have an issue with the Xauthority file too but that was just a chown to get that working but not the easiest install of a distro I've had.

---

### Post by bug4 on 2016-08-09
I believe I have such a problem with Intel Braswell Graphics (Celeron N3050).Ubuntu Edition Dell 3552.
 I have (not yet) tried the plain vanilla Ubuntu but it happens on Mint 18.

[https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=59&t=226527&p=1195216#p1195216](https://forums.linuxmint.com/viewtopic.php?f=59&t=226527&p=1195216#p1195216)

(Black screen on boot that is passed via nomodeset. But same happens on boot with installed system. )
Apparently somewhere on bugtrackers its marked as "wont fix", why I dont know.

---

