---
title: "11.10 command line useradd  issues"
date: 2012-08-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JimLS on 2012-08-13
I have an 11.10 system that I want to install misterhouse on (a perl program).  I have a desktop system with gui and was following the install instructions here (with a few obvious changes due to a newer ubuntu version).
 
[http://misterhouse.wikispaces.com/ConfigureUbuntu](http://misterhouse.wikispaces.com/ConfigureUbuntu)
 
I created the user mh with the command given on that page:
useradd -d /opt/misterhouse -c MisterHouse -g mh -p *[password of your choice]* mh

I was then not able to log in to the initial log in screen.  Initially it gave me an improper password error so I set the password again with passwd.  It then took the password but could not load the GUI - at least that is what appeared to happen.  So from another user shell I used su mh  (it might have been: su - mh)to log in.  That worked sort of.  I got a command prompt and could do basic commands but the command history didn't work.  I am guessing some of the options used with adduser caused problems setting up the user properly.  This program doesn't need to run as a graphic user but for setup it would be a plus.  
 
What went wrong and how do I fix it?  Would be nice to remove the 'MisterHouse' reference on this account too, and just use 'mh'.

---

### Post by bchurchill on 2012-08-13
There are a few things I can think of.  First, the -p option of useradd takes an encrypted version of the password.  I'm not sure what it does if you don't provide it with something encrypted, so that might have botched something up.  You can usually run the useradd command without the -p option, and then you'll be prompted for a password.  Or you can run 'passwd mh' to be sure it's set right.  But it sounds like you managed to login in a shell, so I guess this is working fine.

Second, make sure that /opt/misterhouse exists.  useradd won't make the home directory for you.  Also be sure that the user permissions for it are set correctly.

You should check the groups that mh is part of, and make sure it's part of the group(s) that have permission to login using the GUI.  I couldn't tell you which groups those are...

You can make changes to the user with 'usermod', but it might be easier to use "userdel mh" to start over.

---

### Post by Habitual on 2012-08-13
> **JimLS said:**
> ...but the command history didn't work...

What history, it's a new user?

---

### Post by bchurchill on 2012-08-13
> **Habitual said:**
> What history, it's a new user?

I presume he means that he cannot create history.  Like if you run 'ls' and then exit the shell, and log back in, then push the up-arrow to see the command history.  Which makes perfect sense if the home directory doesn't exist... because the history is often saved to ~/.bash_history.

---

### Post by Habitual on 2012-08-14
> **bchurchill said:**
> ...You can make changes to the user with 'usermod', but it might be easier to use "userdel mh" to start over.

+1

Unless it's a headless, "he" could use a graphical tool to manipulate users+group membership... :)

---

