---
title: "Resolution problems on fresh install"
date: 2009-05-27
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Shiloh Hawkesworth on 2009-05-27
I have a M2N68-AM PLUS motherboard with an integrated Nvidia GeForce 7025 on it.

I am trying to set my resolution to 1280x1024 and I do not have it as an option.

Here is what my xorg.conf has:




# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by failsafeDexconf, using
# values from the debconf database and some overrides to use vesa mode.
#
# You should use dexconf or another such tool for creating a "real" xorg.conf
# For example:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Configured Video Device"
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor"
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	640	480
		Modes		"640x480@60"
	EndSubSection
	Option		"AddARGBGLXVisuals"	"True"
	Defaultdepth	24
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device"
	Boardname	"NVIDIA GeForce 7 Series"
	Busid		"PCI:0:13:0"
	Driver		"nvidia"
	Screen	0
	Vendorname	"NVIDIA"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"no"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
EndSection

Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor"
	Vendorname	"Plug 'n' Play"
	Modelname	"Plug 'n' Play"
  modeline  "640x480@60" 25.2 640 656 752 800 480 490 492 525 -vsync -hsync
	Gamma	1.0 

EndSection

Section "Extensions"
	Option		"Composite"	"Enable"
EndSection







I am using a Samsung SyncMaster 193T. 
What do I need to add to my xorg.conf file? A new modeline?

thanks
Shiloh

---

### Post by 10Digits on 2009-05-27
Well I am not a rocket scientist but I would have used the Hardware Drivers program in the menu under System.

That should have solved your problem and saved you time.

Maybe, I do not remember correctly but I think there is something to be added under the Device heading>>

Hope this helps....here is a link I found referred to your problem...[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=795997](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=795997)

---

### Post by Shiloh Hawkesworth on 2009-05-27
Forgot to mention that if I enable the video card the screen goes black when I reboot and I have to reset my xserver and reboot the machine to get a screen back.

Any idea why it does that?

---

### Post by nikhilbhardwaj on 2009-05-27
this is my xorg.conf 

Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       31-65
        VertRefresh     50-120
EndSection

Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "Default Screen"
        Monitor         "Configured Monitor"
        Device          "Configured Video Device"
        DefaultDepth    24
             SubSection      "Display"
                Viewport        0 0
                Depth           24
                Modes           "1024x768"
             EndSubSection
EndSection


Section "Module"
    Load    "glx"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Default Device"
    Driver    "nvidia"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection

hopefully this will help
i had the same problem as you but with this the computer automatically starts with the correct resolution

---

### Post by Shiloh Hawkesworth on 2009-05-27
It is still doing the same thing. The video card does work, but for some strange reason I can not enable the Nvidea settings. If I do the screen flickers like it is going to work and then flips back to the wrong resolution.

---

### Post by CatKiller on 2009-05-27
Normally, resolution problems are caused by one of the monitor, the graphics card, or the graphics driver not passing the EDID information to X that lets it automatically set the correct refresh rate, and so it defaults to really low values that won't damage any monitors. You can manually set the values for your monitor by putting the VertRefresh and HorizSync ranges in your xorg.conf. You should be able to get these numbers from the manual or specifications for your monitor. These values go in the "Monitor" Section of xorg.conf.

You can edit xorg.conf with ```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.backup
gksudo gedit /etc/X11/xorg.conf
``````
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "Configured Monitor"
        HorizSync       aa-bb
        VertRefresh     cc-dd
EndSection

```You'll need to replace aa-dd with the values for **your** monitor.

According to the manual I found on Samsung's website, the values that you want are

```
        HorizSync       30-81
        VertRefresh     56-75
```

---

