---
title: "[17.10] Nautilus hidden files issues (by window and by default)"
date: 2018-04-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Beto on 2018-04-01
I can't figure out how to configure some nautilus behaviour in Ubuntu 17.10, which I'm testing installed in an external drive.

If I have two nautilus windows, when I hide/unhide files (Ctrl+h), it does it for all the open nautilus windows, not only the one I'm working on. It didn't behave that way in previous versions, as it hid/unhid only the one currently in use.

Also, when I close Nautilus with "show hidden files" set, when I open it again it continues to be set, but I like it to always start not showing hidden files.

How can I achieve this?

Regards,
--
Beto

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-04-01
See if this helps:
```
gsettings set org.gnome.nautilus.preferences show-hidden-files false
```
I'm assuming you see this in a Wayland session, but the code should work on both X11 and Wayland.

---

### Post by Beto on 2018-04-01
No it doesn't as this only switches the flag.. it is like pressing Ctrl+h when the setting is "show hidden-files". It is not kept as a default and don't work in just one window, but all instances.

Thanks for trying.

---

### Post by mc4man on 2018-04-01
As mentioned elsewhere there is no 'view option' of show hidden files for current window.
It's now either enabled or disabled for all nautilus windows and that's that..

---

### Post by #&amp;thj^% on 2018-04-01
> **mc4man said:**
> As mentioned elsewhere there is no 'view option' of show hidden files for current window.
**It's now either enabled or disabled for all nautilus windows and that's that**..
+100 ;)
Thought the Op meant the setting wasn't sticking...but mc4man is correct enabled or disabled period.
> but I like it to always start not showing hidden files.

How can I achieve this?
Regards

---

