---
title: "14.04.1 lightdm-gtk-greeter issues"
date: 2015-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by nep-nori on 2015-01-14
Ok I'm running a 14.04.1 LTS Ubuntu built-up from the netboot mini.iso with XFCE4 (not Xubuntu) as its DE.

Everything works perfectly but lightdm-gtk-greeter seems to be quirky about certain things, and this is something that didn't happen when I ran vanilla Ubuntu and vanilla Lubuntu.

So far:

-Changing the BG through /etc/lightdm/lightdm-gtk-greeter.conf doesn't work, and it used to on vanilla distros.

-Disabling the guest account via ```
sudo sh -c 'printf "[SeatDefaults]\nallow-guest=false\n" >/usr/share/lightdm/lightdm.conf.d/50-no-guest.conf'
``` doesn't work.

-Hiding the user list via ```
sudo sh -c 'printf "[SeatDefaults]\ngreeter-hide-users=true\n" >/usr/share/lightdm/lightdm.conf.d/50-hide-users.conf'
``` doesn't work.

-Enabling the manual login box via ```
sudo sh -c 'printf "[SeatDefaults]\ngreeter-show-manual-login=true\n" >/usr/share/lightdm/lightdm.conf.d/50-manual-login.conf'
``` doesn't work.

What am I doing wrong? or is this an actual issue with Ubuntu or XFCE?

---

### Post by nep-nori on 2015-01-16
Mind you, these are solutions found on help.ubuntu.com so one might expect them to actually work.

---

### Post by Dennis N on 2015-01-17
The file **/etc/lightdm/lightdm-gtk-greeter.conf** is ignored in Xubuntu for setting the greeter background, and it may inherit this behavior from xfce4. I can't say for sure, since I have no system with an add-on install of xfce environment. The rule in Xubuntu is that your lightdm greeter has the same background as your Desktop. No way you can change it that I know of. On a two user system, as soon as you choose another user from the drop down, the background switches to that of the 2nd user's Desktop.

---

### Post by nep-nori on 2015-01-17
> **Dennis N said:**
> The file **/etc/lightdm/lightdm-gtk-greeter.conf** is ignored in Xubuntu for setting the greeter background, and it may inherit this behavior from xfce4. I can't say for sure, since I have no system with an add-on install of xfce environment. The rule in Xubuntu is that your lightdm greeter has the same background as your Desktop.

That would be fine, but what I get right now is just a black bg. Even then that would be ok if I could disable the guest account and switch from the drop down menu to manually entering usernames...

---

### Post by nep-nori on 2015-02-09
So after experimenting for weeks with stuff like nodm I decided to give lightdm another shot, and while I still can't get it to display a custom wall for whatever reason, I did manage to both disable guest sessions and enable the manual login.

Done the graphical way (sudo thunar) go to /usr/share/lightdm/lightdm.conf.d and create a file named "50-myconfig.conf", open it with leafpad and type:

[SeatDefaults]
allow-guest=false
greeter-hide-users=true

This was actually a super easy fix for something so annoying. I'm guessing these problems are specific to the gtk-greeter specifically... anyway, thread marked as solved.

---

