---
title: "11.04 Strange Compiz issues"
date: 2011-05-02
forum: General Help
---

### Post by catlover2 on 2011-05-02
Hello, 

I recently upgraded to Natty, and Compiz and a couple other things didn't work.

I just reinstalled, thinking that would resolve the problem, bit it didn't.

If I log in to Ubuntu Classic, everything works fine until I change something in ccsm.
I'm not sure which setting does it, but windows will not move, animations are screwed up, wobbly windows don't work etc etc...

If I try to install simple-ccsm, I get this, which makes me think those 'Broken' packages are messing something up.

```
reed@Reeds-custom-computer:~$ sudo apt-get install simple-ccsm
[sudo] password for reed: 
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 simple-ccsm : Depends: python-compizconfig (>= 0.8.2) but it is not going to be installed
               Depends: compizconfig-settings-manager (>= 0.8.2) but it is not going to be installed
E: Broken packages
reed@Reeds-custom-computer:~$ 

```Any ideas?

Catlover

---

### Post by Nerotriple6 on 2011-05-02
Assuming you upgraded from Maverick? I'm tired and not very experienced but lets see what my head can boil up.

You had no issues in Maverick? What videocard are you running?
Are you using the same Home folder as you did in Maverick? (I have Home on it's own partition and Compiz has a hidden folder there) perhaps you could try to uninstall CCSM, delete the .compiz folder located in /home/username/ if it's there and reinstall CCSM?

I had problems in Unity and switched to Ubuntu Classic with Gnome 2 and it works just like it did in Maverick.

Uhm if my tired head complicated things... :P:P

[LIST]
[*]Uninstall Compiz
[*]Delete .compiz folder in /home/username/
[*]Reinstall CCSM
[*]Log into Classic Ubuntu, see if it works
[*]Log into Unity, see if works
[/LIST]

Hope this helps:D

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2011-05-02
```
 compizconfig-settings-manager:
 Depends: python-compizconfig but it is not going to be installed

```Wha? 
Why isn't it going to be installed?

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2011-05-02
Ok, now I'll explain in more detail.

I did a fresh install, not upgrade.
No issues in maverick,ATI Radeon HD 4250.
Yes, same home folder.

---

### Post by THE CARTER on 2011-05-02
It is probably the desktop cube setting; I edited it and screwed up my whole computer.  If you look on omgubuntu (omgubuntu.co.uk), they say that natty does not have support for desktop cube, even though there is still an option to enable it.

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2011-05-02
Hmmm, now the only thing that won't work is dragging windows, I'm really confused now

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2011-05-02
> **THE CARTER said:**
> It is probably the desktop cube setting; I edited it and screwed up my whole computer.  If you look on omgubuntu (omgubuntu.co.uk), they say that natty does not have support for desktop cube, even though there is still an option to enable it.
This is not true.  It is unity that you can't use the desktop cube with, because it needs another plugin that conflicts with the desktop cube (maybe the desktop wall?) The cube plugin works just fine in gnome2 (classic,) xfce & kde on natty.

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2011-05-02
Ok, now it seems i have reached a stable point.

Compiz i guess is "working" but it will not 'obey' ccsm.

Any setting that i change there does not get applied, even if I reload the window manager.

I don't have much hope of resolving this problem, being able to suspend with xhci_hcd in 11.04 is better than having Compiz in 10.10.


Thanks, Catlover

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2011-05-03
There is no longer a .compiz in my home folder it is now .compiz-1 

I can't enable compiz in Classic after the upgrade. Was working fine before. Metacity works, but when I log in, there is only one desktop. I then have to change to --compiz-replace using the fusion-icon, and then change back to metacity. In compiz, all the windows are stuck. I've tried reinstalling compiz, unsetting compiz with gconf-tool and pretty much everything. Any ideas?

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2011-05-03
> **afrodeity said:**
> There is no longer a .compiz in my home folder it is now .compiz-1 

I can't enable compiz in Classic after the upgrade. Was working fine before. Metacity works, but when I log in, there is only one desktop. I then have to change to --compiz-replace using the fusion-icon, and then change back to metacity. In compiz, all the windows are stuck. I've tried reinstalling compiz, unsetting compiz with gconf-tool and pretty much everything. Any ideas?
Adjust the plugins that you want with ccsm, making sure that you have, at least, Composite, OpenGL, Window Decoration, Move Window & Resize Window.  Then: in the terminal 
```
compiz --replace ccp &
``` to launch compiz and 
```
gtk-window-decorator --replace &
```to get window decorations.

---

### Post by Peter09 on 2011-05-03
In Unity you can
```
unity --reset
```
in a terminal, which may set everything back to a working default.

---

### Post by Nerotriple6 on 2011-05-03
I have the idea that Compiz and Unity doesn't like eachother. I'm using Ubuntu Classic on Natty and the first thing I noticed was performance boost. That and that the plugins works.
In Unity some plugins and especially Blur didn't work at all almost (only active blur) so there are definitely problems with Unity and Compiz. Unity panel got screwed when changing settings in Ccsm, Compiz crashing when changing settings and at random...

My Home folder in Natty has a .compiz folder. No clue why yours say .compiz-1...

---

### Post by afrodeity on 2011-05-03
> **andrewthomas said:**
> Adjust the plugins that you want with ccsm, making sure that you have, at least, Composite, OpenGL, Window Decoration, Move Window & Resize Window.  Then: in the terminal 
```
compiz --replace ccp &
``` to launch compiz and 
```
gtk-window-decorator --replace &
```to get window decorations.

The missing tab in System > Preferences > Appearance should have provided me with a clue. **Compiz will only function in Classic if the basic set of plugins are activated**. Doh! I feel a bit stupid now for not eliminating this possiblity, there I was filing bugs and getting into Compiz Core and about to build an alternative compositor. Thank you. Peace & Harmony has been restored. :) :)

PS: Only thing which is still broken is Emerald which segfaults for some reason.

PPS: Two day upgrade, and a three day bug hunt later, and problem is solved in a sense, and there I was thinking it would take months to get a stable Compiz, thank you andrewthomas you win the sudoku prize.

---

### Post by pages on 2011-05-03
I think I might be having somewhat similar issues to you so instead of a new thread i thought i'd add it here...

I upgraded from 10.10 there and always had the basic effects effects enabled. 
When I started 11.04 at first it was fine but i began to notice applications opening with a blank screen, usually i'd close it and reopen and it would sometimes fix the issue but the longer it went on the worse it got . It reached the point where i could only have 1 application open and anything else which was opened would be a blank white screen

Thinking it was a Unity problem I loaded classic Ubuntu but the same issue persisted.
Now I load the classic (no effects) and everything works fine.

It might not be the biggest issue in the world but I would like to get back the "cool look" of Ubuntu instead of this basic version ... Any advice ?

---

### Post by andrewthomas on 2011-05-03
> **afrodeity said:**
> 

PS: Only thing which is still broken is Emerald which segfaults for some reason.


Check out my post here:
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10757398&postcount=11](http://ubuntuforums.org/showpost.php?p=10757398&postcount=11)

If you are on amd64, I have working emerald and emerald-themes packages.

---

### Post by madjr on 2011-05-03
reseting:
[http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/how-to-reset-unity-launcher-icons-or.html](http://www.webupd8.org/2011/04/how-to-reset-unity-launcher-icons-or.html)

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2011-05-05
> **andrewthomas said:**
> Adjust the plugins that you want with ccsm, making sure that you have, at least, Composite, OpenGL, Window Decoration, Move Window & Resize Window.  Then: in the terminal 
```
compiz --replace ccp &
``` to launch compiz and 
```
gtk-window-decorator --replace &
```to get window decorations.


Well, it sort of worked.
doing ```
compiz --replace ccp
```acts as the nonexistent 'apply' button in ccsm, then ```
gtk-window-decoator --replace
```gives me borders.

now, the only two problems are, 
1. I have to run those two commands every startup (or just go into a no effects session)
2.the framerates are *really* horrible, (they do not look above 10fps) while in maverick they were fine.


Another thought, if i launch fusion-icon, and select indirect rendering, the the framerates are smooth, and i gave to run```
gtk-window-decorator --replace
```again.

Catlover

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2011-05-05
Hey, and don't forget that if i try to install simple-ccsm:

So it there really are broken packages, perhaps that is part of the problem? 
```

reed@Reeds-custom-computer:~$ sudo apt-get install simple-ccsm
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
 simple-ccsm : Depends: python-compizconfig (>= 0.8.2) but it is not going to be installed
               Depends: compizconfig-settings-manager (>= 0.8.2) but it is not going to be installed
E: Broken packages
reed@Reeds-custom-computer:~$ 

``````
reed@Reeds-custom-computer:~$ sudo apt-get install python-compizconfig compizconfig-settings-manager
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
compizconfig-settings-manager is already the newest version.
python-compizconfig is already the newest version.
python-compizconfig set to manually installed.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required:
  libirrlicht1.7a libenet0debian1
Use 'apt-get autoremove' to remove them.
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and 0 not upgraded.
reed@Reeds-custom-computer:~$ 

```What does 'set to manually installed' mean?

---

### Post by Hulmemanitarian on 2011-06-25
Have the exact same problem. Running classic ubuntu in natty and can't install the simple ccsm? Seems some of the options are also missing in the CompizConfig settings manager too? :confused: It's weird, but I can only access two of my four work areas from my launcher. Which is Docky? None of the above mentioned issues have done anything to curb my enthusiasm for ubuntu.

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2011-06-25
I assume you've checked your video drivers are OK?  Low frame rates etc sounds more like a video driver issue than a compiz issue to me.

---

### Post by catlover2 on 2011-06-25
If anything helps over here([http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1729316&page=3](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1729316&page=3)), I mentioned that Compiz didn't work, and I fixed it by upgrading my graphics drivers.

Also turning off sync to vblank (from CCSM) went from choppy to 120FPS.

Sorry for it being on an irrelevant thread.

catlover

---

