---
title: "8.10 fonts not quite as nice as 7.10"
date: 2009-01-11
forum: General Help
---

### Post by peterx14 on 2009-01-11
Hi all,

I'm trying to migrate to Ubuntu 8.10 so I'm installing it on an external drive whilst I test everything. A slight issue I'm having is with font rendering.

The attached screen grab (of [this page](https://help.ubuntu.com/community/Logitech_Marblemouse_USB)) shows a page in Firefox on 8.10 with the same page in 7.10 underneath. If you look at the paragraph text on 8.10, some of the letters seem heavier than others, e.g. the 'w' and 'X', but also the 'e' is a bit strange when compared with how it all rendered in 7.10.

The monospaced font is clearly different, so it may be that the paragraph font isn't identical either and that would explain the problem. Or it could be a difference between Firefox 2 and Firefox 3?

Just in case it's relevant, I'm using an nVidia 6200. 8.10 is running the 177 drivers and 7.10 has whatever the latest drivers are for that version! (I can't see what drivers they actually are).

Thanks in advance! :D

Peter.

---

### Post by peterx14 on 2009-01-11
Appologies all for the duplicate posts -- the forum was showing a proxy error or something, so I assumed it had not posted! :(

---

### Post by ajcham on 2009-01-11
Is it only in Firefox where you are unhappy with font rendering?
If so... Edit » Preferences » Content » Fonts and Colours

You can change default fonts here for Sans, Serif and Monospace in the Advanced option. Also, uncheck 'Allow pages to choose their own fonts'.

I recommend FreeSans as the default font - I've changed it to this and it looks much slicker than it did before.

BTW, I've alerted the Mods to the duplicate threads, and they've now been locked. (Stupidly, I first posted my reply to one of the dupes that I'd reported, so am having to repost it here!)

This is how that page looks in FreeSans (the monospace font here is FreeMono, you could change that also if you prefer the old one).
[ATTACH]99464[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by peterx14 on 2009-01-11
Thanks for the quick reply -- and for contacting the Mods for me! :D

I've just tried comparing screen grabs from both OSes and it seems to only be certain pages that are more affected; and it seems to only be in Firefox, although its probably font related rather than Firefox related.

So I might leave it as-is for the minute. I'd try tweaking the Firefox setting as you suggested except that I do a lot of web-dev and I need the browser to be consistent with most other users... albeit I have to test under Windows anyway.

Cheers!

---

### Post by ajcham on 2009-01-11
> **peterx14 said:**
> I'd try tweaking the Firefox setting as you suggested except that I do a lot of web-dev and I need the browser to be consistent with most other users...


Maybe this will be of interest: [http://support.mozilla.com/en-US/kb/Managing+profiles](http://support.mozilla.com/en-US/kb/Managing+profiles)

You could have one Firefox profile for browsing (with better fonts), and another for testing (with the defaults).

---

### Post by peterx14 on 2009-01-11
After a bunch of googling, I found the issue covered by [bug #220568](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/220568). As I understand it, the issue arises because FF3 has more advanced font rendering code which in turn shows up problems with some fonts. I think!

It _seems_ that when a website specifies Helvetica, the Nimbus Sans L font is used instead and it's this that renders poorly. So I'm getting around this using [Michael Blakeley's post](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/220568/comments/27) and creating a ~/.fonts.conf (I didn't have one by default). I tweaked the XML slightly since I haven't observed an problems with Times New Roman, and I preferred DejaVu Sans Mono over Courier New. So my fonts.conf current reads:

```

<?xml version='1.0'?>
<!DOCTYPE fontconfig SYSTEM 'fonts.dtd'>
<fontconfig>
 <!-- assign_replace overrides /etc/fonts/conf.d/30-metric-aliases.conf -->
 <!-- See: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/220568  -->
 <!-- and: https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/firefox-3.0/+bug/220568/comments/27 -->
 <match target="pattern">
   <test name="family">
     <string>Helvetica</string>
   </test>
   <edit name="family" mode="assign_replace">
     <string>Arial</string>
   </edit>
 </match>
 <match target="pattern">
   <test qual="any" name="family">
     <string>Courier</string>
   </test>
   <edit name="family" mode="assign_replace">
     <string>DejaVu Sans Mono</string>
   </edit>
 </match>
</fontconfig>

```

Thanks once again for your help! :D

---

