---
title: "NVIDIA Driver problem on existing 9.04 installation"
date: 2009-11-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Ex-Des on 2009-11-28
Greetings,
A problem suddenly cropped up on a stable ubuntu 9.04 installation. I am using a GeForce4 Ti4600 video card on a dual monitor installation. This system had worked fine without any issues for months. Yesterday the system apparently went squirrely, i.e, text started scrolling erratically on multiple windows, applications opened and closed by themselves and the system hung up and crashed. It appears that the keyboard failed catastrophically and was sending random characters to the computer.

I followed up on several similar posts, but these were different enough that they didn't seem to help. I did try some of the suggestions, but at the same time reluctant to make too many significant changes as this was a stable working system and was afraid to corrupt the system any further. This is my engineering machine that is used only for work and its functioning is critical. Thats why I use Ubuntu - I've used it for years and it's practically bulletproof.

When I rebooted, the system gave me the messages 
"Failed to load module "Freetype" (module does not exist)"  and
"Failed to load module "Freetype" (module does not exist)"

and gives an options dialog that lets me boot into low resolution mode. It then restarts the gdm. At that point I'm given a message that an xserver is already running on device0, and prompts if an new one should be started. It appears to only let me choose 'YES'.

The xorg.conf is as follows:





[I]# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 1.0  (buildmeister@builder57)  Sat Jan 24 20:04:42 PST 2009

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 1.0  (buildd@palmer)  Sun Feb  1 20:21:04 UTC 2009

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    InputDevice    "stylus" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "eraser" "SendCoreEvents"
    InputDevice    "cursor" "SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "Module"
    Load           "dbe"
    Load           "extmod"
    Load           "type1"
    Load           "freetype"
    Load           "glx"
EndSection

Section "ServerFlags"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"

    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "stylus"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/ttyS0"
    Option         "Type" "stylus"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "eraser"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/ttyS0"
    Option         "Type" "eraser"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    Identifier     "cursor"
    Driver         "wacom"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/ttyS0"
    Option         "Type" "cursor"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"

    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Samsung SyncMaster"
    HorizSync       30.0 - 81.0
    VertRefresh     56.0 - 60.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "GeForce4 Ti 4600"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "1"
    Option         "metamodes" "CRT: 1920x1200 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1920+0; CRT: 1280x1024 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1280+0; CRT: 1024x768 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +1024+0; CRT: 800x600 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +800+0; CRT: 640x480 +0+0, DFP: nvidia-auto-select +640+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection
[/I]



When I attempt to enter nvidia-settings, I'm given this message:

You do not appear to be using the NVIDIA X driver. Please edit your X configuration file (just run `nvidia-xconfig` as root), and restart the X server. 

Running nvidia-xconfig and restarting the x-server does not seem to help.


Any help is greatly appreciated.
-Axel-

---

### Post by Ex-Des on 2009-11-29
Problem fixed. 

Did reinstall of nvidia drivers under 9.04 and ran 'sudo nvidia-xconfig', then restarted xserver. Still not working.

Upgraded to 9.10 - problem continued. Completely uninstalled and re-installed nvidia drivers. Ran 'sudo nvidia-xconfig' and restarted xserver. Problem went away.

---

