---
title: "14.04 LTS - Shutting down on its own, only happens when computer is idle"
date: 2016-09-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by cjt20one on 2016-09-06
I'm not sure the best way to describe the situation but it appears that my desktop running 14.04 LTS is haunted. :)

The machine shuts down on its own after 5-15 minutes of inactivity but it's not a cold shutdown as far as I can tell.  I'll try to take a cell phone pic if I can catch the screen again but it's as if someone started the shutdown process.  I get the screen that says "Hello User, what would you like to do?  Shutdown, reboot, hibernate" where each power option is a big tile but it's at the lock screen.  Very odd. 

I have the power settings set to "don't suspend".

1) It's a custom built desktop that's three years old, I can list the specs later if needed but I have a suspicion it's a software issue.  The machine has run flawlessly until this issue.
2) I had a spare power supply and RAM that I installed, it did not resolve the problem.
3) I tried a different UPS and a different wall outlet, didn't help.
4) CPU temp is sub-40 C

1) What's the best method to check shutdown logs to determine if it's a proper shutdown?
2) Any other ideas on what to investigate?

I've been working on the desktop this morning for two hours and it's been fine.  I had streaming radio going while making breakfast for 15-20 minutes and it did not shutdown.  My hunch is that a software update broke something, that or the mobo is on its way out.

Thanks in advance for any help!

---

### Post by cjt20one on 2016-09-06
This is what pops up on its own...

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/KuyLD4l.jpg[/IMG]


Something is trying to initiate a shutdown.  In fact, it's happening constantly right now which is a new development.  Every 1-2 minutes, some times less (just had two that were only 10 seconds apart.

---

### Post by Shobuz99 on 2016-09-06
> **cjt20one said:**
> This is what pops up on its own...

[IMG]http://i.imgur.com/KuyLD4l.jpg[/IMG]


Something is trying to initiate a shutdown.  In fact, it's happening constantly right now which is a new development.  Every 1-2 minutes, some times less (just had two that were only 10 seconds apart.

Just curious. 
Have you gone to System Settings and then Power and checked the settings for "Suspend when inactive for" ???
Mine is set to "Don't Suspend". What's yours set to? 

Shobuz99

---

### Post by ian-weisser on 2016-09-07
Look in /var/log/syslog for clues.

---

