---
title: "9.10, 10.04 Random Memory Leak"
date: 2010-05-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-05-09
I keep having a memory usage problem.  This occurred randomly every once in a while in 9.10 and just happened again in 10.04.
What happens is, when I turn the computer on, right after I log in, I'll notice it takes an abnormally long time for the desktop to appear.  When I check memory usage in gnome-system-monitor, the system will be using ~350 MB of memory, about 100-200 more than usual, which is a lot considering I only have 480 MB total.  Plus, it will be using some 80 MB of swap.  However, there is no program using more memory than usual in the processes tab.
Because of the amount of swapping being done (despite having some 100 MB of RAM left), all programs run slowly (very slowly) and make the system nearly unusable.  Once it even froze with only 3 programs open, forcing me to hold in the power button for 5 seconds to force-kill it.
Rebooting the computer always solves the memory usage problem.
I do not believe this is the xorg memory leak frequently discussed because the high memory usage comes right when I start up.  I only have the computer on for several hours at a time and the memory usage doesn't noticeably increase during that time period.
Checking the log files does not immediately show me anything, though I have no idea what to look for.
Other sources hint it may have something to do with closed-source video drivers, so I've included my card info here.
sudo lshw -C video:
```
  *-display               
       description: VGA compatible controller
       product: 82865G Integrated Graphics Controller
       vendor: Intel Corporation
       physical id: 2
       bus info: pci@0000:00:02.0
       version: 02
       width: 32 bits
       clock: 33MHz
       capabilities: pm bus_master cap_list rom
       configuration: driver=i915 latency=0
       resources: irq:16 memory:f0000000-f7ffffff(prefetchable) memory:fe780000-fe7fffff ioport:ec00(size=8)

```sudo hwinfo --gfxcard
```
11: PCI 02.0: 0300 VGA compatible controller (VGA)              
  [Created at pci.318]
  UDI: /org/freedesktop/Hal/devices/pci_8086_2572
  Unique ID: _Znp.6KAz8n86w0D
  SysFS ID: /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.0
  SysFS BusID: 0000:00:02.0
  Hardware Class: graphics card
  Model: "Intel 865 G"
  Vendor: pci 0x8086 "Intel Corporation"
  Device: pci 0x2572 "865 G"
  SubVendor: pci 0x1043 "ASUSTeK Computer Inc."
  SubDevice: pci 0x80a5 "P5P800-MX Mainboard"
  Revision: 0x02
  Driver: "i915"
  Driver Modules: "drm"
  Memory Range: 0xf0000000-0xf7ffffff (rw,prefetchable)
  Memory Range: 0xfe780000-0xfe7fffff (rw,non-prefetchable)
  I/O Ports: 0xec00-0xec07 (rw)
  IRQ: 16 (123845 events)
  I/O Ports: 0x3c0-0x3df (rw)
  Module Alias: "pci:v00008086d00002572sv00001043sd000080A5bc03sc00i00"
  Driver Info #0:
    XFree86 v4 Server Module: intel
  Driver Info #1:
    XFree86 v4 Server Module: intel
    3D Support: yes
    Extensions: dri
  Config Status: cfg=new, avail=yes, need=no, active=unknown

Primary display adapter: #11

```Hope that helps.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-05-21
Just happened again today.  This time, I'm fairly sure there were no problems before the login; however, as soon as I logged in, I could tell something was wrong.  Could this be something in GNOME?

---

### Post by akakingess on 2010-05-21
I don't really have much of a suggestion for you other than to try out Puppy Linux, which uses Ubuntu, and has just released their version using 10.04 just recently. It is designed to work better with less resources, i.e. older hardware, less RAM, etc.

---

### Post by Mouth on 2010-05-25
I have the same problem with 10.04 on an eeePC with 1Gb RAM.

Start the system to esktop, and it's already using ~360Mb RAM. Within a few minutes of sitting idle, it's up to ~480Mb. Give it 10-15mins and it's using ~980Mb and starting to much away at disk swap.

I have ensured all non-essential services are not active for startup, and even removed any fstab connections to ensure it is not that. It must fundamentally be at the core of Ubuntu 10.04.

Memory is leaking like a sieve.

It's a LARGE problem with Ubuntu 10.04 too....

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471320](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471320)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477988](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1477988)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471400](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1471400)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1488493](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1488493)
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1489741](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1489741)

I'm happy to work with someone to diagnose, but just don't know what sort of data reporting I can provide that will be helpful.

Thanks.

---

### Post by Azyx on 2010-05-25
Do you have checked 'all processes' under View in 'System monitor' and what do you look at, when you conclude that no processes use more memory than normal? 'Virtual meemory', 'X-server memory' or Memory?

/Cheers

---

### Post by psycho5 on 2010-05-25
Hey, I have a similar problem with my computer, I am running with 2gb ram. Everytime I log in, ubuntu takes a few extra seconds just to load the wallpaper, panel, and the desktop icons. The first thing that starts up is actually the awn dock manager. It's not a BIG problem for me, but reading this post, I think it might be related to your issue. 

Also, you should try removing some of the processes and programs from startup, the ones you don't use. For example, for me, I remove the bluetooth manager and CUPS, since I don't have bluetooth on my desktop and I don't use a printer. It helps, but really, all in all for my case its not that big of an issue, cause once the desktop is loaded, everything is silky smooth. =)

I think for me it might be fstab mounting my partitions that causes the slight delay, but who knows.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-05-25
Thanks, Azyx.  I never realized gnome-resource-monitor wasn't showing all processes.  I'll have to see what happens next time I have this memory error.
Also, I already have unchecked unnecessary processes from the startup list - in fact, when I first installed 10.04, I came close to unchecking stuff that I now realize are probably important!
However, Mouth, I don't think your problem is the same as mine.  I've never noticed a substantial increase in memory while the computer was running - if any, it was maybe 50 MiB.  I'll look at some of those links though.

---

### Post by Mal Bridgeman on 2010-05-26
[COLOR=DarkRed]I have noticed this too 

A reboot cleans it up and keeps the RAM usage down for a couple of days for me.

HTH
Mal[/COLOR]

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2010-05-26
I think I have a memory leak in Lucid as well. The RAM usage starts off quite high ~700MB and over the course of a few hours it goes up. It was over 1GB in my last session with only Firefox open - something I've never seen before. 

There's nothing obvious in top or htop, the RAM just increases over time. It doesn't cause me any performance issues though.

.

---

### Post by asadjb on 2010-05-26
Don't know if this is something related to the memory leak or may be it's just a feature I don't understand, but 'top' and 'gnome-system-monitor' report different memory statistics.

And I also have the memory issue. A couple of hours (1 or 2) of continued usage makes the memory usage go up to around 960 MB or so and the system becomes almost unusable. I don't think this is a Xorg issue, as the memory usage for the Xorg process is shown to be quite low when seen using 'top'.

An image of the difference between the memory stats of 'top' and GSM is attached.
[ATTACH]158378[/ATTACH]

I'm using Ubuntu 10.04. 'uname -r' gives: 2.6.32-22-generic
I'd really like to help diagnose this problem in any way I can.

---

### Post by swizman on 2010-05-26
[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1474932](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1474932)

---

### Post by Sealbhach on 2010-05-26
> **swizman said:**
> [http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1474932](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1474932)

Thanks! Re-profiling seems to have brought down my RAM to normal levels again.

.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-05-28
It happened again today.  I've managed to collect some info about it compared to a normal boot.
Attached is a file with the output of top, free -m, and a count of the number of processes in gnome-system-monitor.
Also, I think I know what's causing the statistics difference between top and system-monitor, asadjb.  top counts caches and buffers while system-monitor does not.  You can see this by using free -m, which shows memory usage with and without caches/buffers.
What I've concluded:
- the *total* memory usage (with caches and buffers) is about the same in a normal and high memory boot; during a normal boot, most of the leftover space is claimed by the caches and buffers.
- even when run under gksudo, gnome-system-monitor contains around 80 'unknown' processes: processes marked by a gear icon and who's memory usage (all types) is always N/A.  Could these be taking up the rest of the memory?
- when doing an approximate summation of the memory (under the tab that just says Memory) in gnome-system-monitor, it never approaches the amount of used memory during a normal boot.
Anyone know what to make of this?
A few more answers means a lot more questions.

P.S.- thanks swizman! I've noticed a 10-20 second decrease in boot time in the one boot since I reprofiled.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-05-31
I was wondering if this was possibly an once-every-xxx-boots kind of thing but it apparently isn't.  After going a large number of boots between two occurrences, it happened after only 2 boots.

---

### Post by sdennie on 2010-05-31
My guess is that some process is intermittently doing a lot of disk access that pushes used memory into swap.  If you have on the order of 512M of RAM, this is very plausible.  One thing you could try would be to set the swappiness lower.  This will prevent a background, disk hungry application from evicting used RAM to swap and might fix your problem.  Just add the following to /etc/sysctl.conf:

```

vm.swappiness = 1

```

On subsequent reboots, hopefully the problem will no longer appear.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-06-01
Yes, I do have less than 512 MB of RAM, so this sounds plausible.  I already have vm.swappiness set to 10; so far, I haven't noticed too much difference, though I haven't been able to test it much.
Note about the 'unknown' processes (with memory N/A and gear icon): these are all processes that are spawned by kthreadd (and kthreadd itself).  Does anyone know why they have memory usage as N/A in all categories?  Any ideas how to show their memory usage?

---

### Post by lavinog on 2010-06-07
Make sure you turn off desktop effects.  There seems to be a memory leak with some video drivers and glx.
If running glxinfo suddenly frees a bunch of memory, this might be the issue.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-06-07
I will admit that I do have compiz running with a bunch of effects enabled.  HOWEVER, this memory leak has been occurring since way before I discovered compiz or had any effects enabled.  I'll try the glxinfo thing next time this happens, though.

---

### Post by arkixml on 2010-06-08
I think I'm having this problem too. About half the time Ubuntu uses ~200 Mb at login and the other half of the time its ~1GB. However, it doesn't seem to grow a memory leak usually does.

I have 4GB of RAM total. It takes about 10-15 seconds to log in when the system appears to be doing nothing.

I'll try reprofiling and see if that helps. Let's get this fixed.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-06-09
Oh dear, it happened again!  I reprofiled a while a go, so that didn't help.  Running 'glxinfo' and 'sudo glxinfo' freed no memory.  Logging out, logging into another account, logging out of that and then back into my normal one didn't free up any memory except a little due to the difference in settings (e. g. compiz vs. metacity).  Switching from compiz to metacity and back on my normal account didn't due much, either.
The strangest thing, though, (and this may not be related to the memory issue) is that after I logged in but before the desktop, background, and panels appeared, the screen suddenly went all white for about 10 seconds when usually I'd have seen the login background image.  Any ideas?
Also, I've noticed that when running compiz at the terminal, I get messages like:
```
WARNING: Application calling GLX 1.3 function "glXCreatePixmap" when GLX 1.3 is not supported!  This is an application bug!
compiz (cube) - Warn: Failed to load slide: /usr/share/gdm/themes/Human/ubuntu.png
compiz (cube) - Warn: Failed to load slide: 
WARNING: Application calling GLX 1.3 function "glXDestroyPixmap" when GLX 1.3 is not supported!  This is an application bug!
```Could this be where some leaking is occurring?
Also, arkixml - keep us updated.  Your problem sounds exactly like mine.  Run some tests when this kind of thing happens and see if you can find any differences between a normal boot and a "leaky" boot.
If anyone has any suggestions about what to do next time this happens, please post them.  Also if anyone requests that I attach a certain log file I will be happy to oblige.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-06-10
arkixml, I think we may find something by looking for similarities between our systems.  Since I still suspect something to do with certain hardware devices and their drivers, could you attach the output of sudo lshw in a post?  I've attached mine in this one.

---

### Post by charlie cat on 2010-06-11
This seems to be happening more and more frequently.  I'm starting to suspect a link between certain updates and the leak, though this could be just two random patterns coinciding.  I'll do some more tests on that, though.

---

### Post by jwe080 on 2010-06-26
I've got the same problem which occurs when I'm drawing figures in ipython, more and more RAM gets consumed as I render more figures.  It's not ipython that's hogging the memory because the RAM's not released when I quit ipython.  Memory isn't relased on anything except reboot (not logout, not closing all processes).  Is there a way of freeing up the used memory?

---

