---
title: ".flv video converter"
date: 2008-12-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by yoman82 on 2008-12-22
I need a converter that will take a .flv video and transform it into a .mpg or something, from which I can strip the audio and convert it into a .mp3. I do not care what the intermediate form is, but I cannot seem to find a program that can do this. I'm willing to use several programs to accomplish my goal, and I would prefer that they're graphical, although this is not a necessity. Thank you so much for the help.

---

### Post by Xarver on 2008-12-22
Maybe [this thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=298766") will help you.
IF not, maybe [this website]("http://vixy.net/") will work?

~ Xarver :)

---

### Post by yoman82 on 2008-12-22
I just found out that I had FFMPEG already installed because of NWC. I had never used that feature of it before. Thanks for the help.

---

### Post by Jose Catre-Vandis on 2008-12-22
Using ffmpeg

Convert flv to mpg
```
ffmpeg -i original_file.flv new_file.mpg
```

Make mp3 from mpg
```
ffmpeg -i input.mpg -vn output.mp3
```

(In fact one can work straight from the flv file without having to convert)

---

### Post by nycjeff on 2009-02-12
Ooh, that worked pretty well. 
if I wanted to convert an .avi file to a .flv file, but include the audio portion, how would I modify that ffmpeg command?

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2009-02-12
Why convert from flv to mpeg to mp3?  That's two generations of quality loss.  If the flv already contains mp3 audio you can just copy the audio stream with no encoding and no quality loss because it's just a copy.  First find out what is in the flv:
```
ffmpeg -i yourinputfile.flv
```
FFmpeg will spit out a bunch of information, but the important part is the audio details:
```
Stream #0.1: Audio: mp3, 22050 Hz, mono, s16, 56 kb/s
```
This example uses mp3 audio, so now we just copy that audio:
```
ffmpeg -i yourinputfile.flv -acodec copy outputfile.mp3
```
> **nycjeff said:**
> 
if I wanted to convert an .avi file to a .flv file, but include the audio portion, how would I modify that ffmpeg command?
```
ffmpeg -i input.avi -sameq -ar 44100 output.flv
```
This will create a video with adpcm_swf audio, a codec I'm not very familiar with.  The "sameq" option tells FFmpeg to adjust the output video bitrate so it approximately matches the quality of the input.  Alternatively you could just set the bitrate: "-b 512k" for example.

Most flv seem to use mp3 audio, but you will need to install either the **ubuntu-restricted-extras** metapackage or the much smaller **libavcodec-unstripped-5*** package then use this command:
```
ffmpeg -i input.avi -sameq -ar 44100 -acodec libmp3lame output.flv
```

---

### Post by nycjeff on 2009-02-12
Thanks FakeOutdoorsman.
When I type:
ffmpeg -i input.avi -sameq -ar 44100 -acodec libmp3lame output.flv

it tells me libmp3lame is an unknown codec. I just installed the restricted extras package, although I thought I had libmp3lame from other things.

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2009-02-13
What version of Ubuntu are you using?  I was assuming Intrepid.

---

### Post by pPrdrm on 2009-02-13
Thank you very much FakeOutdoorsman.
I was trying to separate the sound from an flv file and I was stuck.For this things I was using Avidemux but it had some problems with the sound of certain flv files. It only played the video with no sound. I don't know why. Your trick did it.
By the way, VLC also had problems with those files giving me this message: "**VLC does not support the audio or video format "undf". Unfortunately there is no way for you to fix this.**". I think that VLC also uses ffmpeg for decoding (Avidemux mabe too). Why the stand alone ffmpeg can handle this files and the other programs can't? After all there where simple mp3 format sounds. Nothing exotic. Strange.

---

### Post by nycjeff on 2009-02-13
> **FakeOutdoorsman said:**
> What version of Ubuntu are you using?  I was assuming Intrepid.

ahh, I am using Hardy. I'll see if I can upgrade. 
Thanks again.

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2009-02-13
> **nycjeff said:**
> ahh, I am using Hardy. I'll see if I can upgrade. 
Thanks again.
You don't need to upgrade.  Just use FFmpeg from the Medibuntu repository.

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2009-02-14
> **pPrdrm said:**
> Thank you very much FakeOutdoorsman.
I was trying to separate the sound from an flv file and I was stuck.For this things I was using Avidemux but it had some problems with the sound of certain flv files. It only played the video with no sound. I don't know why. Your trick did it.
By the way, VLC also had problems with those files giving me this message: "**VLC does not support the audio or video format "undf". Unfortunately there is no way for you to fix this.**". I think that VLC also uses ffmpeg for decoding (Avidemux mabe too). Why the stand alone ffmpeg can handle this files and the other programs can't? After all there where simple mp3 format sounds. Nothing exotic. Strange.
I don't use Avidemux.  I have VLC installed but rarely use it since MPlayer usually works.  Can you provide a sample of a file that gives the undf error?

---

### Post by pPrdrm on 2009-02-17
Sorry, I can't. But you can find one your self. There are many flv files on youtube that have this problem. And now that youtube will allow users to download videos it will be easy to find such files. I also found a file that VLC played it without problems but AviDemux played only the video and complained about the sound. The sound was in mp3 format (MPEG 2 Audio, Layer 3 (MP3), Stereo, 22050 Hz, 128 kbps). Anyway, it's not something I do a lot so I guess I'm fine.

---

### Post by FakeOutdoorsman on 2009-02-17
I was unable to duplicate the undf error in VLC in Intrepid using standard YouTube videos from the /tmp directory.

---

### Post by cousinit2 on 2009-03-03
I have exactly this problem, and here is a .flv file for all to play with.

[http://rapidshare.com/files/204674869/UNDF_ERRORS.flv.html]("http://rapidshare.com/files/204674869/UNDF_ERRORS.flv.html")

Best of Luck! The file may be audio-only, but it's what I have.

---

