---
title: "U-9.10, the resolution too low or too high and hangs."
date: 2009-12-16
forum: General Help
---

### Post by xpower7 on 2009-12-16
*sigh* Ok... I been trying setting up ubuntu 9.10 on an old Presario 6010US for my mom. After more than 8 hours straight and 5 clean install and a lot of "googling" I can't set the right monitor resolution (1024x768 ). I swear that I going back to XP if I can find the help here, this is to much hassle. :'( As I said, I already googled A LOT and everything I tried doesn't work (editing some xorg.conf file, downloading driver from nvidia site, etc). For full computer spec, check it here: [**http://tinyurl.com/ycy8pcn**]("http://tinyurl.com/ycy8pcn")  (except this one have 768 ram).

Where I'm standing righ now: 

Righ now, Ubuntu is installed, is already updated and is runing pretty well. The problem is I can't get the higher resolution (1024x768 ) for this video card (geforce2) to work. Only 800x600. Ubuntu recomended me to activate the nvidia drivers. If I do that, after the restart, the computer tries to use the max resolution for this monitor (1440x900), a resolution that this video card can't support, then the computer freezes and don't respond. Same thing happened with the downloaded drivers from nvidia site. 

Also, where the heck is the recovery mode? I just start to press keys like crazy when booting and the gui crash, that's how I prevent the gui from loading so I can use the terminal prompt thing. Ok... HELP?!

---

### Post by xpower7 on 2009-12-16
Anyone?

---

### Post by smilingfrog on 2009-12-16
First of all welcome to the Linux Learning curve. They are growing pains, but most definitely worth it if you stick it out.

Regarding your monitor resolution, this may be a problem with a configuration file. I had the same problem, and it drove me mad. Try the following:

- open up a terminal so you can type in commands
- type in: 
```
cd ~/.config
ls -a monitors.xml
```

If this file exists, delete it. 
```
rm monitors.xml
```

This will probably work, but no guarantees.

On the whole, expect six months of frustration with the switch from XP to Linux, but stick with it. I'm happy I did.

---

### Post by xpower7 on 2009-12-17
smilingfrog, thanks for trying to help, didn't work. I'm going back to XP, I'm kind of tired of this and I won't waste more time and sleep. But I'm really grateful of you by trying to help. Here is one little star for you! :KS

---

