---
title: "10.04 Fixed problem with self-reenabling touchpad"
date: 2010-06-13
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Bladtman242 on 2010-06-13
Hi, I don't know how many has had this problem, but I understand I am not the only one:D
The problem is that after using synclient to disable the touchpad in ubuntu 10.04m it would enable itself, seemingly, at random.

Well, what I found was that unchecking  the "Disable touchpad while typing" feature in "System->Preferences->Mouse->Touchpad" will fix the problem.

Apparently the system does not recognize that the user has deliberately disabled the touchpad. And so it will reenable it when the user is done typing.


I Hope someone will find this useful :)


EDIT: And now I see there is a thread for this kind of thing.. my bad :)
This thread can be deleted

---

### Post by arkmundi on 2010-06-14
Thank you so very much!  This works for me too.  I have a Dell Inspiron 1525 and use a Logitech trackman for movement.  Hence the touchpad is a real nuisance - I've had it turned off since 7.10, when I first bought the machine (with Ubuntu preinstalled by Dell).  I upgraded to 10.04 recently and making the touchpad go away has been the most annoysome quirk arising from the upgrade.  Lucid Lynx depricated HAL and XOrg as methods by which to control keyboard, mouse and touchpad events, in favor of udev (dynamic device management), a daemon that sits between the kernel and device event handlers.

The simple equation for turning your synaptics touchpad off (which is used by most laptops, including Dell):
1.  Make sure you have gsynaptics installed. GSynaptics is a GUI configuration tool for the Synaptics touchpad
driver for X server.  Its not installed by default - use synaptic package manager to install it.
2.  System->Preferences->Mouse->Touchpad and uncheck the 'Disable touchpad while typing' box.
3.  Use the menu System->Preferences->Touchpad->General and uncheck the 'Enable Touchpad' box.

Developer note:  it'd be better if by doing #3, #2 was automatic, and would preempt much confusion.

For the equally frustrated, I've tried all avenues and nothing worked but this. None of the steps at [*Howto: Configuring Touchpad*]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1401645") worked, including writing /etc/udev/rules.d/touchpad.rules. The Suggestion at [https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad]("https://help.ubuntu.com/community/SynapticsTouchpad") to uninstall the package xserver-xorg-input-synaptics not only did not work - its wrongheaded.  Doing that will uninstall synclient, and that's a useful tool.  Using terminal and synclient -l provides this useful information:  TouchpadOff = 1, which is the desired state.  Another suggestion, to edit /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d/10-synaptics.conf  and change: MatchIsTouchpad "on" to: MatchIsTouchpad "off" was disastrous.  That suggestion disabled the whole keyboard, so it was impossible to log in after rebooting (yeah, tell me about it.)

For all you Lucid synaptics owners who want your touchpad off, this thread is your salvation.  In less than 5 minutes, you can permanently disable it, and with very little hassle.  Many thanks Bladtman242.

---

### Post by cezzar on 2010-08-23
Hey [COLOR="DarkRed"]arkmundi[/COLOR]; thanks A LOT for this simple solution! It just WORKED!! There were many other suggestions, but all looked scary to me, and I did not want to try :)

---

### Post by mguthrie88 on 2010-10-18
THANK YOU!!!  I just got a new laptop, and it's really nice, but the touchpad is horrible.  I've tried disabling it multiple ways, but couldn't figure out why it kept turning back on.  Thanks for the tip!

---

### Post by Tootler on 2010-10-22
Just a warning. If you use the Synaptic Package Manager, a search will reveal two choices, gsynaptics and gpointing-device-settings. They are mutually exclusive; install one and you can't install the other. If you choose gpointing-device-settings, there is a "touchpad off" setting from a drop down menu. It does disable the touchpad, but only temporarily so choose gsynaptics. The instructions above work fine then.

---

### Post by Tootler on 2010-10-23
> **Tootler said:**
> Just a warning. If you use the Synaptic Package Manager, a search will reveal two choices, gsynaptics and gpointing-device-settings. They are mutually exclusive; install one and you can't install the other. If you choose gpointing-device-settings, there is a "touchpad off" setting from a drop down menu. It does disable the touchpad, but only temporarily so choose gsynaptics. The instructions above work fine then.

In fact, in both cases the touchpad re-enabled itself after a time. I eventually found you could disable it permanently using the gconf editor.

Type "gconf-editor" in a terminal (or use Alt+F2) and the gconf editor will open. Navigate to "gnome>peripherals>touchpad" and uncheck the entry "touchpad_enabled". This will disable the touchpad and it no longer re-enables itself. At least it did for me. You may not need to leave gsynaptics in place but I have done just in case.

---

