---
title: "9.10 various stability issues with Gnome ?"
date: 2009-11-09
forum: General Help
---

### Post by UranUtan on 2009-11-09
Hi,

Since the 9.10 release, I have made 6 fresh installations on machines which were running Ubuntu 9.04 perfectly. Xubuntu 9.10 x32 was installed on two machines. It works beautifully.

On the other two machines (a laptop and a desktop, both about 4 or 5 years old). Ubuntu 9.10 x32 didn't go very well. Each of these machines, Ubuntu 9.10 x32 had to be installed twice.

The laptop had some weird issues such as flash plugin cannot be installed, wireless not recognized, impossible to save Firefox bookmark, etc. After various reinstall, reboot, system updates, etc. It works almost OK. For now only the wireless is not working, hope it will be fixed a few weeks later.

The desktop is, on the other hand catastrophic. It runs OK for about a few hours and the desktop just freezes with no warning. Only the mouse can move. The Menu items lose their icon, clicking anything will end up with a message like 'gnome cannot start Terminal' (I forgot the exact message).

Ctrl-Alt-Fx sometimes clear the GUI but displays a totally black screen, no input is echoed. Sometimes, this key Ctrl-Alt-Fx doesn't work. The only possible action is power off and on again, and after a few hours, the freezing cycle repeat itself. I have no idea what is the triggering factor. As the instability issues only show up in Ubuntu machines and not the Xubuntu ones, I must assume that this comes from Gnome. I wish to supply more debug info to the experts in the forum, but I don't know what to look for. The only things running is Firefox, Empathy.

Can you please give me some hints to investigate further?

Thanks in advance for any help.

---

### Post by ranch hand on 2009-11-09
Wow, I have 2 OS' that I use as my production OS'.  One, this one, is my "night" OS and is 9.04.  The other is my "day" OS and is an upgraded 9.04>9.10>10.04testing.  Both run boinc at full blast, cpus at 100%.

If anything the day OS is more stable than this one.  Kind of a toss up.

---

### Post by UranUtan on 2009-11-13
Issue FIXED, nothing to do with Gnome.

It turned out, the random freeze only affected the non-admin user. Then I remember that I have made a 2nd reinstall on that machine. As /home is on a separate partition, I didn't reformat it. I just reinstall reusing the same two users (same name, same pwd, same order) than the 1st install. When creating the 2nd user, the system aborted saying that home/user2 directory already exists. I didn't pay much attention, I just renamed the folder and continued the process and recopied the files back.

Now I think that this freezing issue may have something to do with the failed user creation. So I delete completely the user (by userdel, including the home folder), then recreate the user from scratch. Since then no more freezing.

---

