---
title: "Problem with cGmail"
date: 2008-10-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by rozbarwinek on 2008-10-04
I have installed cGmail 0.5 and I have few questions. When I enable automatically starting with system it doesn’t work so I add it manually but applications starts with it's window on the desktop and without services enabled (so I have to click "start service" every time). Is there a way to force it to start minimized to tray and with enabled services? My second question is that cGmail pop-up’s shows at the bottom of the desktop, is there a way to change it so they will appear close to tray (like system updater popup)

---

### Post by villalcalde84 on 2008-11-12
Hi!

I have the same problem, but I am using Ubuntu 8.10 Intrepid Ibex. In the previous version, 8.04, I installed cgmail 0.4 using the .deb package from its website, and had no problem.

Now, using intrepid, I'm also using that version, but installed it through Synaptic. But when I enable the automatic start it does not happen, so like rozbarwinek, I did it manually and have the same problem.

I tried with the 0.5 version but it is the same. Is there a way to fix it? Or at least, by enabling it to automatically start, to make it start minimized and enable the services?

Thanks.

---

### Post by Mojomagus on 2008-11-20
Same problem here. 

Cgmail was working fine with Hardy but I upgraded to Intrepid it does not autostart anymore, I have to manualy iniciate it on every session. 

My impression though is that it has something to do with Gnome (notification area) which seems to be behaving rather oddly since the upgrade. 

Any ideas on this would be great.

---

### Post by whitethorn on 2008-11-20
You could also give mail-notification a try.  It's in Synaptic, also works with gmail.

---

### Post by mal on 2008-11-24
I've had the same problem with cGmail on Intrepid.  It seems that the cGmail preferences dialog is failing to properly set up an entry in gnome-session-properties.  To fix the problem, I manually created an entry by running System/Preference/Sessions and adding a command to run "/usr/bin/cgmailservice".  (Note, if you run /usr/bin/cgmail, it will start with the accounts dialog.)

Hope this helps.

Mal

---

### Post by lundbymads on 2008-12-14
The solution is here:
[http://ubuntu-dawn.blogspot.com/2008/10/few-intrepid-fixes.html](http://ubuntu-dawn.blogspot.com/2008/10/few-intrepid-fixes.html)

---

### Post by Mojomagus on 2008-12-14
Yeah, that did the trick. Thank you!

---

### Post by DREMA on 2009-02-24
> To fix the problem, I manually created an entry by running System/Preference/Sessions and adding a command to run "/usr/bin/cgmailservice". (Note, if you run /usr/bin/cgmail, it will start with the accounts dialog.)

Thanks, was looking for this solution too!

> My second question is that cGmail pop-up&#8217;s shows at the bottom of the desktop, is there a way to change it so they will appear close to tray (like system updater popup)

I'm looking for accomplish that now, any help will be apreciated.

---

### Post by fizikz on 2009-04-26
I was also having this problem for several months, and just recently found out the reason by reading through the system logs. It seem that the autostart file generated by cGmail is incomplete. To fix it, just use nano to edit the file /home/your_username/.config/autostart/cgmailservice.desktop to include the line "Type=Application" which was previously missing. It should look something like this: 

```
[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Version=1.0
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=cGmail email checker
Exec=cgmailservice
X-GNOME-Autostart-enabled=true
Name[en_CA]=cgmailservice.desktop

```

Now cGmail starts without a problem!

---

### Post by Apipote on 2009-05-05
> I was also having this problem for several months, and just recently found out the reason by reading through the system logs. It seem that the autostart file generated by cGmail is incomplete. To fix it, just use nano to edit the file /home/your_username/.config/autostart/cgmailservice.desktop to include the line "Type=Application" which was previously missing. It should look something like this:

Code:

[Desktop Entry]
Type=Application
Version=1.0
Encoding=UTF-8
Name=cGmail email checker
Exec=cgmailservice
X-GNOME-Autostart-enabled=true
Name[en_CA]=cgmailservice.desktop

Now cGmail starts without a problem!

Gracias !!!

---

### Post by sayantandas on 2009-06-01
but in my case cgmail doesnt remember any accounts. it starts up alright but the account information is not loaded. it starts blank. everytime i have create a new entry to enter my account details

---

### Post by sayantandas on 2009-06-20
bump!!!

---

### Post by vickoxy on 2009-07-17
same here

---

### Post by KoKuToru on 2009-10-27
same here

---

### Post by carlsiu on 2009-11-16
same here

but there is no problem if I save password in plain text.

---

### Post by priegog on 2010-01-05
Same here. I think I'll start a bug on this, since I'm not the only one. I don't even want to try to save the password in plaintext, that is why the gnome-keyring was created for.

EDIT: [Here is the bug guys.]("https://bugs.launchpad.net/cgmail/+bug/503311")Please subscribe to it those of you who are affected so that the maintainer realises it is not an isolated issue and gets around to fixing it.

---

