---
title: "10.04 Lucid - Minitube - Package dependencies cannot be resolved"
date: 2012-02-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by leolupin on 2012-02-14
Youtube works fine until I alt-tab or switch tabs in firefox. Flash crashes (only on youtube) if I'm not actively watching the video.
Since I couldn't find a workaround I decided to install Minitube from the repository. Unfortunately I get this popup error:

**Package dependencies cannot be resolved**
This error could be caused by required additional software packages which are missing or not installable. Futhermore there could be a conflict between software packages which are not allowed to be installed at the same time.

I couldn't figure out which packages were missing so I ran "sudo apt-get install minitube"

The following error occured:

[I]Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree       
Reading state information... Done
Some packages could not be installed. This may mean that you have
requested an impossible situation or if you are using the unstable
distribution that some required packages have not yet been created
or been moved out of Incoming.
The following information may help to resolve the situation:

The following packages have unmet dependencies:
  minitube: Depends: libphonon4 (>= 4:4.2.0) but it is not installable
            Depends: libqt4-network (>= 4:4.6.0) but it is not installable
            Depends: libqt4-xml (>= 4:4.6.0) but it is not installable
            Depends: libqtcore4 (>= 4:4.6.0) but it is not installable
            Depends: libqtgui4 (>= 4:4.6.0) but it is not installable
            Depends: phonon (>= 4:4.5.2) but it is not installable
E: Broken packages[/I]

Anyone have any idea what the problem is? I'm running 10.04 LTS 64bit on my Toshiba Satellite laptop.

---

### Post by leolupin on 2012-02-14
Never mind. I solved the problem by adding main and restricted to my repository list.

---

