---
title: "10.10 will not boot after install."
date: 2010-10-15
forum: General Help
---

### Post by KameZero on 2010-10-15
I install Ubuntu Netbook Edition 10.10 on my Samsung NC10, and the live cd portion worked phenomenally. Wifi and everything else worked out of the box.

However, after the install when I attempt to boot into Ubuntu after clicking enter in the grub menu on Ubuntu 10.10 I see a text cursor thing (the blink underscore, what is that called?) for about 3 seconds and then the laptop reboots. It does the same thing when recovery is selected.

Any help is appreciated, thanks.

---

### Post by KameZero on 2010-10-15
....... nothing?

---

### Post by Quackers on 2010-10-15
If you hold down the shift button during boot does the grub menu appear? If so try booting into a recovery option. 
Do you know if you have run any graphics driver updates lately?

---

### Post by KameZero on 2010-10-15
> **Quackers said:**
> If you hold down the shift button during boot does the grub menu appear? If so try booting into a recovery option. 
Do you know if you have run any graphics driver updates lately?

(Basically repeating my original post here)

I DO see the grub menu and the recovery option does the same thing. I haven't updated any graphics drivers lately no, seeing as I JUST installed the OS and can't get it to boot :p

---

### Post by QIII on 2010-10-15
You might give it a little more time before you bump... The forum policy is 24 hours I believe.

Remember that we are all here on our own time, voluntarily, as we have time.  There may very well be someone who has exactly the answer you need, but he may live in Bangalore.  He may be asleep or at work or having dinner with his family when you post.

That said.

I see a lot of posts on the forum about the NC10 and I will see if I can sort through them to find a similar issue and solution.  If I find it, I'll reference the thread for you.  But I have several foster kids to get to bed and a wife to spend some time with, so I won't guarantee I'll get to it tonight.

In the meantime, here is how I got my list of things to look at.  This is not a "Google it!" or an "RTFM".  This is a "Teach a man to fish..."

Google:

```
site:ubuntuforums.org "Samsung NC10"  maverick
```

This is not necessarily only something that happens with your machine.  Similar things happen to others.

---

### Post by KameZero on 2010-10-16
Well, I'm not sure why it fixed it but I managed to. I booted back into the install USB and used fdisk to delete all of the partitions on the HDD (2 of them) and then used the disk editor program and format the HDD. I then installed 10.10 again and it booted up fine. I guess maybe samsung had something on the HDD that didn't get erased during the normal install?

---

