---
title: "11.04 taking too much CPU usage !"
date: 2011-05-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Abhihemu on 2011-05-01
HI, :)
i recently upgraded my Ubuntu from 10.10 to 11.04 Natty. But i always found the CPU usage high than 75%-95%. I use 1.7 ghz P4, 1gb Ram pc which ran ubuntu 10.10 efficiently but now the high CPU usage has worried me. :(
 Kindly help me what can be the problem and how to resolve it?
I am posting screenshots of my System Monitor :-

[http://img96.imageshack.us/i/screenshotsystemmonitor.png/](http://img96.imageshack.us/i/screenshotsystemmonitor.png/)

[http://img199.imageshack.us/i/screenshottnw.png/](http://img199.imageshack.us/i/screenshottnw.png/)

:confused:

---

### Post by nulious on 2011-05-01
I am also having the same issue. 75-100% cpu usage

p4 3ghz 2GB ram

---

### Post by Jonny87 on 2011-05-01
Does this still occur after a reboot, and does it happen in both the unity and the *classic Gnome interface? 

*If not sure, log out, change session from "Ubuntu" to "Ubuntu Classic".

---

### Post by Abhihemu on 2011-05-07
I was using Ubuntu classic session but it was still high :( so i switched back to 10.10 which is the most stable distro. :D

---

### Post by Spyderkid on 2011-05-07
10.04 is the most stable version if your looking for stability

---

### Post by bootedguy on 2011-05-11
CPU usage goes wonkers in 11.04 as well.  I suspect there might be more than one cause.  On my wireless laptop, when this happens, I can stop it by simply disconnecting the wireless connection.  The CPU quiets down immediately, and then I reconnect the wireless connection and all is well.

There was another post that suggested that the "network manager" was the problem.  It is frustrating, in that TOP only shows XORG associated with the CPU usage.  No one seems to know what triggers this behavior.

---

### Post by jrichter on 2011-05-18
I run 64bit Natty and noticed high cpu usage as well.  Mine is not xorg/network-manager but a process called v86d.  It completely peaks one core so that my laptop gets hot.  When I logout and back in, it is still there, but when I restart, it goes away for a time.  It always comes back though.  Any ideas?

Edit
I only see this behavior after a resume from suspend.

---

### Post by slooksterpsv on 2011-05-18
Did you guys change the OpenGL VSync (uncheck it in Compiz Configuration Settings Manager)?

I'm using Gnome 3, and mine is at... 25% for Xorg. ??? Weird...?? What's going on people?

---

### Post by sarge77 on 2011-05-22
I have the same problem its usually when I plug in my USB flash drive it jumps really high both my cores run over 85% I have a Pentium D 3.2 memory I have 2g the wierd thing is my memory run around 500mb but after i safely eject drive it's still kinda high for about 30 minutes I thought it was because the unity desktop but after I went to classic its still the same.

Maverick was better when it came to using USB flash drives.

---

### Post by linuxinstalledfromhdd on 2011-05-22
are you using persistent versions or non-persistent.. just curious

---

