---
title: "- 19.04 How to connect to a USB HDD that's encrypted?"
date: 2019-08-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-21
I have a 320 GB USB HDD that I know is encrypted. I don't give sh*t about it's contents, but would like to format it to ext4 for extra storage for myself.
PCManFM finds it under /computer:/// but it's otherwise with terminal etc. non-existent.

How do I get access to it? I've searched high and low, but accessing USB or other storage devices seem to be an issue. Does it need to be mounted somehow?

Is there a general way to open/view USB ports?

Thank You in advance.

---

### Post by mikewhatever on 2019-08-21
Have you tried <sudo fdisk -l>?

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-21
> **mikewhatever said:**
> Have you tried <sudo fdisk -l>?

As df -a doesn't even show the disk, my feeling is that that would be futile. Somehow I need to establish contact to the USB-HDD interface first.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2019-08-21
I would suggest using KDE Partition Manager to format it first.  In the Lubuntu manual you can find it on [https://manual.lubuntu.me/3/3.1/3.1.7/kde_partitionmanager.html?highlight=partition](https://manual.lubuntu.me/3/3.1/3.1.7/kde_partitionmanager.html?highlight=partition)

Why KDE Partition Manager?  KDE is Qt (Q toolkit) based like LXQt is, thus it's more efficient to use than `gparted` used by GTK+ or Lubuntu 18.04 LTS or older releases (that used LXDE).  Likewise you should be using PcManFM-Qt instead of PcManFM (which used GTK+2) to avoid wasting memory.

KDE Partition Manager will let you format it as you wish, then you maybe able to find you can use it as you wish in PCManFM-Qt, though personally I'd add it to my file-system-table (/etc/fstab) as an entry, and have it ",auto" load if suitable, or ",noauto,user" if not. 

*I use commands myself, but if you need more I'll add more later.   In test I plugged in a thumb-drive and a pop-up appeared on screen asking if I wanted to view it in File-Manager (pcmanfm-qt) which I hope it would have for you, but if it's rejected because of unusual encryption - I'd start in KDE Partition Manager*

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-21
lsusb shows the following:

macro@macro-pc:~$ sudo lsusb
Bus 002 Device 007: ID 0d49:7350 Maxtor 
Bus 002 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 007 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 006 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 005 Device 002: ID 15ca:00c3 Textech International Ltd. Mini Optical Mouse
Bus 005 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0002 Linux Foundation 2.0 root hub
Bus 004 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub
Bus 003 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation 1.1 root hub

The desired HDD is "Maxtor", but how do I connect to it? My PC apparently recognises it as a USB device, but not as a storage device.

---

### Post by guiverc on 2019-08-21
I usually use `lsblk` (list block devices) before I `mount`, or `blkid` to get the ID for adding to fstab (file system table)

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-22
Thanks, guiverc.
sudo lsblk gives the following output:

NAME   MAJ:MIN RM   SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
sda      8:0    0 111,8G  0 disk 
&#9492;&#9472;sda1   8:1    0 111,8G  0 part /
sdb      8:16   0 298,1G  0 disk 
sr0     11:0    1  1024M  0 rom 

So the disk is there, and it seems I need to format and define a partition. I'll try the KDE Partition Manager again, yesterday it brought no joy.

Thanks

PS: I AM using PCManFM-Qt, was just too lazy to write the full name. My system is 100% Lubuntu 19.04

---

### Post by GhX6GZMB on 2019-08-22
OK, I've given up, Thanks for your help.
Even the Maxtor Manager software (Win) cannot open the drive. It's now received two vigorous whacks with a sledge hammer and has been committed to the recycle bin.

Cheers.

---

