---
title: "14.04 LTS to xerial upgrade - what a mess"
date: 2017-03-29
forum: General Help
---

### Post by mathog on 2017-03-29
Tried to upgrade a 14.04 LTS 32 bit system today to 16.04 LTS and it was a disaster from one end to the other.
Did

```
apt-get update
apt-get upgrade
#reboot
apt autoremove
do-release-upgrade

```

and it went completely off the rails stopping half way through with conflicts it couldn't resolve in virtuoso (whatever that is), ppp, network-manager and many, many, others.  Eventually worked through most of that by doing manual downloads and dpkg -i install, then half a dozen rounds of "apt-get upgrade" until it finally thought everything was installed, then a final "apt autoremove".  Reboot.

gdm login comes up, login, it locks.  ssh in doesn't work.  reboot it and wait and wait and wait and it finally lets one ssh process in but it cannot do squat because some system-crash-no process is using 100% of the CPU.  "df" won't work but "ls" will.  dmsg shows that nouveau crashed.  reboot to recovery mode - and it STILL starts the gdm login window and the whole nouveau crash etc. happens all over again.  It ignores "reboot" and "poweroff", and no "kill" variant will stop that system-crash-no process.  Maybe the reboot and poweroff problems are related to systemctl?  Still, this is pretty much the definition of broken:

```

poweroff
Failed to start poweroff.target: Connection timed out
See system logs and 'systemctl status poweroff.target' for details.
systemctl enable poweroff.target
Failed to execute operation: Connection timed out

```

Pushing the power button did not trigger a shutdown (hardly surprising given the preceding), so the only way out was to hold down the power button until the BIOS yanked the power.

Looks like I'm going to have to wipe this system and start over.

Oh yes, that system-crash-no process has now been running for 25 minutes at 100% CPU, but there is no disk activity to speak of.

---

### Post by Autodave on 2017-03-29
Hopefully, someone else can help you save what you have. I have never had much luck upgrading like that. I always make a back-up and do a fresh install.

---

### Post by Impavidus on 2017-03-30
Most of the time, upgrades work, but if they don't, a clean install is often a faster solution than fixing your existing system. There are so many things that could be wrong...

---

### Post by RobGoss on 2017-03-30
Your best bet is do a clean installation it will save you a lot of time and trouble. Upgrading from the system can be problematic when skipping distributions

---

### Post by mathog on 2017-03-31
> **RobGoss said:**
> Your best bet is do a clean installation it will save you a lot of time and trouble.

You're probably right, but sometimes I'm a glutton for punishment.

Booted from a 16.04.2 Xubuntu DVD and in a terminal did:

```
sudo mkdir /mnt/root
sudo mount /dev/sda5 /mnt/root
sudo mount /dev/sda2 /mnt/root/boot
sudo chroot /mnt/root
hostname <my_machine_name>
domainname <our_domain_name>
cat >/etc/resolv.conf <<EOD
nameserver 128.0.1.1
search <our_domain_name>
EOD
sudo mount -t proc proc proc/

```

At this point the network was working well enough for apt-get to function

```
apt-get update
apt-get install -f

```

The second one did absolutely nothing, as if there were no problems. 

```
sudo apt-get install debsums
sudo debsums_init
debsums -c 2>&1 | tee dsums.log

```
Found problems with libbonoboui2-dev and libgnomeui-dev, which were removed and installed again.
Found problems with an old acroread, which was just removed.
Found dhcp3-client and dhcp3-common, apparently from an older release, removed them.
The only other issues were with missing text files in /usr/share, which were ignored.

Reboot, and it hung the same as before.  The text at the end of the OS boot looked normal, but it was ignoring all keyboard input and the network wasn't up to allow ssh.  Since I had to forcibly remove the power to shut down each time it was also having to run fsck on each boot.  Thinking that might be the problem, booted a rescue disk and ran fsck on the partitions until they were clean.  Rebooted.

It came up fine.  So perhaps there was something wrong in the root or boot file partition?

Anyway, it seems to be working pretty well now except that it just doesn't want to shutdown quickly.   The machine does not start X11 automatically because:
```

sudo systemctl set-default multi-user.target
```

If after login X11 is started with:

```
 startxfce4

```

then following a "shutdown" or "reboot" it hangs for 90s at:

```
a stop job is running for Raise network interfaces (<time counter here>/1 min 32s)

```

If X11 is never turned on then the system also hangs for about the same length of time but it isn't very clear
what it is doing.

The stop job for Raise network interfaces makes no sense because the file /etc/NetworkManager/NetworkManager.conf
contains:

```
[ifupdown]
managed=false

```
The machine has a fixed address and is always plugged into the campus network.

---

