---
title: "10.04 Disk got full, now blank screen"
date: 2011-01-07
forum: General Help
---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2011-01-07
The disk on this machine was full (0 bytes available). I rebooted and now it just goes to a blank screen. I thought I might need to free up some space for something, so I booted to a live cd and freed up some space. Still boots to a blank black screen, any ideas?

---

### Post by cmoraes on 2011-01-07
Do you have multiple partitions?  If so, can you check if there is available space on your root partition.

were you doing an update when the disk got full?

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2011-01-07
> **cmoraes said:**
> Do you have multiple partitions?  If so, can you check if there is available space on your root partition.

were you doing an update when the disk got full?

Good question. It's more of a server. I set it up to run backups and I rarely check on it. I don't think it was running updates... I might just reinstall. I can easily salvage all the data, it's just setting it all back up that bugs me. Does anyone think running updates from the command line will work? I'm not sure I can even get it to drop into the command line.

---

### Post by cmoraes on 2011-01-07
> **CerealCypher said:**
> I rebooted and now it just goes to a blank screen. 

Are you able to access a tty (Alt+F1 or Alt+F2)?

---

### Post by CrusaderAD on 2011-01-14
I cleared up some space via the live CD and it works now. Funny, it didn't work the first time, maybe I just needed a few good reboots. All better now :) Thanks for the replies!

---

