---
title: "12.04 Unity and indicator-multiload memory leak?"
date: 2012-11-24
forum: General Help
---

### Post by vincegata on 2012-11-24
Hello,

I've installed indicator-multiload and two days ago it showed 
Mem: 1.4Gb 
Cache: 120K

today it shows:
Mem: 1.4GB
Cache: 6.4GB

so cache memory is growing fast even though I shutdown all my applications. I am sure reboot will help but I do not want to reboot every two days.

1. What exactly cache memory is here? I assume that's when it's not enough RAM then kernel writes some code and data to swap area - am I right?

2. Is it a memory leak? Is it Ubuntu memory leak or is it indicator-multiload memory leak?

Thanks!

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-11-24
I gave up with that indicator as it was always a bit buggy. Especially reporting net traffic. 

I find conky much more reliable. Even as well as linux manages memory that cache number is weird.

From a terminal what does free -m show.

---

### Post by vincegata on 2012-11-24
I see, thanks, I'll remove it.

---

### Post by philinux on 2012-11-24
Post back with the results.

```
free -m
```

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2012-11-24
Actually, the cache number is perfectly fine.

People need to either learn how modern OS's manage memory or quit looking at it.

Linux (and Windows, and every other modern OS) will cache files in memory as they are read from disk. This is completely normal. That way, if that data is needed again, it does NOT have to be read from the disk again.

If a program needs the memory, it is immediately available (cache == free).

Please read this: [http://www.linuxatemyram.com/](http://www.linuxatemyram.com/)

P.S. This is the single most posted question on these forums.

---

### Post by vincegata on 2012-11-24
> **philinux said:**
> Post back with the results.

```
free -m
```

:~$ free -m
             total       used       free     shared    buffers     cached
Mem:          7912       7453        458          0        143       5903
-/+ buffers/cache:       1407       6505
Swap:         9535          0       9535

---

### Post by vincegata on 2012-11-24
@Slim Odds thanks for the link.

---

### Post by Slim Odds on 2012-11-24
> **vincegata said:**
> @Slim Odds thanks for the link.
You're quite welcome vincegata

---

