---
title: "&quot;Input signal out of range, change settings to 1600 x 900 - 60 MHz&quot;"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by darthchaosofrspw on 2011-04-28
I just installed Ubuntu Natty on my desktop which uses an nVidia GeForce 7+ chipset. After installing Ubuntu, I noticed that when the GRUB boot menu should show up, my monitor says "Input signal out of range, change settings to 1600 x 900 - 60Hz", and it stays that way until the Ubuntu desktop shows up. The Ubuntu desktop shows up just fine. It's just that GRUB and Plymouth don't show up and my monitor gives me the aforementioned message.

How do I fix this?

Here's my xorg.conf configuration after I ran the nVidia X Server Settings app:

# nvidia-settings: X configuration file generated by nvidia-settings
# nvidia-settings:  version 270.29  (buildd@allspice)  Fri Feb 25 14:42:07 UTC 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0" 0 0
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
    Option         "Xinerama" "0"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    # HorizSync source: edid, VertRefresh source: edid
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "HP 2009"
    HorizSync       24.0 - 85.0
    VertRefresh     48.0 - 76.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
    BoardName      "MCP61"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    Option         "TwinView" "0"
    Option         "TwinViewXineramaInfoOrder" "CRT-0"
    Option         "metamodes" "1600x900_60 +0+0"
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

---

### Post by Hedgehog1 on 2011-04-28
Please do this:

```
gksudo gedit /etc/default/grub
```

[COLOR="Red"]and change this line:[/COLOR]

#GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

[COLOR="red"]to this:[/COLOR]

GRUB_GFXMODE=640x480

[COLOR="red"]Then save and exit the document.[/COLOR]


Then do:

```
sudo update-grub
```


***The Hedge***

---

### Post by darthchaosofrspw on 2011-04-29
It works!!!

---

### Post by PinUpGeek on 2011-05-20
I am having the exact same problem but my desktop isnt showing up at all, instead my monitor goes to sleep, and when I remove it from standby it gives the same error...

---

### Post by smcrossman on 2011-05-20
Hey PinUp  If you aren't comfortable with the changes listed above made in terminal, you can install Start Up Manager (easily found on the Ubuntu Software Center) and it will let you make those necessary changes completely safely to get the boot menu to show up.  Any problems after that due to the NVidia driver issue will have to be handled based on where the issues are.

---

### Post by PinUpGeek on 2011-05-22
The issue was that my computer wouldn't boot AT all. So I wouldn't have been able to access the terminal at all. I ultimately needed to reinstall linux entirely from the USB and wipe everything. I guess it has something to do with my nvidia drivers.

---

