---
title: "Dual monitors in 7.10"
date: 2008-01-22
forum: General Help
---

### Post by polevault152 on 2008-01-22
I'm running 7.10 on an x86 pc with an ATI Radeon 9550 (R350).  I'm not using fglrx and the default "Screens and Graphics" program doesn't recognize that I have a second monitor attached.  The default monitor is attached using the VGA port and the second monitor is attached to the DVI port using a VGA to DVI adapter.  Any ideas?

---

### Post by RawMustard on 2008-01-23
I'm not really up to setting up ATI cards, have avoided them like the plague on linux but have your tried:

Option         "ConnectedMonitor"          "DFP, CRT"

or 

Option         "ConnectedMonitor"          "DFP-0, CRT-1"

In your xorg.conf file?

I t would really help heaps if you would have posted your file.

---

### Post by polevault152 on 2008-01-23
Where would I put that option?  For what its worth I've tried using bigdesktop and the fglrx driver and x would just crash and go into safe mode.  So lost! It used to work on my old feisty installation

# xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"		"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"		"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"		"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"		"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"		# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AS [Radeon 9550]"
	Driver		"ati"
	BusID		"PCI:1:0:0"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"Generic Monitor"
	Option		"DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"ATI Technologies Inc RV350 AS [Radeon 9550]"
	Monitor		"Generic Monitor"
	DefaultDepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Modes		"1280x1024" "1024x768" "832x624" "800x600" "720x400" "640x480"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
	Screen		"Default Screen"
	InputDevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	InputDevice	"Configured Mouse"

# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection

---

### Post by danwood76 on 2008-01-23
Try and install the ati drivers using method 2 in this guide:
[http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide](http://wiki.cchtml.com/index.php/Ubuntu_Gutsy_Installation_Guide)

this will give you the latest drivers and should work fine with your card.
you can then use catalyst control center to config your second screen.

regards,
Danny

---

### Post by polevault152 on 2008-01-23
Thanks so much for the help, I'm going out of town and won't be able to try this for several days but thank you for the tip.

---

