---
title: "11.04 install problem list"
date: 2011-04-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by putush on 2011-04-28
So I upgraded from 10.10 to 11.04 beta 2 two days back. Upon trying to use the system, these were the problems I had:

1. Mouse is absolutely not responsive. Even the cursor is not showing.

2. When I login through keyboard options only once this message flashed "Unity not supported by your hardware switch to classic mode on your next login". It flashed once, took me to the desktop screen where the classic desktop was available and I could not access anything without keyboard shortcuts.

3. When I tried launching firefox, deluge or even tried using the terminal to connect to the net I am unable to connect.

4. My USB devices are not read.

5. I finally tried to do a clean install of 10.10 using the live cd I already have but the OS is not booting from the cd. 

As a result I am stuck with a comp which has no mouse, no internet, no usb support, no cd support. Do you guys have any idea how I get it to work again?

---

### Post by putush on 2011-04-28
After going through various options the one that stuck was this:

1. Whilst booting, I held [SHIFT] to access the grub2 menu.
2. Chose a previous kernel. 
3. Logged in as a user. (By now, everything was working but if I shutdown and booted again it would display the same set of problems.)
4. So I performed the partial upgrade that was available and as suggested restarted.
5. After the restart everything is working.


Unity is also supported. Whether I will keep it around or not is another matter altogether though.

---

