---
title: "8.04 SERVICES The configuration could not be loaded ..."
date: 2008-08-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bagvian on 2008-08-06
Hi,
I run Ubuntu 8.04 on an amd64 with Gnome
Whenever I try to access the following functionalities (among others):
system>administration>services
system>administration>users and groups
system>administration>time and date
...
I get a window that says :
"
the configuration could not be loaded
you are not allowed to access the system configuration
"
Problem started when I upgraded from 7.10 to 8.04.
It looks like the problem is correlated with DBUS and HAL but I am not sure.

I tried something like this:
sudo /etc/init.d/dbus start

and also:
sudo update-rc.d -f dbus remove
sudo update-rc.d dbus defaults 12

None of these solutions could solve the problem.
Would anybody have a suggestion?
Thanks in advance.
Bagvian

---

### Post by pro003 on 2008-08-06
try with these in your terminal:

```
sudo aptitude install  libdata-dumper-simple-perl
```
```
sudo apt-get install --reinstall  data-dumper
```

hope I helped you.. let me know

---

### Post by bagvian on 2008-08-07
Hello pro003 and thanks for your answer.
I try both commands you advised:
sudo aptitude install  libdata-dumper-simple-perl
sudo apt-get install --reinstall  data-dumper

the first one did not seem to do anything while the second one installed one package.
Unfortunately the problem is still there (The configuration could not be loaded ...)
I even tried to reinstall data-dumper through Synaptic but it did not change anything either.
Would you have another idea?
Thanks, B.

---

### Post by pro003 on 2008-08-07
In a terminal (or from your menu, it didn't appear in my menus for some reason) start:

```
alacarte
```

This is a very good menu-editor for Gnome.

In the left listbox, scroll down and select:
System->Administration.

Now at the right, select e.g. Networking, click the right mouse button and from the pop up menu select: Properties.

Now add

```
gksu
```

in front of the Command: e.g.:

```
gksu network-admin
```

Repeat this for the entries:

* Services
* hared Folders
* Time and Date
* Users and Groups


This is reported as solution for the problem you're having.

Get back if you succeed.

---

### Post by bagvian on 2008-08-07
As far as I remember, I had already added gksu before of the commands some times ago. I had probably found the information on the Internet.
Again if I remember well the main difference you can see with and without gksu written, is that, with gksu it prompts you for a password when you want to access the application.
Indeed when I try to launch e.g. Services for the first time, it prompts me for my password and then tells me: "The configuration could not be loaded ..." I assume that my password is right since it is the one I use when doing a sudo.

After launching alacarte in a terminal (it seems that I don't 
have it in my menu either), I went to the menu:
System>Preferences>Administration
There I can see on the right all the applications.
They are all ticked. They are as follows, in this order and launched with the following command (under properties):

Authorizations: polkit-gnome-authorization

Hardware Drivers: gksu -D /usr/share/applications/jockey-gtk.desktop /usr/bin/jockey-gtk

Hardware Testing: gksu /usr/bin/hwtest-gtk

Language Support: /usr/bin/gnome-language-selector

Login Window: gksu /usr/sbin/gdmsetup

Network: gksu network-admin

Network Tools: gnome-nettool

Printing: /usr/bin/system-config-printer

Remove orphaned packages: gksu gtkorphan

Services: gksu services-admin

Software Sources: gksu --desktop /usr/share/applications/software-properties.desktop /usr/bin/software-properties-gtk

Storage Device Manager: gksudo pysdm

Synaptic Package Manager: gksu /usr/sbin/synaptic

System Log: gnome-system-log

System Monitor: gnome-system-monitor

Time and Date: gksu time-admin

Update Manager: /usr/bin/update-manager

Users and Groups: gksu users-admin

Windows Wireless Drivers: gksu /usr/sbin/ndisgtk

And that's it!
I guess everything is there isn't?
I also guess gksu in written before the commands when needed??
I cannot really understand the difference between gksu and the gksudo that appear for the Storage Device Manager but it does not seem to be a real problem.

What do you think about this?
Cheers, B.

---

### Post by bagvian on 2008-09-02
Hi,
I could not manage to fix the problem and decided to reinstall a fresh 8.04.
Now everything works fine, which makes me think that instead of upgrading the system, one should rather re-install from scratch. By doing this way, errors do not accumulate.
Cheers, Bagvian

---

### Post by New_Ubie on 2009-01-24
i tried the steps..it didn't help...been searching for hours to find a solution....this is killing

---

