---
title: "Can't see entire screen..."
date: 2007-11-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Aeroice on 2007-11-28
Unfortunately, I'm using the live CD of Ubuntu... I really love the system, but for some reason my computer won't display the entire screen.

My computer is by far no great thing. The specs are...

Processor: Intel Core Duo 2
Display: Intel integrated chipset (whatever that is)
Monitor: 1440x900 native resolution 19" flatscreen
RAM: 1gb
Harddrive: 320gb partitioned three times, once 200gb (vista), second 100gb (for Ubuntu), third 20gb (recovery)

I have tried to adjust the resolution, but nothing changes. I've tried to adjust positioning on my monitor, but it only gets part of it on the screen, On the right side is about a 1" black square. The rest is all perfect, great graphics, programs, etc. Note, I was running the installation during this time. I'm not sure if that has anything to do with it..

Any suggestions.. ?

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2007-11-28
This should change after you install it. I've had all sorts of wacky stuff come out of the live cd. The 1' black sqaure happened to me with 7.10. Just go for it, everything will be golden after completing the installation.

---

### Post by Aeroice on 2007-11-28
Unfortunately in 1440x900 and 1280x1024 the screen's position is still way off. On the other hand, I'm in love with Ubuntu and perhaps couldn't fall in love more. It's a great system, super easy. With Vista you have tons of drivers and stuff to set up before anything at all works. Luckily... this is not the case. It did it all for me. It came with all the software I would ever need.

However I still would like to view Ubuntu in my native resolution. The screen is crystal clear in 1440x900... just way off center.

Any ideas on how to fix this?

I did install it, by the way.

---

### Post by diatribe on 2007-11-28
after installing edit your xorg.conf to use the intel driver rather than vesa, might work

---

### Post by Aeroice on 2007-11-28
Hmm. I'm new to this, could you explain a little more?

Thanks though. :D

---

### Post by diatribe on 2007-11-28
there should be a line in /etc/X11/xorg.conf that looks like:

Section "Device"
    Identifier  "** SiS (generic)                      [sis]"
    Driver      "sis"

except your driver will be different (vesa prolly) change it to intel

---

### Post by Aeroice on 2007-11-28
Err...
This is what it says.

> # xorg.conf (xorg X Window System server configuration file)
#
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using
# values from the debconf database.
#
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page.
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.)
#
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only*
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg
# package.
#
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated
# again, run the following command:
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Generic Keyboard"
	Driver		"kbd"
	Option		"CoreKeyboard"
	Option		"XkbRules"	"xorg"
	Option		"XkbModel"	"pc105"
	Option		"XkbLayout"	"us"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Identifier	"Configured Mouse"
	Driver		"mouse"
	Option		"CorePointer"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/mice"
	Option		"Protocol"	"ImPS/2"
	Option		"ZAxisMapping"	"4 5"
	Option		"Emulate3Buttons"	"true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"stylus"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"stylus"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"eraser"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"eraser"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
	Driver		"wacom"
	Identifier	"cursor"
	Option		"Device"	"/dev/input/wacom"
	Option		"Type"	"cursor"
	Option		"ForceDevice"	"ISDV4"# Tablet PC ONLY
EndSection

Section "Device"
	Identifier	"Intel Corporation Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Boardname	"intel"
	Busid		"PCI:0:2:0"
	Driver		"intel"
	Screen	0
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
	Identifier	"DELL SE198WF"
	Vendorname	"Generic LCD Display"
	Modelname	"LCD Panel 1440x900"
	Horizsync	31.5-56.0
	Vertrefresh	56.0 - 65.0
  modeline  "800x600@56" 36.0 800 824 896 1024 600 601 603 625 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "800x600@60" 40.0 800 840 968 1056 600 601 605 628 +hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x768@60" 80.14 1280 1344 1480 1680 768 769 772 795 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x720@60" 74.48 1280 1336 1472 1664 720 721 724 746 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1280x800@60" 83.46 1280 1344 1480 1680 800 801 804 828 -hsync +vsync
  modeline  "1440x900@60" 106.47 1440 1520 1672 1904 900 901 904 932 -hsync +vsync
	Gamma	1.0
EndSection

Section "Screen"
	Identifier	"Default Screen"
	Device		"Intel Corporation Integrated Graphics Controller"
	Monitor		"DELL SE198WF"
	Defaultdepth	24
	SubSection "Display"
		Depth	24
		Virtual	1440	900
		Modes		"1440x900@60"	"1280x800@60"	"1280x720@60"	"1280x768@60"	"800x600@60"	"800x600@56"
	EndSubSection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
	Identifier	"Default Layout"
  screen 0 "Default Screen" 0 0
	Inputdevice	"Generic Keyboard"
	Inputdevice	"Configured Mouse"
	
	# Uncomment if you have a wacom tablet
	#	InputDevice     "stylus"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "cursor"	"SendCoreEvents"
	#	InputDevice     "eraser"	"SendCoreEvents"
EndSection
Section "Module"
	Load		"glx"
	Load		"GLcore"
	Load		"v4l"
EndSection
Section "ServerFlags"
EndSection

It still doesn't load correctly for 1440x900. For all the other resolutions it does now, though. So that's progress at least... :P

---

### Post by Six_Digits on 2007-11-29
This thread may help, read it through:

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=280683](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=280683)

---

### Post by Aeroice on 2007-12-04
Hey guys, none of it worked.. found the problem. All I have to do on my monitor is hit 'autoadjust' and it does it for me. thanks.

---

