---
title: "10.10 x64 NVIDIA Installation Issues"
date: 2010-11-25
forum: General Help
---

### Post by earthmeLon on 2010-11-25
Vaio VPCF126FM
NVIDIA 330m (CUDA)

I decided to re-format my computer and use LVM encrypted drive vs Ubuntu's home dir encryption.  As it a laptop, it is very important to me to keep my sensitive data secure.

Installing went wonderfully and I was able to reboot and login using the graphical interface w. nouveau drivers.  

I have not been able to get the automatic installer (Ubuntu's method) to work for this graphic card so I downloaded the  [260.19.21]("http://us.download.nvidia.com/XFree86/Linux-x86_64/260.19.21/NVIDIA-Linux-x86_64-260.19.21.run"). After rebooting to recovery mode and removing the nouveau drivers, I ran the installation script and it seemed pretty happy with itself.

Reboot and I get some errors about kernel module number not matching (one was 260.19.21 and another was 260.19.14 or something slightly different).

I read some forums and decide to try to install nvidia-current.  I tried nvidia-gtx.  I've tried --purge remove nvidia-* and reloading the install scripts.  I've tried a lot of things.

Whenever I go to install a new driver using NVIDIA's script, it warns me of a previous existing driver.  How can I remove ALL of nvidia drivers and stuff so I can try STARTING OVER!!!?

I've tried 260, 254, 195 and even the DEV driver and CUDA dev package.  Nothing is working.  Sometimes the numbers don't match, sometimes X just hangs as soon as it start.

[This]("http://code.google.com/p/vaio-f11-linux/wiki/NVIDIASetup") says 195.36.15 works (and I remember it working on my previous installation of 10.10).

Any help would be greatly appreciated.  "Re-installing Ubuntu" is not the solution for which I am looking.

---

### Post by efflandt on 2010-11-25
Installing nvidia 260.19.21 is simple in Lucid or Maverick if you can clear out whatever you did, and can boot using default nouveau driver (or reinstall the system).  You just have to add the x-swat repository:

```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates

sudo apt-get update
```Then go to System > Adminstration > Hardware Drivers (or Additional Drivers in Maverick), "activate" nvidia, and reboot.

---

### Post by earthmeLon on 2010-11-25
```
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-x-swat/x-updates

sudo apt-get update
```

Thanks for your suggestion.  Unfortunately, I've already added this repo.  What's the name of the package specifically from this repo versus the default source.list?

I would first like to try installing that specific driver from recovery cli.  I am willing to start over, but I'd like to be able to fix the problem, not just start over.  Another reason is that I don't want to have to resort to such drastic actions in the future, when there actually is data and settings on the computer I can't lose.

I will find and post the any relevent logs once I make these attempts.  The earlier post was just something quick to get some ideas while I was at work :D

Thanks again and still working to solve.

---

### Post by earthmeLon on 2010-11-26
Trying this from a fresh installation.  I've started a new post to document each step I've taken to try to get this resolved.

[http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1631455](http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1631455)

---

