---
title: "Problem with Checking Updates"
date: 2009-05-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by donato roque on 2009-05-14
Ubuntu is showing a "problem with checking updates" message in the notification area.  Tried to open synaptic/update manager on my own but
is unable to do so.  I have not installed new software nor open synaptic
before the message appeared.  Using the terminal it says segmentation 
fault.  
Can you shed me some light?
I attached some screenshots.  Hope these help.

---

### Post by pbpersson on 2009-05-14
What version of Ubuntu?  If you are using 9.04, did you use the ext4 file system?

---

### Post by pro003 on 2009-05-14
Usually signal #11 (SIGSEGV) set, which is defined in the header file signal.h file. The default action for a program upon receiving SIGSEGV is abnormal termination. This action will end the process, but may generate a core file (also known as core dump) to aid debugging, or perform some other platform-dependent action. A core dump is the recorded state of the working memory of a computer program at a specific time, generally when the program has terminated abnormally.

Segmentation fault can also occur under following circumstances:

a) A buggy program / command, which can be only fixed by applying patch.

b) It can also appear when you try to access an array beyond the end of an array under C programming.

c) Inside a chrooted jail this can occur when critical shared libs, config file or /dev/ entry missing.

d) Sometime hardware or faulty memory or driver can also create problem.

e) Maintain suggested environment for all computer equipment (overheating can also generate this problem).
Suggestions to debug Segmentation Fault errors

To debug this kind of error try one or all of the following techniques :

    * Use gdb to track exact source of problem.
    * Make sure correct hardware installed and configured.
    * Always apply all patches and use updated system.
    * Make sure all dependencies installed inside jail.
    * Turn on core dumping for supported services such as Apache.
    * Use strace which is a useful diagnostic, instructional, and debugging tool.
    * Google and find out if there is a solution to problem.
    * Fix your C program for logical errors such as pointer, null pointer, arrays and so on.
    * Analyze core dump file generated by your system using gdb

---

### Post by Egi_Power on 2009-05-14
The synaptic is a package manager.
Then you have the update manager, which is different.

What do you get for:
```
sudo apt-get update
```
?

Egi_Power

---

### Post by kpkeerthi on 2009-05-14
What happens when you update using command-line?
```
sudo apt-get update
```
```
sudo apt-get upgrade
```
Post back the errors, if any.

---

### Post by donato roque on 2009-09-03
Thank you for all your replies.  
I decided to re install Ubuntu and it was solved.

---

