---
title: "11.04 &quot;No rule to make target `modules'.&quot;"
date: 2011-09-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by JDacapo on 2011-09-14
I've been having this problem where I try to run a makefile for a hanvon tablet driver, but it gives me this:

make -C /lib/modules/2.6.38-11-generic/build M=/home/gina/hanvon modules
make[1]: Entering directory `/lib/modules/2.6.38-11-generic/build'
make[1]: *** No rule to make target `modules'.  Stop.
make[1]: Leaving directory `/lib/modules/2.6.38-11-generic/build'
make: *** [all] Error 2


Another member of the forum, Favux, tried to help me with it but we both are stumped.

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-14
have you installed build essential ```
sudo apt-get installed build-essential
```

another possibility for occurring this problem is if configuration went wrong  .

then try again 
all the best

---

### Post by JDacapo on 2011-09-14
> **raja.genupula said:**
> have you installed build essential ```
sudo apt-get installed build-essential
```another possibility for occurring this problem is if configuration went wrong  .

then try again 
all the best


I already got that installed. If there is a bad configuration, which one would it be and how would I fix it?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-14
configuration mean 
to execute with source, we need to ./configure and then we are going to do make and sudo make install .
if ./configure went fine then make and make install going to be fine maximum times .
have you seen anything like config or configure in the list of files .

---

### Post by JDacapo on 2011-09-14
There is no Configure file in that list of files. Is there any way to make one?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-14
i think we cant make a configuration file by our own . 
can you list the contents of that folder

---

### Post by JDacapo on 2011-09-14
The contents are:

hanvon.c
Makefile
README

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-15
i think that readme file gonna help for your installation process . 
open it 
```
gedit README
```

or ```
cat README 
```

all the best

---

### Post by JDacapo on 2011-09-15
I opened the README file. It has nothing in it except for the program's  name. Any other thing that might be missing? Or do I just have a bad  install of Ubuntu?

---

### Post by raja.genupula on 2011-09-15
hey man , just give a try to this please 

```
cc -o hanvon hanvon.c
```
```
./hanvon
```

then do make

all the best man

---

### Post by JDacapo on 2011-09-17
gina@gina-Satellite-2435:~/hanvon$ cc -o hanvon hanvon.c
hanvon.c:2:24: fatal error: linux/slab.h: No such file or directory
compilation terminated.
gina@gina-Satellite-2435:~/hanvon$ ./hanvon
bash: ./hanvon: No such file or directory

Still didn't work. What is this command supposed to do?

---

