---
title: "10.04.1: Stuck On Screensaver"
date: 2011-01-06
forum: General Help
---

### Post by temporos on 2011-01-06
Hey, all. ):P

I installed Lucid on my notebook last night, and all seemed to be going well until about an hour ago. When I used the LiveCD, everything seemed to work fine, so I assumed that my hardware was supported (well, the important parts, anyway).

I came back to my computer after about an hour away, and the screensaver had been activated. No surprise; I had it set to activate after fifteen minutes of idle. I selected the MatrixGL screensaver, because it looks fantastic on my netbook (also using Lucid).

After attempting to move the mouse to deactivate the screensaver, it flashed black once, then resumed the matrix code. I attempted the mouse again, then Esc, then Ctrl-Alt-Del, then Ctrl-Shift[L]-Esc, and finally the power button. But no matter what I did, the screensaver would only flash black momentarily, then reactivate. My last resort was a forced shutdown and reboot.

Has anyone experienced a similar issue?

---

### Post by hawthornso23 on 2011-01-06
Did you try typing your password?

It may have been expecting your password to unlock..

---

### Post by temporos on 2011-01-06
> **hawthornso23 said:**
> Did you try typing your password?

No.  I didn't try my password, because I was never asked for it.  The computer just chewed on and decided to ignore whatever keys I pressed.  I wasn't given enough time to enter a password between the first keystroke and the moment the screensaver came back on.

---

