---
title: "low graphics mode and unable to change resolution"
date: 2009-01-14
forum: General Help
---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
Hello,

I am a new ubuntu user and am so far very happy with the experience.  I have a small problem however:

When I first installed ubuntu I was using a 32" LCD TV as my monitor, and everything was working perfectly. Smooth install, and running in 1280x720 resolution (max the TV was capable of).

I have purchased a new TV however (47" LG which can handle 1080p) and now I am stuck in low resolution mode.  I have tried to play around with the video card driver settings but it does not look like i can change neither the resolution nor the refresh rate to anything usable. 

I am certain the video card and the TV can handle the higher resolution, since i dual boot windows xp, and there the video card and monitor runs 1080 flawlessly.

Any help would be appreciated, and please bare with me as I am a new linux user.

Thank You

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
What video card are you using?

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
nvidia 8800gts

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
Have you installed the Nvidia drivers via System -> Administration -> Restricted Drivers Manager?

*note* - this must be done everytime a new kernel is intalled.

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
I have not made any changes to the system. I simply turned off the PC, unplugged the old tv, plugged in the new one, and turned the system back on.

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
Install the proprietary graphics drivers using the GUI launched from the following command:


gksu jockey-gtk


Update-manager makes those changes for you....

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
Thank you very much.  I will try it asap and see if it works

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
I ran 
gksu jockey-gtk
and it opened the window where I select which drivers to select.  I have three to select from, and the one that's (recommended) is already selected.  I cannot select the other ones, when i try to activate them an error box pops up with nothing written in it.

I tried deactivating the current one, then reactivating it, then rebooting but nothing changed.

also on a side note, will I need an internet connection for this to update/fix itself? Because I currently don't have one where the computer is installed.

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
> also on a side note, will I need an internet connection for this to update/fix itself? Because I currently don't have one where the computer is installed.


Yes, it typically needs to download the new drivers.

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
I understand.  so the video card drivers it previously downloaded wont work with the new TV?

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
It is not that. What most likely happened is that the update-manager downloaded and installed a new kernel. Nvidia drivers install a module for only the currently running kernel. Therefore, if you got a new kernel upgrade your nvidia drivers would not be set.


Post the contents of /etc/X11/xorg.conf

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
# xorg.conf (X.Org X Window System server configuration file) 
# 
# This file was generated by dexconf, the Debian X Configuration tool, using 
# values from the debconf database. 
# 
# Edit this file with caution, and see the xorg.conf manual page. 
# (Type "man xorg.conf" at the shell prompt.) 
# 
# This file is automatically updated on xserver-xorg package upgrades *only* 
# if it has not been modified since the last upgrade of the xserver-xorg 
# package. 
# 
# Note that some configuration settings that could be done previously 
# in this file, now are automatically configured by the server and settings 
# here are ignored. 
# 
# If you have edited this file but would like it to be automatically updated 
# again, run the following command: 
#   sudo dpkg-reconfigure -phigh xserver-xorg 
 
Section "Monitor" 
	Identifier	"Configured Monitor" 
EndSection 
 
Section "Screen" 
	Identifier	"Default Screen" 
	Monitor		"Configured Monitor" 
	Device		"Configured Video Device" 
	DefaultDepth	24 
EndSection 
 
Section "Module" 
	Load	"glx" 
EndSection 
 
Section "Device" 
	Identifier	"Configured Video Device" 
	Driver	"nvidia" 
	Option	"NoLogo"	"True" 
EndSection

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
Open up a terminal and do:

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm stop

*note* - this will kill your desktop/GUI

hit CTRL+ALT+F1


sign in there


Make a backup of xorg.conf:

sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.bak

run the following command and have the specs to your T.V. handy:

sudo dpkg --reconfigure xserver-xorg


Follow through all the steps there. Then edit /etc/X11/xorg.conf:


sudo nano /etc/X11/xorg.conf


Change the following:

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nvidia"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection
```

To:

```
Section "Device"
Identifier "Configured Video Device"
Driver "nv"
Option "NoLogo" "True"
EndSection
```


This will disable to proprietary nvidia drivers and use the open source drivers that are built in to the kernel.


Now you can try to restart the graphics:

sudo /etc/init.d/gdm start

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
dpkg: unknown option --reconfigure


also, before i go messing around with this manually, would it be much easier if i got the pc hooked up to the internet? would it set it up automatically?

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
Very sorry that should have been:

sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
Well I ran it, but I never got to any video card options.  About 10 questions about my keyboard then the program quit saying something along the lines of saving new conf to prevent error.  

I rebooted and now I cannot get into ubuntu at all. After the load screen it says its running in low graphics mode and I can either run the old configuration (which it attempts then screen goes black and nothing happens) or try some other options such as edit the conf etc but none of which seem to work.  I can view the old conf that seems to work fine.

Also i booted up from the livecd and it giving me the same error.

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
Boot from the liveCD. Mount your ubuntu hardrive.


Restore the backup of grub.conf that I had you make. The sudo dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg was just used for it to create the lines for your monitor, not your graphics card.

After you restore the backup which should be grub.conf.bak, change the line that says "nvidia" to "nv".

---

### Post by bullet911 on 2009-01-14
I dont think I'm going to take this any further for now.  Its too much of a hassle running between two houses every time I have a question.  This will have to wait till internet access is available where the ubuntu machine is.

That said, thank you very very much for your quick and helpful responses!

---

### Post by Titan8990 on 2009-01-14
No problem, feel free to send me a PM when you are ready to continue troubleshooting the issue.

---

