---
title: "[20.04] Konsole: How to just use Qt theme for scrollbars?"
date: 2020-07-01
forum: General Help
---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-07-01
In 18.04, Konsole scrollbar was styled according to Qt theme.  In 20.04, it seems to be styled partially based on the default background and foreground colors of the current Konsole terminal color scheme?

I liked it better when the Qt theme was totally in charge of styling Konsole's scrollbars.  [This]("https://phabricator.kde.org/D11184") suggests that KDE devs wanted the color scheme to control the colors of the scrollbar.  But I can't find the option?

How to configure my Konsole color scheme to just use Qt theme for scrollbars?

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-01
I could change the scrollbar in Konsole by changing themes in System Settings > Application Style.  Don't know if that helps with your request. It might be too blunt an instrument.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2020-07-01
> **SeijiSensei said:**
> I could change the scrollbar in Konsole by changing themes in System Settings > Application Style.

That's KDE System Settings, right?  I use Xubuntu (with qt5ct), what packages do I need to install to get this preference panel?  I installed [FONT=Courier New]systemsettings[/FONT], but looks like something else is needed too.

---

### Post by SeijiSensei on 2020-07-02
I don't know. I've used Kubuntu since 8.04.  I don't think it would be easy to implement this on another platform.  The Plasma workspace in KDE is pretty elaborate.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2021-06-12
I figured out how to get that systemsettings panel, but it didn't produce the desired effect.

Now I'm looking into compiling Konsole from source for other reasons, and decided to revisit this while I'm at it.  In the version I'm trying to compile, I don't see any path in the code that could skip the scrollbar restyling.  I tested and I can just remove that code and get the effect I want, but I think this minor detail is not worth the maintenance burden. :|

---

### Post by norobro on 2021-06-12
Don't know if this will help or not but you can style Konsole using style sheets. 

For example to change the color of the scrollbar handle you would use the following:```
QScrollBar:vertical::handle {
    color : red;
}
```I tested this by putting the .css file in ~/.kde/share/config and then pointed at it in Konsole by checking the "Use user-defined stylesheet:" box under Settings->Configure Konsole->Tab Bar/Splitters->Miscellaneous

Qt has extensive documentation on how to use stylesheets here: [https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/stylesheet-reference.html](https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/stylesheet-reference.html)

If you change themes often you would need a css file for each theme and then change the Konsole settings.

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2021-06-12
> **norobro said:**
> you can style Konsole using style sheets. 

For example to change the color of the scrollbar handle you would use the following:```
QScrollBar:vertical::handle {
    color : red;
}
```I tested this by putting the .css file in ~/.kde/share/config and then pointed at it in Konsole by checking the "Use user-defined stylesheet:" box under Settings->Configure Konsole->Tab Bar/Splitters->Miscellaneous

Qt has extensive documentation on how to use stylesheets here: [https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/stylesheet-reference.html](https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/stylesheet-reference.html)

Thanks for the tip norobro!  Interesting, I'm using Oxygen qt5 theme and this just turned the scroll arrows red?? :-k

---

### Post by norobro on 2021-06-13
Hi halogen2.

The only system that I have with KDE5 is Debian Sid but I don't think that would make a difference. My only experience using stylesheets with Qt is when programming in C++.

This pic is the result after copying the css for the vertical scrollbar from here: [https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/stylesheet-examples.html#customizing-qscrollbar](https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/stylesheet-examples.html#customizing-qscrollbar)```
QScrollBar:vertical {
     border: 2px solid grey;
     background: #32CC99;
     width: 15px;
     margin: 22px 0 22px 0;
 }
 QScrollBar::handle:vertical {
     background: white;
     min-height: 20px;
 }
 QScrollBar::add-line:vertical {
     border: 2px solid grey;
     background: #32CC99;
     height: 20px;
     subcontrol-position: bottom;
     subcontrol-origin: margin;
 }


 QScrollBar::sub-line:vertical {
     border: 2px solid grey;
     background: #32CC99;
     height: 20px;
     subcontrol-position: top;
     subcontrol-origin: margin;
 }
 QScrollBar::up-arrow:vertical, QScrollBar::down-arrow:vertical {
     border: 2px solid grey;
     width: 3px;
     height: 3px;
     background: white;
 }


 QScrollBar::add-page:vertical, QScrollBar::sub-page:vertical {
     background: none;
 }

```
Maybe the note applies in this case: > Note that if one property or sub-control is customized, all the other properties or sub-controls must be customized as well.[ATTACH=CONFIG]288653[/ATTACH]

---

### Post by &amp;KyT$0P# on 2021-06-13
Ah, it's that your CSS sets [FONT=Courier New]color[/FONT] whereas that Qt example CSS sets [FONT=Courier New]background[/FONT] .

For some CSS properties of the scrollbar, setting them in the stylesheet seems to completely remove all Oxygen styling for the scrollbar, so unfortunately this can't do what I was looking for here.  But I still appreciate the tip about stylesheets though! 8-)

---

