---
title: "10.04.2 or 10.10?"
date: 2011-02-21
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Randymanme on 2011-02-21
I apologize upfront if this isn't the appropriate forum for my inquiry (for some reason, I'm not allowed to post in Community Cafe or Fridge Discussion.)  

How does Ubuntu 10.04.2 differ from Ubuntu 10.10?  I suppose which ever one is "better" is subjective; but would I be correct to assume that 10.04.2 is the more stable and that whatever 10.10 has that LTS doesn't can be backported?  Does anyone know of any reason why the one might be preferred over the other?

Any (good) advice given me would be much appreciated.  Thank you.

---

### Post by bill516 on 2011-02-21
The quickest way to answer your question is to download and burn both a 10.10 and 10.04 iso and then run and compare the two livecd's.

You will see cosmetic differences to be sure, changes in the desktop configuration and newer applications in the 10.10 version.

In a nutshell if you want Ubuntu's newest then you do 10.10.  If you want something solid and dependable then you install the LTS version.  Your applications will not be the newest but everything is going to work very reliably.

I run only LTS versions because I find them to be the most stable.  If you prefer access to the newest applications then run 10.10.

Backporting can be done but I have seen no need to do it.

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2011-02-21
Hello Randymanme

Ubuntu has a release every six months, roughly in April and October, so the version name is year.month.

10.10 was released in October 2010 and 10.04 was released in April 2010.

Every fourth release (roughly speaking) is a Long Term Support release so that desktop installations get 3 years of updates. 10.04 is the most recent LTS. Canonical (the company behind Ubuntu) offer paid support contracts to companies, and they prefer a longer update cycle.

Intermediate releases like 10.10 get 18 months support, but then you get 'bleeding edge' packages in the repositories. I get the feeling that the Ubuntu packagers try new things out with the intermediate releases, and the LTS releases are kept stable. I might be wrong there.

Other Linux distributions have 'rolling releases' (e.g. Arch Linux) where you have a lot of updates and always have the most recent packages, but there is occasionally breakage and hassle.

There are a few mega stable Linux distros such as CentOS and Debian that you might want to look at if you need rock solid performance but older packages.

I have 10.04 on this laptop which is my 'just works' machine. I have 10.10 on my desktop computer with the Ubuntu Studio packages that I use for messing around with music and sound.

Any good?

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-02-21
keithpeter about said it all. LTS releases *are *more solid and have three year support, 10.04 til April 2013, server version of the LTS have five years (2015). 

Intermediates are more 'experimental' and consequently can experience 'issues' from time to time, sometimes radical and others minor and fixed quickly. All makes for a more stable LTS release when one comes around.

I prefer to stick to the LTS releases myself as need my machines up, stable, reliable, and don't have any time to fix major breakages except over the christmas break (nor could I be bothered!). ;)

Having said that I run 10.10 on my laptop because it works, not by choice, long story ...

---

### Post by Syed75 on 2011-02-21
10.04 Is a stable person, 10.10 is a daredevil.

---

### Post by keithpeter on 2011-02-21
> **Bucky Ball said:**
> I prefer to stick to the LTS releases myself as need my machines up, stable, reliable, and don't have any time to fix major breakages except over the christmas break (nor could I be bothered!

Sounds like a plan!

I've just remembered that on my PC, I have separate home and root partitions. When I put Natty (classic Gnome) on the machine as a clean install on the root partition, I'll specify 'manual' partitions and keep the home drive unaltered. All my preferences will be kept that way and my files will be preserved. 

I have a synchronised backup on an external hard drive *and* I have a free dropbox account for essential work files.

[http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome](http://www.psychocats.net/ubuntu/installseparatehome)

---

### Post by Randymanme on 2011-02-21
Thank you to all who replied.

As I have it in my mind, 10.04 was released in April 2010; 10.04.1 included some bug-fixes, security updates and other updates up to and including Aug. 9, 2010. Ubuntu 10.4.2 was released Feb. 18, 2011, and " . . .  integrates ‘numerous post-release updates’ including security updates and ‘corrections for high-impact bugs, with a focus on maintaining stability and compatibility with Ubuntu 10.04 LTS.’(http://www.omgubuntu.co.uk/?s=ubuntu+10.04.2)."

Just for conversation's sake, let me say that for one of my other Linux systems, I burned a RC live cd on October 25, 2010 (that I installed and regularly updated), but when I used the very same live cd to install again, three months later, I got an os so much more refined that it could have been passed off as a new release!

I'll be burning a (Feb.18, 2011) 10.4.2 on the assumption that it's both more stable and up-to-date than last October's 10.10.

---

### Post by Bucky Ball on 2011-02-21
> **Randymanme said:**
> 
I'll be burning a (Feb.18, 2011) 10.4.2 on the assumption that it's both more stable and up-to-date than last October's 10.10.

That assumption would be correct. ;)

---

### Post by snowpine on 2011-02-21
> **Randymanme said:**
> I'll be burning a (Feb.18, 2011) 10.4.2 on the assumption that it's both more stable and up-to-date than last October's 10.10.

Yes 10.04.2 will likely be more stable than 10.10 for you (6 extra months of testing and bug fixes), but all applications and packages will be six months behind (since 10.04 = April 2010 and 10.10 = Oct 2010) so no, it will not be more up-to-date.

---

