---
title: "Can't Convince Ubuntu That My Monitor is 16x9"
date: 2012-03-28
forum: General Help
---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-28
Hello everyone-

Brand new Ubuntu user here.  Just made the switch from Windows on my HTPC.  So far everything works great except one thing (took me forever to get this right on Windows too).

I'm running Ubuntu 11.10 with an NVIDIA GeForce 8600 GT.  I'm going out via DVI to a VGA adapter into my monitor.  The monitor is a Pioneer PDP-505HD.  This is a 50" 16x9 monitor that looks pretty good when it works, but it's so old that nothing seems to recognize it.   I simply cannot get Ubuntu to give me any resolutions that aren't 4x3.

Actually, that's not true.  I get 1360x768 as an option (even though this monitor is capable of 1080i), but when I select that one, my monitor continues displaying bars on the left and right, so that the widescreen resolution is cut off on one side (off-center).

There is no setting on the monitor itself that is helpful.  I've already updated my NVIDIA driver to the recommended one and made many attempts to solve the problem by Googling and reading forums.  Most solutions involve editing xorg.conf, which I have tried, but with no luck.  

Can somebody please help me out?

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-28
Hi Neatoman. Welcome to the forums!

My first guess is that the available resolutions are not being read from the display.

There's a log that is generated when you turn on your machine. It is called:
```
/var/log/Xorg.0.log
```
and contains the details of the initiation of the graphic mode.

Could you post it here so we can take a look?

Since it is a big file, you can use [http://pastebin.com/]("http://pastebin.com/") to actually paste it, and then just post the link here.

Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-28
Thank you for your help, papibe.  May your children be strong and mighty.

Here is my log.  [http://pastebin.com/nAGSTpkd](http://pastebin.com/nAGSTpkd)

I wasn't sure if I should clear it first, so I didn't.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-28
Thanks.

It looks like you have a custom xorg.conf configuration file that stops the driver from reading the monitor's details. Did you do that?

This is what I would do:

First, backup your configuration file in case of any trouble. Open a terminal and run
```
sudo mv /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.old
```
Then generate a new file:
```
sudo nvidia-xconfig
```
Then restart your system.

With luck that would solve your problem, however it may be necessary further work. Use 'Nvidia X Server Settings' to change the settings if needed.

If you still face problems, post both /etc/X11/xorg.conf and /var/log/Xorg.0.log and we'll take another look.

Hope that helps, and tell us how it goes.
Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-28
Yeah, I did that in one of my attempts to fix it.  My edits accomplished nothing.  Prior to that, the xorg.conf contained only this:
```
Section "Device"
    Identifier    "Default Device"
    Option    "NoLogo"    "True"
EndSection
```I will try what you said anyway and report back.  Thanks.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-28
Okay, I followed the steps you laid out and they have not affected my resolution options at all.  Here is the new xorg.conf that was generated:

```
# nvidia-xconfig: X configuration file generated by nvidia-xconfig
# nvidia-xconfig:  version 280.13  (buildmeister@swio-display-x86-rhel47-03.nvidia.com)  Wed Jul 27 17:15:58 PDT 2011

Section "ServerLayout"
    Identifier     "Layout0"
    Screen      0  "Screen0"
    InputDevice    "Keyboard0" "CoreKeyboard"
    InputDevice    "Mouse0" "CorePointer"
EndSection

Section "Files"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Mouse0"
    Driver         "mouse"
    Option         "Protocol" "auto"
    Option         "Device" "/dev/psaux"
    Option         "Emulate3Buttons" "no"
    Option         "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
    # generated from default
    Identifier     "Keyboard0"
    Driver         "kbd"
EndSection

Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection

Section "Device"
    Identifier     "Device0"
    Driver         "nvidia"
    VendorName     "NVIDIA Corporation"
EndSection

Section "Screen"
    Identifier     "Screen0"
    Device         "Device0"
    Monitor        "Monitor0"
    DefaultDepth    24
    SubSection     "Display"
        Depth       24
    EndSubSection
EndSection

```And the xorg.0.log is over at pastebin: [http://pastebin.com/cU6NepK3](http://pastebin.com/cU6NepK3)

Thanks

---

### Post by MartyBuntu on 2012-03-28
Your video card must output a resolution that your TV can support. According to your manual, this isn't the case (over VGA).

Some Xorg trickery might work, but I'd doubt it.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-28
It looks like you are getting 1366x768 now. Is that right?

When you open 'Nvidia X Server Settings', are higher resolutions available?

Could you post the result of this command?
```
xrandr
```
Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-28
Hmm... I also have the option of going out through the S-video on the card.  I also have the adapters to go IN to the TV using the component cables.  When I had it working on Windows, I believe I was using S-Video -> Component.  I only switched because I wanted the component inputs on the display for something else.  Do you recommend I switch back, or is there more stuff to try first?

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-28
papibe -

> It looks like you are getting 1366x768 now. Is that right?
Yes, that's the one widescreen resolution I mentioned in my original post, which displays all screwy.  I've had it the whole time.  No higher resolutions are available in Nvidia X Server Settings.

```
$ xrandr
xrandr: Failed to get size of gamma for output default
Screen 0: minimum 320 x 240, current 1024 x 768, maximum 1360 x 768
default connected 1024x768+0+0 0mm x 0mm
   1024x768       50.0*    51.0     52.0  
   832x624        53.0  
   800x600        54.0     55.0     56.0     57.0  
   720x450        58.0  
   680x384        59.0     60.0  
   640x480        61.0     62.0     63.0     64.0     65.0  
   640x400        66.0     67.0  
   512x384        68.0     69.0  
   400x300        70.0  
   320x240        71.0     72.0  
   1360x768       73.0  
```

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-28
> **Neatoman said:**
> Hmm... I also have the option of going out through the S-video on the card.  
I would not recommend that.

S-Video has a maximum resolution of 1024x768.

I wouldn't recommend it. VGA has both higher quality and higher resolutions available.

Regards.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-28
At this point I wonder if the TV's VGA input support a higher resolution.

Do you have manuals or technical documentation that you can check? Note that even if it says that 1080i is supported, it is usually mean just by using an HDMI connection.

Another idea: do you have a simple VGA cable around to test the connection with it? May be something is missing in the conversion DVI -> VGA.

BTW, I also have and Nvidia card connected to a TV as a monitor. In order to get the full 1080p resolution I use a DVI to HDMI cable.

Just some thoughts.
Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-28
The manual for the display is available here: [ http://www.pioneerelectronics.com/PUSA/Home/Plasma/PDP-505HD]("http://www.pioneerelectronics.com/PUSA/Home/Plasma/PDP-505HD").  I hadn't noticed, but it does seem to say 1080i is only available using the component inputs

It's a pretty old model - predates HDMI.  I could never afford a TV this size if it wasn't a hand-me-down.

Complicating matters is the fact that the GeForce 8600GT only has two DVI outputs and the S-Video.  No VGA-to-VGA is available, and since the TV also has no DVI input, basically I'm using adapters no matter what I do.

Again, I know this is physically possible because I had it working on Windows.  It took me a massive time investment there too, but I eventually got it.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-28
One thing I have NOT yet tried is going DVI -> Component.  I have that capability as well.  I may try that next.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-28
Are you dual booting with Windows?

If so, there may be a way to get the details from the monitor into a file from Windows and then use it on Ubuntu.

Regards.

---

### Post by bcschmerker on 2012-03-28
Reviewing the [spec sheet for the Pioneer® PDP-505HD](http://www.pioneerelectronics.com/PUSA/Home/Plasma/PDP-505HD?tab=specifications), this display unit has VGA/XGA analog (DE-15 socket), RGB component input (presumably triple RCA jacks), and S-Video/Composite (mini-DIN).  DVI-I has provisions for driving either VGA/XGA or Component video via appropriate adapter cable/harnesses.

A search of Amazon.com presented [this DVI-A to triple RCA harness](http://www.amazon.com/DVI-I-RCA-Component-Cable-6ft/dp/B000Q6RL9Q), which is of 6'-0" (1.8 m) length, as an example.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-29
Am not dual booting, for which I have been kicking myself for two days.  Didn't have that level of foresight.  Or more accurately, I DID have that level of overconfidence.

I don't know where all you other guys are in the world, but it's bedtime where I am.  Thanks for all your help and I'll be back on to try some more tomorrow.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-29
Good morning!

So in the light of the new day I remembered that, once upon a time (and also on Windows) I was able to achieve a hi-res picture on this display going VGA to VGA using an older video card that only had VGA outputs.   That older card is no longer an option, but this means the display's VGA port does support higher resolutions.  So there's got to be a way to do this.  Can I modify xorg.conf to try and force the resolutions I want?    If so, how would I go about this?  My previous attempts not only didn't work, they didn't seem to do anything, so I obviously didn't fully understand the syntax or something.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-29
I just took a look at the Pioneer specification. It says it is a 720p TV. More exactly XGA 1280x768 (which is 16:10).

Have you tried instead of increasing the resolution, decrease it to 1280x768? That test would be interesting because the TV may expecting that resolution and may present it better than 1366x768.

If that doesn't work, sometime you have to play with the TV's remote and change a few settings like: screen -> full, screen -> fill, screen -> stretch, or screen -> just scan.

Just a few thoughts.
Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-29
I would like to try that, but again I think I need some education on editing xorg.conf.  I just added this modeline (acquired using[ this generator]("http://xtiming.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/xtiming.pl")) and I do not see the new resolution in Nvidia X Server.

```
Section "Monitor"
    Identifier     "Monitor0"
    VendorName     "Unknown"
    ModelName      "Unknown"
    HorizSync       28.0 - 33.0
    VertRefresh     43.0 - 72.0
    Modeline "1280x768@60" 79.75 1280 1312 1608 1640 768 783 791 807
    Option         "DPMS"
EndSection
```

Am I doing this wrong?

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-29
You never know until you try.

However modelines are usually in the 'Screen' section.

Regards.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-29
There is also this trick: you can request to the nvidia tools to create a xorg that include that mode:
```
 nvidia-xconfig --mode 1280x768
```
Note: that will overide your current xorg.conf so I would suggest backing it up [COLOR="Red"]**first**[/COLOR]:
```
sudo cp /etc/X11/xorg.conf /etc/X11/xorg.conf.version01
```
Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-29
See, that's just the kind of information people on the other threads I've been reading tend to assume I already know.  Thanks.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-29
Well I tried your last suggestion, papibe. While I can confirm that it generated the new xorg.conf, it had no effect on my available resolutions in either Nvidia X Server or the regular Display Settings section of Ubuntu.

I need to stop playing with this for the day.  Tomorrow I'll try some different setups with the input and outputs.  In the meantime if you have any more suggestions, I will thank you.

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-30
Hey Neatoman,  I wonder how your problem is going.

A few ideas:

Since the EDID information is contain in the TV, any other machine using a a pure VGA cable should be able to retrieve the information. If you have another computer around, or a friend with a laptop would be great to get that.

There are a couple of programs that can get that information in Windows. I believe DumpEDID can do it, and so a program called Phoenix EDID Designer. Take a look at this [thread]("http://ubuntuforums.org/showthread.php?t=1857772&highlight=phoenix") for some ideas.

Another thing: modelines may work, but since the 'virtual size' of the screen is read incorrectly, you may need a few tricks. When trying custom modelines, also try disabling the action of getting the EDID from the TV by adding this:
```
Option "UseEDID" "FALSE"
```
to either the Screen or Device section.

Tell us how things are progressing. 
Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-30
Thanks papibe, I will try your ideas over the weekend.  I haven't updated because I've made no progress.  I tried every cable/adapter configuration I have available with no luck.  I'm thinking of getting a DVI -> BNC adapter cable since the Pioneer's manual indicates BNC is the way to go for hi-def signals from a PC.  That's a last resort though, since I'm already swimming in hardware and I'm not made of money.

I actually discovered  Phoenix EDID Designer on my own earlier today and tried using it to create an EDID file from scratch.   I didn't really know what I was doing but I created one anyway and had NVIDIA X-Server read it.  All that did was trick X-Server into thinking I have two screens, neither of which had the resolutions I'm looking for.  I'm planning to go back and try that again later, but I hadn't thought of simply using it to retrieve the EDID from my TV.

Disabling the EDID sounds promising as well.  I will give them both a shot.  I'm a stay at home dad, so I alternately have tons of time and no time at all to work on this stuff. :)

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-30
Well I tried disabling the EDID and the result was that my available resolutions were cut down to 640x480 and 320x240.

It may be a step backwards, but at least I've finally gotten a result.

Since it's not reading EDID, shouldn't it be accepting whatever modes I put in xorg.conf?  What information is the system referencing that stops it from using the resolutions I defined?

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-03-30
Sadly even if the resolution is correct, if the modeline's timings are not supported by the monitor, it won't work.

Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-03-30
> **papibe said:**
> Sadly even if the resolution is correct, if the modeline's timings are not supported by the monitor, it won't work.

Regards.
Well of course, but I would expect if that were the case I wouldn't see anything at all, right?

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-04-04
Hey guys-

Been a few days.

Well I acquired a cable to go from DVI on the card to BNC-5 on the TV.  This should give me a range of resolutions, but it's only allowing 640x480 and 320x240

HEre is my Xorg.0.log from after booting with the new cable a few times:
[http://pastebin.com/TFbHpMax](http://pastebin.com/TFbHpMax)

Any thoughts?

---

### Post by papibe on 2012-04-04
Bad news again:
```
[    22.918] (WW) NVIDIA(GPU-0): Unable to read EDID for display device CRT-1
```
But...

I believe you are shooting for 1080i right now, aren't you?

I believe 'ATSC 1080i' is a more standard resolution, so 'hunting' for modelines should be easier.

I found a few examples [here]("http://www.epanorama.net/faq/vga2rgb/interfacing.html") (check the section ATSC 1080I). There are several 1080i modelines, using different freqs.

Hope that helps.
Regards.

---

### Post by Neatoman on 2012-04-04
1080i would be ideal, but 1280x768 is fine too since that's the physical limit of the monitor.  Not sure what the visible difference would be between a 1080i signal and a 720p signal anyway, but on the assumption there would be some quality distinction, 1080i is my first choice.

Thanks for the link.  I'll check it out.

---

