---
title: ".jpg not seen?"
date: 2012-03-04
forum: General Help
---

### Post by ken0069 on 2012-03-04
I just resized two pictures to upload to my website and when I changed the names on those files from .JPG to .jpg they DO NOT show up in the Pictures folder?  So the originals were still there and I tried to rename them to .jpg before the resizing but I get an error that the file is already present though I can't see it?

So what' gives with this?  And what can I change to be able to use files that are NOT caps.  

FYI, ALL the photos that up on my website are .jpg WITHOUT caps.  I do this to prevent errors because of cap issues when pics won't show up on the site and I don't want to change the way I do things.

Any help?

Thnanks,

Ken

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-03-04
use Nautilus .... what you may have done is added a space before the .

any file it sees beginning with a "."  gets hidden .....

files 

a.jpg 
b.jpg 

will show fine ....

but 

.jpg

will be invisible ..... till you choose  [COLOR=Red]**show hidden**[/COLOR] files in Nautilus - Dolphin or Thunar or another !!! ,,, file viewer document chooser ,,,,, the ones I mention are the ones I know of ....

---

### Post by ken0069 on 2012-03-05
Nope, not the case here.  Since this happened on a dual boot system I moved that folder to a Windows drive then booted Windows XP and those files were there, with NO space before or after the . ??

So I uploaded them from the Windows OS via FTP to my website and then booted Linux back up.  Once it booted I moved that folder back to Linux and guess what.  THEN I could see those .jpg files????

Would be nice for someone to explain why this is happening or at least tell me how to fix this problem???:confused:  Here I am trying to ween myself off Windows for stuff like this and this happens.  

Thanks,

Ken

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-03-06
Sounds as if the file settings were changed - moving them back and forth and refreshing
the file manager could have made them visible ....

Ok lets try to re-create the problem again ....

go through step by step .....

1 ..... which application were you using to create and edit the files with

2 .... what file manager are you using .... (check the about screen - or do a screen shot)
which directory and what type of format is the partition you are saving to

3 .... when doing [COLOR=Red]**ls -all**[/COLOR] from a terminal in that directory .... what are the file settings of the new files that you create that you cannot see .....


[COLOR=Blue]1 For an example .... Gimp, Inkscape, libre office etc ....

2 Dolphin Nautilus Thunar * ( if its the Linux Pictures dir then it should be a ext3 or ext4 type partition )

3 mine for an example ...[/COLOR] listing the contents of my Pictures directory from the terminal.

> 
keith@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:~/Pictures$ ls -all
total 48200
drwxr-xr-x  2 keith keith    4096 Feb 29 14:59 .
drwxr-xr-x 83 keith keith    4096 Mar  6 13:25 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith 1133339 May 20  2011 1280x1024.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 1180829 Feb 28 03:12 1280x1024-v2.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith 1476692 May 20  2011 1600x1200.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith 1686350 May 20  2011 1920x1080.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 1636523 Feb 27 11:31 1920x1200-3.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 2364010 Feb 27 11:41 1920x1200-cal.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith 1848601 May 20  2011 1920x1200.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith   77728 Nov 13  2007 Biker8.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 7396602 Feb 27 11:34 calendar.xcf
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith  369966 Oct 16  2008 cuckoo.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith  500536 Sep  1  2005 Demo_Tutorial.fxf
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith   70656 Feb 29 14:59 digikam4.db
-rw-------  1 keith keith      57 Feb 24 03:53 .directory
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith   21054 Oct 16  2008 displayimage.php.jpeg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4354198 Sep 27 02:40 DSCF7499.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4458003 Sep 27 02:40 DSCF7500.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 3826631 Sep 27 02:41 DSCF7501.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4127453 Sep 27 02:41 DSCF7502.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4032777 Sep 27 02:42 DSCF7503.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4328094 Sep 27 02:43 DSCF7504.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 3920748 Sep 27 02:43 DSCF7505.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith     678 Feb 28 04:38 Hello-world.c
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith      91 Feb 29 02:37 Hworldsmall.c
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith  115119 Nov 22  2008 sat.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith  354304 Feb 29 14:59 thumbnails-digikam.db
keith@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:~/Pictures$ 



---

### Post by ken0069 on 2012-03-06
Thanks for your reply.  

> **23dornot23d said:**
> Sounds as if the file settings were changed - moving them back and forth and refreshing
the file manager could have made them visible ....

Ok lets try to re-create the problem again ....

go through step by step .....

1 ..... which application were you using to create and edit the files with

I took the pics with an Olympus digital camera then connected the cable to the camera and opened up the the memory card and cut and pasted the two pictures into the "Pictures/transmission" folder I created to put them in in my home directory.  

Then I right clicked on each picture and selected open with Gimp.  In Gimp I edited the pic size down to 800x600 then saved it with a new name like transmission1.jpg into the same folder as the original.  Same process with the second one only named it transmission2.jpg.  

Closed out Gimp then went to that folder and the originals were there but the edited ones were not.  Closed it out to the desktop then reopened but they still weren't there.  So, I tried to rename the first unmodified pic to transmission1.jpg but couldn't save it as an error came up stating that the file already existed?  This is when I cut and pasted the entire folder over into the Windows C drive.  

> 2 .... what file manager are you using .... (check the about screen - or do a screen shot) which directory and what type of format is the partition you are saving toThink I covered most of this in the previous paragraphs.  

As to file manager?  Nothing special, just go to "Places" then "Pictures" then to "transmission"?  Don't know what else to tell ya on this?

> 3 .... when doing ls -all from a terminal in that directory .... what are the file settings of the new files that you create that you cannot see .....Not sure how to do what you want here??  I'm not much of a command line guy.  Can you be more specific?

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-03-07
Thank you for the information - steps taken to do the edit ....

1.....  Connect the Olympus via a cable .....

2 ....  Use Gimp to read in the file and save it back as the same filename ....

3 ...... Edit the same file to make a smaller image 800 x 600  ..... and then re-saving back the same file

( this part is the part I will cover as I believe we should write the file out to the new filename here )

4 ...... Places then Pictures .... is used to pick the files to work on them 

( possibly using Nautilus - if its a Gnome Desktop or UNITY  ) 

5 ...... Renaming them ...... this is still using the same file .... and altering the name using rename,

Not sure why you drop to the Desktop to rename them here and not do this in GIMP as Save As ..... 
{  You stated they were JPG instead of jpg ] ..... 
Gimp will let you save them as a new image with the name that you want and a small .jpg extenstion too  - Using the - Save As option - to me this would be better ,,,,, and quicker too .....   ) 

_______________________________________________________________________________

So .....

I do a similar routine .... ( theres no problem with how you are doing it .... but it could be shortened )

1 .... I use the slot in my laptop for the SD card and access photos that way ( faster for me )
and it does not drain the battery down on the camera doing it this way - just drag and drop DCIM
folder into a folder on the Desktop.

2 .... GIMP .... just select the file from the DCIM folder on the Desktop

**[COLOR=Red]Open File - in Gimp[/COLOR]** and then resize the pictures needed and as long as you 

then use [COLOR=Red]**Save As**[/COLOR] onto the hard drive a fresh copy is made ( possibly avoiding file attribute problems )


So all I can advise is to change the method you use ...... 
( if you still get the same problem - then - it may be something to do with how the file attributes are being
saved on these files )

But try using ....
Gimp ..... Save As - routine ..... this will put the new files on the hard drive into a Linux Directory ....
with the correct attributes. 

If you do not use the terminal much there is no problem,
But as in my example on the post above .... it shows more information about the files ....

[COLOR=Blue]My thoughts are that when you alter the existing file and rewrite it possibly to a windows (fat32) 
directory this may be where it messed up ....  as only fat32 has the hidden attribute .....

but doing it a different way may get rid of this possibility of the file going invisible / hidden ..... 

This could be caused by a hidden attribute being set ...... but why it should do it - not sure yet ...
Thoughts are towards the method used - altering the same file - rewriting same file possibly on a fat32 ... file system - then renaming the extension ...

So advice is to alter the method used to write the file out .... using Gimp Save As .....

There are other methods too for file organization of photos and resizing ....  
may be a alternative here that is better ...... all available in the software center and repositories ...

(  [_**Shotwell**_]("http://yorba.org/shotwell/") another [_**Digikam**_]("http://www.digikam.org/drupal/node/325") .... also [_**gthumb **_]("http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GThumb"). ) 

[/COLOR]

---

### Post by kevdog on 2012-03-07
Slightly off topic, however I often have the same need to resize pictures taken from my camera prior to emailing them or posting them.  I got tired of opening up a photo editor exclusively for resizing purposes -- very tedious and if you have a lot of pictures this process can be time consuming.

I eventually just made a script that would do this for me.  I would enter a directory name where the photos were and the script would resize these files via the convert command that imagemagick offers (this is a command line graphics utility package that is available for download via synaptic/apt-get).  If you want I can post the script.

---

### Post by Cpierce on 2012-03-07
Are you just adding the .jpg to the end of the name when you save it in gimp, or are you selecting the jpeg extension and letting gimp truly save it as a jpg file ?

Hit "save as" and then go down and hit "select file type" at the bottom, then scroll to jpeg and select it. It should add the ".jpg" to the end of the file name.

---

### Post by ken0069 on 2012-03-07
Ok, looks like I'm having problems explaining how this problem came about so let's start from the beginning.
 

 This system is Ubuntu 10.10 with Gnome Desktop as I won't have Unity if it came on a gold platter.  Having said that, this is also a multi-boot system with Windows and Ubuntu in the same box but on different hard drives.   
 

 So I took two digital pictures of a transmission case that I wanted to post on my racing forum.  I don't like the Linux photo handling program so I immediately close that out and go to >Places >125MB  drive (which is the camera memory card) >then find the two pictures on that camera drive.  Then I >cut and >paste those pictures into a folder I had already created called >Transmission located in the Pictures directory.
 

 Those pictures had a name that was actually a number something like this >103328.JPG  I right clicked on the photo and open it with Gimp.  I Edit the image then saved as >transmission1.jpg into that Transmission folder.  Opened the second picture and did the same thing only named it transmission2.jpg and saved it also into that Transmission folder I had created.   
 

 Closed out Gimp and looked in that Transmission folder and the two edited pictures WERE NOT THERE.  Closed out that folder all the way back to the desktop thinking that they might show up when I reopened that folder but they still did not show up.   
 

 Ok so I figured I'd try again but rename the original pics BEFORE I edited them and that was when I found out they were actually IN that folder but I couldn't see them as the system wouldn't let me change the name on the unedited picture to what the one I already edited was.  So then I knew those pictures were in that folder and I wondered how I could get to them as I still couldn't see them there.
 

 Then I cut and pasted that Transmission folder into the Windows C directory and then shut down Ubuntu and booted up Windows and those Edited pictures showed up in Windows Explorer then?   
 

 So I opened up Filezilla in Windows and uploaded those two pictures to my website.
 

 Then I shut down Windows and then booted up Ubuntu and cut and pasted that Transmission folder back into the >Pictures folder in Ubuntu and those previously unseen pictures were visible with the file names that I had originally assigned to them when I edited them along with the original unedited pictures??
 

 Is this plain enough so that everyone understands what I was doing when this happened?
 

 Thanks,
 

 Ken

---

### Post by 23dornot23d on 2012-03-08
Ok 

You are using Save As in Gimp ....

Then that may point towards a problem then with Gimp - Click Link as more info here too >>> [[COLOR=Blue]_**Save As option**_[/COLOR]]("http://docs.gimp.org/en/gimp-file-save-as.html")
on your computer.

Check the filter too .... set it to show all files ..... same with Nautilus ....

[IMG]http://img822.imageshack.us/img822/6992/zgimpselection2.jpg[/IMG]


If that is not the problem then reinstall Gimp ..... to ensure that that it is upto-date and fully installed as the problem is you are not seeing it in your listings ....

Both in Nautilus and in Gimp .....

Then there may be a chance that it is filtered out ....

______________________________________________

As two things that you have said makes me believe the file is there and it was created 

1 ..... It knows the file exists in that directory - as it will not let you write another with
the same name in that directory .....

2 ..... Moving it to windows and back again - makes it visible 

( This shows that the image has been created and saved ok using GIMP
 as windows cannot repair a file - simply by moving it back and forth between one folder and another )

Do as I said earlier if you could please goto ..... System >>> Terminal
(or press Alt + Ctrl + t)

After you open a Terminal up

type in one command at a time ..... 
( the first one - changes directory into Pictures - the next lists all files in that directory )

[B]cd Pictures

ls -a[/B]ll

> 

Here is the example of me doing it on my system .... 
( do the same on yours and post back the results please - do it when you
have created some more invisible files - by using the method you used earlier )
I want to see if the system sees them ......

keith@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:~$ [COLOR=Blue]**cd Pictures**[/COLOR]
keith@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:~/Pictures$ [COLOR=Blue]**ls -all**[/COLOR]
total 48200
drwxr-xr-x  2 keith keith    4096 Mar  8 05:54 .
drwxr-xr-x 83 keith keith    4096 Mar  8 03:27 ..
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith 1133339 May 20  2011 1280x1024.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 1180829 Feb 28 03:12 1280x1024-v2.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith 1476692 May 20  2011 1600x1200.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith 1686350 May 20  2011 1920x1080.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 1636523 Feb 27 11:31 1920x1200-3.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 2364010 Feb 27 11:41 1920x1200-cal.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith 1848601 May 20  2011 1920x1200.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith   77728 Nov 13  2007 Biker8.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 7396602 Feb 27 11:34 calendar.xcf
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith  369966 Oct 16  2008 cuckoo.jpg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith  500536 Sep  1  2005 Demo_Tutorial.fxf
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith   70656 Feb 29 14:59 digikam4.db
-rw-------  1 keith keith      89 Mar  8 05:54 .directory
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith   21054 Oct 16  2008 displayimage.php.jpeg
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4354198 Sep 27 02:40 DSCF7499.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4458003 Sep 27 02:40 DSCF7500.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 3826631 Sep 27 02:41 DSCF7501.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4127453 Sep 27 02:41 DSCF7502.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4032777 Sep 27 02:42 DSCF7503.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 4328094 Sep 27 02:43 DSCF7504.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith 3920748 Sep 27 02:43 DSCF7505.JPG
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith     678 Feb 28 04:38 Hello-world.c
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith      91 Feb 29 02:37 Hworldsmall.c
-rw-rw-r--  1 keith keith  115119 Nov 22  2008 sat.jpg
-rw-r--r--  1 keith keith  354304 Feb 29 14:59 thumbnails-digikam.db
keith@keith-Aspire-7730ZG:~/Pictures$ 

if you can - do a screen shot of what you see on your screen when they do not
show up ....... so we can see the filter box ..... as I highlighted in red on my
screen shot earlier please ....

I use Dolphin ..... this is what I see and all the details about each 
picture appear in the bottom right - which may be more useful too .... 
as it gives detailed information on each one.

( I have 40,000 photos plus - and use LINUX only for photography - so if there is a problem - it should not be something
that cannot be fixed with either a upgrade or possibly a change in the method used - best I can say as I cannot reproduce
hidden files .... )

[IMG]http://img35.imageshack.us/img35/1226/zgimpdolphin.jpg[/IMG]

---

### Post by ken0069 on 2012-03-09
OK so I've just spent about an hour on three different Ubuntu computers this morning trying to duplicate this problem but thus far it hasn't happened???  I'm on Linux Mint 11 now and I couldn't get it to do this either as the .jpg files I've created show up along with the .JPG originals on all systems tested??  

This leaves me with the proverbial "egg on my face" and no explanation as to why this happens, and BTW, it has happened before a few months back but then I didn't move folders etc to see what happened to those pics.  I just booted Windows and did what I had to do.  So without being able to duplicate the problem then there's no way to know if anything I do fixes it?  

Ennywho, I guess I'll just stumble along until it shows up again and try to figure it out then. 

Special thanks to those that tried to help me solve this problem.  I really appreciate your time and effort and I'll leave this thread open so I can bring it back up if I see this again in the future.

Ken

---

